RECIPES COLLECTED by Lady HARRIET St. CLAIR (Late Countess MUNSTER) 15 th Edition Edited by HELEN EDDEN, M.C.A. (With Sections on CASSEROLE and PAPER BAG COOKERY) NET LONDON: JOHN HOGG 13 PATERNOSTER ROW22101734520Med K10482Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28057557DAINTY DISHES RECIPES COLLECTED by Lady HARRIET St. CLAIR (Late Countess MUNSTER) FIFTEENTH EDITION Edited by HELEN EDDEN, M.C.A. (With Sections on CASSEROLE and PAPER-BAG COOKERY) LONDON: JOHN HOGG 13 PATERNOSTER ROW /WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Cali No. QlTCONTENTS PACK Publisher’s Note • V Preface to Sixth Edition vi Preface to First Edition • vii Foods and their Seasons—January to December ix Soups • • • • • 11 Sauces—Cold Sauces . 19 Cold Sauces to keep . 23 Hot Sauces • 24 Fish Sauce3 • 31 Fish .... • 34 Meat, Poultry, Game . • 45 Vegetables, Salads, etc. • 67 Eggs, Cheese, Entremets, etc. • 83 Puddings, Jellies, Pastry, etc. . 90 Pudding Sauces . • 105 Pastry • 106 Baking—Bread, Biscuits, Cakes, etc. • 117 Pickling and Preserving • 125 Different methods of making Marmalade 128 Cookery for the Sick and Poor , 134 Paper-Bag Cookery a 147 Casserole Cookery # 148 Savouries .... , 152 Sundries .... • 158 Index .... • • 161PUBLISHER’S NOTE TO TWELFTH EDITION, There is here given for the first time a Shilling Edition of the famous Cookery Book by the late Countess Munster, ‘ Dainty Dishes,’ which has run through eleven editions. The larger edition (3s. 6d.) retains some special features and additional receipts of value. But what it has here been possible to give, viz. : upwards of Eight Hundred Receipts for Soups, Sauces, Fish, Meat, Poultry, Game, Vegetables, Salads, Eggs, Cheese, Entremets, Puddings, Jellies, Pastry, Baking of Bread, Biscuits and Cakes, Pickling and Preserving, Cookery for the Sick and Poor, etc., will, it is hoped, speedily secure for the work a position as one of the favourite Shilling Cookery-Books. Of the excellence of the Receipts collected by Lady Harriet St. Clair (late Countess Munster) it may suffice to quote from two Press notices. The British Mail said : ‘ A design so excellent and an accomplishment so complete may well recommend this volume to the consideration of the ladies of this kingdom. If economy can be combined with an agreeable and nutritious diet, by all means let the fact be well known.’ And the Glasgow Herald certified : ‘ It is something to say, in this age of many cookery-books, that the receipts given are not farciful, but practical. They can really be cooked, a recommendation that cannot be given to many of our cookery-books.’ Should it be desired to simplify or to cheapen the Reoipes, it is generally possible to vary or to omit some of the ingredients, according to judgment. JOHN HOGG. London, September, 1896.PREFACES ri PREFACE TO SIXTH EDITION. It has naturally been a great gratification to the compiler of Dainty Dishes to find, from the number of editions already issued, that it has been so well received by the public, and it gives her reason to hope that the wish she expressed at the end of her Preface to the First Edition, and which, indeed, was her only object in publishing the volume, has been in some measure fulfilled; and however undeserved she has felt the many favourable criticisms she has read upon her perfectly unpre- tending work, they have not the less given her sincere pleasure, and they encourage her now to offer a small Appendix of receipts she has collected since her arrival in Germany. One or two writers have taken exception to the title Dainty Dishes, contending that what was inexpensive, or equal to the means of the poor, could not rightly be called ‘ dainty.’ From this opinion she must, how- ever, beg humbly to differ. In her idea true daintiness consists in exquisite cleanliness and neatness in the preparation of whatever food it may be, and that with this and a little good taste and ingenuity, out of the most simple and least costly materials, a * dainty dish ’ may be prepared and set before the peasant as well as before the king, whom the ancient nursery rhyme mentions as having had four-and-twenty blackbirds baked in a pie, and ‘ when the pie was opened the birds began to sing ’ —which must have been a ‘ dainty dish,’ though rather disappointing to the king if he happened to be hungry. It is almost impossible that one cookery-book should contain receipts for dishes suited to every palate or every nation. There is an old proverb which says, not un- truly, that 1 what is one man’s meat is another man’s poison.’ No doubt climate has a great influence on the prevailing taste in cookery. In the more northern latitudes, blubber, fat, tallow, oil, and such sub- stances, constitute what the native considers a * dainty dish,’ while in the southern, milk, meal, fruit and vegetables, are almost the only articles of food. For this there is probably a chemical explanation, and that nature indicates what is most likely to support the body in healthy vigour, and what materials will supply those with which the air is deficient, to effect that purpose. A good cook should be a cosmopolitan—able to feed you with the plain wholesome roasts, broils, and boils an Englishman enjoys ; tickle your palate with ragouts and entrees like a Frenchman; be economical like the Swiss and the Germans, and simple like the Scotch andPREFACES vii Italians. A cookery-book which teaches you how to eat best at the least possible cost is an invaluable work, and may successfully contend with the works of ancient and modern philosophers ; nay, it may even be regarded as both philanthropical and political. How many things may be arranged over a good dinner 1 How much more pleasantly and readily are all affairs settled. Speculations, alliances, treaties, love, friendship—all progress smoother and with quite another feeling to what they would before, or might after, a bad dinner. Your temper is quite different, and you shake hands willingly with a man you would previously have knocked down with pleasure. Depend upon it, a good dinner is a grand thing, and nothing important in politics or love should be discussed unless your private 1 Minister of the Interior ’ is well satisfied. Fewer wars and quarrels would be the result if this were the case ; but you must take care the contented ‘ interior ’ is not on one side, if there is truth in the old Scotch proverb, ‘ It’s ill talking between the fu’ man and the fasting.’ Talk of philanthropy to a famished man, and he will be deaf to your prayers ; but try him after a good dinner, and he will be capable of the most generous actions; even the most avaricious man, after he has been well fed—always supposing he has not had to pay for it—may be persuaded to open his purse for the benefit of his fellow-beings. A life made up of cares and troubles becomes more tolerable, if not even pleasant, under the softening influence of good meat and drink; for the time are forgotten the delusions of ambition, betrayed friendships, unfaithful love. A good cookery-book should thus contain a palliative for every evil, physical and moral. The first of physical evils is hunger, and it should teach you not only to satisfy, but to gratify it—how to prepare a sauce that will make the worst piece of cold meat palatable, or out of the most homely, as well as the most expensive, materials, cook a dish that will refresh the wearied body, which immediately reacts on the weary spirit, and gives it fresh courage to face anew the world and all its troubles. The compiler is not presumptuous enough to believe that her collec- tion of receipts is capable of conferring so great a boon upon humanity; she only hopes that it may in some measure help towards it. Dernebueg, November nth, 1866. PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION. It may seem superfluous, if not presumptuous, to offer to the public a book on Cookery, when there are already so many extant, and of which several are the works of real great ‘ Artists but this little volume presents itself without any pretensions, as being merely a collection of receipts, many of which the Compiler believes to be original, and all of which she knows to be good. And if the jaded appetite of one sick person is stimulated, or one healthy appetite gratified, her object willPBEFACE8 viii be attained, and any trouble she may have had in the compilation of the book amply rewarded. It is often very difficult to prevail upon cooks to follow the directions of a receipt; they think they know as well, or better, and if they condescend to employ the ingredients, pay no attention to the instructions for their proportion or admixture, or the time they may take in cooking, in order to bring them to the right point, as the French say, ‘ cuit au point,’ the result is probably a nasty mess, in no way resembling what was originally intended. For this it is difficult to find a remedy; but there is one when practicable—i.e., make it yourself; and the writer hopes that the directions given are sufficiently explicit to enable the veriest tyro to do this without fear of failure, and consequent disappointment. A near relation of the Com- piler’s, and one who thoroughly understood and enjoyed good living, and from whom she acquired many receipts and much culinary lore, once said to her: ‘ Original English, or what is called plain cooking, is the worst, and the most ignorant, and the most extravagant in the known world !’ There is no doubt considerable truth in this ; but she is not sure that the word plain should not be omitted, and questions much if there is, or ever was, original English cookery. The observa- tion would then resolve itself into—‘ English cookery is the worst,’ etc., etc.; and this she thinks few will be inclined to dispute. What can be more unpalatable than the horrible attempts at entrees, dignified with some high-sounding French name, made by the general ran of English cooks? the sodden pieces of meat, soaking in a mess of flour and butter, commonly called roux, which, with the addition of a little melted glaze, forms the English cook’s universal idea of a sauce, and which they liberally and indiscriminately bestow on fish, flesh and fowl—proving, indeed, most painfully, how very little there is in a name ; a theory, by the way, which the writer has often felt inclined to dispute. Now, by what is called plain cooking, per se, she understands Roasting, Broiling, Baking and Boiling; and if these are well done, nobody can justly complain of having a bad dinner. How much rather would not anyone prefer a well-broiled mutton-chop—brown, tender, and succulent—tempting you, by its appearance, to eat, even as much as that of the other deterred you from the attempt I So with a joint of well-roasted beef, or mutton, and well-boiled or baked potatoes ; if not appetising, they at least satisfy your hunger without nauseating, and you cannot say you have dined badly, though your dinner has not been very recherche. But there are occasions when even a good appetite palls, upon the too frequent repetition of such heavy viands, and when that of the delicate invalid will turn with loathing from such solid, though wholesome, food. It is then, the writer hopes, reference will be made to this little volume of ‘ Dainty Dishes,’ and that the good appetite may be gratified, and the delicate one renovated. Derneburg, April 10, 1866.FOODS AND THE IE SEASONS. JANUARY. 'Meats.—Beef, houselamb, mutton, pork, veal. Of game, hares and rabbits, doe venison. Fish.—Brill, carp, cod, crabs, crayfish, eels, flounders, gurnets, John-Dory, haddocks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, oysters, pike, plaice, prawns, perch, skate, smelts, sturgeon, soles, sprats, tench, thornback, turbot, whitings. Poultry and Game.—Capons, chickens, duck, goose, pheasants, partridges, pigeons, plover, pullets, snipes, turkey, teal, woodcock, widgeon. Vegetables.—Beetroot, brocoli, cabbage, carrots, celery, cresses, endive, garlic, lettuces, onions, parsnips, potatoes, salsify, scorzonera, turnips, savoys, sprouts, spinach, shalots. Mushrooms. Fruits.—Apples, pears, medlars, oranges, nuts, grapes, chestnuts, walnuts, dried fruits. FEBRUARY. Meats.—Beef, houselamb, mutton, pork, veal. Fish.—As in January, excepting cod. Poultry.—In addition to January, ducklings, guinea-fowls. Game.—As in January, also ptarmigan and wild duck. Vegetables.—As in January, also kidney beans, leeks, savoys, sea-kale. Fruits.—As in January, also forced strawberries. MARCH. Meats.—As in February. Fish.—As in February, also conger-eels and gudgeon. Poultry.—As in February. Game.—Ptarmigan only. Vegetables.—Artichokes, rhubarb, turnip-tops, otherwise as in February. Fruits.—As in February. APRIL. Meats.—Beef, mutton, lamb, pork, and veal. Fish.—Carp, chub, crab, crayfish, gudgeon, herring, lobster, mackerel, mullet, salmon, skate, soles, tench, turbot. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, leverets, pigeons, pullets, rabbits. Vegetables.—Artichokes, asparagus, beet, broccoli, burnet, carrots, celery, endive, lettuces, radishes, spinach, salads, sea-kale. Fruits.—Scarce in this month—depend on last year’s supply. MAY. Meats.—As in April, except pork. Fish.—As in April, also whitebait. Poultry and Game.—As in April. Vegetables.—As in April, with early potatoes, peas, French beans, early cabbages and cauliflowers. Fruits.—Gooseberries and strawberries. ,, , . JUNE. xVIeats. As in May, with the addition of venison. II8H.—Carp conger-eel, crabs, crayfish, dabs, dace, eels, gudgeon, lobsters, mackerel, mullets (red), plaice, prawns, salmon, sea-bream, shad, soles, tench, trout, turbot, whitebait. Poultry and Game.—As in April, with green geese, plovers, turkey poults, wheatears, wood-pigeons. Vegetables.—Artichokes, asparagus, beans, and vegetable marrows—other- wise as m April.X FOODS AND THEIR SEASONS Fruits.—Cherries, currants, gooseberries, green apricots, melons, straw- berries, forced grapes, nectarines, peacheB, pines. JULY. Meats.—As in May, with buck venison. Fish.—Carp, crab, crayfish, dace, eels, gudgeons, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, plaice, salmon, sole, trout, turbot, whitebait. Poultry and Game.—As in May and June. Vegetables.—As in June. Fruits.—As in June, with raspberries, plums, and damsons. AUGUST. Meats.—As in July, without venison. Poultry and Game.—As in July, with wild duck, and, after the 12th, grouse. Fish.—As in July. Mackerel is not good in August. Vegetables.—As in July. Fruits.—As in July, with figs, mulberries, and filberts. SEPTEMBER. Meats.—As in July, with pork, which comes into season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crayfish, conger-eels, John - Dory, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, mullet, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, skate, soles, sturgeon, trout, turbot, thornback. Poultry and Game.—As in August, with partridges and wheatears. Vegetables.—As in August. Fruits.—As in August, with hazel-nuts, blackberries, greengages, and quinces. OCTOBER. Meats.—As in September, with venison. Fish.—Barbel, brill, cockles, crayfish, gray mullet, the rest as in September. Poultry and Game.—All kinds of fowls, with geese, pheasants, partridges, larks, hares, black-cocks, plovers, quails, teals, and widgeon. Vegetables.—As in September, ivith horse-radish and tomatoes. Fruits.—Almonds, apples, bullaces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, medlars, nuts, peaches, pears, plums, quinces, and walnuts. NOVEMBER. Meats.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, houselamb, and doe venison. Fish.—As in October. Poultry and Game.—As in October. Vegetables.—As in October, with Brussels sprouts, red cabbages, haricots, winter spinach, truffles. Fruits.—As in October, with chestnuts. DECEMBER. Meats.—As in November. Fish.—Turbot, gurnet, soles, sturgeon, carp, gudgeon, eels, codlings, dories, and shellfish. Poultry and Game.—Geese, turkeys, pullets, pigeons, capons, fowls, rabbits, hares, snipes, woodcocks, larks, pheasant, sea-fowl, guinea-fowl, wild duck, teal, widgeon, grouse, and dun-birds. Vegetables and Fruits.—As in November. This table is prepared from an examination of a number of authorities, so da to afford in the smallest space an easy view of seasonable foods. Of course the numerous tinned importations are omitted, being always to be had.Soups. Soups, properly so called, are made from stock, which may be made beforehand ; and this, by the addition of different vegetables, or very often the same merely cut in another shape, or the flavour varied by herbs, becomes Soupe a la Julienne, Prinianibre, Brunoise, etc., etc. For the making of stock, and its subsequent metamorphosis into these various soups, there are so many directions given in divers excellent French cookery-books that it would be superfluous to introduce them here: the following receipts would be therefore more correctly termed Broths, as they require to be fresh-made, and have each an individual character of their own. 1. Pot au Feu.—Put in a sauce- pan six lb. of beef (bones included) cut into two or three pieces ; three- quarters of a lb. of mixed vege- tables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, white cabbage, and celery with its leaves left on, all cut in good-sized pieces; three small spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, and one of sugar; add eight pints of water ; let it boil gently three hours; remove the fat; add crusts of roll or slices of bread, either previously toasted or plain, and serve. 2. Scotch Mutton or Barley Broth.—Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well; let it simmer for an hour and a half, then take the best end of the mutton, cut it in cutlets, trim off some of the fat, and add as many to the soup as you think proper; skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour after ; then add four or five carrots, the same number of tur- nips, three onions, and some celery, all cut, but not too small; four large spoonfuls of barley, previously washed in cold water. The broth should stew altogether three hours twenty minutes; before serving, some chopped parsley may be added. 3. Sir Robert Preston’s Mutton Broth.—Two pounds and a half of mutton boiled in two pints of water, with, say, three spoonfuls barley, very slowly for three on four hours; then strain it off and remove the fat; add three turnips, and carrots, and two leeks or onions, cut very fine; put them, with three mutton chops, into the broth, and boil till tender; when, nearly done, add some greens, pre- viously blanched and well drained; boil for about ten minutes more,, season with salt, and serve. The vegetables should appear quite thick in the broth and be cut very small. 4. Sheep’s Head Broth.—Take a large breakfast cupful of barley, a sheep’s head and trotters pre- viously prepared, and, if the brothiDAINTY DISHES 12 should be wanted stronger, a neck of mutton; put them into a pot with two quarts of cold water; as soon as it comes to the boil be careful to skim it well. Cut down some carrots and turnips small, a little parsley and two onions; before you add the roots skim it again. Boil slowly till the head is quite tender; take the pot off the fire and stand it near, covered closely, for a quarter of an hour before serving. The head and trotters should be served separately, with whole carrots and turnips. To Prepare the Head and Trotters. — They should be well singed, which is best dono at the blacksmith’s. Split the head down the middle of the skull; take out the brains, and rub the head all over with them ; lay the head and trotters to soak in water all night; scrape and wash well before using. N.B.—Sheep’s head is excellent eaten cold. 5. Hotch Potch.—Take a neck or breast of mutton; cut it into small square pieces, put them into a pot with two quarts of cold water; when it boils skim it well, and add the vegetables and a little salt and pepper; carrots, turnips, celery, young onions, and a quart of shelled peas (they should not be very young); let them boil very slowly till done. Half an hour before serving add a pint of young green peas. Almost any vegetables that are in season may be added to hotch potch with improvement, and it may be made with lamb instead of mutton. It cannot be boiled too slowly; eight hours is not too much. 6. Clear or English Mutton Broth.—Take a neck of mutton; •cut off it as many chops as you wish to serve in the broth ; put the remainder into a pan with carrots and. turnips, stir it to prevent its getting thick, and skim carefully; let it boil four hours, then strain it through a sieve, and add the cut- lets and carrots and turnips cut into dice or any shape you fancy, and boil till they are tender; season with pepper and salt. A little raw parsley chopped very fine may be added just before serving. 7. Beef Broth, or Broth k la Mode.—Put into a soup-pot twelve lb. of the sticking piece of beef from a young ox, with the kernels and sweetbreads; pour on suffi- cient cold water to cover the meat; set the pot over a quick fire, and carefully attend to the scum rising, so that it may all be removed before it can boil into the broth. After the first scum is removed, immediately throw in some cold water, which will cause more to rise. When this is removed, place the pot by the side of a stove to boil slowly for four hours; then strain the broth through a napkin, which should be kept for the pur- pose ; take care of the kernels and sweetbreads, which you return to the broth, together with four carrots and turnips, a head of celery and two onions; these should be cut in good-sized pieces with a round cutter. Continue boiling the broth till the vegetables are quite tender; season and serve. Be careful to remove any fat that may rise in the second boiling. 8. Cock - a - Leekie. — Truss a cock as for boiling; put it into a stew-pan with a piece of lean beef, about four lb.; two dozen of leeks cut in pieces about an inch long, rejecting the coarser green part; a little pepper and salt, and five13 SOUPS quarts of water. Cover the stew- pan up closely and allow its con- tents to stew slowly four hours ; then place the cock in a tureen; remove the beef, and pour the soup and leeks over it, and serve. 9. Another Cock-a-Leekie.— Put four lb. of beef and an old fowl in a gallon of water, and when it boils throw in a good quantity of sliced leeks (as many as four dozen) with plenty of the tender green part left on, a teaspoonful of ground pepper, and half a one of salt. Let all b oil for four hours, then put in half a lb. of prunes, and let it boil an hour longer; take out the meat and fowl; cut off some of the best parts of the white meat from the breast of the fowl, and add it to the soup; the prunes should be left in. The leeks are improved by being soaked two hours in cold water before they are used. This is an excellent receipt. 10. Friar’s Chicken, Li6 or thick.—Take a knuckle of veal, two carrots, two turnips, two or three onions, and a few sweet herbs ; boil all these together to a good stock and strain it. Have ready a pair of chickens boiled tender and cut in pieces, a quart of cream and six yolks of eggs beaten together; add to these the stock only, as above, and heat them up together, and send it to table. Some like a little minced parsley added just before serving. 11. Friar’s Chicken, clear.— Take two or three chickens cut in quarters, as for a fricassee, and two lb. of lean beef; put them in four quarts of boiling water; when nearly done enough, which will be in about two hours, add some finely-minced parsley. not leave it on the fire more than ten minutes after this ; the minute before serving stir in quickly two eggs previously well beaten to- gether. Attention should be paid to skimming, and it is more deli- cate if the skins of the chickens are removed. 12. Knuckle of Veal and Rico Soup.—To a knuckle of veal well scalded add three quarts of veal stock, three ounces of rice, a blade of mace, and a sprig of thyme; when it has boiled two hours and a half put into it one onion and two heads of celery cut fine ; let it boil half an hour longer; season with salt, take out the large bones, and serve. A fowl and rice may be done in the same way, but will not take so long. 13. Potato Soup.—Grate off the skin of as many potatoes as will make the quantity of soup required, and which will partly depend upon their size, they should be of a mealy kind; wash them well in tepid water, add them to your stock previously prepared from roast beef bones ; four or five onions, and some salt and pepper. Let it simmer very slowly till the potatoes are quite dissolved. 14. Another Potato Soup.— Cut a breast of mutton into small square pieces ; put it on to boil with some good stock; let it stew gently, skimming it meanwhile carefully, for two hours ; then add two dozen of potatoes peeled and washed (they should not be large ones), and two dozen button onions, or five large ones sliced. Season with salt and pepper, and stew slowly till the potatoes are nearly dissolved. 15. Hare Soup should be madeDAINTY DISHES with a perfectly fresh hare. When skinned, take care to save all the blood. If a larger quantity of soup is required, or it is wished very strong, take two fresh hares, but on no account use any other meat. Cut the hare in pieces, and put into a dish with the quantity of water required for your soup. Let it stand an hour ; then add the blood of the hare ; strain it through a sieve into the soup-pot, and put all on the fire; stir it constantly till it boils, to prevent its curdling, and skim it a little ; then put in a carrot, a piece of celery, two whole onions, and an ounce of black pepper tied up in a bit of muslin; a bunch of herbs, salt, and a little chopped onion. Boil it slow for three hours; take it off an hour before dinner; strain it through a sieve ; take out the onions, carrot, pepper, etc., and put in some of the best pieces of the hare which you had previously kept back, cut as for jugged hare ; return it to the saucepan, and let it boil for about an hour. Take a tablespoon- ful of ground rice, and, shortly before serving, stir it well into the soup; continue stirring till it is removed from the fire. 16. Sportsman’s Broth.—Take a grouse, a blackcock, a ptarmigan, a woodcock, and any other game you have: cut them in small joints, reserving some of the best pieces; put them into a pot with water and plenty of vegetables whole. Let it stew very slowly four or five hours; then take the best pieces, season them and toss them into a little flour; brown them over a very quick fire, and add them to the sti’ained stock, with two dozen very small onions, two heads of celery sliced, and half a white cabbage shred fine; to stew slowly till tender. Half an hour before serving, add six potatoes cut in slices. This is excellent. 17. Moorfowl Soup.—Remove the backs of six moorfowl; cut the best parts of the legs, wings, and breast from four of the birds; if you have any pieces of pheasant or partridge, you can add them. Stew them till quite tender, then add about three pints of veal stock, and set it on to boil very slowly for one hour. Strain it through a tammy, and skim the fat off as clean as possible ; remove all but the best pieces of moorfowl; give one boil more, and skim it again ; add a small lump of sugar and a glass of white wine. 18. Mulligatawny. — Take a good veal stock, flavoured with carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a little white pepper; strain it through a fine sieve; be particular in removing the scum when it first boils up. Then take two chickens, or the best part of three rabbits ; put them into a stew-pan with a little butter ; set it over a slow fire to stew till they become tender; take them out and wash them clean in warm water. In another stew-pan put a little butter and flour; stir it over a slow fire for five minutes, then add your veal stock; let it boil up for a quarter of an hour; now put in your chickens or rabbits, cut as for fricassee; curry powder, the quan- tity of which you must regulate according to taste; two large spoonfuls of rice, a little cayenne pepper, and a little salt. Let it boil till the rice is tender; skim it clean; and before serving stir in carefully a pint of good cream.15 SOUPS 19. Soup & la Flamande.—Take two quarts of good veal stock, put m a small handful of sliced spinach and sorrel, and let it boil till this is tender; season it with salt, and while it is boiling, but about two minutes before serving, stir into it a pint of cream previously well mixed with the yolks of six eggs. 20. Turnip Soup. — Slice six yellow turnips, two large onions, a carrot, and a piece of celery; stew them till tender in a quarter of a pound of butter, then add a little boiling soup, and let it boil till the vegetables are thoroughly done; rub them through a sieve, return them to the stew-pan, and add as much soup as you require for your tureen; let it boil; beat up the yolks of six eggs in a pint of cream, and just before serving stir it into the soup. Season with white pepper and salt. 21. Potage k la Purde de Len- tilles.—Take six heads of celery, three onions, two turnips, and four carrots ; put them into a stew-pan with one pound of lentils, a large slice of ham, and a quarter of a pound of butter; set it upon a stove to stew slowly for one hour, then add two quarts of soup, and let it stew for two hours; strain the soup into a dish, and put the vegetables and lentils into a mortar and pound them; then rub through a sieve with a little of the broth by means of a wooden spoon; put it again into the stew-pan, with a little salt and the crust of a French roll toasted, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. It may be made without the French roll, and fried bread served with it. When celery cannot be procured, the seed, as a substi- tute, is almost as good; the same with chervil. 22. White Celery Soup.—Two quarts of veal stock boiled with six heads of celery till done very tender ; strain it and add six more heads of celery cut very fine, and two ounces of butter mixed with three tablespoonfuls of flour. Stew till the celery is quite tender, and just before removing from the fire add half a pint of good cream pre- viously scalded. Season with salt, a small piece of sugar, and a very little cayenne. 23. Purde of Green Peas.— Take three pints of green peas, two turnips, two onions, a small bunch of mint, and one head of celery cut in pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter and one quart of soup; let them stew till tender enough to rub through a tammy; when this is done add two quarts more soup. Season with salt and a small piece of sugar; let it come to the boil, and add one teacupful of spinach- juice to make it a fine green colour. Spinach-juice for Greening.— Pound some spinach in a mortar, squeeze it through a tammy or sieve; put the juice in a stew-pan on the fire till it curdles; then pour the water off through a fine lawn sieve, and rub the green residue through with a little broth. 24. Soup Maigre.—Put three pints of green peas in a gallon of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, a French roll, a blade of mace, a few cloves, and some pepper. Let these boil till it comes to three quarts; strain it, and put in a pint of young peas. Then take some lettuces, some parsley, young leeks, and16 DAINTY DISHES celery; chop them small and fry them in brown butter, drain them, and add them to your soup. A small piece of bacon may be used to season it. 25. White Soup Maigre.—Take a large handful of chervil, four heads of celery, two onions, three lettuces, a little sorrel, thyme, and tarragon ; boil these in a quart of water upon the stove till quite stewed down. About a quarter of an hour before dinner take it off and strain it from the herbs, and let it stand till it is cool; then add to it a pint of good cream, thickened with the yolks of three eggs; stir it well in, and put it on the fire to heat, but do not let it boil. Greer peas or asparagus, sorrel or rice may be added. 26. Another Soup Maigre.— Six cucumbers, four lettuces, two onions, a good handful of spinach, a sprig of mint, and a pint of shelled peas, a small piece of ham, and a quarter of a pound of butter; put these into two quarts of water and boil for four hours, and then pass it all through a sieve. When done, put in a pint of green peas well boiled, and a few slices of cucumber or any other vegetable you like. The vegetables should be well washed, and the cucumbers and lettuces cut before being put in. FISH SOUPS. 27. Stock for Brown or White Fish Soup.—Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two lb. of eels; clean them well, and cut them into pieces; cover them with water, and season with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer all together in a stew-pan closely covered for an hour and a half, then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then proceed as above. It will not keep more than two or three days, and is best used quite fresh. 28. Salmon Soup.—Take a fowl or an equivalent piece of veal, a piece of lean ham, a few anchovies, and half a pound of salmon; put them all together in a stew-pan, with a piece of fresh butter, on the fire; lot it stew for half an hour, taking care it does not brown ; add three quarts of water, and skim well; add to it a head of celery, two or three onions, a little parsley, two or three cloves, and a little allspice and white pepper; let it boil an hour and a half, and strain it through a lawn sieve ; then take a pan with a bit of butter and at spoonful of flour, stir them together till it comes to a fight brown, then add the stock and stir till it boils ; take care and skim off all the butter; now stir in a piece of salmon, previously boiled, pounded, and rubbed through a tammy with i a little cream, and, if you have it, some lobster spawn, which gives it a fine colour. Have ready a slice of salmon, boiled quick in water; cut it in small pieces, and add it to the soup before you serve it up. 29. Soup & la Melton Mow- bray.—Fillet two middling-sized haddocks with the skin on; lay them on a buttered saute-pan on which you have previously sprinkled six finely - chopped eschalots, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and a pinch of finely-powdered mace. Take the heads, bones, and trimmings, and set them in aFISH SOUPS 11 saucepan over the fire for a few minutes, and then add two quarts of good stock; simmer for half an hour. Blanch and beard fifty oysters; add the liquor to the stock, and the oysters to the fillets; thicken the soup with roux, and, when well Bkimmed and clarified, add it to the fillets previously slightly fried. Let it boil five minutes; add half a pint of Madeira or dry sherry, the juice of half a lemon, and season with cayenne to taste. When haddocks oannot be procured, soles or whitings do as well. It is also excellent made with cod-sounds, well soaked and blanched, instead of fillets of fish, and codfish used for the stock. 30. Cod’s-head Soup. —Make half a gallon of strong stock as follows : Take two pounds of beef, half a knuckle of veal, and a pound and a half of lean ham, two large onions stewed in butter, with a little gravy to keep them from turning brown. Let it boil up, then add a bunch of sweet herbs, marjoram, thyme, and basil, two bay-leaves, a small handful of parsley, and the peel of half a lemon. Let it stew gently till the herbs are tender, then pass it through a tammy. Now take half a bottle of white wine, the eighth of an ounce of cloves, and the same quantity of black pepper, the eighth of a pound of anchovies, and a quarter of a pint of mushroom ketchup ; stew all these together Blowly for a quarter of an hour, strain, and add the liquor to the stock. Season with a little cayenne pepper and salt, and thicken with a little roux. Have ready a large cod’s head stewed in a pan with a little stock till all the meat comes from the bones. Add this fish and the gravy it was stewed in to your soup, and let it boil up, with forced-meat balls and little eggs thus prepared : Take half a pound of cod, six large oysters, three anchovies, and a quarter of a pound of suet; season highly; add a few breadcrumbs and one egg, and make into baUs. The little eggs are made by beating three hard boiled yolks of eggs m a mortar to a paste with the yolk of one raw egg. Roll into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes. 31. Scotch Fish Soup—Take four haddocks, skin them, and take out all the bones; cut them into pieces about two inches long ; then put the heads, skins and bones, after being well washed, into four quarts of good beef-stock, with three onions, and let it boil for an hour; then strain the soup into a clean saucepan, into which put two onions, chopped very small, a turnip and a carrot, which latter are to be taken out. Let it boil five minutes, then put in your pieces of fish with a handful of minced parsley, and let it boil eight minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Some add two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, but the compiler dis- approves of it. 32. A Marseilles Receipt for Bouillabaise. — Almost any sort of fish may be used in making bouillabaise, and the more kinds the better. Those generally used, because caught in the Mediterra- nean, are whitings, red mullets, soles, gurnet, turbot, lobsters, and oray-fish. Slice two large onions, place them in a wide but deep stew-pan made of thin metal; add four or five spoonfuls of the best olive-oil. Fry the onions of a pale brown colour. Next place the fish, B18 DAINTY DISHES previously washed and cut in small pieces, in the pan, and cover them with warm water, but not more than equals the depth of the con- tents ; add salt in moderation, half a bay-leaf, and the flesh of half a lemon without rind or pips, two tomatoes cut in dice and the seeds removed, a small tumbler of light white wine, a few peppercorns, and four cloves of garlic. Set it on a very hot stove, and let it boil for twelve minutes. By this time the liquor should be reduced to a third of its original quantity; add a small pinch of saffron, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, and allow it to boil a minute longer; taste and correct the seasoning if re- quired. Have ready your tureen or deep dish with two dozen slices of light French roll or bread, cut half an inch thick, laid in the bottom; pour some of the soup over, and turn the bread, so that it may be thoroughly soaked; then pour in the remainder, keeping back the inferior parts of the fish, and serve very hot. This is sometimes varied by adding a liaison made of the yolks of six or seven eggs, adding to some of the soup, which is to be stirred quickly over the fire till it comes to the consistency of custard, and then poured over the slices of bread. 33. Bouillahaise k l’Anglaise. —As the preceding receipt is often considered too strong for the Eng- lish palate, this is in a milder form; it is excellent, and exceedingly nourishing and wholesome for an invalid. Take cod, mullet, whiting, turbot, or any other fish you like, cut them cross ways, in pieces of from about two ounces to a quarter of a pound each. Slice two good-sized onions, place them in a stew-pan large enough to contain all the fish at the bottom—a shallow pan is best. Add two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil; fry the onions a light brown ; put in the fish with as much warm water as will cover them well, a teaspoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, half a bay leaf, the flesh of half a peeled lemon cut in dice, two tomatoes cut in slices and their seeds removed, two small glasses of sherry or other white wine, a few peppercorns, and half a clove of garlic. Set on a fierce fire, and boil very fast for twelve minutes, or till the liquor is reduced to one- third. Then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, let it boil one minute longer, and pour it into a deep dish over slices of bread, the same as the other. This is also very good made with all sorts of fresh-water fish, and the garlic may be entirely omitted. 34. Oyster Soup.—Take eighty oysters and their liquor; place them in a pan with salt, cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped chervil; when boiling, add three yolks of eggs beat up in half a pint of cream, and serve. This is enough for five persons. If the oysters have not sufficient liquor, a little water and salt may be added, and parsley may be used, if pre- ferred, instead of chervil. 35. Pepper Pot. — This soup, which is of West Indian origin, should be made in an earthen pot, which always remains by the side of the fire, where the contents simmer but do not boil. These should consist of an equal admix- ture of fish, flesh, fowl and vege- tables, seasoned with chilies or19 SAUCES Cayenne pepper and salt—the only attention it requires being occa- sional skimming and the addition of a little water when it gets too dry. Anything and everything may be put into it; and as it should at all times be simmering by the fire, a good meal is always ready for any guest that may chance to come uninvited. Sauces. COLD SAUCES. 36. Balbirnie Sauce for Cold Pheasant. — A small shallot chopped as fine as possible, one spoonful of mustard, one table- spoonful of oil. Mix thoroughly and add a little salt, one table- spoonful of vinegar, and two of ketchup. This is excellent. 37. Sauce Piquante.—One large spoonful of mustard, one of sugar, worked smooth together with a few drops of olive-oil, one tablespoonful of shallot or tarragon vinegar, or half a one of each, one of ketchup, and two of Harvey sauce. 38. Hanoverian Sauce for Boar’s Head, etc. — The outer rind of a lemon (a Seville orange is better) cut in very thin small slices, one tablespoonful of pounded- sugar; squeeze the juice of a lemon over the two together, add half a tablespoonful of mustard, two of oil, and two of port wine. This is an excellent sauce for wild duck. 39. Sauce Provengale. — Put into a basin two raw yolks of eggs, a good pinch of salt and two spoon- fuls of mustard, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Take a spoon and beat it well and quickly. When it is well mixed, add a few drops of common vinegar and the same of oil; beat them well in as you add them, taking care never to put in too much oil at a time. Continue to add till you have enough sauce, and have worked it quite smooth and thick; then taste and season as it may require with salt, pepper, or more vinegar, and stir in some finely-chopped chervil, parsley, and tarragon. 40. Sauce for Cold Meat or Fish. — Shred parsley, a little shallot, and half a clove of garlic very fine. Rub them down in two spoonfuls of good oil and five yolks of eggs well beaten; add a little salt and pepper, one spoonful of mustard, two of tarragon vinegar, or elder if preferred, and one of white wine. Continue beating till of a good consistence; it takes three-quarters of an hour to make it well. 41. Dutch Sauce for Cold Meat.—Beat up the white of an egg with a little white pepper and salt, a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, a small shallot and onion, a teaspoonful of mustard, and two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. Whisk it well together, and add a spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar; grated horseradish may be added if liked. 42. Sauce for Cold Game, etc. —Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs through a sieve ; add two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, two of tarragon vinegar, one of chili, half a spoonful of walnut ketchup, rDAINTY DISHES 20 and three of common vinegar, a small quantity of minced parsley and shallot, some pepper and salt. Add enough cream to make the consistence of thick custard. 43. Sauce k la Tartare.—Take two anchovies, wash them well; two yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Mince separately some parsley, shallot, or onion, and tarragon. Put all into a small bowl with a spoonful of French mustard, one of olive-oil, and one of vinegar, a little pepper and salt; beat with a wooden spoon till it is smooth. It is good with meat, fish or game, with or without salad. 44. Sauce Piquante. — Pound together two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce grated horseradish, half an ounce of salt, a tablespoon- ful of mustard, a little minced shallot, one teaspoonful of celery an$ one of cress-seed, a small quantity of cayenne. Add gradu- ally a wineglassful of oil, and two of tarragon, horseradish, or cress vinegar. Set it over a gentle fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till it is like thick cream, then let it cool. 45. Cold Sauce for Grouse, or other Game.—Mix the yolks of two raw eggs with a spoonful of salad-oil very smooth; then add three spoonfuls of vinegar, one of sugar, and three of finely-chopped parsley, green onion, and a little shallot; add some pepper and salt. Out up your game, and just before serving pour this sauce over it. 46. German Sauce for Boiled Beef. — Take six ordinary - sized potatoes, boil them in salt and water, skin them, and let them cool, grate them with a sugar- grater ; add the yolks of six hard- boiled eggs, mix them well together; then take four spoonfuls of fine olive-oil and two of vinegar, and pass all through a hair sieve ; add a little finely-minced parsley. This sauce should be pretty thiok, but if it appears too much so, more vinegar may be added. This is enough for a large quantity. 47. Mustard Sauce.—A teacup- ful of mustard to be put into a dish with a teaspoonful of sugar, one of olive-oil, and a little salt; to be well mixed with the yolk of a hard- boiled egg rubbed down; add aB much vinegar as will make it suf- ficiently liquid, and strain it through a sieve. 48. Sauce k la Tartare.—Chop one onion, two shallots, a little parsley and tarragon, and a few capers, very fine; two yolks of eggs boiled hard, rubbed down, and dissolved by a little drop of water. Mix all these well together, and add a spoonful of tarragon and one of plain vinegar ; beat it well with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees a spoonful of olive-oil and mustard to your taste. This is a very good receipt, and is excellent with broiled fowl, or grouse, or eels, or salmon, and with cold meat of all kinds. 49. Sauce k la Ravigote.—Take capers, burnet, chervil, tarragon, a few stalks of celery, and two balm leaves; pick and wash them; also two anchovies. Mince the whole very fine, add a little fine pepper and salt, put all into a marble mortar, and beat till it is thoroughly mixed. While beating, add the yolk of a raw egg and a little olive- oil, and at intervals moisten it with a little white vinegar till it is of the consistence of thick cream. Mus- tard may be added, if liked, and chopped green chilies.21 SAUCES 50. Indian Sauce. — Three apples, one large cucumber, with the seeds taken out, two onions, eighteen fresh green chilies, and three tomatoes; to which add one small spoonful of cayenne. Mince all very fine, mix well together, put in a little salt, and cover with vinegar. It is ready for immediate use, but will keep a long time, and is excellent with cold meat. 51. Poivrade Sauce to Keep. —Half a pint of the best vinegar, half a pint of water, two large onions, half a handful of horse- radish, and a little pounded white pepper and salt. Boil all together for a quarter of an hour, strain it clear, and bottle it. This may be added to gravy when used. 52. Mayonnaise. — Take three spoonfuls of sauce allemande (see No. 87), six of aspic; add a spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar, a little pepper and salt, and some finely- chopped herbs, such as tarragon, chervil, burnet, etc., or minced parsley alone. Add these, and then set the sauce on the ice to freeze till it becomes quite stiff. This may be used with fish or meat. 53. Sauce Remoulade or Vinai- grette.—Put into a sauce-boat a shallot, a clove of garlic, some parsley and green onions, all minced very fine; add a little pepper, a spoonful of mustard, three tablespoonfuls of oil, and two of vinegar. This is very good with all cold meats. 54. Mayonnaise. — Choose two very white yolks of eggs, add to them a little fine salt, and two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; beat this quickly in a mortar or dish with a wooden spoon. "When well mixed add by degrees a wine- glassful of olive-oil and a little more vinegar. Work it well against the sides of the dish, as this makes it creamy and thick. You may add more oil or vinegar —either elder, tarragon, or shallot —as your sauce makes, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. It must be made very quickly in a dry, cool place, or it will curdle. If you have no ice to freeze it, and wish it to look very white, rub in a few drops of cold water. 55. The Same h la Ravigote.— Blanch a ravigote of tarragon, scallions, and chervil for five or six minutes in boiling water; let them cool, squeeze and pound them; add a spoonful of mayon- naise. When it is well incorpor- ated, strain and mix by degrees with the above mayonnaise. 56. Beurre h la Maitre d’Hotel. —Put on a plate a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a spoonful of salt and one of pepper, two of chopped parsley, the juice of a middle sized lemon (if you have no lemon you can use vinegar), and a very little cayenne. Mix all well together and keep it in a cool place. This is good with kidneys and all broiled meat and fish. 57. Anchovy Butter.—Take six anchovies, scrape and wash them, bruise them on a board, and mix six ounces of fresh butter with them; pass through a sieve, and keep in a cold place for use. 58. Pimento Butter. — Two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of chilies chopped fine, one of parsley, a piece of garlic the size of a small pea scraped, half a spoonful of salt, a little pepper, and the juice of half a lemon—all well mixed.DAINTY DISHES 59. Shallot Butter.—A quarter of a lb. of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, a little cayenne, salt, and pepper, half a teaspoon- ful of mustard, and the juice of a lemon ; mix all well together. These butters are all good for cold or broiled meats and salads. 60. Beurre de Montpellier.— Take a handful of chervil, tarra- gon, burnet, and green onions or chives; wash them very clean and blanch them in boiling water with a handful of salt, which keeps them green; let them boil six minutes, and put them into cold water to cool; have ready eight hard-boiled yolks of eggs; drain the herbs and squeeze all the water out of them; put them into a mortar, and pound them to a pulp; add the yolks of eggs, ten anchovies (washed and boned), two spoonfuls of capers, a very little bit of garlic (this may be omitted if not liked), some salt, a little cayenne, and a small quan- tity of mustard. Pound all this together till quite smooth, then add half a pound of very fresh butter, a spoonful of olive-oil, and one of elder or tarragon vinegar. Taste if it requires more seasoning, and rub it all through a sieve. None of the herbs should predominate; and if not green enough, add some spinach or parsley juice. Put it on the ice, and use it for anything cold, such as salads of fish, game, etc. To make the greening of spinach or parsley, pick and wash two large handfuls of spinach or parsley; pound them in a mortar; squeeze them through a tammy, and pour all the juice into a small stew-pan; set it on the fire, but take care it does not boil; and when it just begins to curdle, strain it through a silk sieve, and use as required. 61. Salad Sauce.—The yolks of three raw fresh eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mustard; beat it well together one minute, then add and mix, by little at a tune, three tablespoonfuls of the finest olive-oil, and one of the best vinegar. 62. Salad Sauce.—Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs well bruised, two tablespoonfuls of oil well mixed, the same of vinegar, a teaspoonful of chili vinegar, and the same of salt and mustard. 63. Balbirnie Salad Sauce.— Two eggs boiled twenty - five minutes and well bruised, two spoonfuls of salt, two yolks of raw fresh eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of oil, mixed slowly in a cup with a wooden spoon. When half the oil is mixed in, a little at a time, add half a teaspoonful of mustard, and then the remainder of the oil; by so doing it will become as thick as a paste; then add two tablespoon- fuls of French tarragon vinegar, and mix well. This is excellent to eat with beetroot. 64. German Salad Sauce.—Six tablespoonfuls of oil, and eight of the best vinegar, two of tarragon vinegar, and one of chili, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; stir together and mix well with the salad. The red wine vinegar of Germany and olive-oil, mixed in the proportion of one tablespoonful of vinegar to two »f oil, and a little salt and pepper, makes the best possible summer salad sauce. 65. Salad Sauce.—The yolk of one hard-boiled egg mixed with one raw one and a little water, a teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of mixed cayenne andSAUCES 23 black pepper, and one of mustard, oil or thick cream. Cream may a tablespoonful of vinegar, one of generally be substituted for oil in anchovy sauce, and five of either salad sauces. COLD SAUCES TO KEEP. 66. A useful Sauce for Cold Meat, etc.—Half a pint of mush- room ketchup, three anchovies, a gill of walnut ketchup, four fresh green ohilies, two shallots or clove of garlic—pound them together; if you have no chilies, use a large pinch of cayenne; mix it well, bottle, and stop it close. 67. A Chutnee Sauce. — Pulp five or six roasted apples, colour them with turmeric and beetroot juice till they are of the colour of a tomato, add a tablespoonful of chili vinegar, a clove of garlic, a shallot, a small quantity of cayenne and salt; simmer gently for some time. It ought to be of the consis- tency of thick oream. When cool put into half-pint bottles, and cork it down. 68. A Good Sauce. — Haricots one quart, vinegar and water of each half a pint, three heaped spoonfuls of grated horseradish, a sliced lemon, a few chilies, twenty cloves, a few bits of nutmeg; simmer gently till the water is evaporated. When cool, add half a pint of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and the same of essenoe of anchovy. 69. Fish Sauce to Keep.—Dis- solve six anchovies in a glass of ort wine, bruise six shallots and oil them in a quart of walnut ketchup, with a few cloves, a couple of blades of mace, and some whole pepper, for about half an hour; let it cool, mix in the an- chovies, add half a pint of port wine. 70. Another. — Port wine one bottle; sherry, walnut, and mush- room ketchups, of each half a bottle; the juice of four small Seville oranges ; shallots and horseradish, of each half a pound ; two ounces of made mustard, and a quarter of an ounce of cayenne. This is an excellent sauce. 71. Sauce ‘ Volage.’ — Pound well in a mortar six anchovies, six shallots, four cloves of garlic, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, and add one pint of vinegar. Put all together into a jar, let it stand ten days, strain it through muslin, and bottle for use. It is muoh improved by keeping. 72. Gunner’s Delight.—Half a pound of sharp apples, half a pound of onions, both raw, to be chopped fine and well mixed; add two or three chilies, cover the whole en- tirely with best white vinegar. 73. Camp Vinegar.—One head f garlic cut in shoes, half an ounce of cayenne, a large glass of soy, one of mushroom or walnut ketchup, a pint of the best vinegar, and a little spirit of cochineal to give it a fine colour. Shake it often for five or six weeks; filter, and bottle it in small bottles. 74. Shallot Vinegar.—Split six or eight shallots, put them into a quart bottle, and fill it up with the best vinegar; stop it close, and in a month it will be fit for use. 75. Tarragon Vinegar.—Fill a wide - mouthed bottle with fresh- gathered tarragon leaves ; they are best between Midsummer and Michaelmas, just before flowering,24 DAINTY DISHES and should bo gathered on a dry day. Pick the leaves off the stalks and dry them a little before the fire, cover them with the best vinegar; let them steep fourteen days, then strain, bottle, and cork it well; keep it in a dry place. Elderflower, chervil, basil, burnet, and many other herbs, may be made to flavour vinegar in the same way. 76. An excellent Vinegar for Salads.—Take tarragon, savory, chives, and shallots, each three ounces; a handful of the tops of mint and balm, all dried and pounded. Put them into a wide- mouthed bottle with a gallon of the best vinegar, cork it close, set it in the sun, and in a fortnight strain it off and squeeze the herbs. Let it stand to settle, then strain through a filtering-bag and bottle it. 77. Mushroom Ketchup.—Chop two pecks of mushrooms small, add a pound of salt; let it stand four days, then strain and pass it through a cloth; let the liquor settle and pour it off into a stewpan; add half an ounce of allspice, the same of whole pepper, and a piece of ginger. Boil all together for half an hour; when cold, strain and bottle. 78. Tomato Ketchup.—Half a bushel of tomatoes boiled till they are soft; rub them through a fine hair-sieve, and add a quarter of a gallon of the best vinegar, half a pint of salt, one ounce of cloves, one of cayenne pepper, two ounces of allspice, two heads of garlic, skinned and separated. Mix all to- gether, and boil three hours, or until the quantity is reduced one- half. Bottle without straining. 79. A good Sauce. — Black pepper, pounded allspice, and salt, of each an ounce; half an ounce of minced shallot, one pint of mush- room ketchup, a tablespoonful of port wine, and a teaspoonful of chili vinegar. Set the bottle for twenty-four hours in 90° of heat; let it stand for a week, then strain and bottle it. It is excellent added to gravy for outlets. HOT SAUCES. Roux, or Thickening for Sauces. —This is of two kinds, brown and white, and is the foundation of many sauces, and although very simple requires the greatest atten- tion in making, and should always be kept in readiness for use. 80. Brown Roux.—Melt some butter very slowly, stir into it browned flour—which is easily made by laying a quantity of fine flour on a dish before the fire, or in a moderate oven, till it is of a fine even brown, not too dark ; add as much to the butter as will make it the thickness of paste, stirring well with a wooden spoon for fif- teen or twenty minutes till it is of a yellowish-brown colour. This must be done gradually, with care and patience ; if the fire is too hot it will become bitter and spoil everything it is put into; when cold it should be thick enough to cut with a knife. It will keep a fortnight. 81. White Roux.—Melt some good fresh butter slowly and stir it into the best sifted flour till like a thin, firm paste ; stir it well over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, taking care it does not brown. ThisSAUCES 25 Is used for thickening white sances. Pour it into jars to keep for use. 82. Clear Gravy of Veal for Sauces.—Lay in the bottom of a stew a small slice of fat bacon; on that place four pounds of leg of veal, a slice of raw ham, two onions, two carrots, and some pars- ley; add three spoonfuls of stock, cover it close, set it upon a slow fire, till it becomes dry and brown. Take the greatest care it does not burn, and move the pan round frequently that it may not colour more in one part than another. Pour in four quarts of stock, and let it simmer for half an hour, and strain through a lawn sieve. It should be a fine amber colour, and as clear as possible. 83. Brown Gravy for Sauces.— Cut eight pounds of the lean part of a knuckle of veal into small pieces, with two pounds of lean ham, and if you have an old fowl you may add it. Put all in a stew- pan, with one ounce of butter, three onions, two carrots, eight mush- rooms, one head of celery, one parsnip, a blade of mace, and a quarter of a pint of water or stock. Let it stew slowly, with the cover on the pan, till it catches at the bottom, then add four quarts more water or stock, let it boil gently, and strain it. 84. Oullis, or Brown Sauce.— Put six pounds of lean veal, cut in slices, and two pounds of raw lean ham into a stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, a handful of chopped mushrooms, three onions, one carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, the rind of a lemon, and a tea- spoonful of mixed allspice, clove, and mace. Let it just brown at the bottom, then add four quarts of good brown gravy, and let it boil three or four hours ; strain it off, thicken it with brown roux, and boil it well for ten minutes, stirring all the time, then pass it through a tammy. 85. Bechamel, or White Sauce. —Chop two pounds of veal and one pound of ham in small pieces, a dozen of mushrooms and two onions sliced, four cloves, two blades of maoe, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, and a quarter of a pound of butter; add three pints of white gravy, and let all stew gently one horn and a half. Mix some of the gravy with two teacup- fuls of flour, and add it to a quart of cream. Put this into your stock, let it boil a quarter of an horn’, stirring it well that it may not burn at the bottom; strain, and season with salt. 86. Sauce Tournde is made of the same ingredients, and in the same proportion, as oullis. When boiled three hours, strain it; add half a pound of butter and two tea- cupfuls of flour ; boil well together for half an hour, stirring that it may not brown. This sauce is used in fish or vegetable salads. 87. Sauce Allemande.—Put a little minced ham into a stew-pan with a few trimmings of poultry either dressed or raw, three shallots, half a small clove of garlic, a bay leaf, two tarragon leaves, and a few spoonfuls of stock. Let them simmer for half an hour, strain it off, and add some cullis: squeeze in a lemon. Season to taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, and sugar. The above are all stock sauoes, the foundation for others. 88. Sauce Veloutd. — Heat in melted butter one pound of vealDAINTY DISHES 26 and any bits of fowl you may have, together with a dozen good-sized mushrooms: do not let them brown; then put them into a sauce- pan, with two carrots and onions, a large tablespoonful of flour, salt, pepper, a little mixed spioe, and as much veal gravy as will cover them. Let it boil up, skim off the fat, and let it simmer for an horn: and a half; strain, and keep it covered for use. 89. Sauce k l’Espagnole.—Put about a pint of cullis in a stew-pan, with a largish glass of white wine, the same of good broth, a bunch of parsley, a few small onions, a dove of garlic, two cloves, a bay leaf, a small pinch of coriander-seeds, an onion, a carrot, and a parsnip out in slices ; add two spoonfuls of oil. Boil for two hours over a very gentle fire, remove the grease, and pass through a sieve: season with salt and whole pepper. This sauce is good with all sorts of meat. 90. White Sauce for Chicken, Veal, or Vegetables.—To a pint of good veal gravy add a spoonful of lemon-juice, half an anchovy, a teaspoonful of mushroom-powder, a few button-mushrooms, potted or fresh. Give them a gentle boil, then put in half a pint of oream and the yolks of two eggs beaten very smooth. Shake it over the fire, after the cream and eggs are added, but do not let it boil, as it would curdle the cream. 91. Ham Sauce.—When a ham is nearly done, pick the meat that is left clean from the bone, leaving out any part that does not appear good ; beat the m*at and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin; put it into a saucepan with three spoonfuls of gravy, set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on about half an hour, add to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of brown gravy ; oover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain it off. A little of this improves most gravies and sauoes. 92. Sauce Hachde. — Take a large tablespoonful of chopped onions, the same of parsley, and a little gravy. Boil them together five minutes, then add a table- spoonful of minced pickled cucum- bers, another of boiled carrots chopped small, and a thud of capers; add half a pint of cullis. Boil all together for a few minutes, season with salt, a little sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Good for cutlets, etc. 93. Sauce Poulette.—Beat up six yolks of eggs with two spoon- fuls of cream, the juice of one lemon, and half a pint of bechamel or white sauce. Heat all together, add some shred sorrel; season with salt and a little cayenne. Good for boiled fowls and chickens. 94. Sauce Piquante.— Boil a tablespoonful of chopped onion, parsley, and mushroom together in a little butter for five minutes; add a quarter of a pint of cullis, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and season with salt and cayenne. Let it boil one minute, and serve with outlets, broiled fowl, etc. 95. Sauce k la Dusselle.—Put a little butter into a stew-pan with an equal quantity of rasped bacon, some fine herbs, parsley, a little shallot, and some mushrooms, all minced fine; season with pepper and salt, and stew over a slow fire. Beat the yolks of four eggs withSAUCES 27 the juice of a lemon, and when the herbs are just done pour them in to thicken the sauce, which it will not do if the herbs are too much stewed. This is used for cbtelettes & la Maintenon, sweetbreads, fat livers, etc. 96. Sauce k la Maitre d’HStel. —Chop six shallots, one teaspoon- ful of parsley, one of fennel, and a dozen mushrooms fine. Let them boil together for five minutes in two ounces of butter; add half a pint of cullis, boil ten minutes more; season with salt and pepper and the squeeze of a lemon. If for a white Maitre d’H6tel, use the same quantity of bechamel instead of cullis. 97. Maitre d’Hotel Maigre is nothing more than melted butter with a little chopped parsley, and a little shallot if liked, seasoned with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. 98. Truffle Sauce.— Pare eighteen truffles and slice them, boil them together in two ounces of butter till tender, add half a pint of bechamel or cullis, according as you wish your sauce white or brown; season with salt and the squeeze of a lemon. Mushroom sauce may be made in the same way. 99. Italian Sauce.—Chop four cloves of garlic, six shallots, five mushrooms, and a teacupful of parsley fine; add two fcablespoon- fuls of sweet oil, and boil them together for five minutes; add half a pint of cullis (or bechamel if for white sauce), and a glass of white wine; season with pepper and salt. The wine may be omitted. 100. Tomato Sauce.—Remove the seeds from a dozen tomatoes; put them in a stew-pan, with an onion, a few pieces of ham, a clove, and a sprig of thyme. When quite boiled down, rub them through a tammy; and to the pur^e add a few spoonfuls of cullis, a little salt and pepper, and boil it for twenty minutes. 101. Tomato Sauce to Keep. —Take tomatoes when quite ripe, bake them till tender, skin them, and rub them through a sieve ; to every pound of tomatoes add one quart of chili vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, half an ounce of salt, one ounce of garlic, and one of shallot, with the juice of three lemons. Boil the whole together till it becomes the consis- tency of thick cream; strain it through a very fine sieve ; let it stand till cold, and bottle it for use in wide-mouthed bottles. This is excellent for fish, cutlets, etc., and may be used merely heated up, or a few spoonfuls of cullis added to a sufficiency of it. 102. Spanish Receipt for a Tomato Sauce to Keep.—Boil white sugar, in the proportion of an ounce to each tomato, until it becomes candied; add a fourth part of the quantity of tomatoes you have of onions, and when they begin to colour put in the tomatoes ; season with salt, pepper, a few cloves, and a little nutmeg. Boil the whole over a very quick fire ; when sufficiently thick, strain it through a hair sieve. Set it on the fire again immediately, and boil till it is very thick. Put it into jelly-pots; cover with two papers, the first one oiled, and keep in a cool dark place. This may be made in the same manner, but omitting the onions. 103. Sauce Piquante.—Put into28 DAINTY DISHES a stew-pan three or four slices of ham, three shallots cut small, a few peppercorns, and four wine- glasses of sherry. Let it simmer for twenty minutes, then add about half a pint of cullis. Let it stew a quarter of an hour longer ; skim it well; season to your taste with salt and pepper, and strain through a fine sieve. Good with various entries, kromeskies, etc. 104. Relishing Sauce for Broiled Bones, Chicken, or Fish. —Put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stew-pan, with one of chili vinegar, one of common vinegar, three of water, two of mushroom ketchup, two of Har- vey’s sauce, and one of anchovy. Add to it a pint of melted butter ; let it simmer till it adheres to the back of the spoon ; add half a tea- spoonful of sugar, and it is ready for use. 105. Sauce au Jus d’Orange.— Put half a glass of good stock in a stew-pan, and the same of brown gravy, a Seville orange peel grated, a piece of butter mixed with flour about half the size of an egg, and a little salt and pepper. Set it on the stove, and, when it thickens, squeeze in the juice of a Seville orange. This is good for wild duck, game, and poultry. 106. Sauce for Wild Ducks.— Four tablespoonfuls of gravy, two of Harvey’s sauce, two spoonfuls of mustard, a quarter of a lemon squeezed, four small wineglassfuls of port wine, half a saltspoon of cayenne pepper. Make it very hot, and serve. 107. Sauce for Teal or Wild Fowl.—A small onion and a shallot chopped fine, four or five leaves of sweet basil, and the peel of a lemon shred small; put into half a pint of gravy. Let this boil five minutes; strain, and add a spoonful of salt, half a one of cayenne pepper, a few drops of shallot vinegar, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of port wine. Serve it very hot. 108. Sauce Royal. — Boil for four or five minutes six shallots in a tablespoonful of sweet-oil; add half a pint of sauce tournee (No. 86), a glass of white wine or champagne ; strain it, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream. 109. Sauce k la Reine.—Pound the breast of a fowl very fine; add to it a pint of bechamel (No. 85) and half a pint of cream, a little salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice. 110. Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowl or Rabbit.—The inside of one lemon peeled, and the pips re- moved, cut in dice; the fiver of the fowl or rabbit minced, half a pint of bechamel or melted butter. Season with salt; add a little minced parsley for rabbit, or tar- ragon for the fowl. Boil on a slow fire. 111. Green Sauce for Duck- lings.—Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice with a glass of broth or gravy; scald some green goose- berries, rub them through a sieve ; add a little sugar and a small piece of butter. Set it on the fire and make it very hot. This is also very good for green goose. 112. Apple Sauce—Pare, core, and slice as many apples as you require for your sauce; put them into a pipkin with two or three spoonfuls of water, and set them on a hot hearth, till they fall to pieces. Or they may be done au bain-marie—i.e., set the pipkin in a vessel of boiling water to boil29 SAUCES till they are done ; then mash them well, and add a little brown sugar. 113. Bread Sauce.—Boil a good- sized onion cut in four, and some black peppercorns, in milk, till the onion is quite a pap, then strain the milk on to grated white stale breadcrumbs; cover it close, and let it stand for an hour; put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; beat it well together over the fire, and serve. 114. Bread Sauce. — Boil the crumb of a French roll and a whole onion in half a pint of cream ; add one ounce of butter and twelve peppercorns. When done, take out the onion, beat up your sauce, and season with salt and pepper. 115. Sauce Poivrade — Take a bit of butter about the size of half an egg, two or three onions accord- ing to their size ; cut in slices also carrots and parsnips; shred two cloves, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and sweet basil, and a little flour. Put all together in a saucepan, and set it on the fire to brown; then put in a glass of red wine, a glass of water, and a spoonful of vinegar. Let it boil half an hour, strain through a sieve, and add a little salt and whole pepper. This is good for all game. 116. Sauce au Petit Maitre.— A glass of white wine, half a lemon cut in slices, a piece of crumb of bread chopped small, two tea- spoonfuls of salad oil, a bunch of parsley, two or three small onions, two cloves, a few leaves of tar- ragon, a clove of garlic, a little salt and pepper, and a glass of good broth. Put all in a stew-pan, set it on a gentle fire to boil for a quarter of an hour; remove the grease, strain through a sieve, and serve. This is good for either poultry or game. 117. Sauce k la Marquise.— Take a handful of chopped bread- crumbs, a piece of butter the size of half a crown, a tablespoonful of the best olive-oil, a shallot minced fine, some salt, whole pepper, and as much vinegar as will cover all. Put it into a stew-pan, and stir with a spoon over the fire till it boils. Good with all sorts of meat. 118. Green Sauce for Boiled Chicken. — Take a teacupful of spinach-juice, add the juice of one lemon, two yolks of eggs beat up, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Just heat, and serve. 119. A Good Gravy for Game or Fowl.—Boil some veal gravy with pepper and salt, and the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon. 120. Onion Sauce. — Peel the onions and boil them tender; squeeze the water from them; chop, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth with milk instead of water. Boil it up once. For boiled rabbits, shoulder of mutton, etc. 121. Onion - Sauce, Brown.— Boast four- large onions, peel and pulp them into a rich stock with salt, cayenne, a glass of port wine, a little vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon ; simmer and stir into it a small piece of butter. Good for cutlets, etc. 122. Pur4e or Sorrel.— Wash and pick some sorrel, and put it in a stew-pan with a little water; keep stirring to prevent its burn- ing ; when tender lay it on a hair sieve to drain; then chop it fine, and put it back in the stew-pan with a little butter. Let it fry, stirring it often till all the water isDAINTY DISHES 30 absorbed out of it. Mix into it four spoonfuls of cullis, or more if you require a large quantity, and let it boil for an hour; then rub it through a tammy ; if it should be too thiok, dilute with a little broth. If plain sorrel is thought too acid, some lettuce may be mixed with it. Endive may be done in the same way. For sweetbreads, fri- candeau, etc. 123. Celery Sauce. — Choose some good stalks of celery, wash them well, but do not let them soak, in water; pare instead of scrape any parts that may require it; cut it into small pieces and boil in a little water till quite tender. Strain off the water and simmer it for a few minutes, with the addi- tion of half a pint of cream, a small piece of butter rolled in flour, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Be careful that your fire is not too hot, or the cream will burn, and stir it all the time it is on gently. Good for boiled poultry and game. 124. Tarragon Sauce.—Chop a handful of the green leaves of tar- ragon ; boil them for five minutes in a little water ; add half a pint of bechamel. Season with salt and cayenne. For boiled fowl, fillets of chicken, etc. 125. Curry Sauce. — Peel and cut two good-sized onions in slices, an apple and a carrot in dice, and an ounce of bacon. Put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter; let them stew gently five or six minutes ; add three tablespoonfuls of flour, a large one of . curry- powder. Moisten with a pint and a half of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and one of sugar. Boil till rather thick, pass through a sieve, and it is ready to use as desired. 126. Sauce for a Steak.—Take equal parts of red wine and ketchup, a small piece of butter, and a little pepper, with a teaspoonful of shallot vinegar ; stir together in a small saucepan on the fire, and pour it very hot over the steak. It is also good with mutton-chops. 127. Sauce h la Tripe.—Peel and cut six onions in slices; put them in a stew-pan with ten ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, and half a one of pepper. Set it on a slow fire to simmer till it becomes a pulp, stirring now and then to prevent its getting brown ; add a tablespoonful of flour, a pint of milk, and boil till it is rather thicker than melted butter. For eggs, etc. 128. Sauce for Veal Cutlets, etc.—Put in a pint saucepan two yolks of eggs, | pound of butter, a quarter teaspoonful of salt, half that of pepper, and the juice of a small lemon. Set it on the fire, and stir round quickly till it forms a rich thick sauce; two minutes should be enough to do it. If too thick, add a few drops of milk. N 129. Mushroom Gravy.—Clean your mushrooms carefully; put them into a stew-pan with a piece either of bacon or butter; brown them over a stove till they stick to the bottom of the pan, then put in a little flour, and let that also brown ; add a pint of broth, let it boil for two minutes, take it off the fire, and season with the squeeze of a lemon and a little salt. 130. Horseradish Sauce.— Grate a stalk of horseradish very fine ; to each tablespoonful of this add a teaspoonful of mustard, one of white sugar, and a little salt; add vinegar, a teaspoonful at a time, working it well till it comesSAUCES 31 to a proper consistency. The yolk of a hard-boiled egg worked in is considered an improvement by some cooks. For roast beef. 131. Sauce App^tissante.— Mustard one large spoonful, a tablespoonful of sugar worked into it; two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce; a teaspoonful of shallot, elder and chili vinegars, and a tablespoonful of claret or port wine. French mustard may be added or other vinegars, or the proportion of each varied to taste. Put the whole in a silver dish over a lamp. Put in your shoes of meat of any kind, or hot or cold game ; let it cook till very hot. This is excellent, and will revive and stimulate the most jaded appetite. 132. Sauce for a Grill.—Half a pint of gravy, one ounce of butter, well rubbed together with a table- spoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, two teaspoon- fuls of lemon-juice, one of made mustard, one of capers, half a one of whole black pepper, a very little grated lemon-peel, a teaspoonful of shallot vinegar, and one of essence of anchovy, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Stir well to- gether, simmer till very hot, and pour over your grill. 133. Sauce for Venison.—To a pint of port wine add two pounds of moist sugar and a quarter of a pint of white wine vinegar. Boil it about twenty minutes. Good with stewed venison or hash. FISH SAUCES. 134. Fish Sauce without But- ter.—Simmer very gently a pint of vinegar with half a pint of soft water, an onion, half a handful of scraped horseradish, and the fol- lowing spices lightly bruised—four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a teaspoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender take it out, and chop it small, with two_ anchovies, and set the whole again on the fire to boil for a few minutes, adding a spoonful of ketchup. Have ready well beaten theyolks of three eggs; strain; then mix the liquor by degrees with them ; when well mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire ; toss the sauce to and fro from the saucepan into a basin you will hold in your hand, and shake the pan over the fire; do not let it boil. The sauce should be of the consis- tency of melted butter. 135. Lobster Sauce. — Pound the spawn and two anchovies, pour on them a little gravy, add a small bit of butter; when pounded very fine, rub it through a hair sieve, and cover it till it is wanted. Break the lobster carefully, cut all the flesh into dice, but not too small; dilute some of your pre- pared spawn in some melted butter, and if you have no anchovies to pound with it, you may now add two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, a little salt and cayenne pepper, two spoonfuls of double cream, and mix it all well before you add the meat to it. Let it simmer on the fire, taking care it does not boil. A squeeze of lemon may be added. It should look very red and smooth. 136. Oyster Sauce. — Beard three dozen good-sized oysters; put them in a stew-pan with their own liquor, six ounces of butter, and a tablespoonful of flour. Let them just boil one minute all to- gether, then add a teacupful ofDAINTY DISHES 82 cream. Season with pepper, salt, the squeeze of a lemon, and a very little cayenne. 137. Sauce for Carp.—Put half a pint of Lisbon wane in a small stew-pan, to which add a little minced parsley, thyme, and a small onion, four anchovies, the liver of the fish, two spoonfuls of vinegar and one of ketchup. Let them boil ten minutes; then put in three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pound of butter and a little flour; set it on the fire again and keep stirring till it is ready to boil; then strain it through a hair sieve. This is also good for mullets, etc. 138. Sauce Hollandaise (a real Dutch receipt).—The yolks of six eggs beat up with a very little flour and about the size of half a nutmeg of butter; add a little pepper and salt, and a blade of mace, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and four of water. Put it on the fire and stir all the time till it just begins to boil; then take it off and put in a good lump of butter; stir it well together, always going round the same way. It should never be put on the fire again, and therefore should not be made till the fish is ready to serve. All boiled fish is good with this sauce. The quantity here given is sufficient for six people. 139. Dutch Sauce.—Boil some sliced horseradish, a blade of mace, and two anchovies in some good stock ; strain, and thicken it with the yolks of four eggs well beaten and mixed. 140. Sauce h la Grillon — Put about two ounces of butter in a stew-pan to melt; then rub in a spoonful of flour ; stir it about, and add two tablespoonfuls of cream and J pint of milk; stir till quite smooth, then add about a table- spoonful of minced parsley and shallot; season with white pepper and salt; keep stirring it over the fire till quite hot, but do pot let it boil; and serve. This sauce is good for fillets of turbot, sole, or whiting; it should be of the con- sistence of thick cream. 141. Good Sauce for Fillets of Sole.—Two hard-boiled eggs, one raw yolk, and a little cream; mix very smooth with a tablespoonful of tan-agon or elder vinegar. Put it into a stew-pan, heat without boiling, season with pepper and salt, and pour over the fillets. 142. Melted Butter. — This, however simple, is rarely well done. Mix in the proportion of a tea- spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter as much as you require on a plate, then put it into a small saucepan with three table- spoonfuls of hot water or milk; boil it quick for a minute, shaidng it all the time. Another way is to cut two ounces of butter in small pieces, put it into a very clean saucepan with a large teaspoonful of flour and half a pint of milk ; hold it over the fire, and shake it round constantly the same way till it begins to simmer, then let it stand quietly and boil up. Care must be taken that the butter does not oil. The yolk of an egg is a great improvement. 143. Sauce Hollandaise.—Four tablespoonfuls of elder vinegar boiled with a little salt, a teaspoon- ful of flour, and a blade of maco. Beat up the yolks of five eggs ; cut about a quarter of a pound of butter into thin slices; put these83 SAUCES Into the hot vinegar, shake and mix well, stirring continually. It must not be put on the fire after the eggs and butter are added. 144. Sauce Italienne.—Put into a saucepan a little parsley, a shallot, some mushrooms and truffles, all minced small, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Let it stew a few minutes, and add a quarter pint of white wine and a little pepper and salt. Let all boil together slowly for half an horn-, pass it through a tammy, and add a tablespoonful of olive-oil. This is the sauoe for maqueraux k l’ltalienne, but it is excellent with other fish, 145. Sauce aux (Eufs (Fla- mande).—Put four yolks of eggs beaten, three or four slices of lemon, a little grated nutmeg, a tablespoon- ful of vinegar, and a good-sized piece of butter, into a saucepan set it on a gentle fire, stir it well, and do not let it boil. It is good with all sorts of fish. 146. Sauce for Salmon Trout. —Take a piece of ham, one onion cut in four, four cloves, a little pepper, a shallot, and a piece of butter. Put them into a saucepan, and set over a slow fire for a few minutes, then add a tablespoonful of flour and some good stock. Reduce—i.e., boil till it thickens— some red wine; add about a glass- ful to your sauce, and a small lump of sugar ; a little salt and pepper, and six anchovies, previously washed and scraped. Let your sauce boil, and pass it through a tammy. This is also good for eels. 147. Newcastle 3auce for Fish. —Take three spoonfuls of vinegar, three of strong gravy, three or four anchovies. Boil them together till reduced to one spoonful; strain it off, and add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, and one spoon- ful of ketchup. Boil all together just before you serve. 148. Sauce for Fillets of Sole. —Sweet basil, thyme, and parsley, and a shallot, all minced very fine ; add a ladle of clear gravy, a table- spoonful of white wine or vinegar, the juice of a lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot. 149. Sauce aux Capres.—Take three ladles of cullis, three large spoonfuls of capers, some parsley minced fine, the juice of two lemons, and a little minced shallot. Set it in a saucepan on the fire, and let it boil. This is good for pike, barbel, etc. 150. Sauce for Turbot or John- Dory.—A pint of good gravy, two wineglasses of Rhenish wine, two spoonfuls of oil, the juice of two lemons, an anchovy, half a shallot, a small bunch of green onions and parsley, a spoonful of cullis, pepper and salt to taste. Cover it down very close. Set it upon a slow stove to simmer gently for about an hour. Take a large ladle of cullis, and strain to it about the same quantity of the liquor the fish was boiled in ; add this to the sauoe with a large spoonful of whole capers, or minced olives, and a little minced parsley. Let it boil, and pour it boiling over the fish. 151. Beurre Noir.—Boil till it is reduced to half the quantity, half a pint of the best vinegar wdth a little salt, pepper, and half a bay- leaf. Put into a frying-pan seven 0DAINTY DISHES 84 ounces of fresh butter ; heat it on the fire till it begins to blacken; then add a few picked parsley- leaves. Let them fry for a second or two, skim the butter, let it settle for a minute, and pour it into the vinegar, after having removed the bay-leaf. For skate, etc. 152. Maltre d’Hfitel Sauce.— Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a saucepan with a good pinch of flour and a glass of milk. Let it heat, stirring it constantly ; add some finely-chopped parsley, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. 3fi0fo. 153. Whitings or Sole h la Pr6- voyante.—Cut your fish into fillets and marin4 it thus : Lay them two hours before cooking in a flat dish, and pour over them one spoonful of vinegar, one of oil, six or eight onions sliced, a few sprigs of thyme, a little parsley, and four or five bay-leaves, pepper and salt. Set the dish in a cool larder. To pre- pare the batter in which they are to be cooked, put into a basin two tablespoonfuls of flour, equal quantities of small beer and water, and one tablespoonful of oil; beat it well up, keeping it quite thin. It should be about the consistency of thick cream. "Whisk the white of a raw egg to a froth, and add it to the batter just as you are ready to use it. Have your hot lard ready ; take up the fillets of fish separately, and dab them about in the batter till they are covered with it; as they are done, drop them into the hot lard and fry of a fine golden colour. It is a good guide to know if the lard is of the proper heat, to put in a few parsley-leaves, and if they immediately crisp it is right. Tomato sauce should be served with this, but separately. 154. Whitings & l’ltalienne.— Having cleaned the whitings, lay them on a silver or metal dish with a small piece of butter, two shallots, and some parsley minced very fine; put them to cook in a moderate oven. While they are doing, pour over them a glass of white wine and one of stock. When they are nearly ready, put them carefully, so as not to break them, into a saucepan; add to the sauce a spoonful of oullis, a piece of butter, a very little essence of anchovy, and the squeeze of a lemon. Keep them on the fire a few minutes and arrange them on the dish they are to be served on. 155. Whitings as in Scotland. —Choose small, perfectly fresh fish, rub them in flour till it adheres; lay them in a frying-pan with a good bit of butter ; saut4 them very slowly. They should not be dry or coloured. Mince some parsley and green onions or chives very fine ; put them into some good broth and about two tablespoonfuls of cream; mix it well together and pour it over the whitings before they are quite finished cooking; move them about very gently, not to break them, till they are done. They are very delicate and excellent done in this way, which, though simple, requires great care. No butter should be used but what is re- quired to fry them.85 FISH 156. Fried Fillets of Whitings. —Cut about six small whitings in two from top to bottom, take the fillets, lay them to marinade for about an hour, in equal proportions of vinegar, white wine, and water ; add salt, green onions, a few blades of mace, and some whole pepper; dry them; toss them in a heap of fine flour. Have ready a pan of hot lard, and fry all together on a brisk fire. Fry some parsley crisp and green, and serve your fish upon it. They should be eaten with the following sauce : To a large spoon- ful of the best vinegar and the same quantity of water, add a little salt, some shallot and parsley minced fine, and the juice of an orange or lemon. 157. Whitings in Sauce.—Clean your fish, and lay them in salt and water. Take as much fish stock (or stock made from a fowl will do) as you require for the quantity of sauce, season it with salt, whole white pepper, two or three cloves, a blade or two of mace, and a bit of lemon-peel ; let it boil five minutes; strain and return it to the pan; thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. When it boils add some parsley and chives or green onions minced fine; let it boil a few minutes, and put in your fish. When nearly done add the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, a glass of white wine, and the squeeze of a lemon, previously well mixed with some of the sauce. Do not let it boil after this is added, but shake it well over the fire. 158. Haddocks with Brown Sauce (Scotch).—Take the largest haddocks you can get; clean them, cut off the heads, tails, belly and fins; lay them in as much small beer and vinegar (half of each) as will cover them; let them remain an hour or two. Take the trim- mings and one fish cut in pieces; put them into a saucepan with as much water as you wish sauce, two onions, a sprig of savoury, thyme, and a little lemon-peeL Boil slowly till all the substance is out of the fish ; Btrain off the stock; thicken with brown roux; add two table- spoonfuls of ketchup, a little mixed spice, some salt, and half a glass of claret. When it boils, put in your fish. If you can get oysters, add them, with some of their juice. Let it boil about ten minutes, when it will be ready to serve. 159. Fillets of Haddock k la Maltre d’HStel.—Take the two sides of a haddock off the bone; lay them in a saute-pan; boil in broth, for five minutes, a spoonful of chopped onion, parsley and mush- room ; then pour it over the fillets; add a little pepper and salt, and fry them. When done, serve under them a maitre d’hotel sauce. (See Fish Sauces.) Whitings may be done in the same way. 160. Haddocks aux Capres.— Cut a haddock into two or three pieces; set it on to boil in water with a little salt, an onion, and some parsley; let it boil half an hour ; strain it and add to the stock some beef broth. Then take a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a spoonful of flour; set it on the stove to melt, add the stock to it, and stir till it boils. Let it boil gently half an hour, skimming it all the time, then add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, two of soy, one of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and a little cayenne; strain itDAINTY DISHES 8a through a tammy into a clean saucepan, and put into it a good quantity of capers. Prepare two haddocks by boiling them for a quarter of an hour with very little water covered close on the stove. Keep them in the dish, and pour the sauce very hot over them just before serving. 161. Filets de Sole k l’Orlie.— Clean the soles and cut them en- tirely open by the back from head to tail. Make each into four neat fillets, and steep them in lemon- juice, salt, parsley, and sliced onions. Shake them occasionally in this marinade, where they ought to remain an hour. When ready to serve, drain, dip them in flour, and fry till they are firm and of a good colour. Serve under them an Italienne or tomato sauce. (See Fish Sauces.) 162. A Good Way to Dress a Turbot.—Lay the fish you are to boil in a pint of vinegar seasoned with salt, pepper, sliced onion, and a faggot of thyme, marjoram, and parsley. Leave it in an hour ; then put the fish and pickle carefully into a fish-kettle of boiling water ; add to it a few cloves, some mace, four or five anchovies, and a bit of horseradish. When done enough, take out your fish and let it drain ; be careful it is not boiled too fast, and in only just enough liquor. For the sauce take half a pint of the well-strained liquor of a quart of oysters, half a pint of white wine, the flesh of the body of a lobster, a little mixed spices, a bit of lemon-peel, and two anchovies. Let it stew about twenty minutes, then strain and add a pound of butter, and as much flour as will make it a good thickness; then put in the oysters, and the tail and claws of the lobster, previously boiled and cut in dice. Put the sauce on the stove again for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Cod and other fish are good dressed in the same way. 163. Water Souch6.—Stew two or three flounders, some parsley- leaves and roots, thirty pepper- corns, and a quart of water, till the fish are boiled to pieces; then pulp them through a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, and the perch, pike, or whatever fish you wish, and some fresh parsley-leaves and roots. Simmer till the fish is done enough. Serve in a deep dish. Thin shoes of bread-and-butter should be eaten with it. 164. Smelts aux Anchois et Oapres.—Eight large smelts are enough for a small dish. For the sauce boil a couple of anchovies in a glass of Rhenish or other white wine till they are dissolved, and strain it into a ladleful of cullis or gravy; season with a bunch of onions and parsley, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, and some pepper and salt. Put your fish in and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour. Take out the onions and parsley, and add a spoonful of capers. Make it boiling hot, and squeeze in the juice of an orange or lemon. Take out the fish very tenderly to dish. Put a little finely-minced parsley into your sauce, and pour it over them. You cannot name a fresh-water fish that is not good dressed in this way. 165. Eels k la Poulette—Turn the eels upon hot cinders till the skin is completely grilled. Wipe and scrape them. Cut off the fins iFISH 3? and skin. Out off the head and tail, and gut them. Cut in pieces of an equal length; wash and leave to blanch; scrape and clean the blood well out; put them in a stew- pan with a bit of butter and some mushrooms ; set them for a minute on the fire, and dust them with flour; then add a glass of stock and one of white wine; stir with a wooden spoon till it boils. Put to it a little parsley, two shal- lots, half a bay-leaf, one clove, salt and pepper to taste, and twenty or thirty button onions; let it simmer, and reduce; skim off the fat; thicken with two or three yolks of eggs well beaten; add the juice of a lemon, and serve. 166. Eels k la Tartare.—Pre- pare the eels as above; put the pieces in a stew-pan with slices of onions, carrots, parsley, two or three scallions out in two, a glass of white wine, salt, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a sprig of thyme. When done enough drain, and roll them in breadcrumbs ; dip in egg, roll them again in crumbs, and put them on the gridiron till well browned. Serve with sauce 4 la tartare. (See Cold Sauces.) 167. Spitchcocked Eels. — Clean them well; rub them with salt, and skin them; slit open the belly and take out the bone ; wash and dry them ; cut them in pieces about four inches long; dredge them with flour, and wipe it off so that they may be quite dry. Make a batter of melted butter thickened with yolks of eggs, a little minced parsley, sage, and a very little shallot, some pepper and salt. Roll the pieces of eel in finely-grated breadcrumbs; dip them in the batter, and roll them again ; then broil them over a clear fire of a fine light brown. If the eels are small they may be dipped and broiled whole. Serve with a remoulade, a tartare, or a Dutoh sauce. (See Sauces.) 168. A good way to Boil Tench, Perch, etc.—Clean them well and scale them, and put into the pan with a pint of water, a teaspoonful of salt, an onion sliced, three sprigs of thyme, a bay-leaf, some parsley and "celery, a little pepper, and a wineglassful of vinegar. If the fish weigh a pound, boil for half an hour, and more or less according t o their size. Serve with Dutch or other sauce. 169. Stewed Trout, Carp, or Tench.—Clean the fish very well. If large they may be cut in pieces. Rub them inside with salt and mixed spices; lay them in a stew- pan with as much good stock as will cover them, two onions, with four cloves stuck in each, some Jamaica and black peppercorns, and a bit of mace. "When the fish have stewed a few minutes, add two glasses of white wine, a boned anchovy, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne pepper. When the fish is sufficiently stewed, take it out carefully and keep it hot; thicken the sauce with some brown roux. Add a teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, skim, strain, pour over the fish, and serve. 170. Matelote of Carp or Eels, etc.—One large or two small carp, cut in seven or eight pieces. Pry them in a little butter, then add to them about a pint of red wine, a ladle of gravy, a bunch of green onions, herbs, and parsley, a few cloves, three or four bay-leaves, pepper and salt. Stew all togethor38 DAINTY DISHES gently about three-quarters of an hour. Strain it into another stew- pan, in which put as much cullis as will make up the quantity of sauce you require for your dish. Place your fish in it, with a spoonful or two of capers; an anchovy cleaned, honed, and minced fine; and the juice of a lemon. The capers may be omitted and button onions sub- stituted. Tench and eels are ex- cellent done in this way. 171. Un Brochet Farci.—Pre- pare your pike thus: Gut it with- out cutting it open, but take care it is well cleaned. Cut a notch down the back from head to tail, put the tail in the mouth, and lay it to marinade for an hour in vinegar and oil, sliced onions, parsley, and bay-leaves. For your stuffing take the udder of a leg of veal, or the kidney fat of a loin of lamb, some fat bacon cut in dice, some green onions, a mushroom or two, or truffles, parsley, salt and pepper, and a morsel of butter. Chop it all well, add the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream or milk; pound all together in a mortar, try if it is seasoned enough, if not add more. Fill the belly of the fish, close up the out in the back, egg it well over, strew breadcrumbs on it, and bake in a gentle oven. Serve with a caper sauce. (See Fish Sauces.) 172. To Fry Whitebait.—The sooner they are cooked the better. Keep them in a pan of salt and water. When you wish to cook them, lift them out with a skimmer, for they should never be handled. Put them into a cloth on which there is plenty of flour, toss them about in it till they are well coated, place them on a sieve and sift off all the flour that will come. Have ready your hot lard, and fry im- mediately from one to two minutes. Lift them out with the skimmer, drain from the frying fat, and serve them instantly. Thin shoes of brown bread and butter, cayenne and lemon, should be eaten with them. 173. To Saut6 Soles, Flounders, etc.—Clean and trim the fish, dip them in a couple of eggs previously well beaten. Put six tablespoon- fuls of olive-oil in a frying-pan, place it over the fire ; when quite hot put in the fish, let it remain five minutes, turn it over and fry the other side. Ten or twelve minutes should be sufficient to cook them. 174. Soles b la Menuisi&re.— Cut the fins off a sole, and with a knife make four incisions across it on each side, then rub well into it half a tablespoonful of salt and chopped onions, dip it in flour, and broil over a slow fire. Have ready two ounces of fresh butter, mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper, which rub over the sole, previously laid in a very hot dish without a napkin. Turn the fish over once or twice that it may be well covered. Put it into the oven for a minute, and serve very hot. 175. Soles Saut6 b la Ravigote. — Scale and wash the soles, but do not empty them; run a knife be- tween the bone and the flesh, and remove the fillets; skin them, cut them in two, put them into a saut6- pan, cover them with melted butter, and dust them over with pepper and salt; fry them on both sides over a brisk fire. When done, drain them on a sheet of white paper,FISH 89 dish them, and ponr over a sauce Ravigote A la creme. (See Sauces.) 176. Soles au Gratin.—Cut off the fins of a fine fresh sole, and make an incision in the back ; then butter a saute-pan, and put into it a teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions and a wineglassful of white wine; then place the sole in the pan, oover it with six spoonfuls of cullis, and sprinkle fine bread- crumbs over it, and stick a few small pieces of butter about it. Put it now into a moderate oven for twenty minutes or half an hour. Remove it carefully from the sautd- pan and keep it hot while you make the following sauce: Put into the saucepan four spoonfuls of stock, let it boil five minutes, stir- ring it all the time; add the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of minced parsley, one of essence of anchovies, a little sugar and cayenne pepper; beat all together, and pour it round the fish in the dish in which it is to be served, and which should be a silver one. Put it again into the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. 177. Maqueraux k l’ltalienne. —Clean the fish well, cut off the heads and tails, and put them into a saucepan to stew, with as much white wine as will cover them, a few slices of onions and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and a little nutmeg. When done enough, pour over them a sauce Italienne (see Fish Sauces), and serve. 178. Whitings h lTtalienne.— Wash, clean, and skin them; out off the tails and fins, and lay them in a marinade for four hours, made with oil, lemon-juice, slices of onion, and whole parsley-leaves. Strain them, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them of a fine golden colour—this is best done with oil. A real Italian recipe.) 179. Mackerel h la Maitre d’Hdtel.—Choose large, fresh, soft- roed mackerel; out off the fins, points of the tails and heads, and make an incision an inch deep down the back; lay them in a dish, strew salt and pepper over them, also half a pint of sweet oil, an onion cut in rings, and some whole parsley. Leave the mackerel to marind in this for about two hours, turning them over from time to time. Half an hour before serving rub a gridiron with oil, take out the fish and wipe them, sprinkle them with a little salt, and lay them an inoh apart on the gridiron over a slow fire. Do them on one side till they are of a good colour, then turn them over and do the other. Lay them on their backs for five minutes, when they will be ready to dish. When dished, open the backs with a spoon, and intro- duce a piece of butter, mixed with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and the juice of a lemon. The marin- ade may he served with the maokerel. 180. Filets de Maqueraux. — Cut the mackerel into fillets, and cook them in a frying-pan with a little butter over a slow stove. Make your sauce with a piece of butter, the yolks of two eggs beaten, a little broth, some cayenne pepper, and finely-minced fennel and parsley, salt to your taste, and the squeeze of a lemon or a Seville orange. Do not let your sauce40 DAINTY DISHES boil, but make it very hot, and pour it over the fillets. 181. Cod k la CrSme.—Put into a stew-pan a good bit of butter, half a spoonful of flour, a clove of garlic minced fine, and some whole pepper; moisten with milk or cream ; thicken your sauce on the stove. Put in the fillets of cod; heat, and serve very hot. If you wish to serve it with breadcrumbs, put in a little more butter and the yolks of three eggs. Lay the fish in the dish you mean to serve it in, with the sauce round it; cover with breadcrumbs, and put it for a minute or two in the oven, and brown it with a salamander. Cod or salmon that have been previously dressed are good in this way. 182. Salmon au Court Bouillon or au Bleu.—Having drawn and cleaned your salmon, score the sides of it pretty deep ; lay it on a napkin, and season it with salt, pepper, a few cloves, a little nut- meg, some sliced onions, chives, parsley, sliced lemon, two or three bay-leaves, and some basil. Work up a pound of butter in a little flour, and put it in the belly of the fish ; then wrap the salmon in the napkin, bind it about with a pack- thread, and put it into a fish-kettle of a size proportionate to your fish. Pour over it equal parts of wine, water, and vinegar, in quantities sufficient to boil it, and set it over a quick fire. When it is done enough, which will be in from fifteen to twenty - five minutes, according to its size, take it off, and keep it simmering over a slow stove till you are ready to serve. Then take up the salmon, take it out of the napkin, and lay it on another in the dish you intend to serve it in, and garnish it with parsley. 183. To Boil Salmon as at Ber- wick.— Cut the salmon across into small shoes, wash them twice in hard water, or pump water over them. The water must be boiling when the salmon is put in, and plenty of salt in it (as much as will float an egg). If a small salmon it will take fifteen minutes ; if a large one twenty to twenty- five. Hard water must be used in boiling. Serve in a deep dish, with some of the water the fish was boiled in poured over. 184. To Broil Salmon with a White Sauce. — Having cut the salmon in slices, melt some butter in a pan, and add a little salt to it. Bub the shoes of fish with this, and broil them on a gridiron over a slack fire. Make a white sauce as follows : Put a piece of butter and a pinch of flour into a sauce- pan, two anchovies, previously washed and boned, some capers, and a whole leek. Season with pepper, salt, and a very little nut- meg. Add a httle water and a few drops of vinegar. Keep stirring the sauce over the stove till of a proper thickness, then take out the leek, and pour it into the dish you intend to serve the salmon in. Lay the shces of broiled fish in, and serve very hot. 185. Salmon with a Brown Sauce.—Broil your shces of salmon as above. Put into a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and set it on a slow stove. When the butter is melted, put in half a spoonful of flour, and shake it about till it is brown. Then put in some good fish stock and a glass of white wine. Season with pepper,41 FISH salt an onion stuok with cloves, a bunch of herbs, and a little shred parsley. When the shoes of salmon are broiled, put them into this sauce, and let them simmer in it till the sauce is reduced enough. Then take out the fish and lay it in a dish. Add to the sauce a thickening of one or two yolks of eggs, beat up in a little vinegar. Let the sauce just come to a boil, stirring it well, and pour very hot over the salmon. 186. Saumon en Caisse.—Take two good slices of salmon; put them to marinade for an hour in a dish with as much sweet-oil as will cover them; parsley, onions, a little mushroom, and a shallot, all minced very fine ; half a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and sweet basil, re- duced almost to powder ; salt and pepper. Make a paper-case large enough to hold your two slices of salmon. Oil the paper. Put in the fish with the seasoning on it, and place it in the oven. When done enough, pour a little lemon- juice on it, and serve. 187. Salmon Collops.—Cut the salmon in thin collops. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them in a saute-pan with a little butter. Place them in a dish, and serve with the following sauce : Take a spoonful of fennel, mint, and parsley, boil them five minutes, and chop them fine. Mix with them half a pint of bechamel and a little glaze. Season with salt, a little cayenne, and the squeeze of half a lemon. Mackerel are very good done in the same way. 188. Irish Pickle for Salmon. —Equal parts of vinegar, white wine, and water. Boil it with mace, cloves, ginger, pepper, and horseradish. Take out the latter when sufficiently boiled, and pour the pickle over salmon previously boiled in strong salt and water. 189. Yorkshire Recipe to Dress Dried Salmon.—Pull some dried salmon into flakes. Have ready some hard - boiled eggs, chopped large. Put both into a pint of cream, with two ounces of butter, rubbed up with a teaspoonful of flour. Skim it and stir till it boils. Make a wall of mashed potatoes round the dish, and put the fish in the centre. 190. Baked Herrings.—Scale, wash, and dry them well in a cloth ; lay them on a board, pound Borne black pepper and cloves to- gether, and mix them with four times the quantity of salt, and rub the fish all over. Lay them straight in an earthenware dish (a deep one is best). Cover them with vinegar and a few bay-leaves. Tie strong paper over the top of the dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for about half an hour or more. They are good eaten either hot or cold, and will keep a long time if well covered. Mackerel and trout may be dressed in the same way. 191. Baked Herrings in a Crust.—Make a shape of good paste just the length and the breadth of a herring. Then lay a fresh herring, previously scaled, washed, and cleaned, in it, with a piece of butter, some minced onions, pepper and salt. Cover with paste, and put them in the oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour. They are excellent. 192. To Boil Herrings.—Scale, clean, and wash them; dry them thoroughly in a cloth, rub them well over with salt and vinegar.12 DAINTY DISHES When the water boils, put them in; about ten or twelve minutes will do them. Then take them up ; drain them well, and put them on the dish. Serve with grated horseradish, and horseradish sauce, or parsley and butter made very green. Mackerel may be boiled in the same way, and served with fennel or green gooseberry sauce. 193. Pickled Herrings, Mac- kerel, Sprats, or Smelts.—Cut two onions in thin shoes, mix with salt and pepper and a little mixed spice, two or three bay-leaves, and a small faggot of sweet herbs. Clean the fish, and cut off the fins and gills. Put a little of the onion inside them, and rub the outside with the same. Put them into a deep dish, with the onions, herbs and seasoning, half a pint of vinegar, and a gill of water. Bake in a slow oven one hour. Serve cold. They keep a long time good. 194. Fish Pie.—Clean and soale some trout, whitings, or other small fish ; out off their heads and tails ; put a few bits of butter in the bottom of a pudding-dish; lay in the fish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and a good quantity of chopped green onions and parsley; then put in another layer of fish, seasoning in the same way. When the dish is full, pour over a glass of vinegar and a little mushroom ketchup; cover the top of the dish with mashed potatoes, and put it to bake in the oven for an horn. 195. Fish Pudding. — Pound some cold fish in a mortar with a few spoonfuls of broth ; add a small lump of butter and some crumbs of bread; mix it with the yolks o* four eggs, previously well beaten, and rub it through a sieve into a basin with the whites of the eggs also well whipped; put it into a souffle-mould, and bake it in the oven. 196. Cod Pie.—Take a piece of the middle of a small cod and salt it well one night; next day wash it, season with pepper and salt and a little cayenne ; place it in a pie- dish with a few bits of butter and a little good broth; cover it with crust and bake it. Make a sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a small piece of roux, and a little grated lemon- peel ; give it one boil, raise the crust, and pour it over the fish when it is baked enough. Oysters may be added, and also minced parsley. Soles and turbots may be dressed the same way. 197. A Yarmouth Recipe to Cook Bloaters: ‘ There was never a herring spake but one, And he said, Toast my back before you toast my bone.’ 198. Rizard Haddocks.—Rub them with salt inside and out; hang them up in the open air for twenty-four horns, which is best done by running a skewer through their heads, which you support on two nails; skin them, dust them with flour, and broil over a clear fire. They are excellent for break- fast. 199. Red Herrings & la Bruxel- loise.—Take a large sheet of the thickest white paper double, of which make a case large enough to contain eight herrings; butter it well inside and out that it may not burn; then take eight of the best43 FISH herrings, cut off their heads and tails, skin them, take out the back- bone, and divide them longitu- dinally into two fillets ; place them side by side in the case, and put between each a bit of butter mixed with fine herbs, some chopped mushrooms, parsley, a little shallot and green onions minced fine, a little pepper, and just a sprinkling of olive-oil; powder them over the top with fine breadcrumbs, and lay the case on the gridiron over a very clear fire, taking every pre- caution to prevent their burning. When they are sufficiently done, which will be in about ten minutes, serve them in the case with a squeeze of lemon over them. 200. Red Herrings.—Take off their heads and tails ; divide them from end to end; take out the bone; put them on a dish, and baste with oil. When ready to serve, turn them for a minute or two on the gridiron, and send to table immediately. 201. Lobster au Gratin.—Chop a middle-sized onion and put it in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter; fry of a light brown; mix with it a small tablespoonful of flour; pour over half a pint of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of pepper, and half that of cayenne, a little sugar, a very little nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Boil a few minutes till rather thick; put in your previously boiled lobster meat cut in pieces. Let it boil up ; add the yolk of an ogg and a little cream, mix quickly; fill the shells, egg and breadcrumb them; put in an oven for ten minutes, pass a hot salamander over them, and serve. 202. Crab au Gratin (Ameri- can).—Prepare the crab as usual, lay in the empty shell a layer of the soft part, then a layer of grated American crackers or biscuit; over this lay the fleshy part of the crab, on which pour a spoonful of mush- room ketchup: add some chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Season with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne; cover all with the re- mainder of the soft part of the crab ; make it even with a knife ; egg and breadcrumb it over, or grated biscuit may be used instead of breadcrumbs; stick a few bits of butter on the top; set it in the oven for twenty minutes or half an hour, and serve very hot. 203. Partan Pie. — Pick the meat after boiling out of the crab ; clean out the shell and mix the meat with a little salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and, if too liquid, a few breadcrumbs ; add three spoon- fuls of vinegar, and put all into the shell again; strew a few bread- crumbs over, and set it before the fire or in the oven. Brown with a salamander; add a little cayenne, and serve. 204. Curry of Lobster.—Take them from the shells ; cut them in medium- sized pieces, and lay them in a saucepan with a small piece of ham, a blade of mace, cayenne pepper, and salt to your taste, four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four spoonfuls of cream. Bub smooth together two teaspoonfuls of curry- powder, a teaspoonful of flour, and a little cream. Add it to the sauce. Simmer an hour, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon before serving. 205. Curry of Cod should be made of sliced cod that has either44 DAINTY DISHES been crimped or sprinkled for a day with salt, to make it firm. Fry it with some onions in a pan till it is of a fine brown; then put it in a stew - pan with some good veal gravy, a spoonful or two of curry- powder, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and four spoonfuls of rich cream. Season to taste, with salt and cayenne. Stew it slowly till done. Serve with rice, or in a rice border. 206. Kedgeree.—Boil a break- fast-cupful of rice twenty minutes, and four eggs ten minutes. Take any kind of cooked white fish; pull it in pieces; take care there are no bones left; chop the eggs very fine; add three or four ounces of fresh butter; season with salt and cayenne pepper (fresh green minced chilies are better). Beat the whole together, and serve as hot as possible. A little chutnee sauce eaten with it is a great improve- ment. 207. Oysters Stewed (Ameri- can Way).—Take a dozen large oysters in their own liquor; let them just boil; add salt, pepper, a piece of butter the size of a nut- meg, and half a teaspoonful of chopped chervil. 208. Another American Way. —Open a dozen oysterB; put them in a small stew-pan with two grains of black pepper, a pinoh of sugar, a little salt butter, and cayenne. Set them on the stove for three or four minutes; give them just a slight boil, and put in a bit of butter the size of a walnut, which you have previously mixed with half a teaspoonful of flour. Shake the stew-pan round till it is melted; put the pan again on the fire to simmer for a minute or two. Serve very hot on toast. Any quantity may be done in the same way. A little cream is an improvement. 209. Oysters Stewed in their own Juice (Scotch).—This is an excellent method of dressing them. Take the largest you can get; wash them clean through their own juice; lay them close together in a frying-pan; sprinkle them with a little salt. Do not put one above another. Make them a fine brown on both sides. If one panful is not sufficient, do off more. When they are all done, pour some of their liquor into the pan, mixing it with any that may be left from their cooking. Let it boil a minute or two. Pour it over the oysters, and serve very hot. 210. To Pot Char or Trout.— Three teaspoonfuls of black pepper and allspice mixed, two of mace, one each of cloves and nutmeg. Keep them well corked up in a small bottle; when used, add a little salt. This is a sufficient quantity for fourteen pounds of fish. Cut open the fish; clean them well with a dry cloth, but do not wash. Remove the heads, tails, fins, and backbone ; then rub the spices well into them. Put them with the spices into a baking dish ; cover well with fresh butter, and place the dish in a slow oven, to remain till the bones are dis- solved, which will take about five hours. Drain off the butter, and put the fish into pots; press it down firmly, and pour a thin layer of fresh butter over the top. The trout should be red-fleshed, and not exceeding three-quarters of a pound in weight. Other fish, such as eels, sprats, eto., or shrimps and prawns, may be done in the sameMEAT, POULTRY, GAME 45 way. The spices must all be ground. 211. Method of Kippering Salmon.—The largest fish are best. To twenty pounds of salmon put one and a half pounds of salt, one pound of raw sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Mix all well together. Wash the fish well in salt and water; split it up the back, cut off the head, and take out the back- bone. Rub it well inside with the mixture ; lay it in a deep dish with the inside uppermost; leave it in the pickle twenty-four hours; then put a heavy weight on it; press it for two days, or three if a large fish. Take it out of the pickle and hang it to dry in the sun. flDeat, poultry (Same. 212. Salt Beef.—To salt beef for immediate use, common salt, pre- viously well dried at the fire, is better than any other pickle. The kernels should be carefully ex- tracted, then sprinkle the meat well with salt, and six hours after- wards hang it up to drain. After it has drained, rub it thoroughly in every part with salt, and lay it in a salting-tub. Cover it over with a cloth saturated with the brine, and then with the cover, which should fit close to the tub. It must be turned and rubbed every day with the brine. A round of beef, of twenty-five pounds’ weight, will require one and a half pounds of salt, to be all rubbed in at first. Turned and rubbed every day, if not wished very salt, it may be eaten in four or five days. If you wish it red, rub it first with salt- petre, in the proportion of half an ounce and the same quantity of moist sugar to one pound of common salt. 213. Baked Round of Beef.— If about fifteen pounds, hang it two or three days; then rub in, being previously well pounded together, three ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of moist sugar, a quarter of an ounce each of black pepper, all- spice, cloves, and mace, and a nut- meg grated, some minced sweet and savoury herbs, and three quarters of a pound of common salt. The bone should be taken out, and it should be turned and rubbed every day for a fortnight. When you dress it, put it into a pan with a quart of water; cover the meat with three pounds of suet, shredded rather thick, and an ounce or two minced small; then cover the whole with a flour crust to the brim of the pan, and bake in a moderate oven six hours. 214. To Boil Beef.—The slower it is done the better; if boiled too quick at first, no art afterwards can make it tender. Half a round, of about fifteen pounds’ weight, will take about three hours. Put plenty of cold water in with it, and carefully remove the Bourn as it rises. Let it boil till no more comes, then set the boiler on one side of the fire, and keep it simmer- ing slowly till done. 215. Sportsman’s Beef.—Take a large round of beef, three ounces and a half of saltpetre, one ounceDAINTY DISHES 46 of allspice, and a good pinch of cayenne pepper : rub it well in, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Then rub in thoroughly several handfuls of salt. Put it by for ten days, turning and rubbing in the salt every day. Then put it into a pan, with four pounds of shred beef-suet, dredge it lightly with flour, and bake in a slow oven for four or five hours, according to the Bize. This will keep good in moderate weather as long as any remains of it. 216. Beef Bouilli.—Take the short ribs of a breast of beef, and put them on to stew with a few turnips, carrots, onions, a head of celery, a clove of garlic, a few slices of leg of beef, a small piece of mutton or veal, and a little spice. Cover it with boiling water, and let it simmer slowly four or five hours, till the meat is as tender as possible. For sauce, take some cullis or good rich gravy, a dessert- spoonful of chili vinegar, four or five gherkins minced fine, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a little soy, and pepper and salt to your taste. Simmer all together a few minutes. When ready to serve, take the top skin of the bouilli, glaze it with a dark-brown glazing, and serve the sauce under the meat. 217. Collared Beef.—Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat. Lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre; turn and rub it every day for a week, keeping it in a cool place. Then remove all bone and gristle, and the skin of the inside part, and cover it with the following season- ing : Cut small a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, pepper, salt and allspice (and, if liked, a little garlic). Boll the meat up as tight as pos- sible, and bind it first with a cloth and then with tape or packthread. Put the beef on in plenty of water, and let it boil gently seven or eight hours. When done, put a heavy weight on while it is hot, without undoing the cloth, etc. It will, when cold, be of an oval shape. It should then be glazed on the outside. 218. Dutch Beef.—Take a lean piece of beef, rub it well with treacle or brown sugar; let it lie three days, turning and rubbing it often, then wipe it; salt it with salt and saltpetre beaten fine to- gether, the salt having the largest proportion; rub it well in every day for a fortnight, roll it tight in a coarse doth, and press it under a heavy weight. Hang it to dry in wood smoke, turning it upside down every day; when smoked enough, bod it in pump-water and press it. To be eaten cold, cut, or grated. 219. An Excellent Mode of Dressing Beef to eat Cold.— Hang three ribs of beef three or four days ; take out the bones and rub it well with salt, a little salt- petre, and bay salt, brown sugar, pepper, cloves, mace and allspice, in fine powder. Let it lie for a fortnight, turning and rubbing it every day; then put it into a baking-pan, and put some butter or suet on it; cover it with a coarse crust, and bake slowly till as tender as possible. Tongues to eat cold are excellent done in the same way. 220. Collared Ox Cheeks.—The cheeks must be well washed andMEAT, POULTRY, GAME 47 wiped dry. Salt them well with common salt for twenty-four hours; take off the salt and lay them in a pan with the following mixture over them: One ounce of salt- petre, the same of salprunella and of brown sugar. Let it remain three days, then take it off and stew the cheeks for three hours till the bones will draw out. Chop it while warm into small pieces; season it well with chopped herbs, pepper and salt; put it into a tin mould, which fill till it comes a little above the top ; put the cover on with heavy weights over it, and press it down close. When quite cold turn it out, and it is ready to eat. 221. BeefenSaucissons.—Take two pieces of beef about double the size of your hand, and one finger thick; beat them to make them flat, trim them even; take the parings and another bit of beef and mince very fine together with some parsley, a few sweet basil leaves, some small onions, two shallots, some mushrooms, salt, and whole pepper. Mix this forcemeat with four yolks of eggs, spread it upon the slices of beef, roll them up in the form of sausages, tie them and put them into a stew-pan on a slow fire, with a little broth, a glass of white wine, a little salt, some pepper, an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a carrot, and a parsnip. When well stewed pass the sauce through a sieve, take off the fat, reduce it till it is thick and rich. Put in the beef again, just bring it to a boil, and serve. It is good to eat cold. 222. Beef en PapilloteB. — Take a rib of beef, shorten and trim it bo that it is a proper size for your dish. Put it on a gentle fire with a pint of broth, a little salt, and whole pepper; reduce it over a very gentle fire till it begins to stick to the beef; then put it in a marinade of oil, parsley, a very little sweet basil, small onions, one shallot, and some mushrooms, all minced very fine. Let it he an hour, then put the beef and marinade into a large sheet of white paper ; plait it up all round the edge so that it may be entirely covered ; oil the paper on the outside ; place it on a gridiron with another piece of oiled paper under it; broil on both sides over a gentle fire, and serve in the paper. 223. Shoulder of Mutton Mari- nade.—Lay it for three days in a quart of vinegar, with four onions sliced, a handful of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of mace and cloves pounded ; lard it with bacon rolled in Jamaica pepper ; put it to bake with some of the liquor round it. When done, serve with a rich gravy. 224. Leg of Mutton h la Peri- gord. — Take some truffles and bacon, cut them into pieces fit for larding, roll them in a little salt, spice, an onion, and a clove of garlic minced and well mixed to- gether ; then lard the mutton with the bacon and truffles, wrap it in a paper, and keep it from the air for two days that it may acquire a good flavour of truffles. Stew it on a gentle fire with some shoes of veal and bacon in its own gravy. When done enough, skim the sauce, add a good spoonful of cullis, and serve. 225. To Make a Haunch of Mutton eat like Venison.—Mix two ounces of bay salt with half a pound of brown sugar ; rub it well48 DAINTY DISHES into the mutton, which should be placed in a deep dish for four days, and basted three or four times a day with the liquor that drains from it; then wipe it quite dry, and rub in a quarter of a pound more sugar mixed with a little common salt, and hang it up haunch downwards ; wipe it daily till it is used. In winter it should be kept three weeks, and roasted in paste like venison. Serve with currant jelly. 226. Roast Leg of Mutton.— Cover it well with water, and bring it gradually to a boil; let it simmer gently for half an horn*, then lift it out and put it immediately on the spit; roast it an horn- and a quarter or a half, according to its size. Dressed in this way it is particu- larly juicy and tender, but there must be no delay in putting it on the spit after it is taken out of the water. It may be garnished with roasted tomatoes or potatoes, or served with haricots & la Bretonne round it. 227. To Dress Roedeer or Hare. —Take the two haunches and the back; take off the hard skin, lard the upper sides of the haunches with good fat bacon ; then put into a pint of vinegar some carrots, turnips, and onions sliced, parsley minced, pepper and salt. Mix all together, and boil for ten minutes. When it is cold, lay the meat in a dish, and pour the pickle over it. Let it remain in the pickle for four days, turning it every day, and rubbing it well into the meat. When roasted, butter a large sheet of paper and tie it over the larded side. Three quarters of an hour is sufficient, with a good fire, to roast the haunches. For sauce, take a little of the pickle, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful of currant jelly, and a little good gravy. Boil all up together, and serve either round or in a sauceboat. 228. Cutlets of Mutton h la Mariniere.—Cut your cutlets thick and short, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter about the size of half an egg ; pass them on the fire till a little browned; wet them with a glass of white wine, the same quantity of broth; add a dozen little white onions; stew over a gentle fire for half an hour ; then add a pound of bacon, a carrot and a parsnip, a small piece of savoury, and parsley, all minced, a little salt and pepper, and a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Stew till the cutlets are very tender and the sauce reduced. Lay the cutlets on the dish, the sauce and onions round, and the minced bacon and roots over them. 229. Cotelettes de Mouton en Robe de Chambre.— Stew them with broth, a very little salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs, quite slowly. When done tender, skim off the fat, pass the broth through a sieve, set it on the fire again, and reduce to a glaze. Glaze your cutlets, and leave them to cool. Take a piece of veal, some beef-suet, two eggs, a little salt and pepper, parsley, onions and mushrooms. Mash all fine together, moisten with a little cream; roll each cutlet in this forcemeat, cover them with bread- crumbs, lay them on a baking-tin, and place them in the oven till they are of a fine brown ; the oven should not be too hot Serve with shallot gravy or other clear sauce. 230. Beef-Steaks or Mutton- Chops.—It is absolutely necessary,49 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME to mate them good, that they should be cooked over a sharp red fire. The gridiron should be on the fire about two minutes before the chop or steak is laid on. They should be beaten a little before- hand, to set the meat and prevent it from shrinking, well seasoned with pepper and salt, and turned often to keep the gravy in the centre. Ten minutes will do a steak of half a pound weight, and about six minutes a chop. 231. Mutton or Lamb Chops au Feu.—Cut them rather thin, mince an onion and some parsley leaves very fine, add some oil; rub the chops well with this, leave them to soak in it two hours, season with pepper and salt. Broil over a sharp fire, and serve immediately. 232. Relishing Cutlets or Steaks.—Chop fine a tablespoon- ful of green pickled chilies, mix with two ounces of butter a little mustard and a spoonful of grated horse- radish. The cutlets or steaks should be cut rather thick. Season them with salt, and spread the above mixture on both sides. Put them on a gridiron over a sharp fire, turn them three or four times. Serve on a very hot dish, with the juice of half a lemon and a dessert- spoonful of walnut ketchup. 233. Lamb Chops h la Bou- lang&re. — Cut and trim neatly cutlets enough for a small entrde— say ten or twelve—season highly with salt and pepper and a little cayenne, dip them gently in olive- oil and then in flour. Broil them over a slow fire. While they are doing, put a gill of cream in a stew-pan, set it on the fire, and, when boiling, add two ounces of freBh butter, a tablespoonful of chopped chervil, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt; stir quickly till it forms a nice smooth sauce; pour it over the cutlets when done, and serve quickly. Fillets of veal or rabbits are good done in this way. 234. Mutton Cutlets aux Con- combres.—Take a neck of mutton, cut it into chops, and trim them nicely. Chop some parsley and shallot very fine, and put them in a little melted butter ; dip the chops in this and then into breadcrumbs. Put them in the frying-pan, and fry of a fine light brown. Prepare two cucumbers by cutting them in four quarters, removing all the seeds; cut them in oval shapes about an inch long; boil them in half vinegar and water till tender. Make a sauce with the trimmings of the cutlets, some minced shallot and herbs ; put the cucumbers into the sauce and make them very hot. Serve in the centre of the dish with the cutlets arranged round. 235. Irish Stew.—Four pounds of potatoes, and a pound and a half of mutton, six or seven good-sized onions, and one carrot. Cut the meat in moderate-sized pieces, if the breast or scrag end of the neck, or in cutlets. Add one pint of water; stew very slowly till the potatoes are nearly done to a pulp; a few more potatoes should be added about half an hour before it is ready to serve. Season with pepper and salt. This is enough for six or seven persons. 236. Lamb Chops h l’Africaine. —Cut a lamb chop or outlet, broil over a very sharp fire, turning it continually; when nearly done season highly with salt and popper, and rub a spoonful of chutnee on DDAINTY DISHES 50 both sides of each cutlet, put them again on the gridiron; broil for another minute, and serve. 237. Lamb’s Head Stove.. — Wash and trim the head carefully, then put it on to stew in some good stock. When nearly done enough add a good quantity of spinach well washed and coarsely chopped; thicken the sauce with a little flour, and season with pepper and salt. It will take rather more than an hour to stew; two or three young onions minced and added is an improvement. Serve all to- gether in a deep dish. 238. Lamb’s Head and Fry.— Skin the head and split it, take out the tongue and brains, wash and clean it, and the liver, heart, and lights, and lay the whole to soak in boiling water for half an hour; then put on the head to boil; it will require a little more than three hours. While it is boiling take the fry and mince it very small, put it on to stew in a quart of veal broth; add some minced parsley, a little ketchup, a spoonful of cream, a small piece of butter rolled in flour, and season with pepper and salt. When the head is sufficiently boiled, brush it over with the yolk of an egg; sprinkle it with chopped herbs and breadcrumbs, baste it with butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven or before the fire. Keep the mince hot while it is browning, then lay it in the dish with the head over, and garnish with the brains, and the tongue cut in half lengthways. They should be separately stewed in broth, and a little lemon-juice squeezed over the brains just before serving. 239. Queues de Mouton.—Take five mutton tails, put them on a gentle fire with some broth, a bunch of parsley and small onions, half a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, thyme and sweet basil, two cloves, and a little pepper and salt; when tho- roughly done, take them out to drain and cool. Take six ounces of rice, wash it in warm water, strain what broth may be left from stewing the tails ; if not enough, add a little more broth, put in the rice, and stew till it is quite tender; when ready, make a foundation of the rice on the dish you mean to serve it in, lay the mutton tails quite separate on the rice, cover them over with the remainder of the rice; glaze the outside with an egg, put the dish into the oven with a tin cover over till the rice forms a crust, tilt the dish that any grease may drain off. Wipe the dish clean and serve very hot. 240. Langues de Mouton.— Blanch them, cut them longitu- dinally through the middle, and put them on the gridiron over a clear fire. When done enough, serve with a sauce piquante. (See Sauces.) 241. Eminc6 of Mouton. — Mince the meat of an uncooked loin of mutton with half a pound of the fat; add a spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, two large onions cut in dice, a pint of green peas, four cucumbers cut in dice, a lettuce, a sprig of thyme, and a quarter of a pound of butter, with four spoonfuls of water; let all stew together for three hours, and serve with rice round. Celery or asparagus may be used instead of peas. 242. Hashed Venison or Mutton.—For gravy boil a part of the bone and trimmings of aMEAT, POULTRY, GAME 51 cold haunch in a little water, season with peppercorns and salt. Strain and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour; add a glass of port wine, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and one of currant jelly. When hot, add the venison cut in thin shoes, heat it thoroughly, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Cold haunch of mutton may be dressed in the same way. 243. Hashed Mutton k la Nell Gwynne.—Half a pint of mush- room ketchup, half a pint of white wine vinegar, half a dozen shallots sliced fine and stewed for two hours in this liquor ; then put in a pound of previously parboiled collops of mutton, and stew gently till ready to serve. 244. Beef a la Vinaigrette.— Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, see that some fat is with it. Stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf. Season it with pepper and three cloves pounded ; let it stew till the liquor is nearly wasted, turning it occa- sionally. Strain off what may be left, to which add some vinegar, and when the beef has become cold serve it with it for sauce. 245. Hashed Mutton.—Rub a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, then add as much more butter as will make it the consis- tence of good cream, put in some chopped onions, let them stew till tender. Cut three slices of mutton lean and fat about an inch in size, put them into the sauce with some pepper and salt, a spoonful of ketchup or Harvey, some chopped gherkins, or hot pickles. Make very hot and serve. 246. Tourte de CStelettes de Mouton h la Perigord.—Take a neck of mutton, cut into short thick cutlets, and arrange them in your pie dish, or in a raised crust. Take as many middle-sized truffles as cutlets, peel and place between each cutlet; season with a little salt and mixed spices, cover it with thin slices of bacon, and over that a layer of good butter about the thickness of a shilling, cover the whole in with pie crust, and bake for three hours. When done, raise the top of your crust and pour in a glass of wine warmed, with two tablespoonfuls of cullis. Skim off any grease with a spoon, and re- place the crust. 247. Perdreaux au Celery Blanc. — Take three partridges, make a forcemeat of the livers, and stuff them with it; blanch them in a hot marinade for a few minutes. Spit them across, lay on them slices of bacon, cover them with paper, and roast them gently about twenty-five minutes. For your sauce take the white part of six or eight heads of celery, split them two or three times, and cut in pieces about an inch long, blanch them a few minutes in water, then boil them in good broth for an hour ; put in a bit of butter mixed with flour, a liaison of four or five eggs beaten up with some cream, a little pepper and salt; pour it into the sauce when it is boiling hot; move it about for a minute on the stove, squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Take the partridges off the spit, and serve with this sauce over them. It is also excellent with boiled partridges, chicken, or pheasant.DAINTY DISHES 52 248. Poulets aux Petits Pois. —Cut your chickens into pieces, put them into a stew-pan, with a pint of green peas, a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley, and some small onions; set the pan for a minute or two on the fire, then add a good pinch of flour, and moisten suffi- ciently with half broth, half gravy. Stew slowly till quite tender and reduced to the proper quantity. Just before serving, season with a small quantity of salt and a little sugar. 249. Fricassee of Chicken.— Parboil your chickens, skin them, cut them in pieces, and put them in a stew-pan with some strong broth, whole pepper, a blade of mace, a little salt, two anchovies, and a green onion. When nearly done, add half a pint of cream, a very little bit of butter mixed very smoothly in flour, and a teaspoon- ful of mushroom powder. Stir over the fire till it thickens. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix them in carefully, add the juice of an orange or lemon, strain it off, dish the chicken, and pour the sauce over. 250. Another Fricassee.—Skin your chickens, cut off the shanks and pinion bones, separate the legs, wings, and breast, break the leg bones with a rolling-pin, remove the bones, put all the flesh into water, and blanch over a stove. When this is done, put them again into cold water. When they have soaked a little while, take out and drain them, put them into a stew- pan, with a little melted bacon, a small piece of fresh butter, a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and some mushrooms. Season with salt and pepper. Toss all this up together over a stove, then moisten with half broth, half water, and set it over a gentle fire. Beat up the yolks of four eggs in cream, and mix in it a little shred parsley, peas, or asparagus-tops, or use it plain. When the liquor is dimin- ished enough, thicken it with the eggs and cream without removing it from the stove, and serve when sufficiently done. 251. Poulets h l’Estragon.— Boil for a quarter of an hour a large pinch of tarragon-leaves, throw them into cold water, press and hash them. Mix about a quarter of this with the chickens’ livers minced, a little salt and pepper, and a bit of butter. Put this kind of forcemeat inside the chickens, cover the breasts with a slice of fat bacon or lard, and roast them in paper about twenty-five to thirty minutes. Put the rest of the hashed tarragon into a stew-pan, with a bit of butter the size of a large walnut rubbed in a little flour, two yolks of eggs, half a glass of gravy, two spoonfuls of good broth, a few drops of vinegar, some whole pepper, and salt. Thicken your sauce on the fire without letting it boil, lest the eggs should turn. Take the paper and bacon off your chickens, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce hot over them. 252. Capilotade of Chicken.— Cut up two chickens that have been either roasted or boiled previously, skin them, and put them into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, set them on the fire for a few minutes, then pour a brown Italienne over (see Sauces), and let them simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire. TakeMEAT, POULTRY, GAME 53 care the sauce does not stick to the pan. Add to the sauce either capers or minced gherkins. Fry some thin slices of bread of a light- brown, glaze ; then arrange them round the dish, with the chicken in the centre, and pour the sauce over. 253. Matelotte de Petits Pou- lets.—Cut up your chickens as for a fricassee, legs and wings, pinions, and the breasts and backs, into two, put them into boiling water on the fire for two or three minutes, then place them in a stew-pan with a slice or two of ham, a ladleful of mixed veal gravy and cullis, a bunch of onions and parsley, a little sweet basil, half a shallot, some pepper and salt; stew all together gently for an hour. Then strain the sauce, add some more cullis, a few button mushrooms or sliced truffles, a squeeze of orange or lemou-juice; dish the chicken, pour the sauce over and serve. This may be varied with peas or aspara- gus tops, instead of mushrooms or truffles. 254. Cold Minced Chicken aux Fines Herbes.—Mince some mush- rooms and sweet herbs, add mace, pepper, lemon zest, and a little salt, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter. Stew them together till the whole are well cooked, then remove the herbs; add the white meat of a cold chicken previously minced, some finely minced chervil and parsley, and the squeeze of a lemon. Just heat it thoroughly and serve with fried croustades of bread round it. 255. To Dress Cold Chicken, Veal, or Game.—Cut them up and put them into a good well-seasoned stock, let it come to a boil, and then set it to simmer for half an hour ; add a small piece of butter rubbed in flour, a boned anchovy, a minced onion, and a small pieoe of shallot, a little salt and cayenne, and a tablespoonful of port wine. Let it stew together about ten minuteslonger ; shake it frequently and it will be ready to serve. 256. For an Aspic of Fillets of Chicken.—First put a little aspio into the mould to acquire a sub- stance. When it is set cut some shapes of hard-boiled yolks and whites of eggs, truffles, gherkins, and beetroot; when you have arranged all these decorations, pour in some liquid aspic gently to settle all together, and put it in the mould on the ice to freeze; then arrange the fillets of chicken previ- ously cooked, skinned, and cut in good shape, neatly all round, pour in as much more aspic as will set the chicken, then put round and over the chicken some mayonnaise or Beurre de Montpellier, over thia as much oold aspic as will cover it, otherwise the butter or sauce would dilute in the jelly and cause it to look muddy. Fill the mould now with the liquid aspic as full as it will hold and let it freeze. When ready to serve, dip a cloth in hot water, wrap it round the outside of the mould, which will loosen it, and turn it out on the dish. 257. L’Aspic for the Above.— Take a handful of aromatic herbs, such as burnet, chervil, and tarra- gon, boil them in white vinegar; when the vinegar is well flavoured pour into the stew-pan some re- duced consommd of fowl. Season with salt and pepper and a little spice, then break the whites of four eggs into a pan, and whisk themDAINTY DISHES 54 well, pour the aspic on them, and put the whole again in a stew-pan on the fire ; keep beating and stir- ring till the jelly gets white ; it is then very near boiling ; put it on the corner of the stove with a cover over it and a little fire on the top; when quite clear and bright strain it through a jelly-bag or sieve, and it is ready to use when wanted. 258. Another Aspic.— Put a knuckle of veal, a small part of a knuckle of ham, and some trim- mings of fowl or game into a small stock-pot, with onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt; pour over half a bottle of white wine and some good broth ; let it boil gently for four hours, then skim off all the fat and strain it through a silk sieve ; put it into a stew-pan with two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, four whites of eggs, and if you think it requires it, some more pepper and salt. Stew it on the fire till it becomes very white, then set it on one side with a little fire over the cover ; when you find it clear drain it through a jelly-bag. If this is re- quired for garnishing raised pies or galantine, the vinegar may be omitted. 259. Mayonnaise de Perdreaux. — Boast three partridges, leave them to cool, cut them in pieces, put them in a pan with four shal- lots, a little tarragon and burnet minced, four spoonfuls of oil, three large ones of broken aspic jelly, a little pepper and salt, and a large spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Mix all well together, dish the part- ridges, putting the breasts and backs at the bottom, and the other pieces round, cover with a good mayonnaise (see Sauces), and gar- nish with aspic jelly, or Beurre de Montpellier. Chicken can be done the same. 260. Scollops of Fowl k l’Essence de Concombres.—Take the white meat of three fowls, and cut it into scollops the size of a half-crown piece, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them on both sides over a brisk fire for a few minutes, taking care they do not brown. Cut four or five cucumbers into slices, the same shape and size; put them into a basin with a little salt and half a glass of vinegar, let them soak in this one hour, then drain them on a napkin, and put them into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter; let them fry a little without colouring, sprinkle a spoon- ful of flour over them, add suf- ficient broth to cover them well, a small bit of sugar, and a bundle of parsley and green onions. When the cucumbers are sufficiently done, lay them on a dish covered over till you want them. Take the parings, fry them in a stew-pan with a little butter, add the sauce in which you have boiled the cucumbers, skim off all the butter and fat, reduce the sauce till it is quite thick, add all the juice that may have escaped from the cucum- bers in stewing them, and three spoonfuls of bechamel; rub the whole through a tammy. Now put into the same the scollops of chicken and the cucumbers, add a little salt, and, if the sauce is too thick, a spoonful of double cream. Heat all thoroughly, and serve, garnished with small forms of light pastry round the dish. 261. Turkey aux TruffesPut55 MEAT; POULTRY, two dozen peeled truffles into godi- veau or forcemeat, and fill the breast of the turkey ; let it remain in for a week before it is roasted ; serve with sauce aux t ruffes. Pheasants or fowl may be done in the same way. 262. Une Dinde Rotie Parfaite. —Cover the turkey with slices of bacon and white paper ; just before it is quite done take off both bacon and paper, that it may get a nice brown. Stuff it with fifty chest- nuts, a little sausage-meat, and half a pound of truffles. A turkey re- quires about forty-five minutes to roast. 263. Turkey Legs. — Take a sweetbread, clean and scald it, cut it in square pieces the size of dice, cut some mushrooms as nearly as possible the same shape; put them into a saucepan, with some grated bacon, parsley, small onions, shallot, and sweet basil, minced fine, some coarse pepper, and the yolks of two eggs ; shake them well together. Take two raw turkey legs, remove the bones, leaving just a little bit at the end for show. Stuff the legs with the sweetbread, etc.; sew them up, so that nothing can come out. Put them to stew in a glass of good broth, one of white wine; add a bunch of parsley and small onions, and a little salt. Cover with slices of bacon, and stew over a gentle fire. When done, and but little sauce remains, skim it, take off the bacon and the bunch of parsley, add two spoonfuls of cullis, and thicken with yolk of an egg, and serve just before sending to table. Squeeze over the legs a little orange-juice. 261 Pigeons k la Tartare.— Singe your pigeons, truss them as for boiling, flatten them with a cleaver on the dresser as thin as you can without breaking the skin of the breast or back; season them with pepper and salt, dip them in melted butter, and dredge them with grated breadcrumbs, Broil them on a gridiron half an hour before you want them, turn- ing them often, and broiling them thoroughly. Make the sauce as follows: Mince a spoonful of parsley very fine, a shallot or a piece of onion, two spoonfuls of pickles, and a boned anchovy; mince all separately very fine, then squeeze over them the juice of a lemon, add half a spoonful of water, six spoonfuls of oil, and a little pepper; mix all these in- gredients together, and just as you are going to serve, rub in a spoonful of mustard. Put the sauce into the dish and the pigeons over it, and serve. 265. Poulets k la Tartare.— Cut the chicken in half, singe it over the fire, marinade it with a little melted butter, one clove of garlic, two or three small onions, some parsley and mushrooms, all hashed together, a little pepper and salt. Cover it with breadcrumbs, and boil over a sharp fire. Serve with a tartare or piquante sauce (see Sauces). Grouse is excellent dressed in the same way. 266. To Stew Old Partridges. —Put them in a stew-pan, with a little salt, pepper, a bunch of pars- ley, small onions, thyme, two bay- leaves, some sweet basil, a clove of garlic, and as much broth as will cover them. Stew gently over a slow fire till all the broth is ex-DAINTY DISHES hausted; let them brown just a little, and serve with a sauce poiv- rade (see Sauces). 267. Salmi of Grouse or Part- ridge.—Cut them in joints, put the trimmings with some stock into a stew-pan, boil it an hour, strain and skim off the fat, thicken with brown roux, put in a little onion and shallot minced fine, put it on to boil again. A little before serv- ing put in the game ; season with salt and pepper, and make it very hot; if for boiled duck add a glass of port wine, and the squeeze of a lemon. 268. Fillets of Turkey.—Cut the breast of a turkey in collops, put some broth of veal into a stew- pan, with an onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it boil rather more than half an hour; strain and thicken it with white roux and a little cream; beat up the collops in this ; add salt and pepper, and the squeeze of a lemon. A little finely- minced parsley may be added. 269. Jugged Hare. — Cut the hare in moderate-sized pieces, wash it and put it into a stone jar, just large enough to hold it, with a bunch of sweet herbs, some lemon- peel, a large onion with five cloves stuck in it, a quarter of a pint of port or claret wine, and the juice of a lemon; tie the top of the jar down with a bladder, so that no steam may escape; put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water suf- ficiently deep to cover it; keep the water boiling nearly three hours. Take it out, strain the gravy from the fat, and thicken it with flour and give it a boil up; lay the hare on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve with currant jelly. 270. Canard a la Eearnoise.— Stew a duck in a little broth, half a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley, thyme, sweet basil, and small onions, two bay-leaves, and two cloves. Put into another stew- pan seven or eight large onions cut in slices and a bit of butter ; pass them on the fire, turning often till they get a colour; then add a good pinch of flour; moisten with the liquor the duck was stewed in; stew the onions and reduce the sauce ; skim off the fat, and add a squeeze of lemon or a few drops of vinegar, pour it over the duck, and serve. 271. Canard ft Pur6o Verte.— Take rather more than a pint of green peas, boil them in a little broth, andrub them smooth through a sieve ; stew a duck in broth, with salt, whole pepper, and a clove of garlic, some small onions, parsley, thyme, basil, and bay - leaves. "When done enough, pass the sauce through a sieve, and add it to the pur^e of peas ; reduce the whole to a good consistency, about that of thick cream. Serve the duck with the puree over it. 272. Ragout of Duck.—Half- roast the duck and cut it into joints, put it into a stew-pan with a pint and a half of broth, a large onion with four cloves stuck in it, a little whole allspice and black pepper- corns, and the rind of half a lemon cut thin; when it boils, skim it well; then put the lid on the sauce- pan, and let it simmer an hour and a half. Put into another stew-pan two ounces of butter, and work into it as much flour as will make a stiff paste; strain the sauce from the duck to this, mixing it by degrees; when it boils, add a glass67 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME of port wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of salt. Put the duck, which you will have kept very hot, into the dish, and strain the sauce over. Serve with sippets of fried bread. 273. Salmi de Becassines.— Take three woodcocks or four snipes, divide them, cut them in joints—the breasts and backs in two pieces—lay them aside on a plate, and in the dish on which the birds were cut, and which ought to be of silver, break up the livers and trail of the birds; squeeze over them the juice of four lemons; add the peel of one minced very fine; then place the birds on the dish, seasoned with a few pinches of salt, a little white pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne, two spoonfuls of French mustard, and half a glass of white wine. Put the silver dish over a spirit lamp ; keep moving each piece that the seasoning may penetrate and mix properly. Do not allow it to boil, but just as it comes to it put out the lamp, sprinkle with a little good olive-oil, keep stirring it for a minute or two, and serve instantly that it may be as hot as possible. All sorts of game is good dressed in this way. 274. Salmi of Woodcock.—Cut in pieces two woodcocks, previously half roasted; put them into a stew- pan, with three-quarters of a pint of gravy, an onion with two or three cloves stuck in it, an anchovy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a little cayenne, and salt to taste ; simmer for about a quarter of an hour, but do not let it boil; then put in a glass of red wine and a squeeze of lemon. The livers and trails should be bruised in the sauce. Serve very hot. 275. Salmi of Duck.—Cut off the fillets of roasted duck, and the rest of it in pieces; mix salt and cayenne pepper together: sprinkle it over them; add half a wine- glass of olive-oil, a glass of claret, and the juice of two Seville oranges; shake it well over the fire till very hot, and serve. 276. Salmi of Partridge.—Pre- pare three partridges, lard and roast them, let them be underdone; when cold cut them in pieces, take off the skin, pare and arrange them in a stew-pan with a little good broth; set the pan on hot cinders, do not let it boil immediately; add six shallots and a little lemon-peel, also four large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole. Let it stew down to half the quantity, pass the sauce through a tammy, drain the par- tridges, and dish with a slice of hied bread between each piece ; pour the sauce round, and squeeze over them a little lemon-juice. 277. Salmi Chaud-firoid.—Pre- pare the salmi as above. A quarter of an hour before serving take the partridges out and add to the sauce a large spoonful of aspic jelly. Put the stew-pan in ice and shake it well till it takes, then dip each piece of partridge in separately that the sauce may adhere all over; dish them, pour the remainder of the sauce over, garnish with aspic and serve. Fricassee of chicken treated in the same way makes chaud-froid de poulet. 278. Salad of Grouse.—Roast a young grouse ; when cold cut it in eight pieces ; put into a deep dish or salad bowl some fine white lettuce, celery, mustard and cress, etc.; lay the grouse on it, and four hard-boiled eggs cut lengthways.DAINTY DISHES Put into a basin a tablespoonful of finely-chopped shallot, one of pars- ley, one of pounded sugar, the yolks of two raw eggs, a teaspoon- ful of salt, quarter of a one of pepper, two tablespoonfuls of chili vinegar, and four of oil. Mix all well together; whip half a pint of cream, which add by degrees to the sauce, and pour over the salad ; do not mix it till you help it. 279. Salmi de Chasseur.— Roast three partridges as for other salmis ; put into a stew-pan three spoonfuls of oil, half a glass of claret, or other red wine, salt and pepper, cayenne, and the juice and zest of a lemon; put in the par- tridges, previously cut up, toss them over the fire in this sauce till they are very hot, and serve. 280. Salmi k l’Ancienne.—Pre- pare three partridges, lard and roast them, let them be underdone; when cold, cut them in pieces, take off the skin, pare and arrange them in a stew-pan, pour over a little stock, and set them to simmer; add six shallots and a little lemon- peel, also four large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole (see Sauces), let it reduce half, pass the sauce through a tammy. Take the trim- mings and parings of the par- tridges, moisten them with a little of the sauce, pound them in a mortar as fine as possible, and rub through a tammy ; pour this pur4e over the partridges in the stew-pan, heat it in a bain-marie, arrange the salmi in a dish with fried croutons of bread between each piece, and pour the sauce very hot round. Pheasant is excellent dressed in the same way, but should have the addition of a glass of red or white wine, the juice and a small bit of the peel of a Seville orange. 281. Lapereaux aux Fines Herhes. — Cut two rabbits or leverets in pieces, trim and put them into a stew-pan with some butter, salt and pepper; some parsley, shallot, and mushrooms all minced. Pass them over the fire for a quarter of an hour, squeeze a lemon over them, and serve. 282. To Roast Game.—No game can be good that is not carefully roasted and thoroughly well basted. It is more tender if cooked imme- diately than if kept a night; bury- ing it in the ground for a few hours if required to eat immediately makes it more tender; about three days is the best time to keep it. Ducks should be roasted but a short time, and basted with their own drippings, a little butter, and port wine. Partridges will require about twenty minutes, grouse twenty- five, snipe and woodcocks fifteen; the latter should have buttered paper over them till they are nearly done; it is better than bacon, which spoils their flavour; a hare requires about an hour, and should be basted with cream and dredged with flour. 283. To Roast Grouse.—Two brace of birds will require a pound of fresh butter to baste them ; the butter should be put in a basin and allowed to melt before the fire. The birds should not be placed too near the fire at first, and should be basted soon after they are put down, and this should be continued with- out intermission till they are ready to serve. If you wish to serve them English fashion with a gravy, you must make it from grouse, as all meat gravy would spoil this59 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME bird; while they are roasting thin slices of crisp toast should be placed to receive the drippings, and a piece placed under each bird when served. In the Scotch fashion make some toast like buttered toast, crisp it before the fire, place it under the birds, and serve with thin melted butter. All should be very hot. 284. —The Admiral’s Curry.— Put about an ounce of butter into a Btew-pan, and as soon as it is hot slice into it four onions, some carrots and turnips; let them brown over a sharp fire, and rub through a tammy. When done sufficiently, add some good veal stock to the sauce, a teaspoon- ful of curry powder, and one of curry paste, also a dessertspoonful of chutnee. Mix all this well to- gether with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes; now put in whatever meat you choose—rabbit, fowl, or fish—cut in rather small pieces; stew over a smart fire, adding occasionally a little weak broth or milk that the curry may not get too dry. Let all simmer together, and an excellent curry will be the result. Milk is con- sidered a great improvement to curry, either sweet or butter milk ; if the former is used, a little lemon- juice should be added to it. In India fresh tamarinds are used with it. The sauce from pickled man- goes is a great improvement; it should not be put into the sauce, but eaten with the curry. 285. To Boil the Rice.—Throw the rice, having first well washed it, into boiling water; there must be enough quite to cover it. Let it boil exactly sixteen minutes, but not too fast. When done suffici- ently, and while still boiling, dash some cold water into the pot, and immediately remove it from the fire, throw the rice into the colan- der to drain, cover it with a napkin, and when all the water has completely drained from it, serve. N.B.—The dash of cold water has the effect of separating the grains of rice. 286. The General’s Curries— A Dry Curry.—Two or three common-sized onions to be sliced and fried brown in a little butter, and then worked into a paste with water, a tablespoonful of curry powder, and a little salt. Cut up the fowl, meat, or fish, add it, and stir up the whole without ceasing till the meat is thoroughly cooked. 287. A Wet Curry.—Cut the meat, fowl, or fish into small pieces; put them, with a piece of butter and two or three onions sliced, into a stew-pan; fry them till brown. When nearly done, add a tablespoonful of the curry powder and some salt, and simmer the whole gently, with a little water or broth, until it is suffi- ciently cooked. Remember to keep constantly stirring. 288. To Boil the Rice.—Put two quarts of water in a stew-pan, with a tablespoonful of salt ; when boiling, add half a pound of rice, well washed. Boil for about ten minutes till the grains become rather soft. Drain into a colander. Slightly grease the pot with butter, and put the rice back into it. Let it swell slowly for twenty minutes, either near the fire or in a slow oven. Each grain will then swell and be well separated, when it is ready to serve.60 DAINTY DISHES 289. Curry Powder.— Coriander seed, well washed 8 oz. Turmeric . . . . 9 „ Dried ginger . . . 8 „ Black pepper . . . 6 „ Dried chilies . . . ,, Cardamoms . . . 4 ,, Cinnamon . . . . 4 „ Garlic . . . . 1 „ 290. Bengal Curry Powder.— Black pepper . . . 5 oz. Cayenne pepper . . . 1 „ Coriander seed . . . 18 „ Fenugreek seed . . . 3 ,, Cummin seed . . . 8 „ Turmeric . . . . 10 ,, 291. The Professor’s Curry.— Take a good handful of onions sliced, and put them, with two ounces of butter, into a stew-pan ; let them stew till quite soft, then fry them very brown and take them out of the butter. Cut what- ever meat you intend to curry into small pieces, put them into the butter, and fry them brown also. Then take them out, and put in two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, and fry it till all the butter is absorbed. Now put back the onions and meat into the pan with the curry powder, and pour sufficient milk over the whole to cover it, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, add a spoonful of salt, and let the whole stew very gently till all the liquid is absorbed and like a paste over the meat. It is essential that this curry be cooked in a stew, not a frying, pan. Buttermilk may be used if pre- ferred ; in that case leave out the lemon-juice. 292. To Boil the Rice.—It should first be well washed, and then put into plenty of water, not less than a quart to a quarter of a pound of rice. This may be either hot or cold. It must be boiled as fast as possible, and will require about twenty minutes. When the water assumes a white appearance it is usually done enough ; but the rice should be tried to be sure it is soft. Pour the water off, and lay the rice on a sieve to drain, covered over with a cloth. As soon as all the moisture is absorbed it is ready to serve, and should be quite soft, and each grain separate. 293. The Baronet’s Curry.— Take a young fowl and divide it as for a fricassee, removing all the skin and fat; mix a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper with two table- spoonfuls of curry powder; rub it well into the fowl. Cut eight large-sized onions into shreds ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a clean frying-pan, and set it over a clear fire; take great care that the butter neither burns nor oils. As soon as it is well browned, put the fowl into it, keeping it on the fire and turning it frequently with a fork till it is well browned on both sides. Have ready a stew- pan which has been previously heated; place the fowl in it, and put the onions into the frying-pan till they are browned; then add them to the fowl in the stew-pan, with a quarter of a pint of new milk, twenty almonds blanched and pounded, the juice of one lemon, a little salt, and a wineglass- ful of fresh sorrel-juice; put the stew-pan on a gentle fire, and let it simmer, but not boil, for an hour and a half, frequently shaking it. Serve very hot. 294. Curry Powder for the Above.—The best turmeric six ounces, coriander seed ten ounces, cummin seed two ounces, wellMEAT, POULTRY, GAME 61 pounded and sifted together. Cayenne and black pepper to be added to taste when the curry is made. 295. To Boil the Rice.—Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water; have some water boiling very fast (there should be plenty of it), and throw the rice in; boil about a quarter of an hour. To ascertain if it is done enough, rub a grain in your fingers, if it goes quite down, it is done enough; strain it into a colander ; pour a cup of cold water over it, and put it back into a covered saucepan near the fire till ready to serve. 296. Rabbits & la Provengale. —Cut the rabbits in pieces ; put them in a stew-pan with some good olive-oil, salt and pepper, and some onions cut in shoes; fry them of a light brown; take them out and dry them on a cloth. Then return the rabbits and onions to the stew- pan with the addition of a clove of garlic minced fine, a small spoon- ful of espagnole, and some tomato sauce, and stew until sufficiently done. 297. Hare or Rabbit Hashed or Stewed.—Cut them in pieces (the stew-pan should be flat, so that each pieoe may touch the bottom); heat the pan, then put in about half a spoonful of lard; place the pieces of hare or rabbit in the pan so that each piece touches it; as soon as they begin to brown, sprinkle them with two handfuls of flour (they should be browned on both sides); add a few small onions; let the pan remain five minutes over a moderate fire, then pour over a pint of boiling water; season with salt and pepper, two cloves, three allspice, and a bit of garlic about the size of a pea, two bay leaves, and a small bunch of pars- ley. Let the whole simmer slowly nearly an hour and a half; now add to the whole half a bottlb of good claret, and continue to simmer for two hours longer, when it will be ready to serve. Care must be taken not to have too much fire, or it will become dry. 298. Filets de Li&vre en Poiv- rade.—Take a hare that has been already roasted, cut the meat into fillets; if you have not enough to fill your dish you may leave the bones in, otherwise the meat alone is best. Place it in a stew-pan with some sauce poivrade (see Sauces); make it very hot, but do not let it boil, and serve with sippets of fried toast. 299. Boudins of Rabbit.—Boil the rabbit well; pick the meat from the bones; pound it very fine in a mortar with a small piece of butter; add a little good gravy, a little parsley, and sweet herbs; season with pepper and salt; add a few breadcrumbs and three eggs; beat it up well. You may cook them in cups or timbale moulds. Butter and flour them first. Put in the boudins, and steam them about three-quarters of an hour. Turn them out, and serve with a rich bechamel. If you have rabbits enough, use only the white meat. 300. Quenelles of Chicken.— Take the breast of a fowl and scrape all the meat from the sinews, the same quantity of suet, and shred it very fine. Put it in the mortar and pound as smooth as possible ; then take the crumb of a penny roll, wet it in milk, add it to the meat in the mortar, and pound a little more; rub it through a fine62 DAINTY DISHES sieve, return it to the mortar, and mix it thoroughly, first with one whole egg, and then with the white of another ; season it with salt and pepper to taste, take it out with a tablespoon, smooth it over the top, and put each into a stew-pan with as much broth or water as will cover them. Ten minutes is sufficient to cook them. Serve with a bechamel sauce. 301. Quenelles aux Truffes.— Boil a young fowl, skin it, scrape all the white meat clear from sinews, pound it very fine in a mortar, soak some crumb of light bread either in broth or milk, boil a calf’s udder and pound that smooth also ; mix all well together; season it with pepper and salt; add three eggs and some minced truffles; mix well. Have ready some boiling water; take up a tablespoonful of the mixture, smooth it over, throw into the water, and poach like an egg. Serve with a strong, clear gravy. 302. Veal Cake (Cold).—Take a breast of veal; bone it and cut it into three parts; season it with cayenne pepper, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, cloves, and salt; mince a good quantity of parsley with two anchovies fine, and strew it over. Boil four eggs hard, cut them in halves; cut some lean bacon half an inch thick; put a large slice of butter in a basin, then piece of veal, stew it with the parsley, and lay over half the eggs, then slices of bacon, and so on till the basin is full. Lay the bones on the top to prevent it from getting dry; put it in a moderate oven for four hours. When you take it out, remove the bones, and lay a weight on to press it; make it solid; garnish with aspic jelly and pars- ley, and eat it with any cold sauce you like, or vinegar, mustard, and sugar. 303. Blanquette of Veal k la Paysanne.—Roast a neck or loin of veal; when cold, cut it into collops; season well, and put it into a stew-pan with some sauce tourn4e (see Sauces), some finely- chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Reduce the sauce, and thicken with the yolk of an egg. Serve very hot. 304. Tendons de Veau k la Ravigote.—Stew the tendons very tender in broth; let them cool, turn them, arrange them neatly in your dish, and pour over a cold ravigote. Border the dish with Beurre de Montpellier or aspic. 305. Veal Cutlets.—Take a leg of veal, cut the cutlets a neat size and shape, and beat them flat; strew over them a little black pepper and salt; beat up an egg with a little minced parsley and shallot; dip the cutlets into this, and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them a good brown. Serve with shallot - gravy or sauce piquante. 306. Macaroni Pie. — Bone a fowl and cut it into quarters; blanch it, boil it tender with a few onions, thicken the gravy with the yolk of an egg. Wash the maca- roni clean; boil it for a quarter of an hour, have about two ounces of Parmesan cheese grated; mix all together with pepper, salt, and a little good butter ; then put it into a raised paste, and bake in a sharp oven for one hour. 307. Chicken Pie aux Feuille- tages.—Cover the bottom of the63 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME dish or pattypan with a light paste; cut your chickens as for a fricassee; lay them in and season with pepper, salt, and a bit of mace ; put in a little bundle of green onions and parsley tied, and two spoonfuls of broth; cover with thin slices of bacon; put the lid on neatly, and bake it about an hour and a half. Before serving, take off the top, remove the bacon and herbs, and skim off any fat. Have ready a ladleful of cullis, with some aspara- gus points or peas boiled ; add the juice of a lemon, make it boiling hot, pour over the chickens, and serve. Young rabbits are good dressed in the same way. 308. Veal Pie.—Take the middle or scrag of a small neck, cut it into nice pieces, season with pepper and salt. Lay in the bottom of the pie-dish some slices of ham or bacon; then the veal and some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a little minced parsley and green onions, and two spoonfuls of veal stock. Cover with a good puff paste, and bake about an hour and a half. 309. Partridge Pie (raised).— Bone as many partridges as you will require for the size of the pie. Put inside a whole peeled raw truffle, and enough forcemeat to fill each. Make your raised pie- crust in a mould, lay a few thin slices of veal at the bottom and a layer of forcemeat, then the par- tridges ; fill up the corners with truffles, cover over with slices of fat bacon, then with paste, and bake for four hours. It should be eaten cold. The forcemeat in the following receipt should be used. 310. Perigord Pie.—Take eight Bmall fat chicken, bone them; make forcemeat of half a pound of liver—fowl’s, calf’s, or lamb’s-a piece of veal and a small bit of ham, a little salt, some pepper, two boned anchovies, a very little allspice, and some cayenne pepper, a little fresh-chopped suet, and the yolks of eight eggs. Pound them all very fine in a stone mortar; stuff the chickens quite full, put them in the pie, and fill up all the spaces above and below with the stuffing. Truffles are a great im- provement, and should be added both whole and minced with the forcemeat when they can be pro- cured. All sorts of game make a good pie in this way. It should be eaten cold, and baked in a raised piecrust between four and five hours. 311. Lark Pie.—Season the larks with pepper and salt, fill them with forcemeat, put them in a raised paste with forcemeat under and over, bake them one hour. Pour cullis or brown sauce over them when done. 312. Sheep’s Head Pie (Scotch). —Take a sheep’s head and feet with the skin on; singe them till quite black, put them into warm water and scrape them clean; open the head, take out the brains, and put the head and trotters in a saucepan with a little water, an onion, a bay-leaf, a little parsley, two cloves, and some salt. Stew six or seven hours. Take out the bones, and put the meat in a pie- dish ; reduce the liquor they were stewed in; strain and pour over the meat. Let it get quite cold, then cover it with a puff-paste, and bake it till the crust is well browned. It is best eaten cold. 313. Hare Pie (Scotch).—Cut a hare in neat pieces; put it into a64 DAINTY DISHES saucepan with enough water to cover it, two or three onions, a carrot, and a bay-leaf; stew it till tender, then place it in a pie-dish with its own liquor strained, and two glasses of port wine; season with pepper and salt, cover with a good puff-paste, and hake about an hour in an oven that is not very hot. 314. Calf s Head Pie (Scotch).— Scald and soak the head, and simmer for half an hour in a little water, with a knuckle of veal, the rind of a lemon, two onions, a faggot of parsley and winter savory, a few white peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Take up the head, and, when cold, cut into bits of different shapes. Skin and cut the tongue into square pieces. Boil the broth in which the head and knuckle were simmered with a few bits of isinglass till it is reduced to a strong jelly gravy. Place a layer of thin slices of lean ham at the bottom of the pie-dish, then some of the head and tongue, a little forcemeat made from the knuckle, hard yolks of eggs cut in two; season with white pepper, salt, a very little nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel. Fill the dish thus with alternate layers, pour in as much as it will hold of the gravy jelly, cover it with puff-paste, and bake an hour. This is to be eaten cold. 315. Calf’s Feet Pie (Scotch). —Clean and boil two feet till tender, but not too soft, mince the meat when cold with suet and pared apples in the proportion of a third part apples and suet to the calf’s feet. Put into a pie-dish with a little strong gravy and a glass of white wine; season with a little pepper and salt; cover the dish with puff-paste, and bake it rather more than an hour. This is very light and nourishing. 316. Pigeon Pie.—Put in the bottom of the pie-dish a good beef- steak, not cut too thick ; truss and prepare six young pigeons, arrange them in the dish, between each place the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; season with a quarter of an ounce of mixed salt and pepper, a sprinkle of minced parsley, and a very little cayenne pepper; add a wineglass- ful of veal stock, cover with a puff- paste not too thiok, and bake one hour. 317. Chicken Pie. — Cut the chickens in joints; blanch them; season with pepper and salt, a mixed spoonful of chopped mush- rooms, parsley, and onions ; add a few slices of ham or bacon. A layer below and one above the chicken arranged in the pie-dish is best. Fill it up with veal gravy in which you have previously boiled a few mushrooms ; put in also the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs. A little lemon-juice may also be added. Cover with puff-paste, and bake rather more than an hour. 318. Casserolles of Rice.—Boil the rice well, and let it stand till nearly cold; then make it into round rolls with a small shape about the depth of a pattie. Cover them with egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them of an even light colour. When cold, scoop out the inside, and fill them with either minced veal or chicken, well stewed with parsley and shallot, and mix with a bbchamel sauce. Make them hot, and serve with fried parsley. 319. Petits Patties—Cut some chioken in dioe, put it into a sauce-65 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME pan with some bechamel sauce, well seasoned with shallot. Reduce it a little and let it get cold. Line your pattie-pans with puff-paste, rather thin, and put a little of the meat in each. Stew them well. Sprinkle them over with bread- crumbs and some bits of fresh butter. B ake them twenty minutes in a quick oven, and serve hot. 320. Larks en Ragofit.—Take a dozen larks, put them in a stew- pan with a bit of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, and sweetbread cut small, a good pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, one of gravy, and some broth. Reduce the same, skim it well, take out the herbs, season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. 321. Roast Sweetbreads.—Trim a fine sweetbread (it cannot be too fresh); blanch or parboil it for five minutes, throw it into a basin of cold water; when cold dry it well on a cloth, run a lark-spit or small skewer through it, tie it on the spit, and roast it either plain or egged with a brush, and well powdered with breadcrumbs. Serve with a clear sauce piquante. (See Sauces.) 322. Rognons de Bceuf, etc.— Cut two kidneys in slices, put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter at the bottom, a spoonful of minced parsley, onion, and mush- room ; cover them with fat bacon, and let them stew one hour. Strain the liquor off, and thicken with a spoonful of flour. Season with salt and pepper, half a glass of white wine, and the juice of a lemon. 323. Kidney k, la Brochette.— Divide two or more kidneys, put them on a silver skewer, melt some butter, and with a paste-brush butter them well all over ; set them upon the gridiron as near the fire as possible, for they cannot be done too quick. Turn them every minute, and when half done season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Put them, skewer and all, on a hot plate, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and serve. You may garnish them with beurre & la maitre d'hotel. 324. Kidney Sautd.—Cut three kidneys each in five pieces ; put an ounce of butter in the saut4 pan; when very hot put in the kidneys, stir round for a few minutes with a spoon till they are set. Add a tea- spoonful of flour, quarter of a one of salt, and the third part of that of pepper. Mix well; add half a gill (about two tablespoonfuls) of broth, and a small wineglassful of either sherry, port, or champagne, and a few mushrooms Do not let them boil; a few minutes is enough to do them. 325. A Haggis.—Boil a sheep’s fights and head, then mince them fine, add about the same quantity of suet, season with salt and pepper, a good handful of chopped onions, and two handfuls of oat- meal. Fill the bag (or paunch) half full, put into it about a pint of broth, sew it up, and boil gently between three and four hours. Some put in the fiver minced, and sweet herbs and spices. 326. Scotch Minced Collops.— This is simply a piece of lean raw beef minced very fine. They re- quire about twenty minutes to cook. Put them in a saucepan, with a bit of butter to prevent their sticking. When they are hot, add a tea- spoonful of flour and a little gravydainty dtsties 66 or water. They should be stirred often to prevent then getting lumpy, and are very light and nutritious. Onions may be added, or a little minced hot pickle, if liked. 327. Hare Collops are dressed in the same way, with the addition of a little claret. 328. Caparata. — Cut down a cold fowl, mince all the white very small, break the bones and the back, and put them, with the rest of the trimmings, a little water, a bit of lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in a saucepan. Let it boil till all the substance is out of them; strain it off, thicken with a bit of butter rolled in flour and a little cream; chop some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, put them with the fowl into the sauce, give it two or three good boils. Just before dish- ing add a squeeze of lemon, a little salt, and cayenne pepper. Pepper and salt the legs, broil and lay on the mince. 329. Stewed Tripe.—Select two pounds of double tripe well cleaned and blanched, cut in pieces of rather less than a quarter of a pound each; put in a clean stew- pan with a pint of milk and one of water, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, eight middle-sized onions carefully peeled. Set it on to boil, which it should do at first rather fast, then simmer till done, which will be in rather more than half an hour. Put it into a deep dish or tureen, and serve with the milk and onions. 630. Tripe k la Lyonnaise.— When any oold tripe remains, cut it in thin slices about an inch square and wipe it very day. Mince two onions, put some butter (in the proportion of three ounces to a pound of tripe) into a frying-pan with the onions; when they are about half done put in the tripe and let all fry for about ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar to each pound of tripe. Serve very hot. This is a favourite dish in Lyons, both with the ‘ gourmet ’ and the ‘ gourmand.’ 331. Gratin of Tripe.—Cut each half pound, previously boiled, in four pieces. Stew it slowly in a pint of bechamel, in which you have mixed two teaspoonfuls of curry paste or powder, for half an hour. Add the yolks of two eggs, mix and stir quickly; place it in the dish it is to be served on, strew it with breadcrumbs. Stick a few bits of butter on the top, and place it for a minute or two in the oven. Pass a salamander over the top, and serve. 332. Black Puddings.—When a large pig is killed, catch the blood in a basin, to each quart of blood put a large teaspoonful of salt, stir incessantly till it is cold ; simmer, in the smallest possible quantity of water, a pint of Emden groats till tender, but not the least reduced to gruel. To each quart of blood add one pound of the inside fat of the pig, chopped, but not too small, a quarter of a pint of breadcrumbs, a tablespoonful of sage, a teaspoon- ful of thyme, minced fine, a quarter of an ounce each of allspice, salt, and pepper, and a teacupful of cream. When the blood is cold, strain it through a sieve and mix it with the fat, then the groats, and lastly the seasoning; mix well, and fill the largest guts, previously well cleansed, tie in lengths of about nine inches, and boil gentlyMEAT, POULTRY, GAME 67 for twenty minutes; when they have boiled a few minutes take them out and prick gently with a fork. 333. White Puddings.—Boil a pint of good milk and a handful of breadcrumbs on the stove, turning often till the bread has absorbed all the milk and it is quite thick; leave it to cool. Cut six middle- sized onions in small pieces, brown them in a frying-pan with a good hit of butter. Then take half a pound of fat of the inside of the pig chopped, and mix with the onions on the fire, let it cool a few minutes, then take it off, put in the boiled breadcrumbs, and six yolks of eggs, beaten up with about half a pint of cream. Stir all together. Season with salt, pepper, and some fine spices, and stuff the previously prepared gut, but not more than three parts full, for fear of bursting. Tie in lengths of about six inches, put them gently into water which is quite boiling, and let them boil a quarter of an hour; take them out with a skimmer, and put them into cold water. Dry them. Broil in paper cases, and serve hot. 334. Pork Sausages.—The trim- mings from the hams and part of the griskin, an equal quantity of fat and lean, should be cut small with a knife, carefully removing any sinew or hard part, then chop it very fine with a chopper. Season with pepper, salt, and a little fine spice. Add a little finely minced sage. Mix thoroughly, and fill the skins. They may either he boiled, fried, or broiled, and take about a quarter of an hour to do. 335. Veal Sausages. — Chop equal quantities of the lean of veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and three or four anchovies ; beat all in a mortar, and when used, roll in balls or the shape of a sausage and fry; serve on mashed potatoes with fried sippets. 336. Beef Sausages—Chop two pounds of lean beef and one pound of suet very fine, a teaspoonful of powdered thyme, one of sage, and one of allspice ; season with pepper and salt; put them in skins, previ- ously well cleaned and washed. They may be fried or broiled, and are good served with stewed red cabbage. 337. Godiveau, or Veal Force- meat.—Scrape one pound of veal, half a pound of fat bacon, pound it fine in a mortar; add the crumb of a French roll, a teaspoonful of mace, and the same of nutmeg; a tablespoonful each of chopped onions, parsley, and mushrooms, or truffles, some pepper and salt; mix all this together, with two whole eggs, and rub it through a sieve. It is used on all occasions ; for pies and forcemeat stuffing. timetables, Salats, Etc. 338. To Boil Potatoes.—They skins can easily be removed before should always he boiled in their serving them. Choose them as skins, and are best served in them; much as possible of a size, that but for those who dislike this, the they may all be equally done ; put68 dainty nrsnES them into a pot with barely suf- ficient water to cover them, and plenty of salt. As soon as the skins begin to crack, lift the pot from the fire, and drain off every drop of water; then either lay a cloth over the pot or put the lid on, not quite close, so that the steam may escape, and return them to the fire or set the pot close to it, till they are thoroughly done and quite dry. Some people, when the potatoes are boiling, drain off half the boil- ing water and replace it with cold, which is supposed to make them more mealy at the heart. 339. Broiled Potatoes.—-When your potatoes are boiled, skin them, and lay them on a gridiron over a clear brisk fire, and turn them till they are brown all over. 340. Roasted Potatoes should be first parboiled, then skimmed and dredged with flour, and put in the dripping-pan, under the joint that is roasting, about an hour before it is ready to serve. They should be browned all over, and carefully drained from the dripping. 341. Baked Potatoes are best done in a Dutch oven ; choose large ones; wash them very carefully, and put them in the oven in their skins. They require a long time doing; if large, about two hours. They should be eaten with cold butter, pepper, and salt. 342. Potato Fritters (Scotch). —Parboil half a dozen, or more if required, large kidney potatoes, cut them in slices about the thickness of a crown piece, beat up a couple of eggs with a tablespoonful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and an equal quantity of lean ham grated. Dip each slice of potato in this mix- ture, and fry in plenty of good olive-oil. 343. Mashed Potatoes (Indian). —Mash well-boiled potatoes, taking out all defects; boil one or two onions tender, chop them small, together with a few chilies or capsi- cums. Mix the whole well to- gether ; make it into a neat shape with a spoon, or put it into a mould, and bake for a short time in a moderate oven. 344. Fried Mashed Potatoes.— Roast twelve fine potatoes in the oven. When done, take out the insides and form them into a ball. When cold, put them into a mortar with a piece of butter half the size of the ball; pound them well to- gether ; season with a little salt and pepper, and a little minced shallot and parsley. Mix them with eight yolks and two whites of eggs. Form them into balls about the shape and size of a small egg. Breadcrumb them twice over, and fry them of a light brown colour in a stew-pan of hot lard. This is good to garnish roast meat, etc. 345. Potato Snow.—Choose the whitest potatoes you can, and free from spots. Put them on to boil in cold water with plenty of salt. When they begin to crack, drain the water from them, and put them into a clean stew-pan by the fire till they are quite dry and fall to pieces. Then rub them through a wire sieve on the dish they are to be served on, and do not touch them again. 346. Potatoes & la Lyonnaise. —You may either boil potatoes on purpose, or take the remains of cold ones. Cut them in shoes about the size and thickness of half aVEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 69 crown. Put three ounces of butter into a frying-pan; slice three onions into it; fry them of a light colour; then put in the potatoes, and turn them about till they are a nice yellow. Add a spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon; toss them well over the fire, that all may be thoroughly mixed, and serve very hot. They are very good to eat with cutlets. 347. Potatoes k la Maitre d’Hotel.—Wash the potatoes clean, and boil them in salt and water in their skins. When they are done, let them cool. Trim them round and cut them into moderately thick shoes, and stew them a few minutes in a maitre d’hotel sauce (see Sauces). If you should have none ready you can melt some butter, using milk instead of water; mix with it a little minced parsley, pepper, salt, a small bit of glaze, and the juice of a lemon. 348. Fried Potatoes.—Cut raw potatoes into the shape and size of large corks, and then into thinnish shoes ; throw them into hot clari- fied butter, and fry till they are crisp and of a good brown. Drain ah the grease from them on a cloth, and serve very hot on a napkin, and sprinkle them over with a little fine salt. 349. Mashed Potatoes. — The potatoes should be first thoroughly weh boiled, carefully remove ah defects or hard bits; mash them very smah with a wooden spoon, adding as much cream as will make them the right consistence, and season with pepper and salt; or, instead of cream, you may use butter and boding milk, and they can be browned after they are dressed in the dish they are to be served on in the Dutch oven. 350. Potato Souffles. — Roast eight potatoes in the oven; when they are quite done scoop out the insides and mash them up with a little bit of butter and a smah quantity of cream, some pepper and salt; mix thoroughly. Whip four whites of eggs to a froth, and mix with the potatoes; then fill the skins, having cut them low enough to be of a good shape, and put them into the oven for eight minutes ; after which, serve them up as quick as possible. Large even potatoes should be chosen. 351. Potato Chips. — Cut raw potatoes into neat round slices rather more than an inch thick, and then into thin spiral shavings, going round and round in the way you peel an apple; throw these carefully into hot lard or oil; fry them very crisp of a fight brown, and serve as hot as possible. A little salt should be sprinkled over them. 352. Potato Salad (German).— Cut cold boiled rather waxy pota- toes into moderately thick slices, put them in a bowl, and add to every pound a tablespoonful of vinegar, two of oil, half a teaspoon- ful of salt, a quarter of a one of pepper, and a little minced parsley. Slices of beetroot and Portugal onions are a great improvement to the salad. 353. To Stew Peas.—The peas should be young. Put them, with a bit of butter, a sprig of mint, and one of parsley, tied together, and a lump of sugar, into a stew- pan, and cover them up close. Stew them till they are soft; take70 DAINTY DISHES out the mint and parsley; add a little stock and a pinch of flour ; mix well together, and stew till they come to a boil. 354. Peas k la CrSme.—Take two quarts of very young green peas, toss them up with a bit of butter, and let them stew over a gentle fire ; add a little bunch of parsley and chives. When they are nearly ready, season them with a little salt and pepper; remove the parsley and chives, and mix about a wineglassful of cream, sweetened with a little sugar, with them. 355. Peas k la Frangaise.— Wash the peas, which may be rather old ones; put them into a stew-pan with a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, a fag- got of parsley and green onions, two cloves, a small slice of raw ham, a large white cos lettuce cut into slices, and a little salt. Put all on the fire to stew in its own liquor ; then put in a little boiling water, and allow it to stand for a quarter of an hour ; add a lump of sugar and some small bits of butter rolled in flour; mix well; let them have one more boil to thicken, and serve. 356. Pease Pudding.—One pint of peas and one potato; boil till they are quite soft; then rub them through a sieve ; tie them tight in a cloth, and boil ten minutes. Some salt should be added before the pudding is tied up. 357. Les Haricots k la Bre- tonne.—Boil half a pint of haricot beans till they are quite tender; slice four large onions very thin, and fry them in a little butter till quite brown ; then dry them in a cloth. Put the haricots and onions together in a stew-pan, and add a small ladleful of reduced cullis, a little good broth, a small bit of glaze, pepper and salt, and a little finely-minced parsley; make very hot, and serve. 358. White Beans k la Maltre d’Hotel.—White beans when new and fresh must be put into boiling water, but if they are old and dry they should be soaked for an hour in cold water before you boil them. Put them on to boil in cold water, and if more is required before they are done, replenish also with cold; boil them very tender, and put into a stew-pan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little finely-minced parsley, some pepper and salt, and then the beans, previously well drained; keep shaking the stew- pan, but do not touch the beans for fear of breaking them; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve very hot. 359. Haricots Blancs au Jus.— Steep them a night in cold water; stew them slowly for two hours in broth, and serve them with a clear gravy; about half a pound is enough for a dish. Be sure they are stewed till quite tender. 360. Haricots Stewed for Roast Mutton.—Soak a pint of white beans in water for a few hours, let them boil gently till quite tender, but not broken, strain the water off, and add to the beans two ounces of butter, two minced shal- lots, pepper and salt, and a pint of either bechamel or cullis, accord- ing as you wish them white or brown; let all stew a few minutes, and serve with roast leg of mutton. 361. French Beans k la Pou- lette.—Choose the beans small and tender; wash them and take outVEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 71 the fibre, and throw them into fresh water. If any are larger, cut them to the general size of the rest. Put them in a stew-pan with plenty of water, and a handful of salt, and set them over a strong fire. When they are done enough, throw them into cold water; then drain, and put them in a stew-pan with a bit of butter, and an onion or two cut in little dice, and previously fried white in butter. Sprinkle in a little flour ; let them stew a few minutes, but do not allow them to brown; add a spoonful of soup, some minced parsley and scallions, or green onions, salt and pepper. Let them come to a boil, stirring them well, and thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, beaten in a little cream. Just before serving add the juice of a lemon. 362. French Beans Stewed.— Cut off the stalks and remove the fibres, shred them fine, and wash them in salt and water ; put them on to boil in a good deal of water, with plenty of salt in it, which pre- serves their greenness. When they are about half done, drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with three spoonfuls of good broth, some cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, salt, and pepper; stew gently till quite tender, and serve hot. 363. Broad Beans au Jus.— Take a sufficient quantity of young beans ready shelled, and put them on to boil with a great deal of salt and water; when nearly done, drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with a bit of butter, some minced parsley and scallions ; toss them well in the butter; add three spoonfuls of espagnole; let them simmer ; skim off the fat; reduoe the sauce, dish, and serve. 364. Carottes au Sucre. — Cut a pound and a half of carrots into rather thin slices; blanch and brain them ; put them into a sauce- pan with a pound of white sugar, and as much boiling water as will oover them. When the water is reduced to half, add the rind of a lemon; and when only about three spoonfuls are left, squeeze over them the juice of two lemons; make very hot, and serve. 365. To Stew Carrots.— Half boil and carefully scrape them; then slice them into a stew-pan; add half a teacupful of broth, the same of cream, and some salt and pepper ; simmer till they are very tender, but not broken; ten minutes before serving add a small piece of butter rubbed in flour, and some minced parsley ; the latter may be omitted if not liked ; a little sugar is a great improvement. 366. Carrots au Jus.—Parboil and scrape them; cut them into moderately thick slices, and put them into a stew-pan with a pint of good broth, a little salt and pepper, and a spoonful of sugar; let them stew gently till very tender; a few minutes before serving add a squeeze of lemon to the gravy. 367. Mashed Turnips, Carrots, or Parsnips.—Peel some turnips; wash and boil them in salt and water. When done enough, press all the water out and pound them well in a mortar; then put them into a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little salt, half a pint of cream, and a tea- spoonful of flour; mix thoroughly ; make it very hot, and serve. Pro- ceed exactly the same for carrots and parsnips. Never rub throughDAINTY DISIIES 72 a sieve, for then it becomes a pur<$e, not a mash. 368. Turnips Glac6 au Sucre. —Trim about two dozen turnips in the shape of small pears; if quite young, which is best, leave them their own shape ; put them into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter, two ounces of pounded sugar, a very little salt, and half a pint of good broth; set them on to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about forty minutes. When they are nearly done, place the stew-pan over a brisk fire to reduce the sauce to a glaze, rolling the turnips about in it at the same time, but with great care, to avoid breaking them; dish, and pour the glazed sauce over them. 369. Carrots k l’Allemande.— Trim four or five dozen spring carrots; wash them and parboil them in water with a little salt for ten minutes; then put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, the same of pounded sugar, and a pint of good broth; boil the carrots in this, very gently, for half an hour ; then set them on to boil briskly, till the sauce is reduced to a glaze; dish them; pour alle- mande sauce round, and the glaze over them. 370. Racines k la CrSme.— Take some good carrots, scrape and wash them; put them on to boil for half an hour, then cut them in long slices, and put them in a stew- pan with a piece of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley and green onions, sweet basil, a clove of garlic, and two shallots. Pass them over the fire, add a pinch of flour, and a little good broth; let them simmer; reduce the sauce, take out the bunch of herbs, etc., put in three yolks of eggs, beat up with a little cream ; thicken the sauce, but do not let it boil again. Just before serving add a little vinegar. 371. Racines en Menu Droits. —Cut some onions into slices, brown them in butter with a pinch of flour. When they are almost done enough, moisten with broth, and stew till quite tender. Have some carrots, parsnips, celery, and turnips ready boiled and cut in slices, and add them to the onions ; season with salt, whole pepper, and a few drops of vinegar. Make all very hot, and just before serving mix a fit tie mustard into the sauce. 372. Pur6e de Navets.—Take ten or twelve good-sized turnips, cut them in small pieces, scald them in boiling water, and drain them; put them in a stew-pan with a bit of butter, and turn them often till they acquire a colour; then put in a pinch of flour, a little salt and pepper, two minced shallots; moisten with broth, and stew over a gentle fire till the turnips fall into a sort of thick cream; then rub them through a sieve, and they are ready to serve. Under mutton cutlets, etc. 373. Chartreuse of Vegetables. —Blanch three dozen pieces of carrot; three dozen pieces of turnip, cut with a cutter ; boil two dozen button onions, all of a size ; boil and chop a good quantity of spinach, one cauliflower, and a dozen asparagus heads; line a mould with slices of fat bacon; cut them; arrange the roots, etc., round the bottom and sides into any pattern you fancy ; then press the spinach all over them, and fill up with all sorts of chopped vege- tables, which should be stewed in73 VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. broth, thickened with a little brown roux, and seasoned with salt and pepper; boil it in a bain marie, that is, set the mould in a pan of hot water, taking care there is not enough water to boil into the mould; boil for one hour; or it may be baked for the same time ; serve with a brown sauce. This chartreuse, instead of being filled with vegetables, may be served as an entree, putting forcemeat next the spinach, and filling up with a ragout of sweetbread, etc. 374. Macedoine of Vegetables. —Boil two dozen asparagus tops, twelve button onions, half a cauli- flower, two turnips, and two carrots, cut with a cutter twelve new pota- toes and twenty French beans; put them all together into a stew- pan with a pint of bechamel, a little salt and pepper; make very hot, and serve. 375. A Dutch Macedoine.— Brown four or five onions sliced and chopped in some butter; then add previously boiled vegetables of any kind you can get, also chopped; stew all together in the butter, stirring continually; when nearly done, add some sliced tomatoes and two or three minced chilies, also a little salt, and either two table- spoonfuls of vinegar or a handful of sorrel. 376. Chou en Surprise.—Take a whole cabbage ; put it on to boil in boiling water for a quarter of an hour ; put it into cold water ; then press it dry with your hands, but without breaking the leaves ; draw the leaves backwards ; take out the stalk and centre, and in its place put sausage meat and boiled chest- nuts ; replace the leaves so as to give the appearance of a whole cabbage ; tie it up with packthread and put it on to stew in broth, with a little salt, whole pepper, a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; when done sufficiently, drain, and serve with either a cullis or a bechamel sauce. 377. Chou k la Bourgeoise.— Boil a whole cabbage, well cleaned, for a quarter of an hour; lay it in cold water; when cold, take it out, and squeeze it dry ; open the leaves carefully, and between each put a little veal forcemeat; tie all together with packthread, and stew it in as much broth as will cover the cab- bage, with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, an onion, carrot, and parsnip, and two or three cloves ; when stewed enough, press it gently with a clean cloth, remove the packthread, cut it in half, and serve with a sauce espagnole poured hot over it. 378. Colcannon.—Chop an equal quantity of boiled cabbage and potatoes, add two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, and fry them to- gether ; some onions or carrots may also be added, if liked. Cab- bages should always be boiled in two waters, and the water skimmed, and take about an hour to cook. 379. To Stew Red Cabbage.— Split a red cabbage, cut it across in thin slices, throw it into salt and water, then put it into a clean saucepan, with some broth and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; add pepper and salt, a glass of vinegar, and a little bit of bacon. Let it stew till tender, take out the bacon, and serve. It is good with sau- sages, stewed partridges, etc. 380. A Dutch Receipt for Red Cabbage.—Cut it in shreds, and boil in water till tender ; then drainDAINTY DISHES 74 as dry as possible, put it into a stew-pan, with some pure olive-oil, a piece of fresh butter, a small glass of vinegar and water, an onion cut small, some pepper and salt. Let it simmer till all the liquor is wasted. It is eaten in Holland either hot or cold, and considered very wholesome. 381. Brussels Sprouts au Jus. —Boil them a few minutes in water, and then stew them till tender in some good gravy, with a little salt and pepper. They may also be served with a white sauce or pass6 au beurre. Boil them first, and then toss them in a frying-pan, with a little butter. Do not let them brown. 382. To Boil Onions.—Peel and soak them in cold water, put them into boiling milk and water, and boil till tender. Roast onions should be done with all the skins on, and parboiled before putting them in front of the fire or in a Dutch oven to brown. Portugal onions should be parboiled, and then stewed in good broth till it comes to a demi-glaze. 383. Stewed Portugal Onions. —Peel four large onions, and put them into a quart of strong broth, with three-quarters of a pound of fine white sugar and a pinch of salt. Put this into a stew-pan, cover it close, and set it in the oven. They will require from six to eight hours’ cooking. The broth should be reduced to quite a glaze. 384. Stewed Cauliflower.—Piok and clean them well, boil them, but only partially; set them to drain, then put them into a saucepan with some veal stock, and let them simmer till tender. Now set the saucepan on the stove over a brisk fire ; thicken the sauce with a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, add a squeeze of a lemon, and serve. 385. Choufleurs au Gratin.— Prepare and boil a cauliflower, drain it, and put it on the dish in which it is to be served ; prepare a sauce with grated parmesan oheese, a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, a little lemon-juice, and the yolks of two eggs beaten in cream; beat and mix all well together, pour it over the cauliflower, grate par- mesan cheese over the top, put the dish in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Brown the top with a salamander. 386. Choufleurs k la Bechamel. —Remove all the green leaves and divide it in good-sized pieces, par- boil, and then stew it till tender in a little veal broth, with salt, pepper, and a little bit of mace. When done, take it out, pour a rich bechamel (see Sauces) over it, and serve. 387. To Stew Cabbage Lettuce. —Wash the cabbage lettuces clean in several waters, put them into a saucepan to boil for half an hour with only as much water as will barely cover them ; then take them up with a skimmer and lay them in cold water; squeeze the water from them with your hands, each lettuce separately, and place them in a small saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter mixed with a quarter of a spoonful of flour, a blade of mace, a bit of bacon as big as a thumb, stuck with cloves ; add as much veal broth as will quite cover them, also a little pepper and salt. Set them to stew over a clear fire. Winter lettuce will require au hour; for summer, half that75 VEGETABLES, time will suffice. When the broth is boiled down quite thick, and sticking to the lettuce, pour over a little clarified butter, and shake the saucepan till it unites with the broth and lettuce, but do not toss it for fear of breaking them. You may turn it out and Berve it thus, or, just before removing it from the fire, add the yolk of an egg beaten up in a little cream. Celery and endive may be done in the same way. 388. To Stew Endive.—Choose the whitest endive, pick it and blanch in boiling water, then put it in cold water; take it out and squeeze it well. Lay it on a table, and hash it a little with a knife, place it in a stew-pan with as much veal broth as will cover it, and a small bit of ham. Let it simmer over a slack fire till it gets quite thick; remove the ham. If the sauce, when it is stewed sufficiently, is not thick enough, add a little cullis. 389. To Dress Sorrel.—Pick the sorrel carefully and nip off the stalks ; set over a stove a saucepan half full of water. When it boils, put in the sorrel and scald it; take it out again at once and drain it; squeeze it as hard as you do spinach, then put it into a saucepan with a little veal broth, and Bimmer till smooth and thick over a gentle fire. When nearly done, add a very little ham sauce. (See Sauces.) 390. Stewed Sorrel.—Wash any quantity you require of the leaves clean; boil them tender in water and rub through a tammy into a stew-pan; add a slice of fresh butter and a spoonful or two of bechamel SALADS, ETC. sauce, a little salt and sugar ; stew for a few minutes, and serve. 391. Stewed Celery. — Wash and trim off the outer leaves; put it on to boil; when it is tender take it out and squeeze it well; then place it in a stew-pan with some good veal broth, and simmer it over a gentle fire. When reduced enough, thicken the sauce with a bit of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, add a few drops of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon, and serve. 392. Celery & la Creme.—Trim and wash ; if the heads are large, halve them and cut them into lengths to suit your dish ; put them into a stew-pan with a cup of weak broth or veal gravy; stew till tender; add two tablespoonfuls of cream, a pieoe of butter rolled in flour, salt, pepper, and a little white sugar. Simmer together a few minutes, and serve. 393. Asparagus & la Crfime.— Cut the green part of the asparagus in pieces an inch long, and blanch them in boiling water; then toss them in a stew-pan in a little butter or lard over the fire, but take care not to make them greasy. Add to them some cream, a bunch of herbs, a little pepper and salt; let them stew till tender. Before serving, beat up two yolks of eggs in a little cream with a teaspoonful of sugar; add it to the sauce; mix well, make it hot, and serve. 394. Asparagus au Jus.—Cut them in pieces, as above ; cut some parsley and chervil small and toss them together in a little melted lard; put in also a whole leek, which you afterwards take out; do not let them brown. SeasonDAINTY DISHES 76 with salt and pepper, and then put them in a stew-pan with a little good broth, and set them to simmer over a gentle fire. When done enough, skim off all the fat, add some beef gravy, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve. 395. To Boil Asparagus.— Scrape the stalks clean, wash them in cold water, tie them up in bundles of about twenty-five each, cut off the stalks even at the bottom about four inches from the green part; put them into a stew- pan of boiling water with a handful of salt in it; let it boil rather quick, and skim it. From twenty to thirty minutes should be enough to do them; but observe as soon as they are tender to take them out of the water, or they will be spoilt. While they are boiling toast a round of a quartern loaf, about half an inch thick, brown on both sides ; lay it in the middle of the dish and the asparagus over it; serve melted butter in which you have beaten up the yolk of an egg with them, but separately in a boat. In France asparagus is much liked cold as salad, and eaten with the following sauce: Vinegar, one tablespoonful; oil, two; quarter of a teaspoonful of salt; half that of pepper. Mix well together, and add a little minced parsley. 396. To Dress Spinach.—Boil the spinach tender without putting any water to it in a bain marie— i.e., stand the saucepan in boiling water. When it is done squeeze it between two plates, pound it in a mortar, roll it into balls, and throw them into cold water. When you want to use it, put it into a stew-pan with some cream and a vory little salt and pepper, or a small piece of butter and a few spoonfuls of soup. Let it stew quickly that it may not turn yellow, and stir it well. 397. Roties aux Epinards.— Out some slices of bread about two fingers in length and the thickness of a crown-piece. Take some spinach that has already been served stewed; mix two yolks of eggs with it, lay it on the toast, pass a knife dipped in egg over the top breadcrumb, and fry them. French beans are good dressed in the same way. The grease that runs from a goose when roasting should always be kept, as it is par- ticularly good to dress spinach with. 398. Stewed Watercresses (Cornish Receipt).—Lay the cresses in strong salt and water; pick and wash them well, and stew in water for about ten minutes; drain and chop them; return them to the stew-pan, with a bit of butter, some pepper and salt; stew till tender. Just before serving put in a little vinegar; serve with fried sippets. It is good with boiled chickens. 399. Cucumbers and Onions.— Peel the cucumbers and cut them into quarters; take out all the seeds, and cut each quarter into three pieces, and pare them round. Peel as many small onions as you have pieces of cucumbers; put them all to marinade for two hours in vinegar and water (half of each), some pepper and salt; then pour off the liquor, add as much stock as will barely cover them, boil them down to a glaze, add as much cullis as you think they require, boil a few minutes, add the juice of a lemon and a little sugar. ThisVEGETABLES, 77 SALADS, ETC. is good cither alone or with cutlets. 400. Stewed Cucumbers.—Pare some cucumbers, cut them down the middle in two, remove the seeds, and trim them into oval- shaped pieces; put them to mari- nade for two hours in vinegar, with two or three sliced onions, some pepper and salt; then squeeze them dry in a linen cloth, put them in a saucepan, and toss them in a little melted bacon or lard. When they begin to grow brown add some good gravy, and set them to simmer over a stove. When nearly ready to serve, skim the fat from them, and thicken with cullis. 401. Vegetable Marrow. — When full grown cut them in four lengthways, remove the seeds, stew them in vinegar and water and fat bacon or butter. When tender, pour over them a bechamel sauce. If small and young, boil them whole. Serve them on toast with a bechamel round them, and a squeeze of lemon-juice over. 402. Artichokes h la Crime.— Boil them in water ; when they are done enough, drain them well. About half an hour is sufficient to cook them if they are young. Toss them in butter in a stew-pan, add to them some cream and a bunch of chives and parsley. Let them stew a little, thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg; season with salt and a little cayenne. 403. Artichoke - Bottoms au Blanc.—Trim them neatly round, leave on the tender leaves at the heart; blanch them in salt and water. When they are so far done that you may remove the leaves and choke without breaking the bottoms, take them out and lay them in cold water. Then prepare the following ‘ blanc,’ which is also good for all sorts of vegetables : Cut about half a pound of bacon- fat into large dice, also a little beef-suet ; add two ounces of butter, a little salt, and half a lemon cut in thin slices, and as much water as will cover the vegetables you wish to stew in it. Let it simmer half an hour, then put in the artichokes and stew them till they are quite tender, which will be in about half an hour. Take them out, drain them, and serve with a sauce espagnole. (See Sauces.) 404. Jerusalem Artichokes.— Cut one or two onions into half rings, brown them lightly in oil; trim the artichokes, and put them into the pan with the onions a little minced, and scallions, salt, and pepper. Toss them two or three times ; as soon as they are tender dish them. Put a spoonful of vinegar in the saucepan, boil it up, and pour it over them. Jerusalem artichokes are also good plain boiled, and served with a bechamel sauce or fried in butter, like salsifis (which see), or roasted, and served on a napkin. 405. Salsifis en Salade or Aspic.—Take enough salsifis to fill a mould the size of the dish you require; boil them in water enough for them to swim in, with a little salt, a bit of butter, and the juice of a lemon. Before boiling you must scrape off the outside skin, and throw each bit as you prepare it into vinegar and water, which prevents their turning black. They will take three-quarters of an hour to boil. Be sure that they are tender. Drain them and cut78 DAINTY DISHES them in pieces to fit the mould; arrange them as for a chartreuse, dipping each piece into aspio to make it stick round the mould ; fill the centre with a salad of small bits of salsifis cut of the same size; season with salt and pepper; add oil, vinegar, some aspic, and parsley chopped very fine; mix well to- gether, fill up the mould with aspic, and set it on the ice. When you wish to serve, wrap a cloth dipped in hot water round the mould and turn it out on the dish. 406. Fried Salsifis. — Make a batter as follows : Six spoonfuls of flour, a small pinch of salt, a spoon- ful of oil; beat the whole together with as much beer as will make it into batter, but not very liquid; then whip the whites of two eggs, and when well beaten pour them into the batter, which keep stirring gently. Boil the salsifis as in the preceding recipe. Dry them well on a cloth; dip each piece separ- ately into the batter, and throw them into hot lard ; fry them crisp and of a golden colour; sprinkle a little salt over them and serve, gar- nished with fried parsley. Jeru- salem artichokes and artichoke- bottoms are excellent dressed in the same way. 407. To Dress Beetroot and Small Onions with a Sauce Piquante. — Take two or three beetroots, wash them clean, and be careful not to break any of the fibres, otherwise they will lose then- colour in boiling. Boil them till tender, with two or three dozen button onions. When they are done, take off the skins and the outside fibres of the beetroot and slice it down ; stew it in the follow- ing sauce for ten minutes: Take an ordinary-sized onion, mince it small, and fry it brown in a little butter; add a little flour and brown that also; then put in a ladleful of soup, the juice of a lemon, and some salt and pepper. When it is done, dish the onions in the centre, the beetroot and sauce round, and serve very hot. 408. Fricassee of Beetroot.— Boil some beetroots tender, slice them, and put them into a sauce- pan with some parsley, chives, and sweet herbs minced fine ; a little bit of shallot, a pinch of flour, salt, pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar or more. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, and it will be ready to serve. 409. Stewed Beetroot. — Bake beetroots in an oven till they are tender; take them out, and when they are cold remove the outside, cut them in slices, and pour a little vinegar over them; then put them into a stew-pan with as much gravy as will cover them; simmer for half an hour. Thicken the gravy before serving with some cream in which you have mixed a slice or two of beetroot beaten up in the mortar to give it a fine colour. 410. Tomatoes.—Scrape out the inside of eight tomatoes, drain, rub them through a sieve; add one ounce of breadcrumbs, the same of butter, salt, and a very little cayenne. Put this back into the skins and bake for ten minutes. Serve with a cullis sauce round them. 411. Tomates Farcies. — Take the pips out, and fill the tomatoes with sausage-meat mixed with a very little bit of garlic, some pars- ley, tarragon, and small onions minced fine; put them into aVEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 79 tourte,’ or silver souffl4-pan, cover them with breadcrumbs, and bake. Just as you send them up, which you must do in the dish they were cooked in, squeeze over some lemon- juice. 412. Tomatoes au Jus.—Stew the tomatoes whole in some good gravy, drain them on a sieve, and pour over them a little gravy reduced to a half-glaze, and a tea- spoonful of vinegar in it quite hot. 413. Tomatoes Stewed.—Stew them in a little fresh butter till quite tender, and squeeze a little lemon - juice over them before serving. Tomatoes are also excel- lent roasted in the Dutch oven, with only a few little bits of butter to prevent their sticking to the pan. About twenty minutes will cook them. 414. Laver.—Is usually bought prepared in pots, and then merely requires heating over a lamp and a squeeze of lemon added to it. Serve over a lamp that it may be very hot. If you pick it fresh by the seaside it requires most careful washing in many waters to get rid of the sand. Salt water is best, if you can get it quite clear, to wash it in. It should then be slowly stewed for many hours in weak veal broth till it is quite a pulp ; add more broth if it gets too dry. 415. Grilled Mushrooms.— Choose large, fresh mushrooms; skin them and remove the stalks; lay them on a dish with a little fine oil, pepper and salt over them; let them stand an hour, and then broil on a gridiron over a clear, sharp fire. Serve them either dry on a ‘.oast or with the following sauce : Mince the stalks or any spare pieces of the mushrooms fine, put them into a stew-pan with a little broth, some chopped parsley and young onions, butter, and the juice of a lemon, or instead of the two latter the yolk of an egg beat up in some cream. Beat all thoroughly together and pour round the mush- rooms. 416. Mushroom Toasts.—Put some moderate-sized mushrooms skinned and cleaned into a stew- pan with the juice of a lemon, a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, three cloves, some green onions, parsley, and sweet savory, tied up together in a bit of muslin; set them over a moderate fire, and let them stew gently till nearly dry ; give them a dust of flour, add some veal broth, and let them stew a quarter of an hour. Take out the herbs, etc., and thicken the sauce with two eggs beaten up in a little cream. Cut the top off a French roll, remove the crumb, butter and toast it, and then pour in the mushrooms and sauce, and serve. 417. Ragout of Mushrooms.— Skin and cut them in slices, toss them in melted lard or butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and minced parsley; moisten with broth and a spoonful of cullis. Just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon. 418. Mushrooms Farcie.— Take some large mushrooms, skin and trim them, stew them in a little broth, but not too much; take them out and put in the stalks and trimmings, stew them till quite tender, drain them, mince them very fine, mix them with a little butter, some pepper, salt, and a very little minced parsley; lay this on the inside of the mushrooms;DAINTY DISHES 80 strew fine breadcrumbs over tbem, and bake in a Dutch oven. 419. Mushrooms k la Crfime.— Cut the mushrooms in pieces and toss them over a brisk fire in butter seasoned with salt, a very little nutmeg, and a bunch of herbs. When they are done enough and the butter nearly all wasted away, take out the herbs; add the yolji of an egg beaten up in some good cream, make very hot, and serve. 420. To Dress Truffles.—Having peeled the truffles, cut them in slices, wash and drain them well; put them into a small saucepan with some essence of ham, or ham- sauce (see Sauces), and set them on to stew gently over a slack fire. When they are quite tender, bind them with a good cullis, and serve. 421. Truffles Maigre. — After having peeled, cut and wash the truffles as in the last recipe; put them into a stew-pan with some fish stock; season with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and stew them over a gentle fire. When they are done enough, thicken the sauce with roux, take out the herbs, and serve. 422. Truffles au Vin de Cham- pagne.—Take ten or twelve fine truffles, put them in warm water, brush them clean and change the water; brush them again, and rinse them thoroughly in fresh water that they may be quite clean; drain them, cover the bottom of a stew-pan with shoes of bacon, and put in the truffles; season with a little salt, a bunch of parsley and scallions; add a little good stock, and half a bottle of champagne. Make them boil. Cover the top of the stew-pan first with paper, and then with the lid. Put fire over as well as under, and leave them to cook an hour. Ascertain if they are done enough by pressing them. If they are, drain them on a cloth, and serve in a folded napkin; if not, let them stew longer. A slice or two of ham may also be added. 423. Morels in Cream.—Having taken off the stalks of the morels, cut them in two, and wash them in several waters that they may not be gritty; put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter; season with salt, pepper, a bunch of herbs, and a little shred parsley; toss them over the stove, then moisten with some good broth, and set them to simmer over a slack fire. Make a thickening with the yolks of two eggs beaten up with cream; take out the herbs, add this to the sauce, and serve. Mush- rooms may be dressed in the same manner, and morels are good done in the different ways mushrooms are. 424. Gorman Salad.—The fillets of four salt herrings chopped very small, one beetroot and four boiled potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs, two russet apples, two stalks of celery, all minced fine. (For sauce, see Salad Sauces.) 425. Anchovy Salad.—Wash them in fresh water till the liquor be clear, then dry them on a linen cloth. Cut off the tails and fins, and bone them; split them and lay them on a dish. Mince young onions, parsley, beetroot, and lettuce; arrange it round them. Beat up oil and lemon-juice to- gether and pour it over. 426. Lobster Salad.—Kub two hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, add to them two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, the same ofVEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 81 common vinegar, and one of chili, two teaspoonfuls of ketchup, and the same of anchovy sauce, some cayenne pepper, mustard and salt; mince some parsley, tarragon, and a little shallot very fine, and mix with the sauce ; then add six table- spoonfuls of the best olive-oil or thick cream. Mix all these well together with the inside of the head and coral of the lobster. Cut the meat of the tail into pieces, and the claws in two; lay them in a bowl or deep dish, pour the sauce over, and then heap the salad on the top—lettuce, endive, cucumber, small salad, etc. Salmon is equally good done in this way. The cold salmon should be cut into fillets, and may either be served in the same way, or the fillets ranged round the sauce in the centre, and surrounded with the salad and slices of cucumber. 427. Salad of Lobster or Crab. ■—Chop one large onion, two sour apples, and the meat of ope crab or lobster together ; pour over it three spoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar. Season with cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 428. Salade de Poulets aux Concombres.—Choose three good cucumbers, cut off both ends, peel and cut them in quarters, take out the seeds, and cut them in oval pieces of an equal size; blanch them in water with a little salt and vinegar : stew them in a ‘ blanc ’ (see No. 403). When sufficiently done, drain them and lay them aside to cool. Take the white meat of a previously-cooked chicken, cut it in scollops the same size as the cucumbers ; dish them alternately. Tut small salad in the centre, and pour over a good salad sauce (see Cold Sauces) in which a little bechamel or aspic has been mixed. Minced parsley or chervil may be added. 429. Endive Salad k la Fran- gaise.—Wash and dry the endive quickly, as leaving it in the water makes it bitter. It should be well blanched, and any green parts left out. Rub a salad-bowl with a clove of garlic, slice the endive into it, add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of pepper, five table- spoonfuls of good oil, and two of vinegar. Rub a piece of garlic on two crusts of bread, each about the size of a walnut; add them to the salad, which you must stir well with a wooden fork and spoon for a few minutes, and then serve. 430. Salad k la Tartare.—Well wash and dry the salad—cabbage or cos lettuce ; boil four onions; when cold, cut them in slices. Cut also four pickled cucumbers. Put salad at the bottom, then cucum- bers and onions, and again salad. Have ready two Dutch salt her- rings ; broil them, but not too much. Take out all the bones, and cut them in small, square pieces, and add them to the salad. Pour over three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and five of oil. Season with salt and pepper, and mix all well together. 431. Chaudfroid en Salade.— Prepare a fricassee of chicken, pouring the sauce over it, so that when it is cold it may adhere all over. Cut up any salad that may be in season—lettuce, endive, etc. —place it in the middle of the dish, and just moisten it with tarragon vinegar, oil, and a little mustard worked up in it. Arrange the chicken round it, place some of the cold fricassee sauce on the topi B82 DAINTY DISHES garnish with aspic jelly, or sur- round it with a border of aspic made in a mould. Cold salmi of partridge or grouse is good in the same way. 432. Boiled Salad.—Boil tender beetroot, potatoes, Brussels sprouts, and celery ; shoe the two first, and cut the celery in largish pieces. There should not be many sprouts. Pour over a rich salad sauce (see Sauces). The vegetables must be cold. This salad may be made of any sort of vegetables which are improved by being cooked in a blanc (see No. 403), such as Jeru- salem artichokes, cucumbers, Por- tugal onions, French beans, aspara- gus tops, etc. 433. Of Preserving Veget- ables, etc.—German housekeepers are especially skilful in preserving vegetables and fruits, so that you may eat them all the year round, as fresh as if only just brought from the garden. This they do by a simple and well-known process, but as the compiler has never seen it described in any cookery-book, and as anybody with a little care can do it for themselves, she has thought it may not be uninterest- ing to describe it: Vegetables pre- served in hermetically closed tin boxes may be preserved fresh for years, but as soon as the box is once open, the vegetables will not keep long; it is therefore better not to have the boxes made too large, but of such a size that they hold as much vegetables as should serve for an ordinary dish; they should be made of good, strong tin, and have round the inside edge of the box a rim so that a flat piece of tin can be laid on it as a lid, and soldered to the outside edge. The boxes must be first boiled in potash and water, and then well rinsed in clean hot water. Care must be taken that all the vegetables used are young and perfectly fresh: as for fruits, they must be preserved in bottles, as their acid acting on the metal would give them an un- pleasant taste. The best vegetables for preserving are peas, French beans, broad beans, young carrots, cauliflower and asparagus. With the exception of the peas and asparagus, they should be half- boiled, with as little water as pos- sible, and not much salt, as that can always be added when they are cooked. Peas should be shelled and boiled in a little broth without any salt not longer than a quarter of an hour, and asparagus should only be washed clean and closely packed in the boxes. Vegetables are to be laid in the boxes while they are still hot; they are not to be filled fuller than half a little finger’s breadth from the top ; you are then to pour over each some of the liquor they were boiled in, and in the case of the asparagus plain boiling water, leaving still about as much room as two straws would take between the top and the lid, or the boxes could not be soldered, which they are now ready for, and which is the most important part of the whole process, for if they are not made perfectly air-tight all your labour will have been in vain, so you should take care to have a trustworthy tinsmith in attendance, and let him wait till you have quite finished, that he may be at hand to close with solder any little aper- ture which may be discovered in the course of boiling, and which will be seen by small air-bubbles rising from the spot continuouslySALADS, ETC. VEGETABLES, 83 to the top of the water. When the boxes are perfectly soldered, place them in a large kettle or pan of boiling water, where they must boil uninterruptedly for two hours ; if the water boils away, add more, but mind it is also boiling ; at the end of this time take them out and place them in cold water, which you must often renew, so that they may cool as rapidly as possible. Many people, however, leave them to cool in the water they were boiled in, pretending that you can then with a greater certainty know if they have been perfectly soldered; if this is the case, the hd will be slightly depressed inwards, if not, it will be bulged outwards, and then they must be done over again. This also is a certain sign by which you may know, on examining the boxes (which you should do from time to time), if they are keeping well; any that are bulged should be immediately opened and used, if they are still fit for it. To stew the vegetables, put a piece of butter in a glazed saucepan, and when it begins to boil stir in a tablespoon- ful of flour, then add the vegetables, and as much of their juice as is necessary, a bit more fresh butter, some salt, and a little pepper, and if for peas or carrots, a piece of sugar. Asparagus may be boiled in its own juice, with the neces- sary quantity of salt, and served as usual, with melted butter; cauli- flower heated in its own liquor and served with a Bechamel sauce, and French beans sliced and heated in the same way, with the addition of a piece of butter, some minced parsley, and a squeeze of a lemon over them when ready to serve. Fruit must be preserved in wide- mouthed, strong glass bottles, filled with boiling water to within a thumb’s-breadth of the cork, then corked down tight, the corks tied down, and the bottles set in a pan or kettle of cold water, so deep that it comes half-way up the bottles, hay filled in between them, and allowed slowly to boil from ten to twenty minutes, according to the size of the bottles. They must then be taken out and dried, the corks well covered with rosin, and put away in a cool place. The vegetable boxes should also be kept cool. Eggs, Cbeese, Entremets, Etc 434. German Omelette.—Fry a quarter of a pound of bacon cut in dice. When done, beat up eight eggs with some pepper and salt; add them to the bacon, and fry all together. Stir till it gets thick, and turn it into the dish you mean to serve it in very hot. 435. A very light Omelette. A quarter of a pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs beaten well together with a little cayenne and a little salt; then add a small piece of shallot and a little parsley minced very fine; mix well to- gether ; whip the whites of five eggs, and stir into the omelette till very light; melt a little butter in the frying-pan, and porn- in the eggs; do them over a quick fire for five minutes. Serve it very hot,84 DAINTY DISHES with or without a good gravy over it. This is an excellent recipe. 436. Omelette.—Two yolks of eggs and one white, a tablespoonful of cream, a little minced parsley and shallot, and a very little nut- meg. Whisk all well together, and fry in as little butter as possible. Very good. 437. Omelette aux Fines Herbes.—Break six very fresh eggs into a basin ; add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of pepper, two of minced parsley, and half a one of minced onion; beat them well together. Put into a clean dry frying-pan two ounces of butter; set it on the fire, and when the butter is hot pour in the eggs. Keep mixing quickly with a spoon till it is lightly set, then tilt the pan sideways so as to let the omelette slip to the edge, which will make it of an oval shape. Let it set a minute, and turn it over on to a hot dish and serve. If you wish it to be flavoured with par- mesan or gruyere cheese, leave out the parsley and onions, and put two tablespoonfuls of the cheese grated to the eggs. 438. Buttered Eggs.—Put in a stew-pan two ounces of butter; break four fresh eggs into it; add a tablespoonful of chopped mush- rooms or truffles, half a teaspoon- ful of salt, and a quarter one of pepper. Set it on the fire and stir continually with a wooden spoon till it is of a good consistency. Have ready some slices of buttered toast on a hot dish ; pour the eggs on to them, and serve. 439. Eggs k la Bonne Femme. —Cut a middle-sized onion in dice; fry them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter a light brown ; add a tea- spoonful of vinegar when done; then butter a dish lightly, spread the onion over it, break the eggs into it, and put the dish in the oven. When the eggs are done, strew them over with fried bread- crumbs, and serve very hot. 440. Eggs k la Provengale.— Take the yolks of eight and the whites of five eggs; beat them well; add a spoonful of cullis or brown sauce, a little minced green onion and parsley, pepper and salt; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; squeeze in the juice of a lemon or orange, and serve with fried bread, or put them into small moulds. When done enough, turn them out, and serve with a sauce of cullis seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. 441. Egg Vermicelli. — Boil eight yolks of eggs hard ; add three ounces of butter to them; pound them together, and rub all through a coarse sieve into the dish it is to be served in, on which you have previously laid cold toast buttered. 442. Ham and Eggs.—Cut an ounce of well-cooked ham in small dice; put it into a pan with an ounce of fresh butter and three eggs, a little pepper, and a spoon- ful of chopped chervil. Stir con- tinually till the eggs are enough done. They should not be very stiff. Serve on toast. 443. Eggs en Caisse. — Make some small paper boxes. Take a piece of butter and mix it with some stale crumbs of bread, a little minced parsley, salt, and cayenne pepper. Butter the bottoms of the boxes; then put in some of this mixture; break an egg into each box, cover it over with bread- crumbs ; see that the boxes are85 EGGS, CHEESE, ENTREMETS, ETC. filled; put them on the gridiron for two or three minutes, pass a salamander over the top, and serve. 444. Des (Eufs au Soleil.— Poach about eight fresh eggs very nicely; take them out and put them into cold water; when they are cool lay them for about a quarter of an hour to marinade in a glass of white wine vinegar, with some sweet herbs ; then dry them upon a cloth, dip them in a batter prepared with flour mixed with equal quantities of ale and water till it is of the right consistency, about the thickness of double cream. Fry them of a nice light brown in hot lard. Serve upon a bed of fried parsley. 445. Timbales of Eggs au Jus de Perdrix.—Take a partridge, split it down the back, notch the breast and legs; put it into a small stew-pan with a bit of ham, an onion, a carrot, and a little parsley. Pour in a spoonful or two of broth, and let it stew gently till it is dry and brown at the bottom. Add a ladleful more broth, and let it boil gently for about a quarter of an hour. Then strain it through a linen sieve, take off the fat, add a little salt and pepper, and when cool pour in six or seven eggs pre- viously well beaten; pass it through a tammy, and pour it into small china cups or timbale moulds. Place them in a pan of hot water ; let it boil till you perceive they are set like custard; turn them out, and pour the same gravy over them. 446. Curried Eggs. — Slice two onions, fry them brown in a little butter, add a pint of broth and a tablespoonful of curry - powder ; stew till quite tender. Thicken a cup of cream with some arrowroot or rice-flour ; mix it with the broth, etc.; simmer a few minutes, and add six or eight hard-boiled eggs cut into slices; heat them tho- roughly in the sauce, but do not let them boil. 447. CEufs au Bouillon.—Put into a stew-pan six yolks of fresh eggs and two whites, with six spoonfuls of good stock; mix all well together, and pass it through a sieve. Butter some small moulds; let them drain and cool; pour the eggs into the moulds and set them in a pan of boiling water on the fire. When they have properly taken, turn them out with care on a dish, and serve with a rich gravy round them. 448. Les CEufs en Fricassee.— Put a piece of butter in a stew-pan with some finely-minced parsley and green onions, a teacupful of broth, and a shake of flour ; reduce it a little and skim it well. Boil some eggs hard, cut them in slices not too thin, and put them in with a little salt and pepper. Beat up the yolk of an egg in a small cup- ful of cream; add this to the rest, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix well, make very hot, and serve with sippets of toasted or fried bread. 449. (Eufs Farcies.—Boil some fresh eggs hard ; cut them carefully in halves lengthways, first remov- ing the shell; take out the yolks and beat them up with a bit of butter, some breadcrumbs soaked in milk and squeezed dry, a little minced parsley, pepper and salt. Add cream enough to moisten the paste, fill the whites to the original shape of the egg, oover the top86 DAINTY DISHES •with breadcrumbs, and fry in butter of a light brown. 450. CEufs sur le Plat.—Break five or more fried eggs carefully into a dish, so that the yolks are at equal distances from each other. Pour a little hot butter on them, either browned or not. Strew them lightly with breadcrumbs, and put them into a moderate oven till the white is well set. 451. CEufs enPurde.—Boil some fresh eggs hard ; let them get cold; take out the yolks and beat them in a mortar with butter, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three raw eggs ; chop the whites small, and stew them a few minutes in a little good gravy without letting them boil; pass the yolks through a colander into the dish they are to be served in. Arrange the whites round, garnish with sippets of bread dipped in egg, place the dish in an oven, and serve as soon as it is browned. 452. Fried Eggs.—Put into a frying-pan some olive-oil or butter; set it over the stove, and when it boils raise the handle of the pan that the liquid may run to one side. Break an egg carefully into the pan, and with a pierced ladle throw the boiling oil or fat over the egg, which will cause the white to boil up and cover the yolk. As soon as one is cooked, take it out with the strainer, and do another in the same way, till you have enough. Take care to keep them hot. They should be a nice light brown, and may be served with a puree of tomatoes, a sauce piquante, or a good gravy, and seasoned with pepper and salt. 453. CEufs au Fromage.—Place in the dish you will serve them in, and which must be strong enough to resist the fire, a piece of butter, a little oil, and some slices of good rich cheese. "When it is melted, break whole eggs into it, put the dish in the oven or before the fire. When the whites set, sprinkle grated cheese and pepper on them. Brown at the top, and serve as hot as possible. 454. CEufs aux Truffes.—Mince fine a slice or two of bacon; put it with a little butter in a saucepan over a slow fire. When it has cooked a few minutes, pour it into the dish the eggs are to be served in ; add a spoonful of gravy and a little white wine. Break into it the quantity of eggs you require, being careful not to break the yolks ; add salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. When they are quite set, stew over the top minced truffles, which have been previously stewed in butter. 455. Boiled Cheese.—Take four ounoes of cheese (single Gloucester or Dunlop do well), two ounces of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of cream; cut the cheese into thin slices; put all into a stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire. Stir it till it boils and is quite smooth. Take off the pan; break an egg into it, stir both yolk and white quickly in; put it in a dish, and brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. 456. Fromage Cuit.—Cut half a pound of Cheshire cheese into thin slices ; pound it well in a mortar ; add by degrees the well-beaten yolks of two and the white of one egg; also, half a pint of cream. Mix well together, and bake on a dish for ten or fifteen minutes. 457. Stewed Cheese. — Melt three-quarters of an ounce of fresh87 EGGS, CHEESE, ENTREMETS, ETC. butter in a teacupful of cream; mix with a quarter of an ounce of good cheese, finely grated ; beat it well together, stew till it is quite smooth, stirring all the time. Serve upon well toasted bread, and brown the top with a salamander. 458. Cheese Toasts. — Grate three ounces of Gloucester cheese ; mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, a little salt and cayenne pepper. Toast some bread thin and crisp, cut it into neat pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven, covered with a dish, till hot through; then re- move the cover, let the cheese brown a little, and serve as hot as possible. 459. Fondu.—A quarter of a pound of fine flour well dried, half a pint of cream, a piece of butter the size of a nut; mix them well together in a stew-pan over a slow fire, stirring constantly till it is quite thick, and smooth ; then add the yolks of five eggs, half a pint of new milk, and two ounces of grated parmesan cheese. Stir all together, but not over the fire. Beat up the whites of the five eggs to a strong froth, and mix it very lightly with the other ingredients. Bake in a souffle-dish or paper case in a gentle oven for half an hour. Take care it is served the moment it comes out of the oven, or it will fall and become heavy. 460. Ramequins. — Take a quarter of a pint of milk, one ounce of butter, and boil together, adding two spoonfuls of flour ; stir constantly till quite hot. Mix in smoothly four whole eggs, and two ounces of grated parmesan cheese. Fill small paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven a little more than a quarter of an hour. 461. Ramequins Souffld.—Melt one ounce of butter ; mix into it a spoonful of flour and a little salt; stir for a few minutes over the fire. Have ready boiled half a pint of milk, and a quarter pint of cream. Pour this on the butter and flour by degrees, and work it perfectly smooth. Take the pan off the fire and add half a pound of grated parmesan cheese, a little pepper, a very little powdered sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of two well beaten. When well mixed, add the other six whites, beaten to a froth. It should then be about the consistency of cream. Fill paper cases, but not quite to the top, and bake in a slow oven eighteen minutes. 462. Ramequins h la Sefton.— Make half a pound of puff paste (see Pastry); roll it four times, then sprinkle some grated parmesan cheese all over it; roll it out four times more, repeating the sprink- ling of cheese between each rolling ; cut the paste with a cutter in any form you please; sprinkle cheese over the top, and bake them a good brown in a moderate oven. Serve very hot on a napkin. 463. Failles au Parmesan, or Cheese Straws.—Take six ounces of flour, four of butter, two of cream, three of grated parmesan cheese, the slightest grating of nut- meg, two grains of cayenne, a little salt, and white pepper; mix the whole well together, roll it out, and cut it in strips the size and thick- ness of a straw. They must beDA INTY DISHES 88 baked in a moderate oven, should be quite crisp, and of a pale colour. Serve very hot in the second course. 464. Cheese and Ale. — Cut some good Gloucester cheese into thin slices, carefully removing the rind; lay them in a dish over a lamp ; spread each piece of cheese with mustard, and pour over as much strong ale as will cover them; stew till the cheese is quite dis- solved. Toast and ale should be served with this. The toast should be thick, and well browned, and hot ale, with or without spices, poured over it. 465. Canapes.—Take the crumb of a large loaf; cut it in slices three-quarters of an inch thick; cut this into any shape you please, and fry a good colour in oil. Mince separately the yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs, capers, cucum- bers, some herbs (such as chervil and tarragon), and some small salad, fillet some anchovies, and put all this in a little of the best oil. Season the canapes that are fried with salt, pepper, and vinegar; arrange the salad on them, with the anchovies on the top; dress them neatly in the dish, and gar- nish with hard-boiled eggs, ham, beetroot, small herbs, capers, an- chovies, etc. 466. Roties d’Anchois.—Toast some slices of bread, cut thin and in neat slices, and then soak in a little good oil. Take some ancho- vies, a little rasped lemon-peel, onion or shallot, parsley or chervil, tarragon and burnet, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; mince all together very small, and mix well. Drain the toasts from the oil as much as possible; spread the mix- ture pretty thick on them ; arrange on the dish they are to be served on, and pour over a sauce made with two spoonfuls of oil, one of lemon-juice, some mustard, and a little pepper. 467. Rdties h la Minime.—Cut some slices of bread about two fingers’ length and the thickness of a crown-piece; put them into a stew-pan with a little oil over a gentle fire; turn them often till they acquire a good colour. Dress them on your dish, and lay some shoes of well-washed anchovy or sardines on them. Add to the oil you fried the bread in some minced shallot, parsley, green onion, minced thyme, sweet basil, a bay- leaf, some whole pepper, and a little vinegar; boil it a moment, pour over the toast, and serve cold. The bay-leaf, sweet herbs, and pepper to be removed. 468. Salmagundi. — Wash and bone two large Dutch or Lochfine herrings; mince the meat fine; take the breast of a cold roast chicken, skin it and mince it; also two hard-boiled eggs, an onion, an anchovy, and a little grated ham or tongue. Mix well together; moisten with salad oil and vinegar, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper. Serve on toast. 469. Indian Sandwiches. — Cut the breast of a roast fowl or pheasant in very small square pieces, also about four ounces of tongue or lean ham, four anchovies washed and filleted; mix well with the chicken, and put it into a stew- pan with two spoonfuls of veloute sauce, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, half a teaspoonful of chutnee, the juice of half a lemon, and a little salt and pepper. Boil for a few minutes on the stove, mixingEGOS. CHEESE. ENTREMETS, ETC. 89 well. Have ready prepared some thin slices of bread cut with a circular cutter, as many as you re- quire for your dish, fry them in oil of a bright yellow, drain them on a napkin, and place half of them on a baking-sheet covered with clean paper ; spread a thick layer of the above preparation on each, and cover with another croftton. Next grate four ounces of parmesan cheese, mix it into a paste with butter, divide it into as many parts as there are sandwiches, roll each into a round ball, and place one on the top of each sandwich. About ten minutes before serving put them into the oven; let them be thoroughly heated; pass a red-hot salamander over them; dish on a napkin; and serve. 470. Minced Sandwiches. — Cut some thin slices of bread, fry them crisp in oil; take some ham or tongue, and any sort of game or poultry. Cut in thin small slices a few pickled gherkins and olives—there should be equal pro- portions of each; mince fine, and mix well; moisten with a sauce made of a spoonful of shallot vine- gar, a little oil, mustard, and a little sugar, worked well together ; spread the mixture on the toast, and lay another piece on the top; cut them of a neat shape, and not too large. 471. Anchovy Toast.—Bone a few anchovies, pound them in a mortar or mince very fine with dried parsley, half a clove of garlic, a little cayenne, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a very little salad oil. Servo on toasted bread, or bread fried in oil. 472. Croutons aux Rognons are best made with ve^l kidneys. Take two, cut them in small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with some butter, salt, and two or three onions minced; let them stew till they are tender. Meanwhile, put into another saucepan a piece of butter, a spoonful of flour, and a little broth. Reduce it till it is thick; then put in the kidneys, four whole eggs, some finely - minced parsley, and a little grated nutmeg ; stir well together over the fire for a few minutes, and let it get cold. Cut some shoes of French roU of the day before’s baking ; dip them in milk in which you have beaten up an egg. Spread the mince on them thickly. Fry them in hot oil or clarified butter, and serve very hot. 473. Ravioli k la Napolitaine. —Take some of the best Naples macaroni, parmesan cheese, good fresh butter, a dozen fivers of chickens, some celery, an onion or two, some carrots and turnips. Begin by mincing the fivers and vegetables very fine, and put them into a saucepan to cook in a little butter over a gentle fire. Mean- while blanch the macaroni, add pepper and a little fine spice ; and when done enough let it drain. Now take the dish you mean to serve it in, and which should be rather deep and able to stand the fire; lay some macaroni first in the dish, then a layer of the minced fivers and vegetables, then one of grated parmesan cheese, and so on till the dish is full enough. You should end with a layer of cheese. Then set the dish over a gentle fire on the stove or in the oven and let. it cook for a few minutes. Brown it on the top, and serve very hot. JDAINTY DISHES 90 474. Macaroni k la Napoli- mesan cheese, a very little nutmeg, tame.—-Put a pound of macaroni some pepper, salt, and as much into boning water, with a piece of cream as will make sufficient butter, some salt, and an onion sauce. Let the whole stew gently stuck with cloves. Let it boil for together a few minutes, and serve three-quarters of an hour; then very hot. These are genuine Nea- dram the macaroni, and put it into politan recipes, a saucepan with some grated par- ffm&Wnos, 3elltes, pastry iStc. 475. Gateau au Riz. — Two handfuls of rice, a small quantity of lemon-peel, half a laurel-leaf, and a pint of milk; boil together till it is quite dry, then put in the yolks of three eggs and one white ; sweeten to taste with moist sugar. Butter a mould, shake in some fine breadcrumbs, put in the rice, and bake three-quarters of an hour. 476. Gateau deNouilles.—Take the yolks of five eggs and the white of one, and as much flour as will work it into a stiff paste ; roll it out as thin as a wafer, then roll it up very lightly and cut it in strings as fine as a packthread; shake it to- gether and throw it into water ready boiling on the fire, and let it boil five minutes ; then put it into a colander, and let some cold water run through it; drain it well; butter a mould, sprinkle it all over with fine breadcrumbs, then put in the nouilles mixed with a quarter of a pound of sugar and the grated peel of a lemon. Melt two ounces of butter and pour over them, sprinkle some breadcrumbs on the top, and bake three-quarters of an hour. A gateau of macaroni or vermicelli may be made in the same way, previously boiling them tender in a little milk with some seasoning, and the yolks of two eggs may be added. 477. Rice Pudding without Eggs.—Put half a pound of rice well washed into three pints of milk, with half a pound of moist sugar. Bake till the rice is tender. 478. Tapioca Pudding.—Boil a pint of cream and a pint of milk with some sugar, a pinch of salt, and the rind of a lemon; when boiling, put in half a pound of tapioca and let it simmer over a slow fire till quite tender, then add a small piece of butter and six eggs, previously beaten; mix well, and pom it either into a dish or mould, and bake till it is brown on the top ; if baked in a mould, the mould should be buttered and strewed with breadcrumbs, which makes it turn out better. Tapioca swells very much, and requires a long time cooking. If boiled over a strong fire and too quickly it becomes tough, therefore this is to be avoided. 479. Poor Man’s Tapioca Pud- ding.—Put into a stew-pan five ounces of tapioca, one pint of new milk, five ounces of sugar, and a little salt; stir this over the fire till it boils, then cover the stew-PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. pan with its lid and let it simmer for twenty minutes; add a small piece of butter melted in a little cream and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour into a well-buttered pudding-dish, and bake for a quarter of an hour. 480. A Pudding without Eggs. —Boil a pint of milk; take a thick slice of bread and grate it down fine, pour the boiling milk over and cover it close up for half an hour ; then add some marmalade, grated lemon, or any other flavouring you like, sugar to taste, and half a teaspoonful of salt. If you like you may also add a glass of wine. Pour all together into a pudding- dish and bake for a quarter of an hour. 481. Arrowroot Pudding. — One tablespoonful of arrowroot, half a pint of milk, and a small quantity of lemon-peel; put it on a slow fire and stir till it boils ; then add the yolks of four eggs, a glass of white wine, and a teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Beat up the whites of four eggs and stir them in lightly. Sweeten to taste with loaf-sugar. Butter a mould, place dried cherries round it, or in any form you fancy, and pour in the pudding. Set the mould in a stew-pan of water, and steam for half an hour, with fire on the lid of the stew-pan, which makes it light. Serve with an arrowroot and wine sauce. 482. Custard Pudding.—Half a pint of thin cream or new milk, a little loaf sugar, a small bit of laurel-leaf, a very little cinnamon, and a small quantity of lemon-peel. Put it on the fire, and let it boil; then let it stand till it is cold, when add the yolks of five eggs; strain through a sieve, butter small moulds, put the custard into them, steam twenty minutes. Serve with either a wine or custard sauce. 483. Baked Custard Pudding. —Make the custard with eight yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream or new milk, half a lemon-peel grated, two spoonfuls of orange- flower water, and two ounces of sugar. Boil the milk and add the eggs when cold; then strain; line a pudding-dish with tart paste, placing some round the edge ; put in the custard, and bake till set; or line a mould with biscuit paste, fill it with flour, and bake it. When done, take out the flour, fill it with the custard, and put it again in the oven till the custard is set and brown at the top. 484. Sago Custard Puddings. —Take a spoonful and a half of sago, and put it into a saucepan with as much water as will cover it, a drop of cinnamon, three blades of mace, and some lemon-peel, and set it on to boil. When you find it clear and thoroughly done, add to it half a pint of new milk, and keep stirring it over the fire. When it becomes thick, take it off, remove the seasoning, beat the yolks of four and the white of one egg well up with half a pint of cream; sweeten to taste; then take the milk and sago boiling hot, and mix well with the cream and eggs. Put it into small moulds, and bake or steam for ten minutes. Tapioca may be done in the same way. 485. Ground Bice Custard Puddings.—Boil a pint of new milk with a bay-leaf, two or three bitter ahnonds, and some brown sugar, for a quarter of an hour; take two ounces of ground rice and92 dainty dishes stir it in by degrees while the milk is boiling until thick ; let it boil a few minutes longer ; dip your cups in cold water, pour the mixture into them, turn them out just before serving. They are best eaten cold with the following sauce: Take about half a pint of milk or cream, a little whole cinnamon, some lemon-peel, a bay-leaf, and enough brown sugar to sweeten it. Boil it a quarter of an hour, and when cold add to it three yolks of eggs. Put it on the fire again, but do not let it boil. Two minutes before you take it off thicken with a little ground rice, with the addition of a glass of madeira or sherry. This is a good sauce for all puddings that require one. 486. Lemon Custard Puddings. —Take the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, the rinds of two lemons grated and the juice of one, half a pound of powdered sugar, two Naples biscuits grated, and a small glass of brandy. Beat all well together, add a pint of good cream and two ounces of fresh butter. Butter small moulds, put in the pudding, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. This is a very good recipe. 487. Vermicelli Pudding. — Take two ounces of vermicelli, boil it in a pint of milk till the milk thickens, stirring it all the time it is boiling ; then add six ounces of butter, half a pound of sugar, six yolks and four whites of eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Line a dish or shape with puff-paste, and boil half an hour. 488. Macaroni Pudding.— Simmer one or two ounces of pipe macaroni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; add cream, three yolks of eggs and one white, a little nut- meg, and some sugar. Bake in a dish or shape lined with puff-paste half an hour. 489. Bread-and-butter Pud- ding.—Cut thin slices of bread and butter, and lay them in a well- buttered mould or pudding-dish; between each layer strew currants and a little powdered cinnamon and sugar ; fill your dish or mould thus three parts full, and pour in a cold custard made with four or six eggs (according to the size of the pudding), beaten up with cream or milk, and flavoured with lemon- peel ; pour it in by little at a time, so that the bread may absorb it without floating; when full, bake one hour. If wished rather richer, when made in a mould, a little wine or brandy may be poured on the bread before the custard. 490. Batter Pudding. — Two spoonfuls of fine flour, the whites of two eggs and yolk of one, with milk enough to moisten; beat well together and boil twenty minutes. Serve with wine-sauce, or eat it with cold butter and brown sugar, which is much the best. 491. Batter Pudding Baked.— Take six ounces of fine flour, three eggs, aud a pinch of salt; add by degrees as much milk as will when well beaten make it the consistence of thick cream. Pour into a pudding - dish, and bake three- quarters of an hour; or it may be boiled in a basin, buttered and floured, and tied up in a cloth. It will require two hours’ boiling. 492. Yorkshire Pudding.—Six eggs, six heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt; beat and strain the eggs, and mixPUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC* 93 them with the flour. It should be rather a thin batter. Heat the pan and rub it with butter or dripping before the batter is poured in; it should be about an inch thick. When the pudding is browned on one side, turn and brown it on the other. It may be made plainer with half a pound of flour, a tea- spoonful of salt, three eggs, and a pint of milk, and baked in a tin under a joint of roasting beef or mutton. 493. Hasty Pudding.—Boil a pint of milk with a pinch of salt; while boiling, stir into it by degrees as much flour as will thicken it, pour it out, and eat with cold butter and brown sugar. 494. Fig Pudding.—Chop six ounces of suet and half a pound of the best figs fine, add three-quarters of a pound of breadcrumbs, and four ounces of moist sugar; mix first the bread and suet, then the figs and sugar; add a little nutmeg, a well-beaten egg, and a cup of milk. Boil in a mould four horns. 495. Bread Pudding.—Put into a stew-pan a pint of breadcrumbs, with as much milk as will cover them, the peel of a lemon, and a small bit of cinnamon ; boil about ten minutes, sweeten with powdered sugar, take out the lemon and cinnamon, add four eggs. Beat all well together, and boil one hour, or bake half an hour. 496. New College Puddings.— Beat six yolks and three whites of eggs, mix them with one spoonful of flour and four of breadcrumbs ; add a little salt and nutmeg, with BUgar to taste, four ounces of shred suet, and the same of picked and washed currants; mix well to- gether. Make the batter into egg- shaped pieces with a spoon, and fry in very hot butter, or they may be baked in pattie-pans. 497. Puddings in Haste.—Mix shred suet with grated breadcrumbs, a handful of currants cleaned or a few stoned raisins, the beat yolks of three eggs and the white Of one, with a little grated lemon-peel, to a stiffish paste. Boll this in flour, and with two spoons make it into small balls ; have ready a pan of fast-boiling water, drop them in; when done they will rise to the top. 498. Sponge-Cake Pudding.— Steep sponge-cake in brandy, butter a mould and stick it over with dried cherries : put the cake in and make a custard with three whole eggs and four yolks, about half a pint of milk, and a little sugar and nutmeg; fill up the mould and boil it an horn-. Serve with arrowroot and brandy sauce. 499. The Tedworth Albert Pudding.—Take twelve ounces of breadcrumbs or sponge-cake; boil a pint of cream and pour it over the crumbs; leave them to soak a little, rub off on a piece of lump sugar the rind of a lemon; when pounded it should be about a quarter of a pound. Well whip the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs. Mix all well together, adding a pinch of salt; butter a mould well, and pour in the mixture : boil or steam the pudding one hour and a half ; serve with clear wine-sauce. Currants or cherries may be added if liked. 500. Marmalade Pudding.— Take about half a teacupful of milk, one tablespoonful of fine flour, and about two ounces of white sugar; put it on the fire, and stir till it boils; then add th® yolks of four94 DAINTY DISHES eggs, and one small pot of marma- lade, reserving most of the chips to line the mould with. Mix all well up together, then beat up the whites of five eggs, and stir them lightly in. Butter a mould and line it completely with orange chips, put in the pudding, and steam it for half an hour with fire under and over. 501. Sir Watkin Wynne’s Pudding. — Take ten ounces of breadcrumbs, eight ounces of chopped suet, three ounces of pounded sugar, the grated peel and juice of two large lemons, three eggs, and a little salt. Mix all well together, put it into a mould that will just hold it, and boil for three hours. Serve with a clear wine-sauce. 502. Marrow Pudding.—Take half a pound of marrow from beef bones, grate about half a pound of bread into crumbs; put both into a basin and pour a pint of boiling cream over them, cover it close, and let it stand till nearly cold; beat up six eggs very light and mix them in, add a little grated nut- meg and cinnamon, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and a spoonful of smooth marmalade. If liked, a small glass of brandy may also be added. Mix all well together, butter a mould, lay it with dried cherries or orange-chips, put in the pudding, and boil one hour; or it may be baked for the same time in a dish with good puff-paste round the edge. 503. Sunday Pudding. — Take half a pint of raisins, and half a pound of currants, the same of suet chopped fine and breadcrumbs, one tablespoonful of flour, half a glass of brandy, a small piece of lemon- peel chopped fine, three ounces of moist sugar, four eggs, and one teacupful of milk. Mix all these ingredients well together, put it in your mould, and boil four horns. 504. Plum Puddings. — Suet flour, currants, and stoned raisins, of each one pound, the rind of a lemon grated, four eggs, as much milk as will mix it into a proper consistency, and a wineglassful of brandy. Flour a cloth, tie it up tight, and boil eight or nine hours; or it may be boiled the same time in a mould. Instead of all flour, half the weight of breadcrumbs is an improvement. 505. A Rich Plum Pudding.— Four ounces of breadcrumbs, two ounces of flour, half a pound of muscatel raisins stoned, the same quantity of picked and washed currants, a pound of sliced kidney suet, a quarter of a pound powdered sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, a little mixed spice, two ounces of candied lemon, orange, or citron peel, chopped ; the rind of two, and the juice of one lemon; beat six eggs well with some new milk, and a glassful of brandy. Mix all well together, and let it stand two or three hours. Scald and flour a cloth, tie the pudding in firmly, and boil for five hours briskly. 506. Mince Pies.—Take a good fat salted bullock’s tongue; par- boil, skin, mince, or scrape two pounds of it. Mince separately two pounds of beef kidney suet, the same of good sound apples peeled and cored, half a pound of candied citron and orange peel, a pound and a half of stoned raisins; add two pounds of picked and washed currants, an ounce of mixed spices, a teaspoonful of salt, a pound of95 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. sugar, the grated rind and juice of two lemons, and two Seville oranges. Mix well, and keep in jars in a cool, airy place. Before using, moisten with a pint and a half of sherry, half a pint of brandy, and the same quantity of orange- flower water. Cover baking-pans of any size with rich puff-paste, fill with the minced meat, put a cover of paste over, trim the edges neatly with a cutter, glaze them with sugar, and hake half an hour in a moderate oven. The minced meat should only he moistened just be- fore using, and the apples are better added in the same way, or they may be omitted altogether. 507. Monday Pudding.—Place some slices of Sunday pudding at the bottom of a mould, take half a pint of thin cream or new milk, a very little cinnamon, a little lemon- peel, and one laurel-leaf; set it over a slow fire and let it boil, then add the yolks of four eggs ; beat it all up together, and strain it through a sieve over the plum- pudding in the mould; then set the mould in a stew-pan of water, and steam it half an hour. 508. Eatafia Pudding.—Grate a large slice of stale bread, boil a pint of cream or new milk, put the bread in a basin and pom: the cream over, and cover the basin with a plate. Pound two ounces of sweet almonds and two or three bitter ones with a little cold milk or cream till they are quite smooth; mix it with the bread in the basin, beat up six eggs till they are quite fight, and add them, also a very little cinnamon and nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and a glass of brandy. Mix all well together; butter a mould, pour in the ingredients and put it to boil in a pan of boiling water for an hour, taking care to keep the water at the same height by adding more as it boils down, but be careful it does not boil over into the mould, which should have a cover and weight on it. Turn it out and serve with a custard sauce poured over it (see Pudding Sauces). 509. Muffin Pudding.—A pint of milk boiled, sweetened, and flavoured with cinnamon and lemon-peel; strain it and add the yolks of four eggs. Take half a pound of ratafia biscuit crumbled d^fn, two muffins sliced, some dried cherries, half a gill of brandy and the same of sweet wine; butter a mould well with fresh butter, stick the cherries on the inside, then put in a layer of grated biscuit, next of muffin, and so on alternately, till the mould is near full, then pour in the brandy and wine. Three-quarters of an hour before you wish to serve the pud- ding add the custard as above, and put the mould into a stew-pan of boiling water, taking care that the water does not get in over the top of the mould. Serve with a wine- sauce. 510. Cabinet Pudding.—Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon- peel and a little salt; pour the cream while boiling over six pounds of sponge or Naples biscuits, and let them soak ; then add the yolks of eight eggs, and the beaten whites of six ; also a little brandy ; butter a mould, decorate it with preserved cherries, pour in the mixture, and put it into a bain marie to steam for half an hour ; serve either with a clear wine or custard sauce. This pudding may also be made with the remains of Savoy biscuits,96 DAINTY DISHES or the crumb of a French roll or penny loaf. 511. Ginger Pudding. — Take twelve sponge-biscuits soaked in a pint of cream or milk, ten yolks of eggs, two ounces of preserved wet ginger cut in small pieces, a spoon- ful of the ginger-syrup, and two ounces of dissolved butter ; boil it half an hour in a buttered mould au bain marie, or bake it in a dish lined with puff-paste. Pineapple pudding may be made the same. Serve with a custard-sauce flavoured with ginger or pineapple. 512. Lemon Pudding. — Take eight yolks and four whites of eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, one pound of butter, half a pint of cream, the juice of one lemon and the grated peel of two. Mix well together, put it in a form of puff- paste, and bake about half an hour. 513. Another Lemon Pudding. —A teacupful of water, two ounces of butter, one ounce of loaf sugar, the juice and grated rinds of two lemons. Boil all together for ten minutes, then add the yolks of eight eggs well beaten; stir without ceasing after putting in the eggs till it is as thick as custard; take the pan off the fire. Have ready, half baked, a shell of puff-paste, pour in the pudding, and bake for half an hour ; or it may be baked in a dish lined with puff-paste. 514. Orange Pudding. — Take three China orange skins, boil them in rose water till tender, pound them in a mortar; add twelve yolks of eggs, twelve ounces of sugar, and six ounces of butter. Beat all well together in the mortar till thoroughly mixed ; put it into a shell of puff-paste, and bake half an hour. 515. Dunnikier Orange Pud- ding.—Take five ounces of butter, melt it in a pan, but do not let it oil; add to it while warm five ounces of sugar, and the yolks of ten eggs beaten ; mix well together, and beat till the mixture turns white. Have the bottom of a baking tin covered with puff- paste ; spread thickly on it orange marmalade, and pour the rest of the ingredients over; bake in a moderate oven about half an hour ; turn it out of the tin and serve. Pineapple and apricot may be made in the same way. This is an excellent recipe. 516. Apricot Pudding. — Take twelve large apricots, scald them till they are soft; pour on the grated crumb of a penny loaf, a pint of cream boiling hot; when cool, add four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and a glass of madeira or sherry. Pound the apricots in a mortar with the kernels; then mix the fruit and other ingredients well together. Line a pattie-pan with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake half an hour. 517. Gooseberry Pudding. — Stew gooseberries in a stone jar over a hot stove, or placed in a saucepan of water, till they will pulp; rub them through a coarse sieve, and take a pint of the pulp and beat it with three whole eggs, previously whipped together and strained, an ounce and a half of butter, and as much sugar as will sweeten it; add some crumbs of roll, or four ounces of Naples bis- cuit, to give it consistence; put into a shape of puff-paste, and bake half an hour. 518. Apple Pudding. — StewPUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTBY, ETC. 97 some apples, and pulp them through a sieve. To about half a pound of apples, after they are pulped, add six ounces of melted, but not oiled, butter, in which mix as much sugar as will just sweeten the pudding ; add the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of four, whipped. Mix all with the apples, and beat it very light; add the rind of a lemon. Cover the bottom of a baking-tin with puff-paste, and pour the pudding into it; bake in a moderate oven half an hour, strew sugar over it, and serve. 519. Another Apple Pudding. —Peel one dozen and a half of good apples, take out the cores, cut them small, and put them into a stew-pan that will just hold them, with a little water, a little cinna- mon, two cloves, and the peel of a lemon; stew over a slow fire till quite soft, sweeten with moist sugar, and rub through a hair- sieve ; add to it the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one, a quarter of a pound of good butter, a little nutmeg, the juice and grated peel of one lemon. Beat all well to- gether ; butter a mould, put in the pudding, and bake or boil half an horn; serve with a custard-sauce made without wine. 520. Citron Pudding. — Slice half a pound of citron thin, and shred it very small; pound it with half a pound of powdered sugar in a marble mortar till well incor- porated. Beat the yolks of twelve eggs to a cream; mix them by degrees with the citron, beating well together; add as much spinach-juice as will make it a fine green; bake in a shape of puff- paste ; just before putting it in the oven add five ounces of oiled butter and a little brandy. 521. Riz Meringude.—Take six ounoes of rice, put it in a quart of milk, and set it over a slow fire to simmer till the rice swells and gets thick; add half a pint of good thick cream, and let it simmer till it gets thick again; then take it off the fire, have six ratafia biscuits dried and crumbled small, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the grated peel of a lemon ready to put into it. Mix all well together, and let it stand by the fire till the first course is served. Whip the whites of three eggs to a fine broth, stir it quickly into the rice, put it into the dish it will be served in, and set it over a stove. Sprinkle sugar over when nearly done, brown with a salamander, and serve. 522. Sweet Omelette.—Break six eggs, separate the whites, mix the yolks with a quarter of a pound of sugar, two spoonfuls of flour, the peel of a lemon grated, and a vei-y little mace. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, then mix all to- gether and fry it. When done at the bottom, turn it into a dish, sift fine powdered sugar over it, and glaze it with a hot salamander. 523. Cream Souffle.—Take three yolks of eggs, three spoonfuls of flour, one spoonful of maraschino; mix them together, and add a pint of cream; beat up four whites of eggs to a strong froth, and stir them in. Bake in a case, and sift pounded sugar over. 524. Souffle. — Souffles require the greatest care in their prepara- tion and baking; their lightness mainly depends on the proper whisking of the eggs, but also much on the oven being the right QDAINTY DISHES 98 heat. Experience alone can deter- mine this. They should be served the moment they come out of the oven, or they will fall and become heavy. They are better under than over done. A really good souffle cannot be made without practice and experience. If it fails, there is one consolation, that a souffle ‘ manqu6 ’ generally makes a very good pudding. They should be baked in a proper souffle-dish, which is double, the inside case being put in the oven, and then placed in the finer one when sent to table. Soufjlt.—A quarter of a pound of fine flour, half a pint of cream, and a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg; stir this constantly to- gether in a stew-pan over a slow fire till it is very thick; then add the yolks of five eggs, half a pint of new milk, and sugar to your taste. Flavour with orange-flower, vanille, or what you please. Stir it well together, but not on the fire ; beat the whites of five eggs to a strong froth, and mix it lightly In. Bake in a gentle oven half an hour. Take care it is served im- mediately it comes out of the oven. Sprinkle a little sugar on the top. 525. Souffle au Riz.—Boil two ounces of rice flour in a pint of milk quite thick, stirring it all the time till cold ; mix with it four yolks of eggs, the peel of a lemon grated, and half a pound of fine powdered sugar. Whisk twelve whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and stir them quickly and lightly in. Bake in a case or mould, and sift pounded sugar over the top before serving. It may be flavoured with vanille, orange-flower, coffee, ginger, etc. 526. Soufll6 de Fecule de Pomme de Terre. — Mix two ounces of potato flour with half a pint of boiling cream, in which you have infused the peel of a lemon ; add a little sugar, a large lump of butter, and a very little salt; break six eggs, and add the yolks of four of them; now beat the six whites to a froth, which pour gently into the mixture, and then the whole into a souffle-dish, which place in a moderate oven. When done enough, powder a little sugar over, and serve the moment it comes out of the oven. The sugar must of course predominate over the salt; but observe, that the less sugar there is in a souffld the lighter it will be. 527. Omelette Souffld.—Break six eggs; separate the yolks and whites; add to the yolks two spoonfuls of sugar, a little orange- flower water, or a few drops of spirits of lemca. Work them well together. Whip the whites to a firm froth, and mix lightly with the rest. Put into the frying-pan a small bit of butter; let it melt, that the pan may be buttered all over; pour in the omelette, set it on a slow fire, and take care it does not burn. In a minute or two, when it has set, turn it out upon the dish it is to be served on. Sift sugar over, and put it in the oven. As soon as it has risen, take it out and serve immediately. 528. Pancakes.—A spoonful of flour, a pint of new milk, and a little cream, if you have it, mixed well; the yolks and whites of three eggs beat together, but not too much, as it makes the pancakes tough, added, with sugar to your taste, and a teaspoonful of salt i99 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PAST BY, ETC. they may be flavoured also with grated lemon-peel, or whatever is liked. Melt a piece of butter in a frying-pan; pour in, when it is hot, as much of the batter as will cover the bottom of the pan, fry brown on both sides, roll up the pancake, and serve very hot with sugar sprinkled over them. 529. English Pancakes.—Take six yolks of eggs, break them into a bowl, separating the whites, which beat up until they are quite light; beat the yolks also with a little sifted sugar, a teacupful of cream, and a quarter of a pound of flour; mix in the whites, have a good clear fire ready, put a bit of fresh butter into the frying-pan, and when it froths pour in a break- fast-cupful of the batter; keep shaking the pan for a little, loosen the batter round the edge with the point of a knife, give it a shake, toss it over, and do it the same time on the other side ; then turn it over, and lay them on a hot dish. Cook as many as you require in the same way. Strew sugar over and serve very hot. Lemon should be served with them, but separately. 530. French Pancakes.—Take four eggs, beat the whites quickly to a snow ; then beat the yolks up with a spoonful of fine sugar, two spoonfuls of flour, and one of cream. Mix all together, and fry in butter of a light brown colour. Lay it over with apricot marma- lade, fold it up, and serve very hot. 531. French Thick Pancake.— Take the yolks of four eggs, and beat them up with four tablespoon- fuls of sugar till very light, add a tablespoonful of orange or pine- apple marmalade, a little nutmeg, four tablespoonfuls of flour, and four of good cream; whisk the whites to a snow, and mix all well together; pour the batter into an omelette-pan, in which you have melted a piece of butter. Fry on a slow fire of a light- brown ; turn it over, strew sugar over it either simply or glazed with a sala- mander. 532. Frea«Ti Light Pancakes. —Mix the yolks of seven eggs, half a pint of cream, and one ounce of butter broken up into small pieces, with three spoonfuls of flour ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a snow, and when ready to be fried mix all together. Fry in a very little butter as thin as possible; do not turn them in the pan, but as they are done turn them out one upon the other, sifting sugar between till you have enough. A few seconds is enough to cook each, but they must not be left for a minute till they are served, and should be very hot. 533. Rice Pancakes.—A quarter of a pound of rice boiled quite tender in milk, pounded in a mortar with a little sugar, nutmeg, and cream; add four eggs well beaten, mix all together, and fry them like other pancalces. 53L Cheesecakes.—Beat a quart of milk with eight eggs till it comes to a curd, strain the whey from it, and put the curd, with a quarter of a pound of butter, three eggs, and three spoonfuls of sugar, into a mortar; beat and mix thoroughly, add half a nutmeg and a little salt. Bake in very light puff-paste cases. 535. Curd Cheesecakes.—Beat in a mortar till it looks like butter a pound and a half of cheese curd.DAINTY DISHES 100 with ten ounces of butter; add a quarter of a pound of almonds previously pounded with orange- flower water, a pound of sugar, eight yolks and four whites of eggs, and a little cream. It will take a quarter of an hour to incorporate all these ingredients thoroughly. Bake in puff-paste in a quick oven. 536. Almond Cheesecakes.— Take six ounces of sweet and three of bitter almonds, and beat them fine in the mortar ; add eight eggs well whipped, twelve ounces of loaf-sugar, half a pound of fresh butter carefully melted, and four ounces of ground rice. Mix well together, and beat it up for half an hour. Bake in pattie-pans lined with puff-paste in a moderate oven. 537. Lemon Cheesecakes. — The peel of two lemons boiled in two or three waters till tender; pound them with six ounces of sugar ; add the yolks of six eggs beaten up well with six ounces of melted butter and the juice of half a lemon. Bake in pattie-pans lined with puff-paste in a quick oven. 538. Orange Cheesecakes. — Blanch half a pound of sound sweet almonds, and beat them very fine with two spoonfuls of orange- flower water, half a pound of fine pounded sugar, three quarters of a pound of melted butter added when almost cold, eight yolks and four whites of eggs. When well beaten and mixed, strain it. Boil the peel of a Seville orange till the bitter- ness is out, pound it fine, and mix with the rest. Bake in very light puff-paste. This is an incompar- able cheesecake. Orange, apricot, or pine-apple marmalade may bo substituted for the Seville orange- peel. 539. Egg Cheese.—Take a quart of new milk, add to it sixteen yolks and eight whites of eggs ; beat and strain them; then put in a piece of sugar dissolved in water, a large piece of cinnamon, the rinds of a lemon and an orange. Mix well together; and before you set it on the fire, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Let the fire be slow, and stir with a wooden spoon from the bottom till you see it come to a soft curd; then take it off, and put it to drain in a frame. Let it hang two hours, and serve, cover- ing it with the following cream : A quart of cream, eight yolks of eggs, a piece of sugar dissolved in water, half a spoonful of fine flour, a piece of cinnamon, the rind of an orange and a lemon. Set over a slow fire, whisk till it begins to bubble ; take it off, let it get cold, and serve, poured over the cheese. 540. Portugal Eggs.—Take nine eggs and boil them hard; pound them in a mortar with some sugar, a little pounded cinnamon, and nut- meg; add two raw eggs to bind them. Roll the paste, with your hands well floured, into eight or nine round balls; then take half a pint of good cream, put it into a pan with some sugar, a stick of cinnamon or vanille, and the rind of a lemon; add the egg-balls; let them stew gently over a slow fire, moving the pan occasionally. When you think they are done enough, take them out carefully with a spoon, arrange them on a dish, pour the cream over, and serve.PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 101 541. (Eufs k la Neige.—Beat to a strong froth some whites of eggs, and boil it in milk, with a little salt; cut them all of a size with a spoon, and set them to drain. Boil a pint of cream ; when it is boiling throw in the outer rind of half a lemon, a little sugar, and a very small quantity of salt; beat the yolks of four eggs with the cream, and let it thicken on the fire, stir- ring it continually. When thick enough, strain through a tammy and pom over the oeufs a la neige, which you must previously arrange on the dish they are to be sent to table in. The flavouring of this sauce may be varied with vanille, almond, rose, etc. 542. Pate & Frire.—Sift half a pound of flour, put it into a dish with two spoonfuls of oil, a little salt, and three yolks of eggs; moisten it with small beer in such quantities that the paste is not stringy; work it till it is of the consistency of thick cream ; whip one or two whites of eggs, and mix them lightly with the paste. Make it two or three hours before it is wanted; remember that the lightness of the paste depends upon the whites of eggs being well whipped. The paste may be made with butter instead of oil, and with hot water instead of beer, adding a glass of white wine. The fat taken from the stock-pot makes the best fritters, after that the kidney fat of beef minced. Fine oil is also good, but hog’s lard softens them, and prevents their being so crisp. 543. Creme Patissi^re.—Break two eggs into a stew-pan, with a little salt and as much sifted flour as they will take up ; mix in a pint Qf new milk, put it on the fire, stir constantly that it may not stick till you do not smell the flour; then add a lump of butter the size of a walnut, put it into a dish, and rub a little butter over it, that it may not harden on the outside. 544. Creme Frangipane.—Take the above creme, add to it a little sugar, a spoonful or two of orange- flower water, an^ some crumbled macaroons. Mix all well together till it is quite smooth; then add eggs to it, mixing them in one by one till it is of the consistency of thick soup. To be used for tourte de frangipane, cream tartlets, fritl ters, etc. 545. Gateau aux Pistaches.— Make a creme patissiere (which see). Blanch a quarter of a pound of pistachios and of sweet almonds pound them together, occasionally adding a drop of water to prevent their oiling. When quite smooth take them out of the mortar, have ready prepared a spoonful of spinach blanched, pressed in butter, beaten and rubbed through a colander; add this to the paste, and put both into the cream, which should have as much flour in it as it will take. Add now three- quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, a teaspoonful of orange - flower water, four whole eggs, six yolks, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter. Mix all well together. Whip the six whites, mix them in lightly. Prepare a stew-pan by buttering it with clarified butter, drain it, and powder it all over with fine crumbs of bread ; put in the mixture, and bake it in the oven for three-quarters of an hour. Serve immediately it comes out. 546. Genoises Glac6 & l’ltali- enne.—Put into a sweetmeat-panDAINTY DISHES 102 five ounces of sugar and five eggs ; mix as for a biscuit; add a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds beaten, and the same quantity of flour; butter a baking-sheet, roll the paste the thickness of a crown- piece, lay it on the sheet, and bake of a fine colour in a quick oven. When done, you may cut it into any form you please. Clarify a pound of sugar, put the pan into cold water, and gather the sugar ; mix gradually the whites of five eggs well whisked with it; glaze the tops of the genoises with this, and set them to dry for a quarter of an hour in the stove. 547. Gateau k la Reine.—Beat a pound of sweet almonds to a paste ; add a pound of sifted sugar, and four whites of eggs, by degrees. When well mixed, it may be cut into what shapes you fancy. Bake in a slow oven, and glaze the same as the genoises. 548. Gkteau Napolitaine k la Chantilly.—Weigh one pound of flour, eight ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of pounded sweet almonds, and the same of butter ; mix them on the pastry slab with five yolks of eggs, the zest of two oranges rubbed off on a piece of sugar, and a very little salt. Work all well together. When thoroughly mixed, knead the paste into the form of a rolling-pin, and divide into twelve equal parts. Knead these again into round balls, and roll them out to about seven inches diameter. Cut them all the same size with a circular cutter, prick them all over with a fork, egg them, and lay them on previously buttered baking-tins, and bake them in a moderate oven, keeping them a light colour. When they are done, lay a weight on them to keep them flat till they are cold; then lay one upon another, with a layer of apricot or other jam be- tween each. The sides and top may be iced with sugar, or de- corated according to taste. 549. Baba.—Take half an ounce of salt, five whole eggs, a pound and a half of butter, the same quantity of picked raisins, half that quantity of currants, a little pow- dered saffron, and a small quantity of yeast. Make a hole in the centre of a pound of flour ; put all these things in, and work it with a little warm water to a smooth and not too stiff paste. Rub a sauce- pan with butter, and put in the baba. If in winter, leave it five or six hours to rise; in summer it will not require so long. When it has risen, bake like any other cake in a moderate oven. 550. Beignets de Pommes k la Bavarie.—Pare and quarter some large pippins ; lay them to soak in brandy with some fine sugar, cin- namon, and lemon-peel; turn them often, and, when near dinner-time, dry them in a cloth, roll them about in flour, and fry them tender in hot lard. Dish, and sift over them a quantity of fine sugar, and colour them with a salamander. 551. Beignets de Peches au Vin du Rhin.—These should be made of a fleshy kind of peach, and each cut in two. Put them to soak in some Rhenish wine, with plenty of sugar, some cinnamon and lemon-peel. When ready to serve, dry them, and fry in hot lard, without any flour. Strain the wine into a stew-pan, and boil it to a syrup ; add the kernels of the peaches blanched and split, andPLDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 103 pour it over the fruit when dished. Any sort of large good fruit may be done in the same way, with the difference only that they should be dipped in a thin batter made with flour and small beer. 552. Beignets de Fraises.— Make a batter thus : To two eggs, whites and yolks, well beat, put half a pint of cream thickened with fine flour, sugar, and a little cin- namon. Put the strawberries raw into this batter, and fry them in a pan of hot lard, a spoonful at a time. Dish them in a pyramid, and sift sugar between and over them. Raspberries and other fruit are good done in the same way. 553. Beignets d’Orange.—Take four or five sweet oranges, and slice off the peel with a knife ; cut them in quarters, and take out the pips; put them on the fire with a little sugar. Mix some white wine, a little flour, a spoonful of good oil, and a very little salt together; it should be of the consistency of thick cream. Dip the quarters of oranges in this batter, and fry them in hot lard of a good colour; sift sugar over them and sala- mander them. 551 Beignets d’Abricots. — Take apricots that are not too ripe ; cut them in two, take out the stone, pare, and put them to soak in brandy for an hour, with a little sugar and lemon peel. A little before serving, drain and dip them into a pate & frire (which see); fry them in butter to a good colour, sift sugar over them, and glaze either in the oven or with a salamander. 555. Beignets en Surprise.— Take small rennet apples; leave the stalks on; peel and cut them in two near the top ; take out the heart with a round-topped knife ; put them to steep in a little brandy with some lemon-peel and whole cinnamon; drain and fill them very full with apricot marmalade or creme patissiere (which see). Mix the yolk of an egg with a little flour, fix the tops of the apples well on with this, they may look whole ; dip them into pate A frire ; fry, sugar, glaze, and serve. 556. Beignets de Groseilles.— Make a rich paste, and roll out very thin; brush it all over with egg, and lay the currants, preserved or fresh, down in little lumps on it. Prepare another sheet of paste, and lay over it, pressing well down at the edges, that they may not come out in frying. Make the lard pretty hot, fry of a good yellow colour, dish with fine sifted sugar over them, and glaze with a sala- mander. 557. Spanish Fritters. — Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger; soak them in cream with some nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, sugar, and an egg beaten up in it; when well soaked, fry them in butter of a good brown, and serve very hot. 558. Strawberry Toasts.—Soak thin, long-shaped pieces of bread in cream, lay good red strawberries on them, and fry in butter; or fry them crisp in butter without soak- ing the bread, which many prefer. 559. Pineapple Toasts.—Pound the pineapple to a pulp with some sugar, then spread it neatly on thin pieces of bread ; fry them crisp in clarified butter, and serve. 560. Prussian Fritters.—Stew well a dozen of apples, sweetepDAINTY DISHES 104 them sufficiently; a small bit of cinnamon or a few cloves should be stewed with them. When done enough, set them to cool; have ready some puff-paste rolled thin, and cut into rounds about the size of the top of a teacup ; lay a tea- spoonful of the apple marmalade on one of these pieces, brush round the edges with egg, and lay another piece of paste on the top; press the edges close together, and trim them neatly with a smaller cutter. Proceed thus till you have enough for your dish. Fry them quickly in butter, that they may not be- come sodden. Arrange them on the dish, after having sifted pounded sugar over them, and passed a salamander over them on both sides. 561. Croquettes de Riz k la Fleur d’Orange.—Take six ounces of picked and well-washed rice; set it on the fire with three-quarters of a pint of new milk or cream; when the rice is tender add three ounces of butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, and four yolks of eggs. Mix all well together, and set it again on the fire to acquire some consistence. Flavour it with orange-flower water, or you may use vanille, citron, or any other flavouring you prefer. When the mixture is firm enough, take the saucepan off the fire and turn it on to a dish to cool; when cold take a spoonful of the rice according to the size you wish the croquettes to be, and dip it into some very finely-sifted breadcrumbs, which you have previously prepared; roll them of a neat shape, and dip them into three eggs well beaten up in a basin, and again into the bread- crumbs; roll them well, and fry them quickly of a fine clear brown. Just before serving sift sugar over them, and send them up very hot. 562. Rice Fritters.—A quarter of a pound of ground rice boiled tender in a very little milk, with a bit of cinnamon, a lam-el-leaf, and a small piece of lemon-peel; when done enough, take out the season- ing. Grease a stew-pan with a little bit of fresh butter, put in the rice and stir into it two ounces of sugar and the yolks of two eggs. Work it well over the fire till it comes to a paste, then spread it on a well-floured board; when cool throw a little flour on it, cut it in pieces, and roll into small balls or long - shaped rolls ; dip them lightly into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then roll them in very fine breadcrumbs; repeat this a second time, then fry them in very hot lard a good brown, shake some powdered sugar over, and serve. 563. German Puffs.—Make a smooth batter with three table- spoonfuls of flour and a little cream; beat up the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, and mix with the batter. Add sugar to taste, a little powdered cinnamon, and a pinch of salt; then melt ha a little cream a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut; let it get cold, and mix all well together. Butter small moulds well, fill them half full, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with wine- sauce. 564. Rice-Cakes.—Beat up five yolks and one white of eggs, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and a little pounded cinnamon well together; pound in a mortar half on ounce of sweet and four bitter almonds j^while pounding add byPUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTBY, ETC. 105 degrees the eggs, etc. ; when sufficiently mixed it should look like thick cream ; then add to the mixture a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a large wineglassful of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, melted; pour this when well beaten together into buttered pattie - pans, and bake about a quarter of an hour. 565. Lemon Puffs.—Beat the juice of a lemon with half a pound of finely-powdered sugar, adding as you beat it the white of an egg whipped to snow ; when well beaten, add three eggs and the rind of a lemon finely grated, beat again till well mixed. Strew some sheets of paper with sugar, drop the mixture on them, sift a little sugar over, and bake in the oven. 566. Dampfnudel (Bavarian). —Take a pound of flour, one ounce and a half of yeast, and rather more than a quarter of a pint of hot milk. Set the paste to work in a warm place the same as for bread. When it has well risen add a quarter of a pound of melted butter, two whole eggs, and four ounces of pounded sugar; mix and beat the paste well, and let it swell again. When it begins to rise, make it with your hands into small balls, and place them on a well- buttered cold dish, then place them in a gentle heat to rise. When they have attained double their original size, put th^ff* into a hot oven, and when about half cooked pour over a cup of milk sweetened and flavoured with essence of vanille; finish cooking them, and serve with a sauce of whipped eggs and cream, k la vanille. 567. Zweibach. — Put through a tammy into a bowl half a pound of flour, and set it in a warm place to heat moderately; while this is doing make half a glass of milk just lukewarm, with a quarter of a pound of butter, some sugar, and a pinch of salt. When this is well mixed, add the flour, mixing it well in with the yolks of two and the white of one egg. When well in- corporated add a teaspoonful of beer yeast passed through a tammy The paste should be of a consis- tency fit to roll with the hands ; if too soft more flour may be added. Roll the paste into round balls, which when baked should be about the size of billiard-balls. Bake in a quick oven. PUDDING SAUCES. 568. Custard Sauce.—Boil to- gether some sugar and cream ; beat up the yolk of an egg, and add it to the boiling cream with a glass of sherry or madeira; stir well, and serve. 5S9. Brandy Butter Sauce for Plum Pudding.—A quarter of a pound of butter to be beaten with a wooden spoon all one way till it looks like thick cream ; then add a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar (less is better), a glass of sherry, and a small glass of brandy ; mix well with the butter and sugar, adding only a small quantity at a time. 570. German Pudding-Sauce. —Just bring to the boil half a pint of white wine, with a little lemon- peel and sugar in it; beat up well the yolks of seven eggs, and pourDAINTY DISHES 106 the hot wine over them; whisk it or mill it to a froth, and serve with almost any boiled pudding. 571. Sabajone or Sabaillon.— Mix eight very fresh yolks of eggs with three glasses of madeira or sherry wine, some sugar, and a little cinnamon. Put all into a saucepan over a quick fire; do not let it boil, but beat it constantly till it rises and is of the consistency of thick cream. This is an excel- lent pudding-sauce, but in Italy it is poured into glasses and eaten by itself, being served at balls, etc. 572. Arrowroot - Sauce.—Mix smooth with cold water a spoonful or two of arrowroot, pour boiling water over it, stirring continually till it is smooth and clear; then put it into a saucepan with a glass of sherry, a bit of lemon-peel, and a little sugar; heat thoroughly, stirring all the time, take out the lemon-peel, and serve. 573. Wine Sauce.—Make some thin melted butter, sweeten it with brown sugar, add a little grated lemon-peel, or a little nutmeg, and two glasses of sherry or madeira ; make it quite hot, but do not let it boil, and serve immediately. PASTRY. 574. To Make Puff-Pastry.— Take rather more butter than flour —about half a pound of flour makes a good dish of pastry. Mix lightly with your hands rather less than half the butter with all the flour, then add some water and mix again, but work it as little with your hands as possible ; roll it out, then put into the centre of the sheet the rest of the butter, and fold it up into six folds; then roll it out again, and refold it in the same way; repeat this three times; lastly, fold it only in three, roll it once more out, and it is ready to use, and can be cut into any form you please. For shells, tartlets, or patties, it should be about three- quarters of an inch thick ; for puffs, etc., it must be rolled thinner. 575. Paste for Raised Pies.— Take ten ounces of butter and two pounds of flour; pour on it a pint of boiling water, mix it into a very stiff paste, put it into a covered stew pan, and set it near the fire to heat for half an hour ; then knead it well, and raise it in a pie or other shape to suit; wash it well over with egg beaten up ; ornament the sides in any way you choose; fill it with bran, and bake in a moder- ate oven of a fight brown. 576. Paste for Lining Moulds or Timbales.—One pound of flour mixed with a quarter of a pound of butter, six yolks of eggs, and a glassful of milk. Mix into a stiff paste. 577. Crisp Paste for Tarts.— To half a pound of flour well dried add half an ounce of loaf sugar in fine powder; make it into a stiff paste with half a cupful of boiling cream and an ounce and a half of butter ; work it well, and then add a yolk of an egg. 578. Another.—A pint of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, and two eggs, one spoonful of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of cream; work it well and roll it thin. 579. A Good Tart Crust to pover a Dish.—Rub half a poundPUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETO. of butter in one pound of flour, wet it with as much water as will make a stiff paste, roll it out three times, as thin as a crown-piece. This is a good paste to cover all fruit tarts in dishes. 580. Biscuit Paste. — One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, six yolks of eggs, one wineglassful of milk, worked together into a stiff paste. This is good for tarts baked in pans, or lining moulds. For custards line small moulds, fill them with flour, bake them hard; when done take the flour out, clean, fill with cus- tard, and bake till set. 581. Almond Pastry. — Make some square thin pieces of puff- paste, pound some sweet and a few bitter almonds very small, mix them with the white of an egg and a little sugar; spread this upon the pieces of pastry, and bake them in an oven till they are as crisp as possible. 582. Madeleine Cakes.—To one tablespoonful of flour add four of cream and three yolks of eggs, with two spoonfuls of pounded sugar; put it on a slow fire, and just let it come to a boil, then set it aside to cool. Have ready some puff- paste rolled as thin as a half-crown. Cut the piece in half, and on one spread the above preparation pretty thinly, then cover it with the other half. Glaze it with egg spread with a brush; bake in a quick oven, and when it is done cut it into equal-sized pieces the shape of an ordinary sponge cake. Sift coarsely - powdered sugar over them, and glaze with a salamander, so that they may look candied on the top. 583. Frangipane.—A quarter of a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs, two ounces of flour, two or three almond-cakes crumbled, four table- spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated lemon - peel, a small c^mtity of candied peel cut fine, a teaspoon- ful of brandy, and a very little nutmeg. Set it upon a gentle fire, give it a boil, and stir that it may not become lumpy. Prepare either a square, oval, or round shape of puff-paste, rolled to the thickness of half an inch; put in the mix- ture, lay bars of paste across it, glaze, bake in a quick oven, and salamander before serving. 584. Another Frangipane. — Take six bitter and a handful of sweet ahnonds; pound them as fine as possible in a mortar, add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, a tablespoonful of Horn', the yolks of two eggs, half a lemon- peel grated fine, one spoonful of orange marmalade, and a little nutmeg; mix all together with half a pint of good cream. Line a baking-tin with a thin, light pasta laying a thicker bit round the edge, put in the preparation, and bake in a moderately hot oven. About half an hour should do it. 585. Custard Tart.—Cover a tart-pan with puff - paste ; stew some apples very soft, then rub them through a sieve, sweeten them to taste, and put them in the paste ; make a custard with half a pint of cream or good milk ; set it on to boil with a laurel-leaf, a bit of lemon-peel, and an ounce and a half of loaf-sugar; when it boils stir in the yolks of three eggs, stir till thick, and pour it over the apples. Beat the whites of ten eggs to a very stiff froth and spreadDAINTY DISHES 108 it over the custard, sift fine sugar on to it, and bake in the oven for about twenty minutes. Marma- lade or fruit tarts of any sort may be made in the same way. 586. Orange Tart. —Pare off the rind, quarter and remove the core of a dozen and a half of China oranges ; boil them in a little sugar and water about three minutes, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Take the juice that runs from them and the liquor they were boiled in and boil it to a syrup; put the oranges in for a minute or two, but without boiling them; then lay them in the shape of a crust, which must be previously baked. Just before serving pour the syrup over the oranges. 587. Raspberry Tart k, la Creme.—Roll out some puff paste thin; fine a pattie-pan with it; put in some fine ripe raspberries, and strew fine sugar over them; put on a lid of paste, and bake in the oven. When done enough cut it open and put in half a pint of cream well beaten with the yolks of two eggs and a little sugar. 588. G-kteau de Pommes.— One pound of fine sugar boiled to a syrup, one pound of apples cored and peeled, some lemon-peel, and the juice of one lemon, or more if necessary, to be boiled over a slow fire in a saucepan without a lid on it till the apples fall and become smooth, and of a proper consis- tency ; then put it in a mould, and serve cold with the following : 580. Burnt Cream. — Make a rich custard of cream and eggs, boiling lemon-peel in it, but no sugar. When cold, pour it over the gkteau de pommes, sift a good deal of sugar over, and brown the top with a salamander. 590. Apples k la Portugaise.— Take eight or nine of the best and largest apples, peel and core them, put them in a pewter dish with a little water, set the dish in the oven, fill the core with sugar. When they are baked enough, serve with either lemon, orange, apricot, or pine-apple marmalade poured over them. 591. Apples with Cream.— Pare the apples and cut them in four, take out the core, put them to stew with a little water and sugar in a saucepan. When they begin to fall take them off the fire. In another pan put four yolks of eggs, a spoonful of flour, a pint of good cream, and a little sugar. Bet the pan upon a slow fire, and keep stirring the cream continu- ally, taking care it does not boil for fear of curdling it. When done enough, add a glass of madeira or sherry. Arrange the apples in the dish, and pour the sauce over. 592. Pommes au Riz M<§ringu£. —Stew pared and cored apples in a saucepan over a slow fire, with a little bruised ginger, three or four cloves, a bit of lemon-peel, and some brown sugar. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice with a pint of milk or cream, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, and half a lemon-peel grated; make it stiff enough to put round a dish. Put the apples in the centre, porn- a custard over. Beat the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, which will take half an hour ; place this over all, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in the oven a nice fight brown.PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 593. Apples with Jelly.—Take the largest apples you can get, peel and cut them in half, remove the core, and hollow them out a little, put them in a broad saucepan nearly full of water, turn them occasionally in the water, and when they are pretty soft take them out, drain and place them on the dish with the hollow side uppermost. When they are cold fill them with the following apple-jelly: Take twenty golden pippins, pare and quarter them, leaving in the cores ; put them in a pipkin with a pint of spring water, and boil them till they are tender and sink to the bottom, then rub them through a colander. To every pint of the juice put half a pound of fine sifted sugar, and set it on to boil as fast as possible. When it begins to jelly, put in the juice of two lemons and a little cinnamon. The rind of a pineapple boiled with the jelly is a great improvement. 594. Fastnachts Krapfen.— This is a German cake which is eaten on Shrove Tuesday, as pan- cakes are in England; it is very good, and is made in the following manner : Take a pint of lukewarm milk, six ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, six yolks of eggs, and two ounces of yeast. Mix all this well together with as much flour as will make a paste, just stiff enough to roll out; then with a round cutter cut out cakes about the diameter of an orange, and an inch and a half thick; put them on a board in a warm place to rise, and then fry them in hot lard from five to ten minutes, so that they may acquire a nice brown colour ; drain them on blotting-paper to free them from fat, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve very hot. It is usual before they rise to open them and introduce a spoonful of jelly or marmalade, and to glaze the outside with egg. y, 595. Almond Paste.— Blanch and pound one pound of Jordan almonds very fine, adding a spoon- ful of orange-flower water while pounding, to keep them from oil- ing ; add threequarters of a pound of fine sifted sugar; stir it together over a gentle fire to dry off the moisture; when it becomes a stiff paste take it out of the pan and put it into pots to keep. It is use- ful for many things, icing of cakes, etc. 596. Almond Cups.— Roll out some of the above paste, and form cups of it in moulds ; bake them in a slow oven, and fill with whipped cream, custard, or preserves. 597. Charlotte de Pommes aux Abricots.—Take a dozen rennet apples, or more if your mould is a very large one ; cut them in quarters, peel and put them into a pan with a lump of butter, a small piece of cinnamon, the peel of half a lemon, and a little pounded sugar. Stew all this together over a very brisk fire, but do not allow them to bum ; when the apples are nearly done, take them off the fire, mix them with half a pot of apricot marmalade, and then put them into the mould, which you will previously have arranged, with thin slices of bread dipped in melted butter; cover apples with similar slices of bread, and bake the char- lotte in a moderate oven of a fine rich brown; serve very hot and crisp. The mould should be rubbed all over with clarified butter, and the slices of breadcrumb may beDAINTY DISHES 110 cut in any shape you please, but the neatest way is with a plain round cutter; dip each piece in melted butter, and lay them in the mould with the edge of one just resting on the other pieces like fishes’ scales. Take care that the bread is not cut too thick, and bake it very crisp. 593. Calf s-foot Jelly.—Put six calves’ feet into six quarts of water, set them on the fire, and boil eight hours, when it should be reduced to four quarts ; strain and carefully remove all the fat; whisk up twelve whites of eggs with a pound and a half of coarsely - pounded sugar, the juice of ten lemons and the peel of two, and a small stick of cinnamon ; add the stock from the calves’ feet to this while warm, boil it up for a quarter of an hour, then put it in half a pint of white wine ; boil it up once more, and let it stand for ten minutes covered up in the pan, then strain through a jelly-bag two or three times till it runs quite clear, and put it into a mould, which place on the ice or in a cool place to set. A very good nourishing jelly may be made of neats’ feet, omitting the wine and using only four lemons. 599. Sponge Jelly or Jelly k la Russe.—Take a pint of calves’- feet jelly; just melt it; whisk it over some ice till it looks like thick cream ; fill a mould with this, and when cold turn it out. 600. Punch Jelly.—Add half a teacupful of brandy, and the same of rum, to a pint and a half of calves’-feet jelly ; put it in moulds, and ice. 601. Clarified Isinglass.—Break the isinglass in pieces with a hammer, wash it in several waters- and to four ounces add six pints of water, which reduce by boiling to one-third, skimming it meanwhile carefully; strain through a silk sieve, and it is ready to use for jellies or creams. 602. Jelly of Orange Flowers and Champagne.—Take a handful of orange-flowers, put the leaves of them in fresh water in a pan, set them on the fire, and give them one boil; drain and throw them into clarified syrup; boil them again in this a minute or two, take them off, and when nearly cold add five or six glasses of champagne, a little melted isinglass, and the juice of two lemons. Mix well together, and pass it through a double tammy; shake it well, and pour it into china cups; set them in three pounds of ice which you have previously beaten fine and placed in a convenient vessel that will hold eight or nine cups; cover them with a sheet of paper, and leave them to get firm. When ready, wipe the cups and dish them. The jelly should not be too stiff, but delicate and shaking. If, however, it is wished to set it in a mould, more isinglass must be added, or it will fall. Other flowers may be used in the same way, and maraschino, noyeau, etc., substituted for champagne. 603. Pineapple Jelly.—Cut the best part of a pineapple either in slices or rounds, rather thicker, but of the size of a crown-piece; boil these and the rind in clarified sugar, with the juice of two lemons, then add some ready prepared isinglass ; strain the whole through a jelly-bag, and pour the jelly into the mould to the depth of a quarter of an inch, then set the mould onPUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. Ill the ice to freeze. When the jelly is firm, lay slices of the best part of the pineapple, in any design you please (taking care that they are dry), on the jelly, sticking them together with a little more jelly, which you must allow to set on the ice before filling the mould. As soon as this is firm fill it up, and surround the mould with ice. 604. Cherry-Jelly in Moulds. —Boil Morefio cherries till they come to a pulp, which will be in about twenty minutes ; strain them through a jelly-bag; bottle and cork it till wanted for use, then heat as much as you require, sweeten to taste, and add an ounce and a half of melted isinglass. Strain through a jelly-bag into a mould, and set it in a cool place or on the ice till wanted to serve. 605. Orange-Jelly.—Take twelve oranges; cut each in two ; squeeze them through a silk sieve into a dish; rub the peel of three of the oranges off on a lump of sugar, and scrape off all the yellow part, which gives the jelly a fine flavour; break half a pound of sugar into small pieces; put it in a pan ; beat the white of half an egg up with water till it gets white, and add it to the sugar; let it reduce till it begins to bubble, then pour in the juice of the oranges. The heat of the sugar will clarify the jelly. Do not let it boil, but as soon as you perceive a yellow scum, skim the jelly, and pour it through a jelly-bag. Boil an ounce of isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of water for two hours, and when the jelly is nearly cold mix it with it. When the jelly is cold, but not before, pour it into a mould to set. Lemon jelly is made in the same way, but requires rather more sugar. 606. Orange Sponge Jelly.— Dissolve two ounces of isjj»glass in one pint of water, and strain it through a sieve; add the juice of two China oranges, four Seville oranges, and one lemon, with about half a pound of fine sugar; whisk it till it looks like a sponge, put it into a mould, and when set turn it out. 607. Apple-Jelly.—Deduce two pounds of juicy apples boiled with a teacupful of water, rub them through a sieve, add half a pound of sugar, the juice of two and the peel of one lemon. Have reedy half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly, add it to the apples, and boil all to- gether; strain it, take out the lemon-peel, and pour it into your mould; set it in a cool place. If half an ounce of isinglass is not enough to stiffen it, more may be added; but as little as possible should always be used. Pineapple is an excellent addition. 608. Red Strawberry-Jelly.— To a pint and a half of calf’s-foot jelly add, when melted, two spoon- fuls of cochineal; arrange whole strawberries in the mould; pour in the jelly; when cold and set turn it out. Other fruit may be done in the same way. 609. Raspberry-Jelly.—Put the fruit into a mortar, with a suffi- ciency of sugar to sweeten it; mix together, and add a little water. When all the juice is extracted, pass it through a jelly-bag, add isinglass to stiffen it (the quantity depends upon how much fruit you have), then put it into a mould, with ice over and under. No salt112 DAINTY DISHES must be mixed with the ice. When set, turn it out. Do not bruise the fruit too much, or the small seeds will spoil the flavour. Strawberry and currant may be done the same. 610. Jelly and Miroton of Peaches.—Cut a dozen peaches into halves, peel them gently, and boil them a short time in a thin syrup. If the peaches are very fine, you may leave them almost raw. Break the stones, peel the kernels, and throw them into the hot syrup with the fruit; leave the peaches to soak in the syrup about an hour, and then use them as follows : Drain the peaches on a sieve, squeeze into the syrup the juice of six lemons; pass this through a jelly-bag; when very clear, put some clarified isinglass into it. Choose a plain mould, and pour some into it, and set it on the ice; when quite firm drop the peaches on to the jelly, and lay the kernels between ; pour some more jelly over, and let it freeze; then fill the mould gently, and again put it on the ice. A great quantity of ice, with some salt, should be round the mould, as this jelly is very delicate and extremely liable to break. 611. Creme au Gel4e.—Take half a pint of jelly and half a pint of cream ; the jelly must be warm; whip them well together, till it is about milk-warm; put it into a mould, and set it in a cool place. If ice is to be had, it should be placed on it, and also whipped in ice. It may be flavoured with maraschino, noyeau, or any other flavour preferred. 612. Flemish Cream.—1Three- quarters of a pint of thin cream, the yolks of six eggs, a small quantity of lemon-peel, a teaspoon- ful of arrowroot, one laurel-leaf, and as much loaf-sugar as will sweeten it to taste; set it over a slow fire in a saucepan, and keep stirring till it boils ; strain through a sieve, and stir again till it is cold to prevent its getting lumpy; add to it a glass of madeira, then beat the whites of the six eggs very light, and stir them in. Put it in a mould, and set it in a cool place or on the ice till it is served. 613. Dutch Cream.—Break ten yolks of eggs into a stew-pan, with four glasses of white wine, a little cinnamon and lemon-peel; stir it over a slow fire till it becomes thick; have ready melted half an ounce of isinglass and a pint of cream, well whipped. Mix the isin- glass and eggs together, and stir them round till quite cold; then add the cream, and put the whole in a mould to set on the ice or in a cool place. 614. Italian Cream. — Take a pint of thick fresh cream; whip it well; add half a handful of fine sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and three tablespoonfuls of madeira; dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little water, and strain it into the cream, then put it in your mould. A little less isinglass in winter will be sufficient. 615. Plombiere. — Take one pound of sweet almonds and four ounces of bitter; pound them fine together, and put them into a stew-pan with one pound of fine lump sugar, a quart of single cream, and twelve yolks of eggs; turn on the fire till thick, pass through a tammy, and when cold freeze like any other ice. Twenty113 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTBY, ETC. minutes before serving work into it half a pot of apricot jam, and as you serve lay the rest of the jam on the top, or put it in the centre. It should be dished rough, not put in a mould. 616. Queen Mab’s Pudding (Cold).—Take one pint of cream, one ounce of isinglass, one ounce of mixed citron and lemon-peel, two ounces of preserved cherries, and sugar to taste; add half a wineglassful of brandy; mix well, pour into a mould, and ice. 617. Lemon - Cheese. — Take a quart of cream just on the turn, rasp the rinds of two lemons, and squeeze their juice into the cream; whip with a whisk always the same way for about twenty minutes; take a sieve, on which lay a piece of fine muslin large enough to con- tain the whipped cream; pour the cream on to it, place the sieve on a hollow dish that the whey may run off, and let it stand twenty- four hours. You can sweeten it to taste while whipping. 618. Preserved Pine - Apple Cream.—Take a teacupful of syrup of preserved pine-apple, and the juice of two lemons, two ounces of sugar, and four slices of pine-apple cut in small dice; mix with this an ounce of isinglass boiled for half an hour in half a pint of water; whisk all together till nearly cold, then add a quart of well-whisked cream; mix well, and put it into your mould, which set on the ice or in a cool place. Ginger cream of preserved ginger may be made in the same way. 619. Orange - Cream.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar; add to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat all together for ten minutes; then by degrees pour in a pint of boiling cream ; beat it till it is cold; put it into custard cups or glasses; set them in a deep dish or pan of boiling water to stand till cold. If preferred in a mould, half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a very little water must be added with the cream. This is excellent. 620. Coffee-Cream.—Boil a calf’s foot in a quart of water till it re- duces to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat; make a teacup- ful of very strong coffee, clear it with a bit of isinglass that it may be perfectly bright; pour it on the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream; sweeten to taste; give it one boil up, and pour it into your mould. 621. Strawberry, Raspberry, or Currant Cream. — If the fruit is fresh pulled, take equal weights of fruit and sugar; then clarify the sugar and put in the fruit; let them boil till the sugar has quite penetrated the fruit; when cold, take two or three spoonfuls of it and whisk it up with a pint of cream; then take some of the whole fruit picked, and mix a few spoonfuls with the whisked cream; stiffen with a little isinglass, and put it in a mould. 622. Sack-Cream.—Boil a pint of cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, three spoonfuls of white wine, a little lemon-peel and sugar, over a gentle fire; stir it till it has the consistency of thick cream; then take it off, and continue stirring till oold. Serve in cups or glasses. H114 DAINTY DISHEB 623. Crime au Till Vert.—Boil a pint of cream and the same of milk, into which throw a pinch of salt and some sugar; when the cream boils, throw three spoonfuls of the best green tea into it; give it a boil; add the yolks of ten very fresh eggs ; keep constantly stirring it on the fire till the cream becomes thick, but mind that the eggs are not over - done; then add some melted isinglass; pass it through a tammy, and put it in the mould, which set in ice. When you wish to make the cream more delicate, let it get cold, and before you put the isinglass in, set it in a vessel over ice, and whip it when quite frozen; add some cold melted isinglass. This method requires less isinglass, and the cream is lighter. 624. Orange-Flower Cream.— Boil half a pint of cream with a handful of fresh orange-flowers, and let the cream cool; strain and mix with a pint of thick cream; keep whipping it over ice till it is quite thick; add half an ounce of melted isinglass; put it into a mould and surround it with ice. 625. Mille Fruit Cream.—Take a spoonful each of preserved straw- berries, raspberries, apricots, cur- rants, greengages, ginger, pine- apple, gooseberries, plums, and orange-peel cut small; add an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water for half an hour, and three ounces of sugar; whisk till nearly cold, then add a quart of cream whisked to a froth. Mix well and put in a mould, which surround with ice. 626. Caramel-Cream. — Take a quarter of a pound of lump-sugar; put it in a sugar-pan with three tablespoonfuls of water; set it on a stove fire till it becomes burnt brown and tastes rather bitter; have ready a quarter of a pint of boiling cream, which pour into the sugar; strain it through a fine sieve into a basin, and let it cool a little ; take six yolks of eggs and mix with the cream; put it in a stew-pan over the fire, and whisk it till it becomes thick, but be sure it does not boil, otherwise it will curdle and spoil. Now put it back into the basin, and add warm as much melted isinglass as will make it stiff enough for a mould (about half an ounce). Stir it with a wooden spoon, or whisk till nearly cold; have ready a pint of whipped cream to mix with it; sweeten to taste; and immediately put it into the mould. 627. Clouted Cream to eat with Tarts.—Take four pints of new milk; set it on a clear fire, and stir it now and then; when- ever it begins to boil take it off, and put it into broad flat dishes to cool; stir it about in the dishes for some time after it is turned out of the pan; set in a cool place and let it stand twenty-four hours. It is excellent to eat with all sorts of fruit tarts, and may be served with cream poured over it. 628. V el vet - Cream. — Take a little syrup, lemon, orange, or pine- apple ; put two or three spoonfuls of it in the bottom of a dish; heat some new milk lukewarm; pour it on the syrup ; put in as much rennet as will set it, and cover it over till ready. 629. To Freeze Ices. — Make them according to the following receipts; put them in the freezing- pots, cover them with the lid, andPUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 115 prepare the natural ice in the follow- ing manner: Pound it small, and with about eight pounds of ice mix one pound of salt; bury the freez- ing-pots in this ; then take the lids off them, and work the fruit or other ice in them with a wooden spattle, scraping it from the sides and mixing well till it is sufficiently frozen to hold together. If the ice is to be made in a shape, fill the mould quite full, shaking it so as to avoid air-holes; put it in the ice in the same manner, and let it stand half an hour. To turn it out, dip it in cold water, take off the ends of the mould, then dip it again, and gently touch it with a spoon, when it will -come out. If it is to be served in china ice- pails, take it out with a spoon, arrange it in the pail, and put ice underneath. 630. To Clarify Sugar for Ice. —To three pounds of sugar add half a teaspoonful of the white of egg whisked together with a quart of water; when melted, let it boil, and skim it carefully. When no more scum rises, it is fit for use. 631. Strawberry Water - Ice from Fresh Fruit. — Pick the strawberries from their stalks and rub them through a sieve ; then take fine pounded sugar and mix with the pulp till it is smooth and the thickness of cream ; add a little lemon-juice to freshen it and give it more the flavour of fresh-picked strawberries. 632. Peach Water-Ice.—Take fresh peaches and rub them through a hair-sieve ; to whatever quantity of pulp you have add the same of clarified sugar, half as muoh water, and lemon-juioe sufficient to make it as near the original flavour of the fruit as possible. 633. Cherry Water-Ice.^Take good fresh Duke cherries, and pick them from their stalks; then pound them in a mortar and break the kernels 7 lay them on a sieve, drain the juice from the pulp ; then add to the quantity of juice you have half as much water, pouring it over the pulp in the sieve to get out what juice may remain, and the same quantity of clarified sugar; pass the juice through the sieve again, and add a small quantity of lemon-juice. 634. Orange Water - Ice.— Choose three rough-rind oranges, and rub them on a piece of sugar till all the zest is off; then scrape all the sugar where they have been rubbed off, and squeeze the juice of the oranges and of six lemons on to it; add to the quantity of juice half as much water, and the same of clarified sugar. 635. Pineapple Water-Ice.— Grate and pound one pound of fresh pineapples; add a pint of clarified sugar-syrup, the juice of two lemons, and half a pint of water; pass the whole through a sieve; cut three slices of pineapple in small dice, mix with the rest, and freeze. 636. Noyeau Water-Ice.—Take half a pint of lemon-juice, half a pint of sugar-syrup, a quarter of a pint of water; mix together and freeze; then stir in one glass of noyeau and four whites of eggs whisked up to a strong froth. Maraschino may be made in the some way. 637. Lemon Water-Ice is made the same as orange water-ioe,DAINTY DISHES 116 but the zest of two lemons is sufficient. 638. Barberry Water-Ice.— Pound ripe barberries ; beat them, and rub them through a sieve ; to a pint of the juice add the same quantity of syrup and half a pint of water; then freeze. 639. Frontignac Grape Water- Ice.—Squeeze out the juice of the grapes through a sieve, and to four spoonfuls of grape-syrup add half a pint of lemon-juice, a pint of clarified sugar-syrup, and half a pint of water; mix together and freeze. 640. Punch-Ice.—Rub the rinds of two lemons off on sugar; take a pint of lemon-juice, the same of syrup, and half a pint of water ; mix all together and freeze it hard; then add a teacupful of brandy and one of rum; mix well together, and then stir in the whites of six eggs whipped to a very stiff froth. 641. Red Currant Water-Ice. —Squeeze the currants through a sieve; to a pint of the juice add half a pint of syrup and a quarter of a pint of water. White and black currants may be made the same. 642. Plain Ice-Cream.—Take good thick, fresh cream; sweeten it with a very little sugar ; then put it in the freezing-pot; take a whisk and whisk it well together ; freeze it in small oval shapes, like an egg or a plum, and serve to eat with strawberries or other fruit. 643. Coffee-Ice.—Two ounces of the best whole coffee, four yolks of eggs, a quart of cream, and sugar to sweeten it to taste; mix all together, and set it on to boil; stir till nearly cold; when you take it off, pass it through a sieve, and freeze. The coffee-berry may be either roasted or green; if green the ice will look nearly white, which is usually preferred. 644. Green Tea Ice-Cream.—Is made as above, and with the same proportion of ingredients. 645. Brown Bread Ice-Cream. —Cut brown bread in thin slices ; dry it crisp before the fire, and sift it through a sieve; to a quart of plain ice-cream, made as above, addateacupful of the breadcrumbs; mix well together, and freeze. 646. Ratafia Biscuit Cream.— Two ounces of Ratafia, the yolks of two eggs, and a pint of cream; boil all together, pass through a sieve, and freeze. 647. Custard Ice-Cream.—A quart of cream and five eggs, whisked together, with a little sugar ; boil it, stirring all the time, with the rind of two lemons cut fine ; strain it, stir till nearly cold, and freeze. The same mixture is very good served unfrozen in cups, as custard. 648. Chocolate Cream-Ice.— Shred one cake of chocolate; dis- solve it with three ounces of sugar, a quart of cream, and three yolks of eggs; boil, and then whisk till cold, and freeze. 649. Pineapple Cream-Ice.— Grate one pound of fresh pine- apple; add half a pint of syrup, a pint and a half of cream, and the juice of two lemons ; rub through a sieve; cut two shoes of pineapple into smah dice; mix with it, and freeze. 650. Pineapple Jam-Ice.—To a pound of jam add a pint of good cream, and mix it together; rub itBAKING 117 through a hair sieve, and add as much lemon-juice to it as will make it near the flavour of the fresh fruit. All jam-ices, such as strawberry, raspberry, and apricot, may be made in the same way. 651. Orange-Flower Cream- Ice. — Chop an ounce of fresh candied orange-flowers fine; add three ounces of sugar, four yolks of eggs, one quart of cream, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; boil; take it off, and whisk till cold, then freeze. 652. China Orange-Cream.— Rub the rinds of six oranges od sugar, and scrape it off; adfl the juice of two lemons, three ounces of sugar, and a pint and a half of cream ; rub all together through a hair sieve, and freeze. Lemon may be made in the same way. 653. Ginger Cream-Ice.—Take four ounces of preserved ginger; cut it in small pieces; two spoon- fuls of ginger syrup, four yolks of eggs, and a pint and a half of cream; let it boil, then whisk to- gether till oold, and freeze. Baking, BREAD, BISCUITS, CAKES, ETC. 654. Yorkshire Method of Making Yeast.—One ounce of hops boiled in a gallon of water for twenty minutes; let it stand tiff lukewarm; mix gradually with this half a pound of flour, and cork it up for three days. Before using bruise a few potatoes very fine, stir them into the yeast, and set it before the fire to work for a few homs before it is to be used. A pint is sufficient for a stone of flour. When once this yeast is made, some of the old should always be kept to mix with the new, when it need only be corked up for thirty-six hours. 655. Other Methods.—Boil one pound of good flour, half a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, for an hour ; let it cool till it is lukewarm, then bottle, and cork it close. It will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. One pint is sufficient to make eighteen pounds of bread. 656. An Excellent Yeast.— Boil five English pints of soft water; take a large breakfast- cupful of ground malt, mix it in a basin with a little of the boiling water, let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then put it into the pan with the rest of the water and two ounces of hops ; let it boil twenty minutes, strain it into a large jar, and add to it by degrees, that it may be well mixed, a pint of flour. Let it stand till it is about milk- warm, and then pour into it a bottle of yeast. Let it stand ten hours in a warm place, when it may be bottled and is fit for use. This yeast must not be kept in too cool a place. In making bread you must use at least two-thirds more than of common yeast. There cannot be a better method.DAINTY DISHES 118 657. To Clarify Yeast.—Take a quart of yeast; put it in two gallons of cold water ; let it remain one night. By the next morning the yeast will have fallen to the bottom. Drain off the water, and any yeast that may be floating on the top. Your yeast will now be white and sweet. When it is to be used, mix about half a handful of bran with it, and then strain from the bran through a sieve into the flour you are going to make your bread of. This makes it perfectly sweet. 658. To Make Fine Bread or Rolls.—To three pounds of flour add one pint of warm milk and a quarter of a pint of clarified yeast; stir it thinly into part of the flour, and leave it all night. Next morn- ing warm another pint of milk ; add it to the flour and yeast, stir it round a few times, and then work in lightly the rest of the flour ; let it remain half an hour, then make up your rolls. Let them rise till they are quite light, and bake in a hot oven. This paste for loaf- bread should be made somewhat stiffer than for rolls. 659. Excellent Bread.— Four- teen pounds of flour, four eggs, a pint of yeast, and enough luke- warm milk to make it into a dough the thickness of hasty pudding; leave it two hours to rise; sift over it some fine salt; work enough flour into it to make the dough of a proper consistence; make into loaves, and bake in a quick oven. 660. A Plain Loaf of Bread.— Half a peck of the best seconds flour, one teaspoonful of salt, three tablespoonfuls of yeast, and a pint and a half of water, allowed to rise, and baked, makes one good large loaf of bread. 661. To make Brown Bread.— Take thirty pounds of flour and forty pounds of bran, or seventy pounds of flour only once bolted or sifted, so that merely the coarser bran is removed. Into forty-two pounds of this mix a quart of good thick yeast previously strained through a hair sieve (if thin it will require more); then stir in with a spoon a sufficient quantity of luke- warm water to make a proper dough, not too stiff. It makes two loaves more, and still better bread, if you use bran-water in- stead of plain water. It is made by boiling five pounds of coarse bran in rather more than four gallons of water, so that when boiled perfectly smooth you have three gallons and three quarts clear bran-water. Leave the dough to stand two hours; if it does not rise sufficiently, add two teaspoon- fuls of coarse brown sugar. "When it has risen, add a pint of salt dis- solved in plain or bran - water, according as [you have made your bread (this and the bran-water must both be strained), and the rest of the flour. Work it well for an hour—the coarser the flour the more working it requires ; cover it up, and leave it to stand at least two hours more. Next lay it on a table (it is better if near the fire), and alternately work it with your hands and roll it out with a rolling- pin for a little while; then shape it into two round pieces for loaves of the shape desired. Wet the sides that are to be joined with a little water, and make a hollow with the hand in the upper part. See that the oven is properlyBAKING 119 cleaned and heated, and put the bread in, where it should remain about two hours. Keep the oven closed, otherwise the bread will crack. 662. Very Good Bread.—Take a peck of the best flour, two quarts of milk and water, mixed half-and- half, together with a teacupful of yeast and a little salt; make a hole in the flour; pour it in, and stir all well up with a wooden spoon; set it in a warm place, and let it stand till you think it has suffi- ciently risen, which is usually in from two to three horns; then work it up lightly, and let it stand two minutes before you put it in the oven; bake according to your judgment, but it generally takes an hour and a half. 663. Aerated Bread.—One pound of flour, ninety drops of muriatio acid, seventy-five grains of carbonate of soda, seventy grains of salt, and half a tumbler of water; mix the salt and soda together; stir the flour, in small quantities at a time, slowly and thoroughly into the salt and soda; then add the water and acid, kneading as quickly as possible together (half a minute should do it); then put it at once into the oven. 664. French Rolls. —Take a quarter of a peck of flour, a teacup- ful of yeast, as much warm milk, with an ounce of butter in it, as will mix them not very stiff; add one egg. Cover the dough with a clean flannel, and let it stand to rise ; when risen, if for making smooth French rolls, add an ounce more butter; if for rasped ones, use as it is; bake them on a tin in a quick oven, leaving the door open till they are brown on one side, then turn them, and close the oven-door (a quarter of ar^lour will do them). They should be rasped immediately, or they will turn soft. The same dough is good for other rolls, and if a little sugar is added, and currants or caraway seeds, makeb excellent buns. 665. Sally Lunns.—Two pounds of flour, two ounces of butter, and one ounce of sugar; rub them well together; take four table- spoonfuls of yeast, mixed with a little warm water; set the yeast to rise, and when it rises a little beat up with it a gill of cream and some milk (or all milk, if new, will do), and the yolks of four eggs. Warm this a little ; add to it the dough, and work it all together; the dough must not be quite so stiff as bread dough. Mould it with your hands in small round cakes ; lay them on an iron baking- plate to rise, in a warm place; bake them in not too hot an oven. They will take about an hour, and are eaten cut open and buttered. After they are buttered they should be closed and returned to the oven for a minute or two. 666. Bath Cakes.—Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour; add a spoonful of good yeast; and with some warm cream work all into a light paste ; set it by [the fire to rise. When you make them up, work in four ounces of caraway seeds, keeping some to strew on the tops. Make them in round cakes the size of a bun. Bake them on tins, and serve hot. 667. Cheltenham Cakes. — Six pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two120 DAINTY DISHES eggs, and a teacupful of yeast; mix all together with some warm milk; set it to rise for an hour; make into round cakes; let them rise again ; and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. 668. Breakfast Cakes.—A pint of flour, two eggs, one spoonful of yeast, and as much cream as will mix it up light; make it up into cakes; let them rise an hour, and bake in a moderate oven. 669. Whigs.—Eub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound and a half of flour, very fine; beat three eggs together with two spoon- fuls of yeast; add a pint of milk; mix well, and strain through a sieve on to the flour; beat all together till quite smooth; cover it over, and let it stand three hours at a little distance from the fire ; then stir in half a pound of sugar and half a pound of currants ; cover it over again, and let it stand an hour; bake them in tins, which fill half full, and stand them before the fire for an hour to rise. A quarter of an hour in a quick oven is sufficient to bake them. 670. Buns.—Mix a quarter of a pound of butter with a pound of flour; beat up the yolks and whites of two eggs in half a pint of new milk, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar and a tablespoonful of yeast; mix this with the flour, and work all well together; drop it out of a large spoon in a round form on tin plates, and when it has risen, bake. This quantity should be sufficient to make eight buns. 671. Barn Break (Irish).—The dough of half a quartern loaf, two ounces of caraway seeds, six ounces of sugar, four eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter; work it all up together with as much flour as will make it a fit consistency to bake ; this will take half an hour to do ; make it into a round cake or loaf, and bake. 672. Muffins.—Take four pounds of fine flour, two pints of warm milk, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and four spoonfuls of new yeast; mix all together, and beat it up well with your hand; set it before the fire to rise; make the muffins round with the bottom of a plate well floured; flour them on both sides, and bake on an iron plate in the oven. 673. Another Receipt for Muffins.—One pound of flour, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, mixed with as much warm water as to- gether will fill a teacup; set it up to rise and fall; then beat it to a thick batter till it draws out as you take it up. Make the muffins round with a knife and spoon ; roll them well in flour; let them he a few minutes, and bake on an iron plate. When they are quite done they will rattle on being knocked. 674. Crumpets.—A pound and a half of flour, three pints of milk, two spoonfuls of yeast, two fresh eggs ; mix the milk just warm with it; beat the whole into a batter; let it stand till it rises in blisters to the top, and bake on a polished iron baking-sheet with a rim to it. 675. Cringles.— Rub a quarter of a pound of butter in one pound of flour and two ounces of sugar; take half the dough, and set it to rise, with two spoonfuls of yeast and a quarter of a pint of milk; when risen add the rest of the dough to it, with two eggs and aBAKING 121 quarter of a pint more milk; make it up into a light dough; roll it out the thickness of a finger; twist it up in the shape of figures of eight, rings, or fingers; let them rise on the tins before baking; when done brush them with sugar dissolved in milk, and sprinkle a few small bits of sugar on the top. 676. German Rolls. — Half a peck of the finest flour, and as much new milk as will make it into dough; mix it with half a pint of yeast and half an ounce of sugar, and set it to rise; when risen add an ounce of butter melted, and two eggs beaten up in it; make the dough into rolls; put them to rise in a warm place, and bake on buttered tins in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. 677. Rusks. — One pound of flour, one ounce of butter, one ounce of sugar, one egg, four spoonfuls of yeast, and as much warm milk as will make the whole into dough; roll it out, and cut it into cakes the size you wish ; set them before the fire a quarter of an hour before you bake; put them into the oven, and when they are just coloured take them out and split them; return them to the oven, and bake till they are quite brown. 678. French Rusks.—Take a clean copper pan, and break into it a pound weight of yolks of eggs; add a pound and a half of pounded sugar, and with a large wooden spoon stir them well together for ten minutes; to this put two pounds of flour and two handfuls of caraway seeds, and mix well; roll out the paste in a roll about fourteen inches long, and six or seven thick; lay three sheets of paper on a baking-plate, put the roll of paste on it, and flat it dpwn with your hand. It should ^Be an inch thick in the middle, and thin at the edges. Do not bake them too much, or they will not cut without breaking. Damp the paper to remove them from it, and with a sharp knife cut out the rusks about a quarter of an inch broad and a finger long; lay them flat on a wire baking-plate; put them again into the oven, so as to make them quite crisp and dry, and they are done, 679. Brioche.—A quarter of a pound of flour, two spoonfuls of yeast; let it rise for half an hour ; then take threequarters of a pound more flour, and rub into it half a pound of butter and a little salt; now mix eight eggs with it, and work it till it looks quite like cream; add this to the flour and yeast; mix them well together, and set it to rise gently for three or four hours; butter the mould well; put in the brioche ; let it stand in a warm place an hour longer ; bake in a moderate oven. An hour is generally sufficient. 680. Des Echaudids. — To a pound of flour add six eggs well beat, half a pound of butter, and two spoonfuls of yeast; mix thoroughly; roll them in pieces about the size of an apple; put them into boiling water for two or three minutes; take them carefully out with a skimmer ; drain them, and put them on a tin in the oven. In three or four minutes they will be done enough. 681. Bread Cake.—Two pounds of the best flour, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of caraway seeds, two eggs, a quarterDAINTY DISHEB 122 of a pound of butter, a pint of milk, and two tablespoonfuls of yeast; let it rise like ordinary bread, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven. Currants may be used in- stead of caraway seeds. 682. A Diet Loaf. — Beat a pound of eggs with a pound of sifted sugar till it looks quite thick and white ; then add a little ginger and cinnamon, powdered, some caraway seeds, and one pound of dried flour; butter a mould, and bake it. 683. A Gingerbread Loaf.—To a pint of treacle add six eggs well beat up, two pounds of flour, and twelve ounces of fresh butter beat to a cream ; half a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of orange-peel cut into small pieces, two ounces of ground ginger, and one of ground cloves; mix all these in- gredients together, and the more it is beat up the lighter it will be. When ready for the oven put it into a tin shape, with buttered paper round the loaf; do not allow the oven to be too hot. It should be baked about an hour. To know if it is thoroughly done put a knife into the cake; if it comes out clean it is done enough. Leave it in the mould till cold. 684. Nuremburg Gingerbread. —Beat the whites and yolks of eight eggs, together with one pound of finely-sifted sugar, for half an hour; mix with this the peel of a lemon cut very thin, and minced fine, and a tablespoonful of ground spices in the proportion of two parts of cinnamon and one part each of cloves and cardamoms ; a tablespoonful of finely-cut candied orange - peel, half a pound of blanched and roasted almonds sliced small, and one pound of fine dry flour; all to be thoroughly mixed together, made into cakes about eight inches long by four wide and two thick, spread on wafer paper, and baked in a quick oven. 685. Gingerbread without Butter.—Mix with two pounds of treacle a quarter of a pound each of candied ginger, orange and lemon peel, all sliced very thin, half an ounce of caraway seeds, half an ounce powdered ginger, and as much flour as will mix it into a soft paste; lay it on tin plates in convenient-sized cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 686. Honeycomb Gingerbread. —Bub together half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of ground ginger, one each of allspice and cinnamon in powder, the rind of one lemon grated, and as much treacle as will make it into paste to spread very thinly on tins ; bake it gently while hot; cut it in squares, and roll it over a stick like wafers till cold. Keep them in a dry place, or they will lose their crispness. 687. Gingerbread Nuts. —One pound of butter rubbed fine in three pounds of flour; add to it a pound of fino-sifted sugar, an ounce of caraway seeds, an ounce of ginger, and a grated nutmeg; mix all well together with a pound and a quarter of treacle ; make it into a stiff paste, and form into nuts or little cakes ; bake on paper in a slack oven till quite crisp. The quantity of spices may be increased if liked. These nuts are excellent.BAKING 128 688. Ginger Cakes.— Half a pound of flour, three ounces of Lisbon sugar, three ounces of butter, half an ounce of ginger, and the yolks of two eggs mixed with either cream or milk ; then dropped on tins or paper and baked in a slack oven. 689. Rice Cake.— Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the grated peel of two lemons; mix one pound of [ground rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of fine-sifted sugar; beat it up with the eggs by degrees for an hour, with a woodqp. spoon ; butter a pan well, and put it in at the mouth of the oven, which should be a gentle one. An hour and a half will bake it. 690. Oat Cakes.—A quarter of a pound of butter to two pounds of oatmeal, then add as much water as will just work them together, but the less the better, and hot water is best; roll them out with a rolling-pin as thin as possible. One side should be done on the girdle and the other on the toaster. Oat cakes may also be made with- out any butter, mixed with hot water, and a pinch of salt added. As little water should always be used as possible, for it makes them flinty. 691. Barley-meal Scones.—Put a pan full of milk on the fire, and when it boils stir in barley-flour till it is as thick as possible; add a little salt, and roll them out as thin as you can ; bake them on the girdle, but do not keep them too long on it as it makes them tough. 692. Yorkshire Cakes.—Three pounds of flour, a pint and a half of warm milk, four spoonfuls of yeast, and three eggs; beat the whole well together, and let it rhie ; then form the cakes round ; ^flace them on the baking-tins and let them rise again before putting them in the oven, which must be of a moderate heat. Five ounces of butter may be warmed with the milk and added if preferred. 693. Balloon Cakes.—Mix two tablespoonfuls of yeast with four of cream; add to it six of flour; make it into a light dough ; set it to rise in a warm place ; roll it out very thin ; cut it into round cakes and bake on tins for four minutes. 694. Savoy Biscuit or Cake.— Half a pound of very fine dry flour, one pound of dry pounded sugar, fourteen very fresh eggs ; rasp over the sugar the peel of two oranges or lemons; put the sugar again to dry; break the eggs, separating the yolks from the whites. Be very careful to see the eggs are fresh, as one bad one would spoil all. Put the sugar with the yolks and beat them together with a wooden spoon ; beat the whites to a firm froth, then mix with the yolks, and sift the flour through a hair sieve over them. Mix gently with the whip. Butter a mould, and powder it over with sugar; put the biscuit in the mould—a little at a time, to prevent its blistering at the top; put some ashes on a baking-dish, and put the mould over this in the oven. The heat must be moderate. About an hour is sufficient, but be careful not to remove it till it is done. 695. Sponge - Cake. — To one pound of flour finely sifted take twelve good fresh eggs ; break the eggs into a pan, whisk them over a cool stove till milk-warm; whiskDAINTY DISHES 124 for about a quarter of an hour, or till they are quite thick and light; then stir in by degrees the flour, but not till the eggs are cold; add the grate of two lemon peels; bake in whatever shape or shapes you please, in a quick oven. 696. Sugar Biscuit.—One pound of eggs, one of sugar, and one of flour. The sugar must be sifted fine, and mixed carefully with the eggs; then stir in the flour, pre- viously well dried; drop them in rounds on paper, bake, and glaze on the top with sugar. 697. Naples Biscuits. — One pound and a half of Lisbon sugar put into a pan with three-quarters of a pint of water and a small cup- ful of orange-flower water. Boil the sugar with the water till quite melted, then break twelve eggs, both the yolks and the whites, and whisk them well together. Now pour the Lisbon syrup, boiling hot, in with the eggs, whisking all the time as fast as you can, and con- tinue till it is cold and set. Then mix in as lightly as possible one pound and a half of flour; lay two sheets of paper on the baking- plate ; make the edges stand up about an inch and a half high ; pour the batter in, sift powdered sugar over, and put it in the oven, but do not leave it a minute for fear it should burn. When baked, take it out in the paper; let it stand till cold ; then wet the paper till it comes off with ease, and cut the cake what shape and size you like. It may also be baked in tins. 698. Biscuits k la Cuillidre are made of the same mixture as Savoy biscuits. Use a silver teaspoon to shape them; fill the spoon, and drop the batter on paper, pulling it along so as to make it about three inches long and half an inch wide; with your fingers spread it a little wider at both ends than in the middle; sift sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. When done cut them hot off the paper. 699. Little Short-Cakes.—Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of pounded sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste ; roll them out thin, and cut with a wine-glass into round cakes. Currants or caraways may be added to them. 700. Luncheon Cake. — One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, one egg, a pint of milk, and three tablespoonfuls of baking powder. The egg and milk should not be added till the cake has risen and is ready to be put into the oven. 701. Pitcaithley Bannock.— Dry before the fire one pound of fine flour; then melt half a pound of butter, and mix it well with the flour. Add two ounces of almonds blanched and thinly sliced, two of candied orange-peel cut fine, two of sugar, and the same of carraway comfits. Knead all well together, and bake an hour in a slow oven. 702. Potato Biscuits. — Rub potatoes through a sieve; take half a pound of this and mix with a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and as much butter as will enable you to roll the paste out into rounds the size of a saucer; knead all well together, and bake in a quick oven.PICKLING AND PRESERVING 125 703. Marathon Biscuits.—Rub with new warm milk; add a taljle- into a pound of flower three ounces spoonful of yeast; knead it quietly; of butter, a pinch of salt, and some let it stand an hour, and bake in a sugar; then make it into a paste quick oven. flMcftUrtg anb preserving. 704. Indian Pickle.—One gallon of vinegar, and a quarter of a pound of garlic, half a pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of ginger, two ounces of white mustard-seed, two teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper; mix all well together; lay any vegetables you wish to pickle, such as onions, cauliflowers, French beans, radish pods, gherkins, cap- sicums, etc., in salt for three days; then put them into the pickle - bottle, and cork, and in three weeks they will be fit for use. 705. Hot Pickles.—One gallon of vinegar, two pounds of mustard- seed, one pound of long pepper, one of black pepper, two pints of Chili vinegar, a bottle of Cayenne pepper, six pieces of horse-radish the size of an egg, sliced, and two cloves of garlic. All these in- gredients must be well boiled, and put in a jar till it cools; then put in enough turmeric to colour it with, or cover the jar till the pickle is quite cold, when you must boil it again; have ready prepared the different vegetables you mean to pickle—cabbages, cut cauliflowers, and French beans, shoots of young elder, celery, radish roots, apples, cucumbers, etc. These should be dried some days previously in the sun. If dusty, they must be cleansed by pouring boiling vinegar over them ; take them out, drain, and let them lie a night; then put them into the pickle, and tie the jar or bottle down with a bladder. If, after some months, you find there is not sufficient vinegar, pour off the pickle, and boil it up again with a quart of plain and a pint of Chili vinegar, adding another ounce of mustard-seed. These receipts are for a large quantity; but if smaller, the same proportions must be observed. 706. Pickle for Ham or Tongues.—Boil twenty pounds of salt in two gallons of water, skim- ming it well; then add one pound of saltpetre, three pounds of sugar, one ounce of cloves, the same each of mace and allspice, two ounces of whole pepper, garlic, shallots, thyme, and bay-leaves; boil it for a quarter of an horn-, then put it by to cool; when cold pour into oval crocks ready to receive the tongues or ham. The tongues should be well cleaned before putting them in by rubbing them with common salt, and laying them on a sloping board to drain for a night. This is a very good receipt. 707. Hamburgh Pickle.—Four gallons of water, six ounces of common salt, four ounces of salt- petre, eight ounces of brown sugar; boil it well and strain it. When cold you may put in beef, mutton, pork, or tongues. Mind that the meat is covered with the brine;DAINTY DISHES 126 and in nine or ten days it will be fit for use, but it will keep in the pickle quite good for two or three months. The pickle should be reboiled and strained once a month. 708. American Pickle. — To eight pints of cold spring water add seven pounds of large salt, half a pound of saltpetre, and one pound of treacle; mix all well together, and it is then fit to receive the meat-pork, beef, or tongues. In this pickle they never get hard. It will keep good three or four months, according to the quantity of meat that is put into it. 709. To Clarify Sugar for Pre- serving.—Allow to every pound of sugar half a pint of water, and to every two pounds the white of an egg; beat the eggs up well, and mix them among the water; then put in the sugar, and let it stand to soften a little before you set it on the fire: stir it after the pan is on the fire till the sugar is quite dissolved; when it comes to a boil, and the scum rises fast, throw in a little cold water, and let it con- tinue to boil till it rises again, then take the pan off; let the sugar settle a little, and skim it, letting the scum run through a hair sieve into the pan, so that nothing but the dross remains; set the pan again on the fire, and when it comes to a boil add more cold water, which makes a second scum rise ; treat it the same way as the first, and it is ready for use. The terms in sugar-boiling are first a ‘ small blow,’ which is when it bubbles if blown through a skim- mer ; five minutes more make it a ‘ strong blow ’ ; in four minutes it becomes a ‘ flutter ;’ and in five minutes after a ‘ crack,’ which is ascertained by dipping a stick in cold water, then in the sugar, and again in the water, when the sugar which adheres should slip off and crack between the fingers. One minute’s more boiling makes it caramel, when the pan should be taken off the fire, and stood to cool for a minute in water; if allowed to boil longer, the sugar becomes burnt, and is unfit for use. 710. Dried Fruits.—Take fresh- gathered peaches ; cut out the kernels; put them on a tin in the oven just as the bread comes out; when about half-done take them out, flatten them, and replace them till done sufficiently. Plums may be done in the same way, choosing those that fall from the trees. Apricots the same as peaches. Pears should be peeled, taking care to leave on the stalks ; then put them with the peel in a large pan full of water, boil them till they begin to soften, and then dry in the oven as the others. 711. To Preserve Currants and Gooseberries.—Have ready some perfectly dry, clean bottles; cut the currants from the larger stalks, and drop them gently into the bottle; to each bottle allow a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar; tie bladder over the bottles ; set them in a saucepan up to the neck in water, and let them boil half an hour, and remain in the water all night. Gooseberries the same: keep them in a cool place. Almost all fruit and young peas may be preserved in the same way. The bottles are better if kept in sand with the cork downwards; they should be carefully corked and rosined.PICKLING AND PEE SERVING 127 712. To Preserve Plums for Tarts. — Put the plums into a narrow-mouthed stone jar, and to every twelve pounds of plums allow seven pounds of raw sugar ; strew it among the plums as you put them in the jar ; tie up the mouth of the jar with several folds of paper, put them in a cool oven, and let them stand till the sugar has thoroughly penetrated the fruit, when they will be done enough, and the bottles must be corked close, and tied over with bladder. 713. To Preserve Cucumbers. —Lay a dozen large green cucum- bers in a pickle of salt and water for two days; then take them out and put them in plenty of fresh water for other two days, with a plate on the top of them to keep them down. Cover the bottom of a pan with vine leaves (cabbage will do), lay the cucumbers on them and cover with more leaves ; set the pan on the fire and give them a scald ; take the pan off, and let them stand till ahnost cold; repeat the scalding and cooling till the cucumbers begin to look green, then take them out, drain them, put them in a pan with water and leaves, andboil them three minutes; take them out carefully; make a slit in the flat side with the end of a teaspoon; scrape out the pulp and seeds; dry the cucumbers between the folds of a cloth; fill them with white pepper, a little mace, some sliced ginger, and some thin parings of lemon; tie them round with a fine packthread to keep in the seasonings; clarify a thin syrup of double-refined sugar, and when it is nearly cold pour it over the cucumbers, and keep them covered for two days; then si^un, reboil the syrup, and when cooi again pour it over them. Repeat this five times every two or three days, or till the cucumbers look quite transparent. Take them out of the syrup, and put into a rich syrup, which you will have mean- while prepared, adding the juice of four lemons. Put them into jars, cover with paper dipped in brandy, and tie them down close. 714. To Imitate Ginger — When white cos lettuce is begin- ning to run to seed cut off the stalks, and peel all the stringy part off them till only the heart is left; then cut in pieces about the size West Indian ginger usually is, and throw the pieces into water as you cut them ; wash them well ; have ready some sugar and water, in the proportion of a pound of sugar to five pints of water; add a large spoonful of pounded ginger, and boil the whole together for twenty minutes ; let it stand two days and boil again for half an hour ; repeat this five or six times, always leaving it in the same syrup, then drain it on a sieve and wipe it with a cloth. Prepare a fresh syrup, with as much raw ginger in it as will make it taste quite hot; boil the mock ginger in this two or three times, till it looks quite clear and tastes as hot as India ginger ; put it then in pots; when it is cold tie it close down. If this is done with care it is difficult to detect the mock from the real ginger. 715. Apple Ginger.—Pare and cut twelve pounds of apples in round pieces; add to them eight pounds of fine-sifted white sugar and four ounces of pounded ginger; let them stand forty-eight hours;DAINTY DISHES 128 then put all into a preserving-pan, and boil till the apples look clear ; pot them, and tie bladder over the top of the pots. It is better if the ginger is only bruised and put into a muslin bag, to be afterwards taken out; but you must then use nearly double the quantity of ginger. 716. To Make Currant Jelly. —Take the largest berries you can get; strip them off the stalks; keep back all green ones and the hard red ones at the end of the bunch; then weigh the currants, and take the same weight of single- refined sugar; clarify the sugar, and let it boil to candy, which you will know if, when it boils thick, you take some out in a spoon, and if it hangs in broad flakes it is ready; then throw the currants into the syrup, and let them boil very fast for ten minutes; then pour the jelly through a hair sieve into an earthen pan; stir the cur- rants gently with a spoon, but do not break them, or the pulp will run through and make the jelly thick. While it is passing, clean out the pan it was boiled in ; then return the jelly and warm it on the fire, but do not let it boil again; pot it up, and cover it with oiled paper. This method of making jelly preserves more of the flavour of the fruit than by running it through a bag; and it is not so apt either to candy or become fluid as by the usual way. 717. To make Jelly without Boiling.—Pick the currants care- fully ; squeeze the juice through a linen cloth; to every pint of juice allow a pound of refined sugar; pound, sift, and put in the oven to dry, and get as hot as it can be without melting; add it in this condition to the juice in small quantities at a time. It must be constantly stirred by another person while the sugar is being added; when it is all dissolved the jelly is ready for potting. If it is well made it will keep good three years, and is superior in colour and flavour to other boiled jellies. DIFFERENT METHODS OF MAKING MARMALADE. 718. Smooth Marmalade. — Weigh the oranges, and then take the same weight of white sugar; wipe all the oranges with a wet cloth, and grate the zest off them ; cut the oranges longways in quar- ters, take off the skins, scrape all the white pulp off the inside of the skins, and from the oranges pick the pips out carefully, and put the skins into water in a pan to boil till they are so tender they will beat to a mash; squeeze all the water out of them, and remove all stringy parts before you pound them; then clarify the sugar, and mix the syrup by degrees with the pounded skins, stirring with a spoon as if you were making starch. When it is well mixed put it into the pan, and let it boil till the sugar is incorporated with it; then put in the pulp of the orange and boil till it is smooth and thick. You will know when it is enough done by its becoming more difficult to stir and looking of a finer colour. Pound the grated zest in a mortar ; take off the marmalade and stir it in carefully; then set the pan on the fire again, and let it boil till thoroughly mixed. If you do notPICKLING AND PRESERVING 120 wish it very bitter you may leave out some of the zest, and this you can dry, mix with a little sugar, and pot, for seasoning puddings, creams, eto. 719. Mrs. Bay’s Marmalade- Take Seville oranges, grate them, cut them in two, and squeeze out the juice; remove all the pithy part, and lay them in cold water all night; then boil them in a copper pan till tender; throw them into cold water; take them out, and drain them well; then cut them in small shreds, but re- serve some to pound, which must be done quite to a paste; strain the juice through a sieve, and add it and the grating to the rest; clarify an equal weight of sugar as you have of oranges, and when it is boiled to proof (which you will know by dropping a little into cold water ; if it crackles, then it is ready for you to put in the oranges); boil for half an hour; put it into pots, and let the marmalade be quite cold before you tie them up. Only the outside part of the peel of the orange should be grated in making marmalade. 720. Orange Jelly.—To every pound of oranges two quarts of water; cut the oranges in pieces, remove the pips and core, and put them with the oranges in a pan on the fire; let it boil till the skins are quite soft; then press it through a hair sieve, rubbing it with a spoon till no more will pass. To every pint of this pulp add one pound of sugar; boil it, removing the scum as it rises, till it jellies, which you will know by letting a little cool in a saucer; and it is ready to pot. 721. Chip Marmalade--C^ja- mence as in the foregoing receipt, by weighing the oranges, wiping and grating them ; as the oranges are grated pour boiling water over them, and cover them up till ready to use; take equal weight of sugar; cut the oranges across, and squeeze them through a sieve; boil the skins quite tender; scrape off all stringy parts, and cut them into very thin chips ; set them on with the syrup, and boil them till they are transparent; then put in the juice, and strain the water from the gratings through a sieve into the pan; let all boil together till the juice jellies. Lemon marma- lade may be made in the same way. 722. Marmalade of the Whole Orange. — For every pound of oranges take two pounds of sugar and one quart of water; cut the oranges across, and quarter them ; take out the pips and core, and shoe all down as thin as possible ; to every two pounds of oranges allow the juice of three lemons; mix all together, and boil the whole slowly a full hour; take care the chips do not float, but keep constantly under the syrup. If well made it should look full of jelly. 723. Seville Orange Syrup.— Squeeze the oranges through a fine sieve ; to every pint of juice add a pound and a quarter of fine white sugar, broken into lumps; stir it up all together in a large earthen pan; skim it twice a day till the sugar is all dissolved, which it will not be under nine days ; it must not be made near a fire, and should be kept in a cool place ; then bottle it. It is useful for making orange iDAINTY DISHES 180 jelly or cream, and a tablespoonful in a glass of water makes a very pleasant drink. Lemons may be made in the same way. 724. Sliced Oranges. — Choose Seville oranges with the thickest rind, which are usually those of the middle size ; cut as many thin round shoes from the top, bottom, and sides, as you can till you come to the pulp; throw them into a large basin of spring water, and let them soak two days, then boil them in the same water till they are quite tender; make a syrup with the juice of the oranges and some of the water they have been boiled in, allowing to every pound of liquid and orange-peel included a pound of fine loaf-sugar; then boh them again, taking one-third of the sugar till they look clear, and allow them to he in this thin syrup two days; then strain it off and boil it with the rest of the syrup; skim it weh; put in the slices, and boil them a quarter of an hour; take them out, and pot for use. 725. Orange Biscuits. — Boil Seville oranges in water very gently, changing the water three or four times till the oranges are quite ten- der, and a good deal of the bitterness out of the peels ; then cut them in halves ; scrape out the whole of the inside carefully; weigh the peels, and take twice their weight of fine- pounded loaf-sugar, and beat it up with the oranges in a marble mortar till it becomes a smooth paste; with the back of a spoon spread this paste upon sheets of glass, and set them in a window in the sun to dry; by the next day you may cut the paste into any shaped biscuit you please, and just raise it from the glass; the day after, turn the biscuits, but let them remain on the glass, and as much as possible in the sun, till quite dry. Keep them in boxes with sheets of paper between each layer. Lemon - biscuits may be made in the same way. 726. White Currant Jelly.— Bruise the currants with the back of a wooden spoon, and run the juice through a jelly-bag; to every pint of juice take a pound of double-refined sugar; clarify, and boil it to candy; then put in the currant juice ; boil it ten minutes; skim well, pass through a fine sieve, and pot it. 727. Black Currant Jelly.— Strip three pints of black currants and one of red from their stalks, and put them into a jar with half a pint of water; tie it close over with folds of paper ; set the jar in a pan of water, and boil for twelve hours; taking care none of the water gets into the jar; add more water to that in the pan as it wastes in boiling; turn the cur- rants when boiled on to a sieve, and bruise them well with the back of a spoon, then gather the bruised berries together, and put them into a clean bowl; pour on them a pint of water, and bruise them again; return them to the sieve, and let them drain all night ; add what runs through to the rest of the juice, and for every pint take one pound of sugar, clarified and boiled to candy height; let it boil half an hour; skim as it rises, and pot. 728. Black Currant Syrup — Pick any quantity of black currants you please clean from their stalks;181 PIOKLINQ AND PRESERVING put them into a large earthen jar; cover the jar with a cloth, and put it into a cellar or any damp place to stand for eight days ; they will probably be mouldy on the top; remove this; stir them up well with a large silver spoon; put them on to a hair sieve, and the juice will run through quite clear ; to each pint put one pound of powdered sugar ; boil ten minutes ; let it stand till cold; bottle, cork, and seal it up. This is very good for colds, coughs, etc. 729. To Preserve Cherries for Drying.—Take the best Kentish cherries; remove the stones, and weigh the fruit; allow half a pound of double-refined sugar to each pound of fruit; clarify and boil the sugar to blowing height; put in the fruit; boil a minute or two; then take it off the fire, and let it stand a little ; put the pan on the fire, and let it boil till the fruit looks transparent ; leave the cherries to stand in the syrup four or five days, then lay them on sieves, and dry them on a slow stove; change them on to clean sieves every day till they are dry; put them away in cardboard boxes. 730. Brandy Cherries. — Take fine Morello cherries, cut their stalks short, and put them into a glass jar, with a stick of cinnamon, twelve cloves, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar-candy, and a quart of brandy. N.B.—The glass jar must be quite full. Tie it over with bladder. 731. Greengages in Brandy.— Take greengages preserved accord- ing to the following receipt, put them in a glass jar, fill them up with good French brandy, tie the jar over, and keep a few weeks. Peaches, nectarines, and apricots may be done in the same way. 732. To Preserve Greengages. —Pick the plums when full grown and nearly ripe; let them he in cold water twenty-four hours; lay some vine-leaves in the bottom of a clean brass pan; take the plums out of the water and lay them in the pan, pouring over as much water as will just cover them; strew a pinch of powdered alum over, and set the pan on a clear fire ; when they rise to the top, take them out, and put them into a bowl with a little fresh warm water; clean the pan and lay fresh vine leaves in it; return the fruit to the pan; cover it with boiling-water, and a small pinch more powdered alum ; put a cloth over the pan, and let it stand a quarter of an hour ; then take the plums out of the water, weigh them, and take the same weight of double-refined pounded sugar; put the fruit into a clean pan, strew the pounded sugar over them, add a little water, set the pan on a clear fire, and let it boil slowly till the fruit looks green and transparent. It is then ready to put into pots ; boil the syrup, how- ever, a little longer, and let it get cold, when you may pour it over the greengages and let them stand two or three days; then pour off the syrup, and boil it up again with more sugar till it is thick and smooth ; pour it over the fruit, and close up the pots. 733. Crystallized Fruits may also be made, when preserved, by first draining them thoroughly from the syrup ; cover them with clari- fied sugar; boil a minute or two; drain them on sieves, placing them so that they cannot touch each182 DAINTY DISHES other ; dost them over with coarsely - powdered sugar; when dry on one side, then powder the other ; repeat this, and when quite dry put them away in boxes. 734. To Preserve Apricots.— Choose ripe apricots; take the stone out at one end, so that they may look whole ; prick them all over with the point of a knife, and lay them in a shallow stew-pan, taking care they do not touch each other; add a little clarified sugar to them, but not enough to cover them; let them boil gently up; take the pan off, and when the apricots are cold turn them in the pan, and boil them up again; re- peat this twice more, taking care to let them get cold between each turning. When they have, after the last boil-up, stood twelve hours, drain them ; put into each a kernel which you have previously blanched, dust them over with pounded sugar, lay them on tins, and put them into a cool oyen to dry. Next day turn them on a sieve, let them get perfectly dry and hard, and put them away in boxes with paper between. Peaches and nectarines may be done in the same way. 735. Apricot Jam.—Stone and peel the apricots; take equal weight of sugar and fruit; clarify and boil the sugar to candy; put in the apricots, and let them boil very quick till they are well broke, and bruise them a little with a spoon; blanch the kernels and add them. A little white currant jelly boiled with the apricots is also an improvement. Take the pan off, and when the jam is cool, pot and tie it down. Greengages and other plums may be made into jam in the same way. 736. Comp6te d’Abricots.— Take apricots nearly ripe; remove the stones without breaking them ; put them in a pan of water on the fire, but do not let them boil; for every twenty-five apricots take a pound of sugar; clarify it, and put in the apricots ; set them on a very slow fire, that the sugar may in- corporate ; when quite tender, they are done. If they are to be pre- served for future use, drain them, boil the syrup next day, and pour it, when cold, over the fruit; con- tinue doing this for five days, adding each time a little more sugar, as it is necessary the fruit should be quite covered with the syrup. On the last day put the apricots into the boiling sugar, and give them a gentle boil; skim them well; and peaches and quinces may be done in the same way, either for present use or to keep a year. 737. Apricot Paste—Take any quantity of perfectly ripe apricots you choose; take out the stones ; put them in a pan of water on the fire to boil till they break; drain and rub them through a sieve; dry and weigh the paste ; take as much clarified sugar as fruit; mix well together; put it again on the fire to boil; it must be more done than for marmalade; then put the paste into moulds, or make it into thin flat cakes, and dry them in the oven or stove; paper each one, and put them by in boxes. 738. Pineapple Jelly. — Boil two dozen of the best common apples as for apple-jelly; pass them through a jelly-bag, and to every two quarts of juice add the juice of183 PICKLING AND PRESERVING a fine pineapple, which you extract by cutting it into slices, and laying it for two days in fine pounded sugar; add this to the apple juice, clarify, and boil three pints of syrup to a crack; boil the refuse of the pineapple and the juice ten minutes; pass through a jelly bag, and pot. 739. Pineapple Jam.—Pare, cut in slices, and pound a pineapple to a pulp; to a pint of pulp put a pound of sifted sugar; boil it twenty-five minutes, and pot. 740. Pineapple Marmalade.— Pare the pineapple, then cut it round and round in small thin shreds or strips like orange marma- lade ; to each pound of fruit the same weight of fine sugar; boil till jellied. If there is not enough juice in the pineapple, add either lemon or apple juice. 741. Pineapples in Slices. — Pare off the outside, and cut the pineapple in slices half an inch thick; put a layer of fruit and a layer of sugar alternately in an earthen pan; let it remain on the stove three or four days, then put it into a preserving-pan with the juice of four lemons, and boil for ten minutes, skimming it well; next day boil it again for ten minutes, and put it up. Or the slices may be drained from the syrup, powdered with sugar, and dried in the oven; the syrup being kept to flavour jellies, creams, etc. 742. Apple Jelly. — Pare and core six pounds of green codlings or any juicy apples; cut them in pieces, and add a quart of water to them; boil them gently till quite mashed, stirring all the time ; put this through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of this juice add three pints of clarified syrup; boil the sugar to a crack, add the apple juice, and boil together ten minutes. Care must be taken not to boil it too much, or it becomes like treacle. Any sort of fruit may be added to this jelly, boiling the fruit whole in it, and putting it into pots while hot—such as strawberries, rasp- berries, cherries, etc. 743. Strawberries Whole. — Take two quarts of clarified syrup, boil to a strong blow, put eight pounds of fine large strawberries in it, and boil them up gently, taking care they do not break. Repeat this boiling three times, letting them stand a quarter of an hour to cool between each. Now add two quarts of apple jelly made as above; boil it up three times more, and put it hot into glasses or pots. 744. Raspberry Jam.—Pick and clean the raspberries well, and to every pound add a pint of red- currant juice and a pound and a half of lump sugar ; pound it and put it into a pan alternately with the fruit; let it stand some time before you set it on the fire, that the sugar may soften; boil over a quick fire, and when the fruit falls to the bottom it is done enough. 745. Gooseberry Jam. — Take the same weight of pounded sugar as of gooseberries, stewing the sugar over them as you put them in the pan; pour half a pint of water over them, and set them on a slow fire to boil gently a few minutes; skim as clear as you can; then put them on a hotter fire, and boil till they look quite clear, and will jelly (about twenty minutes). They are then ready to pot.DAINTY DISHES 184 746. Gooseberry Jelly.—Fill a Btone jar with ripe gooseberries ; cover the top close up with paper ; set the jar in water, and boil till the gooseberries are quite tender; then pass them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice add a pound of single-refined sugar, clarified ; put in the juice, and boil till it jellies, which you will easily know by letting a little cool in a saucer. Green gooseberry jelly, from un- ripe gooseberries, may be made in the same way. 747. Gooseberry Cheese. — Mash two quarts of ripe red or green gooseberries, add a pound of fine-sifted sugar to them, and let them stand all night; next day boil it up; rub the gooseberries through a sieve, and boil the pulp, stirring it all the time over a gentle fire for twenty-five minutes; put it in moulds or pots. Cheese of apricots, peaches, or plums may be made in the same way. 748. Gooseberry - Biscuits.— Gather the fruit when full grown, but not ripe ; put them into a jar and set them to boil in a kettle of water till they become soft; rub through a sieve. To every pound of pulp add a pound of loaf-sugar; stir it till the sugar is dissolved over the fire; then pour it into shallow dishes to dry in the sun or in a cool oven. When it begins to candy, you may cut them into any form you please. Turn them every day till they become dry and hard; keep in tin boxes in a dry place. Barberries, apricots, lemons, etc., to be done the same way. Cookery for tbe 749. Rumford Soup. — Take double the quantity of water you want to have soup; one pound of split peas, three carrots and turnips, or more if they are not large, and put it overnight to simmer by a slow fire ; strain it next morning; add a quarter of a pound of rice, pepper, salt, celery, and any other vegetables you may have. Let them simmer on a slow fire till tender. 750. Soup for the Poor.—One pound of beef, a quarter of a pound of rice or barley, two onions, five turnips, pepper, and salt; put all together into a gallon of water; when it has boiled for an hour, take out the beef and cut it in Sick ant> poor. small pieces; add some potatoes, and boil an hour longer. It may also be thickened with meal, which makes it more nourishing. 751. A Nourishing Soup for the Poor. — Take the liquor in which meat has been boiled the day before, with the bones of leg and shin of beef, and add as much water as will make thirty gallons ; add also two ox heads, the meat of ten stone of leg and shin of beef, all cut in pieces; two bunches of carrots, four of turnips, two of leeks, half a peck of onions, a bunch of celery, half a pound of pepper, and some salt; boil ten hours, and thicken it with either barley or oatmeal. This can, of course, b*185 COOKERY FOR TEE SICK AND POOR made in smaller quantities. The estimated cost of the thirty gallons of soup, when the receipt was given to me, was as follows : s. d. 10 Stone leg and shin of beef 11 8 2 Ox heads. . . .40 2 Bunches carrots . .06 4 Bunches turnips . .08 2 Bunches leeks. . .04 £ Peck onions . . .08 1 Bunch celery . . .06 £ Pound pepper . . .18 20 0 752. Sago Milk for the Poor. —Put a teacupful of sago into a quart of water, with a bit of lemon- peel ; when thickened, add some grated ginger, half a pint of raisin or port wine, brown sugar, and two spoonfuls of geneva; boil all up together. To be given in cases of great weakness. 753. An Excellent Soup for the Poor.—Put two cow-heels and a breast of mutton into a large pan, with four ounoes of rice, an onion, a turnip, a carrot; twenty Jamaica and twenty black peppercorns, and a little salt; pour on it four gallons of water ; cover the pan with brown paper, and bake in the oven six hours. 754. Stew for the Poor.—Take a pound and a quarter of fat mutton; cut it into pieces; add nine potatoes, two turnips, eight onions, half a gill of split peas, and a little celery-seed; cut all the vegetables up small; season with salt and pepper, and pour five quarts of water on the whole ; let it simmer two hours and a half on a slow fire. The whole expenses will not exceed Is. 6d., and it will feed more than five persons. 755. Pea-Soup.—One pound of split peas, one teaspoonful of celery-seed, a large onion, some ground and whole pepper, salt, and a beef bone or two, either raw or cooked; boil the whole together slowly two or three hours ; strain it, and set it on to boil again slowly for a short time. Potato-soup may be made in the same way, but do not strain, and leave out the celery-seed. 756. Beef-Tea. — Cut three pounds of beef into pieces the size of a walnut, and if there are any bones chop them up also ; put it into a saucepan with some vege- tables, such as carrots, turnips, celery, an onion, or some leeks, etc., half an ounce of salt and some pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a pint of water; set it on a sharp fire for ten minutes, stirring it now and thon with a spoon. It should form a thick, but not brown, gravy at the bottom. Then add six pints of hot water ; set it on a sharp fire, and when it boils take it off and set it by the side to simmer for three hours, skim off all the fat, strain it through a sieve, and it is ready to serve. This is very good to drink cold during the night for invalids ; but, when made for this purpose, the onion should be left out. This receipt makes about six pints. 757. Beef-Tea.—Cut a pound of lean meat into thin slices ; put it into a pan with one pint and a half of cold water; set it over a slow fire, to become gradually warm, after the scum rises, which you should remove ; let it continue gently simmering two hours, then strain through a fine sieve; let it136 DAINTY DISHES stand ten minutes to settle, and pour off the clear tea ; a little salt and a few grains of black pepper should be added, and a little celery seed and a whole carrot boiled in it improves the flavour. Yeal or mutton tea may be made in the same way. 758. Calves’-Feet Broth.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, a blade or two of mace, and a little salt, in three quarts of water till it comes to three pints; strain, and carefully remove all the fat. 759. A very Nourishing Veal Broth.—Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with but little meat on it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton well soaked and crushed, three blades of mace, ten peppercorns, an onion, and a large piece of bread, with three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close ; let it boil up, skim it, and then let it simmer four hours as gently as possible; strain it, remove the fat, and it is ready to serve. 760. Chicken-Tea. — Skin and divide the chicken in pieces, leav- ing out the back; put in some clear water, with a blade of mace, a few white peppercorns, and an onion sliced; simmer till it is sufficiently strong, then strain, and when cold carefully remove all the fat. It may be drunk cold or heated again. 761. Very Strengthening Chicken-Broth. — Cut down and bruise two or three cock chickens ; put them in a saucepan with three quarts of water ; simmer till the juice is entirely drawn frofia them; press it well out, strain, and return the soup to the saucepan; add salt, whole pepper, rice, or vermicelli; a whole chicken may be boiled in the soup, and served so in it. In spring, young vegetables, parsley, and chervil may be added. 762. Stewed Partridges.—Half stew one or two partridges; cut them up, take out the largest bones, put them in a pan with the liquor they were stewed in, with a little salt, a blade of mace, and a bit of lemon-peel; when done, serve with the gravy in the dish. All sorts of poultry and game are light and nourishing done in the same way. 763. Restorative Jelly for the Poor.—Take a neat’s foot cleaned and prepared, two ounces of harts- horn shavings, two quarts of milk, and two quarts of water; bake for several hours in a slow oven, strain it, and when cold remove the fat; warm it a little and sweeten it; a cupful to be taken as often as liked. In summer it is best to omit the milk in making it, and add a little when used. 764. Strengthening Jelly. — Bake four calves’ feet in two quarts of water, and the same of new milk, in a close covered jar four hours. When cold, remove the fat; it may be flavoured with lemon-peel, cinnamon, mace, etc., and sweetened to taste. Give a glassful the first and last thing. 765. Another. — Boil half an ounce of fine isinglass with a quart of new milk, till reduced to a pint; add some sugar and two or three bitter almonds, pounded. Drink this at bedtime; it is good for a cough.COOKERY FOR THE SIGK AND POOR 137 766. Nourishing Jelly.—Sim- mer six sheep’s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon- peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water till it is reduced to one; when cold, remove the fat. Give half a pint twice a-day, warming it with a little new milk. 767. Strengthening Jellies.— Boil cow-heel down to a strong jelly ; take equal parts of the jelly and white wine; flavour with lemon-juice, zest, and sugar, and to each pint add three fresh yolks of eggs; beat it well; heat it over a stove, stirring constantly; pour it out, continue stirring till cold, and put it into cups. Two ounces of isinglass dissolved in a pint of water; add a glass of white wine, the juice and peel of two lemons, and sugar enough to sweeten ; beat the yolks of six very fresh eggs, and add them; thicken it over the fire, stirring all the time; pour it into a basin, and stir till cold. 768. To make Cake Jelly to Keep.—Take nine or a dozen gang or set of calves’ feet, scald them well, slit them up, and lay them to soak in warm water for several hours. Put them on in a large pot, with water enough to cover them; when they are boiled enough for the bones to come out, remove them, and return the meat to the pot, and let it boil slowly till all the substance is out of it; strain it through a hair sieve into an earthen vessel that will hold it; while it is warm, skim all the fat you can from it; let it stand all night; and if there is any more fat, remove it carefully; when you take it out of the vessel, cut the sediment from the bottom of it, then put the jelly into a clean brass pan, and set it on a moderate fire. It must boil till it is very thick, and appears almost black in the pan ; then pom it out as thin as you can on stone plates. When it is cool, take it from the plates and lay it at a distance from the fire to dry gradu- ally. When it is quite dry, and looks clear and hard like horn, put it by in tin boxes to keep for use. 769. Hartshorn Jelly. — Put half a pound of hartshorn shavings into three quarts of water; boil to a quart; then add an ounce of the strained juice of Seville oranges or lemons, four ounces of Malaga wine, and half a pound of fine sugar; boil down to a consistence fit to drink when warm, or jelly when cold. 770. Iceland-Moss Jelly.—Boil three-quarters of an ounce of Ice- land moss (unwashed) in a pint and a half of water until only a pint remains; add the juice of a Seville orange, and take a wine- glassful two or three times a day. (Very nourishing and good in con- sumptive cases.) 771. —Ivory-Dust Jelly.—Boil one pound of ivory-dust in three quarts of water for eight hours. It will require no skimming. When done strain through a jelly - bag. This may be flavoured in various ways with wine or lemon and sugar ; but it is very strengthening, and its principal use is, that, having no taste, it may be mixed in tea or coffee or other fluids, and given without the patient’s detecting it. 772. Gloucester Jelly.—Barley, sago, rice, and eringo root, of each138 DAINTY DISHES one ounce; boil them in a quart of water till reduoed to a pint; then pass it through a sieve. A teacup- ful, with a little milk, to be taken night and morning; or it may be dissolved in beef-tea, wine, etc. 773. Pork Soup or Jelly —Out up and break the bone of a leg of pork ; simmer it gently in three gallons of water till reduced to one; add salt and pepper, and let half an ounce of nutmeg or other spice stew in it; and strain it. This may either be taken as soup, a cupful three times a day, or eaten cold as jelly, and is extremely nourishing. 774. Veal Soup or Jelly.—Shoe a pound of veal very thin; put it into a closely-covered jar or other vessel in alternate layers, with sliced turnips; add one teacupful of water and a little salt; place in a pan of water, and simmer gently four hours; or it may be done for the same time in the oven ; strain it, and when cold it will be a strong jelly, and is equally good and nutritious eaten so, or warmed into soup. 775. Fowl Soup or Jelly.—Skin and cut in pieces an old fowl; break the bones; put in a covered earthen pan with a cup of water; simmer seven hours either in a oain marie or the oven; season to taste, and strain it. To be eaten either hot, or cold as jelly. 776. Partridge or Pheasant Soup or Jelly.—Skin and out in pieces two large old partridges or one pheasant; fry it with a small quantity of butter or fat bacon, together with an onion or two, some celery, and a little salt. When quite done, pour three quarts of boiling water on it, and put it in a close-covered vessel, which place either in the oven or in a pan of water on the fire to simmer slowly three hours; then strain off the soup. 777. Bread-Berry.—Pour boil- ing water over thin slices of bread in a bowl, as much as will make it thick or thin as you wish; sweeten it with brown sugar, and add a little cinnamon water. 778. Bread Panada.—Set some water on the fire, about a tumbler- ful, with a glass of sherry, some loaf-sugar, and a little grated nut- meg and lemon-peel. Have some grated crumbs of bread ready, and the moment the water boils put them in without taking the pan off the fire. Let it boil as fast as possible. When sufficiently thick just to drink it is ready for use. 779. Chicken Panada.—Skin a chicken, and boil it in a quart of water till about three-parts ready; let it stand till cold, then cut all the white meat off; put it into a mortar and pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in; season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a small piece of lemon-peel; boil gently a few minutes to the consistency you like. It should be tolerably thick, but such as you can drink if you please. Barley or rice may be boiled to a pulp, passed through a tammy, and added to it, which makes it more nourishing. The panada can also be made with partridge or pheasant in the same way. It is very nutritious and easy of digestion. 780. Caudle. —Put two spoon- fuls of oatmeal into a quart ofCOOKERY FOR THE SICK AND POOR 139 water, with a little mace and lemon-peel, stir it often, and let it boil half an hour; strain it; add some sugar and nutmeg, and a large glass of white wine. Brown caudle is prepared as above, but after straining you add a pint of good mild ale, and flavour with brandy and sugar. 781. Grit Gruel. — Well wash half a pint of split grits, boil them in three pints of water till rather thick and smooth, stirring it fre- quently ; strain through a hair sieve, and add either sugar or salt to taste. 782. Oatmeal Gruel. — If for thick gruel, mix well together in a basin two tablespoonfuls of oat- meal with three of water; if for thin gruel, only one with the same quantity of water; have ready in a stew-pan a pint of boiling water or milk; pour this by degrees to the oatmeal you have mixed, and then return the whole to the sauce- pan, set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes, stirring it all the time; then strain it through a hair sieve, and it is ready for use. If wished more nourishing, it may be made with broth instead of water or milk. 783. To make Arrowroot.— For one cupful take a teaspoonful of the best arrowroot, and miv it by degrees with cold water till it is quite smooth, but so stiff that the spoon will only just turn round in it; have ready a kettle of quite boiling water, and fill the cup up, pouring at first slowly and then more rapidly, and stirring all the time in the same proportion. The result should be a perfectly clear jelly, to which you may add a table- spoonful of brandy or sherry, or flavour it with lemon, and sweeten with sugar to taste. It is much better made in this way than boiled. 784. Porridge.—Fill a pan with water, and while it is boiling add a little meal and as much salt as you think will be necessary to season the porridge ; then take the porridge-stick (a round stick like a thin rolling-pin) in the right hand and the oatmeal in the left, and when the water begins to rise shake in the meal with one hand and stir with the other quickly, but adding the meal by degrees ; continue putting it in till it is thiok enough not to fly over when stirred; continue to boil it for some time, well beating it with the porridge-stick. It may be made thinner or thicker according to taste. Barley-meal porridge is made in the same way, and should be served in a soup plate, which is better than a wooden bowl, in which oatmeal porridge is best. They are both eaten with milk and cream, or ale and brown sugar. Nothing is so wholesome and nourishing for children. 785. Furmity.—Boil wheat till it oomes to a jelly, and to a quart of this add by degrees two quarts of new milk ; stir and boil till well mixed; beat the yolks of three eggs, with a little nutmeg, and sugar to sweeten it to taste; stir this well in over the fire; pour it into deep dishes, and eat either hot or cold. 786. Flummery. — Put three handfuls of fine white oatmeal to steep a day and a night in cold water; then pour the water off clear, and add as much more water; let it again stand the same time;140 DAINTY DISHES then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it all the time; add to it, while boiling, a spoonful of sugar and two of orange- flower water. When ready, pour it into shallow dishes. Wine, milk, or cream are eaten with it. 787. Dutch Flummery.—Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint and a half of water very gently for half an hour ; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons, and the rind of one cut very thin ; rub a few lumps of sugar or an- other lemon to obtain the essence; add as much of this sugar as will sweeten it sufficiently; beat the yolks of seven eggs, add and mix into the above, and give the whole one scald, stirring all the time; pour it into a basin, and stir till cold; let it settle, and put it into cups, or any shape. This is very strengthening. 788. Rice Flummery. — Boil with a pint of new milk a bit of lemon - peel and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk, rice-flour enough to make it rather thick; add to the hot milk, and boil it till it is smooth and of good consis- tency, taking care it does not burn; then pour it into a basin; when cold, turn it on to a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard. 789. Barley Gruel.—Wash four ounces of pearl barley; boil it into two quarts of water, with a bit of cinnamon, till it is reduced to one quart; strain, and return it to the saucepan, with a little sugar and three-quarters of a pint of port wine ; make it quite hot, and it is ready to be used as wanted. It is very strengthening. 790. Ground-Rice Milk.—Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with a pint and a half of milk, a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and sugar to taste ; add the sugar only when nearly done. It should be thick and smooth. 791. Thick Barley-Water.— Wash a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, and boil it in a gallon of water till it is quite soft, smooth, and white ; then strain, and flavour with lemon-juice, and sweeten with a little syrup. Some people con- sider barley - water made with common barley as preferable to pearl barley. It should be well washed, and allowed to simmer slowly, with a little lemon-peel, in water, and when thick enough, strained. 792. Clear Barley - Water.— Wash a large cupful of pearl barley twice in cold and once in warm water, throwing away the water; then put the barley into a jug holding about two pints, with the peel of a lemon cut very thin and a small piece of sugar; pour quite boiling water over this, cover it close, and let it stand till cold; do not strain, but pour it off clear. 793. Toast and Water.—Cut a crust off a loaf of stale bread, about twice the thickness toast is usually cut; toast it carefully till it is hard and brown all over, but not at all blackened or burnt; put this into a jug, and pour over it what quantity of water you require, boiling hot; cover the jug close, and let it stand till cold. The fresher it is made the better, as it is apt to turn sour. 794. Oatmeal Water is made in the same way as toast and water.COOKERY FOR TEE SICK AND POOR 141 The oatmeal may be browned in the oven or before the fire ; boiling water is then poured over it as above. It is very useful in stop- ping sickness. 795. Orgeat of Montpellier — Take one pound of barley ; wash it and soak it in water; separate the grains well; tie it up in a piece of muslin, put it in a pot with a quart of water, and set it on the fire to boil gently four hours. Then put into the water one pound of sweet almonds, without their skins; boil a few minutes ; then take out the barley and almonds ; pound them together in a mortar; mix well with the water ; strain all together through a piece of linen; pound again the residue; pour the water over; stir, and repeat the straining. This water should now look very thick. Add a pound of pounded lump sugar, and boil to a syrup. You will know that the syrup is done by dropping some on to a plate, and it remains like paste. Then take it off the fire, and flavour it with fleur d’orange, or anything else you please. Bottle and keep it for use. To make the drink, put into the bottom of a decanter one ounce of syrup, pour fresh water over it, shake to mix it well, and it is ready to drink immediately. 796. Fresh Orgeat or Almond- Milk.—Blanch and pound four winces of sweet almonds and four t/itter almonds ; when pounded very fine, add one quart of water, t»' spoonful of syrup, or some pounded sugar, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water. This latter may be omitted, and it may be made with milk instead of water. It is very good for a cough, and very serviceable in many inflam- matory attacks. 797. Raspberry Water to Drink.—Mash one pint of rasp- berries in the juice of two lemons, a pint of water, and as much syrup as will sweeten it to taste; strain through a lawn sieve. Strawberry, cherry, and mulberry water may be made in the same way. It is a very refreshing drink when feverish, or in hot weather. 798. Lemon Cup.—The peel of a lemon added to an ounce of clarified sugar and a pint of quite boiling water ; when quite cold add the juice of a lemon and a glass of white wine. 799. Lemonade.—To a dozen of lemons add two quarts of water, two pounds of sugar, a pint and a half of any kind of white wine, and a pint of milk ; peel all the lemons, and pour the water boiling on the peel; let it stand till nearly cold, then squeeze in the juice, and add the sugar and wine, and the milk, which must be boiling; let it stand a few minutes, and pour it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear. 800. Apple Water—Peel and slice some sharp apples; add a little sugar and lemon-peel, then pour over it boiling water. Let it stand in a covered jug by the fire for two hours, when it is fit for use. It may be drunk cold or hot, and is very refreshing iced. Another way of making ic is to out six apples in pieces, leaving the skins on; pour over them a quart of boiling water; let it stand an hour, and add two ounces of honey, and the juice of two lemons. 801. Rhubarb Water.—Boil six clean-washed stalks of rhubarb ten142 DAINTY DISHES minutes in a quart of water ; strain the liquor through a tammy into a jug; add the peel of a lemon cut very thin and one tablespoonful of clarified sugar ; let it stand five or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 802. Drink for a Fever.—Boil three ounces of currants, two ounces of raisins carefully stoned, and an ounce and a half of tama- rinds, in three pints of water till it is reduced to a quart; strain it; add a piece of lemon-peel, and let it stand an hour, when it is fit for use. 803. Imperial Drink. — Pour two quarts of boiling water upon an ounce of cream-of-tartar and the peel of half a lemon; let it stand till quite cold; then pour it off, and sweeten to taste. If liked, the juice of the lemon may be added. 804. Lemon Whey. — Boil a quart of milk and water (a pint of each); add to it the juice of two lemons ; let it simmer five minutes, then strain it off, and add a little sugar. This is an excellent drink for a cold. 805. White Wine Whey.—Put a pint of new milk on the fire; when it boils up pour in a glassful of wine—sherry or madeira; if one glassful is not enough, add more—it must be enough com- pletely to turn the milk ; let it boil up once, and set it aside till the ourd subsides; pour the whey gently off, add a little boiling water, and sugar to taste. 806. An excellent Drink for a Cough.—Beat up two eggs with half a pint of milk, warmed, two tablespoonfuls of capillaire, and the same of rose-water. It must not be warmed after the egg is added, or it will curdle. 807. Linseed Drink.—Pour over a teaspoonful of linseed, or more if required thicker for a oough, a quart of boiling water; the whole or half the peel of a lemon and two or three pieces of sugar-candy are to be added, and the whole left to stand in a oovered jug till cold. 808. Clarified Milk Whey.— To six pints of milk add enough rennet to turn it; leave it to make in a warm place; press out the whey, and strain; clarify it by adding the whites of three eggs, and half a drachm of cream-of- tartar; boil, and filter through paper. 809. Brandy Mixture.—A gill of brandy, the same quantity of cinnamon water, beaten up with the yolks of two eggs and half an ounce of pounded sugar. This is a valuable restorative in cases of extreme exhaustion. A table- spoonful or two should be given at intervals of from ten to fifteen minutes. 810. Egg Cordial.—A table- spoonful of cream, the white of a very fresh egg, and a tablespoon- ful of brandy; whip first the egg nearly to a froth, then the cream with the egg; add the brandy by degrees, and mix well; do not let it stand after it is made. This is very nourishing, and so fight, it will remain in the stomach when nothing else will. The receipt was given to me by the late Professor Miller, of Edinburgh. 811. For a Weak Digestion.— Beat up in a basin a fresh-laid egg, add six tablespoonfuls of cold water, then two of potato-flour; mix it thoroughly with the water143 COOKERY POR THE SICK AND POOR and egg, and pour as muoh boil- ing water over it as will make into a jelly, stirring it well. Useful in all oases of stomachic debility. 812. Cordial for the Weak.— A pint of wine to a quart of barley- gruel ; boil to a third ; add lemon- peel or other seasoning. A teaoupful several times a day is strengthening. 813. Cordial for an Invalid.— Half a pint of best French brandy, boiled with as much brown sugar as the brandy will imbibe, till about the consistency of treacle. Taken frequently in small quantities, this has been found of the greatest use to consumptive persons. 814. Cocoa is a refreshing, in- vigorating drink, also a nutritious food. It can be mixed with milk or water. Directions for mixing are to be found with every packet when purchased. 815. Custard without Eggs.— Take two ounces (or else 11 or 12 lumps) of sugar and one packet custard powder. Out of a pint of new milk or cream take just suffi- cient to make the powder into a thin smooth paste when well mixed in a basin ; then boil the remainder of the milk or cream with the sugar, and while still boiling pour it all at once into the basin. Give the whole two or three stirs, and when quite cold, fill the custard glasses. 816. Gruel.—Take of patent groats one tablespoonful, mix with a wineglassful of cold water, gradually added, into a smooth paste, pour this into a stew-pan containing nearly a pint of boiling water or milk, stir the gruel on the fire (while it boils) for ten minutes ; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter, or if more agreeable, some sugar, and small quantity of spirits. When for an invalid, butter had best be omitted. 817. Barley Water for Inva- lids.—Take of Patent Barley an ounce, mix with a wineglassful of cold water into a smooth paste, pour this into a stew-pan con- taining a quart of boiling water, stir this over the fire while boiling for five minutes; then flavour with a small bit of lemon-peel or cinnamon, and sweeten to taste. When the patent barley is used to make a summer beverage, only half an ounce must be taken. 818. Scones.—Take one pound of ordinary flour, two teaspoon- fuls of baking powder, a small teaspoonful of salt, about a break- fast-cupful of sweet milk; mix the flour, baking powder, and salt well together in a bowl, dry. Make into a dough quickly with milk, adding the milk a little at a time till you have a moderately still dough. Do not knead more than is necessary. Roll out flat on a floured board till about half an inch thick, and out into circles or three-cornered pieces. Put at once into the oven or on the griddle or hot plate sprinkled with flour. Bake quickly. Delicious little din- ner loaves can be made with above mixture, using a little more milk to make a soft dough, and baking in small round buttered tins.—To make a richer scone add two ounces butter and one ounoe sugar.PAPER-BAG COOKERY CASSEROLE COOKERY SAVOURIES AND SUNDRIES BY MISS HELEN EDDEN, M.C.A. Klpapcr=»ag Goofier?. ‘EN PAPILLOTES.’ 819. Dried Haddock—Trim the haddock and place it in a well- greased bag using either good salad oil or butter, add two tablespoon- fuls of milk, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and three or four small tomatoes, Fasten the end and cook on a perforated grid or shelf in a hot oven for about twelve minutes. Dish up and serve with the tomatoes arranged down the centre, and a sprinkling of chopped parsley. 820. Filleted Plaice.—Prepare the fillets oarefully, season with a little salt and pepper, and sprinkle over a little lemon juice. Roll up each fillet with the skin inwards. Put some butter on the top of each and place the fillets side by side in a buttered paper bag. Bake for about ten minutes. There will be a little essence of the fish in the bag. Use this in making the sauce to cover the fillets, which will give it an excellent flavour. 821. Bloaters. — Cut off the heads and clean them thoroughly, place them side by side in a well- buttered paper bag, fasten the end securely and bake for about ten minutes. 822. Mackerel.—Cut off the head, wash and dry the fish and out it open down the backbone, which remove, then brush over with some butter, season with pepper and salt, adding a pinch of mixed herbs sprinkled over with a little finely- chopped shallot, just a soupgon. Slip the fish into a well-buttered bag and bake for about half an hour. Dish up and serve. 823. Stuffed Haddock.—Stuff the fish with a veal stuffing omitting the suet, sew it up and then truss it in the shape of the letter S. Brush it over with egg and raspings, bake this in a well-buttered paper bag for about half an hour. Serve with anchovy sauce. 824. Dried Kippers.—Remove the backbone, then spread over a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, a little onion, pepper and mustard. Put small pieces of butter on the top and bake for about ten minutes in a buttered paper bag. 825. Red Mullet. — Take a paper bag and well oil or butter it, place the mullet inside, adding a piece of butter, a glass of sherry and a few drops of anchovy or other fish sauce, a squeeze of lemon juice, cayenne and salt, with a very tiny piece of shallot. Bake slowly for about twenty minutes. Be careful that the bags are well secured when liquid is put in: it is a good plan to fold both ends. 826. Dressed Turbot.—Take a small turbot and just raise the fillets on the white side, cutting down the centre and slipping the knife under. Then stuff the fish148 DAINTY DISHES with a quarter of a pint of picked Bhrimps or prawns mixed with breadcrumbs, parsley, salt and pepper, one egg and some cream. Brush the fish over with butter and sprinkle a little lemon juice over, garnish with prawns down the centre. Bake slowly in a buttered paper bag for about half an hour. Serve with cut lemon and garnish with endive, 827. Salmon au Parmesan.— One or more salmon steaks, butter these and bake in a paper bag for a quarter of an hour. Then care- fully cut the paper open and cover the salmon with grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt, with a sprinkle of raspings on the top. Return to the oven for five or six minutes. Dish and serve with a garnish of ououmber arranged in thin sliees. 828. Salmon Piquante.—One salmon steak dipped in salad oil; cover both sides with this mixture: a finely-chopped pickled gherkin and onion, one anchovy, cayenne and salt. Place the fish in a well- oiled bag and bake slowly for twenty to thirty minutes according to the thickness of the steak. Trim the bag and serve the fish in it. 829. Kidneys and Mushrooms. —Skin the kidneys and cut them in halves, peel the mushrooms, put them in a buttered paper bag with about two ounces of butter, a dash of cayenne, salt. Bake very slowly for twenty minutes. Dish and serve with the liquor formed in the bag. 830. Beef Olives.—Some thin slices of raw beef taken from the undercut of the sirloin, lay a thin slice of bacon on each and then a layer of veal stuffing. Roll each fillet up and tie it. Place these in a greased bag, add one quarter of a pint of good stock, with some finely-chopped mushroom, carrot and turnip. Bake for about forty minutes. Dish up and serve with some good brown sauce to which has been added the stock from the bag. 831. Stewed Kidneys.—Cut an ox kidney up in pieces the size of a walnut, or use sheep’s kidneys cut into four pieces, about two ounces of bacon finely chopped, a small wine- glass of sherry, a squeeze of lemon juice, one quarter of a pint of good stock, pepper and salt. Roll the pieces of kidney in flour and put all into a buttered paper bag. Bake slowly for half an hour. Dish and serve. Note.—It is essential that all paper bags should be well oiled or buttered, firmly secured with clips and laid on a perforated shelf or grid to bake in the oven, having the joined edge of the paper upper- most. This is most important, otherwise the bag may leak. Casserole 832. Chicken a l’Espagnole — Cut up a couple of chickens into neat joints, have ready some shalots, truffle and mushrooms prepared Cookery and cut up small. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in the casserole, and when hot fry the vegetables, chicken pieces and a bouquet garniCASSEROLE COOKERY 149 for a few minutes to extract the flavour from the vegetables and to seal up the juices from the chickens. Then add one pint of Espagnol sauce with half a pint of tomato sauce, a quarter of a pint of sherry, a little pepper and salt, and a small piece of glaze. Place the lid on and put into a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Dish the chicken piled high on an entree dish, slrim the sauce and strain it over, garnishing with a little watercress. 833. Curried Chickens.—Cut the chickens up as for a fricassee and trim the pieces neatly. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in the casserole, and when hot, fry some sliced onions, shalot and apples, about equal quantities, then add two tablespoonfuls of good curry powder, two blades of mace and a little salt. Then add the pieces of chicken and a pint of good white stock, half a pint of cream, and when boiling, two tablespoonfuls of chutney. Let all cook slowly in the oven with the lid on for one hour and a half. Just before serving squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Skim and dish in the casserole, serving some boiled rice separately. 834. Salmi of Ducks.—Cut the ducks into neat joints and fry brown in the casserole in a quarter of a pint of good olive oil. Then drain away the oil, and put in about a pint of good brown sauce, two anchovies, one quarter of a pint of port, a little seasoning to taste, and the juice of one lemon. Let it cook very gently in the oven for an hour and three-quarters. Dish up and serve in the casserole, garnish with a little lemon. 835. Jugged Hare.—Take a good-sized casserole and put first of all in it, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of fat bacon very finely minced, and two pounds of steak cut into small chunks. Place the pieces of hare on the steak—no water or stock is to be added. Cook this very slowly on the top of the kitchener for four hours at the very least. Take out the pieces of hare, and proceed to thicken the gravy with about six ounces of flour, one wine-glassful of vinegar and one of port, and the same of mushroom ketchup, a little pepper and salt to taste and a little caramel to darken it. Let this sauce boil for fifteen minutes, then return the pieces of hare. Serve in smaller casseroles or entree dishes and garnish with forcemeat balls. Hand red-currant jelly. This is an excellent recipe for jugged hare. 836. Partridges en Casserole. —Truss the partridges, cut them in half and fry them in olive oil for five minutes in the casserole, four or five tablespoonfuls would do. Then add some tiny button onions, two slices of bacon finely chopped, two bay leaves, half a pint of good brown stock, a small wineglassful of port and the same of vinegar, about eight peppercorns and a Tittle salt. Cover the casserole firmly with the lid, and cook gently in the oven for one hour if young birds : old birds would require two hours or more. Dish the birds and serve; they may be served in the casserole if preferred. 837. Haricot Mutton. — The best end of a neck of mutton cut into neat pieces, fry these in a casserole with a quarter of a pound of butter, then dredge in a quarter of a pound of flour with some salt and pepper to season, then addDAINTY DISHES 150 three pints of good brown stock, two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup; let it come to the boil, then add one onion, carrot, and turnip cut into dice. Simmer very slowly with the lid firmly closed, either in the oven or on the top of the stove. 838. Stuffed Steak.—Have some rump steak out rather thin in one large slice. Make a veal stuffing, spread it over and then roll it up, fastening with small skewers. Make a quarter of a pint of olive oil hot in a casserole and fry the beef a good brown outside, add one pint of Espagnol sauce with a quarter of a pint of tomato sauoe, and simmer slowly for two hours. Dish on an entree dish and garnish with grilled tomatoes. 839. Stewed Eels en Casserole. —One pint of Espagnol sauce and one pint of good beef gravy. When it boils put in the eels, cut up into pieces about two inches long. Let them simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Thicken the gravy if necessary with a little flour, add a large wineglassful of port and half the quantity of mushroom ketohup, pepper and salt to taste with just a squeeze of lemon juice. 840. Stewed Oxtail.—Joint the tail in neat pieces and fry them brown in the casserole, then add one pint of good brown sauoe with one pint of brown stock, with two cloves, a blade of mace, some salt and pepper. Cook slowly for four hours. Skim well and serve. It is rather a good plan to cook this the day previously, as the fat can be more readily removed when cold, and simply reheat it in the casse- role. 841. Dressed Steaks.—About two pounds of thm steak divided into strips, sprinkle each with minced onion, a dust of sage, salt and pepper, roll up and fasten with a small skewer. Heat some butter or oil in a casserole, fry brown, and then add one pint of brown sauce, a few mushrooms and simmer very slowly for an hour and a half. 842. Eggs with Cream.—Take small casseroles and butter them well, pour a little cream into each, then break an egg carefully and place in each, cover with more cream, sprinkle with salt and pepper a few crumbs on the top. Cook very gently for a few minutes in tho oven. 843. Eggs with Cheese.—May be prepared as in the preceding recipe, using grated oheese instead of breadcrumbs on the top and browned under the salamander or in front of the fire. 844. Bouch£es of Cheese.— Boil about half a pound of macaroni until tender, then strain it and cut it in small pieces. Butter some small oasserole moulds and half fill with macaroni, oover with one tablespoonful of tomato pur6e, then with cream, a little oayenne and salt, and a thick sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese on the top, and put them into a hot oven to brown. Serve very hot in the casseroles. 845. Seakale with Cheese.— Boil the seakale until tender in some good white stock, drain and cut in small pieces, then butter some small casseroles, holding suffi- cient for one person, and put in alternately a layer of seakale and aCASSEROLE COOKERY 161 layer of grated Parmesan cheese, cover with some good white creamy sauce and serve hot. 846. Homard a la Hollandaise. —Mince the meat of one hen lobster finely, saving the coral for decoration, mix it thoroughly with Hollandaise sauce and put into well-buttered casseroles. Serve either hot or cold and decorate the top with lobster coral before sending to table. 847. Fillets of Sole—Fillet the soles and spread on the skin side of each fillet a little lobster cutlet mixture. Put one fillet into each small casserole, and sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice over, cayenne and salt. Cover with cream and some crumbs on the top. Cook gently for fifteen to twenty minutes and serve. Garnish with lobster coral. 848. Stewed Lamb Chops.— Put the chops into a casserole with white stock just to cover, and one onion, six turnips sliced. Give it about one hour’s very gentle simmering, add pepper and salt and send to table. The mixture should be fairly thick when finished. 849. Stewed Rump Steak.— About two pounds of steak. Line the bottom of the oasserole with slices of fat ham or bacon, place the steaks on these—possibly there will have to be two layers—add a little allspice, a bouquet garni, one small carrot sliced, one large onion, half a dozen cloves, a little celery and pars- ley, cover with stock and simmer very gently for about two hours. Take up the steaks and dish them, then thicken the gravy with a little flour, some salt, a tablespoonful of claret and the same of mushroom ketchup. Strain the sauce over the steaks. Adding the salt when making the sauce and not in the first place, tends to keep the meat tender. 850. Minced Veal.—Mince some eold veal finely. Put four ounces of butter in a casserole, then mix in half the quantity of flour, a little pepper and salt, the grated rind of one lemon, half a pint of good white stock and the same of cream. Let this come to the boil and cook for twenty minutes, then skim it and put in the veal, letting it get quite hot, but the sauce must not boil again. Dish and serve with a garnish of cut lemon, small pieces of grilled bacon and little sippets of toast. 851. Hashed Hare.—Cut the remains of a roast hare into neat pieces, and with the trimmings that are left make a good sauce. Let these boil in a quart of brown stock for an hour, then strain it. Take three ounces of butter, the same of flour, add seasoning, half a pint of cream, then gradually add the stock and let the sauce thicken and boil for a quarter of an hour, then add two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, put in the pieces of hare and any stuffing cut in small squares. Let all get thoroughly hot and serve in the casserole. 852. Tomato Soup. — About three pounds of ripe red tomatoes, cut in slices and two or three rashers of bacon cut up small. Make a quarter of a pound of butter quite hot in a casserole and gently fry in this one small chopped onion, a little celery, a bouquet garni, and the bacon, after a few minutes add the sliced tomatoes, a few white152 DAINTY DISHES peppercorns and a little salt. Let this now boil quickly for about twenty minutes, pass the tomato puree through a hair sieve, using a wooden spoon so as to preserve the colour. Return to the casserole, add one quart of very good white stock, thicken with just a little arrowroot. When boiling and quite clear, and of a rich, red, natural colour, add two or three lumps of loaf sugar to counteract the acidity of the tomatoes. Serve in a soup tureen and hand fried bread cut in dice. 853. Italian Macaroni.—Boil one pound of macaroni in salted water until tender, about half an hour will cook it as a rule. Strain otf the water, let it drain and cut it in pieces one inch or an inch and a half long. Take a pint and a half of Espagnol sauce, make it hot in a casserole, put in the macaroni, add a little cayenne and three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese—this may also be served in small casse- roles, and in that case sprinkle a little cheese also on the top and let it brown. 854. Chicken a la Marengo.— Take two chickens and cut them into nice small joints, using only the best pieces; the chickens must be uncooked ones. Skin and fry them a nice golden brown in a casserole with about a quarter of a pint of salad oil. Pour off any oil remaining after this process, and add half a pint of good tomato puree and half a pint of brown sauce, some mushrooms peeled and a little seasoning to taste. Cover the casserole and cook very gently for one hour. Serve in the casserole. Savotmee. 855. Cassolette Pastry.—A very useful pastry for savouries is made as follows : Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into three-quarters of a pound of the best flour, add cayenne and salt, mix with the yolks only of two eggs, the juice of half a lemon and a very little water. Knead this well until quite smooth and roll out once. This may be used for lining moulds, cases or patty pans, or for biscuit-shaped founda- tions for savouries. 856. Scotch Woodcock.—But- ter some slices of toast and cut into small triangular shapes. Take a stewpan and melt in it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, stir into it the same quantity of flour, a little cayenne pepper and salt, then gradually add two tablespoonfuls of milk and the same quantity of cream until it has formed a thick white sauce, then add a few drops of anchovy sauce and stir in the yolk of an egg; lastly, remove from the fire and mix in a large tablespoonful of grated cheese. Arrange this mixture on the triangles of toast. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, chopping the yolks and whites separately, so that the triangles may be decorated alternately with the white and yellow, placing a tiny sprig of parsley in the centre of the pyramid. 857. Buttered Toast and Cheese. —Prepare some tiny slices of153 SAVOURIES buttered toast, sprinkle over it about a quarter of an inch deep some grated Parmesan cheese, seasoned with cayenne and salt. Brown it under the salamander or in front of a quick fire, and serve at once. 858. Marrow Bones.—Saw the bones even, so that they will stand steadily, each being about two inches in height, cover the ends with a piece of pastry and steam until they are done, or bake them in a slow oven for about an hour. Stand each on a round of toast, or serve fresh toasted bread in a small rack. 859. Anchovy Toast.—Fry some bread in clarified butter, cut into neat shapes and spread this mixture over. Some filleted anchovies pounded in a mortar, with a very little made mustard, and a dash of curry powder, rub this through a sieve and spread smoothly on the toast. 860. Devilled Biscuits.—Take some cassolette pastry. Knead this well and roll it out thinly, cut into biscuits and bake in a slow oven. Spread butter mixed with curry powder over them and return to the oven for one minute. Serve these either hot or cold as occasion requires. 861. Devilled Kidneys.—Skin and cut the kidneys in halves and gently saute them in about two ounces of bacon fat, sprinkle them with cayenne and salt, add a dessertspoonful of sherry and a few drops of any piquante sauce. Make quite hot and serve. 862. Oyster Savoury.—Take one dozen oysters blanched and bearded. Chop them small and put them into a stewpan with a little butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, make it quite hot, then stir in a little grated lemon peel, cayenne and salt with the yolk of one egg. Do not let this mixture boil, but when thoroughly hot, pile it upon some fried croutons of bread and garnish with lobster coral. 863. Oyster Cassolettes.—One dozen oysters blanched and bearded. Chop each into four pieces, mix them with three tablespoonfuls of cream, four cooked mushrooms finely chopped and one truffle. Keep this mixture hot in a stewpan and add cayenne and salt to taste. To make the cassolettes, take one pound of butter, divide it equally into twelve cork-shaped pieces, roll in white crumbs, then egg and bread-crumb and shape again. Take a sharp knife and mark a lid just a little way down, place the cassolettes in a frying-basket and fry in very hot fat to a golden brown. Drain for a minute or two on kitchen paper, then with a pointed knife raise the marked lid and let out the melted butter inside into a basin. Fill each cassolette case with the oyster mixture and replace the lid. Serve on a folded serviette and garnish with lobster coral and endive. 864. Aigrettes de Parmesan.— One pint of boiling water, dissolve in this two ounces of butter using rather a deep stewpan; when boiling gently sprinkle in half a pound of the best sifted flour and cook until thoroughly smooth, stirring all the while. Remove from the fire and beat in four whole eggs, one at a time, then add two more yolks, five ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little cayenne and salt.DAINTY DISHES 154 Let this cool. Drop teaspoonfuls of this mixture into some hot fat and let the fat get hotter whilst the process of frying goes on. They will expand like air balls. Drain and serve piled high on a dish with some grated cheese and finely- chopped parsley sprinkled over. 865. Cheese Fritters. — The whites of two eggs very stiffly whipped, add a little grated cheese, cayenne and salt. Mix lightly and fry in boiling fat, dropping in pieces about the size of a walnut. Drain and serve. 866. Cheese Puffs.—Roll out some puff pastry very thin, cutting out rounds about the size of a five- shilling piece. Put a teaspoonful of the following mixture in the centre of each. Some grated cheese and cream in equal quantities, cayenne and salt to taste. Moisten the edges with a beaten egg and fold in half-moon shapes. Brush over with egg and crumbs and fry in boiling fat a light fawn colour. 867. Iced Cheese Souffles.— Mix half a pint of good white sauce made with cream and stook, with the same quantity of warm aspic jelly, add a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, a little cayenne and made mustard. Whip all well together until beginning to set, then fill some ramequin cases, sprinkle with raspings and place in the refrigerator with ice round. 868. Cheese Ramequins.—Make a pint of cream warm and pour it on to a quarter of a pound of white bread and let this soak well. Then beat it up with a fork and add the yolks of four eggs, a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, with a little cayenne, made mustard and salt. Now whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly and mingle thoroughly with the mixture. Butter some ramequin cases, fill these three parts full, and bake ten to twelve minutes. Dish and serve. 869. Cheese Tartlets.— Bake some open cases of puff pastry and fill with the following mixture. One ounce of butter melted in a stewpan, mix in one ounce of flour, add gradually half a pint of cream, three ounces of grated cheese, a little cayenne and salt. Serve these either hot or cold as desired. 870. Fish Savoury Cream.— Melt half a pint of aspio jelly. Take some cooked dried haddock, about half a pound, and mince it finely, also half a pint of double cream. Whisk these all together until beginning to set, then fill some paper ramequin cases. Garn- ish with raspings on the top and serve in the cases. 871. Fricassee of Shrimps.— Half a pint of shrimps when picked. Make two ounces of butter hot in a stewpan, and fry a little shalot, parsley and thyme, then add one ounce of flour seasoned with salt and pepper, one quarter of a pint of good fish stock and the same quantity of cream should be gradu- ally mixed in and brought to the boil. Lastly, put in the shrimps. This mixture is very nice and may be piled on buttered toast or in cassolette cases, using cassolette pastry to line small patty pans ; garnish with shrimps and lobster coral. 872. Buttered Shrimps.—Egg and breadcrumb some small rounds of bread and fry in boiling fat.155 SAVOURIES Then fry about half a pint of picked shrimps in three tablespoon- fuls of butter, add a little salt and cayenne pepper and thicken with the yolks of two eggs and a little cream. Pile the mixture on the croutons and garnish with a filleted anchovy curled on eaoh, previously dipping it in lobster coral or paunrette crumbs. 873. Oysters & la Russe.—Bake some cassolette pastry in open tartlets, with some raw rice or peas in the centre to keep the shape. Make a sauce with two ounces of butter, half the quantity of flour, the liquor from a dozen oysters, and half a pint of oream, a little oayenne and salt. When the sauce has boiled add a squeeze of lemon juice and the chopped whites of two or three hard-boiled eggs. Fill the tartlets with this mixture. Lay an oyster on the top and just return to the oven for five minutes if a hot savoury is desired, otherwise leave the oysters uncooked. Garnish with the yolks of the eggs rubbed through a sieve. 874. Devilled Prawns.—Take some picked prawns, lightly flour them and put them in a frying- basket, plunging them into boiling fat for one minute. Have some chopped parsley, oayenne and salt sprinkled on a cloth, toss the fried prawns on to this and roll them about gently, until all are well seasoned. Serve immediately with thin brown bread and butter and garnish with a cut lemon and parsley. 875. Brains on Toast.—Soak some sheep’s or calf’s brains in salt water and remove the fibre, then simmer for about a quarter of an hour. Take up, remove all skim, chop up finely, adding a little minced ham, about three table- spoonfuls of cream, a little salt and pepper. Pile in pyramid form on triangles of buttered toast, sprinkle over some finely-ohopped parsley and serve quite hot. 876. Caviare.—Fry some small rounds of bread a golden brown, spread over with a little butter, then a layer of the caviare, with a squeeze of lemon juice. 877. Plovers’ Eggs.—Boil the eggs hard, then remove the shell and oover each with a ooating of foie gras, about an eighth of an inch thick. Egg and breadcrumb and fry a light fawn oolour. When cold, cut them in halves and serve with oress. 878. Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic.— Boil the eggs hard, dip in cold water and remove the shell, line a small mould with aspio jelly, deoorate with ohevril and truffle, place the eggs in the centre and fill up the mould with more aspio jelly. Turn out when cold, garnish with ohopped jelly and sprigs of endive. 879. Savoury Eggs.—Butter some small clariole moulds thickly, then sprinkle all over with finely- chopped ham, truffle and parsley, adding a little salt and pepper, put a raw egg in each, care being taken not to break the yolk. Steam until set and carefully turn out on to small rounds of buttered toast. 880. Ham Toast. — Mix the butter with a little mustard and spread on the toast. Have ready some minced ham and hard-boiled eggs finely chopped, in equal quanti- ties, put these in a saucepan with some oream and the yolk of an egg, oook until forming a thick mixture,156 DAINTY DISHES season to taste and serve on the toast quite hot. 881. Lobster Soufflfees.—Butter some small moulds very thickly. Make a stiff ponada with two table- spoonfuls of butter, the same quantity of flour, one-quarter of a pint of good fish stock, the same of thick cream, cayenne and salt to taste, the coral from a hen lobster, well pounded and dried, also the meat from the lobster, chopped and pounded, making a smooth mixture. Remove from the fire and beat in the yolks of two eggs thoroughly. Lastly, the whites of three eggs whipped very stiffly and mingled in. Fill the moulds half full and steam gently for twenty minutes. Turn out carefully on to a cassolette biscuit and garnish with a little of the coral. 882. Fried Oysters.—Beard the oysters, then dry them well in flour ; egg and breadcrumb them and fry in boiling fat for one minute. Garnish with watercress and lemon. 883. Mushrooms Farced.—Take some cup mushrooms, peel them and remove stalks, then fill them with this mixture. Some minced ham and breadcrumbs in equal propor- tions, a little finely-chopped shalot and parsley, seasoning to taste and mixed with a little cream. Bake in a hot oven and when cooked, serve on fried crohtons of bread. 884. Tomatoes Farced.—Choose some firm red tomatoes of equal size, cut out the centre core and stalks and fill with the above mixture. Bake and serve in a similar way. 885. Mushrooms and Tomato. —Cut some bread into rounds, egg and breadcrumb and fry a golden brown i Take some tomatoes, cut them in half and fry gently in some butter, with some mushrooms and a little seasoning. Put the half tomato the cut side up on the crouton and lay one mushroom on the top. Serve quite hot. 886. Tomato Toast.—Skin and slice some tomatoes and then fry them for about five minutes in some butter, then break into the pan two or three eggs, add a pinch of sugar, one rasher of bacon or ham very finely minced, and a little seasoning. Stir until it begins to set. Pile on small squares of fried bread. 887. Angels on Horseback.— Cut some round pieces of bread rather small and fry them in clari- fied butter till of a golden colour. Roll a little slice of grilled bacon round an oyster which has been made hot in its own liquor, and place on the top of each crouton with just a drop or two of lemon juice and a dust of cayenne pepper. 888. Stuffed Olives. — Make some biscuit rounds of cassolette pastry, and place a turned olive, stuffed with foie gras in the centre, curl a filleted anchovy round this, which has been dipped in lobster coral or panurette crumbs. Deco- rate with a small rose of anchovy butter on the top and one on either side of the biscuit, using a forcer. 889. Baked Cheese Souffle.— Butter a souffles dish or tin and fix round it a band of buttered paper to come up about three inches above. Melt three ounces of butter in a rather deep stewpan, stir in three ounces of flour, one pint of cream, cayenne and salt when it comes to the boil, remove from the157 8 A VOURIES fire and beat in the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, and a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese. Lastly, add the whipped whites of four eggs and mingle them well in. Pour into the prepared mould and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Remove the paper when cooked and send to table immedi- ately. 890. Cold Cheese Soufflee.— Take a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, half a pint of thick cream, one-quarter of a pint of aspic jelly, season with salt and cayenne. Just warm the jelly, then mix all together and fill little moulds lined with aspic jelly. Turn out and garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a little grated cheese on the top. 891. Soft Roes on Toast with Oysters.—Have some rounds of buttered toast in readiness. Then saute some soft roes of bloaters in butter, sprinkle with a little cayenne and salt. Make the oysters hot in their own liquor, having previously taken off the beards. Place a nice piece of roe curled round on the toast, with an oyster on top in the centre. Sprinkle over one or two drops of lemon juice, garnish and serve with watercress. 892. Mock Foie Gras.—About half a pound of goose and chicken livers, a quarter of a pound of bacon, a bouquet garni of parsley, ma- joram, thyme, just a soupQon of garlic, a little carrot, celery and nutmeg, one bay leaf, pepper and salt. Mince the livers and bacon, carrot and celery, then put all into a saut6 pan and stir to pre- vent burning. Cook until all the flavours are well extracted, pound in a mortar and pass through a wire sieve. Put this in a potted meat jar, covered with clarified butter. It will keep for two or three weeks, if necessary. 893. Anchovies and Shrimps. —Bake some small shells of casso- lette pastry and let them get cold. Take half a pint of picked shrimps, four filleted anchovies, two table- spoonfuls of cream, a very little cayenne. Pound these all together in a mortar and fill the cases, garnish with shrimps and finely- chopped parsley. 894. Bengal Toast.—Prepare some small rounds of buttered toast. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a stewpan. Beat up three eggs with one tablespoonful of chopped capers and one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and just a little cayenne. Turn this mixture into the butter and cook gently until it thickens, then spread it thickly over the toast and serve very hot, 895. Welsh Rarebit.—Half a pound of grated dry cheese, two tablespoonfuls of butter, the same quantity of cream, one teaspoon- ful of made mustard, a little salt. Melt the butter first in a stewpan, then add all the other ingredients and make quite hot. Serve on toast and send to table imme- diately. 896. Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skin some kidneys and cut them in halves, and cut some tomatoes in slices about a quarter of an inch thick and saut6 both in three ounces of butter. Egg and crumb some small rounds of bread and fry a golden brown, then lay a slice of tomato on each and the kidney on that, the out side upper-158 DAINTY DISHES most. Mix on a plate one tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of butter, a squeeze of lemon juice with a little cayenne and salt. Put a little pat of this on to each kidney and serve. Garnish with parsley or endive. 897. Eggs Farced. —Boil some eggs hard, remove the shell and cut eaoh in halves lengthwise, cutting also a little of the white so that they stand steadily. Re- move the yolks and pound in a mortar with a little cream and potted meat or fish, season to taste and form into oblong shapes, put one in each egg, and form a handle over with a parsley stalk to represent egg-baskets. Dish on small cress, or watercress, To be served cold. Sundries, 898. Chicken Galantine.—The chicken must first of all be boned. To do this cut off the neck, leaving as much of the skin on as possible ; cut the wings off at the first joint, and the feet. Then commence to bone by dividing the bones at the shoulder and taking out the merry- thought, continue to press the flesh off the caroase with the thumb and divide any sinews with a sharp knife. The fowl should not be drawn, but the carcase taken out whole. On coming to the leg divide it at the joint, being careful not to cut the skin, and get the carcase out whole ; then bone the legs and wings, soraping the flesh off with a knife. Take a pair of scissors and cut down the back, and spread it out as large and as flat as possible. Half a pound of veal should be put through the mincing machine and mixed with the same quantity of sausage meat. Mix pimento (one teaspoonful) with some pepper and salt, and sprinkle some of this seasoning on the chicken; then half the sausage and veal, spread evenly over, and half of the other ingredients cut in strips consisting of two hard boiled eggs, some truffles, pickled gherkins, one or two chillies, sprinkle more seasoning, then the rest of meat, seasoning and pickles. Roll this up tightly and sew it up, tie it in a cloth and plunge it into boiling water and let it simmer for an hour and a half or braize it for two hours. When cooked take it up and take off the cloth, roll it up tightly in a clean one and press it between two dishes with a weight on the top. When quite cold, brush it over with one or two coats of glaze, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly and cucumber. 899. Turkey Galantine.—This must be boned exactly like the chicken, spread the same stuffing over and put a whole tongue in the middle of the turkey, the tip of the tongue towards the breast. The tongue must be cooked first. Roll up the turkey so that the stuffing comes all round the tongue and sew it up. Tie up in a cloth and boil for two and a half hours or braize for three hours. Finish off and glaze. 900. Rabbit Boned and Stuffed. Bone a rabbit; spread over half the sausage meat, the egg, ham, and walnuts, gherkins, and chillies in159 SUNDRIES strips ; then the other half of meat in same manner, Tie up tightly in a cloth, and boil in stock for two hours. Take it up and press lightly. When cold, out in cutlets, arrange in saut6 pan, and cover with aspic jelly. Dish on ohopped aspio jelly, garnished with endive and radish. 901. Brisket of Beef Spiced.— Weigh the meat and allow half an hour to eaoh pound and half an hour over. Let it oook very gently and plunge it into hot water, Tie up in a muslin bag one blade of mace, some cloves, allspice, and peppercorns. Boil one carrot and one turnip with it. Take up the meat when done, slip out the bones at once, and then press the meat between two dishes with a weight on the top. Leave till quite cold. Then glaze the top with the above stock boiled down to two table- spoonfuls : if not dark enough, add a drop or two of browning. 902. Roast Chicken, Boned and Stuffed.—Bone the chicken, with the exception of the wings and legs, and then stuff it with this forcemeat: half a pound of minced veal, quarter pound of beef suet, quarter pound of bread crumbs, a few mushrooms and truffles, pars- ley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon peel. Mix this with two eggs, stuff the chicken, and truss into shape and roast it. This may be served either hot or oold. 903. Galantine of Beef. — About two pounds of rump steak cut about half an inch thick. Trim this into an oblong shape and spread over with this mixture : the trimmings of the beef chopped or minced finely, half a pound of minced ham, two hard-boiled eggs, also chopped, pepper, salt and allspice, a quarter of a pound of breadorumbs, Mix with a little cream and two raw eggs, spread this mixture evenly over, roll up and stitch into shape. Cook for about two hours gently, the same as for other galantines, press into shape, glaze when oold. 904. Fruit Salad.—This may be made with any ripe fruits in season, mixed in a bowl. Then make a syrup with one pound of loaf sugar and half a pint of water, well boiled for ten minutes, add a small glass of Cura9oa or Chartreuse or any liqueur and pour it over the fruit. Serve either in a large china bowl or on small ice plates, and stand on ice or in a cool place until wanted. 905. Meringues. — Take a quarter of a pound of castor sugar to each white of egg. A board is used for these to bake on, so that the inside should remain soft; if they were baked on a tin they would be hard all over. Cover the board with a piece of oiled paper. Then take a cold basin and break into it the whites of the eggs, taking great care that none of the yolk goes in. Have a cool and dry whisk, and put a pinch of salt on the whites and whip them to a very strong froth, then stir in the sugar (which must have been sifted), and shape them like an egg very quickly with two dessert-spoons and a knife dipped in cold water. Lay them on the oiled paper, sift more sugar over, and dry them well in a warm oven. When thoroughly set, turn them over and scoop out the soft part. Put them on a clean piece of paper on the board and let them dry again in the oven, the160 DAINTY DISHES soft side up. When cold fill them with whipped cream, flavoured and sweetened. 906. Strawberry Salad.—Put some picked strawberries into a large basin and toss them about in castor sugar to sweeten and bring out the flavour. Add a little vinegar, and continue tossing them gently till all is absorbed. Pile them up on a dish and serve with dessert. 907. Strawberry Gateau.—Take a round sponge cake about six inches in diameter and cut a lid off, moisten the cake outside with jam and stick round either meringue finger biscuits or Savoy. Scoop out the centre. Tie round with a ribbon. Then fill up to the brim with straw- berries and whipped cream. Place the lid on and put some more whipped cream on the top, garnished with strawberries. 908. Portuguese Salad.—Set a border mould with clear aspic jelly, and in it first a decoration of lobster coral. Let that set; then add a layer of hard-boiled yolk of egg, passed through a sieve. Then, when that is set, put in pieces of lobster, caviare, truffle, capers, and anohovies filleted. When set, turn out and fill the centre with small salad, and some finely-chopped aspic jelly round the dish. 909. Caramel Walnuts.—Take some Marzapan and form in oval shapes. Plaoe the half of a peeled walnut on either side and insert a little stick or skewer at one end. Then make some caramel with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, half a gill of water, a little lemon juice, and three drops of acetic acid. Boil this to the snap over a glimmer of gas, dip the walnuts in quickly, giving them a thin coating of the caramel all over. Let them dry on an oiled plate or slab, and serve in fancy cases. 910. Creme de Volaille.—Butter a souffl6e mould with cold clarified butter. Pound a quarter of a pound of raw meat from the breast of a chicken in a cold mortar, and season it with pepper and salt to taste. Whip up half a pint of good thick cream. Pass the chicken through a wire sieve, and gradually mix the cream in with it. Try a spoonful of the mixture by poaching it, and if not light enough add a little more cream. Put the mix- ture into the mould, knocking the mould gently on a cloth, so as to fill the mould evenly. Steam very gently, and serve with a creamy white sauce, either Bechamel or Supreme.INDEX £ugbettes de Parmesan, 153 Allemande sauce, 25 Almond cheese-cakes, 100 cups, 109 paste, 109 pastry, 107 Anchovies and shrimps, 157 Anchovy salad, 80 toast, 89, 153 Angels on Horseback, 156 Appetissante sauce, 31 Apple cakes, 108 ginger, 127 jelly. 111 jelly, to preserve, 133 pudding, 96 sauce, 28 water, 141 Apples with cream, 108 with jelly, 109 with rice meringue, 108 Apricot compote, 132 jam, 132 paste, 132 pudding, 96 to preserve, 132 Arrowroot, to make, 139 pudding, 91 sauce, 106 Artichoke bottoms au blanc, 77 a la cr6me, 77 Jerusalem, 77 Asparagus a la creme, 75 au jus, 75 to boil, 76 Aspic, 53 of fillets of chickens, 53 Baba, 102 Balbirnie salad sauce, 22 Balbirnie sauce for cold pheasant, 19 Balloon-cakes, 123 Barberry water-ice, 116 Barley gruel, 140 meal scones, 123 water, clear, 140 thick, 140 Barn break (Irish), 120 Bath cakes, 119 Batter pudding, 92 baked, 92 Beans, broad, au jus, 71 French, a la poulette, 70 stewed, 71 white, a la maitre d’hotel, 70 Becassines, salmi de, 57 Bechamel, or white sauce, 25 Beef, a la vinaigrette, 51 round of, baked, 45 bouilli, 46 broth, 12 collared, 46 dressed, to eat cold, 46 Dutch, 46 en papillotes, 47 en saucissons, 47 galantine, 159 olives, 148 sausages, 67 sportsman’s, 45 steaks, to cook, 48 relishing, 49 tea, 135 to boil, 45 to salt, 45 Beetroot, fricassee of, 78 stewed, 78 and small onions, to dress with a sauce piquante, 78 Beignets d’abricots, 103 LINDEX 162 Beignets de fraises, 103 de groseilles, 103 d’orange, 103 Beignets de pSches au vin du Rhin,102 de pommes k la Bavaria, 102 en surprise, 103 Bengal toast, 157 Beurre de Montpellier, 22 noir, for skate, etc., 33 Biscuits, k la cuilliere, 124 devilled, 153 Marathon, 125 Naples, 124 orange, 130 paste, 107 potato, 124 sugar, 124 Black puddings, 66 Blanquette of veal k la Paysanne, 62 Bloaters, 147 Yarmouth, to cook, 42 Bouchees of cheese, 150 Boudins of rabbit, 61 Bouillabaise 4 l’Anglaise, 18 a Marseilles receipt, 17 Brains on toast, 155 Brandy butter-sauce for plum pud- ding, 105 cherries, 131 mixture, 142 Bread, aerated, 119 Bread-and-butter pudding, 92 berry, 138 brown, ice-cream, 116 cake, 121 excellent, 118 a plain loaf of, 118 panada, 138 pudding, 93 Bread sauce, 29 to make brown, 118 to make fine, 118 very fine, 119 Breakfast cakes, 120 Brisket of beef spiced, 159 Brioche, 121 Broth, beef, 12 calves’ feet, 136 chicken, 136 clear, or English, 12 Scotch mutton, 11 sheep’s head, 12 Broth, Sir Robert Preston’s, 11 sportsman’s, 14 veal, a very nourishing, 136 Brussels sprouts au jus, 74 Buns, 120 Burnt cream, 108 Butter, anohovy, 21 Montpellier, 22 pimento, 21 shallot, 22 melted, 32 sauce, k la maitre d’hfltel, 27 Buttered eggs, 84 toast and cheese, 152 Cabbage a la bourgeoise, 73 en surprise, 73 lettuce, to stew, 74 red, a Dutch receipt for, 73 red, to stew, 73 Cabinet pudding, 95 Cakes, balloon, 123 Bath, 119 breakfast, 120 Cheltenham, 119 ginger, 123 luncheon, 124 oat, 123 rice, 123 Savoy biscuit, or, 123 sponge, 123 short, 124 Yorkshire, 123 Calves’ feet broth, 136 feet pie (Scottish), 64 foot jelly, 110 head pie (Scottish), 64 Camp vinegar, 23 Canapes, 88 Canard k la Bearnoise, 56 a la puree verte, 56 Caparata, 66 Capres sauce for fish, 33 Caramel cream, 114 walnuts, 160 Carp, matelote of, 37 sauce for, 32 Carrots a l’Allemande, 72 au jus, 71 au sucre, 71 mashed, 71 to stew, 71163 INDEX Casserole cookery, 148 Casserolles of rice, 64 Cassolette pastry, 152 Caudle, 138 Cauliflower a la bechamel, 74 au gratin, 74 stewed, 74 Caviare, 155 Celery sauce, 30 soup, 15 stewed, 75 k la crSme, 75 Chaud-froid en salade, 81 Char, potted, 44 Charlottes de pommes aux abricots, 109 Chartreuse of vegetables, 72 Cheese and ale, 88 baked, 86 boiled, 86 bouchees, 150 fritters, 154 gooseberry, 134 lemon, 113 puffs, 153 ramequins, 154 soufflee, 156 baked, 157 stewed, 86 straws, 87 tartlets, 154 toasts, 87 with eggs, 86, 150 cakes, 99 almond, 100 curd, 99 lemon, 100 orange, 100 Cherries, brandy, 131 for drying, to preserve, 131 Cherry jelly, 111 water ice, 115 Cheltenham cakes, 119 Chicken a l’Espagnole, 148 & la Marengo, 152 broth, 136 capilotade of, 52 cold minced, aux fines herbes, 53 curried, 149 fricassee of, 52 galantine, 158 Chicken panada, 138 pie aux feuilletages, 62 quenelles of, 61 salad with cucumbers, 81 tea, 136 cold, to dress, 53 Chocolate cream-ice, 116 Chou & la bougeoise, 73 en surprise, 73 Choufleurs a la bechamel, 74 au-gratin, 74 Chutnee sauce, 23 Citron pudding, 97 Clouted cream, 114 Cock-a-leekie, 12, 13 Cod a la crflme, 40 curry, 43 pie, 42 Cod’s-head soup, 17 Coffee-cream, 113 ice, 116 Colcannon, 73 Cold chicken, to dress, 53 game, to dress, 53 Cold minced chicken, aux fine herbes, 53 veal, to dress, 53 College pudding, 93 Collops, hare, 66 minced (Scottish), 65 Cordial for an invalid, 143 for the weak, 143 Crab au gratin, 43 salad, 81 Cream, burnt, 108 caramel, 114 clouted, 114 coffee, 113 currant, 113 Dutch, 112 Flemish, 112 Italian, 112 mille fruit, 114 orange, 113 orange-flower, 114 pine-apple, 113 raspberry, 113 sack, 113 souffle, 97 strawberry, 113 velvet, 114 Creme, frangipane, 101164 INDEX CrSme au gelee, 112 de Volaille, 160 patissi&re, 101 au the vert, 114 Cringles, 120 Croquettes de riz h la fieur d’orange, 104 Crofitons aux rognons, 80 Crumpets, 120 Crystallized fruits, 131 Cucumbers and onions, 76 stewed, 77 to preserve, 127 Cullis, or brown sauce, 25 Cup, lemon, 141 Curd cheese-cakes, 99 Currant cream, 113 jelly, to make, 128 black, 130 white, 130 red, water-ice, 116 syrup, black, 130 Currants, to preserve, 126 Curried eggs, 85 Curry, the admiral’s, 59 the baronet’s, 60 the general’s, 59 powder, 60 the professor’s, 60 Bengal, 60 sauce, 30 a wet, 59 Custard ice-cream, 116 pudding, 91 baked, 91 sauce for puddings, 105 tart, 107 Cutlets, mutton, aux concombres, 49 en rob de chambre, 48 a la marini6re, 48 relishing, 49 veal, 62 Dampfnudel (Bavarian), 105 Devilled biscuits, 153 kidneys, 153 prawns, 155 Dried fruits, 126 Drink for a cough, an excellent, 142 for a fever, 142 imperial, 142 Duck k la Bearnoise, 56 Duck a puree verte, 56 ragout, 56 salmi, 57, 149 wild, sauce for, 28 Dunnikier orange pudding, 96 Dusselle sauce, 26 Dutch cream, 112 flummery, 140 sauce for cold meat, 19 for fish, 32 Echatjdies, des, 121 Eels, matelote of, 37 a la pcalette, 36 spitchcocked, 37 a la Tartare, 37 stewed en Casserole, 150 Egg-cheese, 100 cordial, 142 sauce for fish (Flamaude), 33 vermicelli, 84 Eggs a la bonne femme, 84 au bouillon, 85 au soleil, 85 buttered, 84 curried, 85 en-cuisse, 84 with cheese, 86, 150 with cream, 150 farcies, 85, 158 en fricass6e, 85 fried, 86 and ham, 84 a la neige, 101 a la Proven9ale, 84 en puree, 86 sur le plat, 86 timbales of, au jus de perdrix, 85 with truffles, 86 Endive, to stew, 75 Espagnole sauce, 26 Fastnacht Krapfen, 109 Fig pudding, 93 Filets de maqueraux, 39 de Lievre en poivrade, 61 Fillets of sole, 151 of turkey, 56 Fish pie, 42 pudding, 42 savoury cream, 154INDEX 165 Fish sauce, to keep, 23 without butter, 31 soup (Scotch), 17 soup, stock for, 16 Flemish cream, 112 Flounders, 38 Flummery, 139 Dutch, 140 rice, 140 Foie gras, mock, 157 Fondu, 87 Fowl scollops a l’essence de concom' bres, 54 soup or jelly, 138 Frangipane, 107 cr6me, 101 Friar’s chicken, thick, 13 clear, 13 Fricassee of beetroot, 78 of chicken, 52 of shrimps, 154 of eggs, 85 Fritters, apple, 102 apricot, 103 currant, 103 en surprise, 103 orange, 103 peach, 102 Prussian, 103 rice, 104 Spanish, 103 strawberry, 103 Fromage cuit, 86 Fruits, crystallized, 131 dried, 126 Fruit salad, 159 Furmity, 139 Galantine beef, 159 chicken, 158 turkey, 158 Game, cold, to dress, 53 to roast, 58 Gateau a la reine, 102 au-riz, 90 aux pistaches, 101 de-nouilles, 90 de pommes, 108 Napolitaine a la Chantilly, 102 Genoises Glac6 k l’ltalienne, 101 German omelette, 83 pudding sauce, 105 German puffs, 104 rolls, 121 salad, 80 sauce, 20, 22 Ginger-apple, 127 cakes, 123 cream ice, 117 pudding, 96 to imitate, 127 Gingerbread honeycomb, 122 loaf, 122 Nuremberg, 122 nuts, 122 without butter, 122 Gloucester jellies, 137 Godiveau, or veal forcemeat, 67 Gooseberry biscuits, 134 cheese, 134 jam, 133 jelly, 134 pudding, 96 to preserve, 126 Grape water-ice, 116 Gravy, brown, for sauces, 25 for game or fowl, 29 of veal, clear, for sauces, 25 Greengages in brandy, 131 to preserve, 131 Green sauce for boiled chicken, 29 for ducklings, 28 Grill, sauce for, 31 Grillon sauce, 32 Grit gruel, 139 Grouse salad, 57 salmi, 57 to roast, 58 sauce, 20 Gruel barley, 140 Gruel grit, 139 oatmeal, 139 Gunner’s delight, 23 Hachee sauce, 26 Haddocks a la maitre d’hotel, 35 aux capres, 35 rizard, 42 with brown sauce (Scotch), 35 see also, 147 Haggis, 65 Ham and eggs, 84 sauce, 26 toast, 155166 INDEX Hanoverian sauce, 19 Hare collops, 66 filets en poivrade, 61 hashed or stewed, 61, 151 jugged, 56, 149 pie (Scotch), 63 soup, 14 to dress, 48 Haricot mutton, 149 Haricots & la Bretonne, 70 blancs au jus, 70 Hartshorn jelly, 137 Hasty pudding, 93 Herrings, baked, 41 boiled, 41 in a crust, 41 pickled, 42 red, 43 k la Bruxelloise, 42 Hollandaise sauce (a real Dutch receipt), 32 Homard a la Hollandaise, 151 Horseradish sauce, 30 Hotch potch, 12 Ice, barberry water, 116 cherry water, 115 coffee, 116 cream, brown bread, 116 China, orange, 117 chocolate, 116 custard, 116 ginger, 117 green tea, 116 orange-flower, 117 plain, 116 pineapple jam, 116 ratafia biscuit, 116 Frontignac grape water, 116 lemon-water, 115 noyeau-water, 115 orange-water, 115 peach-water, 115 pine-apple water, 115 punch, 116 red-currant water, 116 strawberry water, 115 to clarify sugar for, 115 Ices, to freeze, 114 Iced cheese souff!6e, 154 Iceland moss jelly, 137 Indian sandwiches, 88 Indian sauce, 21 Irish stew, 49 Isinglass, clarified, 110 Italian cream, 112 sauce, 27 Italienne sauce for fish, 33 Ivory-dust jelly, 137 Jam, gooseberry, 133 pineapple, 133 raspberry, 133 Jellies for the sick and poor, 136 Jelly, apple, 111 black currant, 130 cake, to make to keep, 137 calf’s foot, 110 cherry, 111 currant, to make, 128 Gloucester, 137 gooseberry, 134 harshorn, 137 Iceland moss, 137 ivory-dust, 137 orange, 111 of orange-flowers and cham- pagne, 110 orange sponge, 111 pineapple, 110, 132 to preserve, 132 punch, 110 raspberry, 111 red strawberry, 111 sponge, 110 without boiling, to make, 128 white currant, 130 with cream, 112 and miroton of peaches, 112 John Dorey, sauce for, 33 Kedgebee, 44 Kidneys, 65 a la brochette, 65 Kidneys 4 la maitre d’hfitel, 157 Kidneys, devilled, 153 stewed, 148 Kidneys and mushrooms, 148 Kidneys, saut6, 65 veal, 89 Kippers, dried, 147 Lait de poule, 143 Lamb chops a l’Africaine, 49INDEX 1G7 Lamb chops 4 la Boulang6re, 49 chops au feu, 49 chops, stewed, 161 Lamb’s-head stove, 60 and fry, 60 Lapereaux aux fines herbes, 68 Lark pie, 63 Larks en ragout, 66 Laver, 79 Lemonade, 141 Lemon cheese, 113 cheesecakes, 100 cup, 141 custard pudding, 92 pudding, 96 puffs, 105 sauce for boiled fowl or rabbit, 28 water ice, 116 whey, 142 Lentil soup, 15 Linseed drink, 142 Loaf, a diet, 122 a gingerbread, 122 Lobster au gratin, 43 curry, 43 salad, 80, 81 sauce, 31 souffffies, 156 Luncheon cake, 124 Macaroni 4 la Napolitaine, 90 Italian, 152 pie, 62 pudding, 92 Macedoine, a Dutch, 73 Macedoine of vegetables, 73 Mackerel 4 l’ltalienne, 39 4 la maitre-d’hotel, 39 Mackerel fillets, 39 pickled, 42 see also, 147 Madaleine cakes, 107 Maigre soup, 15 white, 16 Maitre d’hfitel maigre, 27 sauce, 27 sauce for fish, 34 Marathon biscuits, 125 Marmalade, chip, 129 Mrs. Ray’s, 129 Marmalade of the whole orange, 129 Marmalade pineapple, 133 pudding, 93 smooth, 128 Marrow pudding, 94 bones, 153 Mayonnaise sauce, 21 Melton-Mowbray soup, 16 Meringuee riz, 97 Meringues, 159 Milk-whey, clarified, 142 Mille fruit cream, 114 Mince pies, 94 Minced collops, 65 sandwiches, 89 Mock foie gras, 157 Monday pudding, 95 Moorfowl soup, 14 Morels in cream, 80 Mouton eminc6, 50 langues de, 50 queues de, 50 tourte de cdtelettes de, a la Perigord, 61 Muffins, 120 Muffin pudding, 95 Mullet, red, 147 Mulligatawny soup, 14 Mushroom gravy, 30 ketchup, 24 toasts, 79 Mushrooms 4 la creme, 80 farcie, 79, 156 grilled, 79 ragofit of, 79 and tomato, 150 Mustard sauce, 20 Mutton broth, 11 Sir Robert Preston’s, 11 chops, to cook, 48 Mutton chops au feu, 49 cutlets aux concombres, 49 cutlets 4 la mariniero, 48 cutlets en robe de chambre, 48 hashed, 4 la Nell Gwynne, 51 hashed, 50, 61 haunch, to eat like venison, 47 leg of, 4 la Perigord, 47 shoulder of, marinade, 47 Naples biscuits, 124 Newcastle sauce for fish, 33 Noyeau water-ice, 115168 INDEX Oat-cakes, 123 Oatmeal gruel, 139 water, 140 CEufs a la Neige, 101 au bouillon, 86 au fromage, 86 au soleil, 85 aux truffes, 86 en fricassee, 86 en puree, 86 farcie, 85 sauce aux (Flamande), 33 sur le plat, 86 Olives, stuffed, 156 Omelette, 84 a very light, 83 aux fines herbes, 84 German, 83 souffl6, 98 sweet, 97 Onion sauce, 29 Onions and cucumbers, 76 stewed, 74 to boil, 74 Orange biscuits, 130 cheesecakes, 100 cream, 113 cream ice, 117 flowers and champagne jelly, 110 Orange-flower cream, 114 ice, 117 jelly, 111 jelly to preserve, 129 pudding, 96 sponge jelly, 111 syrup, 129 tart, 108 water ice, 115 Oranges, sliced, 130 Orgeat, fresh, or almond milk, 141 of Montpellier, 141 Ox tail, stewed, 150 Oyster casserole, 153 savoury, 153 Oysters, fried, 156 a la Russe, 154 Pailles au Parmesan or cheese straws, 87 Panada, bread, 138 cflicken, 138 Pancakes, 98 English, 99 French, 99 rice, 99 Paper Bag Cookery, 147 Parsnips, mashed, 71 Partan pie, 43 Partridge en casserole, 149 Partridge pie, 63 salmi, 56, 57 soup or jelly, 138 Partridge, stewed, 136 old, to stew, 55 Paste, biscuit, 107 crisp, for tarts, 106 to fry, 101 for lining moulds or timbales, 106 for raised pies, 106 Pastry, almond, 107 cassolette, 152 Pate a frire, 101 Patissiere creme, 101 Patties, petits, 64 Peach water-ice, 115 Peaches, jelly and miroton of, 112 Peas a la crime, 70 a la Frangiaise, 70 soup, green, 15 to stew, 69 pudding, 70 Pea-soup, 135 Pepper pot, 18 Perch, boiled, 37 Perdreaux au celery blanc, 51 Mayonnaise de, 54 Perigord pie, 63 Pheasant soup or jelly, 138 Pickle, American, 126 for ham or tongues, 125 Hamburg, 125 Indian, 125 Pickles, hot, 125 Pie, calf’s head (Scotch), 64 calf’s feet (Scotch), 64 chicken, 64 cod, 42 fish, 42 hare (Scotch), 63 lark, 63 mince, 94 partan, 43INDEX 169 Pie, perigord, 63 pigeon, 64 sheep’s head (Scotch), 63 Pigeons a la Tartare, 65 Piquante sauce, 19, 20, 26, 27 Pike, farci, 38 Pineapple, cream-ice, 116 cream, preserved, 113 in slices, 133 jam, to preserve, 133 jam ice, 116 jelly, 110 Plaice, filleted, 147 Pineapple jelly, to preserve, 132 marmalade, 133 toasts, 103 water ice, 113 Pistaches, gateau aux, 101 Pitcaithley bannock, 124 Plombi&re, 112 Plover’s eggs, 156 Plover’s eggs in aspic, 155 Plum pudding, 94 rich, 94 Plums for tarts, to preserve, 127 Poivrade sauce, 29 to keep, 21 Pork sausages, 67 soup or jelly, 138 Porridge, 139 Portugal eggs, 100 onions, stewed, 74 Potato biscuits, 124 chips, 69 fritters, 68 salad (German), 69 soup, 13 snow, 68 Potatoes h la Lyonnaise, 68 h la maitre d’hdtel, 69 baked, 68 broiled, 68 fried mashed, 68 mashed (Indian), 68 roasted, 68 to boil, 07 Pot au feu, 11 Poulets k l’estragon, 52 k la Tartare, 55 aux petits pois, 52 matelotte de petits, 53 s$lad de, aux concombres, 81 Poulette sauce, 26 Prawns, devilled, 155 Preserving vegetables, 82 Proven9ale sauce, 19 Prussian fritters, 103 Pudding, apple, 96, 97 apricot, 96 arrowroot, 91 batter, 92 baked, 92 black, 66 bread, 93 bread and butter, 92 cabinet, 95 citron, 97 college, 93 custard, 91 baked, 91 fig, 93 ginger, 96 gooseberry, 96 ground-rice custard, 91 hasty, 93 in haste, 93 lemon, 96 custard, 92 macaroni, 92 marmalade, 93 marrow, 94 Monday, 95 muffin, 95 of fish, 42 orange, 96 Dunnikier, 96 pease, 70 plum, 94 rich, 94 Queen Mab’s (cold), 113 ratafia, 95 rice, without eggs, 90 sauces, 105 sago custard, 91 Sir Watkin Wynne’s, 94 sponge cake, 93 Sunday, 94 tapioca, 90 poor man’s, 90 Tedworth Albert, 93 vermicelli, 92 white, 67 without eggs, 90 Yorkshire, 92170 INDEX Puff pastry, to make, 100 Puffs, German, 104 lemon, 105 Punch ice, 116 jelly, 110 Puree de vanets, 72 Queen Mab’s pudding (cold), 113 Quenelles aux truffes, 62 of chicken, 61 Rabbits a la Provengale, 61 boned and stuffed, 158 boudins of, 61 hashed or stewed, 61 Racines & la cr6me, 72 en menu droits, 72 Ramequins, 87 4 la Sefton, 87 sou016, 87 Raspberry cream, 113 jam, 133 jelly, 111 tart & la cr&me, 108 water, 141 Ratafia biscuit ioe-cream, 116 pudding, 95 Ravigote sauce, 20 Ravioli k la Napolitaine, 89 Relishing sauce, 28 Remoulade sauce, 21 Rhubarb water, 141 Rice-cake, 123 Rice cakes, 104 casserolles of, 64 croquettes, 104 fritters, 104 ground, custard-pudding, 91 milk, 140 meringu6e, 97 pancakes, 99 pudding, without eggs, 90 souffl6, 98 for curries, to boil, 59, 60, 61 Roe-deer, to dress, 48 Roes on toast, 157 Rognon, crofitons aux, 89 de boeuf, 65 Rolls, French, 119 German, 121 to make fine, 118 Rdties & la mlnime, 88 Rfities aux epinards, 76 d’anchois, 88 Roux, or thickening for sauces, 24 Royal sauce, 28 Rumford soup, 134 Rump Steak, 151 Rusks, 121 Rusks (Frenoh), 121 Sabajone sauce for puddings, 106 Sack cream, 113 Sago custard pudding, 91 milk for the poor, 135 Salad a la Tartare, 81 anchovy, 80 boiled, 82 endive, k la Frangaise, 81 fruit, 159 German, 80 lobster, 80 or crab, 81 Portuguese, 160 sauce, 22 Balbirnie, 22 (German), 22 strawberry, 160 of grouse, 57 Salade, chaudfroid en, 81 de-poulets-aux concombres, 81 Sally lunns, 119 Salmagundi, 88 Salmi a l’ancienne, 58 chaud-froid, 57 de becassines, 57 de chasseur, 58 of duck, 57 of grouse or partridge, 56 of partridge, 57 of woodcock, 57 Salmon au court bouillon, 40 boiled as at Berwick, 40 broiled, with a brown cause, 40 broiled, with a white sauce, 40 collops, 41 dried, Yorkshire receipt to dress, 41 en caisse, 41 trout, sauce-for, 33 Irish pickle for, 41 method of kippering, 45 soup, 16 see also 148171 INDEX Salsifis en salade or aspic, 77 fried, 78 Sandwiches, Indian, 88 minced, 89 Sauce k la grillon, 32 k la ravigote, 20 k la Tartare, 20 anchovy butter, 21 aux capres, 33 aux ceufs (Flamande), 33 Bilbirnie, for cold pheasant, 19 salad 22 beurre & la maitre d’hdtel, 21 beurre noir, 33 Dutch, 32 for cold meat, 19 for oarp, 32 for cold game, 19 for cold meat or fish, 19 for fillets of sole, 32, 33 for grouse, 20 for salmon trout, 33 for turbot or John Dorey, 33 German, for boiled beef, 20 German salad, 22 Hollandaise, 32 Indian, 21 Italienne, 33 lobster, 31 maitre d’hdtel, 34 Mayonnaise, 21 melted butter, 32 mustard, 20 Newcastle, 33 oyster, 31 piquante, 19, 20 pimento butter, 21 poivrade, to keep, 21 Pro ven gale, 19 salad, 22 shallot butter, 22 beurre de Montpellier, 22 without butter, 31 Sauce, cold, an excellent vinegar for salad, 24 camp vinegar, 23 chutnee, 23 fish, 23 good, 23 added to gravy for cut- lets, 24 gunner’s delight, 23 Sauce, mushroom ketchup, 24 shallot vinegar, 23 Tarragon vinegar, 23 tomato ketchup, 24 to keep, useful for cold meat, etc., 23 * volage,’ 23 hot, k la Dusselle, 26 k l’Espagnole, 26 k la maitre d’hdtel, 27 k la marquise, 29 a la reino, 28 k la tripe, 30 Allemande, 26 appdtissante, 31 apple, 28 au jus d’orange, 28 au petit maitre, 29 bechamel, or white, 25 bread, 29 brown roux, 24 brown gravy, 26 celery, 30 Sauce, clear gravy of veal, 26 curry, 30 for a grill, 31 for a steak, 30 for teal, 28 for veal cutlets, 30 for venison, 31 gravy for game or fowl, 29 green, for boiled chicken, 29 green, for ducklings, 28 for wild ducks, 28 haohde, 26 ham, 27 Hanoverian, 19 horse-radish, 30 Italian, 27 lemon, for boiled fowl or rabbit, 28 maitre d’hdtel maigre, 27 mushroom gravy, 30 onion, 29 piquante, 26, 27 poivrade, 29 poulette, 26 puree of sorrel, 29 relishing, for broiled bones, chicken, or fish, 28 remoulade or vinaigrette, 21 royal, 28172 INDEX Sauce, hot, Tarragon, 30 tomato, 27 tournde, 25 truffle, 27 velout6, 25 white, for chicken, veal, or vegetables, 26 white roux, 24 Sauces for fish, 31 Sausages, beef, 67 pork, 67 veal, 67 Savouries, 152 Savoury eggs, 155 Savoy biscuit or cakes, 123 Scollops of fowl & l’essence des con- combres, 54 Scones, barley-meal, 123 Scotch fish soup, 17 Seakale with cheese, 150 Seville orange syrup, 129 Shallot vinegar, 23 Sheep’s head broth, 12 pie (Scotch), 63 and trotters, to pre- pare, 12 Short cakes, 124 Shrimps, buttered, 154 fricassee of, 154 Smelts aux anchois et capres, 36 pickled, 42 Sole fillets, 151 Sole, fillets k l’orlie, 36 sauce for, 32, 33 Soles a la menuistere, 38 au gratin, 39 saut6 a la ravigote, 38 Sorrel sauce, 29 stewed, 75 to dress, 75 Souffl6, 97 au riz, 98 cream, 97 de fecule de pomme de terre, 98 omelette, 98 ramequins, 87 Soup k la Flamande, 15 & la Melton Mombray, 16 k la pur6e de lentilles, 15 bouillabaise k l’Anglaise, 18 bouillabaise, k Marseilles re- ceipt, 17 Soup, cock-a-leekie, 12 cod’s head, 17 fish (Scotch), 17 for the poor, 134 an excellent, 135 a nourishing, 134 fowl, 138 friar’s chicken, clear, 13 friar’s chicken, lie or thick, 13 hare, 14 hotch-potch, 12 knuckle of veal and rice, 13 maigre, 15 white, 16 moorfowl, 14 mulligatawny, 14 oyster, 18 puree of green peas, 15 partridge or pheasant, 138 pea, 135 pork, 138 pot au feu, 11 potato, 13 Rumford, 134 salmon, 16 tomato, 151 turnip, 15 veal, 138 white celery, 15 Spanish fritters, 103 Spinach juice for greening, 16 to dress, 76 Sponge-cake, 123 pudding, 93 Sponge jelly, 110 Sportsman’s broth, 14 Sprats, pickled, 42 Steaks, dressed, 150 Steak, rump, 151 stuffed, 150 sauce for, 30 Stew for the poor, 135 Stock for fish soup, 16 Strawberry cream, 113 gateafi, 160 jelly, 111 salad, 160 toasts, 103 Strawberries preserved whole, 133 water ice, 115 Sugar biscuit, 124 for ice, to clarify, 11517i3 INDEX Sugar, to clarify for preserving, 126 Sunday pudding, 94 Sundries, 158 Sweetbreads, roast, 65 Syrup, black currant, 130 Seville orange, 129 Tapioca pudding, 90 poor man’s, 90 Tarragon sauce, 30 vinegar, 23 Tart-crust to cover a dish, 106 custard, 107 orange, 108 raspberry, a la creme, 108 Tea, green, ice-cream, 116 Teal sauce, 28 Tench, boiled, 37 stewed, 37 Tedworth Albert pudding, 93 Tendons de veau a la ravigote, 62 Timbales of eggs au jus de perdrix, 85 Toast and water, 140 Toasts, 103 strawberry, 103 pineapple, 103 Tomato ketchup, 24 sauce, 27 to keep, 27 Spanish receipt, 27 toast, 156 Tomatoes, 78 au jus, 79 farcies, 78, 156 stewed, 79 Tournee sauce, 25 Tripe a la Lyonnaise, 66 gratin of, 66 sauce h la, 30 stewed, 66 Trout, potted, 44 stewed, 37 Truffle sauce, 27 Truffles au vin de champagne, 80 maigre, 80 to dress, 80 Turbot, good way to dress, 36 sauce for, 33 see also, 147 Turkey, aux truffes, 54 fillets, 56 Turkey galantine, 158 legs, 55 rotie parfaite, 55 Turnip soup, 15 Turnips, glace au sucre, 72 mashed, 71 Veal, blanquette of, k la Paysanne, 62 broth, 136 cake (cold), 62 cold, to dress, 53 cutlets, 62 sauce for, 30 forcemeat, 67 gravy, 25 kidneys, 89 minced, 151 pie, 63 and rice soup, 13 sausages, 67 soup or jelly, 138 tendons a la ravigote, 62 Vegetable marrow, 77 Vegetables, of preserving, 82 chartreuse of, 72 macedoine of, 73 Veloute sauce, 25 Velvet cream, 114 Venison, hashed, 50 sauce, 31 Vermicelli pudding, 92 Vinegar for salads, 24 ‘ Volage ’ sauce, 23 Watebcresses, stewed, Cornish re- ceipt, 76 Water souche, 36 Weak digestion, for a, 142 cordial, for the, 143 Welsh rarebit, 157 Whigs, 120 Whitebait, fried, 38 White puddings, 67 White sauce for chicken, veal, or vegetable, 26 Whitings a la prevoyante, 34 a ITtalienne, 34, 39 as in Scotland, 34 fried fillets of, 35 in sauce, 35 Wine sauce, 106 white, whey, 142INDEX 174 Woodcock salmi, 57 Woodcock, Scotch, 152 Wynne’s, Sir Watkin, pudding, 94 Yeast, an excellent, 117 to clarify, 118 Yeast, Yorkshire method of making, 117 Yorkshire cakes, 123 pudding, 92 Zweibach, 105 THE END. PSII'TED BY epoTTISWOODE AND CO. LTD., COLCHESTER LONDON AND ETON175 ■■ —— POPULAR 1/- NET COOKERY BOOKS What shall we have for Breakfast ? or, Everybody’s Breakfast Book. Containing over 173 Recipes. By Agnes C. Maitland. The Afternoon Tea Book. How to make Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cake ;, Scones, Rolls, Sand- wiches, Cooling Drinks, and Ices. By Agnes C. Maitland. The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use. By Agnes C. Maitland Toothsome Dishes : Fish, Flesh, and Fowl; Soups, Sauces, and Sweets. Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with Household Hints and other Useful Information. Edited by Carrie Davenport. Cookery for Invalids and others. By Lizzie Heritage, First-class Diplom6e and Medallist in Cookery and Domestic Economy. The Housewife’s Handy-book : a Still-Room Book. Three Hundred and Fifty Useful Everyday Recipes. By C. J. S. Thompson. Drinks of all Kinds, Hot and Cold, for all Seasons (including Temperance and Restorative Dyinks). By Frederick and Seymour Davies. Postage 3 d. per copy. LONDON: JOHN HOGG 13 PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.THE ARTISTIC CRAFTS 176 SERIES BOOKBINDING AND THE CARE OF BOOKS. By DOUGLAS COCKERELL. Third Edition. 122 Drawings by NOEL ROOKE. 8 Pages Collotype Reproductions. 352 pp. 5s. net. Extract from The Times. "... A capital proof of the reasoned thoroughness in workman- ship, which is the first article in the creed of those who . . . are attempting to carry into practice the industrial teaching of Ruskin and William Morris.” SILVERWORK AND JEWELLERY. By H. WILSON. Second Edition. 182 Diagrams by the Author. 16 Pages of Collotype Repro- ductions. 348 pp. 5s. net. Extract from The Scotsman. •*. . . Admirably illustrated, well written and practically service- able, the book should prove welcome alike to craftsmen and to amateurs. ... A valuable addition to the Series.” JOHN HOGG, 13 Paternoster Row, London See following pages.THE ARTISTIC CRAFTS 177 SERIES WOODCARVING : DESIGN AND WORK- MANSHIP. By GEORGE JACK. 79 Drawings by the Author. 16 Pages of Collotype Reproductions. 320 pp. 5s* net* Extract from The Builders' Journal. “ Undoubtedly the best guide to Woodcarving extant. ... A practical work, written with clearness and literary power by a practical man ... of great artistic talent. . . . The illustrations are excellent.” STAINED GLASS WORK. By C. W. WHALL. 73 Diagrams by Two of His Ap- prentices. 16 Pages of Collotype Reproductions. 392 pp. 5s. net. Extract from The Scotsman. "It provides an exposition at once instructive and interesting of the workshop practice of the craft ... of Stained Glass, animated throughout by an encouraging and cheerful sense of the dignity and the elevating influence of such an occupation.” JOHN HOGG, 13 Paternoster Row, LondonTHE ARTISTIC CRAFTS 178 SERIES EMBROIDERY AND TAPESTRY WEAV- ING. By Mrs. A. H. CHRISTIE. Second Edition. 178 Diagrams and Illustrations by the Author. 16 Pages of Collotype Reproductions. 320 pp. 6s. net. Extract from The Pall Mall Gazette. “ Mrs. Christie has performed her task to admiration, . . . and her lucid explanations of various kinds of stitches . . . should be of value to all workers at embroidery or tapestry weaving and to novices anxious to learn. ” WRITING AND ILLUMINATING, AND LETTERING. By EDWARD JOHN- STON. Third Edition. 227 Illustrations and Diagrams by the Author and NOEL ROOKE. 8 Pages of Examples in Red and Black. 24 Pages of Collotype Reproductions. 512 pp. Extract from The Athenceum. "... This book belongs to that extremely rare class in which every line bears the impress of complete mastery of the subject. We con- gratulate Mr. Johnston ou having produced a work at once original and complete.” JOHN HOGG, 13 Paternoster Row, London See next page.THE ARTISTIC CRAFTS 179 SERIES HAND-LOOM WEAVING. By LUTHER HOOPER. 125 Drawings by the Author and NOEL ROOKE. Coloured and Collotype Reproductions. 368 pp. 6s. net. Extract from The Morning Post. “. . . Every phase and process in weaving is described with so clear and careful an exactitude, that, helped as the text is by the Author's sketches and diagrams, the reader should have no difficulty in conquering with its aid the rudiments of the craft." PORTFOLIOS (in the Series) already issued. SCHOOL COPIES AND EXAMPLES. Selected by W. R. LETHABY and A. H. CHRISTIE. 12 Drawing Copies (1 in colours), with Descriptive Letterpress. 3s. 6d. net. MANUSCRIPT AND INSCRIPTION LETTERS. For Schools and Classes and the Use of Craftsmen. By EDWARD JOHN- STON. With 5 Plates by A. E. R. GILL, 16 Plates in all. Full Notes and Descriptions by the Author. 3s. 6d. net. Other Volumes and Portfolios in Preparation. JOHN HOGG, 13 Paternoster Row, London\\XftHiWwaQnnpt..tniiiiM tin .uni null... IMU..!,.! POPULAR 1/- NET COOKERY BOOKS What shall we have for Breakfast ? I or. Everybody’s Breakfast Book. Containing over 175 Recipes. By Agnes C. Maitland. a File Afternoon Tea Book. How to make Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Rolls, Sand- wiches, Cooling Drinks, and Ices. By Agnes C. Maitland. The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use. By Agnes C. Maitland Toothsome Dishes : Fish, Flesh, and Fowl; Soups, Sauces, and Sweets. Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with Household Hints and other Useful Information. Edited by Carrie Davenport. Cookery for Invalids and others. By Lizzie Heritage, First-class Diplomde and Medallist in Cookery and Domestic Economy. The Housewife's Handy-book : a Still-Room Book. Three Hundred and Fifty Useful Everyday Recipes. By C. J. S. Thompson. Drinks of all Kinds, Hot and Cold, for all Seasons (including Temperance and Restorative Drinks). By Frederick and Seymour Davies. Poitagt id. ftr tfipy. LONDON: JOHN HOGG 13 PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.