APPENDIX TO KNOX'S ANATOMICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL MEMOIRS. CONTENTS: I. OBSERVATIONS ON THE TiENIA SOLIUM. II. I'HYSIOLOGICAL INQUIRY INTO THE NATURAL HISTORY OF THE HUMAN PULSE.As the two following Papers, and more especially the second, have been so frequently referred to in my Anato- mical and Physiological Memoirs, I have thought it might be convenient for the reader to have them printed as an Appendix to No. 1st. They originally appeared in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal; the memoir on- the Taenia in 1821, and that on the Differential Pulse and its diurnal revolution in 1815. ROBERT KNOX. May 1, 1837.OBSEEVATIONS ON THE TiENIA SOLIUM; AND ON ITS REMOVAL FROM THE HUMAN INTESTINAL CANAL BY SPIRITS OF TURPENTINE. Since the publication of the learned and elaborate work of Rudolphi on intestinal and other worms,* the numerous disputed points relative to the origin, growth, and propagation of these, seem to have been tacitly given up by medical men in favour of the opinions of that learned and ingenious author; or the inquiry, perhaps, has, from its abstruseness, been deemed beyond the present bounds of science. To the admirers of natural history, it would be superfluous to offer any apology for these brief remarks on one species of intestinal worm ; and to the practical medical man, few inquiries can be more interesting, as its aim is to elucidate the origin and treatment of an exceed- ingly obscure and untractable complaint. It has happened to me to witness the disease of tape-worm on an extensive scale, and even, to a certain extent, to experiment on its nature. The observations I have made seem to throw some additional light on this very obscure subject. Should it appear differently to the readers of your widely circulated Journal, I shall still feel satisfied in having performed my duty to science, by submitting these cases and remarks to the public. The colony of the Cape of Good Hope is remarkable for the general salubrity of its climate. It enjoys, indeed, almost an immunity from the host of diseases to which, in other countries, mankind is exposed; to this there are a few exceptions, amongst • Entozoomm, sive Vermium Intcstinalium Historia Naturalis. Auc- tore C. A. Rudolphi..6 Observations on the Teenia Solium. .which may be reckoned the occasional prevalence of tape-worm. It was long ago remarked by Dr Sparrman, that the colonists, or more particularly those inhabiting the banks of the great Fish River, " had very little knowledge of one of the most frequent and most troublesome disorders to which they were subject, and that was worms."* He observes, moreover, " that adults, and even elderly persons, seemed more generally troubled with the complaint than children." This so great frequency of the disease amongst the colonists I have never observed, nor was my attention directed towards this subject, previous to October, 1819, when tape-worm became so general amongst the troops as to resemble an epidemic. The greater part of these .men had just returned from a short though active campaign of a few weeks ; they had been exposed to some rainy weather, and had remained for a short time encamped on the open field ; yet these circumstances were productive of no sickness, nor did any ailment occur, excepting the singular prevalence of intestinal worms, and more particularly of Teenia Solium. There are a few general observations which it may be useful to mention, previous to entering on the more detailed account of cases and remarks. The disease was not confined to any particular class or rank; intestinal worms, of one or other species, attacked as well those enjoying every possible comfort, as those exposed to all privations ; they spared neither the young nor old, temperate nor debauched, male nor female. Of the troops employed on the eastern bank of the great Fish River, the proportion of those who became affected with worms, to those who escaped this troublesome complaint, appeared to me about two to five; the ratio of those who remained in the colony differed from the preceding, and probably did not exceed one to four. The Teenia Solium and other worms, more especially Ascarides lumbricoides, appeared, Jbr the first time, in most of the individuals attacked ; they were almost all, without exception, healthy young men, accustomed to much exercise, constant discipline, and regular habits. The greater number of the individuals affected could not remember ever having passed worms, even from their earliest infancy to the period of their attack in 1819. Intestinal worms were passed at this time by men who had lived several years in the colony, and who had not previously been afflicted with them. In one case the gentleman had been nine years in the colony before the attack of the disease. I " Sparrman's Travels, vol. ii. p. I27.ObservatioJis on the Tcenia Solium. CASES AND OBSERVATIONS. Case I. — Of a detachment consisting of about 86 men, 38 «were found, on inquiry, to be affected with worms; of this -number, two had the Ascarides lumbricoides, and the remainder TcBnia Solium. The detachment was composed of young 'healthy men, previous to the appearance of the worms. Those affected became, generall}' speaking, emaciated and weak, low- spirited, pale, and unhealth3% They laboured under other symptoms, which will be more particularly described in a future case. The cure of all who chose to adopt the means was easily effected by small doses of the spirits of turpentine, after the failure of purgatives and various other remedies. Case II One of the above mentioned detachment, whose name I think was Gardiner, had resorted to a variety of methods in order to rid himself of so troublesome a complaint, Jbut ineffectually. He had restricted himself entirely to a milk diet for about three weeks, with the efltect of arresting the growth of the tcenia, as few or none of the detached joints appeared in his stools during the continuance of this regimen; they reappeared immediately on his returning to the use of animal food. The spirits of turpentine were prescribed for him, in the dose of two drachms morning and evening. He, almost immediately after, voided by stool a portion of a t&nia, consist- ing of about 240 distinct joints, each about three-fourths of an inch in length ; the unpleasant harassing symptoms which gene- rally accompany the presence of tcBnia in the human body immediately left him, and did not return. Case III,—A middle-aged man (a half-pay officer) had been affected with tcenia for eight years, during which long period, an incredible quantity of drugs had been prescribed for the complaint, and taken without any permanent advantage. He had been under the care of several medical men, and his consti- tution was greatly impaired. During these eight years, he had been in the constant habit of passing detached joints of the Tcenia Solivm by stool^ in great quantities, and his existence had become, in consequence of this and other complaints, truly miserable. Two drachms of spirits of turpentine in a little water were taken twice a-day, for four successive days. Pie now passed the tcenia in large connected masses ; the symptoms of disease disappeared, and his health returned. Case IV In this case, also an officer, the tcenia appeared suddenly, whilst the individual enjoyed perfect health. He had never passed any worms previous to the present attack. The symptoms, as in most others, were acute headach, dyspnoea, detixl breath, grinding of the teeth, constant itching of the8 Observations on the Taenia Solium. nostrils, stiffness of the lovver jaw, sensation of pain in the tem- poral muscles, increased flow of saliva, sickness and pain of stomach, pains in the chest and bowels, slight tenesmus, pale- ness, general debility, emaciation. The complaint was observed to be much aggravated by the use.of animal food, and a vegfct- able diet was found effectual in repressing the growth of the tcenia, but did not succeed in removing the disease. A powerful dose of jalap and calomel was prescribed, with the view of expelling, at least, the detached joints of the tcenia, if not the worm itself. It proved useless in either way, for it neither expelled the worm entire, nor any of its detached joints. The cure was finally effected by the spirits of turpentine. It would be tedious to enumerate more of the cases which occurred, as they bear to each other so close a resemblance; but there are circumstances regarding the action of the remedy employed, and the exciting cause of the complaint, which merit minute discussion. It has been generally allowed by medical writers, that there is scarcely any part of medical science more obscure than the origin of intestinal worms. The works of the ancients contain no accurate observations on this interesting point, and the labours of later authors tended only for some time to involve the subject more and more in obscurity and error. Much was to be expected from the exertions of the natural historian, and from the aid of the microscope in the hands of men of science, accustomed to habits of correct observation, and to the impartial investigation of nature. This class of men has done much towards elucidating the nature of intestinal worms, or, speaking more generally, of entozoa, the name by which worms living within other animal bodies are distinguished. But great diffi- culties remain to be overcome, and the opinions maintained by the most accurate writer on this subject, (Rudolphi,) appear to me quite untenable. A simple enumeration of the various causes which have been assigned for the production of intestinal and other worms, would convince an impartial reader, that such were inadequate to produce the effect, and were supported by men who did not give credit to their own doctrines. The extreme difficulty attending such investigations will be made manifest by remark- ing, that the so justly celebrated Linne entertained notions regarding the origin, habits, and growth of tania, which Pallas and Rudolphi have since proved to be entirely erroneous. It is unnecessary here to discuss the opinions of a host of writers so ably combated and refuted by these authors. It seems pre- ferable rather to inquire into the causes which gave rise toObservations on the Taenia Solium. 9 intestinal worms, in so great a number of otherwise healthy individuals, — an inquiry fraught with interest to the medical practitioner ; since next to the removing disease when present, the most important subject for investigation is its exciting cause. The best authors have remarked, that, for the production of intestinal worms, a certain predisposition of the body is neces- sary, which foreign writers call a " diathesis verminosa" and sometimes a " dispositio verminosa corporis." This they describe as originating in scanty, unwholesome vegetable diet, and hence the frequency of intestinal worms amongst the poor; but they also assert, that debility, from whatever cause arising, may give origin to the same complaints. In confirmation of these opinions, they remark, that the inhabitants of low marshy countries, as Holland, are more subject than others to intestinal worms. All preceding theories having been disproved by minute microsco- pical inquiry, naturalists have admitted the preceding statements, and explained the generation of worms in the human body, by a process totally dissimilar to what is known to take place in the production of all other animals, and somewhat resembling the growth of mushrooms, from a compost employed for that express purpose. Nor do the careful expressions of Rudolphi diminish the difficulty, or explain away the absurdities attending the admission of such an hypothesis. " Organic particles," he observes, " are required for the production of entozoa, in the same manner as we find the classes of animals called infusoria, and phytozoa, and some fungi, are produced." In parts, he farther observes, which have been organized, {jpartibus organicis,^ as well animal as vegetable, and which have been macerated in water for some time, innumerable animalcules called infusoria are known to arise, and to be produced by a process not unlike putrefaction. It is with diffidence that I offer, in opposition to the opinions of such accurate observers of nature, the following objections : Debility presents itself to the medical practitioner daily in a hundred forms, without being accompanied by intestinal or other worms. On the contrary, these appear in the strongest constitutions, particularly exemplified by the cases detailed at the commencement of these remarks. The individuals alluded to were, with few exceptions, young, healthy, active men. The climate of the Cape is remarkably dry, forming, as it were, the counterpart^f Holland; and Hasselquist* says of Egypt, that the inhabitants are much afflicted with tape-worm, a practitioner in Cairo assuring him, that two-thirds of the inhabitants of that ♦ lliissclqiiist's Voyages and Travels, p. 386.Observations on tiic Tcenia Solium. 40 £ity were afflicted with tbeni. Moisture, therefore, can liave little effect in the production of tamia. Neither can a vegetable diet be blamed for its production, since many months had elapsed during which vegetables, bread excepted, formed no part of the diet of any of the ijidividuals alluded to in the preceding cases. As tania and other worms are occasionally found in fish, some writers have asserted that they are thus transferred to the human frame. The observations of naturalists have shewn, that the tccn'm observed in fish and man differ essentially ; and in addition, it may be remarked, that of the hundreds whom I have known to be affected with tcenia, none had tasted fish for the period of at least six months previous to the appearance of the worms, and many not for years. It remains, therefore, to be explained, how so many, young, healthy, active men, became suddenly affected with tcenia, for assuredly no theory hitherto offered on the subject of intestinal worms throws any light on their origin in tlie present instance. From the disturbance worms generally create in the human frame, we should be inclined to adopt the conclusion, very different from that of preceding writers, arPd forming almost an exact counterpart, namely, " That intestinal worms are not natural to man." This opinion is confirmed by the constant efforts nature makes to throw off the disease, — efforts more or less obvious in different individuals, but perhaps existing in all. The Filaria medinensis has been classed with the entozoa, though several writers allow that it naturally exists in the wells and rivers of warm countries. Intestinal worms are introduced into the human frame mixed with the food or drink, and, finding in the intestines an apt place for their existence, they there live and thrive ; but the}- do not arise from a weak and injured digestion, and a con- sequent combination of matter capable of converting itself into intestinal worms.* Were we satisfied with such explanations, the origin of man, and all other animals, would be readily accounted for, from " a peculiar arrangement and combination of organic molecules placed under peculiar circumstances;" the story of the serpent Pytlion would be no longer a fable. Perhaps the strongest objection hitherto offered to the opinion, that entozoa are not generated within the bodies of man and other animals, but are transferred to them through the medium of the higesta, arises from the fact, well ascertained, that intestinal and other worms have nowhere been found excepting within the viscera of other animals. But to this it * " Dissimilatio vermes gignit. " Vermes ex dissimilntionis proeessu in corpora animali debilitato .■obtiiicnte oriri statuit " RuDOLrn.i-Observations on the Tania Solium. li \nay be observed, that the repeated errors committed by microscopical observers have brought this mode of observing natural phenomena into a certain degree of disrepute. The indefinite nature of the theory supported by late vi^riters, that entozoa are generated within the viscera of man by a process our food undergoes when not properly digested, has retarded the advancement of knowledge relative to these animals. It has done worse : it has prevented minute inquiry into the immediate exciting cause of intestinal worms, into the particular article of food which more immediately produces them ; and it has spread widely a few vague notions, that unwholesome coarse food, whether animal or vegetable, when introduced into a weakened stomach, will at all times give rise to the disease of worms. It seems of importance, therefore, to reduce the subject to a few determinate points, and, by subjecting the inquiry to a stricter analysis, enable succeeding observers readily to prove or confute the existing theory. It may, I think, be admitted, that intestinal worms (or the matter capable of producing them) can be introduced into the viscera of man and other animals only with the food or drink. That they do not arise from the latter, may be conjectured from the following fact, that individuals using, for a series of years, water drawn from the same sources, have not been afflicted with taenia or other worms ; nor did these appear until other causes, to which, with more probability, they might be referred, were also present. The cases of tcenia detailed in the commencement of this paper, occurred in a body of active healthy young men, subjected to the same discipline and privations, and using, with few or no exceptions, the same sort of food and drink. These circum- stances merit peculiarly the notice of the professional reader, as it seldom happens that an experiment (for such it seems to me) can be made so extensively in civil life, where the habits of no two individuals resemble each other, — where the food and exercise of the sick are submitted to no precise rules, — and the dissimilarity in age, constitution, and previous habits of life, renders all general conclusions necessarily incorrect. In men situated as our troops were in this short campai<^n, we must look to some general exciting cause of disease, the explanations hitherto offered of individual cases being totally inapplicable. The food of these men (for to it we must ulti- mately refer the disease) consisted of unwholesome meat, the flesh of overdriven, starved, jlhd unhealthy oxen, reduced often to a mere skeleton, by fatigue, want of food, and exposure to the cold rains, which are observed to sicken and destroy most of the horned cattle and sheep which have not preserved theirObservations on the Taenia Solium. 12 condition throughout the winter. The use of this sort of food, from peculiar circumstances, was unavoidable. I shall not here dispute the point, whether the tcenice were transferred, as com- pletely formed animals, from the unwholesome and diseased meat, to the stomach and intestines of man, or are there gene- rated ; it is suflBcient to have established the point, that they arise from the use of unwholesome animal food, — from the flesh of animals which have been diseased. I have avoided, as much as possible, detailing any minute facts regarding the natural history of tcenia, and other intes- tinal worms, supposing most practitioners in medicine to be acquainted with the XeadXng phenomena of these animals- The following brief remarks I therefore submit to the naturalist, and claim his indulgence for any trifling error which may occur. Various ridiculous opinions were formerly entertained re- garding that variety of ttenia called Solium, most of which have been successfully combated by the ingenious and accurate Rudolphi. It is now known that four individuals of the species Tcenia Solium have been discharged by the same patient; hence the obvious impropriety of the name. The theory for- merly upheld, regarding the indefinite growth of joints to supply the place of those detached from the body of the tcenia, and passed by stool, has been rendered exceedingly doubtful. The Tcenia Solium seems to be regenerated rather by an evolution of joints already existing, or by the production of new joints near that extremity of the worm where naturalists have proved the head to be placed. It is probable, therefore, that Rudolphi may be correct, when he states, that the joints of the Tcenia Solium do not increase in number, but in length ; or we may assent to the opinion of Pallas, who seems to think that there may be a reproduction of joints towards the head extremity of the animal.* It'is no longer disputed by naturalists, that in the small perfect Tcenia Solium there are constantly found a distinct head and tail joint, which is not perforated by any vessel or tube; but as the animal, when suffered to come to maturity, secrete joints in great numbers, which pass off with the fences, it is obvious, should the_' observations of naturalists be correct, that the tail joint must jirsthe detached, and unless regenerated at a future period, ought never afterwards to be found in the animal. This difliculty has been slightly touched on by preced- ing writers. It seems to prove that the longevity of the animal is considerable, and that its original habits must have become * It is a remarkable fact, that no well authentirnted case exists of worms being found in the intestines of the foetus or infiuit at tlic breast.Observations on the Tania Solium. 13 altered by residing in the human intestines, for the secretion of the tail joint can hardly be considered as a natural process. A change of localities is observed to exert a certain though limited influence even over man and the class mammalia ; but over animals of obscure vitality, and over the vegetable world, (to which entozoa bear close resemblance, the power of external agents knows no limits. By a change in their place of abode, by the slightest change of climate, or culture, they not unfre- quently become so remarkably different from their original or parent stock, as with difficulty to be recognized. Hence it probably happens that the tcenia has never been detected but in the intestines of man and other animals. Intestinal worms infest graminivorous quadrupeds, and parti- cularly the horse. They appear generally during winter, and quit him as soon as he is permitted to regain his flesh and strength on the spring pastures. * The presence of worms in the intestinal canal of man maybe suspected when a few of the symptoms already enumerated are present; nor ought the prac- titioner to doubt the correctness of his diagnostic, on finding that a few doses of a purgative medicine do not bring off worms by stool. The Tcenia Solium will betray its presence in the intestines by the separation and discharge of distinct joints. When other varieties of tcBnia are suspected, the patient ought to have recourse to anthelmintics. The dyspnoea occasioned by the Tcenia Solium is a remarkable symptom, and may in some cases lead to an early detection of the complaint; but the superabundant secretion of saliva is connected with many disorders of the frame, and cannot be deemed a test either of the presence of worms, or of the recent use of mercury, but rather as a symptom of general bad health. A variety of drugs and methods have been recommended for the expulsion of tcenice and other entozoa from the intestines of man ; these may be reduced to three heads. \st. Mechanical remedies, as pulvis stanni; large doses of aloes taken in the form of pill, (which have been known to expel tcenioB from the intestines,) probably act in the same way. This method sometimes succeeds, but is exceedingly uncertain* 2dly. Drastic purgative medicines which occasionally are found successful in expelling the tcenia, but whose operation is attended with disagreeable symptoms, and not unfrequently irreparable injury to the constitution. Milder purgatives are often exhibited, preceded by hitters and aromatics. Mhj, Anthelmintics or drugs which destroy intestinal worms, * When young sweet grass cannot be obtained, the worms are generally expelled by a dose or two of melted fat, taken from the tail of the Cape sheep.Observations on the Tcenia Solium. 14 by being inimical to their vitality. Of these, the most effica- cious is spirits of turpentine, given either alone, or compounded with empyrouniatic animal oil, as in the celebrated preparation of Chabert. 1 have generally found, that from one or two drachms of ol. terebinth, given in a little water, morning and evening, for three successive day%, were sufficient to destroy the Teeniti Solium, (even in the most obstinate cases,) and cause it to leave the intestines without the aid of any purgative medicine. The practice, however, of exhibiting a little castor oil about noon of each day, is unobjectionable, and may bo useful, as the turpentine never purges the patients. The narcotic effects produced by turpentine on tanics and other worms may be judged of by the fact, ^ascertained by several experiments,) that when one drachm only has been taken, and the patient has declined continuing its use, an immediate stop is put to the secretion of separate joints by the tcBuia; the vigour of the worm is destroyed; it sickens, and in proportion to its unhealthy state, does the patient regain his health and strength. Should the turpentine not be repeated, the worm recovers slowly, and after the lapse of an uncertain period, (two or three weeks,) the usual secretion of joints recommences. A Targe dose of spirits of turpentine, (from four to eight drachms,) produced in many patients unpleasant symptoms, such as intense headach, vertigo, and a confusion of ideas, amounting to temporary delirium. Neither wine nor spirits should be drank during the use of turpentine, lest strangury be produced, tood ought to be avoided on the mornings of using the medi- cine, nor should any be taken in the evening. The turpentine lias been found most rapid in its effects, when taken about 8 or 9 A.M. Oil of turpentine has been used with success in cases of tcenia on the Continent, and more particularly in Germany, for at least fifty years. To it the celebrated preparation of Chabert owes its remarkable efficacy. Ascarides vermiculares are easily expelled by the same drug; and it is probable that no intestinal worm will remain in the intestines, if the system be kept under the influence of oil of turpentine for a few days. Many alarming symptoms have been known to arise from the presence of worms in the intestinal canal, particularly nervous disorders, as epilepsy and convulsions. It is not improbable that chorea may often depend on the presence of worms in the intestines, and its removal by the continued use of purgative medicines would seem to confirm this conjecture. I have seen a high degree of nervousness existing in many patients affected with worms, and have found that this nervous state disappeared with the removal of the exciting cause. March 16, 1821.PHYSIOLOGICAL INQUIRY INTO THE NATURAL HISTORY OF THE HUMAN PULSE. On the Relation subsisting hetwe^ the Time of the Day and various Ftmctions of the Human Body; and on the Manner in which the Pulsations of the Heart and Arteriea are affected by Muscular Exertion. To the Editor of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical^ Journal. Sir,—I have ventured to submit to you for your approbation some observations and experiments on a subject, which, for some time, has occupied a considerable share of my attention. The matter itself will, perhaps, at first sight, appear to many rather curious, than interesting or useful. But it ought to be remembered that observations, in themselves apparently of little direct importance, have, in the progress of time, beenTound much to benefit science. I may here briefly mention the circumstances which first in- duced me to investigate opinions, to the correctness of which so' many had unlimitedly subscribed. Annoyed like others with the interminable disputes concerning the stimulant and sedative powers of foxglove, I resolved to make a few experiments on that celebrated drug. A variety of perplexing circumstances soon convinced me of the necessity there was, correctly to ascertain the various conditions of the healthy pulse, particularly16 Observations on the as regards muscular exertion, diet, &c. This knowledge, how- ever, I found was not to be attained in a short time, nor without considerable labour. Contrary to my expectations, that which I deemed of minor importance, or merely preparatory to other researches, became an extended subject of inquiry. Whilst conducting the experiments about to be related, I have often almost despaired of reducing to general laws the endless variety which the functions of the animal economy pre- sent to every observer. But remarking, amidst this seemingly inextricable confusion, a certain degree of regularity, I was induced and encouraged to prosecute the inquiry, convinced that we ought never to disregard those signs of order which nature manifests, whether they regard animate or inanimate beings. It is almost needless for me to observe, that every precaution has been taken to avoid error. If, throughout the essay, this desirable object be attained, it is principally attributable to the assistance of my friend Dr James Thomson, continued with unremitting zeal and friendship, during a course of experiments both tedious and delicate.* Section I. \st, When we recollect that it is during the course of the day that all those circumstances, which tend to accelerate the pulse, are generally combined and present, the proposition that the morning pulse of a person enjoying health is quicker than the evening one, must seem almost a paradox; at all events, so hostile to what appears probable or plausible, that the clearest evidence of its truth must be brought forward before we could expect to gain a single proselyte to this opinion. In detailing the results of my observations and experiments on this subject, a certain degree of licence is necessarily made use of> which, however, does not at all affect the conclusions I have drawn. In these experiments, it is not proposed to submit the functions of the body to rigorous calculation. In physiology, as well as in medicine, a near approximation to the truth is the only rational end we can possibly propose. Numbers are used, both because they render our ideas more precise, and cause to • The subject of the experiments is about 22 years of age, of a moderate height, and somewhat muscular; his constitution may be called irritable,— by which is meant only, that it is easily excited by stimulants of almost every kind. He has not laboured under any serious indisposition for a great number of years, nor is he conscious of any hereditary or acquired tendency to disease in any organ.Diurnal Bevolutions of the Pulse. 17 be distinctly perceived the limits to which we should wish to extend these doctrines. The variation in different individuals inust necessarily be immense;—for that the candid will make proper allowance. Dr Gullen (whose name is not merely celebrated, but vene- rated in medical science) talked of a natural accelei^tion of the pulse, which, according to him, happens twice a-day, and resembles, in a distant manner, a febrile paroxysm. Now, amidst many hundred experiments, performed under a great variety of circumstances, I could never perceive any such phe- nomenon. The time of the day at which the first spontaneous acceleration is supposed to happen, is noon. My own pulse never shewed any symptoms of such acceleration, but, on the contrary, always diminished in velocity. Thus, Ex. 11, A.M. . . Pulse 72 12, noon, .... 71 1, P.M. ... 63 Half past 1, P.M. . . 64 The other paroxysm, according to the same author, occurs in the afternoon, and that, too, totally independent of any excite- ment by food, &c. This opinion is equally erroneous with tlie former. Ex. S, p. M. Pulse 68 4, . .66 5, . .64 6, . .62 Ex. Half past 3, p. m. Pulse 67 Half past 4, p. m. 67 5, p. M. . . 64 Half past 5, . .63 6, p. M. ^ . . 63 Half past 6, Pulse 62 7, p. M. . . 62 Half past 7, . .60 8, p. M. . . 58 These experiments are in direct opposition to the statements of CuUen; yet, whoever carefully peruses that author's works, more anxious to discover truth than, by partial views and mis- representations, to detect contradictions, will be convinced that Cullen's notions are partly just and partly erroneous; that delicate and accurate observation is blended throughout with supposition, assertion, and hypothesis. 2d, This quickness of the arterial pulsations, observable in the morning, is at present very generally disbelieved; yet nothing can be more easy than to ascertain the fact experimen- tally. Perhaps the following instances, taken at random from a great number of others, may go far to settle the point. In the18 Observations on the following Table the pulse was reckoned in the sitting posture, (this is always to be understood, unless the contrary be ex- pressed) before breakfast, and a short time after rising from bed; and, in the evening, after a light supper, and generally some spirituous liquor, taken, however, in small quantity, and much diluted. The power of alcohol in raising the pulse is well known. The period is the summer time. TABtE. About 9, A, M. About 12, p. m. 68 68 63 63 65 74 70 70 68 70 62 66 68 69 61 62 67 65 59 63 62 70 63 72 70 71 «2 72 70 68 61 72 64 76 66 62 The averag'e result of these The average is 64.88. is 68.5 To render the result of this table the more striking, it is necessary for me to point out a few circumstances, to which considerable attention ought to be paid. In the morning, the pulse was reckoned immediately almost on rising from bed, and always before food of any kind was taken. Every circumstance, therefore, conspired to reduce the pulse. On the other hand, the evening pulse was reckoned after the many exertions under- gone during a long day,—after exercise of mind and body,— after food and drink; the pulse is, notwithstanding, consider- ably less frequent than in the morning, when every thing favourable to a rapid state of the circulation was carefully guarded against. But the pulse is not only in general quicker in the morning than in the evening ; it is also more excitable ; i. e. the same quantity of food or drink, the same degree of exercise, sTiall be found to exalt the pulse more in the morning than at any other period of the day or night; and the capability of being excited may, generally speaking, be said to diminish from a very early hour until the same hour next morning. The data on which this assertion rests are pretty numerous, though Bot so complete as I could have wished them to be. To accomplish this, would have required a complete change of my mode of life, which I found at the time impracticable.Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 19 TABLE Sliewing the different states of the pulse, as reckoned at three different periods of the day, viz. after breakfast, dinner, and supper. The experiment was made during summer. After dinner, before 5, p. M. After breakfast, always before 10, a. m. Evening, between 10 and 12, p. m. geaerally near 12. Pulse 63 70 62 61 59 62 63 63 68 70 76 68 60 63 59 62 66 62 Average 64.388, &c. Pulse 66 Pulse 68 68 71 69 73 66 69 69 71 69 74 70 76 64 66 80 80 73 80 76 76 80 76 74 84 74 72 78 72 75 72 76 80 73 76 Average 72. ) Average 74.22, &c. The conclusions to be drawn from this table are obvious. To render them still more so, I may observe, that the breakfast is generally a moderate one, consisting of coffee, bread, and eggs; the dinner always of animal food principally, and a small quantity of vegetables ; to which was often added a little spirits or porter; and, notwithstanding the vast difference between the stimulating powers of these two meals, the morning pulse is inferior to the one after dinner by only two beats; the dif- ference would have been ten or fifteen, had the case been reversed, at least I am induced to think so from some experi- ments which I afterwards instituted directly to ascertain the f)oint. In the evening the pulse was reckoned after supper, ight, indeed, but certainly equal to the breakfast in stimulant power, and in some measure more so, because spirituous liquors very generally supplied the place of coffee. Notwithstanding this, the evening pulse is found to be, on an average, nearly eight beats lower than the morning one; a difference by no means inconsiderable, and sufficiently warranting the conclusions I have drawn from it. The following tabic was drawn up, in order to ascertain theObservations on the 20 effects which moderate exercise in the morning would produce on the pulse, reckoned, however, in such a manner as not to be immediately affected by it. A walk of three miles before breakfast. Pulse after breakfast. 74 81 80 83 80 78 Average 79.33. TABLES Pulse after dinner, as usual. 76 78 75 78 75 74 Average 76 Pulse after suppar, as usual. 62 62 62 64 66 64 Average, 63.3 &c. 3. My experiments have not yet enabled me to ascertain, with precision, the hour when the pulse begins not only to be actually more rapid, but also to acquire a greater capability for action, manifested by the exhibition of any stimulant. This, with myself, perhaps takes place about 3 A. M.; but there is every reason to believe that the time varies with the individual, the season, climate, and perhaps, though this for many reasons is improbable, with the mode of life. 4. This increased capability for action, occurring regularly in the morning, is even of greater importance than the actual state of the circulation ; the former may be made the subject of very delicate experiments; the latter we know to be exposed to a thousand variations, from causes which have been in part de- veloped. While experimenting on this subject, there occurred to me a case, altogether of so interesting a nature, that I cannot refrain from giving it in detail. It affords a remarkable proof of the truth of the doctrines brought forward in this essay ; at the same time, independent of this consideration, from the rarity of its occurrence, it appears to be worthy of record. M. C. aged 4. The account we received from the parents of this child was, that she continued in good health until about six months after birth, when a blueness of the surface was remarked, particularly on any exertion, and accompanied with perpetual difficulty of breathing. In this state she continued to grow, and became remarkably tall of her age. She was observed, however, to get daily worse; that is, the paroxysms of threatened suffocation became more frequent, during which the whole surface of her body appeared almost black. A strongDiurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 21 beati;ig was constantly to be felt in the region of the heart, and she was sometimes convulsed ; muscular debility great. At her death she measured three feet four inches. The body continued Warm for five hours after death. DISSECTION. 1. External appearances. The countenance, feet, and body, were not all discoloured ; the arms and fingers retained their usual dark colour. 2. Thorax. The lungs seemed sound, though dark-coloured ; heart perhaps larger than usual; foramen ovale pervious, and pretty large. The aorta arose from both ventricles in such a manner, that the ventricles communicated with each other, and with the cavity of the vessel, which was much enlarged ; its vasa vasormn distended with red blood. From the right ven- tricle there arose a pulmonary artery, very small in its diameter, (perhaps the size of a small goose quill) and feeble in its coats; it possessed all the characters of the artery, such as its valves and division into two branches. Not the smallest vestige of a ductus arteriosus; it seemed never to have existed. The passage from the left ventricle into the artery, common to both, was more direct than that from the right. Every where the arteries were full of dark blood, not coagulated. 3. The abdominal viscera were of a very dark colour. The head was not examined. Before leaving the house, the father of the child related to us a circumstance to which we all paid particular attention. The child, he informed us, had always been very fretful and peevish, (perhaps from indulgence,) and apt to have frightful paroxysms when spoken to harshly ; but these happened much more fre- quently in the morning; indeed, he observed that she was always ill in the early part of the day; so much so, that the smallest exertion, an angry word, or even a cup of tea, would instantly bring on a paroxysm, each time threatening destruc- tion. This tendency to these fits decreased from morning till about 5, P.M., from which time she generally continued well till bed-time. The father detailed this with great minuteness, and seemed to wish for an explanation. It will be easy to anticipate to what cause I would ascribe this increase of disorder in the circulation during the forenoon. So disproportionate was the pulmonary artery to the aorta, it was with difficulty that life could be carried on ; but, in the morning, when the susceptibility of the arterial system was22 Observations on the gi-eater, the inequality must also have been increased to such a degree as almost to have destroyed life. I may also remark that she died about 9, a.m. 3. To be convinced that an opinion, very different from that now brought forward, is the one more generally received, we have only to turn to the writings of a few celebrated physiolo- gists. Thus, for example, in the " Physiologic Positive" of Fodere, a work of merit, we find the following remarkable pas- sage :—" Relativement a la difference du jour et de la nuit, on remarque que le pouls de I'homme adulte bat de 60 a 65 fois par minute, au commencement du jour, et qu'il va continuellement en augmentant jusqu'a battre 80 fois dans le meme temps, chez les plus excitables, sur la fin de la journee ; dans la nuit, les pulsations diminuent de nouveau, jusqu'au matin, oii elles se trouvent revenues insensiblement au nombre de 60 a 65."* In order to have an approximation to the truth, we have only to reverse the above statement. If we regard as accidental cir- cumstances the accelerations of the pulse, occasioned at various times by our diet, and that, too, according to the caprice of the individual, the pulse shall be found gradually to diminish in velocity from an early hour until midnight, and generally later. This difference I have found to be great in winter, but less, though still existing, in summer, as the above experiments, erformed during that period, sufBciently prove ; and from this am inclined to believe, that heat has no inconsiderable share in the production of the phenomenon, though totally inadequate solely to produce it. This gradual excitation in the number of the pulsations Fodere conceives to be owing to the combined effects of exercise, of the action of the internal and external senses, of light, heat, purer air, &c. Violent exercise towards evening will certainly produce a considerable excitation of the pulse, but less than what takes place in the morning, in conse- quence of the same degree of exercise ; neither will any degree of heat, nor quantity of food, raise the pulse in the evening to the height at which it is in the morning, almost without any such excitants, provided they be not used in an immoderate degree.f Thus, after fasting till 8, p. m. I found my pulse to be 58 ; at 9, p, M. after eating a moderate dinner, pulse 58. The common mode of experimenting with unequal quantities of food, taken at various hours of the day and night, was evi- • Essai de Physiologie Positive, Tom. i. p. 190. f In experimenting on this point, care must be taken that the acceleration of the pulse, occasioned by indigestion, be not confounded with the natural bealtby pulse, produced by the simple stimulation of the food.Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 23 dently insufficient to establish the principle in its full extent. I endeavoured, accordingly, to submit to a particular regimen, and examine the state of the pulse under the influence of a diet always similar at every hour of the day. This decisive experi- ment could not be pushed any length ; so difficult a matter did I find it to break through, at once, those habits which a great number of years had firmly established. 6. " All these things (continues Fodere) singularly facilitate the return of the venous blood towards the heart; and this is one of the causes of the evening paroxysm which takes place in all fevers." But, having denied that any such gradual increase of the pulse exists, we need scarcely stop to say, that this cannot be one of the causes of the evening paroxysms in fever. This opinion appears to be borrowed from the celebrated Cullen. That author, however, increased the facility of expla- nation, by describing two exacerbations or augmentations of the pulse; one about mid-day, the other towards evening. This explains, in his opinion, the occurrence of the double paroxysm in hectic fever.* The whole is a pure hypothesis, whigh seems partly to have arisen from supposing that the pulse was governed by the same laws in health and disease. So far as my observa- tions go, the order of nature in disease is entirely reversed, and the observations of Cullen, Fodere, and others, are applicable only to the unhealthy. That this acceleration of the pulse (which is really an aberration from the regular laws of nature) actually happens in fever, the testimony of Cullen, generally so accurate in the observance of disease, will sufficiently establish; and that this universally takes place in phthisis, we have, unfor- tunately, too many opportunities to verify.f It was from the sinking of the pulse towards evening that I ventured, indepen- dent of other circumstances, to prognosticate favourably in the case of a child labouring under typhus fever. It was this which induced me to hope that some of the functions had begun to resume their natural order, and that recovery was a probable event. Nor was I deceived; by proper attention the patient from that day rapidly amended. 7. The physiologists who invented the various diurnal accele- rations of the pulse, one, two, or more, just as suited their fancy or necessity, will perhaps find little difficulty in explaining the gradual diminution of the pulse, should the phenomenon appear to them to be correctly stated. With me, I confess, the cause is yet excessively obscure, because I have not found it connected • First Lines of the Practice of Physic, vol. i. c. 862. t Beddoes' Essay on Consumption, p. 252.24 Observalions on the with any circumstance, to the influence of which I might ascribe- it. Experiment shewed me that no previous exhaustion from labour, excess in food, drink, &c. rendered the diurnal diminu- tion of the pulsations more evident than usual; the want of food, perhaps, hastens and increases it, but certainly does not prevent or retard it. Neither is sleep the cause of the restoration of the susceptibilities and velocity of the morning pulse, since the negation of that does not at all destroy the excitabilUy * of the sanguiferous systemy as manifested by the application of the accustomed stimulants. August 30th, 1813, the day being moderately warm, I walked, between 1 and 11, p.m. a distance of nearly forty miles. Not having much appetite, retired to rest about 1, a.m. after drink- ing a little coffee, but slept none, perhaps owing to over-fatigue. Next morning (31st) about 7, my pulse was 80, and rather feeble ; after breakfast, before which I took a small glassful of spirits, my pulse rose to 104. I was not feverish, and per- formed a journey that day of twenty-seven miles, at a tolerable pace. To what, then, are we to attribute this daily diminution of velocity in the functions of the sanguiferous system ? Its exist- ence as a law of the sanguiferous system has been demonstrated experimentally; and I shall endeavour to shew, that a similar revolution daily takes place in several other functions of the human frame. To this conclusion Dr Cullen arrived, merely from observing the daily returns of sleep and watching, of appetites and excretions, and the changes which regularly occur in the state of the pulse. Of these changes he had, however, no clear ideas. When he proceeds to combine this diurnal revolution with the phenomena of fever, he unquestionably offers a conjecture, extremely probable, ingenious, and perhaps original; but unfortunately there results from this fine idea, nothing but conjecture and hypothesis, attributable principally to an incorrectness in the observance of the phenomena. 8. It required fevv experiments to convince me, that animal food raised the pulse much more than vegetable ; the excitation of the pulse by wine is still greater, and that from spirituous liquors greatest of all. By these circumstances, but more espe- cially by diet, the regularity in the diurnal revolution in the pulse, is, as might have been anticipated, much disturbed. But it was impossible to perform these experiments without remarking, that something similar happened to various other fiinctions. Thus, beyond all doubt, our perceptions in the- • 1 use this word merely to avoid circumlocution.25 Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. early part of the day are clearer, our minds more acute, our whole intelligence more active. The functions of the stomach seem also much stronger at this time than towards evening. Feverish, restless nights, are the invariable attendants on late meals, which injure in the ratio of their quantity. I have repeatedly remarked, that digestion went on more easily in the morning than in the evening. Three or four times have I been induced, (sometimes compelled,) whilst following some flivourite sport in the country, to defer the taking food until evening ; a greater or less degree of fever and restlessness, in proportion to the quantity of food taken, has uniformly fol- lowed such indulgence. It was long with me a problem difficult of solution, why digestion should go on laboriously during the evening, when the actions of the muscular system were almost entirely suspended; more especially when I recollected, that the opinions of most, perhaps all physiologists, led us to conclude, that rest greatly favoured the digestion of our food. The objection, that during sleep, in which state the repose of the body is complete, diges- tion, nevertheless, is generally ill performed, seemed at first insurmountable ; and it is not a little remarkable, that those physiologists who have so repeatedly stated the fact, have as constantly failed to note the objection. On observing that practical men expressly stated the necessity of rest for the right performance of the function of digestion, and experiencing daily the truth of the observation, I was convinced that the above objection was rather inexplicable than hostile to the opinions of physiologists, which I tlien, and still do consider as strictly correct. But this phenomenon is no longer difficult of expla- nation, if a daily revolution in the functions of the stomach be demonstrated by experiments, or even rendered probable by analogy. On this subject, the opinion of those, whose profession it is to train men to the performance of great muscular feats, when they speak the truth, is of much more consequence than that! of any medical man. Experience has taught them, that the evening is not a proper time for the digestion of the food; and accordingly we never find any substantial meal taken by theis pupils after 5 p. m. ; indeed they lay it down as a rule, that on going to bed, the stomach should have as little to do as possible. Thus it is recommended * to sup about 9 o'clock on a chicken, or some food that is nourishing, not gross. In another place.f you must retire early to rest, on a supper of runnet-milk, or » Sinclair's Code of Health, vol. ii. p. 1G3. \ Ibid. p. 112.Observations on tlie 26 * Sinclair's Code of Health, vol. ii. p. 104. f Ibid. p. 94. milk-pottage. Again,* two meals a-day, viz. at 8 a. m. and 5 p. M. But these hours are rather later than the ones laid down by Jackson, who says,t " they breakfast upon meat about 8 o'clock, and dine at 2. Suppers are not recommended, but they may take a biscuit and a little cold water about 8 o'clock (I never heard of a more moderate supper,) two hours before they go to bed." The object kept in view during the training, is to enable the human frame to acquire the utmost degree of vigour consistent with health. To accomplish this, they employ the organs at the time when they ought to be employed, that is, during the early part of the day. " The exercise is always begun early in the morning, in summer at five; in winter at half-past six, or as soon as it is light. We prefer rising early in the morning, indeed it is indispensable." Strictly speaking, this increase in the functions of the body, may be more properly called an augmentation and diurnal revolution in the functions of the nervous system. But this is too indefinite a term ; no two individuals attaching precisely the game meaning to it; and we shall therefore consider the above facts, brought forward by Mr Jackson, as proofs of an increase in the powers of the muscular system, without offering any conjecture on what that peculiarly depends; whether it be connected with increased energy of the brain, or be totally independent of it. I shall close this part with a single additional observation. It is this: The regular decrease in the powers of the stomach is not dependent on any previous exertion of that organ, for I have found that a dinner taken at a late hour, with or without pre- vious exhaustion, was always digested painfully and laboriously, with feverish nights, distressing dreams, and, instead of refresh- ment, farther exhaustion. This arises not from the food stimu- lating at that time the system more powerfully than in the morning. If we may judge from the pulse, it stimulates the body much less at midnight than at nine in the morning; but it arises from this, that the powers of the stomach are more languid; it does not digest the food taken into it; and should a feverish night follow, it is neither wonderful nor inexplicable. Hence we see the propriety of no function being much employed during the evening; not because it will greatly excite the pulse, and so produce fever (ridiculous idea! the excitation of the pulse does not produce or constitute fever); on the contrary, the stimulation is actually less, it is almost as nothing, so far aaDiurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 27 regards the pulse; but the phenomenon is occasioned by this, that all the organs are less powerful, less capable of exertion; in short, less able to perform their functions, or undergo fatigue. A remark made by CuUen also illustrates, in some degree, the doctrine I have brought forward: " It is indeed to be observed, that in almost every person the taking of food occa- sions some degree of fever; but I am persuaded this would not appear so considerable in a hectic, were it not that an exacerbation of fever is present from another cause ; and accord- ingly, the taking of food in the morning has hardly any sensible effect." Here we see what so seldom happens, all the facts throwing light on the doctrine, and it on them ; for although the morning be the time when the action of food over the pulse is greatest, yet is there no febrile state excited. On the contrary, in the evening, as Cullen has remarked, a febrile paroxysm occurs in hectic, independent of food, aggravated perhaps by its presence, but whose real cause has totally escaped him. 9. Nor does this law seem confined to the functions of the brain, stomach, muscular, and arterial systems,—it extends, if 1 mistake not, to that of the lungs. Dr Prout found, " that the quantity of carbonic acid gas, formed during respiration, is not uniformly the same during the twenty-four hours, but is always greater at one and the same part of the day than at any other, that is to say, its maximum occurs between 10 a. m. and 2 P.M., or generally between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; and its minimum commences about half-past 8 p. M., and continues nearly uniform till about half-past, 3 a. m*"* The same gentle- man observes, that the quantity of carbonic acid given off" during respiration, bears no proportion to the numerical state of the pulse; in fact, he imagines that most carbonic acid is given out when the pulse is least frequent. My own experiments un- doubtedly disprove this idea. The greatest quantity of acid, according to Dr Prout, was given off during the forenoon, when the pulse is, in general, higher, and always more easily excited by any exertion; we may almost say, that the capabilities of the arterial system are at that time greater; and the importance of this remark, as it regards secretions, must be obvious. Besides, from what I can judge of the tables given by Dr Prout, they refer principally to the afternoon and evening, unless some of the tables be wrong marked. Notwithstanding this, I am much inclined to agree with him in this, that the quantity of carbonic acid given off during respiration is not particularly connected with, at all events not dependent on, the state of the circulation. • Annals of Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 330.28 Observations on the His experiments on the state of the respiratory organs aftef exercise—after the taking of spirituous liquors—during a mer-' curial course*—in short, after every thing which could excite the circulation, shew this in a decided manner. These experi- ments, liowever, require repetition. Many of them are too scanty to enable us to draw any cel"tain conclusion from them, whilst others are contrary to all analogy. The opinions contained in the excellent essay of Dr Prout do not seem to invalidate the conclusions which I have ventured to draw from my experiments : they amount to this — that all the functions, or at least many of them, are more vigorous in the morning than in the evening; that their capability for action is certainly greater; and that this increase in the functions com- mences at a much earlier hour than is generally imagined. Were it lawful for me to speculate, in this experimental age, I would venture to support an opinion, at present, I allow, some- what antiquated, and very U7ifashionable, that early rising may be conducive to long life, as it most certainly is to the perfect enjo)'ment of all our faculties. It was from repeated violations of all these dietetic maxims that I first perceived their im- portance ; perhaps by a similar experience alone can others be convinced of their value. Before concluding this section, it is my duty to observe, that on mentioning the results of some of these experiments to a medical friend, he assured me that experiments, performed by him about ten years ago, led to conclusions which were, in his opinion, extremely similar to mine. This circumstance, he observed, was very satisfactory to him, as my experiments had been performed, and my conclusions drawn, without any com- munication of ideas: it will be equally so to me, if I find the results exactly to correspond, — results of experiments performed by individuals so opposite in habits, temperament, and opinions. Section II. ' In this section we propose considering the effects of muscular motion on the pulsations of the heart and arteries. In what manner these pulsations are augmented in number, vigour, ful- ness, &c. by exercise, or, to speak more generally and correctly, by muscular motion, it is perhaps impossible, in the present state of our knowledge, to say. It seems, however, probable, that far- ther research may shortly lead to notions more precise than the • Dissertatio de Copia Acidi Carbonic!, &c. Andrea Fyfe auctore, jEdin. 1814.Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 29 ones we at present possess. Our concern is with the fact itself; viz. that, by muscular action, the pulsations of the heart and arteries are augmented in power, velocity, &c. This fact, appa- rently so unproductive, and, by reason of its perpetual occur- rence, so little apt to excite attention, shall yet, on examination, be found to throw some light on the physiology of the human body, and may perhaps assist in exonerating it from a charge so lavishly and inconsiderately bestowed,—that it is a science destitute of fixed principles; or, at least, that a knowledge of the laws by which the animal economy is regulated, is, in a great measure, placed beyond the sphere of human intellect. At all times it must have been observed, that muscular exer- tion, almost of any kind, but more especially violent exercise, increased greatly the powers of the heart and arterial system ; but that this extended even to the slightest muscular motion, such, for example, as is made use of during a change of posture, does not appear to have been suspected, or if so, its importance has been greatly overlooked. We may reduce the section to the following heads: \mo. The most powerful stimulant which can be applied, in order to increase the action of the heart, is exercise. Walking at the rate of four miles an hour, requires at least a pulse equal to 132 per minute ; and the time of the day, and the continuance of the exertion, less affect the rate of pulsation than one would a piiori imagine. When I say, that walking at such a rate requires a certain increase in the arterial pulsations, I do not mean to assert, that an equal increase must necessarily occur in every individual. These numbers are added only to render the subject more definite ; in short, as a single example, — as a proof that the increase is great, even in the strong and healthy. We shall immediately see how very differently the debilitated are affected. This high excitement is not followed by propor- tional exhaustion, in so far as regards the arterial system ; a fact singular enough, since it is at variance with certain laws of the economy, supposed to rest on a secure foundation. Of-her organs certainly follow a different mode, and exhibit, after any increase in their functions, signs of exhaustion or weakened energy. Such a law seems to hold with regard to the nervous system, in particular with the digestive organs and the respiratory.* '■Ido, No stimulant which I have hitherto tried, has excited the pulse so much even as moderate exercise. Zlio, Various observations have rendered it probable, that the increase in the number of the arterial pulsations accompanying * Annals of Philosophy for November, 1813, p. 328.30 Observations on the muscular motion, is greatly influenced by the debility or weak- ness of the individual. Were it allowable to apply the rigorous language of calculation to a science which cannot be called exact, we would say that such increase is in the direct ratio of that debility. Hence, in fever, the sligljtest change of posture shall often produce an incredible velocity of pulse. Persons who have suffered much from loss of blood, or by chronic complaints, cannot bear the erect posture for any length of time ; and hence, in the debilitated, who, it is well known, are very subject to faintings, the slightest muscular motion, by inducing or necessi- tating a rapid motion of the blood, (in them too rapid,) shall give rise to that distressing accident. As exercise increases, so other stimulants diminish the fre- quency of the pulse in the debilitated, at least generally. But as there may be various kinds of debility, in each of which the pulse maybe differently affected by exercise, and as this increase of the pulse, when it does take place, is often accompanied with irregularity, a very extensive series of experiments is required, before we can Implicitly agree with the above rule. On this latter principle, even in its present state, we may explain, I think, satisfactorily, many of the supposed stimulant effects of foxglove, which drug debilitates, directly and greatly, most systems of the animal economy. Ato, The time of the day has a very considerable effect on the augmentation of the arterial pulsations by moderate exercise. As this relation has already been considered at some length, I shall here confine myself to the statement of a few general results. During the morning, the mere change of posture from the horizontal to the erect, shall increase the pulse by about 15 or 20 beats. At mid-day, this Increase shall be 10 ; and. In the evening, 4 or 6. The effects produced by the sitting posture, assumed after the horizontal, are not half so considerable as those occasioned by the erect posture. The above is the manner In which the arterial pulsations are affected by posture, at different periods of the day; and though the results here stated may be greatly magnified in some, and equally diminished in others. It may, I think, be laid down as a general rule, that similar laws constantly regulate the healthy puJse. From the above observation, we readily perceive, of how little consequence the details of physicians are, regarding the diseased pulse. If the slightest change of posture can In an instant excite the pulse by 50 or 60 beats, how easily may the medical man deceive himself and others ! how often, without a previous know- ledge of these facts, may drugs seem to benefit the sick, when they are Inert, or actually pernicious.Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 31 $to, The increase of the pulsations occasioned by change of posture, may shortly prove a valuable asthenometer. There are others, but they do not seem so certainly to indicate debility as the above. Some of them, indeed, are more calculated to detect disease than simple debility. These asthenometers are* the hot-bath, the cold-bath, or cold air, also the non-excitation of the pulse by stimulants, supposed to happen in those habi- tuated to spirituous liquors. Some may allege, and perhaps with justice, that this shall be found to indicate rather a state of disease than debility. This condition of the arterial, or perhaps nervous system, which renders the pulse non-excitable by stimulants, is supposed to arise from other causes besides the abuse of spirituous liquors. " Une observation tres remar- quable que j' ai eu occasion de faire, c' est que, lorsque la sensi- bilite a ete emoussee par une affection chronique, les opiacees finissent par n' avoir plus de prise sur 1' economie animale."f I have seen one case which favoured somewhat the above opinion —the case of a young man, who, without doubt, laboured under hereditary predisposition to consumption. His pulse, on one occasion, I found to be not at all affected by a very great quan- tity of spirituous liquors. The opinion remains to be proved or refuted by additional observation. Indeed, as it is customary with those labouring under chronic complaints to resort to the use of narcotics, (this practice had not been adopted in the case just mentioned,) it is not to be wondered at that this class of drugs should at last cease to produce their wonted effects. Somewhat connected with this subject is the detection of commencing disease in the lungs, or pulmonic debility. This, according to Beddoes,J is indicated by a continued high pulse. " When consumption is advancing, it will be more frequent than natural, and, in general, much more frequent towards the close of day." The whole subject is novel, and deserves attention. As my only wish in prosecuting these experiments has been to correct a few notions regarding the physiology of the human body, and to advance that estimable science, I shall feel gratified with an examination of my experiments, whether that lead to a refutation or to a confirmation of the opinions maintained throughout this essay. • Beddoe's Hygeia. f Noureaux Elemens de Therapeut. et de Mat. Med. par Alibert, torn, ii. 506. \ Essay on Consumption, p, 252.EDINBURGH: Printed hj Andrew Shortrudi:, Thistle Luna.INAUGURAL DISSERTATION ^^--^/l)^ ON THE QUESTION, 0 HOW FAR ARE SECRETION AND NUTRITION DEPENDENT ON NERVOUS INFLUENCE? SUBMITTED TO THE MEDICAL FACULTY/ OF THE IN CONFORMITV WITH THE RULES FOR GRADUATION, BY AUTHORITY OF THE VERY REVEREND PRINCIPAL BAIRD, AND WITH THE SANCTION OF THE SENATUS ACADEMICUS. BY CHARLES CHADWICK, OF LEEDS, KXTBAORDINAllV ME5IBFR OI' THE KOYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OF EDINIIUKGII, AND CANDIDATE FOR THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR IN MEDICINE. EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY JOHN STARK. MDCCCXXXVII.JAMES SYME, Esq. F.R.S.E. PROF£SSOa OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH, THE FOLLOWING ESSAY IS HESPECTFULLY INSCBIBED, IN ADMIRATION OF HIS PROFESSIONAL EMINENCE, AND IN GRATEFUL ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF HIS VALUABLE INSTRUCTIONS AND REPEATED ACTS OF KINDNESS AND ATTENTION, BY HIS PUPIL AND FRIEND, THE AUTHOR.1TO JAMES WILLIAMSON, Esq. M. D. SENIOK PHYSICIAN OF THE LEEDS OENEKAL INFIRMARY, AND LECTURER ON THE PRACTICE OF PHYSIC IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE, THIS ESSAY IS, BY KIND PERMISSION, DEDICATED BY HIS FRIEND AND FORMER PUPIL, THE AUTHOR, WHO WOULD THUS EVINCE HIS GRATITUDE FOR THE VALUABLE ASSISTANCE AFFORDED HIM IN THE PROSECUTION OF HIS PROFESSIONAL STUDIES,IBY THE AUTHOR. FOR DR MADDEN, SURGEON, EXTRAOKDINARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH ; WHOSE KIND COMPANIONSHIP HAS EMINENTLY CONTRIBUTED TO RENDER THE HODRS OF STUDY AGREEABLE, AND THOSE OF RELAXATION PROFITABLE ; AND WHOSE FRIENDSHIP WILL EVER ENDEAR THE REMEMBRANCE OF HIS ACADEMICAL RESIDENCE, THIS DEDICATION PAGE IS AFFECTIONATELY RESERVED, WITH THE BEST WISHES FOR HIS FUTURE SUCCESS,HOW FAR ARE SECRETION AND NUTRITION DEPENDE>JT ON NERVOUS INFLUENCE? In the bodies of all animals in which a circu- lation is known to be performed, there is found ex- isting a species of apparatus, either forming dis- tinct organs and occupying determinate stations, or more diffusely spread throughout the system, whereby certain fluids are separated from the blood, differing as widely from each other in their appearance, character, and purposes, as from the vital stream whence they are derived. The or- gans which perform these all-important functions vary greatly in their anatomical constitution, pre- senting at one part the appearance of a compact and solid gland, whilst at another that only of a simply extended membrane. Yet though differ- ing so much, as they certainly do, in their gene- ral appearance, anatomists inform us that their necessary constituents are not very dissimilar. It A2 is not for me to enter on the discussion as to what constitutes a secreting organ, and whether in it it is absolutely necessary that an excretory duct should form a part. We.know that similar pro- cesses go on in some membranes whose minute glands cannot strictly be said to have proper ex- cretory ducts, and also pver. the whole surface of the body, as well as in those which possess these tubes. We know likewise that in all these pro- cesses blood-vessels, conveying an abundant sup- ply of their proper contents, are essentially requir- ed ; and it is also ascertained, with a considei'able degree of certainty, that in all these cases nerves are distributed to these organs, excepting, perhaps, in some of the very lowest in the scale of animals, where the fact of the existence of a nervous sys- tem has not been fully proved, though, I think, with a tolerable degree of reason, inferred. As to the part performed by the blood, physiologists are at once agreed, from it are separated those fluids which it is the function of each oi'gan to afford; but how these changes are brought about, and what share the nerves have in the perfection of the process, constitutes one of the most mysterious and difficult questions to which the enquirer can direct his attention. Notwithstanding its alarm- ing perplexity, it is the one I propose to make the subject of enquiry in the following essay, and without further preface I enter upon the task. I purpose, in considering this subject, to notice, inthe first place, the various experiments which have been performed by several physiologists, and which appear to bear upon, and in any way elucidate the subject. I shall also endeavour to ascertain from what source has arisen that diversity of opinion which authors have been led to entertain. After- wards I shall state the ideas I have myself ga- thered whilst engaged in the study of the subject; and if possible, in the last place, draw some con- clusion on this most interesting point, thus answer- ing, to the best of my ability, and as far as the pre- sent advance of physiological research will allow, the question under notice. In pursuing the sub- ject, however, considerable difficulty will have to be encountered, not merely from the intricacy of the subject itself, but likewise from the very loose and imperfect manner in which I find this branch of science has been treated of by those learned in- dividuals who have elucidated, by their enquiries, so many physiological difficulties, and to whose names, as authorities, we are accustomed to look with deference and respect. They will be found in many instances referring to this subject with comparative neglect, or founding their opinions on what those studying it must be compelled, in this age of close research, to pronounce as insufficient data. The influence, real or supposed, exerted by the par vagum on the secretion of the juices of the stomach, during digestion, has long been referred4 to as a proof that t^e' pi^ocess geiieraily'^llepentls on the action of the nerves. Most probably, from the ease with which these nerves can be exposed in the neck, during their passage to the stomach, they have come to be a favourite object of experi- ment. Many and various' are the means which have been adopted for destroying or suspending their action, but the conclusions derived, are, I fear, liable to considerable objection. But without anticij)ating, I shall endeavour to give a brief out- line of what has hitherto been done by physiolo- gists on this part of the subjecit'. 'lit is not my in- tention to introduce all the i)ublished experiments relating to this point, as that would be totally in- consistent with the limits of an essay of this kind, but merely a few of tlie most important, from which an idea may be formed of their value as an argument in considering the question under pre- sent notice. Experimenis sneWing' the effects of section of the par vagum'are of vei"^ ancient origin; per- haps, however, those performed with a view of ascertaining the changes produced by this opera- tioii oil the respiratory functions have the highest claim to antiquity. With this part of the enquiry, however, I have not to intei'fere, but to those au- thors who have mentioned the effects on digestion, I may, I imagine, with propriety here refer. Ac- cording to a paper of Messrs Breschet and Milne- Edwards, Baglivi is the first who notices this class5 of effects of injury of the par vagurn. On con- sulting his work, I find that he refers to Willis, * who makes mention of the injurious effects of liga- ture of these nerves on the digestive functions. Shortly after him Valsalva f notices similar effects produced on these organs by like operations. Ba- glivi :|: states that, on dividing the eighth pair, he found that respiration became difficult, and that whatever was takenforsorae time after such an ope-f ration was vomited. On dissection after death, which usually took place about the twelfth day , the oeso- phagus was full of imdigested food, which had been more recently eaten, which circumstance he attributes to the inability of the animal to swallow perfectly. Brunn § mentions that, in his experi- ments when the par vagum on both sides was di- vided, the dog on which the operation was per- formed would eat nothing but a little grass, which was fovmd in the stomach, after death, unchang- ed, along with matters having the appearance of true faeces. Haller appears, as far as I have been^ able to ascertain, (to have paid little attention to, the influence of the nervous system on secretion. He gives, however, a few experiments on the par vagum, along with their results, which have some connection with the present part of our enquiry. * Willis de Nervorum usu, Tom. i. cap. 24. f Valsalva Opera omnia, curante Morgagni. J Baglivi Opera omnia. Antwerp, 1715. § Bninn, Exj)erimenta circa Ligaturas Nei'voriim.6 These generally were, that after fruitless attempts to vomit, along with very difficult respiration, the animals perished a few hours after the operation, and on dissection, putrefaction of the contents of the stomach was discovered. He states, that his observations contradict those of Brunn, as to the pain occasioned by the operation, the length of time the animals lived after it, and the conver- sion of the contents of the stomach into faeces, which the latter imagined he detected. * I can- not here help expressing my regret that this able physiologist did not pay more attention to this enquiry. Blainville found that, on dividing the nerves some secretion did take place, but that the digestion of food was wholly suspended. Dupuy|: has recorded that when the eighth pair of nerves is divided in the neck in various animals, as sheep, horses, &c. the oesophagus is found to be filled with unaltered food, as also is the stomach, on the con- tents of which no change appears to take place. He found that when the trachea was artificially opened, so that a free supply of atmospheric air was afforded to the lungs, the animals usually lived for seven or eight days, and at length ap- peared to die from affection of the digestive organs alone. When, however, this precaution was not taken, they perished in a few hours from conges- tion of the lungs, the air passage being closed # Haller, Opera Minora, Vol. i. f .Tournal de Modecine, 1816, Vol. xxxvii.7 from paralysis of the laryngeal muscles supplied by the recurrent branch of the par vagum. The experiments and observations of Le Gal- lois * on the division of this nerve were princi- pally made in regard to the changes produced on the respiration. He, however, appears to believe, that digestion is suspended, and that if death did not take place from other causes, the derange- ment produced in the exercise of this function would be sufficient to produce that event. Sir B. Brodie, in endeavouring to investigate this subject expei imentally,found, from the speedy death caused by the division of the eighth pair in the neck interrupting the respiratory functions, that it was necessary to avoid, by some means or other, this source of fallacy. He had previously ascertained, that when a dog was poisoned with arsenic, a considerable effusion of fluid was found .always in the stomach. He accordingly admini- stered some of the deleterious drug to an animal, and also introduced some into a wound made in the thigh, and afterwards, in both cases, divided the branches of the par vagum upon the oesopha- gus, just as they pass from it, upon the surface of the stomach. In these cases, the breathing M'^as not in the slightest degree altered from the natu- ral state, and the poison took effect with the usu- al phenomena, excepting the secretion of the fluid, which was entirely wanting. Hence he appears ■. / I- ;,' * Le Gallois sur lu Principe de la' Vie.8 to infer, that the secreting power of the stomach is interrupted hy the section of these nerves, and he observes,* " we cannot venture to deduce from these any positive conclusions respecting the ne- cessity of the nervous influence to the secretions in general, but as forming one link in the chain of an interesting, but difficult physiological inves- tigation,—the circumstances which have been men- tioned, may be; considered 1,as possessing some value." ,. ; •nUi-iiU\(i -mH ■ ■ Sir B. Brodie and Di* W. Philip turned their united attention to this subject, and the results of their enquiry were published in the Philosophical Transactions. Some of their experiments showed that after division of the nerves, when the ends were leftiiji> contact, or even when the cut extre- mities had considerably retracted within the mus- cular substance of the neck, digestion was in a great measure completed. But again in others, when they took the precaution to turn back the divided ends of the nerves from each othery little orno perfectly digested food was found on exami- nation after death. The great mass had the ap- pearance of masticated food without any other change, however long the animal was allowed to live.f ii Dr Wilson Philip proves that the motions of the alimentary canal, meaning by this the stomach • Philosophical Transactions, 1814. f Ibid. 1822.9 and intestines, are wholly independent of the ner- vous system. From the experiments of Dr Hast- ings, conducted under his (Dr Philip's) own in- spection, (and published also separately by Dr H. himself,*) he concludes that when the par vagum is divided, the digestion of food is suspended, and that this arises from the non-secretion of the gas- tric juice. He states that when the division was made below the situation where the recurrent branch is given off, the difficulty of breathing did not supervene so rapidly as when made above. Rabbits were usually made the subject of these operations, two being employed for the purpose; one for comparison, which was always placed in the same situation as the other, excepting as regards the injury of the nerves. The one was killed upon the death of the other, and the respective states of their stomachs compared. Efforts to vomit always occurred sooner or later during the experi- ments. In those animals which were fed after the operation, it ensued immediately, whilst in those M'hich had eaten previously, the consequence Was delayed until sometime afterwards. This he considers as a powerful argument in his favour. For in the first case, says he, the intet^ nal coat of the stomach is not defended from th6 irritation of the crude food by the proper secre- tion which would convert the surface of the ali- mentary mass into chyme; whilst in the latter, • ■ , I •ii <i'--;ii;! I I! ■ ill;|ii->nliii'! ' Journal of Science, Vol. xi.10 some gastric juice having been secreted before the power of the nervous influence has been destroy- ed, a certain time must elapse before the chyme thus formed can be propelled onwards, and the stomach subjected to that unaccustomed irritation which causes the action of vomiting.* Dr Clarke Abel, in prosecuting the enquiries of the last mentioned author, in regard to the effect of galvanism on secretion conveyed through the nervous system, found, on dividing the par vagum in the neck, that the process of digestion was sus- pended from the loss of the secretory power of the stomach, f Broughton, in a number of experiments, per- formed on different animals, ascertained that when food of various kinds was given both before and after the operation, that first taken was partially digested, whilst the latter had undergone no change. On some of them the operation produ- ced little or no distress for several hours, but that after this time they were greatly affected, and usually perished within the space of twenty-four hours. :|: JMageiidie, himself, formerly attributed the de- rfmgements of the digestion to tlie effects produced on the gastric secretion, by the interruption of the ' Wilson Philip's experimental enquiry into the laws of the vital functions. f Medical and Physical Journal, Vol. xllu.' J Journal of Science, Vol. xi or Magendie's Journal, Vol. i, 4f Archives Generales do IVIedecin, Tome ii. 11 nervous action ; but it appears from his more re- cent publication that he now ascribes it to the dis- ordered state of the respiratory function, caused by the operation in question, and therefore that it is only a secondary effect of such lesion. * Messrs Breschet, Milne-Edwards, and Vava- sour have published a number of experiments, in which they confirm the results obtained by Wil- son Philip, as to the effects of simple section of the par vagura, as well as of section, when the ends of the divided nerves were turned away from each other. Moreover, to obviate the objection of Ma- gendie, they divided the oesophagus of a guinea pig, just before its passage through the diaphragm, ensuring in this way the section of all the nervous branches ramifying upon it, finding it otherwise impossible to separate all the nerves without this precaution. The animal died after an interval of eight hours, having previously appeared lively and without pain. Neither inflammation nor ef- fusion was found in the abdomen, yet still, how- ever, the food remained unaffected by the action of the stomach, f The above were published in an early number of the Archives Generales de Mede- cine, but in a subsequent part of that work they attribute the results to paralysis of the muscular fibres of the stomach. The function of the par • Precis Elementaii e do Pliysiologie, a translution.12 vaguni, is, according to their account, to preside over the motions of that organ. • Paetsch has given an account of some experi- ments, in which he cut tlu'ough the ceso])hagus, between the diaphragm and stomach, and found that the digestion of food previously taken was entirely suspended, although the animals shewed little or no signs of uneasiness for several hours after the operation. His friend, Augustus Schultze, Professor of Physiology in the University of Fri- burg, found precisely opposite results in similar ex- periments, for, according to his account, the pro- cess of digestion was, not only not interrupted, hut even performed with greater rapidity, f Messrs Leuret and Lassaigne object strongly to any experiment in which the abdomen or chest is opened, as, from the severity of the operation, no precise results can be obtained. Their first trial ws upon a horse, in i whose neck they di- vided these nerves. Digestion was suspended, but this they attribute to the: inflammation of the sto- mach which ensued in-this case, as in some future experiments the food was found perfectly digested. Analysis shewed the chyme and chyle formed to be similar to that under, ordinary circumstances. A great number of gentlemen witnessed these ex- periments, and were convinced of the accuracy of the i;esults,5.am2,i^g,\v^o^ was M. Dupuy, who con- * Archives GeneraJes de Medecine, Tom vii. -|- Dissertatio Inatiguralis. Gottingae.13 fessed the error of his previously published obser- vations. They conclude that digestion can be completed independently of the par vagum.* Dr Ware, in some experiments intended to prove the inaccuracy of Dr Wilson Philip's theory of the identity of the nervous influence and galvanism, found that, on dividing the eighth pair, digestion was entirely suspended.f'""i "^o yMvr^ -^i- -\o ^l.tM To conclude the notice of this class of experi- ments I may briefly mention some which I per- formed myself during the'"last-summer. They corroborate those which have been already noticed, whiere"the'suspension of the digestive functions was the result obtained. After the operation the animals were always allowed to' M-^e'for a time, suflSciently long fur digestion, under oi'dinary cir- cumstances, to have proceeded some length. Little pain was manifested during this time. Diflficulty of breathing was often, though not invariably, considerable, and the effusion of fluid into the bron- chi moderate. Other rabbits, for these were the animals made use of, werealways kept for compari- son, placed under precisely the same circumstances, excepting the division of the nerves, which obviat- ed in a great measure the objection urged by some, that the pain of the operation is at any time suffi- cient to suspend digestion.]: * Recherches Physiologiques'dt 'Chimiques'pbtfr' servir a I'Histoire de la Digestion, f London Medical and Surgical'ioWnaV'i'^ol. i. J Vide Appendix.14 M. Brachet, in a great number of experiments, performed on various animals, and related in his late work on the ganglionic system, confirms the above observation in every respect ; but whilst he believes the secretion to be under the immedi- ate power of the nervous system, yet he does not allow this to the par vagum, but ascribes to it, amongst numerous other offices, that of presiding over the motions of the organ.* In estimating the value of these expei'iments in regard to the question under consideration, and of the conclusion which may be drawn from them, numerous difficulties obstruct that simpli- city of deduction which all positive physiological inferences require. There are three separate func- tions which the par vagum may discharge in its distribution on the stomach. It may alone be of use in influencing or regulating the secretion of the gastric juice; on it may depend those sensa- tions with which physiologists state the organ to be endowed ; or lastly, its office may be to call into action the peristaltic movements of the viscus. And I find, in the various authors whom I have consulted, these three different theories advocated, in explanation of the suspension of the digestive function, which now, from the numerous experi- ments recorded in proof of the fact, must, I think, be allowed, by all candid enquirers, to be the con- * Recherches experimentales sur les t'onctions du systerae ner, veux gang^lionaire.IS sequence of division of these nerves. To fix upon the correct one of these three theories constitutes not a slight portion of the difficulties of the sub- ject, for if we agree with those who are inclined to admit the first hypothesis, the question is im- mediately asked, how it happens that, whilst this secretion is suspended, that of the mucus of the lungs is so greatly increased ? and does it not ap- pear strange, that from the same cause two such decidedly opposite consequences should arise? We shall be told likewise, by those advocating the third theory mentioned, that for a certain time the secretion does go forwards, as is proved by the existence of a layer of chyme on the surface of the alimentary matter, which, say they, would be con- tinued, did not the paralysis of the organ prevent the application of fresh unchanged food to the se- creting surface. As to the first of these objections, although it is stated, by almost all experimenters on the subject, to be the fact that the secretion from the internal mucous surface of the air-pas- sages is much increased, and though not prepared positively to deny it, yet I am inclined to think, from my own observation, that this is more appa- rent than real. The deception arises, I imagine, from the air breathed being mixed, by the violent respiratory efforts, with the fluid already there, thus giving it a frothy appearance, which might easily be mistaken for augmentation of its quantity. In confirmation of this idea I have found that when16 only slight efforts were made in res])inition, the fluid discovered was considerably less. * To the second of these objections it has, with some de- gree of plausibility, been answered, that the secre- tion might have taken place before the operation, and immediately after the reception of the food into the stomach, or, as it has more hypothetical- ly been explained by others, as owing to the ac- tion of the nervous power which remained in the nerves below the place of section. The former of these explanations appears to be streiigtliened by the observation of Dr W. Philip, already mention- ed,! regarding the time at which vomiting comes on, when the animals are fed before and after the operation. To those who are inclined to embrace the second theory, the following serious objection will occur. For a perfect sensation, it is requisite that a communication should exist between the part affected and the brain—how does it happen, then, that, when these nerves are divided, simple mechanical or galvanic irritation of the cut extre- * My friend, Dr John Reid, who is still investigating this sub- ject, informs me, that" he is at present inclined to believe that this serous frothy effusion is the result of the severe dyspnoea which generally precedes death, and not the cause of it, as is usually ima- gined." He says, " the grounds on which I have adopted this opi- nion are these, 1st, In my experiments the extent of this effusion apjieared to be proportionate to the extent of the dyspnoea pre- ceding death; and 2dli/, This effusion appears to me to differ in no respect from that found in the lungs in all cases of death where severe and protracted dyspnoea have been present." f Vide pp. 9,10.17 mi ties causes the function to be properly discharg- ed ? The third theory involves another much dis- puted point in physiology, viz. the dependence or independence of the muscular contractions on the nerves, and accordingly as the one or other of these opinions is held, will the answer given to this part of the enquiry be regulated. Wilson Philip, as has already been stated in this essay, affirms that the motions of the intestines are per- fectly independent of the nervous system, and for this opinion he has the authority of the illustrious Haller, and numerous other distinguished physi^-^, ologists. In addition to these, I may here short- ly advert to the opinion of Magendie, who conceives that this effect upon the stomach is produced se- condarily, by the derangement taking place in the,, respiratory organs ; for he states, that he found,,,, when the par vagum was divided below tht^.. branches sent to the lungs, a perfect digestion tooj^., place. Several experiments of very able physiolo- gists, some of which have been already quoted,^ contradict this result; neither has the opinion else- where received any material support. M. Brachet states in regard to it, that, from the numerous branches into which these nerves divide in the chest, M. Magendie must have failed in dividing them all. But it is time that I should leave this part of my subject; and I imagine that little more need be advanced, under this head, to prove the perfect complexity in which it is involved as cori- B18 nected with the stomach. If the question under consideration is capable of being elucidated by any series of experiments, it must be by one, perform- ed on some of the numerous secreting organs of the body, whose functions ai'e less complicated, than those of the viscus which has hitherto occu- pied our attention. It has been found by numez-ous trials, that the kidneys may be exposed by cutting into the abdo- men, and yet the animal survive several hours, and, notwithstanding the severity of the opera- tion, it is ascertained, that the shock thus caused to the system is not sufficient to suspend the se- cretion of urine. That this is the case may easily be proved by emptying the bladder at the time of the operation, and afterwards, when death has taken place, or a sufficient time has been allowed to elapse, examining the state of the organ. The kidneys are supplied with nerves from the renal plexus, which is composed principally of branches of the sympathetic system, having, however, communication with the cerebro-spinal nervis. I shall now briefly notice some of the experi- ments which I have collected from various authors, illustrating the effects of injury of the different parts of the nervous system on the urinary secre- tion, believing, as I do, that these are, in the pre- sent state of our knowledge, better calculated than any others we possess, to clear up, in some mea-19 sure at least, part of the difficulties by which we are so completely surrounded. Naveau, in his inaugural dissertation, gives the following as the result of some of his experiments : Having previously ascertained that rhubarb ad- ministered to dogs might be easily detected in the urine, he divided the nerves going to the kidneys, and emptied the bladder. He gave the animal rhubarb, and in the space of eight hours the blad- der was found filled with a purple-coloured urine, which was otherwise much changed in character. Urea was considerably less in quantity, and albu- men much increased. Lint dipped in the fluid was tinged red by the colouring matter of the blood which was contained in it, but not the slightest trace of rhubarb could be detected. After this the secretion continued gradually to lose its characte- ristic properties, until at length it contained no- thing but colouring matter of the blood suspend- ed in a clear and thin watery fluid. This experi- ment was repeated by him several times with pre- cisely similar results. He also states that divi- sion of the par vagum slightly affects this secre- tion, for although when rhubarb is administered it cannot be detected in the contents of the blad- der, yet the natural constituents of the fluid re- main the same. When the spinal marrow was divided at the first dorsal vertebra, the secretion continued, and rhubarb given was speedily detect- ed in it, but the characters of the fluid were slight-20 ly changed. When the spinal chord was destroy- ed from the place of section, above-mentioned, to the sacrum, little change was observed, but when the destruction was carried further up into the medulla oblongata, respiration instantly ceas- ed, and, although artificially carried on for thirteen minutes, no secretion was formed. The brain was next gradually removed, and here likewise the se- cretion was not affected. Immediately, however, on the medulla oblongata being injured, respira- tion ceased, and although this function was again artificially maintained, the same result as before mentioned occurred.* Brodie informs us that, on removing the brain, the secretion of urine was suspended, although ar- tificial respiration was maintained. In repeating the experiment he found the same result, together with a considerable reduction of the animal heat. He concludes, that, when the influence of the brain is cut off, the secretion is arrested, as also the for- mation of animal heat, notwithstanding that the usual chaiiges in the appearance of the blood are effected by I'espiration.f Westrumb relates three experiments which ap- pear to have been carefully performed. He divid- ed the spinal marrow at the first vertebra, and maintained artificial respiration, by which means the temperature of the body was kept at the na- ♦ Dissertatio Inaug. circa urinae secretioneni, Halae, 1818. -(■ Croomiian Lecture, Philosophical Transactions, 1812.21 tural standard. He injected into the stomach in the first two cases ferrocyanate of potassa, and into the third rhubarb, neither of which could be de- tected in the urine, although evidence of their pre- sence in anotfeer part of the body was yielded by the proper tests. * Having found numerous references to the opi- nions and experiments of Krimer, a German phy- siologist, on this subject, I feel sorry that I have not been able to obtain more than a brief notice of the conclusions at which he arrives, f They appear, however, so exactly similar to those al- ready given from the thesis of Naveau, that I shall omit their repetition. Drescher likewise, in his in- augural dissertation, having referred to the obser- vations of Krimer, confirms them in every respect.^ Brachet states that division of the par vagum does not prevent the secretion of urine from being formed, though he adds there was some difference in the quantity and colour of the fluid of two dogs in which he divided this nerve at the same time. After division of the spinal chord in the neck, M. Brachet informs us, that the secretion proceeded, and when he combined this operation with the one last m entioned, the animal lived forty-seven mi nutes, during which time nearly an ounce of urine was secreted. In several separate instances, he divid- ed all the nervous branches going to the kidneys, • Journal Complementaire, Vol. xvi. f Ibid. Vol. xxv. J Dissertatio Inatiguralis do Systemate Uropoetico.^2 but still found that a flvxid was separated from the blood, of a rose colour, and having a distinctly urinous smell. Again having proceeded as in the last case, he in addition introduced a tube into the renal artery, and then divided the vessel com- pletely upon it, by which means the circulation was perfectly maintained, whilst the continuity of nervous communication was as perfectly destroy- ed. The animal in this case lived four hours, dur- ing which time three ounces of a red liquid had passed into the bladder, which in all respects re- sembled blood. No wound in the kidney could be detected to account for this. He proved by another set of experiments, that this mode of ope- rating did not suspend the circulation through the organ, for on making incisions into it, in various parts, perfect jets of arterial blood were yielded from the divided surfaces.* I have thus endeavoured to collect the results of theprincipal experiments, which have hitherto been used as arguments on the subject under consider- ation. I have already stated my belief that those first detailed, and which have hitherto been prin- cipally dwelt on by physiologists, are too compli- cated in their results, to allow a positive conclu- sion to be derived from them. Although the others which are afterwards mentioned, are perhaps bet- ter calculated for this end, yet I would not have * Recheiches experimentales sur les fonctions du systeme ner- veux ganglionaire, par M. Brachet.23 it understood that I entertain the belief, that, by any facts hitherto recorded, a positive decision can be arrived at. In bringing this essay to its con- clusion, I will first state some of the arguments by which it is determined that secretion is, in any degree, under the influence of the nervous system, and next examine the extent to which this influ- ence is exerted. I have only to mention the effects of violent mental affections on the various secretions,—as of grief on that of the tears, of fear on that of the perspiration and urine, of the stimulus of savoury odours on the flow of saliva, and lastly, of the in- creased production of milk in the female breast on the sight of her infant,—to convince the most scep- tical that the different processes, by which these fluids are produced, are liable to suffer changes from the action of the nervous system. If these will not suffice, I refer to the results of some of those experiments first mentioned in this essay, which, though I have already deemed insufiicient to determine the more difficult part of our enquiry, furnish,Iimagine,inthemselves abundant evidence that my conclusions in this particular are not in- correct. But it is almost superfluous to proceed further in arguing this part of the question, as I scarcely anticipate that any material objection can be raised against the view I have here taken. Those authors who are quite decided in their dis- belief of the necessity of the nervous power in se-24 cretion, are perfectly willing to admit the exertion of an occasional influence. Thus Dr Alison, in a very able paper published in one of the numbers of the Journal of Science, says, when referring to some previously performed experiments of Mv Brodie, " when Mr Brodie concludes from these expei'iments that the suppression of the secretion was to be attributed to the division of the nerves, and that the secretions of the stomach and intes- tines are very much under the control of the ner- vous system, his inferences must command gene- ral assent."* " Functional secretion," says Mayo, "is to a remarkable degree influenced through the nervous system." f Bostock too, confesses, that " it is sufficiently obvious that the organs of se- cretion in the higher orders of animals are very much under the influence of the nerves, and in many cases materially affected by them." ^ But do these secretions depend on some influ- ence communicated by the nerves to the elaborat- ing organs ? can they, or can they not, take place without this transmitted agency ? The principal objections which have been raised to the possession of this power by any portion of the nervous sys- tem will now fall to be considered. The first I shall notice is one to which great importance has been attached by its promulgators ; and I must * Journal of Science, Vol. ix. p. 113. f Outlines of Physiology, 3d edition, p. 93. t Elementary System of Physiology, Vol. ii. p. 426.25 allow, that, if all were perfectly agreed as to its correctness as an ascertained fact, the question might be considered as decided. It is stated that in a considerable number of the lower animals, and in the entire vegetable kingdom, no traces of a nervous system have hitherto been discovered by the most minute anatomical investigations. Thus Bostock declares that, if a good instance of secretion, performed in animals where a nervous system has not hitherto been detected, can be fur- nished, the controversy is at once decided. If then this distinguished physiologist had followed out this line of argument, used in the former, and still adopted in the later edition of his work, and had cited an instance of this kind, his choice might probably have fallen upon some one of those ani- mals in which a nervous system, truly of a more simple character, has lately been discovered. For since the time when this argument was first ad- vanced, nerves have been distinctly detected in some classes of animals where their existence was not previously suspected, which circumstance proves at once that the controversy considered in this manner is any thing but decided. To this, however, it may be replied, that many still exist to which the remark of Bostock strictly applies; but as we have seen patient and successful inves- tigation overcoming in a great measure this powerful barrier, and, arguing from the uniformi- ty invariably observed by nature in all her works,26 we may infer, I think, with considerable propriety, that future well-directed research will establish the existence of nerves in those which remain. Then, in regard to vegetables, independently of the fact of their belonging to a different natural kingdom, in which all the vital processes are per- formed with gi-eater simplicity, and in which many belonging to animals are altogether deficient, we may state that the analogy is not strictly perfect, and, therefore, although admissible as a corrobo- rative, can scarcely be used as a decisive argument. I have much pleasure in being able to add the authority of Roget in support of the above argu- ment, who, after observing that the organic affi- nities which produce secretion, and all those un- known causes which effect the nutrition, deve- lopement, and growth of each part, are placed under the control of the nervous powei*, goes on to remark, that " as the functions of plants are sufficiently simple to admit of being conducted without the aid of muscular power, still less do they require the assistance of nervous energy." * I make no use of the statement which has, I am aware, been ventured by some vegetable physio- logists, that nerves do actually exist in this king- dom, as by M. Dutrochet and M. Brachet, the latter of whom declares his opinion that they belong to the ganglionic system, for the fact of * Bridgewater Treatise, Vol. ii. p. 357. 427 such existence cannot, in the present state of our knowledge, be positively asserted. Another argu- ment made use of on this side of the question, is the occasional production of foetuses, in which a portion or portions of the nervous system have been found deficient, and in which the different parts of the body had attained a full size, inferring justly from this fact, that the various secretions have been duly performed. The instance of this species of malformation most frequently quoted, is that published some years ago by Mr Lawrence.* In this case, the child lived a few days after birth, and amongst others, the secretion of urine was duly performed. Besides this, numerous others have been from time to time recorded, of a similar nature, but in these as in that detailed by Mr Law- rence, more or less distinct traces of a nervous sys- tem have generally existed. Positive experiments are likewise confidently ap- pealed to in support of this doctrine, as, for instance, that of Bichat on one of the testicles of a dog, the nerves going to which he is said to have divided. Inflammation terminating in suppuration succeed- ed to the operation, which of course, as he observes, obscured the result of the experiment; but he in- sinuates that the very fact of the formation of matter taking place, would lead him to conclude that the nerves are not necessary to the seminal secretion, as this, the formation of matter, is an • Medico-Chimrgical Transations, Vol. v.28 analogous process. But it may be inquired, did M. Bichat divide those numerous branches of nerves w^hich closely accompany the spermatic ar- ► tery, and which, if he did. not, might suffice for the performance of the analogous function of which he speaks ? * Mr Mayo, too, formerly pub- lished an experiment, in which he is stated to have divided the nerves of the kidney, a:fter which the natural secretion proceeded, f This statement is, I imagine, sufficiently answered by the very nu- merous and satisfactory experiments already de- tailed, :j: which, from the apparent accuracy with which they were performed, must be deemed more worthy of attention than the single one in question, in the performance of which some fallacy must have existed. The probability is, that Mr Mayo, seeing some fluid collected in the bladder, deemed this a sufficient proof that the secretion had been duly performed ; whereas, had he carefully ex- amined the nature of the contents, he would have found them resembling in character that described in the thesis of M. Naveau. Again, the state of patients when labouring under paralysis has been adduced as a further argument, for it is said that, under these circumstances, secre- tion is continually performed, and that inflamraa- " Anatomie Generale, Vol. iv. p. 604. f Outlines of PhysiologJ^ X Of Naveau, Brachet, &c. p. 19. et seq.29 tioii and suppuration may occur, the latter of which, as we have before stated, is termed an ana- logous process. Instances are also recorded where? in complete paralysis of the lower half of the body, erectionand ejaculationof the semen have occurred; and Bichat, when arguing this point, relates the case of an individual in this state having contract- ed a gonorrhoea. But what do these instances prove ? Certainly nothing for the purpose they are intended. To do this it must be allowed that all nervous power was suspended ; but the very fact of the venereal appetite existing at all, and influencing the generative organs, denies that this could ha^'e been the case. The progress of the formation of the chick in ovo, has yielded also a very formidable objection against the nervous theory of secretion. It is stated that the secretory processes " go on in the chick before any vestige of brain or spinal marrow can be traced, as also in the early part of the existence of the human foetus, when the brain and nerves appear incapable of performing their func- tions."* I, however, apprehend that this argument will, in a great measure, be deprived of its weight, when it is remembered that, if allowed, it must like- wise be admitted in regard to the formation of the various parts of the animal from the blood ; for it is ascertained that the blood-vessels are distinct- * Alison, in Journal of Science, Vol. ix.30 ly formed before any of the fluid which afterward circulates in them can be accurately observed. But I have ari'ived at that part of my essay, where I think it requisite to sum up the argu- ments, which appear to conduce to the establish- ment of the nervous theory of secretion, as it has been denominated by Bostock. Bordeu affirms that the number of nerves usually distributed to glands are moi*e than sufficient to ensure the life of the part; neither, says he, are these organs very sensitive, nor are they endowed with motion, yet, allowing that some are required for each of these purposes, several remain to answer some other end, " and are they not employed in secretion ?"* Though this manner of stating his argument may be considered as very ingenious, ra- ther than strictly correct, yet I am inclined to at- tach some weight to the anatomical distribution of the nerves in favour of this theory. It is general- ly allowed by physiologists, that the secretions are performed by the minute arterial, and not by the venous capillaries. Now, anatomists inform us that arteries and excretory tubes, to their mi- nutest ramifications, are abundantly supplied with nervous branches, particularly of the sympathetic system, whilst they do not appear to be so connect- ed with the veins, f What, then, can be the use * Recherches Auatomiques sur les Glandes, p. Sil. t Lobsteiii de Nei vi sympathetici humani fabrica, usu et mor- bis, p. 103.31 of this abundant distribution ? They cannot serve the purpose of assisting in the circulation, else we might infer that they would be found upon the veins : and Dr Allen Thomson tells us, in an able paper on the circulation, lately published, " that although the circulation in the small vessels is ob- viously liable to be modified by the state of the nerves in their neighbourhood, or perhaps by af- fections of the nervous system in general, there is no reason to consider the capillary circulation as more immediately dependent on the nervous influ- ence than is the action of the heart."* The known effects of opium, in suspending the secreting func- tions generally over the body, will serve likewise in support of this doctrine, more especially when the method in which it acts upon the system is remembered. It is through the nerves alone that this very powerful drug produces its effects ; and we find that, whilst the economy is labouring un- der its action, secretion generally is either arrest- ed, or at any rate materially diminished. Lob- stein relates the case of a friend of his own whose hair turned white in a few days, from the great mental anxiety occasioned by the burning of his house ; and numerous other instances are to be found on record of similar occurrences. Now the peculiar colouring matter of the hair is allowed to be the result of a secretion taking place in the * Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, Article Circulation.32 glandular apparatus, seated at the roots, and the manner in which this change was produced can only have been through the medium of the ner- vous system, and must therefore be regarded as a corroborative proof of the nervous theory. But by far the most cogent arguments, on this side of the question, are those derivable from the very important experiments already detailed, as per- formed by Naveau, Krimer, Brachet, and others. The first mentioned of these gentlemen, it will be remembered, found that substances introduced into the stomach, as rhubarb, which in the natu- ral state may be easily detected in the urine by well established tests, soon after its administz*ation, could no longer be so on division of the nerves going to the kidney ; moreover, that the secretion gradually ceased to manifest its usual properties, until at length nothing but the serous part of the blood, with a little of the colouring matter, was separated ; the result merely of a mechanical pro- cess of transudation. The result in these cases is the effect of an apparent and sufficient cause, and to me appears inexplicable on any other grounds than those to which it is here referred. The experiments of M. Brachet seem to confirm the above in every respect, and even go further in proof of the point in question; but these will require confirmation by other experimenters be- fore they can be implicitly trusted. If, however, the whole of this series be found to be correct,33 and I see no reason to doubt the accuracy of the results of the former part of it, we need, I ap- prehend, no further proof of the decided part taken by the nerves in the process of secretion. I have hitherto purposely avoided all reference to that theory which has been advocated by Dr Wilson Philip, of the identity of the nervous influence and galvanism, which, though one of an unusually interesting nature, could not have been introduced here, without increasing the thesis to an unwar- rantable length. Moreover, the two questions, viz. that which forms the subject of this paper, and the one to which allusion has just been made, are, I consider, perfectly distinct, at any rate in the state in which the latter at present exists. If, however, that identity should in process of time be satisfactorily proved, then these experi- ments, in which secretion, already suspended by the destruction of the nervous communications, was found to be re-established by galvanism transmitted along the divided nerves of the organ, will come to be powerful arguments on this side of the question. As, however, I have not been able to find sufficient data for the establishment of this fact, and for the reasons above-mentioned, I consider myself justified in having omitted a more lengthened detail of them. Itnow remains forme to state the opinions which I have been led to entertain by the study of this subject; but the previous observations contained in c34 the essay render it almost unnecessary to perform this part of my duty. The evident inclination which I have to adopt the theory of the depend- ence of the secretion on the nervous influence must have been easily detected. But I feel myself com- pelled to admit that the subject still I'equires a con- siderable share of close investigation, and it has always been allowed to be one of the most myste- rious and difficult of elucidation in the whole range of physiological science. The arguments, too, on the opposite side, must, in common candour, be al- lowed to be most powerful. Yet, nevertheless, I regard the theory which I am thus inclined to adopt as one progressively gaining strength, which it will continue, with the general advance of phy- siology, to do until established on a firmer basis than that on which it at present exists. In sup- port of this idea we have the recent discoveries of nervous systems in the lower classes of animals, which it must be remembered takes away at every step a strong hold of the opposing theory. We have likewise the recent, and, if correct, very important experiments of Brachet, which, I ima- gine, only require confirmatoxy repetition almost to decide the conti'oversy. The observations of this physiologist, from some cause or other, which I am at a loss to explain, are viewed with general distrust in this country. This may arise from the results of almost all his experiments, too exactly supporting, what appear35 to have been his pre-conceived notions on the sub- ject ; but whatever may be its cause, as the re- sults which he has pubhshed are, as will have been already concluded, of a very important nature, as connected with our present subject, I cannot help coinciding with the hope expressed in a late ex- cellent review of M. Brachet's work, that " some of our British physiologists will be induced to turn their attention to this department of physiology, with a view of settling, as far as experiment can settle, the doubtful questions connected with it."* But is not this the proper place for enquiring to what part of the nervous system should this power of superintending, as it were, the secretory functions be ascribed ? I believe that this ques- tion might be easily avoided, on the ground that it is not strictly included in ray present enquiry, the object of that being to ascertain whether such a power does exist, and not to point out its parti- cular location. Thus, however, I am not anxious to effect my escape, but am willing to admit that at present it cannot be answered satisfactorily. Various situations appear to have been indicated for the residence of this influence, as the different observations which have been already noticed in the foregoing pages, and which need not here again be enumerated, will at once suggest. Present ap- pearances, however, fa\'our the idea, which has long been entertained by many, that through the * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. xxxvi.36 ganglionic system this power has its means of ope- ration. When, however, the first of these ques- tions shall have been answered, then the second will open out a most inviting field for interesting enquiry. I have now only, in conclusion, briefly to no- tice the second part of my subject, and to explain the reasons why its consideration has not formed a more prominent feature in the pages of this es- say. Its omission has not been one of accident but rather of design; for regarding, as I do, the process by which the solid textures of the ani- mal machine, when worn out by the continued performance of their various functions, are con- stantly renewed, one, as essentially belonging to the order of secretion, as that of the urine or sali- va, I was inclined to believe that its inti'oduction might, in some measure, complicate the subject, and thus tend to obviate that degree of clearness which it has been my object to attain. I need scarcely adduce proofs of the similarity which I have just mentioned ; they are performed by the same system of vessels, and are, as far as is yet known, regulated by the same laws. In this view I am supported by numerous physiologists ; thus Haller regarded nutrition, and characterized it as " omnium simplissiraa secretio ;" and in this his authority has been deservedly respected. Few experiments have hitherto been made re- specting the direct influence of the nervous power37 on this function. Those of Dupuy, Veterinary Pro- fessor in the University of Alfort, appear to have been the principal, in which he extirpated the su- perior cervical ganglia from the neck of a horse. He found that after this operation the animal might live many days, and even weeks, and that the principal effects were obstruction of the pupil, redness of the conjunctiva, general wasting of the body, and an eruption of a mangy nature, affect- ing the entire surface. Hence he concludes, that these nerves exercise considerable influence over the nutritive functions.* The effects of the diffe- rent diseases of the nervous system on nutrition, as in paralysis, one of the consequences of which is wasting of the parts affected, have long been noticed, and adduced by some as arguments on this question, but they have on the other hand been explained by " the total inactivity of the parts af- fected."! Someobservations which have been made, among others, I believe, by Magendie, on the eye, in cases in which the part of the fifth pair of nerves supplying that organ has been either divided, or its trunk diseased, havebeenlikewiseadduced,in which the first symptom was drying of the conjunctival surface, and subsequent rupture of the cornea from ulceration, terminating in discharge of the con- tents of the eye-ball. These facts, however, are * Journal de Medecine, Vol. xxxvii. pt 340. f Alison's Outlines.38 far from sufficiently numerous or authentic to serve as decisive arguments, and, indeed, those last relat- ed appear rather to belong to the former part of the essay, and might perhjaps have been more pro- perly introduced there, as another proof of the sus- pension of secretion on injury of the nerves sup- plying the secreting part. Difficulties of a very perplexing nature present themselves to the per- formance of any series of experiments for elucidat- ing this question, and it must be rather the ana- logy, if the similarity for which we have just been contending be admitted, on which arguments must at present, and I imagine likewise in future, be founded, establishing at the same moment, when the merits of the question shall come to be more fully understood, the dependence or independence of the two functions of secretion and nutrition on the action of the nervous influence.APPENDIX. Experiment I. July 13,1836.1^ p. m.—Two rabbits, previous- ly kept fasting for twenty-four hours, were fed for half an hour on vegetables, and at a quarter to two the par vagum was divided on each side above the recurrent, and about an inch in length re- moved. Immediately after the operation the breath- ing appeared difficult, but soon became more placid, though still evidently affected. In about an hour the respiration again laborious, and attended with a slight noise, which increased up to four o'clock. In the second rabbit, the nerves were exposed, and lifted from their places, but not divided. It appeared quite unaffected by the operation. At 8 P. M. Noise attending inspiration of the first somewhat increased. The second is quite lively. The heart's action in both unaffected from the first. Six hours and a half after the operation both killed and immediately examined. The stomach of the second, was not fully dis- tended with the masticated food of a dark-green colour; a portion towards the lesser curvature was semifluid, of which some had passed into the duodenum.40 In the first the stomach was more distended, and the contents externally of a darker hue, and throughout of one degree of consistence, resem- bling more nearly the natural state of the vege- table. The entire mass was dry. The duodenum and oesophagus empty. The lungs in neither case were congested, but if at all, it rather applied to the second than the first. Neither trachea nor bronchi contained any appreciable quantity of fluid. The bladder in the first much distended. On careful examination the nerves were found dis- tinctly divided. Experiment II. July 16.—Two rabbits, previously starved for twelve or sixteen hours, were.subjected at 8 P. M. to the same operation, after being fed as before. The one, whose nerves were divided, suffered from difficulty of breathing, which continued for half an hour, when they were left for the night. No attempts to vomit were observed. Next morning it was found dead. On examination the stomach was distended, but not fully. The contents were little changed throughout, but on the surface was a layer of lymph-like matter. The oesophagus was partial- ly filled. The lungs were covered with black patches, and frothy mucus in the bronchi and trachea in considerable quantity. The mucous membrane of41 the latter was highly injected. The nerves had been perfectly divided. The second rabbit was not killed, as it would not have afforded a fair compa- rison. Experiment HI. 25th July, 7^ A. M.—A portion of the eighth pair from each side removed as before without the rabbit being previously fed. Breathing much dis- ordered, and refused food. 8. 30'. Still refuses food ; several ineffectual attempts to vomit. 9. A little dandelion leaf eaten, when held close to its mouth. Breathing afterwards more thick, and attended by louder noise. 9. 40^ Loud noise still continues, and refuses food. 10. Respirations regular, but with much noise. 1. p. m. Breathing still with much noise, rather quick. Does not move about. 7. Noise during respiration increased. 7. 15'. Kil- led by a blow on the head. Contrary to expec- tation stomach found full of apparently digested food. Lungs natural, containing little mucus. (Esophagus empty. Experiment IV. 25th July, 8. A. M.—A rabbit fed after fasting, and nerves divided, without any portion being re- moved. The cut ends were left, as much as pos- sible, in contact. Respiration much disturbed, ac- companied by a gurgling sound. 9. 30'. Respira- tion laborious with little noise. 9. 50'. Respirations D42 irregular, without noise. 10. 50'. Appears lively, but breathing irregular. 1. P. m. More lively than either of the others operated on at the same time. Ate some dandelion, whioh had been accidentally left in its way. 3. p. m. Symptoms little altered, but if at all is more quiet. 4. P. M. No change, has again teken food. 7. 40'. Killed. Stomach quite distended ; contents of black colour, unalter- ed in consistence, but that recently taken quite green. Duodenum empty. CEsophagus filled with green recently swallowed food. Lungs natural in appearance, containing little or no mucus. Trachea empty. Experiment V. 25th Juhj, 8.15'. A. M.—In another rabbit pre- viously allowed to feed freely, the nerves were di- vided, and portions removed, as in Experiments 1. and 2. Respiration inci'eased in frequency, and accompanied by a slight purring noise. 9- 50'. Respiration quick, and very laborious, but with less noise, chiefly abdominal; one or two ineffec- tual attempts to vomit. 10. 50'. Much the same as at last report; one or two attempts to vomit, l.p. M. Remains quiet. Breathing more difficult, but with less noise, still attempting fruitlessly to vomit. 4. Breathing if at all changed more dif- ficult. 8. P. M. Killed. Stomach found distended. More appearance, however, of digestion at the pyloric extremity. Central portions of the mass quite unaltered.4.3 Duodenum and oesophagus empty. A little mucus in the trachea and bronchia, as also in the lungs. Experiment VI. ^5th July, 8. 20'. a. m. The nerves having been divided as in the last experiment, the trachea was opened, and a quill tube was introduced and secured. The respiration was, however, more dif- ficult than in the two other rabbits. 9- a. m. Stands with its neck extended, apparently to faci- litate the breathing, which is very difficult. The tube removed with some relief. 9. 30'. Breathing more easy. 9. 55'. Breathing again exceedingly laborious, with slight noise. 10. 50'. Vomited a slight quantity of mucus mixed with blood. 1. p. M. Breathing laborious ; has again vomited some clear fluid. 3. Breathing continues laborious. 4. Difficulty of respiration increasing. 6. 30'. Died suddenly, having, from accounts given, ap- peared previously very lively. Examined at 7. p. m. Stomach much distend- ed, contents covered with a film of grayish white matter. Interior of the mass unaltered. (Esopha- gus empty. Lungs dark-coloured, much congest- ed. Air-passages filled with a frothy mucus. Duo- denum contains a turbid fluid, having the appear- ance of bile and mucus. iCDINllUUGH : PRINTED BY JOHN STAUK, OLD ASSKMDI.Y C'LOSi;.IPRIZE THESIS. INAUGURAL DISSERTATION ON THE PRESENCE OF AIR IN THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION, SUUMITTED TO ^i)t MtHical dfafulti) of tt)e WLni'on'Qitr} ot IN CONFORMITY WITH THE RULES FOR GRADUATION, BY AUTHORITY OF THE VERY REV. PRINCIPAL BAIRD, AND WITH THE SANCTION OF THE SENATUS ACADEMICUS. BY JOHN ROSE CORMACK, VRESIDENT or THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH, &C. AND CANDIDATE FOU THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR IN MEDICINE. EDINBURGH: JOHN CARFRAE & SON, SOUTH BRIDGE;. LONGMAN, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMAN, LONDON ; HODGES AND SMITH, DUBLIN. MDcccxxxvn,fedinbufgh: Printed by BaLfoUR Sc Jack, Niddi7 Stfeet." FaIIIE LADVE ! THAT AYRE IS MOST KILLINGE. It HETH A STBANGE AND SUBTILE INFLUENCE O'ER THE HART." Old Play.TO THE REV. JOHN CORMACK, D. D. MINISTER OF STOW, THIS INAUGURAL DISSERTATION 16 AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED BY HIS SON, THE AUTHOR.ICONTENTS. Page Introduction, • 1 CHAPTER I. Examination of the Physiological Changes which take place in those Cases in which Deatli is the almost immediate restilt of the Admission of Air, 3 CHAPTER II. Circumstances which Modify the Effects. Observations on Cases in which Death did not take place, or was a secondary result, 22 CHAPTER III. On the Cause of the Entrance of Air into Veins divided during operations ; with some Considerations on the Means most likely to Avert Death in such cases 3'^ CHAPTER IV. Remarks upon the Generation of Air in the Living Body, especially in the Blood Vessels, with Observations on the Consequences which may result from its presence there,... 4(!INTRODUCTION. The amount of physiological knowledge derived from ex- periments on the inferior animals, would unquestionably have been more extended and accurate than it really is, had experimenters been more desirous to give exact accounts of what they saw, and less anxious to form ingenious hypo- theses, and hasty generalizations of facts. It is to be la- mented, that this itching after novelty has led some most distinguished men to commit another and a much more se- rious error than that to which reference has now been made —I allude to a practice with which the French in particu- lar are chargeable, viz. that of describing their experiments in inflated language, using fanciful and exaggerated expres- sions in recording the effects of the various physiological agents they have employed; thus rendering their observa- tions in a great measure useless, indeed in some cases it may be, worse than useless. Much unnecessary slaughter of animals might certainly be avoided, were experimenters more careful to record their observations in that plain unvarnished language, which alone n2 is suited to scientific details. This observation has been naturally suggested by the consideration of the subject of the following Essay. Bichat exceedingly exaggerated the deleterious effects produced upon the animal economy by the introduction of air into the veins, asserting that a bubble of air introduced into a vein occasioned immediate death. This statement the subsequent experiments of Nysten, Magendie, Dr. Blundell, and others, have proved to be utterly erroneous. Nysten found that a small quantity of all the various gases with which he experimented, including nitrous gas and sid- phureted hydrogen, might be introduced into the circula- tion without occasioning death,* and as will appear from experiments afterwards to be detailed, I have injected large quantities of air into the veins of dogs and rabbits, without the manifestation of any decided effect. For the sake of perspicuity, it seems necessary to arrange the great variety of topics to which our attention is de- manded, under some leading heads, and with this view the following Essay is divided into four chapters, each being to a certain extent a separate Essay. • Rech. de Physiol, et Chimie Pathol, p. 152. Paris, 1811.INVESTIGATION, &c. CHAPTER I. EXAMINATION OF THE PHYSIOLOGICAL CHANGKS WWlCti. TAKE PLACE IN THOSE CASES IN WHICH DEATH Il3 THE ALMOST IMMEDIATE RESULT OF THE ADMISSION OF AIR. When air or any gas is introduced into the circulation 171 sufficient quantity to cause rapid death, the symptontis which precede the fatal event, are in general pretty uni- form, as are also the appearances observed on dissection. The animal suddenly falls down, utters some cries, and speedily expires in convulsions. The most striking and constant phenomenon observed after death, is the presence of air and frothy blood in the heart, and also very frequently in every part of the circulatory apparatus. There are a number of cases on record of patients dying on the operating table, from air entering a divided vein; and many other instances of sudden and unexpected death in similar circumstances, which were at the time of their4 occurrence considered inexplicable, may, probably, with correctness, be referred to this cause ; and some instances of sudden death after parturition are now occasionally explain- ed on the supposition of air entering by the uterine sinuses. The not unfrequent occurrence of these untoward events renders our subject one of peculiar interest, independent of that which must ever be excited by the examination of so curious a point in physiology ; for the important inquiry is naturally suggested, can nothing be done in such emer- gencies ? But this question cannot be satisfactorily an- swered at present ; for till we have seen the order in which the vital processes are arrested, we cannot hope to be able to discover a method of averting this catastrophe. The baneful eflPects of the injection of air into the blood vessels were known to Wepfer and others among the older pathologists,* but it was Dupuy tren who first pointed it out as the cause of some of those sudden deaths which take place during surgical operations, and since his observa- tions on this subject have been published, a number of such cases have been described by surgeons in Great Britain, on the Continent, and in America. Wepfer killed an ox by blowing into the jugular vein, and is believed to be the first who made such an experiment. As far as I am aware, the physiological effects caused by the introduction of air into the veins, were first made the subject of experiment in this country by Brown Langrish, and described by him to the Royal Society of London about the year 1746. This enthusiastic experimental physiolc- • The following, among the older authors, have noticed this sub- ject, viz. Wepfer, Redi, Bohn, Vander, Camernrius, Brunner, Harder, Sprcegel, Lieutand, Morgagni, SpaUanzani, Valsalva, Rudolpbi, &c.5 gist arrived at the conclusion to which Nysten so long after- wards came, viz. that the circulation is arrested in the heart. Langrish, ujjon opening the thorax of a dog, which he had killed in a few seconds by " propelling sulphurous air towards the heart " through the jugular vein, found, the right auricle and ventricle greatly distended with air and almost destitute of blood. The cavities of the left side wero collapsed. Believing " that the death of the dog was owing to the resistance which the air gave to the return of the blood through the venae cavae, and not to any particular action of the sulphureous fumes on the blood itself," he threw a similar quantity of pure air into the jugular vein of another dog, and found that death ensued as suddenly as in the previous case.* As there is no account given of the post mortem appearances, we may conclude that they were similar to those found in the first experiment. In more recent times the subject has been investigated by Bichat, Magendie, Nysten, Piednagel, Leroy, Wing, and others. There is a great deal of discrepancy of opinion among these authors, and we shall now examine the respective merits of the various theories which they have propounded, Bichat believed that death was occasioned by the contact of air with the brain ; Nysten maintains that the arrest- ment of the vital functions depends upon the distension of the right side of the heart with air—that death commences at the right side, and that the cessation of the contractions of the left is a secondary result. Leroy at one time sup- posed that emphysema of the lungs is the sole cause of death ; but he afterwards modified this opinion, and sug- • Pliysiciil Experiments upon Brutes, p. 152. Lond. 1740.6 gested the three following ways in which death may take place from the introduction of air into the veins : 1st, By affecting the sensibility of the brain, or by acting mechani- cally upon that organ : 2d, By producing sudden emphys- ema of the lungs : and, lastly. By depriving the heart of arterial blood. Piednagel conceives that a change in the structure of the lungs is the principal cause of death.* Magendie at one time held that emphysema of the lungs was one of the causes of death ; but as he does not allude to it in the most recent publication where he notices this sub- ject, it seems probable that he now agrees with Nysten, es-' pecially as he brings forward nothing but what indicates such an acquiescence. The opinion of Bichat, that the air acts as a poison on the brain, appears to have been the result of hasty or inaccu- rate observation ; an opinion which we seem fully warrant- ied in expressing, when we find this distinguished physio- logist stating so egregious an error as that a single bubble of air produces an instantaneously fatal result. This theory is based upon the following facts and observations: 1st, The circulation goes on for some time after the intro- duction of air into the veins : 2d, Air propelled upon the brain through one of the carotids causes death : 3d, Con- vulsions precede death : 4th, The venous capillaries are full of blood mixed with air; and, fifthly. He considers the cases of sudden death mentioned by Morgagni, in which air was found in the vessels of the brain, as strengthening his theory. Subsequent inquiries appear to give almost no support to • Joui n. de Physiol. Tome ix p. 70, ct seq7 the views of Bichat; and indeed these statements furnish but a poor foundation for the sweeping theory which he has attempted to rear upon them. Perhaps his strongest fact is, that death is preceded by convulsions ;—phenomena which must unquestionably arise in consequence of an impression made upon the central organs of the nervous system. But then, it may be fairly asked, are not these convulsions secondary results ? They occur in almost every case of violent death, and in numerous instances can be clearly traced to a pri- mary affection of the heart or lungs. Leroy alleges that convulsive movements are rarely to be witnessed. It may occasionally happen that they are not seen, but I am per- fectly satisfied that, in at least the great majority of cases, they do take place. In most of the cases in the human subject, which occurred during operations, there is express mention made of them, (as well as in experiments made upon animals) ; and when the circumstance is not noticed we have no right to conclude that it did not take place. I have been assured by my friend Mr. Dick of the veterinary school of this place, that although he has killed many horses by blowing air into the veins, he does not recollect of a single instance in which death was not preceded by violent convulsions. But be this as it may, the presence of the phenomenon in question cannot be held as proving that the brain is the organ primarily affected ; for it is obvious, that in whatever manner the supply of blood to the brain is suddenly diminished convulsions follow. The notion of some, that a sudden emphysema of the lungs is the cause of death, at first sight appears plaus- ible, and is certainly very ingenious; but upon cxamina-8 tion it will, I think, be found untenable. When a large quantity of air was thrown directly into the right auricle by Piednagel and Magendie, the former states that respiration all at once ceased, and the heart's pulsations became strong and rapid. On dissection, the lungs were emphysematous and the right side of the heart distended with air, the left cavities containing only a little frothy blood. Piednagel gives the following account of the manner in which he supposes these appearances to be produced. He conceives that the air contained in the air cells, by means of its pressure prevents that mixed with the blood in the minute ramifications of the pulmonary artery from passing onwards ; that this resistance which the heart meets with in attempting to propel the blood through the lungs, acts as a stimulus upon it, and by redoubling the force of its contractions, breaks up the tissue of the lungs. It is urged as an argument in favour of emphysema being the cause of death, that air when introduced gradually and in small quantities produces very slight effects. But it is obvious that it by no means follows, that when death does suddenly take place from the entrance of a large quantity of air, it is caused by emphysema of the lungs. In the first place, emphysema is far from being a constant appearance, as will appear from cases and experiments to be detailed; and when found it can be accounted for in a much more simple way than that proposed by Piednagel. Dr. Wing killed a rabbit in a few seconds by the for- cible injection of air into the external jugular vein, and upon opening the chest the lungs were found collapsed ; and besides it is stated, that in every respect they were in9 a natural condition.* I have suddenly distended the right auricle in the manner described by Magendie and Piedna- gel, but emphysema of the lungs was hardly ever observed, though the experiment was often repeated. In one or two cases the structure of the lungs certainly seemed somewhat broken up, but this might be, and in all proba- bility was, produced by the convulsive attempts at respira- tion which preceded death, just as happens in many cases of poisoning with strychnia and other substances. No one, so far as I am aware, has attempted to shew that the amount of emphysema found in animals killed with air, is sufficient of itself to produce a sudden and vio- lent death. Till this is done, the theory of Leroy, and others on this subject, must be considered visionary, since all the facts with which we are acquainted, are obviously op- posed to it. It is impossible to distinguish between old and recent emphysema, so that in some of the instances in which it has been found, there is reason to suppose that it may have been of some considerable standing. We know that people with very extensive emphysema of the lungs, may attain an advanced old age without necessarily suffering any great inconvenience, but what bears still more upon this point is, that extensive and sudden emphysema is often occasioned by a fit of whoop- ing cough, and yet we see no symptoms produced analogous to those caused by the entrance of air into the veins. From all these considerations, then, the hypothesis of Leroy, Ma- gendie, and others on this subject, appear wholly unsup- ported by facts, and must consequently be abandoned. " Boston Med. and Surg. Joiiin., as quoted in the Lan9ettc Fnui- yais. Mars, 18-35.That the air sometimes proves fatal, by depriving the heart of its supply of arterial blood through the coronary, arteries, appears to be a very visionary doctrine, and I can- not recollect any facts which give it even a semblance of truth.* With a view of elucidating the question proposed for consideration in this chapter, the following experiments were performed. Experiment.—The subject of this experiment was a horse about seventeen hands high, and in pretty good condition, but which was condemned to death on account of an incurable cancer of the foot. A tube, a quarter of aa inch in diameter, was introduced into the left jugular vein. The man who blew, filled his chest twice, and continued to blow for a minute. He then stopped on account of the symptoms of uneasiness which the animal exhibited. In a few seconds the horse staggered and fell, and in three minutes from the commencement of the introduction of air, was quite dead. During the period he survived after fall- ing, he made great and violent efforts to inspire, and during that time, was strongly convulsed, the convulsions com- mencing soon after he fell. It was computed that he lost about eight quarts of blood, which is the quantity usually taken at an ordinary venesection. , Seclio.—Air was fotind in every visible vein over the whole body. The chest was opened an hour and a half * Another very questionable doctrine is that of Pigeaux, who denies that the entrance of air is the sole cause of death, and considers tliat much of the deleterious consequences may be attributed to the injury sustained by the small nervous branches. Surely this is absurd. Gaz. Med. -.28 Mars 18D3.11 after death, when the lungs were seen collapsed, and in no degree emphysematous. All the cavities of the heart, but particularly the right auricle, were distended, and had a tense elastic feel. The right side was first examined. The auricle was enormously distended, and upon a small opening being made with the scalpel, frothy blood, with which this cavity seemed to be entirely filled, instantly rushed out. The greater part of the ventricle was filled with fluid and coagulated blood, but there were also some in a frothed state. The left auricle contained frothy blood, and some coagulated masses. In the left ventricle the quantity of air was just sufficient to make its existence appreciable; but there was a great quantity of blood, both fluid and coagu- lated in this cavity.* Experiment.—A tube about equal in diameter to a crow quill was inserted into the right jugular vein of a rabbit. In the course of two minutes I introduced three or four full expirations. During this time the animal lay quite tran- quil, and did not struggle in the least, but the breathing was difficult, and the heart's action feeble and fluttering. Just as I desisted from blowing, I observed some slight convul- sive movements of the limbs, and in a few seconds more they recurred. Respiration had now ceased, and there were no more convulsions. The thorax was immediately laid open. Great venous congestion everywhere presented itself. The heart was enormously distended. Upon puncturing the right auricle and ventricle, air unmixed with blood is- sued forth, and in the auricle there was a good deal of • Dr. John Reid, and Mr. William Scott were present at the perform- ance of this experiment.12 frothy blood. The froth was not nearly of so light a con- sistence as in the former experiment, owing probably to the blood and air not having had sufficient time to be tho- roughly agitated together. The left side of the heart cott- tained fluid blood. It is worthy of remark, that the irrita- bility of the heart was almost extinct. Even though rapidly relieved of its load of blood and air, the contractions ex- cited by pricking it with the knife were unusually trifling. In the horse again, the contractions of the heart continued very forcible long after it had been cut out of the body. The lungs were next examined, and were found to be quite healthy. They were collapsed, and in no degree emphyse- matous. In the vena cava and some of the larger abdomi- nal veins, bubbles of air were observed, but in most of the other vessels examined, none could be detected.* Since in both of these experiments, the structure of the lungs was in no degree broken up, we must refer the cause of death either to the heart or to the brain. Now, in both in- stances, the convulsions indicating an affection of the brain, appear to havebeen secondary results, andtheimmediatecause of death, the stoppage or derangement of the heart's action, in consequence of an over distension of its walls. It is pro- bably in the agonies of death, and in those cases where the heart's action at that time becomes quickened, or, as is frequently the case, assumes an irregular or vermicular movement, that the frothing of the blood takes place. The appearance is by no means uniform, and I have seen the blood and air wholly unmixed. The following experiment shews, that air may be thrown • My frientl Mr. Tlioraas R. Scott assisted me in performing this experiment,13 into the jugular vein with great violence, and yet no em- physema be producecl. Experiment.—A tube was inserted in the jugular vein of a dog, and a large quantity of air introduced suddenly and with great force. The time occupied in this process was about six seconds, and at the end of this time, the vein was so distended with air, that no force employed caused any more to enter. I was just proceeding to tighten a ligature round the vessel, when the animal began to strug- gle, and after uttering some cries, expired in twelve seconds from the time the introduction of the air commenced. Secti'o.—The chest was immediately examined. The lungs presented their usual appearance. The heart was greatly distended, and from its engorged state was con- tracting very feebly. The right side of the heart was full of light frothy blood. The inferior cava contained little blood, but was much distended with air, as were to a great- er or less extent most of the venous trunks of any consider- able size. The coronary veins presented the same appear- ance as the inferior cava. In the veins of the hind legs there were only a few bubbles of air, but it was observed that all over the body there was great congestion of the venous system. There was no air in the left side of the heart. The obvious explanation of these phenomena is, that the air had been sent directly through the right auri- cle into the inferior vena cava and coronary veins; for its absence from the left side of the heart clearly indicates that what was found in the veins had not made the round of the circulation. From this experiment then it appears that very great force may be used without producing any em-14 physema, and it may be added as a ciicumstancc worthy of note, that there was but little frothy blood in the pul- monary artery.* The phenomena both before and after death described as having been seen in those individuals who have died sud- denly on the operating table, owing to the accidental ad- mission of air, fully bear out the views now stated. The first case of the kind which attracted general attention, happened in Paris in 1818. It is particularly interesting and valuable, from the circumstance that the appearances detected on dissection were quite different from those ex- pected :—the belief being that the right sac of the pleura would be found full of air. Beauchere was removing a tumour from the right shoulder. When detaching the last adherent portion with the bistoury, a peculiar sound was suddenly heard, similar to that caused by the entrance of air through a small open- ing into the thorax of a living animal. It was the opinion of all present that the pleura had been wounded. The pa- tient exclaimed, " mon sang tombe dans mon cocur ! jc suis mortr—he became pale, his head fell backwards, the eyes were fixed, and he could not distinguish objects. Respiration was easy but loud, and seemed to be performed chiefly by the left lung ; the movementson the right side of the chest being very ' • One not acquainted with the appearance usually presented by the lungs of rabbits, might easily suppose that there was emphysema when that organ was nevertheless in its ordinary condition. For what seems to be the healthy state of the rabbit's lungs bears a very close resemblance to emphysema in the human subject. It is therefore not so satisfactory to make this experiment on a rabbit. In the above experiment I was assist- ed by my friends Messrs. Thomas R. Scott, and William Scott.15 feeble. The pulse was extremely small, frequent, hard, and irregular. The whole body was covered with a cold sweat, and he had some convulsions. All restorative measures failed, and the patient died a quarter of an hour after the fatal cut had been given. On examining the body eighteen hours after death, the chest was found to contain a quantity of red coloured serum. Thelungs were free from all disease; — they crepitated and filled both thoracic cavities. There was no opening into the right pleura. On examining the seat of the operation, it was found that the jugular vein had been wounded. In factj a portion of this vessel (half its calibre, and an inch in length,) had been cut out. The wound in the jugular, terminated just as it joined the subclavian vein. The superior vena cava contained no blood ; its internal membrane was red. The pericardium was filled with serosity. None of the ca- ivities of the heart contained any blood. The left side seem- ed to be in a natural state;—perhaps the ventricle was a little thickened. The walls of the right cavities were flabby, very thin, pale, and of a much greater calibre than those of the opposite side. The brain presented a grey appearance, and all its blood vessels of a size sufficient to be visible, were distended with air. The aorta, crural arteries, and in- ferior vena cava contained air mixed with blood. An event of a similar nature to that now detailed, hap- pened at the Hotel Dieu in Paris in 1822, when Dupuytren was removing a tumour from a girl's neck. A sound simi- lar to that heard in the former case, led the operator to re- mark that had he been cutting in the neighbourhood of the air passages he would have supposed that he had made an opening into some of them. No sooner had he said this.and at the same time given the last stroke of the knife which concluded the separation of the tumour, when the patient exclaimed, / arn (Jj/ing, was seized with a general trembling, and quickly expired. All the usual methods resorted to for the recovery i'rom syncope and asphyxia were tried without any success, though persevered in for several hours. Sectio.—The body was examined twenty-four hours after death, and the right auricle was found distended with air so as to give it an elastic tension, and when an incision was made through its parietes, the air escaped in great quantity with- out any admixture of blood ; it nevertheless contained a small quantity of uncoagulated blood. The other cavities of the heart (which were healthy,) the arteries and veins throughout the body, and the membranes of the brain, con- tained fluid blood mixed with air. The lungs were red, pliable, crepitant, elastic, and perfectly healthy. There was no wound in the trachea. The serous membranes of the brain were thin and transparent, without serosity and with- out injection. Its tissue was firm, uninjected, and with the colours well marked. Red spots were observed on the stomach, some of them evidently owing to injection of the capillaries. The muscles were firm and red. In neither of these cases are there any facts of importance to support the hypothesis of Bichat. The presence of air in the vessels of the brain sinks into insignificance, when wc dis- cover that it is also found in every minute artery and vein all over the body. The existence of emphysema of the lungs in Beauchere's case, may fairly be considered as purely acci- dental. In the operation cases detailed, as well as others of a similar nature on record, it was in all probability produced by17 the artificial respiration had recourse to. It is almost iiii'- possible to perform this process, without to a greater or less extent breaking up the air cells. Both in my own hands and in others more expert, I have uniformly seen some amount of emphysema produced when endeavours were made to recover animals by means of artificial respiration. Perhaps it is from serious injury being done to the lungs, that so few infants resuscitated by this method survive more than-a few days ; and there is much reason to fear, that the rude apparatus frequently employed by unskilful persons for the recovery of those apparently drowned, is the cause of so little advantage being derived from artificial respiration in such cases. The following case may be classed along with those of Beauchere and Dupuytren already described. When Mr. Barlow of Blackburn, Lancashire, was removing a tumour from the side of the neck of a delicate lady, and was " pro-i ceeding to dissect aside the skin to get at the basis of the tumour, a sudden and unexpected hissing gurgling noise rushed obviously from a large divided empty vein, and the patient expired instantly, without either sigh, groan, or struggle, and every effort to restore animation was fruit- less. This unexpected event," Mr. Barlow goes on to re- mark, " was truly appalling to all present, for scarcely an ounce of blood was lost on the occasion, and her death was then wholly attributed to a state of debility and syncope, which opinion I acknowledge remained unchanged till I accidentally met with the case of Dupuytren,"* A fatal case of a similar nature occurred to Dr. Warren of Harward University, when removing a cancerous mam- • Med. Chirurg. Trans., vol. xvi., p. 29. c18 ma. The vein through which the air entered was the subscapular. As the phenomena preceding death were quite similar to those already described, and as there was no post mortem examination, a detail of the case would throw no additional light on the subject, and is conse- quently omitted.* There are various circumstances which render it possible that in some instances in which women die unexpectedly after parturition, and when all seems going on well, death is owing to air entering the circulation by means of the open mouths of the veins communicating with the uterine sinuses.-f These orifices, immediately after the separation of the decidua, are very large. They have been made the subject of inves- tigation by many modern as well as old anatomists and ob- stetricians, and upon the whole the various descriptions cor- respond. Burton says, that the uterine sinuses " in the ninth month of gravitation are so large as to admit the end of the biggest finger; and their orifices that open into the cavity of the womb, wUl at the same time admit the end of the little finger."^ Now the uterus not unfrequently contracts and expands alternately with considerable energy after the expulsion of the foetus, and it is quite reasonable to suppose that air may sometimes be sucked into the gaping mouths of the uterine * Medical Gazette, vol. xii., p. 270—Case of Nancy Bunker. f Olivier, in the article Air in the Diet, de Med., (2nd edit.) asks whether those cases of unexpected death after parturition may not be ex- plained in this way. $ New System of Midmfery, p. 19. Ed. 1751. Dr. R. Lee claims the discovery of these openings. The above quotation shews that he is in error in doing so. Vide Med. Gaz., vol. xii., p. 202, where priority of discovery is discussed.19 vessels, in sufficient quantity to prove fatal to a female ex- hausted with the fatigues of labour. Le Gallois mentions three female animals, upon which he was making experiments with a view of observing the ef- fects of abstinence and loss of blood, in which sudden death took place from air entering the circulation by the uterine veins.* Baudelocque-f states, that in examining the bodies of patients who had died of uterine haemorrhagy in the hospi- tal of La Maternite, he constantly found a gaseous sub- stance in the arteries. This he assigns (apparently without any reason) as the cause of the convulsions which precede death. He states that he has no doubt but that the gas is spontaneously generated. This opinion may or may not be correct, for it is at least possible that the air may be ad- mitted from without, since the bleeding depends upon the imperfect closing of these sinuses ; and as in cases of uterine haemorrhagy after labour, convulsive contraction and dilata- tion of the uterus is not uncommon, the possibility of death being occasioned by the air drawn in by this sucking power is at least entitled to consideration. It must be admitted, however, that with the scanty light which the records of pathology are yet able to throw upon this point, it would be rash to give any decided opinion upon the subject. In a case recorded by Leclerc (and which occurred in the practice of Dubois and Boyer), we can hardly conceive that the air was drawn in by the process above suggested. Madame B , a delicate lady, who had for some time suffered from a dull pain in the left inguinal region, was " Ann. Hebdom. de Med., vol. iii., p. 183. Paris, 1829. f Traite des Hemor. Intenies de 1'Uterus, p. 66. Bruxelles, 1832.20 suddenly seized with hsemorrhagy from one of the uterine vessels, and died in the course of three hours. Upon exa- mination of the body, various morbid appearances were noticed; but what particularly demands attention is, that there was no blood in the heart, that the inferior vena cava contained air alone, and that the peritoneum was in some places emphysematous.* There is no mention made as to the interval which elapsed between death and the examination, nor is it stated at what season of the year the event took place; so that it does not appear with what degree of probability the presence of air in the blood-vessels may be explained by supposing that decomposition of the blood had taken place. It must also be remembered, that in death from haemorrhagy, it is not unusual to find air in the veins. Mery states, that if the blood of an animal be drained out from an opening in the inferior vena cava, the veins fill with air in proportion as they empty of blood, and that the air comes from the smaller into the larger veins."f* Nysten says that this is by no means a constant result, and that it depends upon the size of the opening made in the vessel.^ I have repeated Mery's experiment, but found no air at all in the circula- tion, though the aperture in the vein was large. Another question suggested by the above considerations is, whether air generated within the body during life is not sometimes the immediate cause of death ; but this topic is not here discussed, because it appears that it may be more naturallv attended to afterwards. * Archives Gen. de Med., xviii.; p. 281. t Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences, an. 1707. p. 167. X Nysten, op. cit p. 4.21 In conclusion then, it may be stated as clearly established, that when a quantity of air, by entering the circulation, proves suddenly fatal, the immediate cause of the arrest- ment of the vital functions is the inability of the right side of the heart to contract and expel its elastic contents ; and therefore, all the phenomena which follow are consequences of this first cause.* " Accidents in consequence of the entrance of air into the circulation, have occurred to the following operators: Sir A. Cooper; Mr. Barlow of Lancashire; Mr. Simmonds of Manchester; Dupuytren, Beauchere, Clemot, and Roux, of Paris; Drs. Mott and Stevens of New York; Dr. Warren of Hai ward, U, S. ; Dr. Castara of Lundville ; Delpech of Montpellier ; Graefe of Berlin ; Goullard of Lyons; and doubtless to many others, by whom the cases have not been put on record. Indeed it is surprising, that so many of these accidents should have been pub- lished, during the comparatively short period that has elapsed, since Dupuytren first turned the attention of the medical world to the subject.22 CHAPTER II. CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH MODIFY THE EFFECTS. OBSERVA- TIONS ON CASES IN WHICH DEATH DID NOT TAKE PLACE, OR WAS A SECONDARY RESULT. It has already been stated, that very considerable quantities of air may be introduced into the circulation without pro- ducing death. The concurrent testimony of a variety of experimenters establishes this beyond the possibility of doubt. Sometimes the patient to whom the accident happens, or the animal experimented upon, suffers only transient incon- venience, or makes a complete recovery, and in other in- stances death ensues so late as some days after the admis- sion of the air. Two very interesting subjects of investiga- tion are thus presented to our notice. In the first place, what are those circumstances which thus modify the result ? And then, what is the nature of the modifications which occur under these varying circumstances .'' First, then, let us attend to the different modifying causes. These appear chiefly to be referable to three heads : 1st, the quantity of air adviitted;—2nd, the rapidity of its admission ;—and, 3rd, the situation of the orifice through which it enters. For the sake of perspicuity, each of these points will be separately illustrated.23 1st, That the result is modified to a very great extent by the quantity of air admitted, it is unnecessary to insist upon at any length. The experiments of Nysten, Magendie, Wing, and others, clearly shew that it is only when intro- duced in considerable quantity that there is a fatal issue. This I have satisfied myself of by repeated experiments. The same fact has also been stated by Dr. Blundel, in his memoir on the transfusion of blood. It is probable that when slowly introduced, the oxygen is either in whole or in part absorbed, and the volume of the elastic fluid thus ma- terially diminished. That such absorption does really take place there can be no doubt, for the experiments of Dr. Christison distinctly prove that the oxygenation of the blood is a purely chemical process, and that even out of the body venous blood absorbs a large quantity of oxygen, and changes its purple for a florid hue.* Nysten infers from various experiments that some of the injected gas may be thrown oflp by the lungs. It appears, however, that a large quantity of air may enter the heart, and nevertheless no such phenomena be manifested, as took place in those cases and experiments already detailed. This statement is founded upon the fol- lowing Experiment. Six or seven full expirations were injected through a small tube into the jugular veins of two dogs. A little difficulty of breathing ensued, but this soon passed away. At the end of half an hour the animals were killed, having up to that time seemed pretty lively, and exhibited t Edinb. Med. and Surg, Jourii. Jan. 1831.24 almost no symptoms of uneasiness. Upon examining the chest immediately after death, the lungs were in both in- stances found collapsed, and devoid of emphysema. The heart particularly in one instance was greatly distended with air, and had an elastic feel. In both instances, when the scalpel was thrust into each of the cavities of the heart, a little air unmingled with blood rushed out with a whizzing noise. Not the slightest trace of frothing could be de- tected—a circumstance which by the way, it may be remark- ed, tends to corroborate the notion formerly suggested, that the frothing of the blood is caused by the irregular motions of the heart which sometimes immediately precede or fol- low death.* In the experiments described in the first chapter, almost the whole calibre of the vein was occupied with the tube, and death ensued in a very few minutes, whereas in the cases of the two dogs just detailed, a good deal of blood was allowed to flow down the vessel along with the air, and hence it was, I apprehend, that the baneful effects were so little apparent. 2d, It may be stated as a general conclusion, that the greater the rapidity with which the air is introduced, and the greater the diavietcr of the tube through which it passes, so much the more sudden and deleterious is the result. This appears obvious from various statements already made, and it is therefore unnecessary in this place to supply additional illustrations. In those cases of operation in which a fatal termination almost immediately ensued, it seems evident, that owing to * My assistants in performing this experiment were Drs. J. Y. Simp- gon, and J. H. Pollexfen, and Mr. William Scott.25 a thickening of the coats of the vein, or from other causes afterwards to be stated, the vessels were unable to collapse; and if thus kept in a patulous state, it is easy to conceive how rapidly the right side of the heart would become dis- tended with air; for it is clear, that when a vessel in such a state is cut across, air, and air only, would pass down it. The effect produced when great force is used in blowing, is well illustrated by the experiment upon a dog, mentioned in the first chapter, (p. 13.) In that case, the right side of the heart was suddenly and violently distended with air, and death took place with the greatest conceivable rapidity. It was probably owing to the great force used, that the following experiment proved fatal; for certainly the small quantity of air injected was not of itself sufficient to pro- duce the result. M. Bassereaux, when assisting Dr. Bre- tonneaux to inject pus into the jugular veins of dogs, hap- pened upon one occasion, imperfectly to fill the syringe. The canula was introduced into the vein, and the piston pressed down ; but before the liquid had entered the circula- tion, (and dissection shewed that not a drop of pus had been injected) both gentlemen heard a distinct " gargouille- menty The experiment was instantly stopped, and in half a minute the animal fell down on its side, in strong convul- sions. The respiration was laboured and stertorous, and death took place in two minutes. Upon dissection, only a few bubbles of air were found in the right auricle, which was almost entirely gorged with blood. The principal ob- ject of mentioning this case is, that unless explained in some such way as has now been done, it might possibly be adduced in favour of the doctrine of Bichat. 3(/, The only other modifying circumstance proposed for26 consideration, is the situation of the orifice through which the air enters. Magendie made the curious discovery, that when air is injected into one of the branches of the Ve7ia portce, no in- convenience seems to result from the operation. This must obviously depend upon some change which the air under- goes in its passage through the portal circulation. It is either absorbed, or so intimately mixed with the blood, as to be rendered incapable of causing any impediment to the circulation. Experiment. I threw a quantity of air into one of the mesenteric veins of a rabbit, and in eight minutes after- wards killed the animal. The liver was in a state of al- most complete anaemia, and upon slicing it, minute bubbles of air appeared at every point on the incised surfaces. There was no air apparent in the heart, nor in any part of the body, except the liver.* Having thus very briefly considered the principal cir- cumstances which modify the effects resulting from the ad- mission of air into the circulation, it still remains for us to attend to the precise nature of the modifications presented under these varying circumstances. We have seen that quantity modifies the result to a very great extent; but to what extent I am unable to state, as I have killed one animal with much less than was required to destroy another, apparently similar in strength and size. As a vast number of experiments would have been neces- sary, before any thing like a satisfactory average result • Assistants in this experiment—Mr. Thomas R. Scott, and Mr. William Scott.27 could be obtained, I was not long in perceiving the neces- sity of (in the meantime at least) abandoning this part ol" the investigation. But this was done with less reluctance, as the point did not appear to be of very essential import- ance, and seemed to be one which, whatever trouble might be bestowed upon it, could after all only be elucidated to a certain extent. Very violent effects may be produced by the injection of air into a vein, and yet the animal operated upon may spontaneously recover. For example, Dr. Wing threw by degrees a considerable quantity into the jugular vein of a sheep. At each stroke of the piston of the syringe, a gurg- ling sound was heard in the heart, there was slight diffi- culty in breathing, and strong convulsions. The experi- ment occupied ten minutes. When the animal was re- leased at the end of this time, he manifested a desire to eat, and mixed with the rest of the flock.* Similar experi- ments have been previously described by Nysten and others. Those cases which prove fatal after the lapse of some days, affi)rd a most interesting and important subject of inquiry. In some instances death is owing, as Nysten's experiments prove, to an affection of the lungs. This able experimenter states, that when the air is not in sufficiently large quantity to put a stop to the vital functions, by ar- resting the contractions of the right side of the heart, it is forced into the minute ramifications of the pulmonary artery, thus producing such obstruction as causes bronchitis, which may terminate in death ; and it appears that this event some- times happens so late as the third or fourth day. In a case belonging to this class, the following are the post mortem • Boston Med. and Surg. Journ,, as quoted in Lan9ette Fran(,aise, Mai 1835.28 appearances described, the examination having been made two hours after death. The pleuree presented their natural appearance, but the lungs were of a greyish colour, mixed with brown spots, somewhat gorged with blood, and much distended with frothy mucus. There was not a single bubble of air in the heart, nor in any of the blood vessels. Both ventricles contained blood, and in these cavities there were small yellow semi-transparent concretions. Nysten ob- served a similar state of the lungs in repeated experiments of the same nature.* I was anxious to verify these experiments of Nysten, but was never lucky enough to obtain a case at all resembling those which he details as perishing from secondary thoracic symptoms, though I had several instances of spontaneous re- storation to health, after the injection of a large quantity of air. There was one rabbit in which I fully anticipated something such as he describes, but complete and speedy recovery took place. This is an account of the Experiment.—A large quantity of air was injected into the jugular vein. Very violent effects were produced, so violent indeed, that the animal seemed for twenty minutes to be in a moribund, or at least in a very critical state. To our astonishment, however, it gradually came round, and in about an hour the respiration, which was at first very la- boured, became tolerably natural, and the rabbit was soon little out of sorts. In a few hours afterwards the breathing, as far as I could judge, was quite natural, and the animal ate food with avidity. I kept it for sixteen days, and never observed anything wrong, excepting an abscess which formed in the seat of the operation. • Nysten, op, cit. p. 36, &c.29 Upon dissection, immediately after killing it, the lungs were found to be perfectly healthy, and there was no air in any of the blood vessels.* It is the opinion of some, that death may take place after the lapse of some days from the time the air has entered the vessels, and yet be attended with all the striking phe- nomena usually presented when the fatal event is an imme- diate consequence. I am not aware of any facts which at all justify such a supposition, but since the notion is enter- tained by some, it is proper to mention it in this place. The following case is interesting, though unfortunately it does not throw any very positive light upon this part of the subject, since, by assuming either view as correct, the phenomena may be satisfactorily explained. It is as much, therefore, with a view of shewing that although the most formidable symptoms have been manifested, and immediate death seems almost inevitable, the patient may notwith- standing speedily rally; thus pressing upon our attention the important fact, that if the heart be in any way suffi- ciently disencumbered of the air, it may regain its natural action, and "the circulation, after having been all at once violently disordered, and almost arrested, may in a few mi- nutes go on as before the accident. This points out the important practical bearing of our inquiries, and holds out a good ground of hope that some useful rules may be sug- gested, by an attentive consideration of this branch of the subject. But to proceed.—M. Roux, when removing a tumour situated on the cellular sheath surrounding the common carotid artery, jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve, " I was assisted in this experiment by Mr. T. R. Scott, and Mr. W. Scott.30 made an opening into the jugular vein. Upon inspection after death, it was found that the vein had been wounded transversely, and that on account of the morbid thickening of its walls, the inferior aperture was gaping. At the mo- ment the operator lifted up the tumour to enable him to dissect it out, a sort of whistling noise was heard, like that produced by the entrance of air into the empty receiver of an air pump. The patient uttered a plaintive cry, and be- came greatly agitated—the contractions of the heart were hurried, the pulse was weak, respiration long and la- boured, and at length, after one protracted inspiration, fol- lowed by a short and hasty expiration, symptoms of approaching death were manifested. By preventing the admission of any more air, and the employment of frictions, and stimulants to the nostrils, and dashing water on the face, the circulation and respiration were restored. The dissection was discontinued, and the tumour enclosed in a double ligature. All went on well till the seventh day, but on that morning the patient suffered from oppression, diffi- culty of speech, then from coma, and died during the night. Sectio. The eighth pair of nerves were uninjured. Both lungs were slightly congested, and emphysematous spots were observed under the pulmonary pleura. The cavities of the heart were empty. On puncturing the abdominal and thoracic aorta in different places, a great many bubbles of air escaped, mixed with bloody serum, and the same could be observed, but in less quantity, in the iliac arte- ries.* There was no air in the vessels of the brain. The narrator of this case asks whether the non-occurrence • Abridged from the Dublin Jourii. of Med. and Chem. Science, \'ol. iv. p. 475. Vide also ruyderaCs account of this case in the Journ. Univ. et Hebdom. Tome xi. p. 165.31 of death till the seventh day was owing to the small quan- tity of air admitted during the operation, or to a fresh quantity having got in immediately before death, owing to the inferior opening of the vessel still remaining gaping on the surface of the wound. He conceives that the frothy serum found in the bronchial cells, and the emphysematous spots noticed under the pulmonary pleura, render the latter supposition plausible, but even granting that the emphyse- ma was produced by the air which entered the wounded vein, it is just as likely to have been caused at the operation as afterwards, and as for the frothy serum, it is by no means an unusual post mortem appearance in most diseases. The absence of the laboured breathing and other characteristic phenomena described as ushering in death, from the admis- sion of air into the veins, throws a good deal of obscurity over the nature of the case, and appears to render it highly probable that there were some causes operating which do not appear in the narrative. Might not the oppression and coma depend on something quite different from air in the circulation, such as phlebitis, or inflammation of some important organ ? Be that as it may, the air might have entered, owing to the slipping of the bandages, immediately before, or to a certain extent during the death struggles. It appears, at all events, that although sudden death does not follow the admission of air, and immediate danger be averted, there are disasters still to be dreaded, the most im- portant of which are inflammation of the lungs, and the admission of more air, to which may perhaps also be added the danger of phlebitis, in consequence of the injury done to the vein in the operation, or owing to the violence of the measures adopted to prevent immediate death.32 CHAPTER III. ON THE CAUSE OF THE ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS DI- VIDED DURING OPERATIONS ; WITH SOME CONSIDERA- TIONS ON THE MEANS MOST LIKELY TO AVERT DEATH IN SUCH CASES. The only eondition absolutely necessary for the admis- sion of air during an operation is, that the vein be kept in a patulous state, for when in this condition, the movements of the chest in respiration (assisted perhaps by the tendency in the right auricle to form a vacuum during its diastole) are sufficient to cause the air to enter. This may at least be inferred from Sir David Barry's experiments. He shewed, that during inspiration a suction influence is ex- erted upon the blood in the veins entering the chest. Now when this suction is exerted upon the contents of a wounded vein, incapable of collapsing from disease of its coats or any other cause, these contents, whatever physical proper- ties they present, must be under the influence of the same law which was pointed out by Sir David Barry with regard to the blood in unopened vessels. Should the vein be completely severed, it is evident that air, and air only, will pass down to the heart; but if, on the other hand, it be merely wounded, there will be a mixture of blood and air.33 The patulous state of the vein may depend on two causes :—Ist, The vessel may be gaping in consequence of a rigidity of the coats caused by disease; or, 2rad, It may be kept open by the constrained position of the pa- tient, or the manipulations of the operator and his assistants. M. Berard, I am aware, ascribes the phenomenon chiefly to the anatomical peculiarities of the vessels, independent of disease.* He has shewn that the large veins near the heart have fasciae closely adherent to their coats, and that these fasciae are attached to bones. This connexion, he be- lieves, is of such a nature as to prevent the collapse of the veins. One decided objection to this explanation is, that the entrance of air by no means always follows a wound of these vessels ; and seeing that the admission of air is not a necessary consequence of a wound of a vein provided with such a fascia, how can it be established that this fascia is in any one instance the cause of the entrance of air ? The anatomical facts, then, pointed out by Berard cannot be regarded as at all explaining why veins sometimes remain uncoUapsed, in spite of the suction power of the heart and chest, and the influence of atmospheric pressure; but they may, however, be viewed as to a certain extent favouring the occurrence of the phenomenon. It is not, however, only by the great vessels in the neck that air has been known to get in. Air entered the saphena of a patient upon whom Dupuytren was operating; and when Clemot was removing a tumour from the breast of a female, it entered a divided vein, and in consequence of this, the woman died a few hours after the operation. Upon dissection, the right side of the heart was ascertained " Archives Gericrales de Med. Juiii., 1836.34 to be distended with air.* " In an attempt which I made," says Di'. Mott, " to remove the parotid gland in an en- larged and schirrous state, the. facial vein where it passes over the base of the lower jaw was opened, in dissecting the integuments from the tumour in the early stage of the operation, before a single artery was tied. At the instant this vessel was opened, the attention of all present was ar- rested by the gurgling sound of air passing into some small opening. The breathing of the patient immediately became difficult and laborious. The heart beat violently and irregu- larly, his features were distorted, convulsions of the whole body soon followed to so great an extent, as to make it im- possible to keep him on the table. He lay upon the floor in this condition for near half an hour, as all supposed in arliculo mortis. " As the convulsions gradually left him, his mouth was permanently distorted, and complete hemiplegia was found to have ensued ; an hour or more elapsed before he could articulate, and it was nearly a whole day before he recovered the use of his arm and leg."-|* In most cases on record, we may infer, from the descrip- tions given, that there was a diseased state of the coats of the • Lanyette Fran9aise, 30th Nov. 1830. Clemot there details the particulars of two other accidents of a similar nature, which occurred in his own practice. In one case he was dissecting out a tumour from the axilla, and in the other tying the subclavian artery. Goullard of Lyons, when removing indurated glands from the axilla, wounded the axillary vein. Only a small quantity of blood was lost; but in an instant the patient became pale, the muscles of the face were convulsed, hiccup came on, which in a few minutes was followed by death. There was no post mortem examination. Duplat Gaz. Mi^d., Dec 1833. ■\ Med. Chirurg. Journ. Lond. vol. xvi. p. 33.35 vessels ; but at the same time, a peculiar and constrained position of the parts might, as has already been stated, keep a vein in such a state as to allow of a large quantity of air being sucked into it. Such is the explanation which must be given of the appearances observed in the case of a student who committed suicide in this city some months ago, by cutting his throat. There was almost no blood lost; and upon examination, the heart was found to contain air in all its cavities. I am informed there was no thick- ened condition of the veins of the neck observed. In the transfusion of blood, air may be, and doubtless often has been injected into a vein; but if the operation is performed with very ordinary dexterity, it is difficult to ima- gine how a quantity sufficient to produce any disastrous con- sequences could be thrown in. Dr. Blundel, who has care- fully examined this point, says, that " it seems probable that the entrance of a few drachms of air into the vessels would be attended with considerable distress, and even dan- ger ; but it must be recollected, that if the operation be carefully performed by a competent person with a proper instrument, there can be no risk lest air should enter the vessels in large quantities ; and the probability is, that a bubble or two of air would occasion little if any inconve- nience."* The interest and importance of a physiological investiga- tion are greatly enhanced, when we enter upon it with a hope of being able to deduce useful rules of practice from our observations, and it is the belief of the author that his subject is possessed of this attraction. It has appeared, • Ashwcll's Practical Treatise on Parturition. Appendix by Dr. Blundel, p. 538. London, 1828.from what has aheady been advanced, that the deleterious effects resulting from the entrance of air during operations is purely mechanical, and that the death of the patient de- pends simply upon the contractions of the right side of the heart being arrested, or greatly impeded, in consequence of the presence of that elastic fluid. Hence it is naturally suggested, that the means most likely to afford safety to the patient will consist in relieving the heart with the greatest possible expedition—an inference, it may be remarked, which points out the practical importance of studying the order in which the vital functions become arrested. We are also strengthened in the hope, of being frequently able in this way to save the patient, by a knowledge of the astonishing advantages which result from opening the jugu- lar vein in certain cases of poisoning, in which the deleterious agent produces a sudden but merely transient arrestment of the contractions of the heart, and where death seems to re- sult from this state being rendered permanent, in conse- quence of the distention which has taken place during the period of temporary inaction. We generally find that in such cases, by timeously relieving the congestion of the heart, its contractions are in the course of a few seconds re- newed, and speedily go on with nearly their usual regu- larity ; but if this be not done, the animal generally dies very quickly, the circulation being greatly impeded, or wholly arrested by the mechanical distention of the heart with blood. The intervention of the valve does not prevent a reflux current, as might be supposed, so that this impor- tant principle admits of easy application, both in cases of en- gorgement with blood, as well as in those in which air is the distending agent.37 Haller, both in his Physiology, and in his treatise on the Movement of the Blood, distinctly states that the right side of the heart can be emptied by opening the jugular vein. He believed this to be entirely owing to derivation of blood, and as in no way dependent upon the contractions of the heart. This view was also adopted by Spallanzani, who repeated the experiments of Haller. The flow of blood from vessels opened at a distance from the centre of the cir- culation, certainly appears to depend entirely upon deriva- tion ; but when large veins near the heart are opened, there seems also to be another cause in operation. This was first stated by my friend Dr. John Reid, in a paper which he published in the 127th number of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. He conceives that the unloading of the heart, when the jugular vein is cut into, depends upon two causes; one of them being the derivation of Haller, and the other the contractions of the right side of the heart. In cases of extreme engorgement, the latter cause can only come into operation, as a consequence of the former. " At each contraction," Dr. Reid remarks, " the heart attempts to force a certain quantity of blood along the ves- sels connected with it, and as there is no vis a tcrgo to pre-*' vent the action of the heart moving the blood along the veins in its immediate neighbourhood, a certain quantity is forced out through the opening in the jugular." Of the accuracy of this I am perfectly satisfied, having witnessed the phenomenon in the experiments detailed by Dr. Reid, and also in the cases of different qnimals which I have since killed in various ways. I have endeavoured by a detail of experiments to show the advantage resulting from a copious depletion by the ju-38 gular vein, in cases of poisoning with Creosote.* I have since extended the inquiry to other poisons, and in particular have made farther observations for the" purpose of elucidating this point more fully with regard to Creosote and Prussic acid— substances which in large doses unquestionably prove fatal, by producing a sudden arrestment or derangement of the movements of the heart. Since the cause of death, both in poisoning with these substances, and from the entrance of a large quantity of air into the right side of the heart is the same, viz. the ina- bility of the heart to overcome the distention, it does not seem inappropriate to detail the following Experiment, which illustrates most beautifully the bene- ficial effects of copious depletion, when a poisonous dose of Prussic acid has been administered. A free opening was made in the jugular vein of an ordinary sized pointer dog, and hemorrhage prevented by means of pressure. A dose of Prussic acid was then administered, of such strength as to contain about a drop of the real acid. The animal be- came almost immediately affected, uttered some faint cries, in twenty seconds fell down and lay for a few seconds mo- tionless on the floor. He then began to struggle as if in the agonies of death ; but the vein now broke out, and the blood flowed in a rapid and copious stream. Immediately the dog shewed signs of returning vigour. He raised his head, then in a few seconds looked around him, and his eyes, which were formerly dim and suffused, regained their natu- ral lustre. From this time he rapidly recovered, and be- * Treatise on Creosote, pp. 84, 85, and 92. Edinburgh, 1836.39 gan to lick up his own blood. At the end of an hour he did not seem much out of sorts, and was then killed, the expe- riment being regarded as perfectly satisfactory. * That it really was so, I have not the slightest doubt. I have seen at least fifty or sixty dogs killed outright with Prussia acid—with doses often smaller, but seldom larger, than a drop of the real acid. Much of this slaughter was also witnessed, (about eighteen months ago,) at the police office of this city, by my friends Dr. J. Reid, Dr. J. Y. Simpson, and Mr. Skae, as well as by various others. Never did we there see such a recovery take place as that which I have now described, and it was only strong and powerful animals that survived the administration of the poison more than a very few minutes. Experiments similar to the above were made with Creo- sote, and the results were almost identical with those ob- served when Prussic acid was employed.-f* In conducting this investigation, it was found essential to the success of the operation that the blood should be very speedily and copiously abstracted; and this remark is equally applicable to the relief of the heart from air—that • In the performance of this remarkable experiment, I had the assist- ance of my friends, Dr. Pollexfen, and Mr. William Scott. f There are cases of blows on the head, (as is stated by Dr. J. Reid, in the paper already quoted,) in which the contractions of the heart are not renewed by unloading its right side. It must be borne in mind, how- ever, that in this class of cases many anomalies present themselves, de- pending apparently, to a certain extent, upon the degree of shock sus- tained by the nervous system; but it is to be explained more fully, I think, by reference to a fact which must strike every one who performs experiments upon animals,—that the persistence of the contractility of the heart in individuals belonging to the same species, (and killed in ex- actly the same way,) varies very much in duration.40 is, it must be done immediately and thoroughly. Nystere says, that he recovered two dogs from a moribund condition, by forcing the air out of the heart, through an opening in the jugular vein, by means of pressure on the thorax. This is certainly a very clumsy mode of proceeding, and I should, think, even in dogs, not always likely to succeed. At all events, in the human subject, such a method could be of little or no avail. The recommendation here given, (which- is also that of Magendie,) is certainly that which the ope- rator ought, if possible, to follow when the untoward acci- dents occur, of which frequent mention has already been made. Magendie recommends the air to be drawn from the heart by applying the mouth to the divided vessel, or,, by pumping it out with a syringe, if that instrument should happen to be within reach.* It is evident that the surgeon ought not, even for a few seconds, to delay his attempts to relieve the heart; and that, consequently, in most cases, he will, if he is anxious to proceed with the necessary expedition, have recourse to sucking with his mouth. Though convinced of the advantage which results, in the majority of cases, from the removal of the air from the heart, I must admit that in a few instances, my attempts to recover animals in this way proved abortive. This ought, probably, to be attributed to too large a quantity of air having been introduced, or to some other accidental cir- cumstance, producing a state beyond that of imminent dan- ger, from which it was possible to relieve the animal. In spite of these unsuccessful efforts at resuscitation, I can confidently state, as a fair deduction from experiments, that • Lemons de la vie, p. CO. A Paris, 1836.41 in general, the method recommended, if promptly had recourse to, and judiciously conducted, will prove successful. I think the experiment more generally succeeds when, along with the air, a considerable quantity of blood is eva- cuated. In support of this opinion, the following case is subjoined : When Bouley Junior, veterinary surgeon at Paris, was bleeding a horse for pneumonia, having ceased to compress the vein, he heard a peculiar sound, which, how- ever, did not particularly attract his attention, as he had on former occasions remarked a similar occurrence. The oper- ation was concluded, and the animal sent back to the stable, where it was immediately seized with general trembling. Respiration became laboured and plaintive, the pulse small, irregular, and very quick; and then we are told, that groaning deeply, he fell down as if struck by a thunder bolt. For sometime Bouley was unable to account for these symp- toms ; but upon recollecting the sound which was heard when he relinquished his pressure of the vein, he concluded that it might be owing to the entrance of air. Under this impression, the vein was caused to bleed afresh. As the blood flowed the animal revived; and in half an hour after the accident, he was restored to the state in which he was prior to the operation, and in three days resumed his usual work. Magendie states, that an analogous case happened to Girard at the veterinary school of Alfort.* The advantage which resulted from the loss of blood in this case is very obvious; and may not recovery in the following instance be traced to a similar cause ? When Mr. Simmonds was removing a large tumour from the left Journnl de Physiol. Tome i. p. 197.42 side of the neck of a woman in the Manchester Infirmary, in 1791, he divided the internal jugular vein. " The tor- rent of blood," he says, " pouring out from so large a cavity, and the noise occasioned by the rushing in of air, added to other appearances, formed a picture more frightful than I ever beheld." The patient recovered; and there is nothing said about the injurious consequences of the admis- sion of air; from which we may presume, that none were apparent. It is merely stated, that the patient experienced no morbid affection of the head from the obliteration of the vessel.* It naturally occurs, when reflecting upon the practical inference to be drawn from these cases, that the advantage to be derived from the abstraction of blood from the vessel which has been divided, may be prevented, or that even greater danger may be incurred, by hazarding the admission of an additional quantity of air into the right chambers of the heart. If the vessel is gaping, owing to disease of its coats, perhaps the safest plan would be to open the largest healthy vein in the neck which may be within reach ; for from what has already been stated, the chance of saving the patient depends almost entirely upon the speedy and effectual un- loading of the heart. Should the air have gained access, merely from the temporary gaping of the vessel, occasioned by the position of the patient during the operation, there can then be no objection, not only to sucking the air out by it, but also to giving the additional relief to the heart, which would be afforded by the derivation of blood, and the contractions of the auricle. • Medical Facts and Observations, vol. viii. p. 23.43 If the state of the parts render it necessary immediately to apply pressure to the wounded vein, and should it be impossible or inexpedient to attempt relief, by opening any of the great vessels near the heart, the next best thing which can be done, is to relieve the circulation by some less direct method, which may be readily accomplished either by venesection at the bend of the elbow, or by opening the temporal artery. Dr. Warren, of Harvard University, has published a case in which there is every reason to believe that the patient was saved by the latter operation. When this gentleman was removing a cancerous tumour from the left side of the face and neck, in a case in which all the neighbouring tissues were involved in the disease, a very distinct sound was heard resembling the passage of air through water. The patient became faint, his countenance livid, respiration stertorous, and convulsions were observed. The wounded vessel (which was a small vein running across the neck) through which the air had rushed, was immediately compressed, and the temporal artery opened, when the blood issued forth in abundance. During the first twenty minutes there was a very marked abatement of the alarming symptoms. He continued, however, in a state of insensibility, for two hours and ten minutes longer, when he awoke, as if from sleep, and on the following morning was in his usual state, with the exception of some soreness over the thorax, and a headache. The operation was afterwards completed; and when the wound had nearly healed, the patient was dismissed at his own request.* The time during which he was in the hospital after the accident, • Medical Gazette, vol. xii. p. 2G9, wliere Dr. Wuireii's paper from the American Journal of Medical Science is given.44 is not stated ; but it must have been considerable, since it appears that seven days intervened between the first and second operations. Artificial respiration, frictions, the application of stimuli to the nostrils, and especially the cold effusion, may in cer- tain cases be used as subsidiary means; but they are cer- tainly not entitled to that primary importance which is ge- nerally assigned to them by those who have written on this subject. No time ought to be trifled in blowing and rub- bing, but the root of the evil should be at once laid siege to. Warren has very strange notions regarding the treat- ment to be adopted. After recommending both the exter- nal and internal use of ammonia, dashing cold water on the face, the introduction of a tube into the glottis, or through an aperture between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, for the purpose of carrying on artificial respiration, and so on, he proceeds to say—" an attempt to pump the imbibed air from the heart from the internal jugular vein, by means of a syringe, is an operation that cannot be recommended, since it appears more likely to allow the entrance of a far- ther quantity of air, than to abstract that already admitted." In reply to this, it is sufiicient to say, that the heart can be much more readily relieved by a method different from that which he condemns. But he goes on to make a most extra- ordinary suggestion in the next sentence, where it is said, " A proposal which might at first sight seem scarcely more plausible than that mentioned, might be made with some hope of advantage. The introduction of a liquid into the veins, has been often attended by the revival of the patient in cases of cholera, though rarely with ultimate success. In this accident, the vital powers not having received that45 lesion which is the result of an exhausting disease, it may be hoped that a successful revival might sometimes be effected by means of the injection of the saline solution into the veins."* There can be little doubt, but that the injection of a fluid into the veins would increase and not diminish the danger; but what analogy exists between cholera patients, and the class of cases at present under consideration, it is not easy to divine. Is a man, writing in any work, but especially in one which is to be extensively circulated among the junior members of the profession, jus- tified in making such a recommendation, without previously putting it to the test of experiment upon the inferior ani- mals, or at least having some plausible theoretical argu- ment to adduce in its support The measures which the surgeon ought to adopt with a view of guarding against the admission of air during an operation, are very obvious. When operating on parts e^'' tensively diseased, or when cutting in the vicinity of the large veins in the neck, he must pay special attention to the position of the patient, and when obliged to divide a large vein, he ought not to be unprepared for the accident taking place. With a view of averting it, he ought, before making the hazardous incision, to request the patient to take a full inspiration, so that the vessel may be divided during expiration. Should it happen, however, that in spite of every pre- caution, a dangerous quantity of air gain access, not an instant must be lost in adopting the measures formerly pointed out, as the most likely to save the life of the patient. • Cyclop, of Pruct. Med. and Surg., Article, Air, p. 260. Phihidel- phia, 1834.46 CHAPTER IV. BEMARKS UPON THE GENERATION OF AIR IN THE LIVING BODY, ESPECIALLY IN THE BLOOD VESSELS, AVITH OB- SERVATIONS ON THE CONSEQUENCES WHICH MAY RESULT FROM ITS PRESENCE THERE. Preternatural accumulations of air take place in almost every part of the body. They have been noticed in situa- tions where air ought naturally to be found, as well as in those where it ought not to exist—in organs which commu- nicate, and in those which do not communicate with the ex- ternal air. It is known to accumulate in the bladder—the uterus—the cavities of the pleura—peritoneum—pericar- dium—arachnoid—tunica vaginalis—in the cellular tissue all over the body,—and in the parenchyma of organs. De Boisement, in his excellent Thesis on Pneumatoses,* mentions a case of gaseous matter being formed within the synovial membrane of the knee joint, and from the analogy between synovial and serous membranes, it is curious that no similar case (as far as I can discover) should be on record. • Recberches sur les Pneumatoses, par A. Briere de Boisement. A Paris, 1825, p. 24. Thesis, No. 201, quarto. -j- My friend Dr. Duncan has informed me of a case somewhat simi- lar to that mentioned by De Boisement. It occurred in the practice of the late Dr. James C. Gregory, and under the observation of Dr. Duncan. The patient was a woman of thirty-six years of age. Her47 In many animals air is an ordinary and natural secretion. Such is the gaseous matter contained in the swimming bladder oF the fish ; but what is more to our purpose, in many of the cold-blooded animals, air appears to circulate along with the blood. Reichel frequently observed globules of air in the blood of frogs ;* and Spallanzani saw the same in that of salamanders.-}- Blumenbach states that he has seen air vesicles so frequently in the blood of amphibia, and fishes, that he considers them to be constantly present.;]: Similar observations have been made by Redi, Caldesi, and Morgagni.§ Anormal formations of air are by no means uncommon, both in the inferior animals and in the human subject, in certain states of disease, and they sometimes exist without any other morbid phenomena being apparent. Bags con- taining air have been found in the abdominal cavities of healthy pigs ; and occasionally air is contained in cysts in the human subject. || In hysteria, air frequently accumulates in very large quantities in the stomach and intestines; and in peritonitis the formation of gaseous matter is a common occurrence. disease was cholera. In consequence of the injection of the saline solu- tion, phlebitis supervened. During life it was suspected that within the cavity of both knee joints there was accumulated a mixture of air and pus, and upon dissection a few hours after death, such was proved to be the case. In this instance, however, it is probable that the gaseous mat- ter was produced by the decomposition of the pus. • De Sanguine motu experimenta, p. 16. Leipsic, 1767. ■j- Experiences sur la Circulation, Stc. p. 158. J Kleine Schriften zur Vergleich. Phys. und Anat. und Naturgcscb. gehijrig, purug. 71. § Morgagni de Sedibus et Causis Morb. lib. i. 2, p. v. § 22. II Diet, dc Med. Article, Ki/slcs.48 Air may accumulate in the urinary bladder, the uterus, and in other situations, without indicating a state of general dis- ease, and consequently is of trifling importance. The dis- tention of the uterus with air, however, has occasionally given rise to awkward errors, from the aflPection being mis- taken for pregnancy. I was lately informed by a medical friend, of a woman residing near Edinburgh, to whom such a misfortune happened. The baby clothes were ready, and she was in the daily expectation of being brought to bed. One morning, however, having stooped to pick up some^ thing from the floor, to her no small astonishment and dis- may the contents of the uterus passed of in one continued stream of air.* Sudden impressions made upon the mind occasionally produce an immediate disengagement of a large quantity of air. Frank mentions a case of a lady, who, on hearing a false report of the death of her husband, fainted, was seized with convulsions, and at the same time became enormously tympanitic. Lobstein, in quoting this case, gives another of the same kind; A man, after a hearty meal, received a piece of bad news. Suddenly his digestion became disor- dered, and air was formed within his body to so great an ex- tent, as actually to suffocate him.-f- Hypochondriacs are very subject to the formation of large quantities of gaseous matter within the stomach and intestines. ^-"'Spontaneous emphysema has often been observed to a greater or less extent as a sequel of certain epidemics. We • An analogous case is related in the Lancet, vol. ii. p. 355. Bianchi has recorded a similar case in the Journ. de Med. de Pai is, 175C. Vide also Astruc Traite des Maladies des Femmes. t Lohstein Traite d'Anatomic Pathol. Tome i. p. 15C. A Paris,49 are told by Frank that an epidemic fever which prevailed in Germany in 1T]2, and another which raged in Bobbio, (a small town in Italy,) in 1789, frequently terminated in a general emphysema. The same author mentions the case of a young lady of Vienna, who used to become emphyse- matous during every paroxysm of a tertian ague.* Dr. Sickel gives an account of a woman, who, without any external injury, was suddenly seized with emphysema over the whole body. No bad consequences resulted, and on the following day, the affection had completely disap- peared.-f- The narrator assigns as the cause of the pheno- menon that a short time before its occurrence, the woman had eaten some mustard seed, eruca, and a sausage. It has been stated by Baillie, and other observers, that when air is found in the stomach or intestines of a dead ani- mal, it may generally be also detected in the small blood vessels of these parts. Baillie, after detailing a case of " emphysema not proceeding from any local injury," gives it as his opinion, " that the air was formed from the blood itself, by some peculiar arrangement of its parts, and con- ducted into the cells of the cellular membrane by very small vessels."! Andral§ and other eminent pathological authors speak of gaseous matter being formed in the circulatory apparatus. Lobstein also considers this as established; and he con^ siders gaseous secretions, in whatever part of the body they may be found, as vital products, resulting from • Cyclop, of Pract. Med. Article, Emphysema. Lend, f Sicelii Decad. quart, 1744, p. 487. X Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical Know- ledge, vol. i. p. 202. § Andral Precis d'Anat. Pathol. Tome i. p. 52.". Paris, 1829. E50 some peculiar nervous influence, engendered in the minute ramifications of the nerves embracing the capillaries ;* and Gaspard employs the term " gazeificalion vilale^ in his essay on the subject.-f- The experiments of Magendie and Girardin clearly shew that the gas secreted by the intestines is not the result of any chemical decomposition, but is truly a vital secretion. After many careful observations, they found that the nature of the aliment did not influence the nature of the gas which was produced, but that this was in- variably the same. In the smaller intestines the gases de- tected were carbonic acid, hydrogen, and nitrogen ; and in the lower boM'els they found the same gases, with the addi- tion of sulphuretted hydrogen.J From all these considera- tions, then, it seems manifest, that although in many cases, accumulations of gas within the body owe their origin to chemical decomposition, yet nevertheless they are some- times the products of a vital action. Whatever be the explanation of the fact, it is quite cer- tain that emphysema frequently takes place without any lesion, and that in such cases upon dissection air is found in the blood vessels. There are some curious instances, however, on record, in which there seems at least a very strong probability that during life a very large quantity of air was contained in the blood-vessels. A man twenty-five years of age, who had been ill for fifteen days, was admitted into the Hopital Cochin of Paris, " with symptoms of typhus fever ; he also complained of pain in the left thigh ; and whilst he was in a state of delirium, said he had been bitten on the knee " Lobstein, op. cit. Tome i- p. 162. t Gaspard Dissert. Physiol, sur la Gazeificalion vitale. Paris, 1812. X Rech. Physiol, surles gas intestinaux, § 8. Paris, 1814. .51 by a dog. The limb was most attentively examined, but not the slightest trace of such an accident could be discover- ed. The thigh and scrotum were much swollen. He died on the following day. On dissection, eight hours after death, the surface of the body was found soiled by blood which had transuded through the integuments, and some blood had also been discharged from the nose. The whole body was emphysematous, but the left inferior extremity was so to a very high degree. It was double its natural size, of a brown colour, and covered with numerous phlycteuEe, some black, of great extent, and collected in clusters, from which escaped a reddish serous fluid, mingled with a quantity of gas; others white, from which nothing but air escaped. When the limb was pressed with the hand, crepitation was distinctly heard, the abdomen was much distended with gas, and in the intestines were observed those alterations which are so common in cases of typhus fever. Bubbles of air filled the vessels of the pia mater and the left vena saphena. The lymphatic ganglions of the mesentery were enlarged, and contained gas, which took fire from the flame of a taper, and produced an explosion ; the same phenomena also fol- lowed the exit of the air, which was contained in the legs, thighs, and scrotum."* Weber mentions a case of aneu- rism containing air.-j- According to the experiments of Krimer it appears, that if the blood be pressed out of a portion of an artery, and that portion be isolated by two ligatures, it will soon become dis^ tended with air.j If this statement be correct, it seems • Lond. Med. Phys. Journ. June 1831, as quoted in Article Em- physevia, Cyclop, of Pract. Med. Lond. ■|- Aniiotationes Anat. et Phys. p. 6. X Versuch einer Physiol, dcs JJluts, § 177, 185. Leips. 1823.52 to favour the opinion, that the internal coat of an artery has the power of secreting air. That such is the case we are inclined to believe ; and to prevent repetition, the arguments upon which this opinion is founded are here summed up. 1st, Air is found circu- lating in the vessels along with the blood in certain cold^^ blooded animals. 2d, Air has been found unmixed with the blood in the human species after death, when from the . history of the case there is every reason to suppose that it was in the blood-vessels during life. Air is secreted by serous membranes, to which the inner coat of an artery bears a close resemblance ; and this, when viewed in connexion with the experiments of Krimer, is an argument of considerable weight.* Another argument might be drawn from these cases of sudden death, in which the only thing found which can at all explain this event, is the presence of a large quantity of aii; in the blood-vessels. Sometimes the gaseous matter is found only in the vessels of the brain, and to this class of cases Morgagni has given the name of gaseous apoplexy. At other times we find the heart distended with frothy blood. From what has been stated above, it is fair to enter- tain the idea, that the sudden evolution of air within the blood-vessels may occasionally give rise to symptoms similar to those produced by its injection into the veins. This hy- pothesis is strengthened by the fact, that the formation of air in the living body sometimes takes place with extreme rapidity. Cases of Sudden death, in which the heart is described as • In Burdiich, vol. v. p. 209. is the absurd fancy that air is naturally secreted in the heart and origin of the large vessels, because they empty themselves of their blood without being able to remain collapsed.53 havinjr been found distended with air, are not so numerous as those in which the air has been found only in the vessels of the brain. One very remarkable instance is given by Morgagni. " A fisherman of Venice, upwards of forty years of age, and the subject of dyspepsia, was seized when in his boat with an affection of the abdomen, apparently from flatulence, to which he had been previously liable, and sud- denly expired.'' '*"The body was examined on the follow- ing day. Dissection.—The abdomen was tumid from gas, with which the stomach and intestines were inflated." " The heart was large and flaccid ; and both of the ven- tricles, and the right auricle, contained frothy blood." Most of the veins, the pulmonary artery, the aorta and carotids, also contained a frothy mixture of air and blood. The scrotum was greatly inflated with air.* Pechlin gives a case of a somewhat similar nature,-f- upon which Nysten remarks—" On reconnoit que la mort doit etre speciale- ment rapportee a la distension du ventricle pulmonaire par un gaz qui empechoit le sang venieux d'y arriver.*"!jl Uil'- fortunately the symptoms which immediately preceded death are not detailed. Ruysch gives an account of a woman who died suddenly, and in whom the heart was found distended with air.§ A similar case is described by Graetz, and is quoted by Morgagni (Lib. i. ep. v. § 20.) and Nysten, (p. 7, and p. 174.) The following are perhaps two of the most important of these cases of which we have any account. The one is given • Cooke's Morgagni, vol. i. p. 80. Lend. 1832 from Morgagni, v. 17. •f Observ. Physico-Medicae. Obs. Ivii. p. 135. Hamburgh, 1691. X Opera Omnia, 1737, p. 9. § Mr. Percival, veterinary surgeon in the 1st Life Guards, has pub- lished an account of a horse which died suddenly when under treatment54 by Nysten upon the authority of his friend Dr. De Jaer. The subject of the observation was a shoemaker of forty-five years of age, who had for the last fifteen years of his life been afflicted with spasmodic asthma, and had generally about seven violent accessions during the year, which came on without any premonitory symptoms. At the com- mencement of one of the exacerbations, he was brought to the " Hopital Cochin'" of Paris, where he died on the third day. The body was opened twelve hours after death, when it was yet warm. The left ventricle and the arteries contained no blood, but the right auricle and ventricle, and the whole venous system were distended with frothy blood. All the organs were in their natural state, and the muscles were very firm and red. What gives additional importance to this case is, the short time which was allowed to elapse between death and the examination of the body. The other case to which allusion has been made occurred to M. Laumonicr, in the hospital of Rouen.—A woman, aged fifty-six, died suddenly from an attack of asthma, a disease to which she was subject. The body was examined twenty-four hours after death. The season was winter; and there was not the slightest trace of putrefaction. There was emphysema in various parts of the body, and the in- ternal coat of the carotid artery had a red appearance, as if resulting from inflammation. The heart was very much distended, and its right cavities were filled with gaseous matter of a peculiar smell. for a catarrhal affection, the heart of which, upon dissection, was found enormously distended with air. (Veterinarian, vol. x. p. 65. Lond. Feb. 1837.) It is exceedingly to be regretted thut there is no mention made of the time which elapsed between death and dissection.55 In the Medical Observations and Inquiries there is a sin- gular case mentioned, which I am somewhat inclined to classify with the above. The patient during life was sen- sible of a noise within the thorax resembling " a stream of water passing over obstructions, or passing over a narrow confined place. He was subject to exacerbations, and when he varied his position the circulation became confused, and as it were wholly carried on in a corner of his heart, which at such times beat with a whizzing noise. During his ill- ness he felt the greatest pain when the noise seemed least; so that when speaking of his situation he had a common expression that Gush ivas his friend; while Gush stood by him he should live."—At last he died. Upon dissec- tion the pericardium was found loaded with fat. The heart in situ was longer and more pointed than usual for its size. The right auricle was much enlarged, and very thin, bear- ing strong marks of inflammation. The ventricle having lost its usual firmness and colour, was so transparent, as in a manner to admit an inspection into its very substance. Upon cutting into these two cavities a considerable quantity of air rushed out, and upon laying them, both ojien they ap- peared as totally void of blood as if they had been washed clean. The interstices between the chordae tendincae were full of air bubbles. A variety of less remarkable morbid appearances were noticed. Unfortunately it is not stated at what period after death the inspection was made, so that the case standing, as I believe it at present does, per se, is deprived of much of its value.* Without laying any weight whatever upon this last case, • Med. Observ. and Enq. vol. vi. Case of M. Houlder, by Mr. R. B.Cheston, surgeon at Gloucester. Communicated by Dr. William Hunter.56 it does not seem too hypothetical to suggest that in the cases which occurred in the ". Hopltal Cochin" and the Hospital at Rouen, the immediate cause of death was the presence of a large quantity of gaseous matter in the heart. We have seen that violent mental emotions sometimes oc- casion the disengagement of large quantities of air. Is it possible that the rapid evolution of this elastic fluid is ever the immediate cause of those instantaneous deaths which fre- quently follow sudden and immoderate emotions of joy or grief.'' Death it would appear sometimes takes place from the sudden disengagement of gas within the vessels of the brain, constituting the gaseous apoplexy of Morgagni and other authors ; but a mere reference to this subject must suffice, as the appropriate limits of a Thesis have I fear been already exceeded. The idea of Morgagni was, that the cause of death was the pressure exerted upon the brain by the air; but Bichat thought that in some cases the quantity of air found is so small as not to give plausibility to this explana- tion, and contended that the life of the brain was destroyed by some peculiar and subtle action exerted upon it.* All that can be said with confidence, then, in reference to this subject, is, that there are various facts and arguments which render it exceedingly probable, that owing to the sudden formation of air within the blood-vessels, death may be produced either by arresting the contractions of the right side of the heart, or by producing a fatal action on the brain. • Surla Vie et la Mort, Part ii. Article 2de, § 2.THERMOMETRIC, BAROMETRIC, ' AND OTHER TABLES, FOK TllK RECIPROCAL CONVERSION OF THE NUMBERS OF THE SCALES IN MORE FREQUENT USE. CALCULATED ]1Y GEORGE ATKIN, Esq. EXTTIAC I EJ) FnOM Tufe ■EOlKBtJllGH NEW Vlilf.OSOt'itlCAL .TOURNAr.. ADAM & CHARLES BLACK, EDINBURGH. MDCCGXXXVILThermomctric. Tables ; Barometric Tables ; Tables of Tuises, French Feet and Inches, Metres and Millimetres ; Tables of English Feet and Inches. Ccilculatcd by George Atkin, Esq. Thermometuic Tables, Nos. I. II. III. The following Tables are for the purpose of converling the degrees of the three thermomctric scales into one another. When the quantity to be converted is a whole number, its value is as- certained by simple inspection of that table in which the pro- posed scale stands in the first column. Thus, to convert + 85 R. into degrees of Fahrenheit and Centigrade, by Table I. we find : + 85 R. = 223.25 F. and 106.25 C. Again, if —65 C. were the given number, we find in Table II. —65 C. = —85.0 F. and —52.0 R. Lastly, to convert + 42 F. into the corresponding scales, in Table III. we find : + 42 F. = + 4.44 K. and + 5.55 C. If there be fractional parts annexed to the proposed number, by having recourse to the table of proportional parts, the value of the part is ascertained, and must be added to the number found in the body of the table; observing that, when the signs are alike, the sum is taken when unlike the difference. The signs of the fractional parts are the same in all the scales. Example. 1. Convert + 44.2 R. into degrees of Fahr. and Cent.: By Table I. + 44 R. = + 131.00 F. + 55.00 C. + 0.2 = 0.45 0.25 44.2 R. = 131.45 F. 55.25 C. 2. Convert —40.4 R. into degrees of Fahr. and Cent.: —40 R. = —58.00 F. —50.00 C. — 0.4 = _ 0.9 — 0.5 —40.4 R. = _6«.9 F. —50.5 C.4 Thennometric Tables^ Sfc. 3. Convert —9.6K. into degrees of Fahr. and Cent.: —9R. =+U.75F. —11.23 C. —0.6 = _ 1.35 _ 0.75 —9.6 R. = + 10.40 F. —12.00 C. If the })i oposed quantity extends to hundredths or thou.sandths oCa degree, it may be converted by shifting the decimal point of the proportional part either one or two places to the left. I''or example: 1. Coprort + 52.246 G. into degrees of Fahr. and Reaum.: + 52 C. - 125.6 F. 41.6 R. + 0.2 = 0.36 0.10 + 0.04 = 0.072 0.032 + 0.006 = 0.01OG 0.0048 + 52.246 C. = 126.0428 F. 41.7968 R. Barometric- TAatEisJ' jf^s. W! V. Vl! ]. Required the value in French inches and lines, and Eng- lish inches, of a column of mercury 729.7 m\\. jn height. By Table IV. 1 1^ ■'' : ^ - Inch. Lin. 729 mill. = 26 11.16 French. 28.701 English inch. + 0-7 = 0.315 0.0275 729.7 = 26 11.475 28.7285 Tables V. and VI. are used in the same manner, and serve for the conversion of French inches and lines and English inches into one another, and also into millimetres. By these tables a conversion may be made at a half or third of any of the num- bers, by doubling or trebling the given quantity, and then a half or third of the result, will be the quantity required. Tables VII. to XIV. Are for converting the difTerent French and English measures into one another, and are used in the same manner as tlie prr- (■eHing,Thermometrie Tables. 5 t'a^^'iIe I. Reau Fabr. Cent. Reau Fahr. Cent. Fahr. Cent. Reau Ftihr. Cent. —OU —lUo.UU TK fin —10.W + 1 + 04.^0 _i_ 1 9fi -J- 1. JO + 0-^ 4-171 in 1 77 CO -r / / .OU 1 xnti 71 4-1 m 71 oy 7i"; lUu. / u 7'^ 7^: AO 9 '^0 ^.00 17R 7*; 7f< 71^ / 0. / 0 194 Ri 1 on 011. uu 155.00 Oo 79 0 M 00. / 0 ^ 7K 1 o./o i7fi nn JtO 00 00. uu 19A 1 ^0 m R 91 0x0, i J 156.25 57 96.25 71.25= 41.00 ' 5.00 65 178.25 81.25 126 315.50 157.50 00 70 00 /u.uu e 9A 0. JO fifi l»ft AO lOU.OU VS* AO 197 XI 7 7"» 0J /. /o 158.75 OO 01 7r; uu./.> 0 40.00 7 J^O / .00 Ul M19 7f< 10^. / 0 JIX 7A 00. / 0 19J! X90 00 160.00 O-* oy.ou ^17 tO 7 17 7ti 4/. /O Ji 7^; 0. /o uo 00 100.00 00 00.00 190 X99 9A 0^^. ^0 Ifil 91 Oo 00.JO Q 0 *;o on 00. uu 10 00 lU. uo fit) uc/ 1 Ji7 9fi 1oi.^0 9f; oo. JO 1 XO 100 X9/i AO OJ4, OV/ lfi9 1(1 i Ui. ov Jif; Oft 00 0 ^19 9^; Oa. JO 11 9?^ 11. bO 70 ino Ki\ tt7 AO 0/ .00 1 XI XOl X9« 7 A O.i0. / 0 71 ^1 0^. / 0 7i^ 00> / 0 10 f^O 04.00 19 1 J.OU 71 101 7^^ 1yi./0 i\n 7 A 00, / 0 1 X9 X90 00 o^y, 00 Ifil no 1 Utj. uu '^n 11 11 00./O 1 X 7^^ lO* # 0 79 1 Oi 00 iy4.00 00 on yu, ou 1 XX 100 XXI 9A 001.JO I fifi 91 40 / 0. /o 01 •JO lO AO 00 1 00 10.00 7'^ 10^; 9*; 1 yo. M 01 9k yi, JO 1 Xi J 04 XXX AO 000.00 lfi7 10 i U / . OU •±o 7f< iM\ / u.UU no 00 ii> ft} 9^ Ul. JO 1 i\ 9;; 10. JO 74 1 Oft '^o lyo.oo 09 AO yj.ou 1 XA 100 XXA 7A 000. / 0 Ififl 7A 1 uo. / 0 J.7 '±t 7*^ 7^; Of). / 0 14 00. OU 1 7 AO 1/.00 7'i 900 7'^ JOO. /o ox 7A yo. / 0 1 Xfi 100 xxji 00 000.00 17(1 nn 11 u. uu If? ^i7 ^0 0/ - OU 10 00.70 1 n 7^^ 10. / 0 7fi / u 90X 00 ,^00. uu OA l\C\ •JO^ 00 1 X7 ■to/ XJO 9 A .j40. <50 171 91 ttj fiO Ofi o(>«25 10 RJl 00 90 00 liO.UO 77 90^ 91 ^uo. ^0 Qfi 9 a yo. JO 1 Xft i 00 XJ.9 AO 04 J. 00 XH 7 A 044. / 0 179 in I / OU 1 T\ 71 X to. io 44 fi7 Of) 00 1 7 1 / 70 9^ 10. &o 91 9K 7!l # 0 907 'lO JjXJi , OU 07 An . ■J/,ou 1 XO fiJ. 7^ 7t oo« / 0 10 79 "^A 99 fi;o 7Q 900 7*^ Oft 7 A yo. / 0 1 J_0 J 40 X17 00 04/ .UU 171 nn X1 ij, uu 4*2 /lO 'lO v> f;o 1Q ly 7J. 7*^ 9X 7K JO. / 0 t»u 919 00 JU. OU 100 /^A lUU. OU 141 141 X40 9 A 04y. JO 17f! 91 il 01 •zo 90 77 rn 9f; 00 JO. uo 01 97 J 9J^ -j14. jo 1 (U 9 A I Ul. Jo 119 14J XAl AA 177 in 40 00 'lO 00 91 70- 9^ / ir. .so 9h' 82- wl u, ov 109 An lU-j.Ou 1 iX 1 40 XAX 7A ODD. 10 1 78 71 I/O. to 39 O' J. / 0 -tij' 1 •) 22 ill ^0 >S/.OU 83 9Ui 7^^ lOX 7A 1 uo. / 0 144 XA^i 00 000,00 on J OU. uu 38 4.7 9X 7t 9H 7'i 84 991 00 ^iiil, UU 1 0 A AO 1 UO. Uu 1 J.A 140 XAJt 9A . OOo. JO llil 91 J 01. ^0 ftfi oft OU, uu 85 99 X 9^1 1 i\tx 9fl 100. JO 1 40 X/^0 AO 000,00 1 tt9 1(» 36 49.00 J.^ 00 r±0*U»/ 9i; ^0 Ji'! 9^» Ovj*^0 OJL. JO 86 99 T /;o J JO. 00 107 AA J o/,ou 1,1" 14* tifiO 7fi 00 J. / 0 I n'i 71 dfi 7^ tO <£0 00 K(\ X9 f^O OJ.OO 87 997 7^ JJ/. /O 1 on 7 c 1 Uo. / 0 14u o/'t nn 000. UU lot /Ul loo. uu il9 f;o 97 09 7'i XX 7^ 00,10 8K 00 9X0 00 Jou. uu 11 / i nn 110.00 i4y titiv 9 A oO/.Jo xob.-o J.1 9f» JO O'; 00 X^^ 00 00. uu yp 9Q9 9K Jo J. JO 111 oc 111.JO 1 AO lOU ooy. OU 1 Ji7 -Xll Xo/.OU 32 40 ort 40 00 90 07 9t X^' 9f; uu, JO <)0 97vl AO Jo4. OU 119 An 11 J.Oo 1 AI 10 1 X71 7A loo. /O X7 7t 'VA 7^ 00* i 0 RO 00 'iO X7 ';o 01 JoO. / 0 1 1 Q 7t: J lo. /O 162 374,00 190.00 30 35.50 37-50 31 101.75 30.75 fl2 231i.00 115.00 1.53 376.25 191.25 00 m 9'; OU* '!9 oj 10A on 104. uu 40 00 4U,Uu QR f 0 J41, JO 11O.JO lo4 ij/ii. OO 1 no cn oi>UU 00.00 33 lUo.jo 41.25 y4 243.50 117.50 155 380.75 193.75 97 zo. / 0 7!; tj4 1 OH KO iUo.ou /(9 KO 4J.O0 J40i / 0 ll8.7o 156 383.00 19,5.00 26 26.50 32.50 35 110.75 43.75 .96 248.00 120,00 157 385.25 196.25 25 94 9!; oO 1 1 00 J f; 00 40. uo 97 9/;/! 9?; JOO. JO 1-1.25 158 387.50 197.50 24 22.00 30.00 37 115.25 46.26 98i 252.50 122.50 159 389.75 198.75 19.75 '2f!.71 .JO 117 'iO 11/ .00 4 /. Oo 99 J04. /O 1 Jo. / 0 160 392.00 200.00 22 17.50 —•I .«JV '!<) 11 0 7t jji 7f; 'Jo. / 0 100 9x7 no JO/.uo 19f: nn IGl 394.25 201.25 91 15.25 26 91 199 i)0 CiO 00 00. ou 101 Joy. Jo iJb.xiO 162 396.50 202.50 20 13.00 25.00 41 124.25 'il 9A 01.4^0 102 9a'1 f;0 -jO 1,00 197 An 1J/,00 163 .3.98.75 203.75 1!) 10.75 2.3.75 il9 l'>f>' 'iO t;9 103 Juo, /O 1 Jo. /o + 164 +401.(JO +205.00 in 17 8.50 6.25 22.50 'M.9t s\ 12!J. 75 1X1 no itJi. uu 'iX 7^ o<>. / 0 'i'; 00 104 105 JuO.UO 1 '-in (\n JOo.Jo i.jI. J.) —rrr . If) 4.00 20.00 45 133.25 OU. wO 106 07/1 f;A 1 '-io An loJ.OU 15 1*7? 135.50 i '>7 '\0 ' 0/ .OU 107 979 7f. J/ J. / O 1 X*} 7 K ifJo, /O PHOpOBT/OIfAti PABTS. It 4- 0.50 9 7fi 47 1X7 7*) 'I'l 7^ Ot>. / 0 /vO 00 uu, 00 108 07K on 977 OK J/ / .Jo 1 1" nn loO. uU loo. JO i O If). 25 4.1 140 00 109 Reau. Fahr. Cent. 12 5.00 15.00 4.9 142!25 61.25. UO 279.50 OiM 7f; JOI. /o 137.50 1 ^« 7r, 11 7.25 13-75 50 144.50 62.50 111 0.1 0.225 0.125 10 a 50 12.50 51 146! 75 63!'75 112 284,00 140.00 0.2 0.450 0.250 0 11.75 11.25 52 J 49.00 65.00 , 113 286.25 141.25 0.3 ' 0.676 0.375 8 14.00 10.00 53 151.25 66.25 11-i 288.50 142.50 0.4 0.900 0.500 7 16.25 «.75 rA I53.5U . 67.50 lis 2.90.75 ■ 14;;. 75 (1.6 1.125 0.625 C 18.50 7.50 55 155,75 68.75 116 293,00 145.00 (1.6 1..350 0.750 5 20.75 0'.25 56 158.00 70.00 117 295.25 146.25 0.7 1.575 0.875 4 23.00 5.00 57 160.25 71.25 118 297.50 147. .50 0.8 1.800 1.000 25.2.5 .3.75 5a 162.50 72..50 119 299.75 148.75 0.9 2.025 1.126 2 27.50 2.50 59 164.75 7.3.75 120 302.00 150.00 - 1 2.9.75 —1.25 O'O 167.00 75.00 121 304.25 151.25 0 +32.00 0.00 +61 ■h J 69.26 +76.2,5 + 122 4-306.50 + 152. .50 16 Thermometric Tables. TABLE II. Cent Fahr. Reaiini. Cent Fahn Reaum, Cent Fah'. Heavm. Cent Fahr. Heauni —7.') 74 —103.00 101.2 —GO.O 5.0.2 _2 +28.4 — 1.6 0.8 + 71 72 + 169.8 161.6 +56.8 +Ui Hi +291.2 + 115.2 1 30.2 293.0 IIG.O 73 99.4 58.4 0 32.0 0.0 73 1G3.4 146 294.8 116.8 7-2 97.0 57.6 + 1 33.8 + 0.8 74 1G5.2 Oif, u 147 296.6 1I7.G 71 95.8 .56.8 2 35.6 1.6 75 1G7.0 148 298.4 118.4 70 94.0 5G.0 3 37.4 2.4 76 1G8.8 UU.O 149 300.2 119.2 G!) .02.2 55.2 4 39.2 3.2 77 170.6 Ul.U 1.50 302.0 120.0 90.4 54.4 6 41.0 4.0 78 172.4 no A. 151 30.3.8 120.8 C7 88. G 53.6 6 42.8 4.8 79 174.2 Otj.- 1.52 305. G 121.G 8G.8 52.8 7 44.6 5.6 80 176.0 1.53 .307.4 122.4 O'S 8.5.0 52.0 8 46.4 6.4 81 177.8 04.0 154 .309.2 123.2 G4 83.2 51.2 9 48.2 7.2 82 17.9 " ■ fiK H U.l.U 155 311.0 121.0 03 81.4 50.4 10 50.0 8.0 83 181 4 156 312.8 124.8 02 79. G 49.6 11 51.8 8.8 84 183.2 157 314,6 125. G 01 77.8 48.0 12 53.6 9.6 85 18,5.0 /IP 0 158 316.4 126.4 GO 70.0 48.0 13 55.4 10.4 86 18G.0 uo. 0 1.59 318.2 127.2 5.0 74.2 47.2 14 57.2 11.2 87 188.6 0."." 160 320.0 128,0 5!! 72.4 46.4 15 5.0.0 12.0 88 190.4 7ii A 161 321.8 128,8 57 70. G 4.5.6 16 GO. 8 12.8 89 192.2 162 323.6 12.0. G 50 G8.8 44.8 17 62.6 1.3.6 90 194.0 163 32,5.4 130.4 .W G7.0 44.0 18 C4.4 14.4 91 1,0.5,8 79 \\ 164 327.2 131.2 54 G5.2 43.2 19 66.2 1.5.2 92 197.6 7^ fi 165 329.0 132.0 53 G3.4 42.4 20 68.0 16.0 93 1.0.0,4 lA A 166 330.8 132.8 52 01.6 41.G 21 69.8 16.8 94 201,2 167 332. G 133.G 51 5,0.8 40.8 22 71.6 17.6 95 20.3.0 168 334.4 134.4 50 58.0 40.0 2.3 73.4 18.4 9G 204.8 7 0.*-* 1G9 .336.2 135.2 4!) 5G.2 39.2 24 75.2 19.2 97 20G.6 77 (i 170 338.0 136.0 411 54.4 38.4 25 77.0 20.0 98 208.4 7ji 4 171 339.8 136.8 47 ,W.G 37.6 2() 78.8 20.8 9.0 210.2 70 2 172 ,341.G 137.6 4G 50.8 36.8 27 80.6 21. G 100 212.0 fin 0 173 343.4 138.4 45 49.0 36.0 28 82.4 22.4 101 213.8 fin H 174 345.2 139.2 44 47.2 35.2 29 84.2 23.2 102 21,5.0 175 347.0 140.0 43 45.4 34.4 30 86.0 24.0 103 217.4 JIO 4. 176 348.8 140.8 42 43.6 33.6 31 87.8 24.8 104 21.0.2 "2 177 350. G 141.6 41 41.8 32.8 32 0.0.G 25.6 105 221.0 MA 0 178 3.52.4 142.4 40 40.0 32.0 33 91.4 2G.4 106 222.8 179 .354.2 143.2 3.0 38.2 31.2 34 93.2 27.2 107 224. G 180 356.0 14i.O an 3C.4 30.4 35 9,5.0 28.0 108 226.4 181 .357.8 144.8 37 34. G 29. G 3C .06.8 28.8 109 228.2 Jt7 2 182 .3,59.6 145.6 36 32.0 28.8 37 98.6 29.6 110 2.30.0 nn 0 00. ^ 183 361.4 146.4 35 31.0 20.0 38 100.4 30.4 ni 231.8 ftii 8 00." 184 363.2 147.2 34 2.0.2 27.2 39 102.2 31.2 J12 2,33.6 MO G 185 3G5.0 148.0 33 27! 4 2G.4 40 104.0 32.0 113 235.4 186 366.8 148.8 32 25.6 25.G 41 10,5,8 32,8 114 237.2 31. J 187 3G8.6 149.0 31 23.8 24.8 42 107. G 33.6 115 239.0 00 a 188 370.4 150.4 30 22.0 24.0 43 10.0.4 34.4 116 240.8 92.8 189 372.2 151.2 2.0 'J0.2 23 2 44 111.2 35.2 117 242.6 93.6 190 374.0 152.0 28 18.4 214 45 113.0 36.0 118 241.4 .04.4 191 375.8 1.52,8 27 16.6 21.6 4G 114.8 36.8 119 246.2 95.2 192 377.6 153.6 •2(5 14.8 20.8 47 UG.G 37.6 120 240.0 96.0 1.03 379.4 154.4 25 13.0 20.0 48 118.4 38.4 121 249.8 96.8 1.04 381.2 1.55.2 24 11.2 19.2 49 120.2 39.2 122 251.6 97.6 195 .383.0 ]5().0 23 9.4 18.4 50 122.0 40.0 123 253.4 98.4 19G 384.8 15G.8 22 7.6 17.6 51 12.3.8 40.8 124 255.2 99.2 197 38G.6 157.6 2\ 5.8 1G.8 52 125.G 41.G 125 2,57.0 100.0 1.08 338.4 158.4 20 4.0 16.0 S3 127.4 42.4 126 258.8 100.8 199 390.2 159.2 1!) 2 2 15.2 54 129.2 43.2 127 2G0.G 101.6 200 392.0 160.0 18 OA 14.4 55 131.0 44.0 128 2G2.4 U)2.4 201 393.8 lotl.o 17 + 1-4 3.2 1.3.6 5() 132.8 44.0 129 2G4.2 103.2 202 395.6 101.6 IG 12.8 57 1.34.G 45.6 130 2(;6.0 104.0 203 397.4 162.4 15 5.0 12.0 58 1.3G.4 46.4 131 2G7.8 104.8 204 3,09.2 163.2 11 G.8 11.2 59 1,38.2 47.2 132 2!;9,6 10,5.6 +205 + 401.0 1 (i4. (1 13 8.G 10.4 GO 140.0 48.0 133 271.4 10G.4 I*KOPOnTT0.\AI Pa rts. 12 10.4 9.6 61 141.8 48.8 1.34 273.2 1117 0 11 10 12.2 ]4.'o 8.8 8.0 62 6.} 143.6 14.'i.4 49.6 50.4 135 13G 275.0 276.8 108.0 108.8 Cent. F.ihr. Reaum. 0.1 o.a ll„3 11,4 0.18 (1.3b' (1 OH am .0 15.8 7.2 G4 147.2 51.2 137 278.6 109.G «l II 7 t T a l/.D 1.0.4 a A 0.4 140.0 52.0 280.4 110.4 ».tA 0.7-2 5.6 (Hi 15(U! ,52!8 139 282."2 111.2 (L.-H C 5 21.2 23.0 4.8 4.0 G7 (i'8 152.G 1,54.4 5.3. (>• 54.4 140 Ml 281.0 28.5.8 112.0 112.8 (i,r> »,()■ (1.7 .>.iH) I.OII (1.4(1 (1.41) {)..■,(; 4 2). 8 3.2 GO 1,56,2 5.\2 1 12 2!;7.G 11,3. G (i.ii I.44 0,(J4 h2G.G —■'A t 70 1 + 1,5;!.0 1 : ."iii'.o ^-113 + 289.4 + 114.4 I.Hi 0,727 Thcrmometric Tables, lABLE 111. 1 Fahr. Uphuhi* Cent. Fahr. lleaura. Cent* Faht. Reaum. Cent. Fahr. Rcaum. 1 Cent. -100 —58.66 —73.33 —35 —29.77 —37.22 + 30 —0.88 — 1.11 +95 +28.00 +36.00 ay 58.22 72.77 34 2,0.33 3(;.66 31 0.44 0..55 96 ■28.44 35. ,55 98 57.77 72.22 33 28.88 36.11 32 0.00 0.00 97 28.88 36.11 97 57.33 71.66 32 28.44 35.55 33 + 0.44 + 0.55 : 98 29.33 36.66 96 56.88- 71.11 31 28.00 35.00 34 0.88 1.11 i 99 29.77 37.22 95 56.44 70.,55 30 27.65 3444 35 1.33 1.66 1 100 30.22 37.77 94 56.00 70.00 29 27.11 .3.".. 88 36 1.77 2.-22 1 101 30.66 38.33 93 55.65 69.44 28 26.66 33.33 37 2.22 2.77 102 31.11 38.88 92 55.11 68.88 27 26.22 32.77 38 2.66 3.33 103 31.55 39.44 91 54.66 68.33 26 25.77 32,22 39 3.11 3.88 104 32.00 40.00 9() 54.Q2 67.77 25 26.33 • 3L66 40 3.55 4.44 105 3^2.44 40.55 !)9 53.77 67.22 24 24.88 31.J1 41 4.00 5.00 106 32.88 41.11 «!) 53.33 66.66 23 24.44 30.55 42 4.44 5..55 107 33.33 41.66 !f7 52.88 66.11 22 24.00 30.00 43 4.88 6.11 108 33.77 42.22 ' 86 52.44 6,5.55 21 2!). 44 44 5.33 6.66 109 34.22 42.77 85 .52.00 6,5.00 20 23. i 1 28.f!8 45 5.77 7.^22 110 34.66 43.33 84 ,51.55 64.44 19 ^2.06 28.33 46 6.22 7.77 111 35.11 43.88 83 51.11 63.88 18 ■ 27.77 47 6.66 8.33 112 35.55 44.44 , ■ 82 50.66 63.33 17 21.7/ 27.22 48 7.11 8.88 113 36.00 45.00 : '81 50.22 62.77 16 26.66 49 7.55 9.44 114 36.44 45.55 • ' 80 40.77 62.22 15 20.88 26.11 50 8.00 10.00 115 36.88 46.11 79 49.33 61.66 14 On 4 A 25.55 61 8.44 10.56 116 37.33 46.66 78 48.88 61.11 13 "U.OO 25.00 .52 8.88 11.11 117 37.77 47.22 77 48.44 60.55 12 IV.o!) 24,44 53 9.33 11.66 118 38.22 47.77 76 48.00 60.00 11 19.11 2.3.88 54 9.77 1-2.22 119 38.66 4{i.33 '75 47.55 59.44 10 18.66 23.33 55 10.'22 1'2'.77 120 3.0.11 48.83 74 47.11 58.88 9 18.22 22.77 56 10.66 13.33 121 3,0.55 49.44 ' 73 46.66 58.33 8 17.77 22.22 67 11.11 13.88 122 40.00 50.00 - TO 46.22 57.77 7 17.33 21.66 58 11.55 14.44 1-23 40.44 50.55 ■ ri :o 4,5.77 57.22 6 16.88 21.11 59 12.00 15.00 1-24 40.88 51.11 45.33 56.66 5 16.44 20. .55 60 1-2.44 15.55 125 41.33 51.66 ■69 44.88 56.11 4 16.00 20.00 61 1-2.88 16.11 1-26 41.77 52.-22 18 44.44 55.55 3 15.55 19.44 62 13.33 16.66 127 42.'22 52.77 «7 44.00 55.00 2 15.11 18.88 63 13.77 17.22 1-28 4-2M 53.33 f6 43.,55 54.44 —1 14.66 18.33 64 14.22 17.77 1-29 'i:;. 11 53.88 (5 4.3.11 53.88 0 14.22 17.77 65 14.66 18.33 130 43.55 54.44 61 42.66 53.33 + 1 13.77 17.-22 66 1,5.11 18.88 13 J 44.00 55.00 68 42.22 52.77 2 13.33 16.66 67 15.55 19.44 132 44.44 55.55 Gl 41.77 52.22 3 12.88 16.11 68 16.00 20.00 133 44.88 56.11 6 41.33 51.66 4 12.44 1.5.66 69 16.44 20.55 134 45.33 56.66 6t 40.88 51.11 5 12.00 15.00 70 16.88 21.11 135 4,5.77 57.-22 s> 51) 40.44 50.55 6 11.55 14-44 71 17.33 21.66 136 46.22 .57.77 58.33 40.00 .50.00 7 1 1.11 13.88 72 17.77 2-2.22 W 46.66 ,57 ■ ^6 39. .56 49.44 8 1 0.66 13.33 73 18.22 22.77 138 47.11 58.88 39.11 48.88 9 1 0.22 1-2.77 74 18.66 23! 33 139 47.55 59.44 »r> 38.66 48.33 10 .9.77 12 ''2 76 1.0.11 •2.3.88 MO 48.00 60.00 54 38.22 47.77 11 9.33 1L66 76 19.65 24.44 141 48.44 60.55 ;.3 .'2 37.77 47.22 12 8.88 11.11 77 •20.00 '2,5.00 142 40.88 6'1.11 37.33 46.(;6 13 a.44 10.,55 78 •20.44 2.5.55 143 49.33 61.66 l\ 36.88 46.11 14 8.00 10.00 79 20.88 26.11 U4 4.0.77 6-2.-22 fo 36.44 45.65 15 7.55 9.44 80 21.33 2(i.66 115 60.22 6-2.77 49 36.00 45.00 16 7.11 8.88 81 21.77 27.'22 146 50.6(i 63.33 48 35.55 44.44 17 6.66 8..33 82 2^2.22 27! 77 147 51.11 63.88 ■)7 35.11 4;i.88 18 6.22 7.77 83 •22.66 28. ,33 148 61.,56 6.L 44 46 34.66 43. .33 19 .5.77 7.32 84 2.3.11 28,88 119 ,5-2.00 6,5.00 45 34.22 42.77 20 6.33 6.66 85 23. .55 29,44 1,50 .':'2.44 6,5. .55 44 33.77 42.22 21 4.88 6.M 86 24>0O 30.011 ' 151 ,5-2.88 66.11 43 3.3.33 O'l 41.66 '22 4.44 5.65 87 24.44 30. .65 1.52 53.33 66.6(! 4-'> A^ 11 41.11 4.00 ,>.U() 88 21.88 31.11 1.53 .53.77 67.^22 LI' 41 32.44 4(».55 24 3. .55 4..t4 89 25. .33 31.66 1.54 5 4.-22 67.77 61!. 3;; 40 32.00 40.00 25 3.11 3.88 90 •25.77 32.-22 1,55 54.66 39 31.,55 39. 2(i 2.66 .3..-13 91 2(;.22 3-2.77 15(i' 5.5.11 68.88 38 31.11 38.88 27 2.22 •2.77 !« 26. (;6 .33.3,-! 167 ,55.55 6,0.4.( 37 .30.66 38,33 28 1.77 2.-22 93 ■27.11 3.'5.88 1,58 ,5(;.00 70.00 -36 —;50.22 —37.77 +29 1.33 —1.66 h'M 4-27.55 +34.11 + 1,59 + 56.44 + 70.5.5Tfiennomctric Tables. TABLE IIL—continued. Fnhr. Rcauin, Celt. Fall r. Rcaiiin. Cent. r mir. Reaum. Cent. 4-1fifl 4-5(). U(! 57.88 -u7I 11 -unfi 77 4_ 107 09 +114.00 71.(i() 22f) JU» 99 107 77 291 115.11 14ii.88 1()2 .'57 77 JtG.6'6 108.33 292 115.55 144.44 I(J3 fi8.22 79 77 9->R Ji7 11 108.88 293 110.00 14.5.00 1C4 58.(if) 990 f{7 '^'i 109.44 294 11 ()'.44 14.5.55 16'5 59.11 7M Hi\ fiji no 110.00 295 116.88 14(). 11 1 liifi 59.55 7J .14 88.44 110.55 290 117.33 14().C6 1()7 (JO.dO 75.00 88.88 111.11 * 117 77 1 i7 99 1()'8 (JO. 44 ODD HO '^'l 0.'. 00 1 1 1 (I'fi 298 11 )i J J 0<-'~' 1 i7 77 fiO.88 -94 jio 77 1 1 •> 0'/ 2t)<) X io.lJu 1 iH ^'^ 1 70 II'' 61.83 1« HCi oy = 1 l-T 77 300 1 1Q 1 1 1 I of. X X 1-WJ.88 171 Rl 77 77 9-) 00 tifi 11 S Mol 11 Q f^i^ ] i.0 J. J. 17-> 62.22 77 77 01 11 11 ^ (l.T i Xt^.UU .HO-) 1 on nn 1 ^n on I 7'i 62. ((6 7« 01 '^'^ X X •f.'i-X 1 ^n '"1 1 7J. 63.11 7fl ftJt 9'^Q 09 on 11 'i nil 1 on j»» 1 11 11 1 7r, ()3.55 •>Ali 0'> iI4 1 11 M 305 X w i.,>.l 151.()6 1 /»' 64.00 ftft (10 .-'tl <)•> Jlft 1 1 h' 1 1 1 XU. X X 306 1''1 77 .152.22 . 17(7 64.44 • ) L9 116.06 307 122.22 1 r? 77 ' 1 7J1 (>4.88 93.77 11 i ..J- 308 122.66 163.3Ji 1 7') 05.33 Hi (Hi 9t I 94.22 117.77 309 l'>3 11 * —0.11 15.3.88 IfiO ()5 77 U.J. / / 94.66 118.33 310 123.55 J 54.44 0().22 tt'> 77 95.11 118.88 311 124.00 155.00 61i.(i(i 95.55 119.44 312 124.44 155..')5 111!) 67.11 96.00 120.00 313 124188 ISGil'l ] fM 67.55 Hi 1.1 *' It) .%'.J4 120.55 314 125.33 15().()6' A Uii 68.00 }tA (Ml 96.88 121.11 315 . 12') 77 157.22 i (Ml 68.44 J.)l 97.33 12 .66 316 126.22 157 77 1)17 1*)/ (f8.88 (>U> 1 1 97.77 122 317 ' 128.0'6 158..3H I ItJl i o(i or. ou 9);.22 . 122:77 318 1''7 11 i .X X 158.88 lft.<) fa'O 77 H7 *)9 98.(;fi, 123.33 31fl l-'7 <\<\ 159.44 l.'M) 70 •■>•> '17 77 !)9.11 . 123.88 ,320 128.00 160.00 1 <ll 7(1 K/i 00. ,50 99,55 124.44 321 l''» ill 1G0.55 ; 1 71 11 lio-oo 100.00 12, ).00 322 lojl oji X -0.00 Ifil.l 1 71 100.44 12,5..55 323 194 72.00 90.00 2o.'J 100.88 126.11 324 129.77 1()2.22 19o 72.44 20*0 101.33 12(;.G6 .325 130.22 16-2.77 1 Of; 4 ^. ()() 9(?i 101.71 127.22 326 130.60 16'3.3;i i\ 07 i tJ.ut> 01 4U\ 102.22 12 f.V7 3->7 131 11 * 'J J .X J 10'3.88 19H 7B. 77 92.22 2ij;j 102.66 128.33 328 131.,55 ^ IW^U 74 '^9 0'> 77 JZ. i 4 9/: i 103.11 12!i.iii! 329 132.00 1(>5.00 74.(>() O't Q'^ liJl yu.oo 9(;n 103.55 129.44 330 132!44 ' JG5.55 9ftl 7*1* n 104.00 130.00 331 132.88 lO'G.ll 10(1.66 167.22 i IJO 7(i Oft 1 u.uu 0'% hf) 9f{^ 104.44 104.88 130.55 131.11 332 333 133.33 133 77 7K J J. 0^ 105.33 131.(56; J 34.22 167.77 20-5 7b'.8Ji 070 105.77 13- 335 134 00 168.33 971 106.22 132.77 330 l.lij'ill 168.80 169.41 9(17 11 11 07 99 4/ - i0(!'.(;6 133.33 3X7 07 T7 97'i 107.11 133.88 338 130.00 170,00 7ll (id no 07 1 107.55 184.44 ,33') 130,44 i70/>5 91 fi 70 11 Oil mi i/o.OO 07 K 108.00 . 135.00 130;88 171.11 91 1 ^ 1 1 00 '/I 1 97i^ .5/1) 108.4'4 13, ).0!> 137j33 171.66 01 •> * 1 ^ UO.Ot) 1 on hit 077 108.88 136.11 137'77 172.22 *>1'-: lOt).,5o *>7n -7 ri 109..^3 109.77 136.00 OHO 138.22 172.77 ■£1 -i ')7(l 13- •.22 1.38.06 173*33 41 •> HI O 1 . (f.> 101 .(jy JoO 110.22 137.77 1'!') 11 173.88 91 /; 410 ol. J ^ 102,42 -01 110. (;6 138.33 139.65 174,44 217 iJ2.22 102.77 202 lll.Jl I3J !.8a 347 r4aob 175.00 •JlJ! 103. ."^3 28:; . 111.55 13IU4 348 140.44 !75..'>5 2),') 03.11 103.88 : 284 112.00 140.00 319 I4(U>8 176.11 220 104.44 '10.5.00 285 : 112.44 140.55! 3.>(i 141.,',3 176.66 221 tf4.0U 28l> 112.^58 141.11 , ,351. 141.77 177.22 222 lor...") 287 11."..33 M4 .(.'6 ,3.52 142.22 177.77 !li.n.'{ 106.11 28fl 118,77. : 142,^2 ': 142.66 178.33 + 106.66 t-2!!9 + ll4;';ii + 14! rr—i ,+,.*'i'li + 143.11 + 178.U8 1 Fahr. Jlcaum. Cejit. i Q r. r 1 170 A A + 1 /».44 1 AA {\{\ 14-*.UU MA 7 004 1*^,^4 loU.OJ OOii 111 J[J» 144.00 101.11 l-iO.OO Htl (.7; 1 J c 77 140./ / IJ(9 -yy rtO 1 J 4i). J_ 7 jiO 77 out 140.uo 1 OO.Oti DUO 147 11 J(>J.oo 904 1 J7 J^fi 1 Jt 1 M 900 1 JJl Oil 1 Ji= nn lo.XOU out) 140.44 JO.).. JO 'if 17 l4o.O(( 1 iux 11 91) 0 14.9.33 100.00 90 :f 149.77 I Jt7 •)•> 150.22 1 H7'77 471 150.66 100; oO M79 151.11 lOOrOf) ^71 151.55 152.00 1 on no '-17!; lo 2.44 1 on A f; i^'u.oo 0/0 152.m! 101 -11 153.33 101 K/i 1.^'! .UO j: 3.77 10 > 9*'^ 470 154.22 I 0-) 1", 0()U \HM •iHl 155.11 Hl'^ ft!' 00 i 155.55 9o9 156.00 004 156.44 1 yo.-i) 000 156.88 10f: 11 oo(» 157.33 i iJD.Ol 'i!IT 00 / lol'll 1 07 9» 1 iJ4 .<S' OiJO 158.22 1 07 •yT oyy 158.66 1 <1H 41 llfo.o? oyu 159,11 1 OR SD 1 Jo.fD 1 00 .u i^i/.4* 160.00 •>(tn (A 393 160.44 2U0.:5 394 160.88 201..'I 395 1C1.33 201.<6 396 161.77 202,«2 397 162.22 202 n 398 162.66 203.33 399 16.3.11 203.8!; + 40U -f-163.55 +204.4'( PROPORTIONAt PU'RTS." ' , Fahr. Reaum. L'ent. !).044 0.055 , 0.2 O.OlWi 0.111 : 0.3 0.133 0.160 , 0.4 0.177 t).2-22 0.5 0.222 0.277 : 0.6 0." 0.,i33 ; 0.7 0.311 0.381! 0.8 0.3:)5 (1.414 0.9 0 0.500 !Barometric Tables. TABLE IV. MiUim. French French Lines. Kn^li^h inches. 1 ' ■ In. Lines 20" 7.17 010 f7 oiV.Ll TO! /-I 7.62 31 n fio Oft mii; TOO 8.06' O-iU.UO 116 l}.50 8.95 •JOA (iR OR 1(14. .iO. Jut 9.39 •101 Oft /Jo 9!83 oJl.oo 28.583 10.28 o.)o 00 9!i R9R 10.72 •JOO Tf) TOO 11.16 28.701 / oU 26 11.61 9n 711 27 0.05 on 7Rfl 7^0 0.49 oJ4.4y Of! ft 1Q 7*-i!i 0.94 00 J 01 OJl fl.'iO 1.3u 325.38 Of! !!()(! / 00 1.82 325.82 oil OH? 2.27 , 326.27 Of! 077 2.71 326.71 29.016 7 Hit 3.15 327.15 29.056 7*^0 to J 3.60 327.60 29.095 4.04 328.04 90 1 4.40 328.48 90 174. 749 4.93 338.93 90 91 M 7JH 5.37 329.37 29.252 ' 7,1 1 ,1 44 6.01 329.81 on 009 ' 7ii-% ■ (40 6.26 330.26 on 7,)/; 6.70 330.70 O'l '-171 ' 1 Al t4i 7.14 331.14 90 J.1 0 7,1 Jl 7.58 331.58 29.449 7JM 8.03 332.03 90 J.fiQ ^ 50 8.47 332.47 90 W!! 751 8.91 332.91 29..567 9.36 333.36 29.607 753 9.80 333.80 29!646 , 7.54 10.24 334.24 29.686 ' 755 10.69 3?4.69 29.725 75() 11.13 336.13 29.764 757 27 11.67 335.67 29.804 ,, 758 28 0.02 336.02 29.843 French French In. Lines. Lines. inclies. 28 0.46 336.46 on 000 0.90 00 000 1.35 337.35 1.79 337.79 ijU.UUU 2.23 338.23 9f\ A 1A 2.68 •JOO /Jo 000. Ui) UA 070 3.12 .109.1J HA 1 1 0 3.56 ooy.oo OA 1 to 6\). i 00 4.01 o4U.Ul QA 1 n7 4.45 94U.40 Qo 0'.i7 «5U. Jo/ 4.89 •J < A (fn oU. J/l> 5.34 o41.o4 QA 01 fC 5.78 i54J./o QA QKK oU. 000. 6.22 QO QO/* 1 6.67 .)4J.O / qo A '-*A ■ oU. 4tj4 7.11 34.3.11 30.473 ;, 7.55 ' 8.00 343..55 30.512 344.00 30.552 8.44 344.44 30.591 8.88 344.88 30.630 9.33 345.33 30.670 2& 9.77 345.77 30.709. Millim. 759 760 761 762 763 764 765 766 767 768 769 770 771 772 773 774 77^ 776 777 778 779 700. r;-.i PBOPokTioNAL Parts. Millim. 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 French lines. 0.045 0.090 0.135 0.180 0.225 0.270 0.316 0.360 0.406 0,450 English inches. 0.0039 .0078 .0118 .01,57 .0196 .0236 .0275 .0314 .0354 0.0393 TABLE Vkl French Fr. English Mllllm. French Fir. Knglish MllUiB. . In. Lin. Lin. inc'hes. In. Lin. Lin. inches. 26 1 313 27.799 70()M28 27 7 331 2.9.397 746.736 '2 314 27.887 708.384 8 332 29.486 748.992 3 315 27.976 710.640 9 333 2.9,575 751.248 4 316 28.065 712.096 10 334 29.664 7.53.504 '5 317 28.154 71.5.1.52 27 11 335 2.9.753 7.55.760 6 318 28.243 717.408 20 0 336 2.0.841 7.58.016 7 319 28.3.32 719.664 ''■1 3,37 2,9.930 760.292 8 320 28.420 721..920 ' 2 338 .30.019 762..528 9 321 28.509 724.176 3 33!) 30.108 7(;4.784 10 322 28.598 726.432 4 ?M 3(1.197 767.040 26 11 323 28.687 728.688 5 341 30.2(i5 769.296 27 0 324 28.776 730.944 6 342 .30.374 771.,562 1 325 28.864 733.200 -7' 343 30.463 773.808 2 326 28. .953 7.35.45() 8 344 30. ,5,52 77(i.064 '1 .» .327 29.042 7.37.712 ,0 345 30. (Ml 778.320 4 .328 29.131 730.,068 10 346 .30.7.30 780. ,576 .1 329 09.220 742.224 28 II 347 .30.818 782.0.32 6 :t3n 29.309 744.480 29 0 348 30.907 785.088 PAopoRTroNAt. Parts. French Lines. OA 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 English inches. 0.0089 0.0178 0.0266 0.0355 0.0444 0.0533 0.0622 0.0710 0.0799 0.0888 Millim. 0.22,56 0.4512 0.6768 0.9(J24 1.1280 1.35.36 1.57.92 1.8048 2.0304 2,2560Barometric Tablen. TAT3T>E VT. inches. 27.1 'J7.'.! 'j.i}.'< 'SI A 27.5 27.6 27.7 27.1! 27.9 2ti.O .2(1.1 2ii:2 .e!)J3 211:4 .2!!,5 2»J0 211; 7 28.8 ■mA- 2.').1 20.2 2!U 29.4, ■ 29. 29.1; 29.7 29.8 French In. IJn<». 2(; .1.12 (n2.'> 7.:;:; 8.50 9.(;3 lOJ.i 11.88 I. 01 2.13 3.26 4.38 5.51 ().fi4 7.76 8.89 10.01 11.14 0.27 1.39 2.62 3.64 4.77 5.!)0 7.02 8.1 I !).27 10.40 II. 52 I'-rcnch Liniis. ; 305.12 • 30(;.25 ;i«i;;.50 .•J0!j.(i;i 310.75 311.88 313.01 314.13 31.5.28 316.38 317.51 318.(;4 31,').7ti 320.1.'9 32_'.()1 ,323.14 324.27 325.39 32(;..52 327.(;4 .328.77 329.90 331.02 332.11 333.27 334.40 335.52 688.31 6!)0.85 (),93.3y 1)1)5.93 693.47 701.01 703.55 70li.09 708.63 711.17 713.71 716.25 718.79 721.33 723.87 72ii.41 728.95 731.49 734.03 7;!6'.57 739.11 741.65 744.19 746.73 749.27 751.81 754.;i5 75^89 Enfllsh hu-ne& 29.9 30.0 .30.1 30.2 30.3 30.4 30.5 30.6 30.7 30.8 30.9 31.0 French In. Lines. 0.65 1.78 2.90 4.03 .5.15 6.28 7.41 8.53 9.66 10.78 11.91 1.04 French Lines. 336.65 337.78 338..90 340.03 341.15 342.23 343.41 344..53 345.66 346.78 347.91 349.04 l^KOPOBTIONAL PABTB. 7.59.43 761.97 764.51 767.05 769.59 772.13 774.67 777.21 779.75 7!W.29 784.83 707.37 English In. Fr. Lines. 0.01. 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0:09 o;io I 0.1126, 0.2252 0.3378 0.4504 O.S(i30 0.6755 0.78!il 0. 9007 l.OKJS 1. -1259 Millini. 0.254 0.508 0.762 1.016 1.270 1..524' 1.778 2.032 2.286 i2.5399 0 ! 'TAT.iE VII—toisES. Toiscs. ,1 •2 3 4 '6 7 8 W 20 30 40 50 60 71) ;tl) !iO 100 Metres. 1.04904 3.89807 5.81711 7.7.9615 9.74518 11.69122 13.04325 ],5..5922!) 17. .54133 19.4!I0;56 38.98073 .^8.47100 77..96145 !)7.45182 lJ(i.!M-JI8 13(i. 132.51 l.-).5.!)2-.'l)0 17.5.41327 l!)a.i)0363 English l-'cot. (i.394.59 12.78918 ,19.18377 25.57837 31.97296 38.36755 44.76214 51.15673 57..W132 (i;j.94.')9:2 127.8!n83 1.91.83775 22,').7l!3(i(i 319.72958 383.67.550 147.62141 511.567.33 575.51324 (i39.459l6 Toises. 200 300 400 500 (iOO 700 800. !)(I0 1000' •nm 3(i00 •1000 .5(100 OdOO 70110 i;o()0 !)IHI0 loooo Metres. 380.80726 .5(i4.7I089 779.614.52,' 974.51815,' IK;.'). 42179 i;j(i.i.3-2.5.V2, 1.559.22905 17.54.1 ?26fli 194.9.03631' 3898.07262 .58-17.10893 77.9li.l 4.524 974.5.181.55 ll(i;M.21786 I.'',(;.i;!.254l7 1-,.•,92.29084 17.Vll.32(i79 :':;:M).3(?310 , ■ nglish Feet. 1278.91832 ■ 1918.37748 2557.83664 3197.29580 8836.75496 4476.21412 5115.67328 .575.5.13244 «394.,59160 1278.0.1 !!;i21 19183.77481 25578.36642 31972.9,5r.d2 38367.54963 .H76214J23 511,56.7;!284 ','i755J.324W (i39i5.91(i05 1 iniiiili French Feet^ TABLE VIII Fhench Feet. French feet. 1 •> 3 4 5 ()• 7 )) U 10 20 30 40 50 (iO 70 (10 ;M) 100 Tolses. o.i(ieb7 0.33333 O..500(M) O.tJWifaT 0.1)3333 1.00000 I.IOT? 1.33333 L.^OOOO \Mmi 3.33333 5.00000 G.d'O'OOT ii.33333 10.00000 ll.G(;()67 13.33333 15.00000 lC.CG(j07 0.32404 0.()l!)(;i! 0. 97452 1.2U!)3(; 1. G2420 1.94004 2.273f!(i 2.59872 2.92355 C.49()79 !l.74518 12.99358 10.24197 19.490.30 22.73876 25.98715 29.23554 32.4!a94 English Feet. Rnd Inch. cel. Inch. 3 4 5 C 7 8 9 10 21 31 42 53 (53 74 85 95 lOtI 0.7892 1.5784 2.3675 3.15(i7 3.9459 4.7351 5.5243 (j.3l35 7.1020 7.8918 3.7837 ll.()755 7.5()73 3.4592 11.3510 7.2428 3.1347 11.0205 (i.9183 French Fact. 200 300 400 500 (lOO 700 800 900 lOOl) 2000 ;; )(to 4000 5000 (iOOO 7000 8000 !)000 10000 Toiscs. 33.33333 50.00000 6Uo'()()(;7 83.33333 100.00000 11«.()0'(;g7 133.33333 iso.oonoo lU6.(i()()67 500.00000 833.33.333 1000.00000 116'().()0'()()7 1333.33333 1500.00000 16U6.G6(iG7 Metre;,. G4.9G7!i8 97.45182 129.93575 1G2.419G9 I94.90.3()3 i.27.38757 259.87151 292.35645 324.83938 G49.G7877 974.51815 1299.35754 1G24.19G92 1949.03G31 2273.875G9 2598.71508 2923.5544C 3248.39385 English Feet ami Inch. Keel. 213 319 42G .532 G39 746 852 959 10G5 2131 3197 4263 5328 G394 7460 8526 ,0591 lOGa7 luch. 1.8366 8.7550 3.6733 10.5916 5.5099 0.4282 7.346G 2.2649 9.1832 6. .3664 3.54,96 0.7B28 9.9160 7.09.93 4.2825 1.46.57 10.6489 7.8321 TABLE X.- -French Lines. French Toiscs. Millimeters. English Lines. inches. 1 0.001IG 2.256 0.0888 2 0.00231 4.512 0.1776 3 0.00347 G.7G7 0.26G4 4 0.00463 9.023 0.3553 5 0.00579 11.279 0.4441 G 0.00(;94 13.535 0.5329 7 0.00810 15.791 0.6217 8 0.00926 18.046 0.7105 9 0.01042 20.302 0.7993 10 0.01157 22. ,5.53 0.8881 11 0.01273 24.814 0.9770 12 0.0l;i89 27.070 1.0658 TABLE IX—FntJNcir Inches. French Inches. Toiscs. Milliioeters. English Inches. 1 0.01389 27.070 1.06,58 2 0.02778 54.140 2.1315 3 0.041G7 81.210 3.1973 4 0.05556 108.280 4.2631 5 0.0694 i 135.350 5.3288 G 0.08333 1G2.420 6.3946 7 8 9 10 11 12 0.09722 0.11111 0.12500 0.13889 0.1,5278 0.16667 189.490 21G.,560 243.(;30 270.6'99 297.7()9 324.839 7.4604 8..5261 9.5919 10.6577 11.7234 12.7899 TABLi; XI Metuks. Met. French English French li:nglish Toiscs. Feet. In. L'Mea. Feet Inch. , Met. Toise" Feet. In. Lines. Feet. Inch. 1 0.51307 ~'i 0 11.2.96 3 .3.3708 200 102.61481 615 8" 3.200 656 2.1,580 2 1.02G15 6 1 J0.,j,';2 (; 6.7416 .300 153.,92222 .923 G 1.800 984 3.2370 3 I..5;J922 9 '2 9.888 9 10.1124 400 205.229(;.3 1231 4 6.400 1312 4.3160 4 2.0.")230 12 .3 .9.184 13 1.48.32 500 256.53704 1.5,3!) ■_) 8.000 1640 5.3950 5 2.56,537 15 4 8.480 16 4.8539 d'llO 307.844-14 1817 0 9.G00 1968 6.47-10 G .3.078-14 18 5 7.776 19 8.2247 700 350.15185 2154 10 11.200 22.')() 7.5530 7 3.59152 21 6 7.072 22 11.5955 800 410.45.026 24()2 9 0.800 2624 8.6320 8 4.10459 24 7 (;.3(i8 26 -'.9(;(i3 900 461.76667 2770 7 2.400 2952 9.7110 9 4.G1767 27 8 5.G64 29 G.;tt7l 1000 513.07-107 8078 5 4.00U 3280 10.7.9011 10 ,5.13074 30 9 4.960 .32 9.7079 2000 1026.14815 61,56 10 8.00:) (;56l ,9.,5800 20 10.26148 61 G 9.920 ()5 7.41.58 3000 15.39.22222 92.35 ■1 0.000 9842 8.3700 30 15..39222 92 4 2.880 ,98 ,5.li.'37 4000 2052.296,30 12313 9 4.000 13123 7.1600 40 20.52296 123 1 7.840 131 2.8316 50110 25()5.370;i7 153,92 •J 8.000 16404 5.,')50() 50 25.6'5370 1,53 11 0.8(10 164 0.53;»5 (iOOO 3078,44444 18170 8 0.000 19685 4.740(1 60 30.78144 184 8 .5.7G(» 196 10.2474 7000 ;i.)9i.5];i52 21549 1 4.000 2:.'96(; 3.5:!()0 70 3.5.91519 215 6 10.720 229 7..95.'>;i 8000 4I04.592.')J) 24627 6' 8.000 2(>247 2. .32(10 80 41.04593 24(; 3 .3.680 2()2 5.6V;.3-J !»l)Ot) l617.6'G(i(i7 27706 0 0.000 29528 1.110(1 90 4G. 17667 277 0 8'.G40 295 .•(..3711 10000 5130,74074 ;;o784 ,5 4,000 3J808 11.,9000 100 51.;{0741 307 10 l.GOO .328 1.0790English Feety Sfc. 12 TABLE XII.—Millimetres. MiUim. Toises. I-'reiich lines. English lines. MlHim. Tolscs. French IJncs. 1 0.00061 0.448 0.0394 60 0.03078 26.698 2.3622 2 0.00103 0.887 0.0787 70 0.03692 31.031 2.7560 3 0.00154 1.330 0.1181 80 0.04105 35.464 3.1497 4 0.00205 1.773 0.1575 90 0.04618 39.897 3.54.34 6 0.00257 2.216 0.1969 100. 0.05131 44.330 3.9371 6 0.00308 2.660 0.2362 200 0.10261 88.659 7.8742 7 0.00359 3.103 0.2756 300 0.15392 132.989 ' 11.8112 8 0.00410 3.546 0.3150 400 , ,0.20523 .177.318 15.7483 ■ 0.00462 3.990 0.3643 500 0.25654 221.648 19.68M 10 I 0.00513 4.43S 0.3937 600 0.30784 265.978 23.6225 20ii 0.01026 8.866 0.7874 700 0.36915 310.307 27.5596 soil' ' 0.01639 13.299 ' "■'i.isn- ' sbo 0.41046 364.637 31.4966 40 0.02052 17.732 1.6748 900 0.46177 398.966 35.4337 60 TP 0.02565 ■1 jl'irillir' ,22,J6^ „ 1.9685 ; '..E XIII.—Enolish Feet. Eng. lieet. Toises. Metres. Krench English feet. Tolscs. Metres French Feet In. Lines. FeeL la. Lines. 1 0.16638 0.30479 0 11 3.114 200 31.27643 60.95850 187 7 10.836 2 0.31276 0.60959 1 iO 6:228 300 46.91465 91.43835 281 5 10.2.54 3 0.46915 0.91438 % 9, 9.343 400 62:55286 121.91780 ^ 375 3 9.672 4 0.62553 1.21918 3 ,9' 0.4,57 5Q0 ; 7.8.19108 152.39725 469 1 9.090 5 0.78191 1.52397 8' 3,571 : ,600 , , 93.82929 182.87670 562 11 8.508 6 0.93829 1.82877 5 ' '7 6.685 700 109.46751 213.35615 656 9 7.926 7 1.09468 2.13356 6 6 9.799 800 125.10672 243.83559 750 7 7.344 8 1.25106 2.43836 7:., 1 6 0.913 900 140.74394 274.31504 844 5 6.762 9 1.40744 2.74315 8 5 4.028 1000 156.36215 304.79449 938 3 6.180 10 1.56382 3.04794 9 4 7.142 2000 312.76431 609.58899 1876 7 0.360 20 3.12764 6.09689 18 9 2.284 3000 469.14646 914.38348 2814 10 6-539 30 4.69146 9.14383 28 1 9.426 4000 626.52861 1219.17797 3753 2 0-719 40 6.25529 12.19178 37 6 4.567 5000 781.91076 1623.97246 4691 6-899 60 7.81911 15.23972 46 10 11.709 6000 938.29292 1828.76696 5629 9 1.079 60 9.38293 18.28767 56 3 6.851 7000 1094.67507 2133.56145 6568 0 7-259 70 10.94675 21.33561 65 8 1.993 8000 1251.05722 24.38.35594 7506 4 1-438 80 12.51067 24.38536 75 0 9.134 9000 1407.43937 2743.16044 8444 7 7-618 90 14.07439 27.431.50 84 6 4.276 10000 1563.82153 3047.94493 9383 11 1.796 100 16.63822 30.47945 93 9 11.418 TABLE XIV ENGtrsH tiiCHEs. Inch. Toises. French Milllm. ^ Inch. i,\r ^ ^Tolscs. .- ■ ii. French MUliin. In. Lines. In. Lines. 1 0.01303 0 11.260 25.400 ■.. 7 8 .. ,9,,,.. 10 11 0.09122 6 6.817 177.797 2 3 4 5 6 0.02606 0.03910 0.0,5213 0.06516 0.07819 1 2 3 /4 5 10.519 9.779 9.038 8.298 7 557 50.799 76.199 101.598 126.998 162.397 010426 „ 0.11729 0.13032 0.14335 7 8 9 10 6.076 6.336 4.595 3.855 203.197 228.596 253.995 279.395 .... — .■(iV