185 HUNTING. succulent.63 Apicius has consecrated to it four culinary recipes, all very similar. Deer a la Marcellas.—Put into a saucepan pepper, gravy, rue, and onions; add honey, garum, cooked wine, and a little oil. Boil very slowly, thicken with flour, and pour the whole on the deer when roasted/’4 THE WILD BOAR. It was in the year 63 before the Christian era : the consul Marcus Tullius Cicero had just accused and convicted Catilina, and Borne, free from present danger, had forgotten all transitory solicitudes of the past to welcome joyous banquetings. A worthy citizen, excellent patriot, distinguished gastronomist, and possessor of an immense fortune, of which he made the best use (at least so said several choice epicures, his habitual guests), Survilius Kullus— such was his name—thought of celebrating by an extraordinary banquet the triumph of the illustrious consul, and the deliverance of the country. His cook, a young Sicilian slave of the greatest promise, and whose mode of cooking a dish of sows’ paps procured him one day a smile of approbation from Lucullus, succeeded especially in those eminent per- formances which command the admiration of the guests, and give new strength to their exhausted appetites. Bullus sent for him, and spoke thus: “ Becollect that in three days Cicero will sup here: let the feast he worthy of him who gives it.” The Sicilian even surpassed himself. As soon as the guests had tasted the enticing delicacies of the first course, the hall echoed with an unanimous concert of applause, and the proud Amphitryon, intoxicated with joy, was going to ask that a crown might he presented to his beloved slave,05 when the cook appeared, followed by four Ethiopians, who gracefully carried a silver vase of prodigious dimensions, in the shape of a large mortar. This extraordinary dish contained a wrild boar; baskets of dates were suspended to his tusks, and charming little wild boars, in exquisite pastry, no doubt—for never was there a more tempting culinary exhalation—artistically surrounded the enormous animal.60 Every voice was hushed; the guests waited in silence the M