FEATHERED GAME. 208 brother of Yitellius served to the voracious emperor !00 And yet all these follies fall far short of those they committed through their love of fish. The inventive genius of the Greeks discovered in ichthyophagy strange refinements, though always impressed with we know not what kind of propriety, which seems to palliate their excesses. The Romans at first imitated, and soon afterwards surpassed them. Their frightful gluttony was revived by crime, and exulted in barbarity. The sea eels (conger, or murcma Helena) will not eat; let a slave be thrown to them, young and healthy, his flesh will be more tempting and alive, that his struggle against unspeakable tortures may the better irritate the devour- ing ardour of these beloved fish. And a few days afterwards, the grave patrician, or the noble knight, again offered them this human food ; and no remorse, no doubt, no gloom, ever clouded his brow, no thrill of horror crossed his mind, while he feasted on those sea eels he had fat- tened so well. More than two-thirds of the inhabitants of the most civilised coun- tries were plunged in slavery, and employed solely to gratify the sen- suality of the other third. That alone gives a terrifying idea of the contempt in which man was held by his fellow-man, of the power of egotism, and of the vast corruption resulting from it. And what cruelties were committed in the face of heaven, sanctioned by the law, and by the manners and customs of society! The masters had absolute power over their slaves, and could punish them with blows or death at their own will and pleasure.97 If an unfortunate servant happened to taste a sauce, or the remains of a fish, this unpardonable crime was often punished by crucifixion.98 The virtuous Cato sold his old slaves at whatever price they would fetch, rather than feed useless beings. The senator, Q. Flaminius, put one of his domestics to death as a new spectacle for one of his friends, who had never enjoyed the pleasure of seeing a man killed.100 If the father of a family was assassinated in his house, and the murderer was not discovered, all the slaves were subject to the capital punishment. One of the grandees of Rome, who pos- sessed four hundred of them, having been killed by one of the number, they were all put to death.101 At the funeral of rich persons, a certain number of slaves were often slain as victims agreeable to their manes. And what is remarkable is, that these things, which we can hardly believe, were not viewed as excesses, not even as an abuse of power, but simply as the exercise of a natural right. Such scenes were witnessed