BEVERAGES. 312 name of bon, bun, or loan: his work appeared in 159J. In 1G14, Bacon mentioned this oriental beverage, and Meissner published a treatise on it in 1021. It was not, however, until towards the year 1645, that it began to be drunk in Italy. The first cafes were opened in London in 1652, and in Paris in 1669, a time at which a pound of coffee was worth forty crowns. It was principally Soliman Aga, the ambassador from Turkey, who caused coffee to become fashionable in Paris. It penetrated into Sweden in the year 1 674, where it was thought of use in scorbutic diseases. The first person who made trial of coffee with milk was Nieuhoff, the Dutch ambassador in China, in imitation of tea with milk. “The physical effects of coffee are well known: it accelerates the cir- culation of the blood, but sometimes causes palpitation of the heart and giddiness; it has even been thought to occasion apoplexy and paralysis. Nevertheless, celebrated writers—such asFontenelle and Voltaire made constant use of it, almost to an abuse. They were told, it is a slow ■poison; it was indeed slow for these learned men, who died, the one at a hundred, the other eighty-four years of age. However, at the pre- sent time coffee is a beverage whose power over our intellectual or moral habits has, perhaps, never been calculated as it deserves, since it has become general, and almost suppressed the drunkenness which disgraced our ancestors at the end of their grand repasts. ^ ire^ . The subject we have just slightly touched upon recalls to our recol- lection a whim of the charming Sevigne: “ Le cafe et Racine pas- seront,” said this amiable lady, nearly two hundred years ago. The beautiful marchioness was mistaken : both coffee and Racine ha\e re- mained, and do not appear likely soon to bid us adieu. CHOCOLATE. Every one is aware that chocolate is an aliment obtained from the cocoa-nut, roasted and reduced to paste, with sugar and aromatics. But first, the choice of cocoa nuts is not indifferent. Those from Soconusco, from Caracas, and Maracaibo, are the best