104 STONE FRUIT. day ; or near the Naval Camp, outside the Trigemina Gate. Some years later the agriculturists of the Roman suburbs brought into the city some excellent ones at a very low price; hut the fashion and the taste for them had gone by. “ The green apricot is preserved before the stone becomes hard; when ripe it is eaten raw, cooked, or stewed in marmalade ; preserves are made of it, as well as a dried paste, which keeps a long time; they are also preserved in brandy. The stone as it is, or broken, is used in latafia of Noyau. Lastly, the kernel produces oil.”—Dutour. PEACH TREE. This fruit tree, originally from Persia, was first transplanted into Greece,64 where it existed a long time before it passed into Italy. It was still quite a novelty in Rome towards the middle of the 1st century of the Christian era, and the rich alone could eat peaches, for they cost no less than Til 18s. 4d. the dozen, or Ids. 9cl. each. This is rather dear fruit, however good it may be. But the bill of fare of certain banquets will show us, by-and-by, whether the Roman gastronomies knew how to spend their gold profusely, when they wished to satisfy a caprice or enjoy some dainty curiosity. It was believed in Rome that the peach contained a deadly poison when gathered in Persia;66 but that, once transplanted to another soil, it lost its injurious properties. This singular opinion, still held by many persons in the present day, has been refuted by 1 liny, who treats it as a ridiculous idea;67 at any rate, Galen08 and Dioscondes63 assert that this fruit is indigestible, unwholesome, and that it often causes fevers. The high price of peaches, and the short duration of their fresh- ness, caused amateurs to seek the means of preserving them for the longest possible time. The following is the recipe given by Apicius:— “ Choose the finest of this fruit, and place them in water, saturated with salt. The next day take them out, dry them with the greatest care, and then put them into a vessel with savory, vinegar, and salt.’70