I 348 REPASTS. Vitellius was by nature a non-reformer. That voracious Caesar ope- rated on a large scale; lie spent in four months, for his suppers, a little more than five millions sterling.92 A trifle for a Roman emperor! Did not the riches and labour of Europe, Asia, and Africa, form his civil list ? It is quite true that out of this modest revenue he had to find corn to stop the cravings of the proletarians, and provide the games of the Circus, in order to amuse them in their dangerous idleness. But Vitellius, who had no other passion than that of good cheer, was royally equal to the task. And these things cause no surprise when we re- member that a Roman general, Lucullus, spent not less than Tl,000 to offer a little collation to two of his friends, who refused him the time he required to treat them in a less unceremonious mauner. We find in the history of “ Jack of Newbury"™ instructions relative to the manner in which an English tradesman was to feed the persons in his employment in the 16th century, which would certainly not be very pleasing now to that useful and laborious class :— “ You feed your folks with the best of beef and the finest of wheat, which is an oversight; neither do I hear of any knight in this country that doth it, and, to say the truth, how were they able to bear that part which they do, if they saved it not by some means? Come thither, and I warrant you that you shall see brown bread upon the board , if it be of wheat and rye mingled together, it is a great matter, and biead most highly commended, but most commonly they eat barley bread, or rye mingled with peasen or such-like coarse grain, which is doubtless of small price, and there is no other bread allowed except it be at their own board; and in like manner for their meat, it is well known that necks and points of beef is their ordinary fare; which, because it is commonly lean, they seeth therewith now and then a piece of bacon or pork, whereby they make their pottage fat, and therewith drive out the rest with more content: and this you must do. And besides that, the mid- riffs of oxen, and the cheeks, the sheep’s heads, and the gathers, winch you give away at your gate, might serve them well enough; this would be a great spareing to your meat, and by this means you would save much money in the year, whereby you might better maintain your French hood and silk gown. The following is the style of living at the court of the Dauphin o France in the 14th century:— As in all well-regulated houses, there were five repasts, viz.: the