330 WINE. The Greeks endeavoured to preclude the disastrous effects of in- toxication by putting sea-water into the wine ; a mixture which they also thought had the effect of assisting digestion. One measure of water was enough for fifty measures of wine.114 And, again, the merchants of that nation took so much interest in the health of foreign consumers that they never shipped the wines of the Archipelago for Rome or elsewhere without diluting them in this manner. Such, for example, was the course followed in concocting that celebrated vine of Chios, which Cato imitated so as to deceive the best judges.1 lj That honest geoponic has transmitted us his secret. Fifty-six pints of old sea-vrater are thrown into a pipe of sv'eet wine made with grapes dried in the sun ; or two-thirds of a bushel of salt are put into a rush basket, and suspended in the middle of the pipe, where it is left to melt. This very simple process metamorphoses the most indifferent liquor into that delightful nectar which gave renown andfortune to the isle of Cos. The saline wine of the Greeks (vinum tethalassomenon) was nothing else.117 Their thalassites wine, so much in demand in Italy on account of its apparent age, owed its reputation to the fact of its having been plunged for some time in the sea.118 This little trading knavery was a tolei’ably innocent means of increasing the profits of the speculator who hastened the maturity of his wines without employing any of those deleterious ingredients which illicit traders have introduced at a later period. When the wine had remained a sufficient time in the sea to give it age, it wras drawn off into goatskin bottles, well coated with pitch, and, in this manner it supported the longest sea voyages. The following are the made wines most in vogue in olden times. The Passum was one of those most esteemed in Rome, particularly when it came from Crete.120 It was made with grapes, spread in the sun until they were reduced in weight to one-half. The pips, thus dried, were then put into a butt containing some excellent voit ^ hen they were well soaked, they were crushed with the feet, and then subjected to a slight pressure in the wine-press. Sometimes they simply plunged the fresh grapes into boiling oil, instead of exposing them to the sun, and the result was the same.1'1 The Dulce wine was obtained by drying the grapes in the sun for three days, and crushing them with the feet on the fourth, at the time of the greatest heat.122 The Emperor Commodus thought this a most delectable drink.123