FEATHERED GAME. 200 China is covered with spawn, which has the appearance of half-dissolved glue, and that he had learned from the Malays and the Cochin Chinese that’the salangan builds its nest with this spawn. All agreed on this point. The bird picks it up as he skims the water, or from the rocks where the spawn coagulates. It is at the end of July and the com- mencement of August that the Cochin Chinese collect the nests, and, as the young birds are hatched in March and April, the species do not suffer by it. , By the subsequent examination of these nests it was found t lat they presented the form of the half of a hollow, lengthened ellipsoid. They are composed, externally, of very thin lamina:, nearly concentric, and laid one over the other. The interior presents several layers of irregular net-work, superposed one over another, and formed of a multi- tude of threads of the same matter as the external lamina:, and which cross and re-cross in every direction. Their composition, which has a slight taste of salt, is of a ye owis white and demi-transparent; it softens in warm water without dissolving, and increases in volume. It is a substantial food, and would he excel- lent for persons suffering from exhaustion, whose debUe stomachs ill perform their functions. Poivre declares that he never eat anything more fortifying than a pottage made with these nests and some g00T”eTalangan nests are of two sorts-tlie white and the black It appears that the white nests are those of the same year, and that the black ones belong to an epoch less recent. The birds are engaged about two months in preparing them, and the Chinese do not take them aw y until the young ones are feathered, and begin to be pretty st.ong the wing.104 This nomenclature would be incomplete, did we not briefly mont some kinds of game which appeared with more or less favour on tables of the ancients. p ;Q The Wood-Hen, dear to the Greeks," was not common at Borne m the time of Varro. The curious reared them in aviaries with other bil'The Bustard, the Water-Hen, and the Teal, found many admirers 86