PIP FRUIT. 100 bridegroom should be content with a single apple, while his guests were regaling themselves at his expense. Who would believe it? This law was religiously observed by the Greeks, and the Persians thought it so original that they, in their turn, adopted it.23 The Latins gave a favourable reception to the apple tree, and culti- vated it with care. Eminent citizens of Rome did not disdain to give their names and patronage to different kinds procured by themselves, or which they had improved in their orchards. The Manlian apples were so called after Manlius ; the Claudian after Claudius, their patron; the Appian owed their name to Appius. Some others preserved that of their native country: such were the Sidonians, the Greeks, and the Epirotes. After the conquest of Gaul, the Romans introduced all these fruits ;24 and as the climate was more favourable to apple trees than that of Italy, they soon multiplied to a surprising extent. France ought to be grateful to those proud warriors for a present that enriched that pro- vince of the empire, and which jjerhajDS still contributes to its prosperity. LEMON TREE. Among the richest productions of Media, Virgil mentions a tree, to whose fruit he attributes the greatest virtues against all poisons. The description he gives of it seems to belong to the lemon tree.25 How- ever this may be, its origin, and even its identity, have given rise to the most animated disputations. Many have asserted that Juba, King of Mauritania (50 years b.c.), spoke of the lemon tree, and that he looked upon it as being very ancient. They add, that the Lybians gave to its fruit the name of “ Hesperide apples,” that Hercules stole, and which, on account of their colour, were called “golden apples” by the Greeks, who were indebted to that hero for their introduction.26 Others maintain that no one has spoken of them before Theo- phrastus,27 who called them “ Median apples,” after the place of their origin; and that consequently those persons were wrong who con- founded them with the apples taken from the garden of the Hes- perides.28