2.r>7 THE COOK. Rome! Lucullos caused to be served to Cicero and Pompey a little ambigu, which cost £1,000. There were only three of them to partake of it! The Emperor Claudius had generally six hundred guests at his table.24 Yitellius did not spend less than £3,200 for each of his repasts ;25 and the composition of his favourite dishes required that vessels should unceasingly ply between the Gulf of Venice and the Straits of Cadiz.20 It must be confessed that cooks of that gastronomic era had to fulfil an incessant and most laborious task. What was then more natural than to abandon to them some thousands of those sesterces, which the profusion of the master devoured by millions, in the form of pheni- copters’ tongues, scarus or parrot-fishes’ livers, and peacocks’ brains ? We see that the Ca3sars encouraged this frightful gastronomic mono- mania. Tiberius gave more than £3,000 to the author of a dialogue, in which the interlocutors were mushrooms, fig-peckers, oysters, and thrushes.’27 Galba breakfasted before day-break, and the breakfast would have enriched a hundred families.28 iElius Verus invented the pentaphar- tnacum, a kind of Macedoine, composed of sows’ flanks, pheasants, peacocks, ham, and wild boars’ flesh.29 Geta insisted upon having as many courses as there were letters in the alphabet, and each of these courses must contain all the viands whose name began by the same letter.30 These follies, which cooks were forced to obey, continued to astonish the world until the moment when Rome—with her gods, the monuments of her ancient glory, and of her recent turpitudes—crumbled beneath the invincible weight of that horde of barbarians, that mysterious and implacable scourge, which Divine vengeance reserved for the punishment of unheard-of crimes. But, as we have before remarked, the magiric art always survives revolutions and ruin of empires. Modern Italy inherited the wrecks of Roman cookery, and, thanks to her, Europe is at the present day acquainted with the delights of good cheer, and the charm of joyous repasts. Under the reign of Louis XII. there arose a company of sauce manufacturers, who obtained the exclusive privilege of making sauces, lien-statutes (1304) inform us that the famous sauce d la cameline.