FISIL 215 XII. was very foncl of good cheer, and, consequently, he appointed six fishmongers to supply his table with fresh-water fish; Francis I. had twenty-two ;20 Henry the Great, twenty-four.27 Under the reign of Louis XIV. fish acquired a singular vogue in the city as well as at court, owing to the marvellous talent of that prince’s cook, who discovered the art, supposed to be lost, of giving to the delicate flesh of the pike, the carp, and the trout, the shape and flavour of the most exquisite game. At this period we have the celebrated Vatel, one of the most illus- trious officers of the household that ever flourished in the palace of the Princes of Conde. This inimitable major-domo understood that a dinner without fish was a cheerless one. One day when his noble master entertained Louis XIV. at a royal banquet, at Chantilly, which the genius of Vatel rendered more brilliant, the fish from the coast failed ; he sent everywhere, but none could be found. He was completely bewildered: he met his august master, whose kind words, full of bene- volence, only served to increase his desperation; he left him, ran to his chamber, took his sword, and three times pierced his heart. Shortly after, fish arrived from all quarters. Vatel was called—no Vatel! He was sought for, and at last discovered—Vatel was no more! It appears that, in former times, there was a remarkable consumption of fish in England on the 4th of July, the Festival of St. Ulric. The. following verses, by Barnaby Gouge prove it:— ST. HULDRYCHE. “ Wheresoever Huldryche hath his place, the people there brings in Both capes and pykes, and mullets fat, his favour here to win. Amid the church there sittieth one, and to the aultar nie, That selleth fish, and so good cheep, that every man may buie ; Nor any thing he loseth here, bestowing thus his paine, For when it hath beene offred once, ’t is brought him all againe, That twise or thrise he selles the same, vngodlinesse such gaine Both still bring in, and plentiously the kitchen doth maintaine, Whence comes this same religion newe ? What kind of God is this, Same Huldryche here, that so desires and so delightes in fishe ? 88 ” An ordinance of King John informs us that, in the 14th century, people eat porpoises and even seals.20 In the days of the troubadours, they fished for dolphins and whales in the Mediterranean, and the flesh of these sea monsters was considered excellent.30