SHELL FRUIT. 118 When young, they are preserved like green apricots. They are eaten at table, fresh or dry; in comfits, pastry, &c.: they are also used to make orgeat and refreshing emulsions. The oil extracted from almonds, even bitter ones, is very sweet; it is best extracted cold, by pressure. The pulp is employed, under the name of almond paste, for several purposes, one of which is to render the skin soft and flexible.9 WALNUT TREE. Asia, the cradle of most fruit trees, gave birth also to the walnut tree. It is believed to be a native of Persia,10 and its pleasing foliage already adorned, in Biblical times, the orchards of the east. One of the most ancient of the sacred books informs us that it was known to the Jews,11 and it may be inferred from a passage in the Song of Solomon that they possessed numerous plantations of this tree.12 Among the Persians, walnuts were not lavished on the first comer, as with us ; the sovereign reserved them for his dessert, and the people were obliged to abstain from them. But perhaps it may be said that, however fond this prince may have been of walnuts, he could not eat all that were produced in his states. The objection is embarrassing, we own, and chroniclers are silent on this point. But let us suppose that this generous potentate distributed to his favourites the walnuts from which his satiated appetite was compelled to abstain; and, indeed, we find that a king of Persia sent some to the Greeks, who called them “ Royal Persian nuts,”13 in gratitude and remembrance of the august gift. They did still better; the king of Olympus had a great liking for this fruit, so they hastened to consecrate it to him,14 and the “ nuts of Jupiter” were cultivated with honour in the whole of Greece.15 Italy received the walnut tree from Attica, and, by degrees, the con- querors of the world introduced it to the different countries of Europe. The Romans, imitators of the piety of the Greeks, placed this tree also under the protection of the most powerful of their gods One of their most whimsical customs, perhaps, owred its origin to this conse- cration, which will serve to explain it:—