A ROMAN SUPPER. 302 capons' livers.00 peppered bec'aficoes,01 grouse, the turtle-dove, the phenicopter,02 and an infinite number of rare birds, the costly tribute that Europe, Asia, and Africa, exchanged against the gold of the pro- digal Seba. Other gold and silver dishes contained those inestimable fishes which Roman luxury brought so much into fashion; the scarus, oi parrot fish, sturgeons, turbots, mullets, and those numerous inhabit- ants of every sea with which the tanks were stocked, to supply the kitchen of the freed-slave. Moreover, there were wild boars a la Troyenne,83 ranged in the centre of the table, in silver basins of a prodigious value; stuffed pigs, quarters of stag and roebuck, loins of beef, kidneys surrounded with African figs,0* sows’ paps prepared with milk,03 sows’ flank,00 and some pieces of Gallic bacon,07 which certain gluttons loved to associate with a . piece of succulent venison. While the carvers were cutting up the meats with incredible address, to the sound of a light but animated music, Numidian slaves filled the cups from small leathern bottles with old Greek wine,08 a servant carried bread round the tables in a silver basket,03 and others ventilated the apartment,70 or offered the guests warm and iced water.71 In every direction trays circulated, covered with divers kinds of meats,72 which they took care to humect with peppered garum,73 that strange condiment, which the freed-slave procured from Spain at a price equal to its weight in gold. Suddenly the symposiarch commands silence: the musicians obey —the slaves are motionless. “ Let us drain our cups,” said he, “ in honour of Csesar. Let us celebrate the tenth anniversary of his glorious reign, and his happy return to the metropolis of the world. Let us drink, senators and knights, as many craters as there are letters in the cherished name of the emperor.”7* Sense and reason must have succumbed, had the patrician assembly toasted Caius Lucius Domitius Nero: it would have been constructive treason not to empty twenty-three cups ; but they limited themselves to four, which represented the last of these names. Joy unrestrained floated with the fumy wine, furnished from large DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XXXI. No 1. Carious silver dish, with Etruscan letters engraved around the head of Medusa. Petronius speaks of two silver dishes, upon which were engraved the name of Trimaleion, and the weight of each dish.—Atiikn. ; Stuakt. Nos. 2 and 3. Silver dishes.—Gorbir, " Etruscan Mui."