FISH. 227 EEL. In some parts of Egypt the eel was not eaten, because it was thought indigestible.120 In other places it received religious worship.121 They were ornamented, whether they liked it or not, with silver, gold, and precious stones, and priests daily offered them the entrails of animals and cheese.122 The Greeks thought highly of eels. “ Behold the Helen of feasts! cried Eidicastes, at the moment when one was served ; “ I will he her Paris ! ”123 and the glutton seized and devoured it immediately. Bceotia—where this fish was immolated to the gods124—the straits of Sicily,125 and the Copian lake, furnished eels remarkable for their delicacy and size;120 these were served fried and enveloped in beet leaves.127 They enjoyed a high reputation among the Sybarites, a choice nation, who would have invented cookery if the art had not already existed, and among whom a repast was so serious a matter, that a whole year was not thought too long in order to meditate upon it and get it ready.128 But Hippocrates did not like the eel, and he forbade it to his patients, and to persons attacked with a pulmonary affection.129 So that this Queen of Luxury, as Archestrates calls it,130 met with as many enemies as partisans. Egypt adored it, Greece was enamoured of it, Rome despised it, and the plebeian alone reserved it to the humiliation in his brutal orgies.131 Apicius, however, has condescended to notice this fish. Mix, says he, pepper, alisander, parsley seed, dill, and dates; add to this honey, vinegar, garum, oil, mustard, and cooked wine;132 serve this sauce with the eel. Nations have their ages of splendour—viands have their epochs of celebrity and glory. This one seems to us fast falling into decay, in spite of some isolated efforts in order to make it reflourish. When Rockingham was named member of parliament, he ordered thirteen barrels of eels to be brought to London, for the banquet he gave on that occasion.133 No one to our knowledge has since prepared so gigantic a matelote. •