SHELL FRUIT. 122 “To eat chesnuts green all the year, boil them in water for fifteen or twenty minutes; put them afterwards in a common oven, one hour after the bread has been taken out. By this double operation the chesnuts acquire a degree of cooking and desiccation, by which they can be preserved a very long time, provided they are kept in a dry place. They can be used afterwards by putting them to warm in a bain-marie.” —Dutouk. POMEGRANATE. Ceres, disconsolate on account of the loss of her daughter, to whom Pluto destined the sceptre of Hell, implored the ruler of Olympus to restore Proserpine. Jupiter promised that the favour should be granted, provided that she had not partaken of anything in the infernal regions. Now, she had eaten some grains of a pomegranate; very few indeed; some serious authors have said three; others, quite as respectable, say nine. The fact is, however, Proserpine had broken her fast; theiefoie she might think herself fortunate in being allowed to pass six months on earth and six months in the abode of darkness. Tnis little mytliologic story informs us that the pomegranate tree was known to antiquity, and that the garden of the Elysian fields contained most excellent fruit for the use of its melancholy inhabitants. The pomegranate, whose acidulated flavour is so pleasing to the inhabitants of hot climates, was first cultivated in the east, then in Africa, but especially in the environs of Carthage, from whence the Romans brought it into Italy, where it was commonly called the Carthaginian apple;43 it was also named Granatum, on account of the number of its seeds.41 Pliny distinguishes five different species of promegranate; Columella teaches the way to rear this tree ;46 and Apicius treats of the preservation of its fruit, to do which it is only necessary to plunge it in boiling water, take it out immediately, and suspend it from the ceiling.47 The Greeks were very fond of pomegranates. The finest came horn Attica, so celebrated by the genius of its inhabitants; and from Boeotia,48 that privileged soil, where agriculture and stupidity flouris e together.49