FISH. 2*20 “ It is with the eggs of mullets, when salted, pressed, washed, and dried, that the preparation known as botargo or botarcha is made. It is very recherche in Italy, and other southern countries, as a seasoning." —Dr. Cloquet. SEA-EEL. The sumptuous abode of L. Crassus echoes with his sighs and groans. His children and slaves respect his profound sorrow, and leave him with intelligent affection to solitude—that friend of great grief; so grateful to the afflicted soul, because tears can flow unwit- nessed. Alas! the favourite sea-eel of Crassus is dead, and it is uncer- tain whether Crassus can survive it! This sensitive Roman caused this beloved fish to be buried with great magnificence: he raised a monument to its memory, and never ceased to mourn for it.58 This man, who displayed so little teuderness towards his servants, had an extraordinary weakness concerning his fine sea-eels. He passed his life beside the superb fish-pond, where he lovingly fattened them from his own hand. Ornamented with necklaces of the finest pearls, and earrings of precious stones,59 all, at a signal, swam towards him; several fearlessly took the food he offered them; and some, as familiar as their absent and regretted companion, allowed then master to caress them without seeking to bite or avoid him. This singular passion, which at the present day we can hardly be- lieve in spite of the respectable authority of the most serious writers, was ’very common at Rome, amongst those who were rich enough to rear such fish. C. Hirtius was the first to construct fish ponds on the sea shore, to which many visitors were attracted by their magnificence.91 The family of Licinius took their surname of Mur mi a from these fish, in order thus to perpetuate the most silly affection, and the remembrance • *62 of their insanity. Sea-eels necessarily pleased men cloyed with pleasures, and who substituted a kind of cold and cruel curiosity for the terrible emo- tions which beings peculiarly organized hope to find in evil-doing: