KITCHEN GARDEN. 72 qualities, which ought to have compensated for its outward defects. It was thought to he very refreshing, and was employed with success in the treatment of diseases of the eyes.108 We might undertake (if permitted) a long dissertation, in order to prove that the Hebrews, weary of being in the Desert, murmured because they were deprived of the pompion of Egypt,109 and not the melon, as translators have rendered it; but we should be accused of egregious presumption; the learned would frown, critics would not spare us, and our pompions would, nevertheless, pass as melons. This plant occupies a prominent place in the precious catalogue of Roman dainties which we offer for the meditation of judges. Here are some of the ancient modes of preparing this vegetable : 1st. Boil some pompions, jmt them in a stewpan with cummin and a little oil; place them for a short time over a slow fire, and serve.110 2nd. When you have well boiled, reduce them to a pulp, then put them on a dish with pepper, alisander, cummin, wild marjoram, onion, wine, garum, and oil; thicken with flour, and serve.111 3rd. When the pompion has boiled in water, it is then seasoned with wild fennel, sylphium,112 dried mint, vinegar, and garum.113 CUCUMBER. When the Israelites were in the Desert they regretted much the cucumbers of Egypt, which were sold to them at a very trifling price when under the yoke of Pharaoh.114 We may thence infer that this vegetable was very plentiful, and chiefly in great demand by the lower order of people; for as the Jews were in a state of servitude, they were necessarily assimilated with the most abject of the Egyptians. We see that this cucurbitacea has been long known, and that, after the lapse of many centuries, it is held in the same degree of estimation it enjoyed among the Eastern nations. The Greeks thought much of the cucumber, particularly of that kind which came from the environs of Antioch.11" They attributed to this plant marvellous properties, which modern scepticism has completely