REPASTS. 349 morning (except on fast clays), the breakfast; the repast of ten o’clock, (dix heures, or the decimlieure; by abbreviation decimer, ancl by a second abbreviation, diner)—the dinner; the second dinner, the supper {souper), at which they eat no more soup than we do ; and lastly, the night repast, which they called a collation. As an every-day fare, the Dauphin took for his dinner a rice pottage, with leeks or cabbage, a piece of beef, another of salt pork, a dish of six hens or twelve pullets, divided in two, a piece of roast pork, cheese, and fruit; at supper, apiece of roast beef, a dish of brains, neat’s feet, with vinegar, cheese and fruit. Other days, other dishes, which were also pre-arranged with respect to kind and quantity. The barons of the court had always the half of the quantity of the Dauphin ; the knights, the quarter ; the equerries and chaplains, the eighth. The dis- tributions of wine and bread were made in the same proportions ; such a rank, such weight, such measure ; so that the young and delicate baroness had four pots of wine, while the chorister and the chaplain had but one.94 We are indebted to the learned Monteil for the following details relative to the public repasts of Louis XIV.:—95 The usher of the court, at the hour named, goes and knocks with his wand at the door of the hall of the body-guard, and says : “ Gentle- men, to the king’s table!” a guard is dispatched, who follow him to the goblet, where one of the officers for the service of the table takes the nave. The guard accompany him, marching by his side, sword in hand. Having arrived at the dining-room, the officers spread the cloth, try the napkins, the fork, the spoon, the knife, and the tooth-picks; that is to say, they touch them with a morsel of bread, which they afterwards eat. The usher returns again to the hall of the body-guard, knocks at the door with his wand, and cries: “Gentlemen, the king’s meat!” Four guards then follow him to the ambry, where the equerry of the household and the chief steward, or major-domo, test the dishes, by dipping a piece of bread, which they eat. After this, the king’s meat is carried, the guards marching with their drawn swords on either side; the chief steward, preceded by the usher, walkiug in front. When he arrives near the table, he approaches the nave, and makes his obeisance to it; and if the announcer, or any other person desire also to do it, he may. The gentlemen-in-waiting place the dishes successively, and the table being covered with them, the king then enters.