337 WINE. writings. The inhabitants of Burgundy pretended that the wine of Champagne owed its vogue entirely to the influence of Colbert and Louvois, the then ministers, one of whom was a native of Champagne, and the other in possession of immense vineyards. The Champagne growers proved that this assertion was false in every particular. Long before the time of these two statesmen, said they, the French got tipsy on Champagne wine ; ergo, they valued that exhibiting liquor. This argument was irrefragable. They might have added that, from the 1 Gth century, the wine of Ai, a canton of Champagne, enjoyed such renown that the Emperor Charles V., Pope Leo X., Henry VIII. of England, and Francis I. of France, were anxious to possess this nectar, and tra- dition assures us that each of these great sovereigns purchased a close at A'i, in which a little house was built for a vine-dresser, who sent them everv year a stock of wine, which enlivened their repasts.100 The epicureans took part in this great discussion, and that they might give their judgment after mature deliberation, founded on a perfect knowledge of facts, they have been tasting Champagne and Burgundy wines these two hundred years. May the vouchers in this suit never fail them! Wine was long used for presents and fees—a custom established under Charlemagne. After a baptism, a marriage, or a burial, the priests received the vicar s wine; before marriage, wedding wine was offered to the intended bride; after a law-suit, the counsellor was pre- sented with clerk's wine; the wine of citizenship was given to the mayor of a town in which any person took up his abode. This present sub- sequently took the name of pot-de-vin (bribe), still in great favour. It has changed its character, certainly, but the variations have multiplied to infinity.107 In the middle ages sober people intoxicated themselves regularly once a month. Arnaud de Villeneuve examines seriously the advan- tages of this Hygienic custom.108 There was a kind of glory attached to the swallowing of more wine than any other man without being non compos mentis. There was, however, a means of avoiding these baccha- nalian encounters. It was, to choose a champion who, as in judicial combats, accepted the challenges for his candidate, to whom the victory or defeat was attributed, as if he himself had drank.109 In the middle ages, and in the l Gth century, intoxication was severely punished in France.