169 MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE, AND EGGS. Germans8 made it also their principal food. In Greece and Italy, the shepherds decorated the vessels in -which they had just milked their flocks with crowns of flowers; and, in honour of the rural divinities, they scattered about a small quantity of this sweet liquid.9 The reapers offered it to Ceres;10 and in one of the sections of Rome, Mercury was presented with milk instead of wine. The ancients attributed to milk from cows, ewes, and goats, various Hygeian qualities.11 Hippocrates forbade it in cases of head-ache, fevers, and bilious attacks;12 but he sometimes ordered asses’ milk,13 which was considered as an excellent remedy, and a most wholesome aliment.14 The voluptuous people of Rome rubbed their faces and skins with bread soaked in asses’ milk, to make them fairer and prevent the heard from growing too fast. Suetonius15 and Martial10 speak of these refinements of luxurious delicacies. The satirical Juvenal informs us that bread was made into a kind of plaster or mask, with which they covered the face.17 Poppaeia, wife of Nero, was the first, or one of the first, to bring this recipe into fashion, being fully persuaded that she would thus preserve the white ness and delicacy of her skin. Five hundred asses used to suppdy daily the necessary quantity of milk to make the cosmetic and bath 18 of the coquettish empress. This high patronage did not prevent asses’ milk from losing by degrees—and very unjustly, no doubt—the reputation it acquired.19 Fashion—capricious and all-powerful deity—undertook to re-instate its virtues, after several centuries of profound forgetfulness. The success was complete. This is how the affair took place :— Francis I., finding himself weak and languishing, the physicians, after a long consultation on the monarch’s illness, advised remedies which did not cure the royal patient. However, the King of France was getting worse every day, and his state gave serious apprehensions. Some one mentioning to his Majesty that a Jew of Constantinople was noted as one of the cleverest doctors in the world, Francis imme- diately ordered his ambassador in Turkey to send him this Israelitish doctor, whatever might be the cost. The Jew arrived, and prescribed no other remedy than asses’ milk. The king found himself much better, and the courtiers and ladies of the court eagerly followed the same diet, even for the slightest imaginary indisposition. L