SEASONINGS. 274 honey from reeds.56 We clearly perceive that he means honey, manna, and sugar. Virgil thought that a gentle dew falls on the flowers, and became immediately the prey of bees, which deposited it in their cells.57 Pliny has adopted the same graceful error,58 and even Galen himself partakes of it.59 . . , The ancients caused honey to be served at the beginning o a ic past ;60 it was used in lieu of sugar in the preparation of preserves and some kinds of beverages, which will hereafter claim our attention. They preferred that of Attica,61 and insisted on its being thick, clear, granulated, transparent, fresh, and aromatic, with a somewhat sharp flavour.62 The faculty attributed to it great virtues.63 .. Honey served as a basis to the woneferful seasoning of Apic.us, which we present to the studious investigation of modern gastronomy: Put fifteen pounds of honey into a brass vessel, containing two pints o wine. Warm at a very gentle fire, stir, and when it rises, pour over more wine. Let the mixture rise three times, then take it from the file, and skim it the next day. Then add four ounces of three scruples of gum, a drachm of spikenard, a drachm of ^ drachms of dried dates, after softening them in wine; pour on the whole seasoning much in vogue two thousand years ^ago and in which honey was the principal ingredient It was composed by mixing two ounces of cummin seed, one ounce of gmger composed uy 8 one 0UDce 0f one ounce of green rue, and six sciup ’ honey were pepper, and twelve scruples rffine dates; nine ounces of honey the Some'times they contented themselves with macerating onm'nin^sced iD vinegar, which the, left to dry, and then pounded it, that done, was put into honey.6 WOnnWd and of an aro- r f ""m Ie“prgo,i,,ces of' Narbonue, the matic flavour. The hoi } tt v ;s next of kin to Gatinais, or Britanny, is the used in domestic sugar, having the same properties. It is >J of economy, and in medicine as a Diclio. EncycV remedies, either as a corrective, or an excipient.