WATER. 298 the saline substances from sea-water. Boyle, Leibnitz, the Count of Marsigli—all had made a greatnumber offmitless experiments. Mr. Pois- sonnier invented a very simple distillating machine, "with which, and an absorbing powder, he succeeded in depriving sea-water of its insuffer- able bitterness, and rendering it perfectly salubrious. About 1784, a successful experiment was made at York with a machine which produced the same result. Some travellers have related, that, at the Iron Island, tne onl} soft water was that which was collected from a large tree, in the centre of the island, and which was incessantly covered with clouds. The water ran continually from the leaves, and fell into two large cisterns, con- structed at the foot of the tree, which, according to Jackson, furnished enough for 8,000 souls, and 100,000 cattle. “ Let us see,” says Bory de Saint-Vincent, “ what amount of credit is due to the mavellous tree of the Iron Island.” Abreu Galindo, in his manuscript treatise on the Canary Islands, preserved in the archives of the country, says that he wished to see with his own eyes what the tree was. He embarked, arrived, took a guide to conduct him to a place called Tigulahe, which is separated from the sea by a valley, and there, at the extreme boundary, under a large cliff, was the holy tree, which in the country is called Garoe. Its trunk is twelve spans in circumference, four feet in diame- ter, and nearly forty feet in height. The branches are wide apart and tufted; its fruit resembles an acorn, and the kernel is, in colour and taste, like the little aromatic almonds which pine nuts contain. It never loses its leaves, that is to say, the old ones do not fall until the young ones are formed. On the north side, are two large stone pillars, of twenty square feet, hollowed out to a depth of twenty spans. These pillars are so placed that the water falls into one, and is preserved in the other. Vapours and mists rise almost every day from the sea, par- ticularly in the morning, and at no great distance in the offing, these vapours are carried by the east wind against the cliffs, which block their passage, so that they cover the tree, become condensed on its smooth leaves, and run off drop by drop. The more the east wind reigns, the more abundant is the supply of water. It is distributed by a man who guards the tree. A whirlwind tore up the Garoe in 1025.