33 MANIPULATION OF FLOUR. milk with the best whcaten flour; an exquisite combination, which pro- duces the celebrated bread of Cappadocia, served only on the tables of the wealthy.71 With the artoplites, a light bread, made with the best wheaten flour, and baked in a mould, it is the only kind of which refined persons can partake.72 If we were not afraid of tiring you, we could point out many other sorts of bread which abound in the Fomin Pistrinum, for there is some for all tastes and classes, from the artop- tic ii, baked in moulds,73 a most nutritious and digestive bread, down to the furfur ace us, a mass of indigestible bran that the wildest savages among the Scythians could not have swallowed with impunity. We should have spoken to you of the astrologicus bread, the paste of which is similar to that we use in our days to make fritters, commonly called batter. Also of the cacabaceus, which is indebted for its agreeable and spicy flavour to the water, which is previously boiled in a kind of bronzed stewpau; and the siligineus bread, made of the best flour. Its mani- pulation is difficult and tedious; no matter—the epicurean prefers it, when, by chance, he happens to he hungry.74 Neither ought we to forget the panis madidus, a species of paste made of milk and flour, with which the fashionable ladies and effeminate dandies covered their faces before going to bed, to preserve the freshness and beauty of their complexion.70 But this enumeration may appear to you idle and endless; let us, therefore, leave the market and assist at the distribution of bread civilis among the people, of which thirteen ounces is given to each person;76 we will then give a rapid glance at the various other cereals besides wheat, which, in some shape or other, are converted into food. The customs of the middle ages cannot be better illustrated than by adding the following curious notes : The Norman kings subjected the bakers to very severe laws with DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. VII. Bread.—No. 1. In Herculaneum there were found two entire loaves of the same dimension, being 13§ inches in diameter, and 3± inches thick. Each had eight divisions cut on the top, that is to say,—a cross was first marked, and between each, another division was made; some had stamps on U ° No. 2. At Pompeii, in a shop near the Pantheon, were discovered bronze moulds for pastry and bread. No. 3. The Cappadocia bread, made in a mould, found at Pompeii. No. 4. The mould for the above.