294 WATER. However strange such superstition may appear, it is, nevertheless, conceivable that Paganism, struck with wonder at the flux and reflux of the sea, and at the phenomena presented by several celebrated springs, and seduced by the charming fictions of doubtful poesy, should have deified an element both beneficial and terrible, since it could not cry out with the pi-ophet king: “ The Lord on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea than the mighty waves of the sea.”8 Thence came the innumerable number of tutelary gods to which the Ocean alone gave an asylum. By Thetis it became the father of the seventy-two Oceanides, and the fifty Nereides called it their grandfather. Hesiod numbered three thousand nymphs, and he probably forgot a few of them. We say nothing of the Naiades, the Napsete, the Limnades, and so many others whom fable was pleased to recognise, and whom it described as joyfully disporting in the water. Greece exhausted the treasures of its poetical imagination to embel- lish her fountains, beloved retreats of the timid Naiades. Several were remarkable for the beauty of their architecture and the extreme delicacy of their execution. Megara, in Achaia, possessed one celebrated for its magnificence. That of Pirene, at Corinth, was surrounded with white marble, in which were placed grottoes which unceasingly supplied a vast and superb basin. Another fountain of Corinth, named Lerna, offered to loungers an elegant portico, under which some very commodious seats allowed them to enjoy, during summer, the freshness which the water communicated to the atmosphere. In the sacred wood of iEsculapius, at Epidaurus, a splendid fountain was seen whose marvellous beauty attracted all eyes.9 Lastly, those of Messina, known under the names of Arsinoe and of Clepsydra, yielded nothing in richness of material and finish of details to the most renowned monuments of Greece. The, Athenians named four officers to keep watch and ward over the water.10 The other Greek towns followed the example. These officers had to keep the fountains in order and clean the reservoirs,11 so that the water might be preserved pure and limpid. The Romans at first contented themselves with water from the Tiber. King Ancus Martius12 was the first13 to build aqueducts, destined to convey the water of the fountain of Piconia from Tibur to Rome, a distance of about thirty-three thousand paces. Some have lionoure