T1IE COOK. 259 milk pottage, and ragouts, had a signal triumph at the wedding of Charles VI. of France. On that occasion a skilful cook covered the great black marble table of the royal palace35 with a hundred dishes prepared in a hundred different ways. The wood physicians did not proscribe the art of cooking ; several of their number even deigned to write treatises upon it. A certain monkish servant, moved by an indiscreet zeal, wished not only to mortify himself but all the Franciscans of the monastery. Con- sequently, he prepared the repasts in the worst manner he could. But the community held a chapter, and he was condemned to receive fifty lashes ; many of the monks wanted to enforce a more rigorous discipline by giving.a hundred.37 In the middle ages, the cook of a house of any note always seated himself in a high arm chair to give his orders; he held a long wooden •spoon in his hand, with which he tasted, without quitting his place, the various dishes that were cooking on the stoves and in the saucepans, and which served him also as a weapon with which to chastise the idle and gluttonous.38 THE KITCHEN. Let us enter together one of those vast kitchens, where two thousand years ago, the marvellous suppers of some rich senator were concocted. In every direction, slaves are coming loaded with meat, game, sea-fish, vegetables, fruit, and those expensive delicacies of which the dessert of the Romans was principally composed. The slaves have been over the principal, markets of the city, especially those of the Trigemina gate, DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XI. No. 1. Remains of a kitchen-stove in the house of Pansa, at Pompeii, much like those of the present day ; a knife, a strainer, and a kind of fryingpan with four cavities, probably intended to cook eggs. No. 2. Stock-pot, in bronze, to hang over the fire, if we may judge from the eye at the top of the handle. No. 3. A similar one of another shape, for boiling. No. 4. Ladles of various forms, for making libation from larger vessels. No. fi. A brazier; the thickness of the sides are hollow, and intended to contain water, and the four turrets, are provided with moveable lids, at the side is a cock to draw off the water. The centre of course was filled with lighted charcoal, and if a tripod, or trivet, were placed above it, many processes of cooking, such as boiling, stewing, or frying, might be performed.—“Pompeii."—“Lib. of Ent. Know."