c PANTROPHEON. gerated, some descriptions he will pronounce fabulous or impossible. Now, we have never failed to give our authorities, but we are far from being willing to add our personal guarantee ; so that we leave all those antique frauds—if any—to be placed to the account of the writers who have traitorously furnished them. We think, however, that most persons will peruse with some interest (and, let us hope, a little indulgence) these studies on an art which, like all arts invented by necessity or inspired by pleasure, has kept pace with the genius of nations, and became more refined and more perfect in proportion as they themselves became more polite. It appears that the luxury and enchantments of the table were first appreciated by the Assyrians and Persians, those voluptuous Asiatics, who, by reason of the enervating mildness of the climate, were powerless to resist sensual seductions. Greece—“beloved daughter of the gods”—speedily embellished the culinary art with all the exquisite delicacy of her poetic genius. “ The people of Athens,” says an amiable writer, whom we regret to quote from memory, “ took delight in exercising their creative power, in giving existence to new arts, in enlarging the aureola of civilisation. At their voice, the gods hastened to inhabit the antique oak; they disported in the fountains and the streams ; they dispersed themselves in gamesome groups on the tops of the mountains and in the shade of the valleys, while their songs and their balmy breath mingled with the harmonious whisperings of the gentle breeze.” What'cooks ! what a table ! what guests ! in that Eden of paganism— that land of intoxicating perfumes, of generous wines, and inexhaustible laughter! The Lacedtemonians alone, those cynics of Greece, threw a saddening shade over the delicious picture of present happiness undis- turbed by any thought of to-morrow. Let us not forget that an Athenian, not less witty than nice, and, moreover, a man of good company, has left us this profound aphorism . “ La viande la plus delicate est celle qui est le moms viande; lepoisson le plus exquis est celui qui est le moins poisson. Rome was long renowned for her austere frugality, and it is remaiked that, during more than five centuries, the art of making bread was there unknown, which says little for her civilisation and intelligence. Subse- quently, the conquest of Greece, the spoils of the subjugated world, the prodigious refinements of the Syracusans, gave to the conquered nations,