101 STONE Ell U IT. Moreover, everything was useful in this tree. The wood was employed for constructing buildings and for fuel; the leaves were used to make ropes, mats, and baskets, and the fruit seived as food for man and cattle.4’' From the dates a great quantity of honey was extracted, but very little inferior to ordinary honey;19 and those which were not consumed were sent abroad with so much the more ease that they keep well/0 According to Pliny, this fruit was in reputation in Greece and Rome ; and he names several excellent species which came from Judea, and principally from Jericho and the valleys of Arche]ais, Livias, and Phasaelis.51 Two Greek writers52 inform us that the favourite of Herod, Nicolas of Damascus, a poet, philosopher, and historian, much liked by Augustus, sent to the Roman Emperor every year a peculiar kind of date from Palestine; and that the monarch, who became very partial to them, gave them the name of his friend. Bread and cakes were also made with them. We shall often have occasion to remark that dates were frequently introduced in the composition of the most exquisite dishes of the Romans. Dates not quite ripe, if exposed to the sun, become in the first place soft, then pulpy, and lastly acquire a consistency similar to that of French plums; they can then be preserved, and sent to foreign markets. Riper dates are squeezed to draw out a sweet juice, very pleasant, and which is put, together with the other part, in large vessels, and kept in that state, or buried in the earth. These are the ones commonly used by the rich as food; the others are given up to the poorer class. Dates are eaten either with or without preparation, or mixed with different kinds of viands. Their syrup is used as a sauce to various dishes. They are also completely dried for exportation ; when reduced into flour, the caravans in the Desert employ them as food. By crushing them in soft water wine is made, which produces a strong spirit, very agreeable. The best dates are yellowish, semi-transparent, odoriferous, and sweet.