278 SEASONINGS. VINEGAR. The greater part of ancient nations were acquainted with the use of ■vinegar. Reapers in the east soaked their bread in it, to freshen it. The Greeks esteemed that of Cnide, of Sphette, of Cleone, and above all the vinegar of Egypt,80 which was reputed to be the best among the Romans, who tempered its acrimony by mixing with it some sweet substance.87 These masters of the world did not fancy they possessed all the comforts of life when they wanted vinegar ; therefore they always had a large provision of it in their cellars, as all their seasonings proved.88 This passion (for it certainly amounted to a passion) is easily ex- plained by the admirable qualities they attributed to the pungent liquid. It was believed to be astringent, digestive, antibilious. refreshing, and an antiscorbutic.89 Mixed with water, it was the drink of the soldiers,90 who, thanks to this beverage, braved the intemperance of the seasons and the different climates of Europe, Africa, and Asia. The Greeks and Romans esteemed highly their pickles: these con- sisted of flowers, herbs, roots, and vegetables, preserved in vinegar, and which kept a long time in cylindrical vases with wide months" They were prepared with the greatest care ; and these plants were often macerated in oil, brine, and vinegar, with winch they were impregnated drop by drop." Meat, also, out in very small pieces, was treated in the same “Tnegar of an exorbitant price was obtained from some precious wines, and that price was again increased by the proverbial cupi ity o some butlers in great houses. We doubt much however, whether any of those worthy personages ever made such a bill as a certain French seigneur dared to do under the reign of Louis X . 1 the Due de la Meilleraye, grand master of the art. ery o mi ^ presented to the minister a bill in which figured an article of 1,300,000 francs (£52,000), for vinegar to cool the cannons!the rather large, but La Meilleraye was a near relation of Kiclie , article passed without the least contestation.