301 BEVERAGES. praises of Odin amidst eternal banquets, where these exhilirating beve- rages might unceasingly maintain the joy and bravery of the warriors.18 The ancient Britons had many vines, but they esteemed them only as ornaments to their gardens; and they preferred, says Ctesar, the wine of grain to that of grapes.19 It is historically demonstrated that the English, at a very early epoch, applied themselves to the making of beer. It is mentioned in the laws of Ina, Chief, or King, of Wessex; and this liquor held a distinguished rank among those that appeared at a royal feast in the reign of Edward the Confessor.20 Under the Normans, ale acquired a reputation it has ever since maintained. Two gallons cost only one penny in the cities; in the country, four gallons might be obtained at the same price. Happy age ! happy ale drinkers! At that period—the golden age for the apostles of the Britannic Bacchus—the brewers rendered no account of the prepa- ration of this beloved beverage. The English nation did not yet pur- chase the right of intoxicating themselves: it was not till the year 1643 that this authorization was to be bought.21 The use of hops would appear to be of German invention. They were employed in the Low Countries at the beginning of the 14th cen- tury ; but it was not till the 16th that they were appreciated in England.22 Can it be true that beer or ale possessed, in certain cases, strange curative properties? We find the following fact in a statistical account of Scotland.23 A 23oor coal miner of the county of Clackmannan, named William Hunter, had been long suffering with acute rheumatism, or obstinate gout, which deprived him of the use of his limb3. The eve of the first Monday of the year 1758, some of his neighbours came to pass the evening with him. Ale was drunk, and they got merry. The jolly fel- low never failed to empty his glass at each round. Scotch ale is a se- ductive drink, and as 2>erfidious as jffeasure: it bewilders the senses, and finally masters the reason. William Hunter lost his, completely; but his legs were restored, and he was able to make marvellous use of them for more than twenty years. After that happy evening, never did his old enemy, the gout, dare approach him; and the worthy coal miner took care to keep it at a distance, by reiterating the remedy which had proved so beneficial. Nobody could blame him. Ale had become so dear to him ! Gratitude and prudence combined to make it a duty to remain unalterably attached, and he was faithful to it till he breathed his last.