408 MODERN BANQUETS. At the Coronation Banquet of George IV., in 1820, the old customs and privi- leges were ransacked to give eclat to that solemnity, one of the grandest, and perhaps, the most sumptuous that ever could he imagined in ancient or modern times. In France, in the year 1824, the coronation of Charles X. was celebrated at Rheims with royal magnificence ; the banquet excited the admiration of all present. At that solemnity the Duke of Northumberland was appointed Ambassador Extra- ordinary from England, and few, if any, ever equalled the liberality of his Grace, or the display he made of his wealth, to represent and honour his sovereign and country at tho court of Charles X. The fetes and banquets given by his Grace —and at which the author was present—were ot the most costly if not extravagant description, for we are told that the expenses of that munificent nobleman were not less than 41200,000. The grand banquets and receptions of King Louis Philippe during eighteen year3 exhibited too much liberality and splendour to be forgotten ; and at the marriage of his eldest son, the unfortunate Duke of Orleans, Versailles presented a scene of banqueting and rejoicing unparalleled since the time of Louis XIV. On her Majesty’s visit to the city of London a banquet was given in the Guild- hall, the grandeur of which was scarcely ever exceeded, showing the loyalty, de- votedness, and noble hospitality of the wealthiest commercial citizens in the world. In 1838, at the coronation of Queen Victoria, Buckingham Palace witnessed a most elegant, chaste, and splendid banquet. The Ambassadors Extraordinary, sent from ali the foreign courts, were not more conspicuous for the brilliancy ot their costumes than the native nobility who graced the festive-board of the youthful Queen of Great Britain. On this occasion a very elaborate and graceful fountain of massive gold of about three feet in height and two feet in diameter, was prominent on the royal table. It spouted four different sorts of delicious wine into as many shells, from which it dripped into four reservoirs, and was served to the guests by means of a golden ladle. This fountain can be seen, with the regalia, in the Tower of London. On that joyful day the members of the Reform Club intrusted to our care, at Gwyrdir House, a sumptuous entertainment for fifteen hundred persons, on a scale of liberality deserving of the highest praise. The marriage of Her Majesty with H. R. H. Prince Albert formed one ol those memorable epochs to be preserved in the annals of banqueting. The opening of the Royal Exchange, in 1846, was also one of those extraordi- nary days on record, where the Queen of a great nation gave proof of her sympathy in the prosperity of her merchant-princes, by presiding over a splendid entertain- ment to commemorate the re-establishment of that commercial edifice. On tho 3rd of July in tho same year, his Highness Ibrahim Pacha, sou ot Mehemet Ali, Viceroy of Egypt, was ontcrtaincd by tho members of the Reform Club to a magnificent and most sumptuous banquet provided for two hundre guests. Tho author, having full scope to do honour to tho invitation, provided the following liberal selection of gastronomic dishes, many of which were inno- vated for the occasion:—