TIIE COOK. a.) 2 “But,” say you, “Seneca, the philosopher, perpetually combats, , with the authority of his virtuous language, those dangerous men who are busied with a single stomach,3 and who lay the foundation for a tram of maladies.” The reply to this is, that Seneca, the pedant, should have thundered against the stomach, which alone is guilty (he has sometimes done so); that this atrabilarious preceptor of Nero, attacked with an incurable consumption, could only eat very little, which much enraged him ; and that his imprecations on the subject of the excessive riches and pro- digious luxury of the Romans of his age, neither hindered him from possessing, and unceasingly increasing, a more than royal fortune; nor from feeding—well or ill-several thousand slaves; nor from pompously displaying in his palace five hundred tables—only five hundred—of the most elaborate workmanship, of the rarest wood, all alike, and orna- mented with precious incrustations.4 How often have people extolled the Lacedemonians and their legis- lator, Ljcurgus. Well, Lycurgus mercilessly commanded poor little children to fast when they looked fresh and fat.1 Strange law-giver of a strange people, who never learned to eat, and yet who invented the cele- brated “ black sauce," the/as nigrum, for which the entrails of the hare served as the foundation. So true it is that cookery always pre- serves certain imprescriptible rights over the most fervent disc.ples of frugality. , . , , Moralists do not cease to repeat that Rome would never have had sumptuary laws had it not been corrupted by cooks from Athens anc Syracuse. This is an error. All the ordinances of the consuls pro- scribed profusion, excess-in a word, all the ruinous expenses of a passionate and ridiculous gastrophagy,* at the same time, respecting the magirie art itself; that is to say, that industrious chemistry wljich composes, decomposes, combines, and mixes-in a word, prepares different substances which gluttony, delicacy, the fashion, or luxury may confide to it for the space of a few#minutes. Why render the cook responsible for the extravagant tastes and follies of his age ? Is it for him to reform mankind ? Has he eithe, the means or .the right? , What is asked of him? and what can be asked? To understand exactly the properties of everything he employs, to per “ correct, if necessary, the savours on which he operates, °.iu