105 POULTRY. his own apotheosis during his life-time, through fear lest it might be refused after his death, ordered a sacrifice of peacocks, guinea hens, and turkeys to be made daily before his statue.103 It appears, however, that the breed of turkeys soon began to diminish in Europe; very few were reared, and that only as a curiosity: in the citadel of Athens, towards the year 540 of the Christian era;109 and in 1510, two were exhibited in Rome, which belonged to the Cardinal of Saint Clement.110 Jacques Cceur brought some meleagrides from India, in 1450 ; they were the first ever seen in France, and it was not till fifty- four years afterwards that Amerious Vespucius made them known to the Portuguese. In our days these ancient inhabitants of Asia or America111 have become naturalized among us, and let us hope that the day is yet distant when they will be absentees from our farm-yards and our tables. We admire them less perhaps than Charles IX. did when a turkey was served to him for the first time,112 but we shall always receive with cheerfulness the majestic dish upon which appears a well-fed turkey, truffled, and smoking hot. Turkey a VAfricaine.— Roast a turkey; bruise some pepper, alisander, and benzoin; mix it with wine and garum. Pour this season- ing on the turkey, sprinkle with pepper, and serve.113 The historian of Provence, Bouche, will have it that the French are indebted for the turkey to Ring Rene, who died in 1480. Other writers assure us that this volatile was introduced during the reign of Francis I. by Admiral Chabert. La-Bruyere-Champier speaks of it as a recent acquisition, and Beckmann refutes those who date its existence in France previous to the lGth century. He says that this bird, which was wild in the forests of America, became domesticated in Europe. It is also said that we owe the importation of it to the Jesuits. Ac- cording to Hurtaut, it was not until about the time of Charles IX. that turkeys appeared in France.114 It is asserted, adds this author, that at the wedding-dinner of that Prince the first turkey was served, and that it was admired as a very extraordinary thing. The English tasted this new dish in 1525, the fifteenth year of the reign of Henry VIII. To fatten turkeys—every morning, for a month, give them mashed potatoes, mixed with buck-wheat flour, Indian corn, barley, or beans; a paste is made of it which they are left to eat as they please. Every evening what remains must be taken away. One month after, you add to tins food, when they go to roost, half a dozen balls composed of