T1IE DINING-ROOM. 3G4 No. 6. A large-bellied cantharus—“ Herculaneum." perfumes, and whence flowers fell on the guests. In another of his dining-rooms admiration was excited by a magnificent dome, the rotary movement of which imitated, day and night, the course of the celestial bodies.6 These prodigies of ancient mechanism adorned the palace that the prodigal Gcesar called “ the gilded house.”7 The co- lossal statue of that prince rose in the middle of the hall: it was 120 feet high !8 Studious people, or those who wished to appear so, covered some part of the dining-room with books; for it was a custom introduced into Rome to have recitations or readings during the repast.9 Atticus had always a reader;10 and Juvenal promises the friend he invites to supper that he shall hear some fragments from Virgil and Homer.11 The Greeks yielded willingly to this intellectual pastime at the com- mencement of the banquet, whilst incense and other perfumes filled the room with a light vapour.12 Opposite the entrance-door stood a buffet, sometimes of iron, but more generally among the Greeks of sculptured wood, bronze, or silver, on which were represented the heads of oxen or satyrs.13 This piece of furniture was placed under the protection of Mercury, and a curtain commonly veiled the front of it. It served for the display of precious plate—vases of silver, silver-gilt, and gold, enriched with mag- nificent precious stones.14 The buffet of the Romans,—a sort of sideboard, of rare workman- ship,—was appropriated to the same use.lJ Sometimes a single foot supported a white marble table, surrounded with a border of vert- antique, and plates and dishes were arranged on two elegant shelves placed above.16 Again, the artist frequently conceived the idea of giving a whimsical form to the buffet, which enhanced its piice it was a ship laden with the vases necessary for the banquet; four enor- mous amphorae occupied the deck, on the two sides of the mast, towards the prow was a candelabrum, and at the stern was displayed a large bellied cantharus, or vase, with mobile handles ;17 the main-topmast DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XXVI. No. 1. A glass vase, with two handles. No. 2. A glass vase, with three handles. No. 3. Etruscan vase, with three handles, terra cotta. No. 4. A large silver vase, to hold wine and water; when plaoed on the tuhle.tie iq*» taken out with a simpulum, to All the drinking cups.