POULTRY. 166 barley flour, which they are made to swallow for eight days successively; at the end of that time turkeys, thus fed, become excessively fat, delicious, and weigh from twenty to twenty-five pounds. In Provence, walnuts are given to them whole, which they are com- pelled to swallow by slipping them one by one with the hand along the neck until they have all past the oesophagus; they begin with one walnut, and increase by degrees to forty. This kind of food gives an oily taste to the flesh. Turkey eggs are good boiled, and are preferred to those of hens for pastry ; mixing them with the common eggs makes an omelette more delicate. “ To obtain all the advantages possible from turkeys, they must be killed at the same time as pigs ; then cut the turkeys in quarters, and put them in earthen pots covered over with the fat of the pork, and by this means they may be eaten all the year round. 1 aumentier. THE PEACOCK. The peacock comes originally from India: it was there that Alexander the Great saw it for the first time. He was so struck with its magnificent plumage that he forbad all persons, under pain of death, to kill any.113 Oriental princes kept the peacocks which travellers brought them, from time to time, in their aviaries.116 It was thus117 that a certain king of Egypt received one, of which he thought Jupiter alone worthy; wherefore he sent it in great pomp to the temple of that god.118 These birds were thus known over various parts of the world. Samos, which seems to have been provided one of the first, ornamented its money with their image.119 Their reputation soon spread far and wide ;120 and Athenian speculators sent to that island for peacocks, which were shown to the curious once a month.121 This variety became afterwards an article of commerce, and a wealthy people became desirous to have them. A male and female cost £& sterling.122 But what was that, when delighted eyes could contem- plate the charming and lovely colours of the haughty favouiite of Juno. At Rome, the peacock had a prodigious success. ^ hen alive, t