75 KITCHEN GARDEN. Augustus informs us that this Emperor, being attacked with hypo- chondria, recovered only by the use of lettuces, recommended by Musa, his first physician;133 nothing, therefore, is wanting in praise of this useful plant—literally nothing, since the king of cooks, Coelius Apicius, judged it worthy of an honourable place in the immortal book lie has bequeathed to the amateurs of the Archeologico-culinary science of all ages and all countries. “ Take,” says he, “ the leaves of lettuces, let them be boiled with onions, in water wherein you have put some nitre; take them out, squeeze out the water, and cut them in small pieces ; mix well some pepper, alisander,133 parsley seed, dried mint, and onions; put this mixture to the lettuce, and add to the whole some gravy, oil. and wine.”134 Lettuces may also be eaten with a dressing of gravy and pickles.135 Our ancestors served salads with roasted meat, roasted poultry, &c. They had a great many which are now no longer in vogue. They ate leeks, cooked in the wood-ashes, and seasoned with salt and honey ; borage, mint, and parsley, with salt and oil; lettuce, fennel, mint, chervil, parsley, and elder-flowers mixed together. They also classed among their salads an agglomeration of feet, heads, cocks’ combs, and fowls’ m livers, cooked, and seasoned with parsley, mint, vinegar, pepper, and cinnamon. Nettles, and the twigs of rosemary, formed delicious salads for our forefathers; and to these they sometimes added pickled gherkins.136 ENDIVE. Pliny assures us that the juice of this plant, mixed with vinegar and oil of roses, is an excellent remedy for the head-ache:137 we leave to the proper judges a pharmaceutical mixture which does not belong to our province, and which we only quote en passant. Virgil thought endive bitter,138 but he did not speak ill of it. Columella recommended this salad to fastidious and satiated palates;139 this is praising it. The Egyptians appreciated its merits,140 which the Greeks had too much sense and good taste to disdain; and the Romans ate it prepared in the following manner :— F 2