KITCHEN GARDEN. Cl years to do without the assistance of physicians, whom they had expelled from their territories.16 This bold assertion deserved a little retaliation on the part of the faculty; so they deposed the cabbage from the rank occupied by it in medicine, and banished it to the kitchen. The Athenian ladies formerly partook of the general enthusiasm in favour of this wholesome vegetable, which was always served to them when a new-born infant required their maternal love and care.17 The ancients were acquainted with three principal kinds of cabbage • the silken-leaved, the curled, and the hard, round, white cabbage.18 Apicius does not busy himself with anyone of these varieties in par- ticular in the various preparations he points out, and which we submit to the appreciation of connoisseurs : 1st. Take only the most delicate and tender part of the cabbage, which boil, and then pour off the water; season it with cummin seed,19 salt, old wine, oil, pepper, alisander, mint, rue, coriander seed, gravy, and oil. 2nd. Prepare the cabbage in the manner just mentioned, and make a seasoning of coriander seed, onion, cummin seed, pepper, a small quan- tity of oil, and wine made of sun raisins.20 3rd. When you have boiled the cabbages in water, put them into a saucepan and stew them with gravy, oil, wine, cummin seed, pejDper, leeks, and green coriander.21 4th. Add to the preceding ingredients flour of almonds, and raisins dried in the sun.22 5th. Prepare them again in the above manner, and cook them with green olives.23 Who will question the service rendered to the culinary art by resus- citating these antique dishes, in which the cabbage admits of such a variety of combinations, and which we owe to the learning and expe. rience of a man of taste ? Whatever may be the opinion of our modern Trimalcions, we must not forget that this vegetable, prepared according to the recipe of Apicius, was the delight of the gourmets of Rome more than eighteen centuries ago. The Romans brought the red cabbage into Gaul, and the green cabbage also. White cabbages came from the north, and the art of making them headed was unknown in the time of Charlemagne.21 “ In some countries cauliflowers are dried, and the white headed cab- bages are preserved. The first, stripped of their leaves, are cut in slices,