280 SEASONINGS. Another kind was also much sought after by amateurs, probably on account of their scarcity. They were originally from Africa, and called cyrenaic, white outside, of an excellent perfume, and exquisite flavour.93 The Athenians, enlightened appreciators of ail sorts of merits, accepted with gratitude a ragout with truffles, invented by Cherips. That culinary genius did not long enjoy his glory; a premature death carried him off from his stoves, his honours, and his fortune; but the Greeks did not bury their gratitude in his tomb; his sons became citizens of Athens, and the name of their father, more fortunate than that of Christopher Columbus, clung for ever to his brilliant discovery.^0 The doctors of other days did not exactly agree upon the quality either good or bad of truffles. Philoxenes, whose opinion met with many partisans, would have it that a great quantity should be eaten cooked under the ashes, and deliciously impregnated with a succulent sauce.101 It was, however, recommended to choose them with the most particular attention, because some had the reputation of being as poisonous as mushrooms.102 The Romans were as fond of truffles as the Greeks, and that is not saying little.103 Apicius gives a method of preparing them which is as follows:— After they are boiled in water, put a little stick through them, and then place them for an instant before the fire; season them afterwards with oil, a little meat gravy, some skirrets, wine, pepper, and honey, in proper proportions. When the sauce is boiling, make a thickening, and serve 104 VC. • I 1 The illustrious epicurean prepared them also with pepper, ben- zoin, coriander and rue, to which he added a little honey, oil, and 105 The estimable Platina insists that, in the first place, truffles should be washed in wine, and afterwards cooked under the ashes ^ and that they be served hot, and sprinkled over with salt and pepper. This is the composition of a syrup of truffles, taken from the o Arabian medicine. We believe it to be very little known, and shou not be surprised if it were, some day, to obtain the renown it seems to deserve. It was composed of truffles, balm, and holy thistle, boded m water with sugar; and to each pound of the decoction was added one scruple of water distilled from honey, and half an ounce of some spint say, for example, spirits of wine—to each pound oi liquor. e w 1