POULTRY. 100 to the Homans: their noisy clamour had formerly saved the Capitol.00 They became for them, as for the Egyptians,01 a symbol of safety, and were reared, both in town and country, to guard the houses.1' Those which were kept, out of gratitude, in the Capitol, were conse- crated to Juno, Isis, Mars, and Priapus,03 and every year one of them was chosen for the brilliant and solemn ceremony we have already mentioned.64 But, alas ! time obscures and effaces all the glories of this world; and that of the Roman geese, no doubt, had to submit to this sad fate, for they were eaten at least a century before the time of Pliny. Unfortunate bird! Yes, a perfidious art fed them delicately in the shade, in conve- nient aviaries, where nothing was wanting for their comfort, and at the end of a few days the poor victims made but one step from this dangerous retreat to the place of execution.00 The Emperor Alexander Severus became so fond of this dish, that on his great festival days they served him with a goose and a pheasant.07 Nothing, in his estimation, could equal the exquisite flavour of these two biids. The luxurious Romans, however, neglected the entire animal, and thought only of the liver. They invented the art of fattening this viscera, and of increasing its size to such an extent that it often weighed two pounds. To obtain this result, they simply fed their victims of sensuality, during twenty days, with a paste of dried figs and water.08 As soon as the goose was killed, the liver was put to soak in milk and honey. It is not known exactly to whom we are to attribute this gastronomic discovery. Scipio, Metellus, and Marcus Sejus disputed the glory of the invention.09 At all events, it is certain that the same method was used in Greece as in Italy; that white geese were chosen in preference,0 and that the fat livers were served roasted, or fried in the frying-pan, and enveloped in the omentum, a membrane which we term the caul.71 Pliny assures us that Apicius found means to increase fivers to a monstrous size,72 which almost equalled in weight the whole body of the animal.73 The wings and neck of the goose also acquired some favour; the feet were added, when Messalinus had taught how to peel them by passing them rapidly over the fire, and then preparing them with cocks combs. The remainder was only good for the common people. ^ Stuffed goslings also enjoyed a reputation among the Greeks, w 10 fattened them by giving them, three times a day, during a month, a