412 MODERN BANQUETS. feasts which followed in succession during the last century, “ the age of powder and suppers.” But we cannot pass in silence the memorable punch given in 1746 by Sir Edward Russell, Commander- in-Cliief of the British forces, which can only bo assimilated in point of extravagance to the great banquet of the Earl of Warwick, the description of which was extracted from the “ Gastronomic Regenerator,” and reproduced in this work, page 3G2. Ihe bowl was the marble basin of a delightful garden, forming the central point of four vast avenues, bordered with orange and lemon trees. A magnificent collation was served on four immense tables, which occupied the whole length of the several avenues. The basin had been filled with four large barrels of brandy, eight barrels of filtered water, twenty-five thousand citrons, eighty pints of lemon juice, thirteen hundred weight of sugar, five pounds of nutmeg, three hundred biscuits, and a pipe ot Malaga wine. An awning over the basin protected it from rain, which might have disturbed the chemical combination of the delicious beverage ; and, in a charming little rose-wood boat, a cabin boy, belonging to the fleet, rowed about on the surface of the punch, ready to serve the joyous company, which numbered more than six thousand persons.* We cannot terminate this rapid sketch, without mentioning that, after several years of research in compiling this work, we completed our task on the day following that on which her Most Gracious Alajesty the Queen of England offered the largest royal banquet since her accession to the throne, to an assembly of kings, queens, and princes, and the flower of the British aristocracy, consisting of a hundred and twenty guests, on the occasion of the baptism of his Royal Highness Prince Leopold George Duncan Albert. This regal entertainment took place on the 28th of June, and never, perhaps, did the august sovereign display so much magnificence and majesty. We shall not publish the details of this imposing banquet; and, moreover, we should inform our readers of nothing new, were we to tell them of the artistical selection, execution, and perfection of the bill of fare,—of the richness of the ornaments and service,—of the royal and feminine gracefulness of the mother, wife, and queen. “ May Heaven grant,” say we, in the words of the immortal Bossuet, “ that the children of this illustrious princess, like a crown of olive saplings, may cling round her, and grow in virtue, strength, and renown ; may the Ruler of empires throw a halo round the destiny of the august mother, and show to all that His mighty hand upholds thrones and protects kings! ” * "While thus hastily enumerating some modem banquets, we cannot refrain mentioning that illusive feast of the most effeminate of Assyrian kings, the plan of which seems to have been imparted by the magirie genius himself to our celebrated tragedian Charles Kean. Every night, Surdanapalus, the sensual king of the too joyous Nin'evitcs, rising from his tomb, with his twenty-six centuries of renown, seats himself at table, in order to unveil to us long buried splendours, and confirm our belief in those sumptuous orgies of which history preserves to us but uncertain details. The admirable works of Botta, Flandin, Lay aid, and Bonomi.have allowed the ingenious major dorno who presides at these Assyrian feasts of the 19th century, to invest them with that couleur locale which would formerly have been sought in vain ; and, should the shade of the voluptuous prince wander amidst the guests seated at his table, it may still recognise the cup from which lie imbibed intoxication and forgetfulness of his tragic destiny. Altogether, this scenic representation appears to us the realisation of an extraordinary dream, and we have been tempted to pluce this fictitious repast of Surdanapalus amongst the modern banquets here called to remembrance.