THE KITCHEN. 264 The stags’ feet which terminate the handles, and the fillets with which they are ornamented, bear witness by their execution to the rare talent of the goldsmith. They are five inches and a half in length, and have only two prongs. Other servants dispose the earthenware pails, in which the wine is to be placed to cool,81 and prepare the drinking cups and crystal flagons.82 One of them replenishes with vinegar, salt, and pepper, little vases de- signated by the name of acetabulum, “ vinegar cruet.” 83 These are so many models of the most exquisite elegance, m bronze, silver, and, sometimes, gold. They are manufactured simply of earthenware, for the use of the middle classes of people. The knives, destined to serve at table, are of brilliant steel, and care- fully sharpened; they bear each on the handle some whimsical ornament, and seem to have served as models for those which were so much in fashion towards the beginning of the 17th century, and which were called Chinese knives.8j . „ , .e The most precious plate is arranged before the anna o ie gu on the abacus, or sideboard, which decorates the dining room. ns splendid piece of furniture, which will be noticed hereafter was intro- ■ duced into Rome 187 years B.c. It was also called the De p nc a • However, the Arclumagirus has drawn up a list o t e iepas , v' contains the bill of fare of the dishes, platform, was always presented to the guests. He descends iiorn t and goes to cast an inspiring glance on the work o eac ^ or l • Nothing escapes his learned investigation, from the peacocks eg^the first service, to the soft cheese commonly eaten at the thne. > he examines with minute attention the ovens, at which preside‘h slnd cooks of whose taients he is not certain, and who he ong «** class of erratic artists who are to be met with every day at the forum, DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XV. ere f 1 at Autun in France. Martial says expressly that spoo No 1. Roman silver spoon, found at Autun, used by the ancients to eat eggs and shell fisK is ralher singular, being too sms a ladle"to fa.ee wine or other liquids out of large vessels_ „ ,, ^ PI- »‘- No. 5. Fork mentionedin the text, and gtven as antique