15 AGRICULTURE. pointed teeth, crushed the ears: Varro calls this machine the “ Car- thaginian chariot.”43 Strabo asserts that the ancient Britons carried the coru into a large covered area, or barn, where they thrashed it; adding that, without this precaution, the rain and damp would have spoiled the grain.44 At all events, this kind of thrashing in barns, with flails and sticks, was not unknown to other countries; Pliny speaks of it,45 and Columella describes it;40 we may add that the Egyptians were also very probably acquainted with this method, since the Jews, who had sub- mitted to their power, employed it themselves.47 When the corn had been thrashed, winnowed, and put into baskets very similar to our own of the present day,48 they immediately studied the best means of pre- serving it: some preferred granaries exposed to a mild temperature, others had extensive edifices with thick brick walls without openings, except one hole only, in the roof, to admit light and air. The Spaniards, Africans, and Cappadocians, dug deep ditches, from which they excluded all moisture; they covered the bottom and lined the sides with straw, then put in the grain, and covered it up. The ancients were of opinion that corn in the ear could, by this means, be preserved a great number of years.49 If it is desirable to keep corn for any length of time, choose the finest and best grown. After having worked it, make a pile as high as the ceiling will permit. Cover with a layer of quicklime, powdered, of about three inches thick; then, with a watering-pot, moisten this lime, which forms a crust with the corn The outside seeds bud, and shoot forth a stalk, which perishes in winter. This corn is only to be touched when necessity requires it. At Sedan, a Avarehouse has been seen, heAved out of the rock and tolerably damp, in which there had been a consider- able pile of corn for the last hundred and ten years. It was covered with a ciust a foot thick, on which persons might walk without bending or breaking it in the slightest degree. Marshal Vauban proposed eating corn in soup, without being ground; it was boiled during two or three hours in water, and when the grains had burst, a little salt, butter, or milk, was added. This food is very nice, not unwholesome, and might be employed when flour is scarce, heated, or half-rotten.—Dutour. I he Chinese instituted a ceremony which had for its base to honour the profession of agriculture: every year, at the time of ploughing the