311 REPASTS. thanks to the peacock’s feather, which, doubtless, was cursed more than once by the unfortunate victims of his dreadful gluttony.10 True, this poor prince was continually tormented with a hunger that no aliment seemed capable of satisfying. In the sacrifices, like the Harpies of whom Virgil speaks,20 he took the half-roasted viands from the altars, and disputed the sacred cakes with the gods. As he passed through the streets he seized the smoking-hot food spread out before the shops and public-houses; he did not even disdain the disgusting scraps that a miserable plebeian had gnawed the evening before, and which a hunger-stricken slave would have hardly contested with him.21 Such were the masters of the world, the proud Caesars! before whom haughty Rome bowed the head and trembled, and from whom it basely implored a smile, up to that day when some soldiers, tired of their shameful obedience, kicked the imperial corpse into the Tiber, after having mutilated it in presence of the populace, who crowded joyously around the Gemoniae.22 These terrific examples of insatiable voracity have become rare and obscure. A few isolated facts may perhaps be met with at very distant periods, which remind us of the polyphagic celebrities of Greece and Italy. There are, however, two which would have merited the attention of Vitellius himself. The ingenuous Fuller23 speaks of a man, named Nicholas Wood, to whom the county of Kent proudly claims the honour of having given birth, who once eat a whole sheep at one meal. One day three dozen of pigeons were placed before him, of which he left only the bones. Another day, being at Lord Wootton’s, and having a good appetite, he devoured eighty-four rabbits and eighteen yards of black-pudding for his breakfast. We leave to Fuller the responsibility of the figures. Any how, the brave Nicholas Wood must have been a vigorous trencher-man ! The second ancedote is from Berchoux:— Marshal Villars had a house-porter who was an enormous eater. “ Franz,” said he, one day, “ tell me, now, how many loins you could eat? ’ “Ah! my lord, as for loins, not many: five or six at most.” “ And how many legs of mutton ? ” “ All! as for legs of mutton, not many : seven or eight perhaps.” “ And fatted pullets ? ” " Ah ! as for pullets, my lord, not many: not more than a dozen.” “And pigeons ? ” “ Ah ! as for pigeons, not many: perhaps forty—fifty at