370 THE TABLE. Saint Remi, Bishop of Rheims, left to his heirs a silver table, embellished with figures.84 Charlemagne had three made of the same metal—the first represented the ancient capital of the world; the second, Constan- tinople ; the third, every known region of the earth.35 Aymar, Viscount of Limoges, found on his estate a treasure, which consisted of a table, round which were seated an emperor, his wife, and several children—all as large as life, and of massive gold. Richard Coeur-de-Lion pretended that the treasure belonged to him as Lord of Limousin, and went to lay siege to the castle of Chalons, to which Aymar had retired, where the king received a wound, of which he died the 6th of April, 1190.36 Silver tables still existed in the 17th century. Madame de S6vign6 (1689), speaking of persons who, following the example of Louis XIV., sent their plate to the mint, says: “ Madame de Chaulnes has sent her table, two gueridons, and her beautiful toilet of silver gilt.” At some distance from the sigma, on a slightly raised platform, were three kinds of elegant credences for the cups, wines, and vases.37 The major-domo himself generally attended to this part of the service. A very curious old book, cited by Strutt, “ The Boohe of Ker- vynge,”38 contains the following instructions as to the manner of laying the cloth for the King of England :— “ Serve your Soverayne with wafers and ypocras. Also loke your composte be fayre and clene, and your ale fyve dayes olde before men drynke it, and be curtays of answere to eche persone; and whan ye laye the clothe, wype the borde clene with a cloute {cloth); then lay a couch {cloth), take your feluwe, that one ende, and holde you the other ende, then drawe the clothe straught, the bought on the utter edge, take the utter parte and hange it even, then take the thyrde clothe, and laye it bought on the inner edge, and laye estat with the upper parte halfe a fote brode, then cover thy cupborde and thyne ewery with the towel of dyaper; than take thy towell about thy necke, and laye that on syde of the towel upon thy lefte arme, and thereon laye your soveraynes napkyn, and on thyn arme seven loves of brede, with thre or foure trenchour loves, with the ende of the towel, in the lefte hande as the maner is; then take thy salte seller in thy lefte hande, and take the ende of the DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XXVII. No. I. Etruscan flat vast), of terra cotta, with a cover, to hold a particular drink (warm, perhaps). No 2. A marble vr.se, ornamented, for water. No. 3. A metal vase, to fill the cups of the guests. No. A. A Greek Etruscan drinking vase, of terra cotta, in form of a seated Bacchanal.—'“ Hcrcul.