FISII. 250 shield of Hercules an attentive fisherman, ready to throw his net over some fish pursued by a dolphin.270 The Egyptians also practised this occupation ; of which the following anecdote is a proof:— Antony being in Egypt, the beauteous Cleopatra sought to amuse him by inventing for his entertainment each day new kinds of pleasuie , but the Roman general, seized with a violent love of fishing, fled fiom the society of his numerous courtiers, and, alone on the borders of the sea, or an isolated lake, vainly waiting for the smallest gudgeon, he for- got long hours of vain expectancy and useless patience. The queen undertook his cure. She commanded a diver to plunge into the water, and there a hook a fish to the line of Antony. He, seeing it agitated, joyfully withdrew it from the water, and unhooked a salted sardine. Cleopatra then exclaimed: “ Leave to Egyptians the task ot fishing, Romans should take only kings, cities, and empeiois. The inhabitants of Italy fished exactly in the same manner we do at this day ;278 but Roman luxury, always greedy of extravagant profusion, invented those celebrated fish ponds which cost immense sums, both to build and maintain ; 279 and to which Lucullus, Hortensius, and Phi- lippus, whom Cicero surnamed the “ Tritons of fish pools, conse- crated almost entirely their anxiety and fortunes. This folly was carried to such a height that fish ponds were constructed on the roofs of houses.281 More reasonable persons con- tented themselves with bringing river-water into their dining-rooms. The fish swam under the table, and it was only necessary to stoop and pick them out the instant before eating them. These expensive habits could only suit the most opulent and least numerous class of Romans. The honest citizen modestly piovided himself at the fish-market, and the part not eaten by him the first day was submitted to a very simple process, which assured its preser- vation. For this, it was only necessary to cover it with boiling vinegar as soon as it had been fried.'81 » Fish was also well preserved by surrounding it with snow, and placing it at the bottom of an ice-house.