kisii. 2:10 Athens.208 At Rome, it was served fried, at the beginning of supper ;209 and it disposed the guests to attack boldly the culinary corps tie reserve, which took up the position as soon as the skirmish with the gudgeon was over. “ This fish is in abundance, principally in France and Germany; it is very good, and easily digested. They are served either fried or stewed ; when done as last-mentioned, they must be drawn and wiped dry, put in a flat stewpan with butter, salt, pepper, good red wine, spring onions, mushrooms, shalots, thyme, bay leaves and basil these last plants chopped very fine; stew the whole a quarter of an hour, and serve.”—Bose. HERRING. Herrings were unknown in Greece and Rome. Bose says it is a manna that nature doubtless reserved for the northern nations, which they, however, have only turned to account in modern times. The first herring fishery known in Europe was on the coast of Scot- land ; but that nation knew not how to profit by the treasure that the sea offered them. All the Scotch historians mention this fishery, the produce of which was bought by the Dutch. This transaction took place under the reign of King Alfred, about the year 830. After some time the Scotch quarrelled with the Dutch, who under- took the herring fishery themselves. As they caught a great many more than they could consume, they salted them, and sold them in foreign countries. Such was the origin of that immense commerce, which had its rise, according to Eidous, about the year 1320, a short time after the Teutons had established themselves in the Baltic. It is said that we owe the art of salting and barreling herrings to a Dutch fisherman, named William Beuckels, who died in 1449. The Dutch nation raised a mausoleum to his memory; and it is asserted that Charles V., who visited it in 153G, eat a herring upon it to render homage to the author of a precious discovery. In the year 1610, Sir Walter Raleigh gave a statistical account of the commerce carried on by the Dutch in Russia, Germany, Flanders, and France, with the herrings caught on the coasts of England, Scotland, I *