FEATHERED GAME. 198 Rome inherited this gastronomic rage. One of Varro’s aunts reared thrushes in the country, and sold 00,000 of them every year, to the numerous epicures of the metropolis of the world. She derived an immense revenue from this speculation.47 Magnificent aviaries were soon seen in all rich Roman villas; they were filled with thrushes> and the multitude of these birds became such that they furnished a plentiful manure for the land.48 They were fed on crushed figs, mixed with wheaten flour; they had also millet, and great care was taken to preserve in the aviary a current of fresh and pure water to slake their thirst.49 On days of triumph and rejoicing, a dozen of these tempting thrushes cost no less than twenty-seven shillings.50 On those solemn occasions more than one generous citizen, con- sulting his prodigality more than his purse, ruined himself51 for love of his guests. More than one obsequious dependant spent his last sesterces in composing ingenious crowns of thrushes/' which his haughty patrons deigned to receive as a homage. It is true he was sometimes allowed to become a spectator of the repast which his gift was to embellish53—certainly a most flattering recompense for his gratitude and servility! DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No, IX. Varro’s Magnificent Aviart.—Adjoining his villa was a part of the house called the Ornithon, or the Aviary, of which some ruins are still remaining, between the two small rivers Vinius and Casinus, but can hardly be made out. More, perhaps, was in existence when the famous architect and antiquarian, Pierre Ligorio, drew the plan and profile more than 200 years ago. This drawing of Plate IX. is con- formable with Varro’s own description, who says that: “ At the entrance there are two porticoes, or two large cages (in the Plate these are omitted for want of space); they are buildings with colonnades all round, on the top and sides there are nettings spread to prevent the escape of the birds. The entrance to the yards is between the two pavilions; two basins, long and wide, are alongside of the court-yard on the right and left of it; from them you pass to the grand double colonnade, the first circumference of which is of stone, and the second of pine ; the distance from each other is five feet, and the whole of this middle space is filled with birds, which arc prevented from escaping by small fillets all over the top and sides. There are, between the columns, like a small theatre, rails, like steps, put forward for the birds to perch upon. There are birds of various species, particularly singing birds, such as nightingales and blackbirds ; a small canal supplies them with fresh water, and they are fed from under the netting. Facing the pedestals of the columns is a stone, raised one foot nine inches above the quay, and that is elevated two feet above the level of the water ; its width is five feet, to enable the visitor to walk round. At the lower part of the quay, on the water-side, there are holes practised where the ducks can retire. In the centre of the large basin, about 200 feet in diameter, is a small island, bordered by a small colonnade, under which Varro treats his friends ; in the middle, a round table, which a servant turns on a pivot, so that in succession the guests are supplied with dishes, plates, cups, and goblets. There is seen also an homi- sphcrc, where the star Lucifer turns in the day, and Hesperus at night; both mark the hour, and are variable ; on the same hemisphere the winds, to the number of eight, are marked with a hand that is always moving as the wind changes, the same as the clock of Cyprestus, at Athens The drawing of this Aviary is beautiful. It appears that Pierre Ligonofollowed I arro s description, ut all events, the drawing of this Plate perfectly agrees with it.