FEATHERED GAME. 10!) Heliogabalus eat only the brains of these birds. Ibis dish appeared to him most excellent, for it was very costly. The extreme delicacy of this volatile, which poetical connoisseurs have celebrated in their verses,55 recommends it to those with weak stomachs and to convalescents. Pompey being ill, his physician ordered him a thrush, but it was impossible to find one in Rome. Some one advised the celebrated general to apply to Lucullus, who fattened them throughout the year. “What,” cried Pompey, ill- humouredly, “shall I have to thank Lucullus’s pompous luxury for life!” He refused to eat the thrush, and he recovered.56 TIIE BLACKBIRD. What has been already said of the thrush precludes the necessity of writing much on the blackbird, for both these hinds of birds were equally dear to the gastronomists of Greece and Italy.57 They were fattened in the same manner,58 served on the same tables. The blackbird, in fact, like the thrush, re-established the strength and health of the rich.59 The poor were compelled to have recourse to less expensive remedies. “ The flesh of the blackbird, so delicate in the time of gathering grapes, acquires at that period a savour which makes it as precious as the quail, but becomes bitter when they feed on the juniper berries, the ivy, or other similar fruits. Some medicinal properties are attributed to it; the oil in which the blackbirds have been cooked is recommended to persons afflicted with sciatica: and the soil of these birds, dissolved in vinegar, is, we are informed, a certain specific for removing the freckles of the face or spots on the skin.”—Vieillot. In 1468, Louis XI. ordered one of his authorised ruffians, named Perdriel, to seize all the tame blackbirds he could find in Paris. These poor birds were sent to Amboise, where a register was kept of what they said or sung. It appears that the king intended to punish those citizens of his capital who taught these innocent volatiles to repeat abuse of the sovereign, after which he would have wrung the necks of the too in- telligent birds. Louis XI. could not carry out this singular idea, because he himself was shortly after the Duke of Burgundy’s prisoner at Peronne. Blackbirds and citizens had a narrow escape.00