SEASONINGS. 283 careless of the morrow, preferred the field mushroom,115 which they de- voured with delight, having previously covered it over with a pungent sauce, which they afterwards neutralized with various iced beverages.118 It is true that this dish, worthy of the gods, often inflicted a severe pe- nalty on those who yielded to its irresistible seduction ; but what mortal could think of the anguish of an uncertain poisoning, when he had the good luck to meet with some boleti, or mushrooms, of the rarest descrip- tion, which the price of a beautiful toga would hardly have purchased,117 and which promised some mouthfuls of ineffable, although ephemeral enjoyment? Besides, does not pleasure possess more piquant charms when danger is attached to it ? The greater part of m ushrooms are very dangerous, say the ancients ;118 hut blind destiny, perhaps, reserves for us certain kinds which are not so. Be-assured by this judicious reflection, they gave orders to their cooks to stew some,119 and season them with vi- negar, oxymel, and honey.129 However, reasonable people—and there were still some to be found —abstained entirely from this vegetable, or procured it by the method which Nicander recommends; that is to say, they frequently watered the trunk of a fig tree after manure had been placed around it. That phi- losopher assures us that by these means we may grow mushrooms per- fectly wholesome.120 Those of our readers who are in possession of fig trees will be able to give their opinion on the merit of Nicander's method. To obtain the seeds of most mushrooms, it only requires to ex- pose them, when fresh, upon glass ; the superficies of the glass is soon covered with it. It is also obtained by shaking in the water the mush- rooms which are sufficiently developed. This water, thus impregnated, is used to water the beds, which become thereby more productive. The natural supply of mushrooms from the fields not being thought sufficient, the art of raising them on beds during the whole year was therefore indispensable, and required a mixture of crottin de clieval, rotten dung, and mould, which is deposited in layers of one foot and a- half in thickness and width Seeds of mushrooms are sown on these beds—that is to say, some of the mould of a former bog impregnated ■with it. It is then covered over with all the dung not consumed, and then copiously watered. “ At the end of a very few days, the beds begin to produce mush- rooms, and keep on producing until the winter.”—Bose. s 2