33ii WINE. LIQUEUR WINE. It must bo owned that the Roman law was, for a long time, tyran- nical in the extreme with regard to women. Totally interdict the use of wine! Kill the unfortunate creatures who were unable to resist the seductions of that dangerous liquor ! For the Roman history furnishes us with more than one example of that atrocious chastisement inflicted on the guilty thirst of the fair sex. The barbarous Micennius immolated his wife on the butt, at which he caught her one day, quenching her thirst at the tap or the bunghole. The ferocious Romulus thought this act simple and natural: he did not even reprimand the cruel husband.137 Another unfortunate creature discovered the place where her husband kept the keys of the cellar. She took them, and had the imprudent curiosity to go and visit the mysterious and inauspicious treasure, to which she was forbidden all access. Her family perceived this innocent larceny, and refused her every kind of food, to punish her for an ima- ginary crime. She died in the tortures of hunger. Is it necessai’y to speak of C. Domitius, that uncourteous judge, who deprived a lady of her marriage portion because she had taken the liberty to drink a spoonful or two of wine unknown to her lord and master ?139 But, let us say it at once—Roman civilisation put an end to such strange manners; and so early as the age of Augustus, Livia, the consort of that emperor, affirmed, when eighty-two years old, that she was indebted to Bacchus for her long existence.140 Let us remark, by the way, that the great prince, her husband, honoured the labours of the vine-dresser and the serious study of wines,141 to which little attention had been paid down to his time. It began then to be understood that this grateful drink draws the ties of friendship closer,112 and all honest people, all generous souls, were eager to taste it. The good Trajan quaffed off numberless cups every day: of course he became the idol of the human species.'" Agricola wished to drink before be died.144 The imbecile Claudius often found some ray o wisdom at the bottom of an amphora.145 Domitian merited the pardon