THE GUESTS. 332 by the rational portion of every order of citizens, who could not witness without a shudder the whole of Italy plunge into the most brutifying excesses, after obscene orgies which we dare not describe.15 But who could dissipate that fearful bewilderment with which nations seem to be seized when they arc about to fall ? Rome blushed for her ancient virtues, and veiled them with dissolution and crimes. She had exhausted all the prodigies that the genius of debauchery could invent —she created monsters ! Ruinous banquets soon revived, and the number of guests had no other rule than the unbridled desire of ostentation and expense. Let us not forget those miserable parasites who managed to get to the corner of a table in Greece and Italy, and to whom meagre portions were conceded as a reward for cringing servility, such as the vilest slave would have been ashamed to exhibit. There were three kinds of para- sites. Some, under the name of buffoons, amused the company with their grotesque attitudes and ridiculous sayings.10 Others allowed their ears to be boxed, and suffered a thousand different torments, provided a piece of meat or a bone were afterwards thrown to them. These patient sufferers17 diverted the Greeks and Romans very much. The adulatory parasites were the most skilful of these hungry parias. They were well treated and almost respected. They were persons who possessed a kind of merit which was always equally appreciated, and to which we still render justice—they flattered whosoever gave them a supper.18 An energetic, familiar expression in French often replaces the word 'parasite, transmitted to us by the Greeks and Romans: that expression, which conveys the same idea, is pique-assiette, an image necessarily asso- ciated with disdain and insult. The Count de Gerval had invited to his table several persons of high distinction, among whom was remarked one of those intruders who find means to get themselves received, notwithstanding the profound contempt they inspire. The dessert was just served, and a magnificent pear attracted the attention of the parasite, who endeavoured to bear it off on the point of his knife, but, in so doing, he broke a valuable plate. “ The deuce take it, sir,” said the master of the house ; “ piquez lassiette as long as you like, but don’t break it!” The guests always washed their hands, and frequently their feet, before they plnced themselves on the triclinium.* 19 They received that • See Piute XXVIII., p. 378, for the triclinium.