KITCHEN GARDEN. 65 anti of very beautiful growth, being no less than twelve feet high ! It is needless to add that the Libyan vendors rarely sold them in bundles. But these veridical travellers, on quitting the plain to ascend the moun- tains, found something still more wonderful; the land there seemed to suit these plants still better, for they acquired the height of twenty cubits.47 After this, what shall we say of our European asparagus, so shrivelled and diminutive in comparison with that of Getulia ? The Greeks, not having any better, contented themselves with the ordinary sort, such as we have at the present day. They considered it very useful in the treatment of internal diseases.48 Diphilus, who was very fond of it, regrets that this vegetable should be so hurtful to the sight :40 is it because we eat asparagus that spectacles have become ne- cessary at nearly all periods of life ? » The Romans cultivated this plant with extreme care,50 and obtained the most extraordinary results. At Ravenna, they raised asparagus each stem of which weighed three pounds.51 Then, as in our days, they were allowed but a short time to boil; hence the favourite expression of Augustus, who, to intimate his wish that any affair might be concluded without delay, was accustomed to say: “ Let that be done quicker than you would cook asparagus.”52 The cooks of Rome had a method which appears to have been sub- sequently too much neglected; they chose the finest heads of asparagus, and dried them. When wanted for the table, they put them into hot water, and then boiled them a few minutes/3 Thanks to this simple process the plant swelled considerably, and passed as being very tender and fine flavoured. The Apicii, Luculli, and other connoisseurs of renown, had this vegetable brought from the environs of Nesis, a city of Campania.54 It is asserted that Asia is its native soil, and that it was originally brought to us from that part of the world. Nevertheless, wild asparagus grows naturally in certain sandy soils, as, for instance, in the islands of the Rhone and the Loire.55 “ When it is found impossible to eat all the asparagus you have cut, and which has arrived at a convenient maturity, place them by the thick ends in a vessel containing about two inches of water; or else, bury them half-way up in fresh sand. By means of these precautions asparagus may be preserved several days.”—Parmentier.