2(51 T1IE KITCHEN. immense iron grate,52 carefully supplied with wood,53 which an unhappy slave unceasingly blows with his breath into a (lame, throws aiound its lurid glare. The Lares, grotesque figures, roughly carved in stone, pro- tect this spot. A cock is sacrificed to them in the month of December.55 Some learned men have supposed that the Greeks and Romans had no chimneys; it is, however, easy to prove the contrary. Pliilocleo, a character in the comedy of the “ Wasps" of Aristophanes, hides himself in a chimney. A slave who hears him, cries out, “ What a noise there is in the pipe of this chimney!” Pliilocleo, being discovered, exclaims, “ I am the smoke, and I am trying to escape.”jG Appian, speaking of the proscriptions of the triumvirs, relates that several citizens fled into the pipes of the chimneys.57 These two examples will preclude the necessity of more ample citations. A vast cauldron of brass from Argos,58 or Dodona,53 placed on a tripod above the fireplace, furnishes the hot water required for the service of the kitchen. The frying-pan, beside it, serves in the cooking of certain delicate cakes or fish.u0 The magiric laboratory, to which the reader is invited, is very nicely decorated with a profusion of utensils similar in every respect to our own in point of shape—such as gridirons, cullenders, dripping-pans, and tart dishes. These objects are of tolerably thick bronze, plated with fine silver.61 Charming shells of the same metal serve to mould the pastry,62 which is afterwards disposed with order on the shelves of a country oven,63 or in the upper part of the authepsa,—a kind of saucepan of Corinthian brass, of considerable value, and made with such art that its contents cook instantly and almost without fire.64 This simple and ingenious vessel possesses a double-bottom; the uppermost one holds DESCItIFTION OF PLATE No. XII. From the ancients very little is left us of their kitchen utensils; however, the vessels and instruments which they used must have been in great variety; they had boilers called by the names of caldarium, cacabus, corlina, adhenum; chaldron, lebes; stewpan, sarlago; saucepan, pullarium; the cullender, with small holes perforated, Pliny calls colum, and more modern writers verna; spoons, in Latin, cochlear or cochleare; forks and hooks, to draw the meat out of the stockpots, they named creagra and fvtcina ; the dishes were called lances, disci, patina, patella, or catini; and distinguished from plates by the size, and sometimes the shape. No. 1. Stockpot, with a large ladle and cullender attached, with small holes ; appeared on the column of Trajan, together with the stewpan of Silenus. No. 2. Broken stewpan, in bronze. No. 8. Smaller one. These three articles of kitchen utensils are from the cabinet of M. l'Ahhe harlet. “ Anliqviles de Montfaucon."