346 REPASTS. The table at which the Anglo-Saxons took their repasts, was covered with a very clean cloth. Each one received a horn cup, which contained some kind of pottage, or ale—the beverage for which they had a predi- lection.75 The plates with which Strutt has enriched his work give a satisfactory idea of the culinary intelligence of the nation. They had spits, knives, plates, and dishes in abundance. England was marching with giant strides towards civilization.70 The Anglo-Saxons were particularly fond of boiled meat. They cut up the animal they intended to cook, put the pieces into a cauldron, supported by a tripod, and then lighted a fire on the ground. They stirred their ragout incessantly with a long two-pronged fork, which also served them to take out the meat when it was done.77 All the deplorable excesses of the Romans ought not to divert us from the fact, that religion and sound policy seem to have consecrated repasts in common, as one of the means best calculated to unite men more closely in the bonds of concord and friendship.78 The Scriptures furnish us with the first examples. Among the Israelites, the banquets which followed the sacrifices always took place in an assembly of rela- tions, neighbours, or friends.79 They eat together and in public on wedding days and solemn festivals.80 The first Christians promptly adopted this custom: their love feasts— their agaptB-were served in the church, after the Communion. The rich contributed to them abundantly; the poor according to their means; and the indigent who presented themselves with nothing in their hands, were received and treated as brethren.81 Admirable association of penury and opulence, which will never be replaced by the crude Utopias of modern philanthropy! As an act of justice to Pagan legislators, we are compelled to say that sometimes they had excellent views, which go far to extenua many of their aberrations. The laws of Minos prescribed to the Cretans the annual levy of an impost, the half of which was to be consecrated to the nourishment of the people. No one could eat alone, a certain number of families met together to take their repasts in common. - At Lacedaemon, each one brought his share of the provisions necessary for the supper of the whole;83 or he sent at the commencement of the month to the steward of the common halls, wine, cheese, figs^a measure of flour, and a small sum of money to defray other expenses, ship, sobriety, and concord presided, without exception, at these meetings.