GRINDING OF CORN. 28 In the midst of the conflicting opinions of the -writers of antiquity, what appears most probable is, that watermills were invented in Asia Minor, and that they were not really used in Rome till the reign of Honorius and Arcadius. Under the rule of the Emperor Justinian, when the Goths besieged the Roman city,39 the celebrated Belisarius thought of constructing some on the Tiber. The means which he employed were simple and inge- nious. Two boats firmly fixed, at two feet distance from each other, caused the stream to give a rapid motion to the hydraulic wheel, sus- pended by its axle between these lateral points of support; and this wheel turned the mills.40 This system differed hut little from that of Vitruvius, which he described more than five centuries before, and is explained in a few words. A little wheel, fixed to the axle of the hydraulic wheel, turned a third wheel, adhering to the axle of the upper grindstone, and the corn fell between the two stones in passing from the hopper placed above.41 These grindstones were made of a kind of porous lava, which retained its roughness, or rather, its roughness was renewed, by the con- tinual friction.42 The introduction of watermills, however, did not prevent the use of those worked by hand, which habit, cheapness, and facility of removal recommended: these antique mills of the Hebrews, the Egyptians, and the Greeks of the heroic times, were only five feet high. Each family was supplied with as many as they might require. In the residence of Ulysses, that great king 'of little Ithaca, there were as many as twelve. Women turned the mills, and were obliged to deliver a certain quantity of flour before leaving the task imposed on them. Corn was at first ground in a portative hand mill; by the Britons, women and young girls were employed in this kind of labour. It is, however, probable that watermills were known at a very early period in England. Strutt cites a passage from a charter by Ulfere, in 664, which warrants the supposition.45 It would be difficult to point out the precise date of the first em- ployment of mills; nevertheless, Somner informs us, in his “ Antiquities of Canterbury,”46 that the Anglo-Normans of that place ground their corn. “ There was,” says he, “ sometime a windmill standing neare the nonnery without Ridingate, which the hospitall held by the grant of the nonnes there: the conditions mutually agreed upon, at the time of