350 VARIETY OF REPASTS. The conquest of Asia was fatal to the Romans. Their savage rude- ness yielded to the effeminate manners of the vanquished; and hence- forth, the epicureans of Italy studied but one thing—gastronomic delectation; had but one worship—that of the goddess Victua,10 pro- tectress of food, and sovereign of the table. Luxury made appalling progress. Nearly a century b.c., the Romans did not blush to give 50 denarii (£l 16s.) for a young fatted peacock; 3 denarii at least (more than 2s.) for a thrush ;17 and, a century later, 4,000 sesterces (T36) were given for a couple of fine young pigeons.18 Worse followed! Seneca describes in few words the luxury of the table among the voluptuous Romans :—“ Behold,” says he, “Nomentanus and Apicius, those happy conquerors of all that is delectable on earth or in the sea. Behold them at table, stretched on their couches, and contemplating innumerable viands. Harmonious songs flatter their ears, a variety of pleasing objects occupy their eyes, and the most exquisite savours cap- tivate their insatiable palates.”19 The genius of gluttony multiplied the banquets by prescribing luxurious gastronomic assemblages, sometimes in honour of the gods, and often for the gratification of simple mortals themselves. Each year, at the ides of November, a repast was offered to Jupiter in the Capitol (coena Capitolina). The statue of the god was present at the banquet, reclining on a magnificent couch, with Juno and Minerva seated on either side. These divinities were splendidly served, and, as they touched nothing, in the middle of the night the seven epulary priests joyously eat the supper of the three immortals.20 The cereal banquet (coena Cerealis) was equally splendid, and Ceres maintained the same frugality.21 A sterile reminiscence of the equality which reigned among men in the golden age, placed the slaves at table by the side of their masters, during the celebration of the Saturnalia (coena Saturnalis).23 This usage was common to the Greeks and Romans.23 The ninth day of the August calends, and the thirteenth day of the November calends, a gastronomic solemnity—a monstrous gala—brought together the Roman pontiffs to celebrate the day of their inauguration (coena pontificalis). This banquet was worthy of the proverbial deli- cacy of those sacred stomachs.24