J 30 ANIMAL FOOD. his own price. This was called ■micare.50 The miration was suppressed in the year 300, by a decree, of Apronianus, which is worth quoting, because it points out in a clear and precise manner the attributions of the Roman butcher, and the system of sale since followed :— “ Reason and experience have proved to us, that it is of public utility to suppress the practice of mication for the sale of cattle, and that it is more advisable to sell by weight than to trust to a game with the fingers. We, therefore, ordain that, after the weight of the animal is ascertained, the head, feet, and tallow, shall belong to the butcher who has killed, prepared, and cut it up : this shall be his wages. The skin, flesh, and entrails, shall belong to the master-butcher who is to retail it. In this manner, the buyer and seller will know the weight of the meat on sale, and each will find this method to his advantage. * * * We will and decree that this ordinance be executed for ever, under pain of death.’ ’7 There were at first, in Rome, two corporations or colleges of butchers : one had to take care that the city was always sufficiently supplied with oxen, calves, and sheep :58 the other was to provide that immense capital with the quantity of hogs necessary ;59 and it would be difficult to form an idea of the number consumed by the Romans. Every day a distribution was made to the people, by Valentinian’s order, of 24,086 pounds and eight ounces of pork; to this amount, already considerable, must be added the truly prodigious daily sale; for the entire population, from the highest to the lowest, were all passionately fond of this kind of food.60 The obligations and privileges of these two corporate bodies were nearly the same as those of the bakers.01 The children could not, under any pretext whatsoever, abandon the trade of their fathers, without DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. VIII. Scales and Weights.—The ancients had several species of scales. No. 1. A common scale, with two basins, and a movable weight, which is made in die form of a head, covered with the pileus, because Mercury had the weights and measures under his superintendence. This ornamented scale is engraved on a stone in the gallery of Florence. No. 2. The Roman scale, beautifully made, with one tray, several hooks, and the movable weight, in the shape of a shell. No. 3. Common heavy weight. No. 4. The Roman weights had the form of a sphere, partly cut above and below; the greates number of those which still subsist are of basalt. The number of ounces, or of pounds, is common y engraved on the top, or inlaid with silver. All round it are inscriptions with the name of the temp e where they were preserved after they had been stamped, together with the name ol the prince, or t e prtefect before whom the standard mark was made. f On No. 4, is “ D. N. Honori. Aug. Domini nostri Honorii Augustiand on No. 5, “ Temp. Opis. Aug.,” or the temple of Opis Augusta.