402 MODERN BANQUETS. It is known that even aftor the introduction of vulgar idioms, the learned of the middle ages continued the use of Latin, and that in the 15th century that beautiful language, purified from barbarian corruptions, became once more classic, particularly in Italy. At that epoch, an obscure inhabitant of Mentz, John Guttenberg, immor- talised himself by the discovery of printing, just as the love of antiquity was causing the old literary masterpieces to be sought out, and creating a demand for copies of the manuscripts. Then, as if they had risen from their tombs after a thousand years of forget- fulness, all the writers of antiquity re-appeared, to charm, instruct, and renovate the world. It was the era of regeneration, when you, 0, beloved masters! Pliny, Apicius, Petronius, Athenseus,—and you, ingenuous and faithful chroniclers of the gastro- nomic follies of the people-king,—were resuscitated in all your glory ! Others instructed the universe in philosophy, eloquence, and history,—you taught man how the ancients dined ; and, thanks to your lessons, our fathers began to com- prehend that, since the table is the great scene of life where bonds of friend- ship are formed and cemented, banqueting is indispensable to the prosperity of nations. No one will accuse us, we hope, of endeavouring to establish a paradox for which we could hardly find an excuse, in our love of the culinary art, a3 long experience, and public facts within the memory of all, victoriously confirm our assertion. Let us interrogate the 19th century. Hardly had the lamentable wars which divided the nations of Europe ceased,—hardly had the vibration of the last cannon- shot died away,—when the people of every clime—too long disunited—sealed by fraternal banquets their tardy but frank reconciliation. The destructive genius of war is succeeded by those grand struggles of commerce and industry, which, aided by the arts and sciences of civilisation, dispense to all the blessing of reproductive wealth. And then dinner is the sine qitd non,—to that goal all our efforts tend. The Englishman dines in Paris, the Frenchman dines in London ; the time-honoured national dishes become cosmopolite, like those who dwell on the banks of the Thames or the Seine ; on both sides the people are proud to communicate the arcana of those delicate preparations, which have only to cross the frontier to obtain, under a favourable sky, a more* ample illustration and a new right of citizenship. Appetite, the roasting-jack,—in a word, gastronomy, serves perhaps to unite men much more firmly than motives of interest; and moro than one thought useful to the human species has often originated in the midst of the creative excitement of a banquet, where, to say tho least, we meet with that hearty goodwill and friendly aid which might bo wanting elsewhere. Shall we mention that prodigious enterprise with which a noblo prince—the enlightened protector of industry and the arts, and so worthy of our love and re- spect—has deigned to couple a name dear to public gratitude ? The royal plan was nothing loss than this : to erect an immense, costly, and