PIP FRUIT. 108 APPLE TREE. A very ancient tradition—for it is six thousand years old—represents the apple as being, from the beginning of the "world, the inauspicious fruit to which may he traced all the miseries of mankind. We crave permission to defend it from this accusation, merely by these few words, “ That it is nowhere written.” The holy hooks rarely speak of the apple tree. If we are not mis- taken, it is only mentioned in five passages10 of the sacred writings, and at periods very distant from the first offence of man. Therefore, nothing indicates aversion or contempt on the part of the inspired writers for this tree, which on one occasion serves even as a graceful term of com- parison ;20 from which it might be concluded that the inhabitants of the east thought as much of it as other nations. There is one (and perhaps only one) example of a singular and ex- cessive repugnance to apples. It is said that Uladislas, Ping of 1 oland, no sooner perceived them than he became so confused and tenified that he immediately fled. It certainly required very little to disturb this poor prince! Greece produced very beautiful apple trees, and their fruit was so excellent, that it was the favourite dessert of Philip of Macedon, and of his son, Alexander the Great, who caused them to be served at all their meals.21 Probably they were obtained purposely for them from the island of Euboea, which enjoyed an extraordinary reputation for apples.22 The Athenian legislator—the wise Solon—almost succeeded in throwing discredit on this aliment, so much liked by his fellow-citizens, by a sumptuary law which he thought it necessary to establish. The inhabitants of Attica were fond of good living; and when one of them took a wife he spared no expense to give splendour to the nuptial banquet—a very excusable pride on such an occasion. Solon was in the habit of interfering rather too much in the affairs of others. Every one has his failing, and this was Ins: he imagined that his fellow citi zens fared too sumptuously on their wedding-day ; and, in oidei to cui tail an expense contrary to his ideas of economy, he oidered that the