THE DINING-ROOM. 3f>5 was replaced by a large urn, and two cups of Bacchus were gracefully balanced at either extremity of the yard,18 along which were suspended craters, or vases, used in drinking wine.1J The buffet of the Greeks and Romans survived the ruins of those two celebrated nations; we find it again in the middle ages, and even in more modern times. Then also, rich people loved to display their plate on a very apparent piece of furniture, which, being dressed, took the name of “dresser.” Monstrelet, describing the magnificence of the Duke of Burgundy during his sojourn in Paris, relates: “ that in the room of his mansion in which he eat was a square dresser (dressoir) with shelves, which dresser was covered and loaded with very rich gold and silver plate.” 20 Sovereigns who affected great munificence had buffets of metal; there were three—one for silver, one for silver-gilt, and one for gold. At the banquet which the King of France, Charles V., gave to the Em- peror Charles IV., his uncle, each of the three buffets was of the same metal as the plate it supported.21 After the birth of a child, ladies, when they received visits, had a dresser placed in their room. Those of countesses and great ladies had three shelves; those of the wives of the younger sons of baronets had two ; women well-connected but not titled could have no shelf. Those who enjoyed the honours of the court placed by the side of the buffet a little table, covered with a white cloth, destined for the hippocrass and spiced wine they offered their visitors,22 and which they drank in hanaps, or a kind of chalice of earthenware, gold, or silver. Those of crystal were much esteemed. Charles the Bald gave to the Abbey of St- Denis a hanap, said to have belonged to Solomon. “It was of pure gold, fine emeralds, fine garnets, and the work so marvellous that in all the kingdoms of the world never was there anything so perfect.”23 The great lords also indulged in metal dressers,2* to which the 16th century gave the name of “buffets." Under Henry II. of France the court called them credence, from an Italian word bearing the same meaning,25 and which they have retained. The Hebrews probably knew nothing of chimneys. When King Jehoiakim burned the book which Jeremiah had written, “ he sat in the winter-house in the ninth mouth: and there was a fire on the hearth burning before him.” 20 When, among the Greeks or Romans, they wanted to warm the