MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE, AND EGGS. 172 nations, distinguished the rich from the common people. It is obtained principally from cows’ milk; that from ewes is the fattest. Goats also supply some. It is produced by agitating the milk in long vessels with a narrow opening. A little water is added. Formerly it was required in many countries that the dealer in this article should sell good butter to his customers. In France, for in- stance, intolerance was carried so far as to forbid “ all persons to re-scrape, beat or work up any butter, either fresh or salted ; change, mix, or mingle it, under pain of Icing whipped.”" Since then the strangeness of such a measure has become palpable, the more so as modern good faith and honesty render it more useless than ever. During the early ages of the Church, butter was burned in the lamps instead of oil. This practice is still continued in Abyssinia.30 The cathedral of Bouen has a tower, called the “ Butter Tower. It acquired this name from the fact that George d Amboise, who was arch bishop of that city in 1500, seeing that oil was scarce in his diocese during Lent, authorised the use of butter, on condition that each diocesan should pay six deniers Tournois (about a farthing) for the permission. The money obtained by these means served to construct the Butter Tower.”37 . , To obtain butter instantly it is only necessary, in summer to put new milk into bottles some hours after it has been taken from the cow and shake it briskly. The clots which form, thrown into a sieve, washed and pressed together, constitute the finest and most delicate butter that can possibly be made. , * One of the great means of preserving butter fresh for any length of time is, first to press all the buttermilk completely out, then to keep.it under water (renewing the water frequently), and to abstract it from influence of heat and ah'by wrapping it in a wet cloth. When butter has become very rancid, it is melted several times by a moderate heat, with or without the addition of water, and, as soon■ has-been malaxated, after the cooling, in order to extract any water it may have retained, it is put into brown freestone pots, sheltered from l e contact of the air. Frequently, when it is melted, a piece of oasted bread is put into it, which acts jn the same manner as charcoal; that to say, it attenuates the rancidity.38