254 THE COOK. into the arena, how many glorious names will not culinary annals have to register! Somebody will, perhaps, one day publish a chronological history of celebrated cooks. In the meantime, it may not be amiss to lecall to memory a few illustrious men, whose services and genius an ungrateful posterity has too soon forgotten. Thimbron, among the Greeks, took the culinary art from its ciadle. he watched devoutedly over its development, and ouly descended into the tomb after having won the heart of the whole of Greece, for his favourite science. Timachidas of Rhodes, cook and poet of the highest renown, composed an epopee on the art which he professed, in the midst of emanations from the stoves and the spit1- His verses, glowing with the sacred fire which inspired him, lighted up the magiric vein of several of his disciples, among whom Numenius, Hegemon, and Metreas, are still cited.13 Artemidorus collected and commented on all the words in use in the kitchens of his time.14 Greece owed to this patient terminologist the possession of a culinary language, subject to certain unchangeable rules. Mithcecus gave the “ Sicilian Cook a remarkable type of a mul- titude of tiresome and insipid imitations.15 At length Archestratus appeared. He was of Syracuse, and passed all his life in profoundly meditating on the functions, strength, ano- malies, and resources of the stomach. He discovered the laws which govern that organ, and presented to the world his magnificent treatise on gastronomy1G—an inestimable master-piece of laborious investi- gation of which time has deprived us, together with the works of his useful predecessors. We must not omit the names of some celebrated theoricians, to w 10111 the art owes its rapid progressPhiloxenus of Leucadus, devote himself to the difficult study of degustation, and practised severa expe- riments, which were, however, ill-appreciated by his contemporaries. Thus in the public baths, he accustomed his mouth and limit s to e contact of boiling-water, in order to be able to seize and devour burning viands, the instant lliey were placed on the table. He recommended cooks to serve everything very hot, so that he alone exercised ■aast.reuo and deglutition, while other guests less inured, were oblige o to themselves with looking at him.