44 FRUMENTA. the end of that time squeeze out all the water, and place the paste in another vessel; reduce it to the consistence of thick lees, pass it through a piece of new linen, and repeat this last operation; dry it in the sun, and then boil it in milk.28 As regards the exact seasoning of this exquisite Roman dish, it is your own genius which must inspire you with the proportions. Let us not omit to notice the Erupmon of the Greeks, the Irion of the Latins, the Indian Wheat of the moderns. This plant produces a wholesome and easily digestible food; it was well known in Italy in the time of Pliny,29 at which period the peasants used to make a crisp sort of heavy bread, probably somewhat similar to that which is still used in the south of France. Since the famine of 1847 great attention has been paid to this flour; much was imported into England from America, where it is used in domestic economy; when green, its milky pulp is an excellent food: the various advantages of this flour, however, are not sufficiently deve- loped to give all the benefit of its goodness to the world; habit and prejudice assist materially to prevent its being generally employed. The Romans also ate it as hasty-pudding, parched or roasted, with a little salt. A writer equally remarkable for his elegant and easy style, as well as for the justness of his observations, informs us that, in our days, the Indian inhabitants of the unfruitful plains of Marwar never dress Indian corn in any other way.90 Such are the principal graminea which the ancients thought worthy of their attention, or allowed to appear on their tables, with more or less honour according to the degree of esteem in which they were held. It is probable that the cooks in the great gastronomic period of Rome and Athens, who knew so well the capricious nature of their masters’ palates,31 had to borrow from magiric chemistry, then so flourishing, some won- derful means of giving to various kinds of cereals a culinary value they now no longer possess—what might we not expect from a Thimbron, a Mithoecus,33 a Soterides ?34 This latter performed a feat which does him too much honour to be unnoticed here. The King of Bithynia, Nicomedes, was taken with a strange, invincible, and imperious longing which admitted of no delay; he ordered his cook, Soterides, to be sent for, and commanded him to prepare instantly a dish of loaches. “ Loaches, Sire !” cried the skilful, yet terrified cook ; " by all the gods, protectors of'the kingdom, where can I procure these fish