ANIMALS. Ml ■winter savory with, bay leaves, and moisten with gravy and gaium, then add to this mixture some pork, chopped small, more garum and peppei, and a good quantity of bacon, with a few pine nuts. "When these vaiious ingredients are well incorporated one with another, you stuff the pie- pared intestines, and hang up the sausages.09 Imperial Sausages— Cut some pork into very small pieces, which must be pounded with the finest bread, well-soaked in wine; then pound some pepper and decorticated myrtle leaves, and add some gravy. Make some small sausages, and put inside some fir-nuts. When these sausages are finished, you must cook them over a slow fire, with sweet wine, previously reduced to a-third.'0 The following is the seasoning you must add to it:— Bone some small chickens, and put them into a saucepan, with leeks, dill, and salt. When this is cooked, add pepper and smallage seed; then crumble some sesame bread, on which pour some very thick gravy, mix the whole well, and serve with the sausages.71 The Gauls had very considerable herds of swine, which they fed exclusively upon acorns. The inhabitants of the towns reared them in their houses. As these animals went frequently out, they caused some obstruction, and we know that Philip, grandson of Louis-le-Gros, lost his life in Paris, in consequence of a furious pig having run between the legs of his horse, and caused him to fall. This accident took place on the 1st October, 1131. The 3rd of the same month a procla- mation was issued, forbidding all persons to let their swine ramble through the streets of Paris. A short time after, those which belonged to the Abbaye Saint-Antoine were privileged ; the abbess and the nuns having represented that it would be a want of courtesy to their patron saint not to exempt his hogs from the general rule.72 A new proclamation of the 20th January, 1350, interdicted with still greater severity the rearing of swine in the town of Paris, under penalty of a fine of GO sous (two shillings and four-pence); and the police were authorized to kill them wheresoever they might be found, to take the head as a perquisite for themselves, and to deposit the carcase at the PIotel-Dieu (the name of an hospital), charging that establishment with the cost incurred for its conveyance 73 .there was nothing more delicate in the lGth century, nothing more odoriferous, than the flesh of young pigs fed on parsnips,73 A and roasted, with a stuffing of fine herbs.738