FISII. 217 This gigantic accipenser, which often weighs two hundred pounds, is quite common in Siberia, where they even catch some of a much larger size, since some of the females have been found to contain two hundred pounds weight of eggs.39 In 1750, one was caught in Italy which weighed 550 lbs. There are some in Norway, the head alone of which vields a tun of oil,40 and whose immense proportions would formerly have astonished the most intrepid gastrophilists of Athens, Syracuse, and Rome. An alimentary substance, called caviar, furnished almost exclusively by Russia to the rest of Europe, is prepared from the spawn of several kinds of sturgeons. The spawn of the large sturgeon produces caviar of an inferior qua- lity; that of the common sturgeon, and the sterlet, is prized as being more delicate, when it is carefully separated from the vessels and mem- branes with which it is intersected, well impregnated with brine, pressed, and slightly dried. White caviar, it is said, is the best of all. It is ' reserved for the court. There are two sorts of caviar: granulated caviar, and sack caviar. The manufacture of the first named is performed by pressing the spawn on a sieve, and rubbing it in every direction to remove the joel- licles which adhere to it, after which it is put into strong brine for one hour, then drained in a sieve, and, finally, pressed close into barrels, so as to entirely fill them before the head is fastened down.42 The manufacture of the other kind of caviar only differs in two par- ticulars. The spawn is manipulated while in the brine, in order to soften it, and it is put, in small portions of about half-a-pound each, into linen bags, which are powerfully twisted to extract all the brine before it is pressed into the barrels. The workmen employed in these operations make a third kind of caviar with the refuse. This sort, used only by the poorest classes, deserves no notice. For some years past, they have introduced the method of salting the roes as they are taken from the fish, and packing them into barrels, where they remain seven or eight months; after which they are again salted, and then dried in the sun. Caviar occupies a very distinguished place in Russian, Turkish, C-erman, and Italian gastronomy. The Greeks, in particular, live upon it almost exclusively during the long Lent fasts prescribed by their Church.43 o