THE SERVANTS. 378 stones that might be lying in their path, and which repeated libations might have prevented their visual organs from discovering.50 We must not omit, in this nomenclature of the principal servants of a good house, the taster (prcegustator), who tasted or tried the viands before the guests touched them ;57 nor the chief steward (triclinarches), and director of the repast, who had to occupy himself with an infinity of details in the kitchen, the cellar, the pantry, the buffet, and the dining-room.28 A living synthesis of these multiplied services, he performed them all himself. The least negligence, the slightest absence of mind on his part, would have ruined the reputation, utterly marred the sumptuous hospitality, of his master. Never did the general of an army tremble under the weight of a responsibility so redoubtable. Procillatores, or cup-bearer, an officer whose duty was to fill and present the cup to the king and princes. This charge was known in Egypt, and the ancients transformed Ganymede into a cup-bearer to the gods. Charlemagne had master cup-bearers. These officers signed royal charters, and kept rank amongst the great officers of state. The head one took the title of Echanson to the king, of master, premier, or great echanson. In the 15th century the echansons exercised then-func- tions only on the coronations, marriages, and entries of kings and queens. Louis XVIII. re-established the office of premier echanson. It was abolished in 1880. There was, moreover, a class of miserable, obscure, despised slaves, whose useful labours rendered them necessary, and who were treated much the same as beasts of burden. This order of subaltern servants were composed of:— The lecticarii. They earned the elegant palanquin in which the haughty matron or the noble senator were conveyed to the banquetiug- hall.29 The stokers {foearil), who cut the wood, lighted, and attended to the fires.30 The sweepers (scoparii), whose indefatigable activity kept the apart- ments and furniture clean.31 DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XXVIII. No. 1. Procillatores, or Echantvn, from a painting at Herculaneum. No. 2. Triclinium, from a fculpturc at Pompeii.