THE COOlv. 268 sold by them, was to be composed “ of good cinnamon, good ginger, good cloves, good grains of paradise, good bread, and good vinegar.” The sauce, Tence, was to be made of “ good sound almonds, good ginger, good wine, and good verjuice.” We find in Taillevaut, the cele- brated cook of Charles V. and Charles VI., besides the came line, Veau benite (-holy water)—the sauce for pike, le saupiquet, le moslechan, la gelatine, la sauce a I'alose, au niout, that of milk-garlic, cold, red, and green sauces, sauce Robert, Poilevir/c, a Madame rappee, and a la dodine. Platina, a Latin author of the 15th century, speaks of other sauces, in the composition of which sugar was frequently employed, according to the proverb of those times : “ Sugar never spoiled sauce.” In the middle ages, poultry, butchers’ meat, and roast game, were never eaten dry, as they are now, any more than fried fish. There were different sauces for all’those dishes, and even for the different parts of each animal. The cooks of those days strove to acquire a reputation by inventing strange and grotesque sauces, which had no other merit than that of being surprising and difficult to make, as, for example. “ eggs cooked on the spit,” “ butter fried or roasted.” &c.31 We recognize in some of our most common ragouts, those of which our ancestors were so fond in the middle ages, such as the bauf a la mode, a la persillade, au vinaigre et persil, le miroton de bceuf, veau perce de gros lard, fricassee de poulet, blanquetle de veau roti; but we have lost the pot-pourri, composed of beef, veal, mutton, bacon, and vegetables, and the galimafree, a kind of fricassee of fowl, seasoned with wine, verjuice, and spices, and thickened with the famous sauce cameline.32 A The cooks frequently placed on their masters’ tables ragouts an other dishes borrowed from foreign nations. They had a German brouet, a Flemish chaudeau, eggs a la Florentine, and partridges a la Catalane They knew the olla—a mixture of all sorts of vegetables cooked with different kinds of meats, which we owe to the Spaniards, as well as the ragoU of fowl, called a la Gliipolata, and the kencffes-a kind of forced-meat balls made of bread and meat, to which the Germans are very partial, and the pilau—a dish of mutton, fowl, and rice, bor- rowed from tbe Turks.33 . , The art of cooking with its innumerable paraphernalia of sauces "it gravy, pepper, cinnamon, garlic, scallion, brains,” with its gravy soups,