PASTRY. 291 present to the gods were generally purchased at the entrance of the temple ; especially every species of consecrated bread, which was de- nominated accordingly. One species of sacred bread which used to be offered to the gods was of great antiquity, and called Bonn." It was a kind of cake, with a representation of two horns. Julius Pollux men- tions it after the same manner—a sort of cake with horns. Diogenes Laertius, speaking of the same offering being made by Empedocles, describes the chief ingredients of which it was composed :—“ He offered one of the sacred Vila, called a house (bans), which was made of fine flour and honey.”37 England seems, then, to have retained the name and’the form of the ancient Ions, though the people do not recognise in the bun anything sacred or holy. Titus Livy said, in speaking of Rome, “ The greatest things have small beginnings.” This applies equally to pastry, which appears so unworthy of attention at the commencement of the middle ages that nothing seems to announce its high destiny. At first, in the southern provinces, people simply mixed flour, oil, and honey. The Roman school was still in force. The inhabitants of the north had a mind to innovate; they employed eggs, butter, and salt. Then came the idea of inclosing within this paste cooked meat, seasoned with bacon and spices; and, from progress to progress, they at last inclosed cream, fruit, and marmalades.38 We find pastry mentioned for the first time in a charter of Louis- le-Debonnaire (802). It is there said that a certain farm of the Abbey of St. Denis is to furnish, at certain festivals, sixteen measures of honey, eleven hundred oxen, and five hogsheads of flour to make pastry.39 A charter of the church of Paris, 1202, mentions simnels or wigs, under the name of “panes leves qui dicuntur echaudati." Joinville speaks, in “ The life of St. Louis,” of cheese fritters cooked in the sun, which the Saracens presented to that king and his knights when they restored them to liberty. And, finally, so early as the 10th century, the flans of Chartres, the patties of Paris, and the tarts of Dourlans, were in great renown; and a charter of 1301 informs us that, at that epoch, several lords imposed on their vassals a tribute of fugues, or puff- pastry.40 The cook of Charles V. says, that the word tourte signified a house- hold loaf of a round form; that this name was afterwards given to