DRIED VEGETABLES. 57 although it has so little attraction for us.32 In short, the nation of kings had so decided a taste for grey peas, that those who coveted pub- lic employment did not fail to distribute them gratuitously to the people, in order to obtain their suffrages.33 We must acknowledge that in those days votes were obtained at a very cheap rate. LENTILS. The Egyptians, whose ideas were sometimes most eccentric, ima- gined it was sufficient to feed children with lentils to enlighten their minds, open their hearts, and render them cheerful. That people, there- fore, consumed an immense quantity of this vegetable, which from infancy had been their principal food.34 The Greeks also highly esteemed this aliment, and their ancient philosophers regaled themselves with lentils. Zeno would not trust to any one the cooking of them; it is true that the stoics had for their maxim: “ A wise man acts always with reason, and prepares his lentils himself.”35 We must confess that the great wit of these words escapes us, although we are willing to believe there is some in them. However it may be, lentils were abundant in Greece and in the East; and many persons, otherwise very sensible, maintained, with the most serious countenance in the world, that they softened the temper and disposed the mind to study.36 It is hardly necessary to observe that this plant was well known to the Hebrews. The red pottage of lentils for which Esau sold his birth- right,37 the present of Shobi to David,38 the victory of Shammah in the field of lentils,39 and, lastly, the bread of Ezekiel,40 sufficiently prove that the Jews numbered this vegetable as one of those in ordinary use among them. The Romans had not the same esteem for it as the nations we have mentioned. According to them, the moisture in lentils could only cause heaviness to the mind, and render men reserved, indolent, and lazy. The name of this vegetable pretty well shows, they said, the bad effect it produces. Lentil derives its origin from the word lentus (slow),41 “ Lens a lente." And, as if enough had not been alleged to disgrace this unfortunate E