DRINKING CUrS. 321 engraving represented the mysteries of Ceres and Bacchus; hut it had no primitive handle, and the diameter was only turn inches and a-half.41 Bv the side of these inestimable Murrhines were standing very graceful chalices of amber, the prodigious workmanship of which absolutely gave to them a most arbitrary value,4* but which Roman prodigality never found too high. Silver cups engraved were also nearly as much esteemed, when they came from the hands of some well-known workman—such as Myos, Mentor, or Myron.43 They were even preferred to gold cups,44 unless these latter were enriched with precious stones.45 All these vases presented still greater varieties in their forms than in the materials employed. There were very large ones, some narrow, some oblong; many ornamented with two handles, others had only one.45 Some were much like a tympanon—or zoph, a musical instru- ment of the ancient Hebrews—a small boat or ewrer.47 In one word, the Greek or Roman artist never listened to anything but his own fancy, and was then far from supposing that he was preparing very long and wakeful hours of study to many antiquarians, zealous to explain seriously the strange wanderings of a fantastical imagination. DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XXI. Mubrhinb Vase.—This vase is the most precious of all those which have come down to us. It is dniwn here half the original size, and belongs to Prince de Biscuri, in Sicily, which bus been described ^ him in the dissertation entitled, “ De Vati Murrini Bagionamenli." Three pieces of opal in the first place form the cup; the second, the stem ; end the last, the base of the foot. If this vase is an antique, »»'t is said by the Prince de Biscuri ; if true that several pieces of opal have often been found 11s large and as fine (which appears doubtful, in the actual state of minetalogio knowledge), the question upon the Murrhine vases would be decided. They would have been of opal, and not porcelain; neither of sardonyx I'ierre ,U lard—a* many have believed, nor of eacholong (a species of chalcedony, opaque, of a yellowish white), as I have described it.