PLANTS USED IN SEASONING. 93 WORMWOOD. The Egyptians had a great respect for the wormwood of Taposiris,— no doubt on account of the medicinal properties which physicians attri- buted to it. Heliogabalus often regaled the populace with wormwood wine,52 and the Romans gave it to the victorious charioteers. Pliny thinks this plant so salutary that nothing more precious could have been presented to them.53 This explanation appears to have had but little plausibility, and it has been more rationally supposed that this liquor prevented or counteracted any giddiness they might feel. “ You can cure yourself of dizziness,” says Strabo, “with the bitter leaf of wormwood.”54 The Roman wormwood wine was composed in the following manner : They bruised one ounce of this vegetable, and mixed it with three scruples of gum, as much spikenard, six of balm, and three scruples of salfron ; to which was added eighteen setters, or 180 gallons English, of old wine. This mixture was left to stand some time, but was not heated or subjected to any other process.55 In pharmacy, wine is made of wormwood; also a syrup, a preserve, an extract, oil by infusion, an essential oil, and wormwood salt. It is supposed that several brewers on the Continent substitute the leaves and flowers of this plant for hops, in the manufacture of beer. It is, perhaps, a calumny, and we only repeat it in a whisper. “ The leaves of wormwood are used in salad to make it more digestible and heighten the flavour. They are preserved in vinegar, and to season dishes. Lastly, they are considered by some persons as a remedy, and the frequent use of them to be indispensable for the preservation of their existence.”—Bose. In concluding this chapter, it will be necessary to anticipate a ques- tion which naturally presents itself: did the Romans know the art of forcing fruits, and of procuring, at one season, the various vegetables or plants which belong to another period of the year? Some verses from Martial will leave no doubt on the subject:— “ Whoever has seen the orchards of the King of Corcyrus (Alcinous),