99 STONE FRUIT. ashes and water in proportion were added. The olives were left to soak for eight or ten hours in this lye : then taken out, washed with care, and im- mersed for eight days in very clear soft water, which was changed several times. They then took hot water in which some stems of fennel had been infused; this plant was taken out, and the same water saturated with salt until an egg would float. When it was quite cold, the olives were put into this pickle.32 As regards the large olives, or colymbadcs, they were sometimes crushed after the first operation, that the brine might penetrate more easily; and odoriferous herbs were added to give them a better flavour. This was the way they prepared those from the marshes of Ancona—the only ones admitted at the tables of gourmets™ At Rome, olives made their appearance in the first course, at the beginning of the repast; but sometimes, after their introduction, the gluttony of the guests caused them to be served again with the dessert: so that they opened and closed the banquet.34 The distributions of oil, to which Latin authors often allude, were somewhat rare for a long period. The people looked upon this fluid more as an object of luxury than a necessary of life, and it was only on extraordinary occasions that they were gratified with it. Thus, when Scipio Africanus began his curule edileship, each citizen received a measure of oil.35 After his example, Agrippamade similar distributions, in the reign of Augustus. They became more frequent under the Emperors; and Severus ordered that an immense quantity should be brought into Rome.30 Venafra, a town of Campania, supplied excellent oil.37 Pliny says that it surpassed that of all the rest of Italy.38 However in those days, as at present, much was consumed of a very bad quality: for instance, that which was served by a clumsy Amphytrion to Julius Caesar, and with which this prince seemed perfectly satisfied—a proof that the celebrated warrior was either a man of exquisite politeness or an epicure of very scanty ability.39 Independently of the culinary preparations in which oil was abun- dantly used, the ancients also employed much of it for anointing them- selves; and, when at the bath, a slave always carried some in a vase,40 with which they were rubbed. It was believed that the vital heat was thus concentrated, the strength increased, and health preserved. Augustus inquiring one day of Pollio what ought to be done to