214 FISH. The love of fish became a real mania: turbots excited a furore of admiration—the murcena Helena was worshipped. Hortensius, the orator, actually wept over the death of the one he had fed with his own hands; the daughter of Drusus ornamented hers with golden rings; each had a name, and would come with speed when it heard the voice of the master, whose happiness depended on his fish.10 Sometimes, in a moment of over tenderness for his dear murcena Helena, Vedius Pollio, a Roman knight of the highest distinction, and one of the intimate friends of the Emperor Augustus, could find nothing better to do than to feed them with the flesh of his slaves, who were thrown to them alive.20 It is true that these wretched creatures gene- rally deserved this terrible chastisement; for instance, Seneca speaks of one who had' the awkwardness to break a crystal vase21 while waiting at supper on the irascible Pollio. This unfortunate slave having managed to escape from the hands of those who were conducting him to this horrible death, he went and fell on his knees at the feet of Cffisar, whom he implored to inflict some less frightful torture. Augustus, moved to the very soul, granted him his liberty, had all of Vedius s vases broken, and ordered that the pieces should be used to fill up the reservoir in which the barbarous knight fed his murcena Helena.22 Having given this rapid sketch of the principal periods of ichthy- ophagy among the ancients, little remains to be said of later ages in which we find few traces of any particular or excessive predilection for this kind of alimentation. If we are to believe Dio,23 the first inhabi- tants of Great Britain never eat fish. The English have not thought it expedient to imitate their ancestors in this respect. Under the reign of Edward II., certain fish, especially the sturgeon, never appeared in England except on the table of the king: it was prohibited to all others. In 1138, Stephen wanted to modify this interdiction; but after his reign it was again in vigour, and considered as a royal prerogative. In France, anybody could eat fisli, of any and all kinds; but every fishmonger was obliged to obtain permission from the king to sell it.2 The sumptuary laws of that kingdom inform us of nothing very interesting on this essential of gastrology. We find, however, by the Edict of 1294, that Philip-le-Bel allowed, on fast-days, two herring- pottages, and only one sort of fish-a meagre dinner, if ever there was one, and which, thank heaven, has fallen into complete disuse. Louis