05 DRIED VEGETABLES. In England the cake was often full of raisins, among which one bean and one pea were introduced. “ Cut the cake,” says Meliboeus to Nisa; “who hath the beane shal be kinge; and where the peaze is, shal be queene. 30 “ At the present day the bean is one of the vegetables most culti- vated in Egypt and Italy. At Naples, as in Egypt, they are eaten raw when young, and the large ones cooked and grilled in the oven. They are publicly sold already cooked.”—Leman. HARICOTS. It is well known that Alexander the Great was fond of travelling, and that he was generally accompanied in his peregrinations by a cei’- tain number of soldiers, who occasionally took for him, on his route, cities, provinces, and sometimes kingdoms. It happened, one day, that as the Macedonian prince—worthy pupil of Aristotle—was herbalizing in India, his eyes fell upon a field of haricots, which appeared to him very inviting. It was the first time that he had seen this plant, and he immediately ordered his cook to prepare a dish of them—we do not know with what sauce; but he thought them good, and, thanks to this great conqueror, Europe was enriched with a new vegetable.21 Virgil was doubtless ignorant of this noble origin, when he decried haricots severely, by qualifying them so disgracefully.22 It is true that the lower classes of people, who were very fond of them, did great injury to their reputation ; for things the most exquisite soon lose then- value when they fall within the reach of the vulgar. It is thus with a pleasing melody—when given up to the barbarous and melancholy street organs it ceases to charm the ears of drawing-room fashionables. The same again with a plaintive ballad—it loses its attraction the moment a street Orpheus begins to murder it with his Stentorian bawl. Let it not be thought, however, that the plant of which we speak was exclusively reserved for the vulgar appetite. Oh, no ! the Greeks and Latins had too much good taste for that. The former allowed it a distinguished place on their tables, together with figs, and other side