POULTRY. 150 Afterwards barley flour, kneaded with milk, was preferred , then, instead of milk, water, and honey were employed. Excellent wheaten bread, soaked in good wine and hydromel, was also used with success.23 Skilful breeders by these means obtained magnificent bens of an incredibly exquisite flavour, and which weighed no iess than sixteen pounds.24 The Fannian law unfortunately came, and, as we have before observed, brought impediments to these beautiful results by interdicting aviaries and skilfully prepared pastes. It is true that this law allowed a farm-yard hen to be served at every repast2'‘—mats une pottle par jour est-ce contentement l It became necessary, then, to have recourse to a mezzo-termine, which was discovered in the capon. But the favourite dish forbidden by the consular authority was not altogether abandoned: some faithful epicureans always possessed in the shade well-furnished aviaries; and it was even then, we are assured, that Rome and the universe were enriched with the poiilarde. Poularde a la Viminale— Cook a fine hen in its gravy; pound and mix benzoin, pepper, oil, and garum, a little thyme, fennel seed, cummin, mint, and rue ; stir for a long time ; add some % inegar, pound some dates, and mix them with honey and a little vinegar. Of all this make a homogeneous seasoning, and pour it on the hen when it is cold.27 THE CHICKEN. It is certainly surprising that a people so serious as the Komans Generally "ere, should make the success of the greatest enterprise depend on the appetite of their famous sacred chickens. They were brought from the Island of Negropont, and were kept shut up in cages, their guardian was designated by the name of Pullarius.” Publius Claudius, constrained to consult these strange prop before engaging in a naval combat, ordered them to be fed ; they refused to open their beaks. The incredulous general ordered them at once to be thrown into the sea, and laughingly exclaimed to the dismayed Pullarius: “ Since they will not eat-well! then let ns make them drink.