ANIMAL FOOD. 128 demned to work in the mines; that those who should have been con- victed of robbery several times should be beheaded ; and that thieves found with arms in their hands should become the prey of wild beasts.'10 Illustrious families by birth often added to their name a sort of epithet, originating either from bulls, goats, or sheep, which were brought up on the land of their villas. This singular custom proves the extra- ordinary attachment which the Romans had for their flocks. One of these enthusiasts, Tremellius Scrofa,41 had written a treatise on the art of assorting and feeding cattle.42 Greek and Latin geoponics have also transmitted to us some details full of interest, and which often contain most useful information upon the various species of animals which the ancients preferred, and the particular care they took in the preservation and development of various breeds.43 Pagan theology reckoned among its thirty thousand gods44 some few protective divinities of flocks. The shepherds invoked Pales45 and Anna Perenna;46 dealers of oxen offered sacrifices to Bubona,47 whose special care it was to see that they were fat and healthy. The animals chosen to be fattened were put under the protection of this deity, and were fed in the following manner: The first day they had given to them cabbages, soaked in vinegar; then, for five days, straw, mixed with wheat bran; from the seventh day they had nothing but bruised barley, which was gradually and judi- ciously increased till the twelfth day. These oxen were fed at midnight, at break of day, at twelve o’clock, and at three in the afternoon. They were allowed to drink only twice—that is, after the third and fourth meal.48 On the thirteenth day they were led to market. MARKETS. The Hebrews held their cattle market at the gates of their cities; and from this circumstance, perhaps, is derived those expressions so fre- quent in the sacred writings: “ The gates of the flocks, “ The sheep’s gate,” &C.,40 which no doubt designated the different quarters of Jeru- salem where shepherds and cattle dealers were accustomed to congregate. Among the Greeks, vast, airy, public places, used to receive, under