306 BEVERAGES. TEA. This plant is a native of China, and it is only in the Celestial Empire that tea is cultivated to any great extent. Why, then, is it neglected on all other points of the globe situated in the same latitude? Doubtless, because the soil of China is superior for its culture to that of any other country. The shrub that produces tea is cultivated between the twenty-third and thirty-third degrees of latitude; it thrives on the mountainous parts, on the slope of the hills, and that which grows on high ground is far superior to that gathered in the valleys. It is the same with this plant as with the vine in France and in Europe; it grows on flat land, and succeeds wonderfully on plains exposed to the sun s rays. The Chinese export teas of the first quality in much greater propor- tion than those of an inferior kind. In England there is a larger consumption than in^any other country in the woild. In China, the tea that forms the habitual beverage of the people is a very inferior species of the Boo tea. The provinces of Kiang-Nang, Kiaug-Si, and Ghe-Kiang, furnish green tea to Russia, the United States, Calcutta, and various European countries ; the province of Fo-Kien furnishes black, tea to England, with the exception of a third of the boo tea, or bohee, which is exported from a district called Wo-Ping, lying to the north-west of the province of Canton. It is in Fo-Kien that the cultivation of this precious shrub is held in the highest estimation. In this province it is deprived of a large number of its buds at the beginning of the spring. Of these are made the tea Pe-ko, the most renowned of all kinds. Congo tea serves to perfume part of these buds, and to impart to them a more agreeable flavour. A first gathering of full-grown leaves takes place at the commence- ment of May, a second towards the middle of June, and a third and last at the end of the summer. This produces a tea inferior to the pre- ceding kinds in point of quality and perfume. The inhabitants of Fo-Kien cultivate tea in inclosures; and at the