FI STL 231 pendus a la ceinture152 “ Whitings weigh no more when eaten than when hung to the girdle.” Nevertheless, the Greeks did not think much of it, arid they said that the whiting was only good for those who could not obtain more delicate fish.15,4 The Romans, less severe or not quite so particular, cooked their whitings with a sauce composed as follows :—put with the fish, in a stewpan, some garum, chopped leeks, cummin, savory, and a sufficient quantity of cooked wine, and some wine slightly diluted; cook it on a slow fire.154 COD FISH. The cod fish supplied the ancients with the most exquisite dish next to the sturgeon.155 The only fault found with it was, that it cost less than others. The Greek cooks sprinkled it with grated cheese, moistened with vinegar: then they threw over it a pinch of salt and a few drops of oil.156 Persons with delicate stomachs did not scruple to partake of this aliment, which Galen warranted as being excellent.157 The average size of this fish is about three feet in length ; but some are found of ten feet. The common weight is fifteen pounds, and some have been seen weighing 601bs. Leuwenhoek has said that 9,344,000 eggs had been found in one fish. It is probable he made a mistake,*as a cod fish of our days, weighing 50lbs., produced only 3,680,000 eggs— a number sufficiently prodigious, and which shows pretty well its great fecundity.158 It is supposed that the discovery of the great and small banks of cod fish is due to the Basque fishermen, who arrived there in pursuit of whales, one hundred years before Columbus’ voyage. Others give that honour to James Cartier, a native of Falkland Islands. “ As early as the 14th century, the English and the inhabitants of Amsterdam busied themselves with cod fishing; and later, the Irish, Norwegians, French, and Spaniards competed with them more or less successfully. In 1533, Francis I. having sent J. Verrazzano, and afterwards, Jacques Cartier, to explore the neighbourhood of Newfound- land, the French fishermen followed them, and brought back also this fish from those distant countries in the beginning of the 16th century.