81 KITCHEN GARDEN. Do you seek an efficacious remedy for the numerous evils which besiege us unceasingly ? Take horse-radish,—nothing but horse- radish.181 It is true that this incomparable root attacks the enamel of the teeth, and, indeed, soon spoils them;182 but why should we be so parti- cular when so many marvellous properties are in question ? As to its culinary preparation, Apicius recommends us to serve it mixed with pepper and garum.183 GARLIC. Garlic was known in the most remote ages. It was a god in Egypt.184 The Greeks held it in horror. It was part of their military food—hence came the proverb, “Eat neither garlic nor beansthat is to say, abstain from war and law.188 There was a belief that this plant excited the courage of warriors; therefore, it was given to cocks to incite them to fight. The Greek and Roman sailors made as great a use of it as the soldiers,180 and an ample provision was always made when they set out on any maritime expedition.187 It was a prevailing opinion that the effects of foul air were neutralized by garlic; and it was, no doubt, this idea which made reapers and peasants use it so lavishly.188 However, the taste for this vegetable was not always confined to the people, in the southern countries of Europe; it gained, at times, the high regions of the court. It is reported that, in 1368, Alphonso, King of Castile, who had an extreme repugnance to garlic, instituted an order of knighthood ; and one of the statutes was, that any knight who had eaten of this plant, could not appear before the sovereign for at least one month.189 The priests of Cybele interdicted the entry of the temple of this goddess to persons who had made use of garlic. Stilphon, troubling himself very little about this interdiction, fell asleep on the steps of the altar. The mother of the gods appeared to him in his dream, and reproached him with the little respect his breath disclosed for her. “If you wish me to abstain from garlic,” replied Stilnhon, “ crive me some- thing else to eat.”190