PANTROPHEON. 7 says Juvenal, a complete revenge on their conquerors. The unheard-of excesses of the table swallowed up patrimonies which seemed to be in- exhaustible, and illustrious dissipators obtained a durable but sad renown. The Romans had whimsical tastes, since they dared serve the flesh of asses and dogs, and ruined themselves to fatten snails. But, after all, the caprices of fashion, rather than the refinement of sensuality, com- pelled them to adopt these strange aliments. Paulus iEmilius, no doubt a good judge in such matters, formed a high opinion of the elegance displayed by his compatriots in the entertainments ; and he compared a skilful cook, at the moment when he is planning and arranging a repast, to a great general. We were very anxious to enrich our “ Pantropheon” with a greater number of Bills of Fare, or details of banquets; but we have become persuaded that it is very difficult, at the present day, to procure a complete and accurate account of the arrangement of feasts at which were seated guests who died two or three thousand years ago. Save and except the indications—more or less satisfactory, but always somewhat vague—which we gather on this subject from Petronius, Atheneeus, Apuleius, Macrobius, Suetonius, and some other writers, we can do little more than establish analogies, make deductions, and recon- struct the entire edifice of an antique banquet by the help of a few data, valuable, without doubt, but almost always incomplete. One single passage in Macrobius—a curious monument of Roman cookery—will supply the place of multiplied researches: it is the descrip- tion of a supper given by the Pontiff Lentulus on the day of his reception. We present it to the amateurs of the magiric art: “ The first course (ante-coena) was composed of sea-hedgehogs, raw oysters in abundance, all sorts of shell-fish, and asparagus. The second service comprised a fine fatted pullet, a fresh dish of oysters, and other shell-fish, different kinds of dates, univalvular shell-fish (as whelks, conchs, &c.), more oysters, but of different kinds, sea-nettles, beccaficoes, chines of roe-buck and wild boar, fowls covered with a perfumed paste, a second dish of shell-fish, and purples—a very costly kind of Crustacea. The third and last course presented several hors-d'oeuvre, a wild boar’s head, fish, a second set of hors-d'oeuvre, ducks, potted river fish, leverets, roast fowls, and cakes from the marshes of Ancona.” All these delicacies would very much surprise an epicurean of the