WINE. 82'.) v Falernum,90 the Albanum,” and the Mamertinum.98 After these, a number of other excellent wines occupied a very distinguished place in a long nomenclature to be found in Pliny90 and Athenceus."0 The ancients professed to have a very particular veneration for wines of a renowned growth, which had ripened slowly in amphorae. Some gastronomic archaeologists produced, on their tables certain wines which had so far dried up in leather bottles, that they were taken out in lumps;101 others, placed in the chimney corner, became in time as hard as salt.102 Petronius speaks of a wine of a hundred leaves.103 Pliny says that guests were served with wine more than two hundred years old : it was as thick as honey.104 This wine was thinned with warm water, and passed through the straining bag (sacccitio vinorum).105 This predilection for good old wine was common to the Greeks ;106 the Romans—who liked it for the bitterness it had contracted by age ;107 and the Egyptians, who, notwithstanding their time-honoured love of beer, were not unjust towards the beverage with which their Osiris found it so delightful to intoxicate himself.108 Athenaeus sets no bounds to his praise of old wine. He says it is excellent for the health ; it is the best thing to dissolve the food; it strengthens; it assists the circulation of the blood, and assures a peaceful sleep.109 Who, then, would be ungrateful enough to refuse to drink ? The topers of antiquity did not disdain white wine, but they seem to have viewed it as of secondary importance. It digests easily, says the writer just cited, but it is weak, and has but little body.110 Red wine, on the contrary, is full of strength and energy, and it is the first that the inhabitants of Chios learned to make,111 when GEnopion, the son of Bacchus, had planted the vine in their country.112 However, there was no lack of amateurs of white wine, and, like our- selves, the ancients doubtless preferred it when they eat snails, oysters, or any of those shell fish with which the Lucrine lake abounded. They even took it into their heads (how ingenious is gluttony!) to change red wine sometimes into white. To do this it was only necessary to put three whites of egg, or some bean flour, into a flagon, and shake it a long time. The same result was obtained with ashes from the white vine.113 Now, is Apicius jesting with us a little when he gives this recipe; or was it a legerdemain trick to amuse the guests at the end of a repast, when too frequent libations had rendered them incapable of distin- guishing clearly one colour from another ?