218 FISH. RED MULLET. Philoxenes, of Cythera, supped one night with Dionysius, tyrant of Sicily. It happened that the prince was served with a magnificent mullet, whereas a very small one was presented to his guest. The phi- losopher took his fish in his hand, and, with a very serious air, held it to his ear. Dionysius asked him what he was doing. “ I am busy with my Galathea,” replied Philoxenes, “ and I am questioning him on the subject of Nerea; but I can obtain no answer from him, because he was taken at too early an age. I am certain, however, that the other, evidently much older, which lies before you, is perfectly well acquainted with what I wish to know.” The tyrant, who happened that evening to he in a good humour, laughed at the joke, and offered the larger mullet to the witty gastronomist.44 The unbridled and cruel luxury of ancient Home required that this fish should be cooked by a slow fire, on the table and under a glass, that the guests might gloat on its sufferings before they satiated their appe- tites with its flesh.45 It is true this barbarous gratification was very expensive, and it was necessary to be very rich to indulge in it—conse- quently it was decidedly very fashionable, quite natural, and in the very best taste. Ordinary mullets weighed about 2 lbs. ;4G these hardly deserved that their dying agonies should for an instant amuse the guests; they were worth only about £L5 or T20 each. But sometimes fortune threw in their way much larger ones; and the opulent amateur esteemed himself only too fortunate when he could obtain a fish of three1' or four pounds for a much higher sum than he had paid for the slave, tutor ol his children. . . . e Crispins was fond of mullets. He obtained one weighmg fou. 01 six pounds, for which the fishmonger asked only £60." This was gmng it away ; and certainly the man did not understand h.s trade. Crispinus on becoming the possessor of this wonderful treasure was astomshed at his good fortune, and the whole of Rome long refused to neheve it. In the reign of Tiberius, three of these fish were sold for 30,000 sesterces," or £200 9s. M.; and this emperor was one day generous