180 HUNTING The most grave philosophers, and the most illustrious poets have bestowed praises on the chase. Aristotle advised young men to apply themselves to it early.9 Plato finds in it something divine.10 Horace looks upon it as healthful exercise, strengthening to the body, and preparing the way for gloryand in- deed, this heroic and royal exercise12 always possessed irresistible attrac- tion for the greatest men of antiquity. The warriors of Homer,13 Pelopidas,14 Alexander of Macedon,15 Philopoemen,16 seemed to derive from it fresh warlike ardour. The ancients hunted in the open country, in forests, and in parks. Mounted on fiery steeds, armed with javelins and long cutlasses, or with swords and lances,17 they excited their indefatigable hounds, and pro- mised to consecrate to Diana the stag’s horns, or the tusks of the boar,18 which might become their prey. The Greeks and Koreans reared hunting dogs with extreme care, and they began to make use of them from the age of eight or ten months.19 These animals had names, short, sonorous, and easy to be pronounced, such as Lance, Flower, Blade, Strength, Ardent, &c. The strongest and most courageous came from England and Scot- land ;21 Crete, Tuscany, and Umbria were the nurseries of the most expert.22 The Gallic dogs surpassed all others by their agility and astonishing swiftness.23 Females were generally preferred to the males,21 either because they were more docile, or pursued the game with more ardour and persist- ence. It may be as well to remark, too, in this place, that the Greeks thought much more of mares than of horses for chariot racing. The dogs were always chained. Their liberty was only given them at the moment of starting for the chase.20 Their fire and ferocity were then incredible. They dashed off with fury, and when they succeeded in coming up with their prey, some would suffer their legs to be cut off rather than loose their hold. The Indian dogs, trained for lion hunting, often gave this proof of obstinate and implacable rage.27 The ancients also took game by means of pits covered ovei with brushwood, in snares,28 with traps,29 and with nets;30 moreover, they often made use of bows and arrows, and understood the art of training falcons and hawks.'11 Eastern princes amused themselves by hunting in pai vs w leie a great number of wild beasts were kept.” The Eomans had too much