WINE. 333 of his crimes, thanks to the streams of wine which during the night ran from the fountains;140 and Caligula would, perhaps, have obtained that popularity which always failed him, had he possessed sufficient sense to offer to the lloman peojfie the delicious Falernian wine he allotted to his favourite horse.147 The ladies ventured, in the first place, to wet their lips with a few drops of those light wines which the sun seemed to ripen for them at Tibur, in the environs of Cumae, and throughout Campania.148 After a short time, they braved the Falernian itself—true, they generally mixed it with iced water or snow;149 but the boldest are reported to have risked that dangerous liquor without taking such timid precautions. Falernian was a noble wine! They began to drink it as soon as it had reached its tenth year. Then it was possible to bear up against it. When it was tweuty years old, it could only be mastered after it was diluted with water. If older, it was unconquerable; it attacked the nerves, and caused excruciating headache.150 The ladies struggled a long time for the victory; but, alas! the Falernian always had the best of it. Tired out, at length, with so many useless efforts, the Avisest of them left it to then husbands, and sought other beverages which possessed less dan- gerous charms. Greece and Italy invented neAv drinks for them, which had a well-merited vogue, notwithstanding the discredit into which they have fallen for many centuries past. Our modern beauties would smile with an air of incredulity if Ave were to extol asparagus wine, winter savory Avine, wild marjoram wine, parsley seed Avine, or those made from mint, rue, pennyroyal, and wild thyme; and yet these liquors Avere the delectable drinks of the most distinguished Avomen of ancient Home, of those women Avho could never find in the culinary productions of the entire universe anything sufficiently delicate or rare. Are Ave, then, to blame their taste, or question our own ? Leaving aside this knotty question, which we do not feel ourselves called upon to resolve, let us state that these different drinks were pre- pared in a very simple manner. Tavo handfuls of one of the above- named plants Avere put into a butt of Avort; a pint of sapa and half a pint of sea-Avater Avere added.151 This Avine Avas drunk by the Greek and Roman ladies at breakfast,152 and was an excellent substitute for the fiilatum, a drink prepared Avilh ochre, and Avhich avo can hardly believe to have been introduced by sensuality alone.153 It frequently happened, after a banquet, that the Avearied and palled