Cancers invading Bone. 393 only to open again in a similar way after another interval. Three years hefore admission to the Royal Infirmary, the nicer had again broken out. Numerous pieces of bone had come away, and the tibia suddenly snapped one day as he was trying to walk. The sore had a most foetid odour, and was covered by masses of thickened epithelium, with here and there florid granulations which microscopically showed the characters of epithelioma. The tibia, opposite where the ulcer was, is irregularly eroded and destroyed, a result probably due partly to the old-standing osteo-myelitis, as well as partly to the more recent epithelioma. The fibula is greatly thickened near the site of the ulcer, as usually occurs in such cases, but both bones are somewhat lightened in texture, possibly owing to the comparative disuse of the limb. G. C. 2794. b. Presented by John Duncan, F.R.C.S.E., 1888. 6.466. Epithelioma and Chronic Suppuration, eroding and destroying" the Tibia.—Cast in glue and glycerine of the limb in the previous case, after amputation, showing the appearance of the epitheliomatous ulcer. G. C. 2794. Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E. 6. 467. Epithelioma penetrating and eroding the Tibia.— Lower two-thirds of a left tibia and fibula, soft parts partly removed—in spirit, illustrating the above. July 1825.—"The patient, a man, aged 35, reported that the disease commenced 20 years ago after the receipt of a contusion. Five years sub- sequently it healed, and remained so for ten years, when it again made its appearance. It has gradually increased since." " On the anterior part of the middle third of the left le<* there is a very extensive ulcer of the size of a hand's breadth, which has destroyed not only the integuments but part of the tibia, which is exposed and rou«h to the extent of an inch. The surface of the ulcer is very uneven • the granulations and discharge have a very unhealthy appearance. The secretion of pus is in large quantity. He complains of much pain, refer- able principally to the bone ; surrounding inflammation considerable (sic). His general health is very good." "1* August.—lb Allan to-day scraped the surface of the bone which he found to be very much diseased.