Fractures of the Skull. 49 " On the evening of the 17th inst. (February 1828) William Murray was admitted with a compound fracture of the skull, attended with very considerable depression of the bone. The patient was quite irrational, ■and very violent when any attempt was made to examine the wound in the forehead. This was enlarged in the course of the fracture, and a small portion of the bone which was completely detached from the con- tiguous parts was then removed. This gave room for the introduction of the levator, by which the remainder of the depressed portions lying transversely across the forehead were first elevated, and subsequently removed with a pair of tooth forceps, leaving an oblong aperture of about two inches in length by three-fourths of an inch in its greatest breadth. A small portion of the brain also made its escape through the wound, although the breach in the dura mater was not perceived at the time of the operation. "This patient instantly recovered his senses, and answered questions rationally ; he soon, however, lapsed into a state bordering on coma, was ■extremely averse to being disturbed, his pulse 126 and thready, his •extremities cold, and his respiration tranquil until the morning of the 18th, when it suddenly became stertorous. You saw him at the usual hour of visit evidently moribund, and he sank immediately afterwards, having survived the receipt of the injury not quite forty-eight hours. '' On the same evening you saw the head opened in the theatre. The fracture was found extending backwards from the two extreme points of the opening through both orbitar plates of the frontal bone, and passing transversely across the ethmoid behind the crista galli. Opposite to the fissures in the roof of either orbit the dura mater was found lacerated to a considerable extent, and portions of the brain protruding; its anterior lobes were found completely disorganised and broken down, and, what was remarkable, a distinct appearance of purulent matter was seen upon the tunica arachnoides covering each hemisphere of the brain, although the patient had survived the accident for so short a time, had lost a very considerable quantity of blood from the wound, and had manifested no inflammatory symptoms." (Sir G. BallingaU's Clinical Lectures, No. 3, p- 5') G. C. 1102. Presented by Sir George Ballingall. 26. Fracture Of the Skull.—Two portions of a parietal bone —macerated—from a case of fracture. One portion came away immediately after the accident, the other a "very considerable time " (some weeks ?) after. The edges of the larger portion show indications of having been separated by a process of granulation. G-. C. 1166. Presented by Professor James Russell. D