336 Diseases of Bone. 6. 350. Mycetoma or Fung-us Foot of India—Yellow Variety.—Foot of a Hindoo, aged 40, in section—mounted in spirit, to illustrate the above. "1877, July 7th.— Admitted into Hospital on the 21st June. States that about fourteen years ago a small movable tumour appeared over the joint of the right great toe. It gradually enlarged, and suddenly one day he found a small opening on its upper surface, which, on being squeezed, discharged blood and matter, and reddish grains like granules of soda Soon after, others of the same character appeared all over the dorsal aspect of the sole of the foot. When these button-like tubercles • were enlarging, pain was severe, and as soon as they burst and discharged their contents he obtained relief, which was absent so long as the tubercles were empty ; but as they began to enlarge, the pain also appeared, and gradually increased in severity with the enlargement Never worked in black cotton soil, was never pricked with a thorn, and has not suffered from guinea-worm." The foot, especially towards the front, has been enormously swollen, and the surface, especially of the dorsum, is studded over with rounded tubercles of varying size. The interior of the front of the foot has been converted into a large cavity which contained a clear fluid, and in which the metatarsal bones are lying macerated and loose, their substance being rarefied and more or less absorbed. The soft parts are tunnelled in various directions by channels leading from the interior to the tubercles on the surface, and containing in many places characteristic yellow granules. G- C. 2509. Presented by Surgeon Tyrrell, H.M. Madras Army. 6 351. Mycetoma or Fungus Foot of India-Yellow Variety.—Foot of a Hindoo, aged 45, in section—mounted in spirit, illustrating the above. " 1877 April 20&.-A professional beggar admitted yesterday lor the above which is of ten years' duration. It appears that at the be.intinc!'he noticed a white patch on the sole of the foot, whichwas can ed b°y the pressure of the stilts which he used in his professiona cZV After some years the patch presented a series o fissures from whkh a" glutinous discharge exuded, and which adhered to Ins sandals "After the application of the flesh of squirrels as a poultice, the fi™, enlarged and from them white sago-like grains were often dis- TaTged sSwt the border of the foot began to enlarge, and at the seat of th°e enlargement the tubercles or button-like projections so character-