vi Preface. Thomas Keith, on leaving Edinburgh for London, handed over to the Conservator a Series of Tumours illustrating his work in Abdominal Surgery. Dr Bryan C. Waller has presented to the College a collection of Specimens illustrating Medical Pathology, which he purchased from Dr Eutherford Haldane. Besides these, there have been added other smaller collec- tions, to which it does not seem necessary to refer in detail. The " Bell Collection " * was purchased from Mr, afterwards * The following account of the Bell Museum was published in 1819, while it was still in Great Windmill Street, London. Although many additions were made to it in the subsequent six years, the account is valuable aa a record of the mode of formation of the Museum :— " The formation of this Museum may be divided into three periods— that formed by Mr Wilson, that formed by Mr Bell, and the addition made during the last seven years. "Mr Bell's original Collection consisted of preparations, both of Natural and Morbid Anatomy. It was particularly valuable in Quicksilver Preparations; in Preparations of the Lymphatics; in Diseased Bones; in Diseases of the Bladder and Urethra; and in Models of Diseased Viscera. "The Collection of Mr Wilson was remarkable for the exquisitely neat manner in which the preparations had been dissected and preserved. Its value was principally in the complete Series of Preparations, exhibiting the Minute Structure, and arranged so as to correspond with the Lecture?. These must always form an important part of the Present Museum from their intrinsic value, as well as from the Maker, who learned his art under the celebrated Mr Cruickshank (the fine Collection of Mr Cruickshank was bought by the Empress of Russia), the Colleague of Dr Hunter. "By the arrangement betwixt Mr Wilson and Mr Bell, Mr Wilson's Preparations became the property of the latter, and the two Collections were united. Since that period, that is, in the last seven years, great additions have been made (not less than one-third of the whole). To the pupils of that period, it is not necessary to say that this has been done principally through the labours of Mr Shaw. Mr Shaw was a pupil of Mr Bell's at a very early age, and has continued making Preparations under him for eleven years."