381 Central Sarcomata. gravity. It, however, passed out of his hands into those of a female bone-setter, who did not improve matters by her attempt to set the so- called dislocation. The patient then returned to his first attendant, who sent him to the Infirmary, to be under Dr Joseph Bell's care. It was at once evident that nothing short of amputation of the arm, scapula, and greater part of the clavicle, would be of the slightest use. The tumour involved both supra- and sub-scapular regions, and pressed on the axilla. It was also adherent to the skin of the back. The operation was performed, and the boy made a good recovery from it, but died some months after from a return of the disease. The tumour, which seems to have grown from the scapula near the neck, has spread in all directions, and has infiltrated the adjacent muscles. q q 9^9g Presented by Joseph Bell, F.E.C.S.E., P.R.C.S. 442. Central Sarcoma of the Head of the Tibia — Section of the upper end of a left tibia-in spirit, illustrate the above. Jour months before admission to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh leftkne!6 ST ^ ~ ^ Mt * ^ * eft knee A swelling appeared, which was blistered without benefit then pou faced and incised, but only blood escaped. The pain returned nine weeks after the opening had healed. There was by this time a distinct hard lump, which gradually enlarged. On her admission o th lltZI'^ T fPtember' SWelIiQ* ^ mid^ between h fie fib, 1 tV ^ E half iDCLeS beW tte level of the head of the fibula but apparently unconnected with either bone. The swelling was blistered and then incised, but blood only escaped, and the w unf thus made raprdly fungated. Amputation aboveVe condy e Tat performed by Mr. Cathcart on 19th September 188S The patient left the Hospital apparently in good health and spirits A fewmo nth s afterwards, however, she became exceedingly peevili and fretful, and after emaciating rapidly, died with symptoms of a cerebral umour. No post-mortem examination was obtained, but a L nd " deposxt of the tumour had probably attacked the brain. secondary The section shows a soft tumour invading and replacing he cancellous tissue of the head of the tibia and infiltrating the soft textures outside. q q 9g04 ° Presented by Charles W. Cathcaet, F.R.C.S.E.