Diseases of Connective Tissue. 560 9. 51. Large Sarcoma.—Plaster of Paris cast of what has probably been the tumour from which the previous specimen was obtained. G. C. 565. 9. 52. Sarcoma Of Forearm.—Section of a large fungating tumour—in spirit, growing from the fasciae of the forearm. It protruded through the skin, and appeared as a large cauli- flower-like bleeding fungus. The cut surface, although with some fibrous-like interstices, is comparatively uniform. The muscles below the fasciae do not seem involved. G. C. 184. Presented % Wm. Newbigging, F.R.C.S.E., and Professor J. W. Turner. 9. 53. Sarcoma Of Forearm.—Portion of a fungating sarcoma of the right forearm—injected with vermilion, and in spirit. "The patient was a woman 47 years of age. About three years before she came under Dr. Brown's care she perceived a small tumour, the bulk of a common garden-pea, underneath the skin of the back of the forearm, a little above the wrist, which was quite movable. It increased gradually to the size of a hen's egg, in which state it remained for two years. After this period it increased rapidly, and she was advised to get it removed. The operation was performed and the wound healed up, excepting a spot about the size of a shilling, which was suddenly affected with a violent stinging pain. The surface of this ulcer began to be elevated above the surface of the adjacent skin, and increased after that time, so as to attain the size of the tumour represented in the plate " (see Cast, No. 9. 54). . . . " The whole mass resembled, in a very remarkable degree, a portion of brain—in colour, consistence, and every external character ; and as the arm was injected with coloured size, many vessels could be traced through the substance of the tumour, being a strong proof of its organisa- tion. It became also like brain, softer by exposure to the air, and readily mixed with water. It appeared to be composed of several distinct portions, separated from one another by thin membranous partitions."— From Observations on "Fungus Hfeinatodes, or Soft Cancer," &c, with Cases and Dissections by James Wardrop, F.R.S.E., F.K.C.S.E., &c, 1809, pages 107-109.