562 Diseases of Connective Tissue. It grew upon the buttock of a girl about 12 years of age. It pro- jected in the form of a rounded fungus of a dirty red colour, the surface of which occasionally peeled off and bled profusely. After it was extirpated,, the wound cicatrised and remained sound, hut in about two months a deep-seated tumour suddenly appeared in the groin, attended with severe pain. This grew rapidly to a large size, dipping towards the abdomen. The leg became cedematous, and the patient died. The tumour is composed of numerous septa of delicate connective tissue, enclosing small lobules of a soft material. G. C. 920. Recurrent Fibroid Tumours. 9, 58. Recurrent Fibroid Tumour of the Loin.—Section of a tumour with a cicatrix in the overlying skin, removed from the loin of a young woman for the third time—in spirit. The following notes of the case are taken from Professor Spence's- Snrgery, vol. i. 2nd edition, page 186. "Jane Easton first consulted the late Dr Maclagan in the year 1832. At that time she was 22 years of age, and applied for advice in consequence of a tumour of some three years' growth, situated in the left lumbar region, about one inch from the spine. It was about the size of a jargonelle° pear, firm, but elastic in consistence, and freely movable. Below the tumour the skin for some little distance was indurated. The- tumour, and also the adjoining diseased skin, were removed, and the growth was on examination found to present the ordinary characters of a simple fibrous tumour. About a year afterwards, however, a recurrence of the- growth took place, in the form of three small tumours, situated in the cicatrix, resulting from the former operation. These tumours, together with the scar, were thoroughly removed by Dr Douglas Maclagan in 1S34 ;. but again, 18 months later, the growth for the third time appeared in the same situation as before. After increasing in bulk for a year and a half, this was also removed by Dr D. Maclagan, and was found to posses* the same firmness and elasticity, and to present the same semi-transparent pinkish-grey colour as was noticed in the original tumour." About twenty years afterwards, i.e. March 1857, she was seen by . Professor Spence, on account of another tumour, 2J in. long, li broad,, and H in. at its thickest part. This tumour had grown for a year in the old cicatrix. It was of an elastic nature, and had a pinkish translucent appearance at the surface. It was freely removed, along with the adjacent lumbar fascise and surrounding scar, and there was no return. In 1S6S the patient again came under Professor Spence's care for a firm, fibrous tumour of the right mamma, of about the size of a small half melon. This and the mamma were removed, and she made a good recovery. Od