390 Diseases of Bone. Section of the lower end of the same humerus as the last—in spirit, illustrating the above. The tumour growth can he recognised passing down the medulla towards the elbow. G- C. 336. Presented by William Newbigging, F.R.C.S.E. 6. 462. Sarcoma of the Humerus, following- Fracture — Part of the soft portion of the previous tumour, with adjacent muscles—in spirit. " Its tissue is medulliform, interspersed with bony spicules and nodules of cartilage." The muscles are being infiltrated all round; at one place in the interior, the tumour is breaking down. G- C- 335' 6. 463. Sarcoma invading- the Tibia.—Upper part of the left leg of a young man—in spirit, illustrating the above. "This young man was a sailor, and three months before the appearance of the tumour of the leg, he received a blow on the upper part of the shin by the recoil of a gun. He does not attribute the growth of the tumour to this hurt, and it was only by questioning him as to all probable causes that this circumstance was brought to his recollection. The tumour extends from the middle of the tibia to the tendinous insertion of the patella into that bone. It surrounds the tibia and the head of the fibula, and evidently goes round to the back of the bones, for it has distended the gastro-cnemius and the soleus muscles. Its surface is distinguished by seven or eight distinct knobs or tubercles which are soft or yielding, and give no indication of solidity or ot scirrhous hardness. The tubercles on the lower part of the tumour have more firmness and solidity than these above. The surface is of a dark reddish colour ; the centre of the tubercles being of a yellowish colour, but crossed with numerous small veins, which give a venous or purplish- tinge. The tumour has been two months of acquiring its present magni- tude, and is not accompanied with pain. . . , " When this young man had been a few days in the Hospital, and when I had ascertained the disease to be that most mortal of tumours, the fungus tumour, called soft cancer, I informed him of his danger He was surprised that I should consider it so seriously, but threw himself entirely ■ into n v hands. In these circumstances such confidence only adds to the