Ghtnshot Fractures of the Femur. 177 condition—pus was discharging copiously from the wound on the outside of the thigh, and it was with difficulty that the long splint could be kept applied. No union whatever seemed to have taken place, which opinion was confirmed on the 22nd by making an examination while the patient ■was under chloroform. As the patient was getting every day weaker, the limb was amputated on the 23rd, above the seat of fracture. Although still weak, he continued to improve for two weeks, and hopes were entertained that he would do well. Unfortunately, hectic fever came on, and he sank about a month after the amputation." (Vide "Edinburgh Medical Journal," January 1857.) The fracture has been about the middle of the shaft, and the bone has been severely comminuted. Upon two of the fragments, at the outer side, there is the appearance of a circular aperture, possibly where the bone was struck. These two fragments, as well as others near, have necrosed, and have been separated from the surrounding bone by granulation. Upon the main piece of the shaft, near the seat of fracture, a few spicules of necrosis in process of separation are seen, and also an irregular crust of periosteal bone, which in some places is heaped up to a considerable height. q. q 2415 Presented by David Greig, F.R.C.S.E., Dundee. GUNSHOT FRACTURES FROM THE AMERICAN WAR, 1861-1865. Th'.following twelve specimens were obtained from the battle-fields of Manassas tnraianir < "* to «• ^seumijZZ0n. General Bi^ngs, Superintendent of the Army Medical Museum, WashlZ rhey may be considered typical specimens of their kind illustratL Z 7 \ juries produced by rifle bullets in the late American IvJ " °f 3. 379 Gunshot Fracture of the Shaft of a Femur.-Lower half of a right femur comminuted aW the condyles_macerated tne fragments wired together. There is an oval aperture on the front, about three inches above he level of the condyles, with its edges somewhat bevelled internally and sharp externally. On the posterior aspect is another irregular aperture, at a higher level, and further out than the other, and with its margins bevelled externally The bone in the neighbourhood is broken up into numerous