Central Sarcomata. 383 On the 29th July (at 11.30 a.m.) patient was lying on his back in bed, with his left leg drawn up. He was in the act of turning on his side, when he felt the thigh give a great crack in its upper third. The pain was intense, causing him to 1' roar out " at the time, and it remained severe for some time afterwards. On the morning before the crack, the patient had noticed a slight diffuse swelling of the thigh. After the crack the swelling quickly increased, till in three' days it had reached its full size. At this time several injections of morphia were given, and the thigh was rubbed well with a liniment. The pain gradually decreased, and on 13th August he was free from pain, except when he gave the leg a jerk. On the 18th and 19th August he had slight sciatica pains in his foot. On 21st August au exploratory incision was made, and the previous diagnosis of sarcoma of bone was confirmed. On 25th August Mr Cathcart amputated at the hip-joint. The patient bore chloroform badly, and had to be stimulated several times with ether. Comparatively little blood was lost, and the patient did fairly well until 7.30 p.m., when he began to collapse, and died at 11 p.m. The section shows that the tumour must have hegun in the centre, just below the level of the great trochanter, where the bone is destroyed. It has extended down the medulla, and upwards into the cancellous tissue, but its chief growth has been outside the bone, entirely surrounding it, and infiltrating the adjacent muscles, although at places there is an appearance of a capsule. The upper fracture must have been the spon- taneous one recorded in the history. The lower fracture was accidentally produced in sawing the specimen, but the bone was greatly weakened there by the disease. The substance of the tumour, when fresh, had a consistence and appearance like the white substance of the brain, except that at certain places it was more vascular. Microscopically, this is a large round-celled sarcoma; formerly it would have been called an "encephaloid Cancer-" G. C. 3322. Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E. 1.6. Central Large Round-celled Sarcoma of the Upper End Of the Femur.—Water-colour drawing of .the above tumour when fresh, by John T. Kelly, artist. G. C. 3321.