206 Diseases of Bone. hemiplegia occurring in infancy, together with uninterrupted recumbency in bed for nearly thirty years. Those features specially connected with the hemiplegia show themselves, especially in the bones of the right arm and leg, and to a very much less extent in the trunk; those features resulting from the recumbency and disuse are superadded to the former on the right side, but are also present in those of the left. In the trunk there is no apparent asymmetry apart from the scoliosis. Those on the paralysed side do not suffer by comparison with those on the side which retained the power of movement. The spinal column exhibits a type of curvature seldom met with, and in all probability only developed under condi- tions present in this case, i.e. paralysis of one side plus recum- bency. That little movement took place during life is evidenced by the bony union of certain of the laminae. The thorax has altered during the preparation of the specimen; it was scarcely, if at all, involved in the scoliosis; it was well formed, beyond a moderate flattening from before backwards. The pelvis, of the female type, is most notably wasted and thinned; its diameters considerably altered. The bones of the extremities are on both sides small, thin, and light, deficient in ridges and marks for muscular attachment, present a fairly developed cortical layer in the shafts of the long bones; the medulla and spongiosa very small m amount. The articular ends of the long bones and the short bones (e.g. tarsus) have but a thin and imperfect cortex, capable of being indented with the finger-nail. The ends of the long bones also present alterations resulting from the deformities to be presently described. Those on the right (or paralysed) side not only present the above features in a greater degree, but show evidences of the nerve lesion. They are distinctly shorter. This, as shown by measurement, varies in the different bones. It is most pro- nounced in the following bones, and in the order given humerus, femur, fibula, radius, ulna, tibia, clavicle. It