Bone Abscess. 245 below upwards, apparently unconnected with it. The integu- ments were everywhere sound. On the anterior and somewhat inner aspect of the limb a circular opening, rather more than an inch in diameter, led into the interior of the bony case. The integuments passed into the opening for a short way, passing insensibly into a soft mucous-looking membrane lining the whole interior of the osseous case, and seemingly occupying the centre of the tibia. These facts were observed before any dissection, on merely removing the plug mentioned in the case above, which the patient used to insert and withdraw at pleasure, so as to allow of the escape of matter and the washing out of the cavity. On dissecting the limb, these conjectures, as far as they regarded the nature of the tumour, were found to be correct. A section of the tibia in its long axis showed the upper part of the tibia dilated into an enormous cavity, capacious enough to contain sixteen and a half ounces of fluid,' lined throughout by the membrane already spoken of, and communicating externally by means of the aperture, which the patient was in the habit of plugging up. The lower portion of •the tibia was quite sound, and scarcely, if at all, altered from its natural appearance. The medullary cavity of this sound portion did not communicate with the diseased cavity above *or do the walls of the cavity itself present any very remarkable or diseased appearance, and they are of considerable thickness Of the surrounding soft parts-muscles, nerves, arteries, etc -it may be said that they were perfectly healthy. The muscles which ran over the tumour were put greatly on the stretch, but in all respects quite healthy. Indeed, the change affecting the tibia was limited entirely to itself, nor did the periosteum covering it show any diseased appearance or change of structure." The following points may be noted on this macerated portion. The inner wall of the cavity presents a surface formed of opened-out, carious-looking bone, showing at some places necrotic and almost loose portions, and at others irregu- ar pockets, probably resulting from the separation of necrosed fragments. The wall of the cavity, which varies from one-