513 Lateral Curvature of the Spine. is to the left, and its maximum about the eighth dorsal vertebra. There are also compensating curves to the right in the upper dorsal and lumbar regions respectively. The rotation of the bodies of the vertebras towards the convexity is well shown, and in the main curve to the left the corresponding changes in the ribs are also well marked. Thus there is a projection of the angles backwards at the convexities, i.e. below on the left and above on the right; and a flattening of the angles at the concave portions, i.e. below on the right and above on the left. It should be noted, however, that the ribs at the convexity or left side below are not separated, but are rather thrown together. This may be due to the effect of the pressure of the ribs from above. Figured by Shaw "on Distortion," plate 1, fig. 3, "as a less frequent form of lateral curvature combined with stoop, caused by standing or sitting in a bent position." B. C. 1. 3, M. 8. .215. Advanced Lateral Curvature of the Spine.—Spinal column, from third cervical vertebra downwards, with pelvis —partly macerated, illustrating the above. There is a series of alternating lateral curves, i.e. to the left in the upper dorsal and in the lumbar region, and to the right in the mid-dorsal and in the cervical region. The spine, as a whole, is bent forwards, and the normal curves are as usual diminished. The usual rotation of the bodies towards the con- vexity is best seen in the strong curve to the right in the mid- dorsal region. A development of bone at the inter-vertebral borders from arthritis deformans is well seen on the left side of the eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal, and first lumbal' vertebras ; and on the right side of the second and third lumbal' vertebras. Figured by Shaw " on Distortion of the Spine," as a " Serpentine Curve," plate 1, fig. 2. W. C. G. 14. 216. Advanced Lateral Curvature.—Spinal column from the fourth cei I v. rtebra downwards, with the pelvis and thorax —partly m rated, illustrating the above 2 K