204 Diseases of Bone. following- Anchylosis from Rheumatism.—Bones of a right leg and foot, soft parts cleaned off—dried, to show the above. D. W., aged 18 years, was troubled with pains in the joints of his right foot at the age of 10. Shortly after this he was confined to bed for three months with a "fever" (probably rheumatic), which affected all the joints of his body. Two years later he had a relapse of the same fever, with implication of most of his joints, especially those of the right foot. Since then he has had several similar attacks, and, with the exception of the sterno-clavicular and temporo-maxillary, all the joints of his body have become deformed and more or less rigid. He has thus been completely crippled and helpless, even in bed. The right knee was excised on 10th May, but as the operation was unsuccessful, Professor Annandale performed amputation above the kuee on 24th July. The muscles of the leg, although greatly diminished in bulk, were of a fairly good colour. The periosteum stripped off very easily. The shafts of the tibia and fibula are much reduced in thickness, and the muscular markings are slight. The compact tissue is hard, but the cancellous tissue at the articular ends of the long bones and in the tarsal bones is extremely soft and fatty, and is surrounded by a scale of bone so thin and soft that it yields to the slightest pressure, and can be cut with the finger-nail. The joints of the ankle and tarsus are all anchylosed by bone, as are also those of the metatarsus, except that of the first metatarsal bone. The joint between the first and second phalanges of the great toe is anchy- losed, but all the other phalangeal joints have a certain amount of movement. G- C- 3581 • Presented by Professor T. Annandale, F.R.C.S.E. 6. 15. Atrophy and Alteration in the Bones of the Foot, following- Injury.—Section of the bones of a right foot- macerated, showing the above. The patient was a middle-aged man. Early in life his foot had been injured, and great distortion resulted (see G. C. 2818). The skin had been greatly destroyed, and an ulcer which appeared on the heel broke out from time to time, and caused so much inconvenience that on account of it the foot was at last amputated.