62 Injuries of Bone. Skull of a young adult—macerated—to show a bullet wound and trephine opening in the left frontal region. 1' The hall struck this soldier on the sphenoidal angle of the frontal bone. It fractured the bone into small pieces. These were picked away, and a question arose whether or not the ball had entered. The dura mater was entire. It had not, then, entered the cavity, and an examina- tion being made with the probe under the skull, the ball was discovered lodged above the left eye. Calculation being made of its exact distance from the place of the fracture, the trephine was applied there, and the ball extracted. The portion of the bone cut out by the trephine is attached to the skull, and the ball is replaced. The ball is flattened in that manner to give the idea of its only being half a ball. The man died of suppuration in the brain." The piece of bone and the ball alluded to in Sir Charles Bell's account of the case have been mislaid or lost. The upper left canine tooth is retained within the alveolus in this skull. B. C. xvn. 1. 3. 57. Old-standing" Pistol Shot Fracture of the Skull.— Skull of an aboriginal Australian from Upper Brisbane, Queensland, Moreton district—macerated—showing an old- standing injury in the right frontal region. "While uncivilised, this man was shot in the head by a squatter at 60 yards distance (size of bullet, No. 12). The ball penetrated just above the right supraciliary ridge, and destroyed part of the roof of the orbit, where it seems to have been lodged. For two weeks the man suffered from paroxysms of intense pain. The bullet was then spontan- eously discharged, along with much pus, and he soon recovered. For the next seven years until his death he acted as a shepherd, and was very intelligent for a native. During three years he suffered from a dull headache more or less constant. He was killed in a quarrel with another native." The skull is very heavy and thick, and the bony ridges are strongly marked. C. 2531. Presented by Forbes, Esq. 3. 58. Sabre Wounds of the Skull.—Skull of a young adult, showing sabre cuts behind the vertex. It was picked up on the field of the battle of the Pyramids. There are three parallel cuts in the back of the skull, and