Gunshot Fractures of the Femur. 167 The back of the inner condyle is wanting, and a circular depression above it indicates where the bullet lay. Portions of the bone which formed the bed of the bullet have necrosed, and have been in process of separation. The joint had evidently been acutely inflamed, and the articular surfaces have been eroded. There is a small crust of new periosteal bone above and behind the condyles. F. P. C. 240. Presented by Professor John Thomson. 3. 348. Bullet lodged in the Condyles of the Femur.— Lower end of a femur—with the patella and adjacent parts of tibia and fibula dissected, and a section removed from the outer condyle to illustrate the above—in spirit. A Russian General, Baron Driesen, was struck by a musket-ball on the inner condyle of the left femur at the battle of Borodino on the 6th of September 1812. The ball lodged near the outer condyle. Inflammation and suppuration followed, causing great pain. Various attempts were made to remove the ball by dilating the wound with sponge tents but without success. During 1815 and until March 1816 the wound remained closed. At this time the parts became greatly swollen and very painful, the old wound reopened, and an abscess on the outer side was evacuated. Some improvement followed, and a German surgeon poured large quan- tities of mercury into the sinus in the hope of dissolving the bullet. This was followed by intense pain and numerous abscesses round the knee- joint. As these symptoms continued, the limb was amputated above the knee by Sir Charles Bell on the 7th of January 1817. For a time considerable pain and swelling remained in the stump, but these gradually subsided, and the Baron left London for St Petersburg in May of the same year. Sir Charles Bell found mercury lodged in different abscesses round the joint and inflammatory thickening round the popliteal nerves. Tho patella, femur, and tibia were anchylosed by bone. An encrustation round the bullet has obscured its metallic character, but indicates its position. (See Bell's "Surgical Observations," p. 431.) B. C. xvu. 38. . 349. Bullet lodged in the Condyles of the Femur.— Section removed from the foregoing specimen—macerated.