Tubercular Disease of the Spine. 521 forward, and the spine of the axis been rendered prominent. This has probably been a case where an abscess connected with the axis has been opened, and turned septic, and having dis- charged for some time before death, has led by its irritation to the new bone formation. G. C. 1182. Presented by Professor James Russell. 7. 230. Tubercular Disease, with Caseous Deposit between the Bone and the Dura Mater.—Axis and four following cervical vertebrse. Spinal canal exposed from behind—in spirit, illustrating the above. On the right side the articular processes have been some- what enlarged, and their surfaces are rarefied. Caseous-looking material occupies the intervals between the pedicles, and has formed a thick layer on the outer surface of the dura mater. This condition is not very common. When such an accumulation increases, it may cause paralysis by pressure upon the spinal cord. It then constitutes the form of "pressure paralysis " in Potts' Disease, which is most amenable to surgical interference. G. C. 3503. 7. 231. Tubercular Disease—Destruction of Bodies—Para- plegia.—Upper three dorsal and lower six cervical vertebras of a child—macerated, illustrating the above. "Isabella Rennie, aged ten, died 30th November 1831. She was considered a healthy child till about two years before, when she began to have glandular swellings in different parts of the body. In March a small swelling appeared in the upper part of her back. This gradually enlarged, and at the same time her power of moving her legs diminished. At length she lost this power entirely, and also the sensibility of the whole lower part of the body. She had, however, occasional attacks of convulsions in the legs, which caused much pain. She could not retain her urine, but her bowels had always to be assisted by purgations. She gradually declined in health, was subject to violent catarrhal attacks, and gangrene of the hip from pressure became very deep and extensive. The exterior surface of the joint was thus laid bare.