Caries from Pus-forming Organisms. 237 trochanter has been reduced to a thin shell, existing only on the outer side. This has been fractured, possibly in the process of preparation. Below the seat of fracture some new periosteal bone has been thrown out on the surface. This has evidently been a case of advancing septic inflammation. B. C. 2. M. 4. 86. Acute Suppurative Inflammation of the Cranium.— Lower half of a cranium, lower jaw and first three cervical vertebras—macerated, showing the above. The patient, an old lady aged 75 years, had suffered from a most severe attack of erysipelas of the face and head, accompanied by very great oedema and swelling of the soft parts, and followed by their destruc- tion. Caries soon occurred on the mastoid process, and rapidly spread to the neighbouring bone. Ere long the carotid artery was laid bare, and was seen pulsating against a sharp portion of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It ruptured in a day or two, and fearful hemorrhage occurred. Dr Foulis at once stuffed up the large hole which had been formed in the side of the head by the destruction of the soft parts and bone with a lump of cotton wadding. This stopped the bleeding, and the lady lived for four days afterwards. The squamous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone, with the great wing and outer ptergyoid plate of the sphenoid as well as the condyle of the lower jaw, have disappeared. The surfaces of bone which lay next to the missing parts are rarefied and absorbed. The vertebras have evidently been injured in being removed, but parts of their surface have also been attacked by the disease. q q 2647 Presented by James Foulis, M.D. 87. Acute Suppurative Inflammation of the Sternum leading- to Destruction.—Lower end of a sternum and costal cartilages, showing the above. The specimen was obtained from a patient who died in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, in 1824, after a head injury, for which trephining had been performed. The cause of death was therefore probably pytemia in the course of which an abscess had formed in the sternum