Periosteal Sarcomata. 373 "20th.— He has had a restless night; his pulse is quick (100), and lis tongue white ; he was attacked with a rigour, which has been suc- ceeded with heat. He is very sick and cannot retain anything on his ■stomach, and his countenance is sunk. " Observations at evening lecture.—You have seen that I examined this patient very particularly to-day, and indeed his situation is very interesting; you may have seen that the stump looks well, the ligatures long since removed, and the wound contracted. There does not seem, therefore, any source of irritation in the stump. Whence then arises his present condition ? He daily wastes away, and is very thin : he has shivermgs followed with flushes ; his tongue is white, and he is covered with perspiration, and there is a slight yellow tinge on his skin. Such an attack will sometimes precede the opening and disorder of a stump about the ninth day after the operation ; or the patients in Hospital will be affected by the crowded state of the house. I wish I could so consider the present attack, but I fear it is from another cause-from the irritation of internal disease." These symptoms increased, with the addition of pains in the right side and heaviness in the stomach. The patient gradually sank and died on the 24th. "Post-mortem.-^ right side of the liver was much enlarged, and the surface was like variegated marble. There were spots of a bright yellow colour, from the size of a pin's head to that of the point of the linger. These spots were in clusters, and such parts of the liver felt soft and around these spots there was a vascular structure, deeply stained with blood Similar spots of disease were seen on the lungs, and some of these ^ere of a vascular, soft texture, having the peculiar substance of the soft cancer intervening." Although the tumour is stated to have begun within, it seems more probably to have begun in the periosteum, 'in contrast to the healthy texture of the lower end of the femur, the tibia has a condensed appearance, from its cancelli bein* filled with tumour substance. This has been observed in almost all the preceding periosteal tumours, and is quite different from the destructive changes produced by a central tumour growing at an equal rate with this one. The surface of the tibia has been attacked by the tumour. Without maceration, it cannot be said what amount of new bone, if any has been formed; but even if there were little or none, this would still be in keeping with a periosteal tumour which had crown very rapidly. £• C 1. 6 M. 25.