The Limbs as a Whole. 592 The discoloured and sloughy condition of the great toe is well seen, but the discolouration which existed upon the other toes and on the dorsum of the foot has been removed by the spirit. The arteries were injected with vermilion and tallow. The injection has run down the anterior tibial artery as far as the dorsum of the foot, but beyond that only a little has been able to penetrate. The coat of the anterior tibial artery is atheromatous and filled with calcareous plates the whole way. On the posterior aspect, the injection has penetrated only to the level of the upper third of the leg, in the posterior tibial artery, and to about the middle of the leg in the peroneal artery. Beyond these points both vessels are so much con- tracted that the injection could not flow in them. Their coats- are studded with calcareous plates in a manner very similar to that found in the anterior tibial artery. It may be noted, more- over, that the parts near the anterior tibial artery have received the injection down to, although not beyond, the ankle, whereas the injection posteriorly has only reached as far as the middle of the calf. G. C. 3148. Presented by A. G. Miller, F.R.C.S.E., 1890. 11. 71. Advancing- Moist Senile Gangrene of Foot.—Left foot and greater part of a leg, blood-vessels dissected—in spirit, illustrating the above. The patient was a man, aged 70. The condition began in the great toe, and it was amputated. The mischief returned, and he had a slowly increasing septic absorption from inflammation and suppuration of the foot, with great pain and sleeplessness. The leg was amputated below the knee, but the patient died three or four days afterwards. There was little or no bleeding from the vessels at the operation, probably because they were blocked near the bifurcation of the popliteal artery. On dissecting out the arteries, the posterior tibial was found to be obliterated at its upper end by what seems to have been an old-standing clot, now apparently incorporated with the walls of the vessel. Below that point the vessel has