345 Sarcoviatous Cartilaginous Tumours. By 17th December his general condition and blood had consider- ably improved under treatment, and Dr Watson decided to remove the arm, scapula, outer third of the clavicle along with the tumour, as the only possible means of affording relief to the patient's intense sufferings. He was in a state of constant acute suffering, and could not retain the arm for five minutes in one position. The pain prevented the possibility of sleep for more than three minutes at a time, and he had not slept an hour for many weeks. He had quite a cachetic appearance. At this time the tumour of the right scapula rose as a great hump above the line of his shoulder. It was incorporated with the scapula and adjacent parts. It was firm in consistence in some places, and soft and almost fluctuating in others. There were also multiple growths, like small apples and firm in consistence, on the metacarpal and phalangeal bones of both hands. The knees were rigidly semi-flexed, and the patient had scarcely any power over his lower limbs, the muscles of which were much atro- phied. The thighs and calves felt brawny. Dr Watson operated on 17th December 1883, and the wound healed without a bad symptom. Although he made a capital recovery as to wound, he only slowly recovered the use of his legs, by the use of rubbing, the "battery'' and extension at night to straighten the knees. On 6th April 1884 his general health was good, but as he was still unable to use his legs, much the same treatment was continued. On 20th June 1884 a photograph of the cicatrix was taken. He could then walk with help and his health was good. During July and August he walked fairly well and went to the country. In September, on his return, he did not look so well his colour being dusky. In November 1884 Dr Bum Murdoch was called to attend him for pains in his chest on the right side, with short- ness of breath and cough. Some pleuritic rubbing was heard, and a copious effusion into both right and left pleural cavities was detected He died shortly afterwards, in November 1884, from obstruction to respira- tion ana increasing weakness. ^^.-The chest (both sides) was full of fluid, and both lungs were studded over with hard and semi-hard nodular masses. One or two nodules of a similar nature were found on the internal surface of the ribs. (Permission had been given to examine the chest only.) The fingers are disfigured by numerous simple cartilaginous tumours of the usual character. A section of one has been made to show its structure. The firm lobulated cartilaginous substance mterspersed with calcareous and osseous nodules, is characteristic of the slow-growing simple chondroma. A somewhat similar tumour can be seen growing from the outer condyle of the humerus, as well as from the adjacent portions of the bone The tumour on the scapula has been sliced in one or two places