Diseases of Joints. 456 Necrosis in the Head of the Tibia.—Bones of the right knee-joint of an adult, separated from hehind to expose the articular surfaces from the back—in spirit. The joint was from a patient in the Royal Infirmary, 50 years of age, who recovered after amputation of the limb. He had fallen into the hold of a ship 38 years previously, by which he received a severe injury of the knee—swelling, pain, stiffness, and abscesses about the joint followed. These abated, but left the joint quite stiff and bent at a right angle. Four months before he came to the hospital, abscesses again formed, attended with considerable constitutional disturbance. One of these left an external opening into the joint. The joint has evidently been flexed, and the patella is anchylosed to the under surface of the outer condyle. The posterior part of the outer condyle is wanting, and the place of the bone in the neighbourhood is taken by fibrous tissue. The articular surfaces on the back of the inner condyle and the inner tuberosity of the tibia are comparatively unchanged, but the articular surface of the outer tuberosity of the tibia is represented partly by a large necrosed fragment, and partly by fibrous tissue. G. C. 2230. Presented by Alexander "Watson, F.R.C.S.E., 1836. 7.78. Tubercular Arthritis breaking- out after Sub- sidence.—Inner section of the bones forming the right knee- joint of a woman—in spirit, showing the fatty and absorbed state of the bone, and altered articular surface. Emma M., 9 years before operation, fell and hurt her knee, which became swollen, but otherwise did not trouble her for 8 years. Last year it caused her some inconvenience, and having fomented it without effect, she was admitted to Ward 14, and remained there for about seven weeks. Her leg was first put in splints, then blistered, and afterwards extension was applied, the knee, however, getting worse all the time. She then went home, and painted it with iodine, without much improve- ment. "When admitted to Ward 17, the knee was painful, and greatly swollen, especially on the inner side. Three days after admission tho l«g was amputated, and she made a good recovery. The tibia has been partly dislocated backwards from the femur. Fibrous tissue has formed above the patella, and at