409 Tumours of Facial Bones. Part of the face and skull of an adult, probably a woman—in spirit, illustrating the above. A malignant tumour has invaded the superior maxillae and adjacent parts, extending into both orbits and the nasal cavity, and involving the left anterior and middle fossae of the skull. G. C. 1908. Presented by The Medical Officers of Leith Dispensary. 6. 506. Malignant Disease of Facial and Cranial Bones.— Portion of the bones of the face and skull of a woman—in spirit, illustrating the above. "About four years ago the woman, Susanna Todd, aged 39, had a small tumour of the size of half a hazel-nut on the gum over the first molaris of the upper jaw. It continued to increase for two years. At this time a medical gentleman thrust his lance into it, but nothing but blood flowed from it. The wound did not heal, and from that time the tumour rapidly increased for the space of a year, bleeding from time to time. She observes that these bleedings always relieved her, so that she was at this time suffering pain. The tumour had now enlarged the alveolar process, and appeared as a tumour on the cheek. She went into Hospital, and they drew two of the molares, and cut away a portion of the gum ; but she derived no further advantage from this than that for a time she was freed from the portion of the tumour which projected into the mouth and plagued her in eating. She was eight months in the Hospital. While she was attending there, they thrust a probe into her nostrils, to which she attributes the blindness of the left eye; but this is evidently a fancy of hers. "From the Hospital she was carried to the workhouse, and nothing further took place but the gradual increase of the tumour, which about three weeks ago produced a dimness of vision in the left eye, and in three days the sight was totally lost. " She has now a large tumour of the whole left cheek, which appears like an irregular swelling of all the bones of the face. The alveolar processes are much enlarged, and project so that the upper jaw shoots far outbefore the range of the lower jaw. The tumour extends from the base of the lower jaw to the inner canthns of the right eye : it presses in upon the orbit, and has, in some degree, displaced the left eye. It has thrust the nose aside also; a fungous irregular tumour occupies the whole of the left side of the mouth and affects all the palate : it has shot back into the fauces, and presses upon the mouth of the Eustachian tube of the left side. " March 15.—The tumour has considerably increased, for although it be flatter at the lower part of the cheek towards the eye, it is enlarged,