Discuses of Bone. 212 The skull is well shaped, with the hones somewhat irregularly thickened, although to a less degree than in the pre- vious specimen. The spine and thorax, as well as the scapula? and clavicles, show no marked change. The humeri are very irregular and short, with great development of the ridges, especially that of the deltoid, and marked prominence of the inner condyles. The hones of the fore-arm are small and some- what bent forward, especially on the right side, with an exaggeration of most of the bony ridges, and an enlargement of the lower ends of the radii. The pelvis, as already noted, Ls markedly flattened and rickety. The lower limbs are crossed. The femora are short, and have an outward bend at the upper end. The great trochanters are above the level of the head. The lower ends are enlarged, and the linea aspera are unusually prominent. The tibiae and fibulas are in their crossed position, bent upon themselves, with the convexity directed forwards and outwards relatively to the trunk, but really forwards and inwards in the usual anatomical sense of the word. When the legs are much crossed the soles of the feet look downwards, the insides being, of course, to the outside. The tibiae and fibula? are, as usual, laterally flattened at the bend, considerable bone being thrown out in the concavity of the curve. The bones of the feet are soft and light, B. C. i. 3. M. 23. 6. 27. Skeleton affected by Rickets.—Skeleton of an adult woman, showing changes chiefly in the spine, pelvis, and lower limbs. Thorax and spine show changes characteristic of lateral curvature, with convexity to the right in the mid-dorsal region. The bodies of the vertebrae are, as usual, rotated towards the convexity, and the right side of the chest is raised, carrying the scapula with it. In the concavity of the curve the bodies of the vertebrae are greatly compressed and fused together, the corresponding libs being also compressed and anchylosed [to the vertebrae, ar.d their angles flattened. On the convex side