537 Sarcoma of the Spine. are fused at their anterior margins. The lower vertebras are greatly broken, and there are large spaces in the position of the intervertebral discs. This is probably an instance of arthritis deformans, with post-mortem injury of the bone. W. C. H. 50. IV. NEW GROWTH AFFECTING THE SPINE. 266. Sarcoma affecting* the Spine.—Section of the lumbar portion of the spine of a young person—in spirit, illustrating the above. William A., a weakly-looking boy, aged 10 years, was admitted to Ward 10 in December 1892 under the care of Mr Duncan, complaining of loss of power in both lower extremities. His lower limbs were almost entirely paralysed, but he could turn himself on to his face. Sensation in his legs was dulled, but not entirely lost; he could localise touches with the fingers, but could not say with how many fingers he was touched. A rounded swelling apparently connected with the bone could be felt over the head and upper part of the left fibula. There was a slight deformity of the spine in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions. Patient showed great tendency to the formation of bedsores, and required constant change of position. His feet became very cedematous, and large blebs formed on them, which were prevented from breaking by the application of wool and collodion. His prepuce was also very cedematous, and rendered the passage of a catheter difficult. The patient had been sent into the Infirmary as a case of Potts' disease. From the anomalous character of some of the symptoms, this diagnosis was considered doubtful, but a plaster jacket was applied, and he was kept in bed. Not long afterwards, however, the jacket had to be removed on account of a swelling of his abdomen. Towards the end of December he had retention of urine, and this was shortly followed by incontinence of both urine and feces. About the beginning of January a hard swelling appeared above the pubes, and rapidly increased in size. On 10th January there was ptosis of the left eyelid, and shortly after that ptosis of the right also,'with internal strabismus as well. The patient got gradually weaker, and died on 24th January, having suffered very little pain from first to last. At the post-mortem examination, within the thorax there was found a large tumour about the size of a hen's egg in the upper dorsal region, and also a "warty" tumour all along the right side of the vertebral column. A tumour was present on the posterior surface of the right lung.