375 Myeloid Sarcomata. She, though never very strong, had always had fair health until eight years ago, when she fell and hurt her left knee. It was sprained, according to her doctor, and was "put in" by a bone-setter, after which she could walk. The knee remained swollen, but was not painful. She used a crutch till three years ago. In July 1888 "rheumatism" and swelling all round the knee-joint set in, and this has gradually increased, until it has reached its present size. It is not painful. The tumour, which is in the neighbourhood of the knee, measures twenty-four inches and a half in circumference, and fifteen inches in length. The patient can walk, but the knee is somewhat flexed. The leg was amputated by a postero-internal flap, and the patient did well, except for occasional attacks of gastritis, to which she was. previously subject. She was discharged cured on 14th January 1889. The tumour is composed partly of bone, partly of fibrous tissue, and partly of a soft substance, which has been breaking ' down. The bony part, consisting of both cancellous and compact tissue, forms walls and septa for the softer portions. The soft tumour substance has apparently grown through the lower end of the femur, and stretched the soft parts beyond it. Part of the cartilaginous surface of the condyle still remains apparently normal. The soft substance is composed of round and spindle ceUs, with numerous giant cells. This slow-growing central tumour of the lower end of the femur may be compared with the similarly slow-growing peri- osteal tumour of the same part (No. 6. 393). & C. 2838. Presented by Professor T. Annandale. 429. Myeloid-Sarcoma of the Head of the Tibia.-Kbula and section of upper end of tibia-in spirit, illustrating the above. C. W. aged 36, was admitted to Ward 12, Eoyal Infirmary, Edin- burgh, m Apnl 1890, suffering from swelling over the head of th tibia Fourteen months before he had received a blow on the leg by a fa 1 " but no in T LT fr°m W°rk f0ra f-days, and caus°ed him pa^ but no other d.scomfort. This was followed by a swelling, which wa nosed five months later, with negative results. Gradually*hTZlZ increased in size. The patient had been losing flesh for ll orTvt month. On admission there was a large swelling over the tad of h Mm, pamful on pressure, and yielding with a crackling sensation Ou