427 Suppurative Arthritis. the Knee-joint.—Lower end of a right femur, with the articular end of tibia—in spirit, illustrating the above. "From a patient in the Royal Infirmary, 26 years of age. Seven years previously an abscess formed and discharged at the outside of the thigh, when several portions of the bone came away. Two months before amputation the bone became affected with severe pain. After his admission to the Hospital, which was five weeks after the commencement of this attack, several ounces of purulent matter were discharged from the outer and upper part of the knee. His general health was much affected. He had a quick pulse, flushings, diarrhoea, and morning sweats. Ampu- tation was performed ; these subsided, and he recovered, so that he left the Hospital well in four weeks." The specimen shows considerable thickening on the surface of the lower end of the femur, with, in addition, on the back and outer sides, apertures leading into the bone, and on the outside a small necrosed fragment in process of separation. The articular surface of the femur shows several patches of bare necrosed bone, like islands in the cartilage; these, though unchanged on the surface, seem loosened from below. The changes on the patella are superficial. This seems to have been primarily a case of osteo-myelitis, extending afterwards to the joint. G. C. 2232. Presented by Alexander Watson, F.R.C.S.E., 1838. 7. Suppurative Osteo-Myelitis of the Femur, involving" the Knee-joint.—Lower end of the right femur of a young person—macerated, showing changes similar to those in the previous specimen. This one was originally entered in the Catalogue as a case of white swelling, but it is more like the above. On the popliteal surface of the femur, white necrotic fragments of bone are seen, and below them the original bone is rarefied, while higher up, and extending round to the front, there is a considerable development of new periosteal bone. The articular surface on the inner condyle of the femur shows a bare necrotic patch, surrounded by rarefied, partially absorbed bone tissue. One or two roughened patches are seen on othor parts of the articular surface. G. C. 372.