3 Injuries of Bone. Bone," plate i. fig. 2. B. C. 1. 4- M. 10. full motion of the limbs, yet the spine is undoubtedly broken or crushed, and he will, I fear, die with the symptoms of the last case, and from the same cause—suppuration within the tube of the spine. 1' Evening. —He is delirious, and like a man who is good-tempered in his cups. His stools and urine still pass involuntarily. Pulse 130, weak. "11th— It has been necessary to tie him down in bed. He now appears dying. His breathing is very quick and laboured; his pulse hurried ; his countenance is sunk, and his tongue is covered with a brown fur About an hour before death a change took place from that happy delirium, and groaning as in much pain, he fell insensible and died. The eleventh dorsal vertebra (sic) was fractured in its body. The spinous process of the same vertebra was crushed. The spinal marrow did not appear to have suffered mechanically, or to have been crushed. Pus, thick in consistence and of a greenish colour, lay betwixt the sheath and the spinal marrow. There was an effusion of serum betwixt the membranes of the brain." It is evident, on carefully examining the specimen, that the injury has been to the second lumbar, and not to the eleventh dorsal vertebra. The description of the injury, more- over, quite tallies with the condition of the specimen, so that this discrepancy cannot be accounted for by any mistake m its identity It is important to note that this injury has been pro- duced in a different way to that of the previous specimens. From the nature of the accident, the spinal column has pro- bably been injured directly where the man struck his back, also indirectly by its having been bent backwards (not forwards, as , \ B C. 1. 4. M. 12. in the previous cases). ^ 3 89 Old-standing Crushing Fracture of the first Lumbap Vertebra.-Sections of the last dorsal, first, and part ot second lumbar vertebra-macerated and dried, to show the ^^'Thraccident happened by a weight of earth falling upon the, man* shoulders, and although the spinal cord must have been compressed the patient survived the injury for « a considerable time. The substance of the injured vertebrae seems to have bear crushed backwards upon the spinal canal, but the parts have nrmarentlv been consolidated. PP in Bell's « Observ. on Injuries of the Spine and Thigh