236 Diseases of Bone. abscess was discharged at that point where the cicatrix now remains, and about a pint of pus escaped. From this opening matter continued to flow in large quantities, till Monday last, when it had healed. His state of health had been gradually getting worse. " The knee, especially on its anterior part, is much swollen, and its surface somewhat red and exquisitely painful. The patella is anchylosed. In the cavity of the joint there is a collection of fluid, affording a very distinct sense of fluctuation. The knee is preserved in a semi-bent position, and its motions are altogether lost. At its upper and inner part there is a small cicatrix. The inferior part of the thigh is also swollen, and the foot frequently cedematous. Several glands in the right groin are enlarged and painful on pressure. His general health is much impaired. There is much emaciation and debility—pulse 125, small—appetite bad—frequent night sweats—tongue clean—bowels slow. 11 On examination, Dr Hunter found that the femur was enlarged and diseased about three inches below the trochanter major. On 25th inst. he slept some—pulse 132, small—some sweating during night—tongue clean—some thirst. The cicatrix was opened up to-day, and about ten ounces of sero-purulent matter was discharged from the course {sic) of the femur. " After admission the patient showed symptoms of septic poisoning. There was a very extensive discharge, and as he was getting weaker, it was thought better to amputate below the small trochanter, from which he made a good recovery." The lower half of the specimen is very irregular, showing small patches of necrosed bone, with depressions and erosions round about them and numerous holes. There is also some deposit of new periosteal bone in the neighbourhood. This seems to have been a case of advancing septic inflam- mation in the bone. G. C. 1004. Presented by Adam Hunter, F.R.C.S.E. 6. 85. Acute Suppurative Inflammation of the Upper End of the Femur, with Rarefaction and Loss of Substance—Upper half of a right femur, probably that of a woman—macerated, showing the above. The interior of the head has, in many places, disappeared, and the back and under surfaces of the neck are irregularly and extensively opened out and absorbed, some of the bone on the interior seeming to be necrotic. The bone below the small