404 Diseases of Hone. bone, and seemed to arise from the substance of the bone. '' The wound healed." The substance of the bone is firm and somewhat fibrous, -with an intermingling of spicules of bone. G. C. 1272. Presented by Joseph Bell, F.R.C.S.E. 6. 494. Sarcoma of the Antrum of Hig-hmore.—Portion of a large sarcoma, laid open—in spirit, illustrating the above. The following is an excerpt from a " clinical lecture on the case of Hugh Morrison, aged 51, delivered by Sir George Ballingall to the- students of Surgery in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, at the conclusion of the summer course for 1827." " Four months ago (before admission to Infirmary), after exposure to cold, he was affected with pain in the molars. One of them was- extracted with a little relief, the alveolus was punctured, and about a gill of clotted blood evacuated. Complaint is attended with gnawing, lan- cinating pain, which becomes worse in the night, and he is much subject- to headache. General health good. "There is an extensive tumour in the region of the superior right maxillary and malar bones, bounded above by the tarsal edge of the lower eyelid, by the extremity of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and by the external angle of the frontal bone. Inferiorly, it extends- to below the level of the teeth of the upper jaw ; posteriorly, it is bounded by the zygomatic process and by the anterior edge of the ramus of the lower jaw : internally it has driven the inner wall of the antrum into the nostril, so that a probe is not easily passed through the inferior meatus ; the palatine process of the superior maxilla is softened, and also very much inclined inwards. Two of the bicuspid teeth are quite loose ; the remain- der of the teeth placed behind the above have been removed. Two or three glands upon the parotid are enlarged. The surface of the swelling is irregular—in some places soft, in others hard and cartilaginous. Vision, hearing, and smell on the affected side are all impaired ; the eye, however, is not protruded from the socket; deglutition is attended with some difficulty." The tumour was removed with considerable loss of blood ; but the patient recovered from the operation. The disease, however, returned, and on March 28th Mr Macpherson, his medical attendant at home, described " the appearance of the tumour to be truly appalling ; nearly the whole surface being in a state of active ulceration and occasional discharges of blood from the ulcerated vessels. The patient's appetite had completely failed. He was harassed with diarrhoja, and could not be expected to survive many days." The surface of the tumour is smooth at one part and warty