55 Fractures of the Skull. Evidently this was _ a case of pyaemia and septicaemia following a compound fracture of the skull. On the outside the bone is slightly roughened by inflamma- tion below and behind the trephine opening, and internally new bone has been thrown out in the main groove for the middle meningeal artery. G. Q. 1010. 3.39. Compound Fracture of the Skull—Consecutive Abscess—Death.—Calvarium of a boy—macerated— showing a hole in the right half of the frontal bone. Two portions of the bone which were removed from the hole immediately after the accident are wired in position near it. "The boy was kicked by a horse, and for four weeks was treated in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. At the end of that time he left, apparently quite well, and with the wound healed. About five weeks after his dis- missal he was twice seized with fits, and was re-admitted into the Hospital. The wound was now tumid and painful. A small speck of bone was removed from it. He lay in bed, listless and without complaining until he became suddenly blind ; he remained sensible, and could recognise his dresser's voice ; by his mother's account, his appetite was good. He died in strong convulsions. " Dissection.— The scalp and dura mater adhered firmly together at the place of the cicatrix; the edges of the bone and dura mater were separate. A very extensive abscess was found to occupy almost the whole of the right hemisphere of the brain. The thinnest parts of the walls of this abscess were opposite to the wound and at the base of the brain near the optic nerves. It was calculated that about eight ounces of pus were evacuated from the abscess. There was no dead bone found on dissection." The margins of the hole in the bone are rounded by the vital processes following the injury, whereas the margins of the loose fragments, removed at the time of the accident, are sharp. There are marks of increased vascularity all over the calvarium, especially on the inner side. B. C. 1. 2. M. 14 c. ». Septic Osteo-myelitis of the Skull, following" Injury.—Calvarium—macerated—with a portion of dead bone in process of separation on the right side of the frontal bone. "This man lay with the surface of the cranium exposed, and