Diseases of Joints. 500 course. It adhered along its whole course to the internal surface of the capsule, and was indeed reduced to a few fibrous and cellular-looking threads, which could he traced with diffi- culty. The tendon of the biceps as high as its passage into the groove of the humerus, and as high as that point where the synovial capsule is reflected upon it from off the fibrous capsular ligament could be readily traced; but here the tendon disappeared; a few of its fibres, assuming a cellular appearance, adhered to the margins of the groove in the bone, and a certain nuniher might also be traced from the termination of the groove closely adhering to the synovial membrane, and almost identified with it, as far as the usual insertion of this tendon into the upper portion of the fibro-cartilaginous ring of the- glenoid cavity. Since the occurrence of this case the donor has met with three others, closely resembling each other. (See a paper on the subject in the London Medical Gazette, No. 14, Saturday, March 8, 1828.) E. Stanley, Esq., in the same periodical for December 6, 1828, states that he has since remarked three similar cases. He seems to he of opinion, and gives some interesting cases to show, that the tendon of the biceps can be ruptured hy certain forcible movements of the arm, without being accompanied with the dislocation of the humerus. The symptoms are severe, and the time required for the reparation of the injury much more considerable than in the case of a common bruise. Mr Stanley further states that in two cases of dislocation of the humerus, which he had an opportunity of examining, he found the tendon of the biceps entire." It is now known, as the previous four specimens illustrate, that these are not cases of rupture of the biceps tendon, but of its absorption in the progress of arthritis deformans. The central portion of cartilage on the head of the humerus is worn away, and round the margin there is some enlargement and irregular outgrowth of bone. There is some irregularity of the cartilage at the lower part of the glenoid cavity. G. C. 1121. Presented by K. Knox, F.R.C.S.E.