Sarcomatous Cartilaginous Tumours. 349 way through that ulcerated part of the surface which is studded with the fungous excrescences represented in the drawing. "This bursting out of the matter brought relief from the pain, and he now lay in a state of extreme languor, moaning and slumbering. You found it painful even to question him, he was so feeble ; he fell, after a few broken answers, into a slumber of mere debility, and closed'his eyes as exhausted ; and while I took the sketch of his posture, and of the proportions of this prodigious tumour, he slumbered continually. His extreme weakness precluded every practical experiment, and left for our discussion the speculative question only: 'In a case so deplorable and hopeless, what should we have done at an earlier stage, when the patient's strength was more entire, and youth and vigour (for he was but 21 years of age) on his side ?' "Here, for the first time, I felt that a bony tumour might, by advancing to the trunk of the body, preclude amputation as entirely as aneunsni of the subclavian artery ! That the question here to be resolved was not whether we might dare to amputate at the ehoulder- joint-the question was of amputating the scapula also, and along with it a tumour exceeding in size even the trunk of the body ! and the accident menhonedby CheseldenCan accident which has often happened since) of Wood the miller, whose arm, scapula and all, was rudely and suddenly torn from his body, could not but come into our recollection. There was hardly left us even a choice to exercise our discretion and skill upon ■ for from the state of the veins-large, tortuous, and already ulcerating and so numerous as to give a livid colour to almost all the surface of the' umour-rt was plain that he was in daily peril of hemorrhage, and that this was at no remote period, certainly within a few weeks, to put a period to his life ! Could there then be a question whether to wait in ear of that hemorrhage which was assuredly to end in death ; or to risk by operating that hemorrhage by which he might be saved alive • For Tanv i , Shad°W °f a d°Ubt- What Sh°«ld dete™^ « of safltvl I' CaS6t+° d° deSperate ***** the Possibility of safety through operation, the certainty of death. I saw it possible f SouHer T^T % ^ °f * ™^-ter s of the shoulder and scapula, to prevent any alarming degree of hemor- rhage ; by sawing across the outer end of the clavicle to get commaTof IrTo "«^ aS the f- - ordmi; tump t tie, when it was cut, the arteria transversalis humeri and eertamly t a ^ ^ ^ en, and been an enterpnse as certainly fatal as the Cesarian section i s If still ZTl 1 PhyS1Ca1' 1 Sll0UW haV6 U1*ed Mm t0 «iis 'awful trial am devoted myself to the task ; but he was sunk too low for any trial' tt£Sz&£X!r ^ ^* ad— - "DissecUon-JulylZtk, 1806.-Having divided the integuments,