Injuries of Bone. 46 with a distinct depression in the centre of the wound. The injury was caused by a quoit, thrown from a distance of about 20 yards before it struck the skull. There was a rise of temperature and threatening of erysipelas on the fourth day after admission, but absolutely no other symptoms. On August 15th the wound had healed, except for about an eighth of an inch. On the evening of the 16th he made up his own bed and said good-night to the men in the ward. At about 8 a.m. the next morning he was found to be insensible, with stertorous breathing, and died in about an hour. At the post-mortem examination, recent lymph was found all over the surface of the left hemisphere, and about two drachms of pus below the fracture of the inner table. The dura mater was intact, and the brain substance beneath the fracture was not affected. The fissure from the depression to the edge of the bone was caused when removing the skull-cap. The curious part of the case is the absence of all symptoms. There were no eye or pulse symptoms and no pain. The treatment was local, with rest in bed and low diet." This resembles what has been called " pond " fracture, with, in addition, the dint produced by the quoit. The more extensive splintering of the inner table is characteristic. G. C. 3435. Presented by B. Langley Mills, F.R.C.S.E., The Cake, Chakrata, 1892. 3. 19. Depressed Fracture of Parietal Bone.—Portion of a left parietal bone—macerated—showing a depressed fracture and trephine opening. A circle of bone has been removed with the trephine, but the depressed bone has not been raised. Had the depressed part been sawn through, elevation would have been possible from the trephine opening (Sir Charles Bell). B. C. 1. 2. M. 10. 3. 20. Comminuted Fracture of Parietal Bone.—Calvavium macerated—to show a fracture of the right parietal bone and a trephine opening beside it. The fracture had apparently been produced by a blow, and some of the pieces had probably been depressed. The trephine opening evidently was to permit the elevation of some of the