344 Diseases of Bone. 6. 366. Chondpo-Sareoma of the Thumb.—Plaster cast of the hand from which the previous specimen was taken. The size and position of the tumour is well shown. G. C. 3357. Presented by Charles W. Catiicart, F.E.C.S.E. 6. 367. Chondro sarcoma of Scapula and Chondromata of Fingers and Humerus.—Eight arm, with scapula and part of clavicle amputated for enormous chondrosarcoma of the scapula—in spirit. The patient was a gentleman, aged 33. From infancy the joints- of both arms were noted as "peculiar." The shoulder, elbow, and finger joints of his right arm were supposed to have heen "put out" by some injury, of which, however, no history was obtainable from his mother. During childhood and boyhood the finger-joints steadily got more "peculiar," enlarging gradually till, when he was 18 years of age, the growths formed a decided inconvenience, particularly those on the right hand, all the fingers of which were affected. On the left hand, the middle, ring, and little fingers only had growths. As the tumour of the right middle finger hindered him from writing, the finger was removed by Professor Syme. The patient was at this time fully engaged in hard office work. In 1870, when about 20 years of age, he went to Southern India, and remained there for thirteen years, enjoying, until the growth of the great tumour, perfect health. He was able to write, ride, and play lawn tennis. The growths on his fingers had meanwhile only slightly increased up to about January 1883 (the year of the operation) He then be-an to feel pain in the right shoulder, and was treated for neuralgia. The nam got worse ; the shoulder began to swell; his clothes required altering, and finally he had to keep his arm in a sling outside of his clothes altogether The pain centred over the bicipital groove and was very much aggravated by the least pressure. _ By April 1883 he had gradually become invalided, the pain getting steadily worse. He walked with difficulty, till in July he was forced to lie up. After a month in hed he could only stand with help. In August he was carried to Madras for further advice. At this time lie could straighten his legs, but the growth was increasing rapidly At Madras he was advised to return home, and did so, being earned into Ins bunk in October, and never leaving it during a voyage of thirty days. Being a tall man, his legs were kept permanently bent up, ^J^Zl the position described in " present condition." On arriving m Edin laugh he saw Dr Gillespie. Dr Patrick Heron Watson was shortly afterwards called in consultation, but thought that any operation was madvis- able, because the patient's general health was m such an unsatisfactory condition.