Tubercular Synovitis of Knee-joint. 439 7. 33. Tubercular Synovitis, involving the Cartilages and the Bone.—Right knee-joint of a young person, laid open— in spirit, illustrating the above. The trochlear surface of the femur and the corresponding surface of the patella are occupied by a mass of new tissue— probably blanched fibrous and granulation tissue—which has extended down into the bone. The rest of the articular surfaces are altered, but to a much less extent. The following is Sir Charles Bell's note, viz., "Specimen of disease of the synovial membrane, from a patient of Mr Brodie's. This is the state of the joint in which I pass the Seton." B. C. ii. M. 15. 7. 34. Tubercular Synovitis, involving the Cartilage and Bone.—Cast—in gelatine and glycerine—rof the articular surfaces of a knee-joint, laid open, after amputation, for the above. David H., aged 42, at the age of 16, was attacked with excessive vomiting and sickness, followed by pain and swelling of the knee. This ended in an abscess near the knee, which was opened. It closed and re-opened, when it discharged some pieces of bone. This opening and closing went on for about fourteen years, when a large piece of bone was removed, probably from the tibia. He then remained apparently well for about twelve years. Two and a half months ago he had pains in his leg, which were considered rheumatic. This was followed by swelling of the knee, and he was admitted to the Koyal Infirmary. An abscess over the near condyle of the femur was opened but soon turned septic, and other abscesses formed round about and burrowed in the calf of the leg. As his constitution was suffering and his knee getting worse, the leg was amputated. The cast shows that the articular cartilage is left only at one place, viz., on the outer half of the trochlear surface. The greater part of the rest is covered by vascular granulations, but upon the inner condyle are seen two patches of what was bare, smooth, necrotic bone. The articular surface of the tibia is covered by vascular granulations. The cicatrix of the former abscess is seen round the head of the tibia.