Recurrent Fibroid Tumours. 565 leached the dimensions of a child's head. The wound healed up, and the- patient remained well for nine months, when the tumour reappeared, and had reached the size of two fists by 29th October 1811, when Mr Russell excised it. The cicatrix healed up, but in nine months again it grew and increased gradually to the size of the head of a child seven or eight years old, with the skin over it inflamed, and a dark fungus protruding. It was dissected out by Mr Allan from among the muscles of the back. It again healed ; but in seven months the tumour reappeared and grew very quickly, so that in two months more it was as big as at the last operation. It had a spongy elastic feeling. The skin at some places was congested over it. It was removed by Mr John Bell, and the patient made a good recovery. He went home till March 1815, when he found the tumour beginning for the fifth time. It grew quickly, and by June 13, 1816, it formed a large pedunculated mass. His health was now impaired. The tumour was removed by Mr Allan by a ligature gradually tightened, but it returned again early in 1817, and by the 9th of September, when he returned to Edinburgh, the disease formed a mass as follows:— "The tumour was lobulated, and in three divisions; the largest, the size of a quartern loaf; the second, the size of the head of a full-grown foetus, and the third smaller ; in all, three feet across at the base. From the surface of these there sprung three fungi respectively of the size of a full-sized cauliflower, a fist, and a small apple. He died about the 22nd January 1818 from exhaustion, but without visceral affection. Thus he lived about thirteen years from the first appearance of the tumour, and seven years eight months after the first removal." See Allan's Surgery, vol. i. p. 264. Maclachlan & Stewart, 1821. The tumour is somewhat lobulated, of a soft uniform texture, with very little fibrous tissue in the interior. It is- tending to degenerate at numerous points so as to form small cysts- G. C. 973. 9. 62. Large Recurrent Fibroid Tumour without Dis- semination.—Another portion of the foregoing tumour showing similar characteristics. G. C. 973a. 9. 63. Enormous Recurrent Fibroid Tumour without Dissemination.—Plaster of Paris cast of the back of an adult showing an enormous fungating tumour.