211 Richets. outwards, are rotated outwards, and are flattened and enlarged at their lower ends. Tibse and Fibulae.—The tibia? and fibulas are bent almost completely double, so that the knees must have touched the outside of the foot during life. The bones of the feet are comparatively unaltered. B. C. i. 3. M. 24. 26. Skeleton affected by Rickets.—Skeleton of a rickety woman (Christie Moore) showing alterations, chiefly in the limbs and pelvis. "She was the little woman, with rather a good face, and a great deal of impudence, who generally stood at the Infirmary gate to talk to the students. She went with great velocity on her crutches. She had no motion in her legs separately, they being twisted together curiously. This made it the more extraordinary that she ever suffered as she did in child-bed. She was pregnant twice, and the first child was brought away at the eight months entire, but flattened. In her second labour I saw her. She had gone the full time. When I examined the head of the child, I found it perforated, and one of the parietal bones brought away. After this, the other parietal bone was brought away by the use of the crochet. The hook was then put into the foramen magnum and the base of the skull brought down obliquely, but the operator with all his force could not bring it through. This was on the second day of her labour She was much exhausted. Her voice, however, was hale and strong, and she would talk in her usual style of impudence. She sank rather rapidly an d died undelivered. A model represents the appearance which presented on dissection." (See '1 Obstetrical Collection.") The pelvis is greatly flattened. "It measures, between the sacrum and pubis, two fingers' breadth only, or an inch and a half, the transverse diameter four inches and a quarter. The linea pectinia forms here a very sharp spine, as sharp as a paper-folder. This was the cause of death, for in attempting to bring the head through the pelvis, the womb was forced against the ridge, and being pressed continually, gave way, so that part of the child escaped through the rent in the womb. As in the following specimen, the arm-bone is shaped by the action of the deltoid muscle. The muscles of the shoulder were very powerful, and she took great pride in the rapidity of her progress."