479 Tubercular Ostitis involving Elbow-jcint. history was good, and previous health excellent. About three years before his admission to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, he had sprained his right arm, and it had never been quite the same again. Some months before his admission, a swelling had appeared just below the front of the right elbow, and had gradually increased, till it burst and dis- charged. On admission, there was still swelling there, and an open sore with tough white sloughs lying in its centre. After poultices and blisters, the sloughs separated and the sore closed, but about the same time a chronic swelling appeared at the back of the elbow, and after being opened, turned septic. As the patient's health began to suffer, amputation was performed, and he made a good recovery. The section of the arm shows a mass of cicatricial tissue in the site of the former swelling on the front of the arm. It is not connected with the joint. The cartilage of the elbow joint is almost entirely replaced by granulations. A caseous cavity, which opened into the elbow-joint, is seen on the ulna, and non-vascular deposits between this cavity and the joint. G. C. 2810. Presented by P. H. MacLaeen, F.R.C.S.E. 139. Tubercular Arthritis, with Destruction of the Articular Surface of the Humerus. — Bones of a left elbow—macerated, illustrating the above. The central portion of the lower articular surface of the humerus is wanting, and the bone round it is greatly opened out, as if in process of absorption. A portion of the smooth articular surface of the capitellum remains, but on what is left of the trochlear surface the bone is rarefied. Corresponding- changes are present on the articular surfaces of the ulna and radius. Some new periosteal bone has been formed on all the bones near their articular surfaces. There has evidently been a septic complication in the later stages of the disease, but that the primary mischief was in the bone is only a conjecture based upon the comparatively localised destruction of the bone. G. C. 1148 140. Advanced Tubercular Disease of the Elbow.—