50 Diseases of Bone. which were extremely thin, we found, on attempting to cleanse the tumour from one extremity to the other, that it was of a substance much resembling callus ; in many places it was so firm and solid that after trying in vain to divide it with a strong knife, we were obliged to betake ourselves to the common amputation saw. "The cells of this bony tumour were everywhere filled with a matter resembling thick cheese ; the tumour itself, from its great size, and the entire appearance of the os humeri, seemed only to be attached to that bone ; but upon a more minute examination was plainly a produc- tion from its substance. The shoulder-bone could be traced through the whole tumour ; but enlarged, spongy, and ulcerated. The upper part of the scapula, the acromion process, and the outer end of the clavicle could during life, be plainly distinguished to be enlarged, and to form part of the tumour ; and upon dissection, all the bones forming the shoulder- ioint were found to be deeply diseased. The upper and most bulky part of the tumour seemed to proceed as much from these as from the os humeri, and the joint was completely anchylosed." This portion of the tumour is evidently cartilaginous. The nodules in most places are distinct, but over extensive areas they have been softened and broken down. Calcareous deposits are scattered throughout the substance. John Bell's description of the tumour does not correspond exactly to that of a cartilaginous tumour, when he speaks of matter « resembling thick cheese," unless he means << of the consistence of thick cheese." The reference, however, in the Catalogue description of this specimen to the above case could be to no other than that quoted. The clinical history as to pain and rapid growth is also strikingly like Dr Watson's case of chondro- sarcoma. (See No. 6. 367.) G. C. 12/0. Presented by Professor John Thomson. 6 371 ChondFO-Sarcoma of Humerus.-PkotograPh of the illustration of the above case in John Bell's " Principles o Surgery " vol. iii. part L, to illustrate the relative size of the tumour,'and the appearance of the patient during hfe. 6. 372. Chondrosarcoma^) of Humerus-Plaster cast- coated with wax-of left upper extremity, showing growth of