134 Injuries of Bone. —Eight femur of a boy aged 13—macerated, showing the above. The lower epiphysis is quite separate from the shaft. The patient fell from the joisting of a house on the floor below, and his right leg went through the flooring. When brought into the Hospital, the house surgeon reported to Mr J. a case of common fracture of the thigh-bone. He lay with the usual securities upon the limb for about a fortnight before I was called to consult upon it. The boy was hectic, much reduced, a dry tongue, irritable pulse, and upon the inside of the knee there were deep sloughy spots. Next day, in consequence of the restlessness of the boy during the night, I found the bone sticking through the integuments, and saw from the appearance of the bone that the case had been mistaken, and that, instead of a fracture communicating with the joint, it was a diastasis, or separation of the epiphysis. Even now I thought it nof too late to amputate, with some chance of the boy's surviving, but it was thought he had somewhat rallied from the day preceding, and that he might be still better on the morrow. On that day he died The dissection exhibited great suppuration within the knee- joint an immense abscess or cavity communicating with the knee-joint, and extending up the bone nearly to the hip. The periosteum could be torn with the fingers from half the length of the bone. Such, then are the consequence of a diastasis of the lower head of the femur, and by this we see that the case classes itself with the worst kinds of fractures communicating with the knee-joint. Apparently a small portion has been broken off the lower end of the shaft. The surface of the shaft at the lower end has at some places a considerable crust of new periosteal bone, while at others the vascular pores are opened out. A similar opening out is seen all the way up the shaft. At the front of the neck a patch of the surface is eroded. These changes have evidently been due to septic osteo-myelitis, an accidental consequent of the injury. B. C. I. 1. M. 8. a. 3. 249. Separation of the Epiphysis, with Mal-union.- Lower end of a left femur—macerated, showing the above. A lad, in attempting to get upon the back of a gentleman S carnage. *ot his legs entangled within the spokes of the wheel, and the lower « remity of the femur was broken off, suffering that sort of accident which L called diastasis. Union took place after to., but the broken portions united irregularly, and a point projected Years after this accident, and when the patient had grown into manhood he uff red an acciden of a still more serious nature. In carrying a burden