Sarcomatous Cartilaginous Tumours. 347 The following history of the case is taken from John Bell's "Principles of Surgery," vol. iii. part i. page 82 :— "Alexander Macdonald, a Highlander, from Fort Augustus—a tall and handsome lad, passing six feet in height, and uncommonly athletic— was put to the Perth Academy for his education in writing, book-keeping, and such other parts of learning as might qualify him for a counting- house. It was intended to send him to America, a clerk to the North- West Company, in the fur trade. In running violently at tennis, in the ' Academy green, he fell and hurt his shoulder. It was such a bruise as often happens from a fall, without<entailing the slightest ill consequence beyond the first pain and swelling ; the skin was blackened by the bruise and the joint was sprained ; he had excessive pains along the Whole arm for twenty-four hours ; but it vanished gradually. He imagined himself well; he had recovered everything but the strength of his arm ; but after the violence of the pain (which lasted no more than twenty-four hours) was gone, such weakness remained, that though from his great strength he could lift perpendicularly such weights as others could not move, vet he could never raise his arm to his head. "I was at pains to question his father, a respectable old man concerning the part which received the injury, and he clearly and decidedly affirmed that it was not the shoulder-joint, but the middle of the bone of the arm that received the shock. It was along the whole of the arm that he felt the pain, and could distinguish the marks of the bruise ?aln had> after its violence, totally ceased, as if the part had sustained no permanent injury, and he believed himself well It was exactly at the end of a month that the pain returned and fixed in the jomt,_ with a very distressing sense of weakness, so that he could not at all raise his arm ; if he meant to put on his hat with it, he had to raise it with the other hand, and when thus raised, if he lowered it a»ain without support, the moment it fell unsupported below the levef it descended like lead. Still, he could lift perpendicularly a very great we,ght but from this second period of pain we must date the disease. The wholearm swelled, but especially about the shoulder. His cries and shrieks were wild and melancholy. Living in a remote part of the High- lands, it is natural for the father to express himself in the following words which he invariably uses when I question him in regard to the degree of pain : Sir, there was no hour of the night nor day in which you could not hear his wild cries miles off.' He represented the particular pain by saying it seemed as if he had been bored with hot irons ; and his cries were so unceasing, as well as so piercing, that ' though they lived in a very long house they had no sleep from this time forward.' That sucn had been his condition no one could doubt who saw him ™ZL i?flY?r SWdling kept e1Ual Tace with these dreadful '< rad X « i , 6 Seemed dlMy t0 Swe11 from the Moulder-joint; gradually the whole arm swelled, and the forearm and hand dwindled. re t V lStlStl'0ng) WaS WaSt°d With the aS™y and wa*t of before it ^ t \ ^ **** tllG al'm WaS "o^rously swelled, and before it was entity oppressed, or the forearm wasted, he could