Fungus Foot of India. 335 9. Inflammation of Bone due to Actino-Mycosis. 6. 348. Actino-Mycosis of Bone.—Section of the jaw of an ox, illustrating the above. From a slaughter-house in Berlin, where this disease is said to be comparatively common in summer. The bone has been irregularly enlarged, and is occupied by numerous cavities of varying size containing a caseous-looking material. The bone between these cavities is firm and dense. G. C. 3387. Presented by Edgar Willet, F.R.C.S. Eng. 10. Inflammation of Bone due to the Mycetoma Fungus. 6. 349. Mycetoma or Fung-us Foot of India—Black Variety. —Foot of a Hindoo, aged 40, in section—mounted in spirit, to illustrate the above. "1877, July 14.—Admitted on the 8th inst. for the above, which is often years' duration. Before the disease manifested itself used to work in the fields, the soil of which was not black cotton, but the ordinary red soil of the country. Had no guinea-worm ; not pricked by a thorn. "The foot is now enormously swollen, especially in its posterior two-thirds. The anterior part is narrow and contracted, due to the three last toes being turned upwards, their plantar surfaces looking directly outwards and forwards, caused by his resting the foot on the outer border, and the pressure gradually raising the toes upward. There is a largish tumour on the sole, at the base of the great toe, the under surface of which is ulcerated. Characteristic tubercles are formed all over the foot, and even up the leg as far as the upper third. The leg is slightly swollen. There is a good deal of pain, attended with a burning sensation in the affected limb. The tubercles discharge sago-like granules of a black kind. His health is fair." The interior of the bones, as well as the soft parts, are occupied by characteristic black granules of varying size. These lie in spaces which formerly contained fluid, and which are surrounded by more or less complete fibrous capsules. G. C. 2511. Presented by Surgeon Tyrrell, H.M. Madras Army.