Diseases of Joints. 474 The adjacent surfaces of the astragalus and tibia are remarkable for showing a hard and eburnated portion of the articular surface, while the rest is rarefied and eroded. The surfaces of the astragalo-scaphoid joint are very rough and irregular, as are also those of the joints between the astragalus and os calcis. These three bones are also lightened and eroded interiorly. The joint between the os calcis and the cuboid has been affected, but to a less extent, while the cuneiform bones seem intact. The articular surface of the fibula is eroded, and shows a few pieces of smooth bone. A slight crust of new periosteal hone has been formed at the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, as if from septic complication. G. C. 906. Referred to in Sir George Ballingall's Clinical Lectures, No. 1, page 7. Presented by Sir George Ballingall. 7. 125. Tubercular Disease of Tarsus and Metatarsus. —Several of the left tarsal and metatarsal bones of a young person—macerated, illustrating the above. There are tubercular changes in several of the bones. The shaft of two of the metatarsal bones are enlarged, and their interiors are hollowed out, and several other bones are rarefied and partially absorbed. G. C. 940. 7. 126. Disease of Tarsus, possibly Tubercular, but chiefly Septic— Lower end of the right tibia and fibula, astragalus, os calcis, first, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and some phalanges of a child—macerated, illustrating the above. John Carlan, aged 3, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edin- burgh, on 3rd July 1827, suffering from extensive ulceration over the malleoli of the right leg. The tibia and fibula were bare, and the ankle- joint exposed. Four weeks previously he had received some injury which, after three weeks, had ended in an abscess. Owing to increased discharge, with diarrhoea, the leg was amputated, but the patient died within a week. The astragalus was found loose, "embedded in pus," and the lower end of the fibula was covered with granulations.