Suppurative Arthritis. 429 7. 10. Septic Inflammation of Knee-joint.—Eight knee- joint laid open—in spirit, illustrating the effects of the ahove. The patient, a man aged 35, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, on account of extensive abscesses of the leg and thigh from erysipelas. Purulent effusion afterwards took place into the knee-joint; hectic fever and diarrhoea supervened. Amputation was performed, and he recovered. The cartilage has disappeared round the edges of the articular surface of the lower end of the femur. The bone from which the cartilage has disappeared is smooth in some places, while at others, e.g. at the inner condyle, it is rarefied. G. C. 2233. Presented by Alexander Watson, F.R.C.S.E., 1838. 7.11. Septic Inflammation in the Knee-joint.—Section of an injected knee-joint—in spirit, illustrating the ahove. The patient was an elderly man, who had suffered from what seemed to be hydrops-articuli, i.e. a chronic distension of the knee, the nature of which, however, was obscure—perhaps rheumatic, possibly tubercular. The joint was aspirated, and a clear fluid drawn off. Soon afterwards the joint inflamed and the fluid then drawn off was purulent. Suppuration extended into the thigh and calf, and amputation became necessary. The patient developed phthisis, and lingered for many weeks with a chronic suppuration in the thigh. He eventually sank from exhaustion. The articular surface of the femur is bared of cartilage and rarefied (carious) where it was in contact with the tibia. At other places the cartilage is loosened, and has been falling off, while at others it is vascular and has been injected. The articular surface of the tibia is quite bare, and the exposed bone is soft and inflamed. The articular surface of the patella is injected. The synovial membrane is thrown out into soft vascular processes. Caseous glands are seen in section in the popliteal space. Probably the joint in this case became septic after the aspiration. q q 3375 Presented by A. G. Miller, F.K.C.S.E., 1892. 2. Septic Inflammation in the Ankle-joint and Lower