Tubercular Disease of the Spine. 529 The specimen shows loss of substance of the fourth, and part of the fifth vertebrae, and some disease of the second. The destruction of the bodies has left the spinal canal completely exposed from the front. G. C. 725. Presented by Alex. Watson, F.E.C.S.E. 7. 243. Tubercular Disease, with great Destruction of the Bodies.—Left half of a spinal column, pelvis, and part of skull —partially cleaned and dried, illustrating the above. Margaret M'N., about thirty, was known by the inspector of poor for about ten years as a prostitute of the very lowest type. Some defor- mity was supposed to have been present since childhood, and she had gone about " doubled-up " certainly for ten years before death. She went into the workhouse in an exhausted condition, and died there from increase of the exhaustion, without symptom of any definite disease, probably the result of a debauched life and ill health. She was able, however, to "move about" until a month or two before her death. There had been a sinus discharging for some time, beside the projecting spines. On each side a chronic abscess was found extending about half-way to the groin, and filled with caseous material, becoming calcareous. The bodies of the vertebra? from the ninth dorsal to the second lumbar inclusive, as well as portions of those of the seventh and eighth dorsal and third lumbar, have disappeared. The corresponding spinous processes have been fused into a single piece, which has been accidentally broken after death. The dorsal spine above the disease has been curved forwards, i.e. with the convexity towards the thorax, and in consequence the ribs from the fourth to the tenth have been curved markedly upwards and forced together. There is considerable calcareous debris now in some parts of the canal, but this must have been loose during life, and probably has not pressed against the nerves. The narrowing of the outlet of the pelvis, and the tilting back of the promontory of the sacrum, are characteristic of Kyphosis. The absence of paraplegia is remarkable, and is probably to be explained by the gradual escape of the debris through the sinus and the slow formation of the curves. G. C. 3244 Presented by Johnson Syminuton, F.R.C.S.E 1891 2 L "