514 Diseases of Joints. The spine, as a whole, is bent forward. The head has probably been thrust to the left. There is a marked curve to the right extending over the cervical and dorsal regions, with its maximum convexity at the sixth dorsal vertebra. Slight com- pensating curves to the left are present in the cervical and lower dorsal regions respectively. The vertebras in the main curve are rotated towards the convexity as usual. The angles of the ribs on the right side are consequently projected backwards, and those on the concave or left side are flattened ; but the upper- most and lowermost ribs on each side are altered in the reverse way to those about the middle of their own side in accord- ance with the compensating curves. The ribs on the concave or left side are compressed, especially about the middle, while those on the right side, although closely approximated at their angles, are elsewhere widely separated. W. C. G. 13. Figured by Shaw " on Distortion," plate 3, figs. 2 and 3. 7. 217. Advanced Lateral Curvature.—Spinal column, with the pelvis, portions of ribs, and part of skull attached—partly macerated, illustrating the above. The specimen shows in a marked degree alternating lateral curves, with loss of the. usual anteroposterior curves. There is a strong curve to the left in the lumbar region, another to the right in the mid-dorsal, and a third slight one to the left in the upper dorsal region. There is the usual rotation of the bodies of the vertebra towards the convexity, with corresponding alterations in the ribs, i.e. a projection backwards of the angles on the right side in the mid-dorsal region, and to the left side in the upper dorsal region, with flattening of the angles of the opposite ribs in each case. Owing to the obliquity of the bodies of the vertebra, the projecting angle of the fifth rib on the right side is opposite the slightly projecting angle of the fourth rib on the left side, but examination will show the real relation of the ribs. As is usual in such cases, the articular and transverse processes, as well as the heads of the ribs, are compressed in the concavity of the curve, and the articular processes and lamina in many