Diseases of Bone. 412 strongly pointed out to him, he could not be persuaded to remain in town until he had seen his harvest got in. With this view he set out for his farm, where he remained for nearly two months, scarcely a day of which passed without his losing an alarming quantity of blood. "On the 20th of September, when he returned, he looked an emaciated creature, his face ghastly and bloodless, his frame languid and exhausted, scarcely able to drag one limb after another. "The tumour was now making its way in every direction through the carious bones. The right nostril was so occupied by the tumour that not a breath of air could be forced through it. The cheek was not swollen, but a small knobby tumour occupied the space between the ala nasi, infra- orbitary hole and canine tooth of the right side. It had forced its way through the walls of the antrum. A portion of the tumour had made its appearance in the form of a small papilla at the alveolar socket of the third grinder. This tooth had been pulled by a dentist, who imagined the disease to be toothache. The tumour likewise passed down behind the palate, obstructing in some degree his swallowing, and affecting a little his voice. '' Mr Bell first tried the caustic by passing it high into the nostrils ; but finding that its roots were so protected by the walls of the antrum that there was no chance of reaching them, he made an oblique incision in the cheek, about three inches long, and found the tumour projecting through a hole in the antrum, the bones of which were completely carious. A probe could be passed through this hole across the cavity into the nostril, and down the throat. Mr Bell now tried to reach its roots by holding down the projecting lobe of the tumour, and directing the caustic towards the angle of the eye, inclining it a little towards the throat. In this, however, Mr Bell confesses to have entirely failed, for there inter- vened between this hole in the cheek and the roots so large a portion of the tumour, that, instead of passing over it, he transfixed it. By frequent applications of the caustic this portion was converted into a sac or bag, with a round mouth sufficient to admit the point of the thumb. A happy effect resulted from the applications, for, from the time that the caustic was first applied, the hemorrhage never recurred. "The pains which he suffered from the tumour were of the most rending and distracting kind, frequently darting through the head. He had frequent accessions of fever and diarrhoea. At each attack of fever he was confined to bed, and for some days tortured with sickness and retching. During the intervals of these paroxysms he was wont to sit cheerless and moaning over the fire, holding his head in his hands, resting on his knees. His countenance was now more pallid and death-like ; his eyes heavy, sunk, and languid ; his hearing much impaired, and his brain beginning to suffer. Stupor had already taken place. "By slightly astringent injections thrown into the antrum, by occasional opiates and astringent mixtures, by soft nourishing diet, with wine and other cordials, a melancholy existence was dragged out, with many intervening scenes of great distress, until February 1814, when