391 Sarcoma invading Bone. oppressive feelings which the anticipation gives rise to. At this time he had neither pain nor lameness. "Consultation.—Notwithstanding the frequent application of leeches and blisters to the base of the tumour, and rolling the limb and keeping the roller wet, the disease has made progress. There is now pain in the tumour; a new lobe or convexity has formed, presenting the' appearance of a suppuration pointing. Two spots on the old knobs have1 ulcerated and discharged a limpid fluid. The glands of the groin have enlarged very considerably, and they are tender. Do these circumstances, warrant amputation, and what is the chance of saving the life ? My colleagues look less despairingly on this case than I confess I do. It may be possible that the glands of the groin are inflamed only in consequence' of the leech bites and blisters ; but independent of this circumstance, I fear we shall see the disease take an unfavourable turn at the end of three months from its commencement. Amputation is determined upon as^ affording the only hope of saving his life. "4th day after amputation.—The glands of the thigh and groin have subsided in a very remarkable manner. During the operation the muscles of the thigh were unusually pale. On the first dressing the surface was pale, although there was partial adhesion. On the second! dressing the stump looked well, and the patient's health and spirits were' observed to be very good. But about the ninth day the stump looked ill : there came a profuse gleety discharge, and the granulations were pale. "March 10th.— The report is 'He looks ill, and has had rigours ;; here is the commencement of mischief.' " 12th.— For some days he has been looking ill, and falling low • he vomits everything he swallows. He has got some relief by the effer- vescing mixture with laudanum. His pulse is scarcely to be distin- guished. " 14th.—' The stump is much changed : it is dry, for there is very little secretion ; the soft parts have retracted, so as to expose the bone. His countenance has a dirty or dull gray colour. He is low and sick, and complains of a pain in his right side.' " 15th.—' He is sinking exactly as the former patient did. It is melancholy to see a young man, having no idea of a mortal disease, thus quickly cut off, and shocking to find this formidable disease so frequent, without affording any useful information to guide our future practice.' " He died in the evening. Dissection. —We found the liver in a very extraordinary state. 11 was enlarged and almost black—that is, it had the colour of a large clot of venous blood ; it was indeed very much gorged with blood. Within it were those soft tumours, indicating too evidently that either the external disease had been propagated and fallen on this viscus, or that there had originally prevailed a more general disorder. "The amputated limb was injected, and it is preserved in the Museum. The veins injected from the saphena exhibited an extraordinary