i 442 Diseases of Joints. George Ballingall, delivered to the Students of Surgery in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, at the conclusion of the winter course for 1828-1829. "This poor girl," Helen Coghill, " was admitted on 8th October, and the following report entered in the Journal: 'The left knee is swelled, hot and painful ; the patella is movable, but the slightest movement or pressure upon the bone is attended with very severe pain in the condyles of the femur. The limb is kept constantly in the extended posture. Pulse natural, tongue clean, belly regular. States that her knee was first inflamed ten years ago in consequence of a fall, from the effects of which she never altogether recovered. Eighteen months ago, after a similar accident, the inflammation was much aggravated, and has been more severe than ever during the last seven weeks. Applic. Herucl. xx. genu.' " Subsequent to this various remedies were employed, but without any very obvious or permanent relief, and on the 3rd November I find the following report entered in the Journal:— " 1 Took three grains of opium and slept a little ; pulse 124 ; tongue slightly furred ; no sweating; bowels regular ; appetite rather worse. Previous to her admission she had been cupped, and leeches had been applied with benefit. Since her admission she had been leeched three times, and cupped three times to a large amount, and has also had a blister applied, but the disease has certainly become worse.' " Leeches were again applied, and were followed at a short interval by the use of the moxus on either side of the patella; but none of the remedies seemed to check the progress of the disease. The pain was so exquisite, upon any attempt to move the limb, as to preclude any satis- factory examination of the joint. Her appetite failed ; she was occasionally distressed with nausea and retching, and her bowels became greatly disordered. In short, her sufferings were so severe as to induce her to seek relief by the removal of the limb ; but when this was seriously proposed to her, she requested permission to consult her friends on the subject; and it was not until the 5th of December that she made up her mind to the operation, which was immediately performed. She seemed relieved, even before the operation was completed. She took seventy drops of laudanum, and slept a little on the following night. She left the Hospital on the 3rd of January. "On laying open the joint, after the amputation of the limb, the disease in this poor girl's knee was found to have made very extensive ravages. The preparation, which I now again exhibit to you, shows that the cartilages covering all the bones of the joint, with the exception of that on the inner condyle of the femur, were either entirely destroyed or floating loose, being completely detached from the bones." In most places the articular surfaces are covered by granu- lations, now blanched and shrivelled by spirit, but detached pieces of cartilage are seen here and there, and on the inner