Fractures of the Femur. 105 3. 172. United Intra-eapsular Fracture of the Neck.— Posterior half of the upper end of a right femur, muscles dissected off—in spirit, showing the above. "An enfeebled lady, aged 77 (November 1821), in attempting to walk from her bedroom to an adjoining apartment, slipped her foot suddenly and unexpectedly over the ledge of a landing of a flight of stairs, and immediately fell on the right hip. She attempted to rise, but found that she had completely lost the power of motion in the limb of that side. Her servants, on ooming to her assistance, found her sitting on the landing-place, her feet resting on the step below. She was immediately conveyed to bed, but being in comparatively little pain, and it being late in the evening, no medical assistance was required till next morning. I found her in the position in which she had remained during the night, resting upon her back, the right limb a little bent and apparently shortened about an inch and a half, the knee and toes con- siderably everted, the heel resting in the hollow between the ankle and the tendo-achilles of the left leg. She made no complaint, but of inability to move the leg, but all attempts to rotate the thigh occasioned consider- able pain in the situation of the trochanter major, as did also the extension of the limb to bring the malleoli-interni together, which was readily accomplished, but retraction immediately took place, and the leg returned to its original position. No crepitus could be distinguished. Judging from the history and appearances of the case, fracture of the neck of the femur had taken place, and her friends were apprised of the helpless state to which, in all probability, she would be reduced, from no complete re-union being expected. The treatment was therefore very simple. The upper part of the thigh was frequently fomented ; a broad firm bandage was constantly worn from the knee along the thigh and encircling the body. The limb was supported with pillows, and every attempt made to keep it extended, and the heel in apposition. Under this plan, she remained about five months, occasionally changing from her bed to a sofa. She then began to make some partial use of the leg, and, with the assistance of crutches and gently resting on the toes, she was enabled to move through the room. She ultimately laid aside the crutches, and walked with the assistance of a stout stick. She also, by and by, relinquished the use of the stick, and with the aid of a very high-heeled shoe she was enabled in the course of a year to walk with great facility through her house, and for more than a twelvemonth before her last illness to descend and ascend daily from one flat of her house to another to and from dinner, the knee and foot continuing considerably turned out, and the leg shortened upwards of an inch. In November 1823 she was seized with an affection of the brain, which proved fatal in April 1824." This would seem to have been an impacted intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur, for the following reasons, 1. The injury was apparently calculated to produce. viz.