400: Diseases of Bone. myeloid sarcomatous tumour, which grew from the symphysis of the lower jaw of a hoy—in spirit. William D., aged 10, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, on 23rd July 1890. About three months ago patient noticed a small lump growing on his gum. The patient had some bad teeth extracted, which were supposed to have caused the swelling. He thinks it was less for a time, but shortly afterwards began to enlarge rapidly. Since that time it has remained much the same as it is now. Growing from the inferior maxilla, in the position of the two middle and left lateral incisor teeth, there was a rounded swelling projecting into the mouth, and dusky red in colour, except at the top, where it was pigmented. It was soft to the touch and bled easily. After the patient had been in Hospital for some time the swelling became firmer. He felt no pain from it, but could not masticate his food properly, and his mouth had a nasty taste and a foetid odour. The general health and family history are good. On 12th August 1890 the patient was put under chloroform, and Mr Cathcart freely excised the tumour, with the adjacent bone, and removed one or two large glands below the angle of the jaw. In August 1892 the boy was brought to the Infirmary to report himself. There was no return of the tumour, and he was in good health. There were some slight enlargements of the lymphatic glands below the lower jaw, but they were in all probability not connected with the tumour. The section of the tumour shows that it has grown out from the centre, and has caused absorption of the greater part of the bone, except along the lower border. G. C. 3207. 6. 485. Myeloid Sarcoma of the Lower Jaw.—Left and part of right half of the body of the lower jaw of a young woman- in spirit, illustrating the above. Janet E , aged about 25, had noticed, three or four months before admission to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, a swelling on her lower iaw. It caused no pain, but she had one or two teeth removed as they were supposed to be the cause of the growth. The growth increased, and she came for advice to Dr Joseph Bell, who removed the tumour and lower jaw. The patient made a complete recovery, and now, six years afterwards, she remains in perfect health. —(C. W. U, lbw;. The bone towards the angle has been almost entirely replaced by the tumour, which has, moreover, projected exten- sively beyond it, towards both the mouth and the cheek.