Osteo-Malacia. 221 (b.) Ostco-Malacia. 6. 52. Skeleton affected with Mollities Ossium.—Skeleton of an adult woman, described by Sir Charles Bell, as follows, viz. "A skeleton of great value. In procuring this skeleton I lost my- self for two hours, and found myself at two o'clock in the morning in the court before Peunycuick House. "This skeleton differs from the others, being distorted by the disease called mollities ossium. In this woman the disease continued for many years. It was attended with incessant pain in the bones, and a deposition of the phosphate of lime from the urine ; but what was most remarkable in the case, was the many children she had, with increasing difficulties in the labours, until at length the bones of the pelvis were so closed that it was necessary to perform the Ctesarean section upon her. '' She had a cross-birth, the belly of the child protruding. She had a child with a dangerous flooding. She had a child brought away by embryulcio and the crotchet. The disease proceeded, and the distortion of the pelvis increased. She became pregnant again, and it was necessary to bring the child away piecemeal. In this operation the surgeon seems to have conducted himself with great good sense, dexterity, and persever- ance. His strength was exhausted by the exertion, so that for two days after the operation his hands and arms were benumbed. She suffered also in this painful operation, and was left for dead, and was long insensible, so that they were about to prepare her death-clothes. " She recovered and became a seventh time pregnant. The surgeon who had previously attended her now refused to attempt the extraction of the child by the crotchet. The disease in the meantime had made progress, and the pelvis was much more distorted. When I examined her on the approach of labour, the womb hung forward, so that the integuments of the belly made a tumour like a great scrotal hernia betwixt the thighs. On examination per vaginam, the promontory of the sacrum presented in the middle of the passage, and only one finger could be passed through the pelvis, with which nothing could be felt. As for the child, it lay in a manner out of the pelvis. (For a full account of the case and operation, see the fourth volume of the Medico-Chirur-ical Transactions.) The mother died, but the child lived, being the only one out of seven that was born alive. "Dissection.— Two large masses of coagula lay in the belly The cavity of the womb was filled with blood. Strings of coagula reached from the mouths of the sinuses of the womb to these coagula, as if the streaming blood had been arrested and coagulated while flowing The uterus was not contracted and the edge of the incision into it was everted as if paralytic, with the mouths of the vessels open upon it. She died of hajmorrhage. " Descriptio7i of the Skeleton.—The bones were all soft,