67 Fractures of the Spine. stomach no motion of the viscera of the abdomen could be perceived. He had no feeling even in the upper part of his chest; he had feeling on his face and neck, and indistinctly near the collar-bone. He had a motion of his hands, a sort of rolling motion, which may have proceeded from the shoulders. When he spoke it was in a tremulous voice, like a man frightened. His voice was weak, but he did not speak in a whisper; the sound of his voice was more like sighing than common breathing. Pulse was felt at his wrist. In ten minutes after he was brought in, half an hour from the time of the accident, he died." The spinous processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebra are broken off at their roots, the bodies of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae have been dislocated, and the upper part of the sixth vertebra has been fractured. The fifth transverse process has been broken on the right side, and the sixth and seventh on the left side. "It is clearly proved both by the symptoms and the dissection of the bones, that the fracture must have affected the roots of the phrenic nerves; and we are at liberty to conclude that the difference of symptoms, in comparing it with the first case (3. 71) as well as the shorter period of his sufferings, was due to this cause." (Sir Charles Bell's "Exposi- tion of Nervous System," p. 237.) B. C. 1. 4. M. 3. 71. Fracture of the Bodies and Arches of the fifth and Sixth Cervical Vertebrae.—Lower six cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, with the muscles cleaned off to show the above injury—in spirit. "Charles 0 *t. 36, fell through a window into an area thirteen feet below. He thought that he landed on his back, but was uncertain, as he lay for some time insensible. In Hospital he lay supine-legs powerless and insensible, abdominal muscles relaxed and powerless, and viscera flaccid. His water had to be drawn off with a catheter, and his fcces were passed involuntarily ; priapism was present. Skin of abdomen and up to the nipples insensible. However, he had feeling in his stomach melLnes™9 ? UP°n' ^ C°mi)lained of the Pi^B of some of his " His breathing was frequent. At each inspiration the chest was nrotnfdT a 'If k,m°Vement; at each e*Pirati°n the belly was protruded by a sudden shock and undulation (sic). The belly during tins