Necrosis from Pus-forming Organisms. 255 6. 121. Acute Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Tibia- Necrosis, great periosteal Enlargement, Amputa- tion.—Left tibia, showing an enormously thickened case of new bone round necrosed fragments. "James B., aged 20, labourer, admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, November 1825. '' Three years before amputation the disease commenced without auy cause, and with a very severe pain. Inflammation, swelling, and suppura- tion ensued a year after this. A piece of bone was discharged. The sinuses have gradually increased in number, from which a great quantity of small bones have been discharged. His general health began to suffer about three months before amputation. " On 20th November 1825 the following was observed. Upon the anterior part of his left leg are numerous small ulcerations, all of which lead down to the tibia, which can be felt to be in a state of caries. The limb, particularly at its lower part, is swollen and altered in form. From the sinuses there is a great discharge of pus, of a very foetid odour. He experiences a constant dull pain. His general health is very much im- paired, and his strength much reduced. Pulse 100. Frequent shivering and flushing of the countenance. Incessant thirst, tongue red, bowels loose. " The limb was amputated through the thigh, but the patient died of septicemia and secondary hfemorrhage." This is a beautiful example of a new periosteal shell formed round necrosed fragments. Numerous cloacal apertures may be observed, especially along the inner surface of the bone, and sequestra can be seen through these apertures, lying loose, but imprisoned within the new shell. G. C. 1000. a. 6. 122. Acute Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Tibia- Necrosis, Chronic Periosteal Enlargement. — Lower end of a right tibia—macerated, to illustrate the above. This specimen closely resembles the lower end of the previous one. No doubt there has been a similar clinical history- G. C. 1160. Presented by Professor James Russell. . 123. Acute Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Tibia—