366 Diseases of Bone. bone Amputation was now advised, bat Mr B. was induced to place himself in the hands of a quack, who applied stimulating plasters to the lee with a view, he said, of bringing on suppuration, and salivated Mr B with mercury. At the end of three months this person was dismissed, and the former medical attendant again requested to see the patient. A great change had taken place-emaciation, pale complexion, bad appetite, constipation of the bowels, a quick, weak, and irregular pulse ; the leg areatly increased in bulk and deformity, hard all over, and exquisitely painful Its surface was irregular in consequence of several large tubercles, round, firm, and elastic, and somewhat yielding to pressure.. The colour of the leg is livid and dark purple, and the tubercles of a dusky yellow, some of them superficially excoriated. The tibia, up^ to its tubercle is swelled. The knee and thigh are apparently sound, but the inguinal glands are enlarged and indurated, though not painful. ° In a consultation with Professor Russell and Dr Thomson, amputa- tion was again judged proper. This was performed, above the knee, on the 4th September last (1827). The le«r was injected with minute-size injection, and a vertical section made. The tibia nearly in its whole length appeared enlarged and degenerated into a texture more like the carcinomatous than any other The tibia at its middle seemed a little bent, as if it had yielded to the weight of the body. All the soft parts, with slight exceptions, had the same marked appearance as the tibia. ^^.i The stump healed in good time. The swelling of the inguinal .lands entirely subsided, and the patient, with occasional slight attacks of Ldisposition, recovered his former health and vigour, ff^™^ of the pulse remains, which, previous to the removal of the limb was conjectured to depend on a thickened state of the card.c valve, and was considered as no objection to the operation. _ _ The tumour, which is blanched by the spirit, has sur- rounded the tibia, and in its growth outwards has apparently partly infiltrated the muscles, partly pushed them and the tendons before it. 6.412. Osteo-Sareoma Of the Tibia—Transverse section of the tibia and tumour from previous case-in spirit, illustrating the above. , * This section of the tumour shows its relations and mode j growth even better than the last one does. G. C. 1035. a. 6. 413. Osteo-Sarcoma of the Tibia.-Macerated porti