304 Diseases of Bone. veneris formed upon his forehead, and, the integuments ulcerating, dis- closed a dead and black portion of the bone. This portion, after some months, came away. The caries extended, and a second portion was in progress of being thrown off. The dura mater burst, and fungus cerebri forming, the man sank into low delirium, with convulsions of the face, and expired." The upper part of the skull shows at various places roughness and irregularity, which seem to have healed over. Occupying the greater part of the frontal bone are two sequestra, with their surrounding grooves. The larger is on the right side, and crosses the middle line below. It shows signs of old-standing disease on its surface, and has been completely detached. The smaller one on the left side has similar marks on its surface, and is surrounded by a groove, which below has penetrated through the inner table. On the inside, near the vertex, there are marks of old-standing vascularity, but near the necrosed pieces the roughness from increased vascularity is greater, and has apparently been recent. The process of necrosis has involved the inner table in both places, but the area of necrosis is less on the inner than on the .4. * no B. C. 1. 7. M. 17. outer surface. 6 262 Syphilitic Disease of the Skull and Facial Bones, with Necrosis of the Palate.-Skull and lower jaw of a man who died from syphilis-macerated, illustrating the above. « In the month of May last (1824) I was requested by a gentleman in town to visit the individual to whom this skull belonged and found Wm lying on a couch, extremely reduced and emaciated ; the face and Ze part of the scalp covered with numerous blotches and xncrustatrons, one of" Mch was particularly prominent, and projected hke a horn over f>ip centre of the frontal bone. ^ Various superficial ulcerations and blotches were also consprcuous on his body and limbs, but these he did not seem inchned to show me 0 !? f, l Patent as he appeared to have lost all hopes of cure, and con- their full extent a he app ^ ^ rf tllLTiL r ^lel himvLylittle^ommunicative as to the history 72 complaint, and he seemed ^^*J^£fi£