Tubercular Disease of the Spine. 527 and eleventh ribs were found wanting for a distance of from two inches to two and three-quarter inches from the middle line. At the same time, the patient could localise the touch of a finger or the point of a pin all over the back and lower extremities, being in this respect much better than before. On October 7th it was noted that the disappearance of the ribs was progressing. On October 11th Mr Miller cut down upon the affected ribs on the right side to discover the cause, if possible, of the atrophy. The ribs when traced, he observed, became suddenly rough and nodular, and smaller in bulk. Portions were removed, placed in absolute alcohol, and sent to Drs Woodhead and Bruce for examination. The wound turned septic, and on October 23rd secondary htemorrhage occurred, and despite all efforts to stop it, returned repeatedly, until the patient died on November 10th from exhaustion. The specimen shows many points of great interest. The lower part of the hody of the eighth, the whole of the ninth, and the upper part of that of the tenth dorsal vertebrae are wanting, and a bridge of new bone unites the eighth and tenth dorsal bodies in front, preventing the one from sinking down upon the other. The spinous processes seen in the preparation are those of the sixth, eighth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal vertebras. The spinous process of the seventh vertebra has practically dis- appeared, so that the projection below the sixth is really the remains of the eighth spine. The ninth spine was wanting when the spine was trefined, and what remained of the tenth spine was then removed. The great part of the lamina of the tenth dorsal vertebra has also disappeared. The vertebral ends of the ninth and tenth ribs are also wanting. The intervertebral foramen for the eighth dorsal nerve has been displaced backwards, so that the nerve emerges below the lamina near the spine. The ninth nerve crosses the space in which no bone is present at all, and the tenth nerve comes through a small aperture in what seems to be the remains of the tenth lamina. The remains of the soft parts in the neighbourhood of the diseased portion are covered by recent lymph and discoloured blood-clot, the result of the abscess following the second opera- tion.