Diseases of Bone. 250 and ulna—muscles partly cleaned off and in spirit to show the above. W. B., a weaver, aged 21, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, on 21st May 1824. Fifteen weeks previously the disease began with erysipelas of the part, followed by formation of abscesses in different parts, and of sinuses similar to that now at bend of arm. Some of these have never healed, and he has had two subsequent attacks of erysipelas. Was in the House from March 23rd to April 16th. Dismissed by desire." On his second admission, "the whole of the right fore-arm is swelled and particularly tender, especially at the elbow and wrist, where the enlargement is equable and very hard, and where there are sinous openings leading down to the bone. The granulations at the mouths of these are prominent, and there is a fungus forming over the carpus a large irregular unhealthy ulcer. The joints appear anchylosed ; motions of the hand, which is distorted inwards, lost. The attempt to move the hand in any direction attended with great pain. Great general weakness and copious sweating. Pulse 102, firm; tongue clean; bowels costive; appetite pretty good." The arm was amputated by Mr Allan at about two inches above the elbow. The patient did well for three days after the operation, but on the evening of the third day he had severe rigors, followed by profuse sweating and other symptoms of pyEemia, which continued till his death. The stump suppurated extensively. The pus ran up to the shoulder and affected the joint. Patient sank exhausted on the 16th July. (See No. 6.181.) The radius is enlarged over its whole extent by develop- ment of new bone on the surface. At the back, near the lower end, there is a large fragment of dead bone, which is free above, but surrounded by a new shell below. The ulna does not appear to have been involved by the disease. G. G 981. 6. 113. Acute Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Femur- Necrosis and Rarefaction.—Loft femur-macerated, show- ing the above. '' The man received a blow from a mallet on the thigh. A deep and large abscess formed. He died. ^ An abscess surrounded the thigh-bone,, which broke when being raised." On the posterior portion of the lower end of the shaft there- is a large necrosis, smooth and white, and partially separated from the surrounding bone. The groove of separation is much deeper above than below, where at places it is very indefinite