398 D iseases of Bone. "Though prepared for something very extraordinary, I certainly was astonished at first sight of the patient. " The mouth was placed diagonally across the face, and had suffered such a monstrous distension as to measure 15 inches in circumference. The throat of the patient was almost obliterated in appearance, there being only about two inches of it visible above the sternum, so that the cricoid cartilage of the larynx was on a level with that bone. When the tumour was viewed iu profile, it extended eight inches from the front of the neck. It completely filled the mouth, and occupied all the space below it from jaw to jaw. The tongue was thrust out of its place, and lay between the teeth and cheek of the right side. The only portion of the . jaw not implicated in the disease was the right ramus and base of the same side, from the bicuspid teeth backwards. The tumour, where covered by the integuments, was uniformly very firm, and for the most part distinctly osseous. The part which appeared through the mouth was a florid, irregular, fungous-looking mass of firm consistence, from which an alarming haemorrhage had occasionally, and for the last three or four weeks there had been almost daily a discharge of blood to the extent of one or two ounces. Notwithstanding the great bulk of the tumour, the patient could move his jaw pretty freely in all directions. "With the exception of the disease now described, Penman enjoyed good health. He was a tall, well- made, though much emaciated, intelligent young man, and possessed uncommon fortitude." The tumour, along with more than half the lower jaw, was removed by Mr Syme on 7th July 1828, and the patient made a good recovery. In 1848 Mr Syme added to the above:—" About two years ago, and consequently seventeen years after this operation, I was stopped in the street by a well-dressed, respectable-looking man, who- introduced him- self as Penman. He told me that after working for several years at home as a bootmaker, he had gone in quest of better wages to New York : that he had spent ten years in America, whence he had ju?t arrived ; and that he proposed to return there after a short visit to his native country. I was no less surprised than pleased to see how little the operation had injured either his appearance or articulation. Careful inspection, indeed, was required to enable an ordinary observer to detect anything peculiar in either of these respects." (Syme's " Contributions to the Pathology and Practice of Surgery," p. 13. 1848.) & C.1185, Presented by David R. Dobie, M.D. 6. 480. Ossifying- Sarcoma of the Lower Jaw.—Right half of the body of a lower jaw—in spirit, illustrating the above. The greater part of the lower border of the bone is replaced by a sarcomatous tumour, which extends laterally on both aspects.