Periosteal Sarcomata. 369 increased towards night, and also underwent occasionally severe exacer- bations. "The lymphatic glands of the groin and of the rest of the body were carefully examined, and found not to be enlarged or otherwise affected. The motions of the hip-joint were perfect, and were performed without giving rise to pain. The limb below the knee was much emaciated. The countenance of the patient was sallow, and had an emaciated appearance, and his tongue was of a bright red colour. His body generally was not much emaciated, and his health appeared on the whole to be good." (The London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science. -Report of Case by John Struthers, Esq., House Surgeon, Royal Infirmary, vol. v., 1845.) On 13th June the thigh was amputated at the hip-joint by Dr Handyside by the transfixion method, and the patient made a «0od. recovery ; and six weeks after the operation, i.e. 5th August, he left the Royal Infirmary, with the ligatures still discharging, but the stump other- wise doing well. Soon afterwards he complained of occasional frontal headache fol- owed by pain in the left orbit and eyeball, with increased sensibility to light and lachrymation. About the middle of August a small chronic- abscess formed over the occiput. These pains subsided for a time, but by the end of September had returned with such severity as to confine him to the house By the end of October Dr Handyside drew up the following repor :-« The left eyeball was very prominent and discoloured ; almost complete loss of vision. The eyelids were so much tumefied as almost to conceal he eyeba Is, and the veins of the eyelids were very conspicuous being enlarged and tortuous. The orbit itself appeared to be also enlarged and prominent especially towards its upper and outer part, forming there a hard, ine ashc swelling. These parts were the seat of continual stinging Set1 PTnted SleeP' WaS faSt ™d™ng ^ strength Three chionic abscesses were situated over various parts of the head. wi ll 11 \ SiZe °f ^ 6gg °n the left ^Pochondrium, which was firmly adherent to and connected with the cartilages of the upper false ribs It was slightly elastic to the feel, had grown rapidly rhit decidldl f "^r ^ ^ tlle tu" * ^ orb t decidedly of a malignant character. The disease seemed to be S ated W S ^"T PartiCUk1^ in that °f ^ which had been ritated by the long retention of the ligatures, as, at the part where the "at entl bUri ' ^ protruded. The patient s body Uy was ^ ^ ^ by the continued pain and the malignant hectic. To procure sleep he ZsoZ 7r tlme " habit °f taldDg fre1Uent and ful1 *»« of the solution of the muriate of morphia." Af^r this he rapidly sank, and died on 11th November, four and a half months after the operation. No partem examination lid C The tumour is lobulated on the surface, but has infiltrated 2 A