Osteo-Malacia. 223 53. Osteo-malacian Pelvis.—Plaster cast of a pelvis, along with the lumbar vertebra? and upper ends of the femora, showing the above. "Elizabeth Thomson, aged 32, was the mother of three children. Her first labour was natural, and the child born alive. She soon became affected with symptoms of malacosteon, and two years from this labour, required, in her second confinement, the use of the crotchet. In her third labour, which happened in June 1779, she submitted to the Caesarean section, which was performed by Thomas Wood, Manchester. The child was alive, and the mother survived the operation seventy-six hours." (For the case see Mem. Medical Society of London, vol. v.) The spine has been bent to the left, and the vertebra are rotated in the usual way. The pelvis is compressed laterally in front, and the lumbar vertebra? project into its brim. The alse of the ilium are crushed forward. The pubic arch is greatly compressed, and the lower piece of the sacrum and the coccyx are flattened towards the upper part of the sacrum. This is a good example of the " beaked " or osteo-malacian pelvis. G. C. 1475. Presented by T. Kadford, Esq., through W. Campbell, F.R.C.S.E. 54. Osteo-malacia of the Femur—Portion of the lower end of the left femur of an adult—in spirit, showing the above about ?™T f 'T011' Sh°emaker> a^ed 33> elWd good health until about 1,66 when he was seized with violent pains in the knees and feet Severe headaches also came on at irregular periods. These pains were supposed to be rheumatic. He shortly afterwards injured his should and was unab e to move it for several months. In November 1768 he slipped m his shop, and fancied that he had sprained his right thi'l. He w unable to walk without the aid of a stick and a helping^ In December of same year, when being helped upstairs, he struck the toe of b okef H UP°n ^ °f St6P> aDd Cried out his th gh was broken. He was confined to bed with great pain, and the W remained much crooked and shortened. The condition was diagnosed to be Aft r the use ofsphnts for about five weeks, during which time he naTn ontmued an examination was made, and th/tibia and femur a ntr oiT:r srui^ft"10?the Hmb was bei« tt,„ i <■ 7 soft' and an incision was made over it Si. nidT mtZ haVeab°Ut C°nsistenCy °f a ri"d of ^hee and in the inside, Mi Thomson reports-" I found a dusky red orliver-colou J flesh, occupymg the whole internal part of the bone/devoid ZZZZSg,