Diseases of Joints, 522 On dissection, the body was found to be much emaciated. There was serum in both pleura, and in the pericardium, but the lungs were healthy. A tumour of the size of an egg projected from the spine into the left pleura. It consisted of a very soft sac, ('died with curd-like matter. On examining the spine more minutely, it appeared that the last cervical vertebra was slightly carious, and that the bodies of the three uppermost dorsal vertebra? had been almost wholly absorbed." Almost the whole of the bodies of the first two dorsal vertebra have disappeared. The debris of caseous material and bone— removed by maceration—has no doubt been pressed back upon the spinal cord by the weight of the head and neck. The right pedicle and lamina of the first dorsal vertebra have disappeared. Parts of the next two vertebrae on the same side are rarefied. Elsewhere the laminse, as well as the spines, do not seem to have been affected. Gr. C. 1288. Presented by William Brown, F.R.C.S.E. 7. 232. Tubercular Disease, with Destruction of Bodies,. Abscess, Paraplegia.— Left half of the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae of a boy—in spirit, illustrating the above. The patient, aged 12 years, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, on 17th October 1892. He had been treated for disease of the spine, with jackets, etc., since the age of four. He was admitted on account of partial paralysis of motion and sensation of the lower limbs, occasional involuntary passage of urine, exaggerated knee-jerk and ankle clonus, but with no fever. There was a marked angular curvature in the- eervico-dorsal segment of the spine. Double extension was applied to the head and lower limbs for six weeks without improvement. In December 1892 Professor Annandale removed the lamina? and spines of the seventh cervical and first and second dorsal vertebra?. Pus in abundance, welled up between the dura and the canal, evidently coming from the situation of the bodies in front. The patient, however, died on the same night from respiratory embarrassment and shock. At the post-mortem examination firm adhesions were found at the right apex of the lung, but no tubercular or waxy disease of any of the organs. A large caseous abscess lay in front of the bodies, corresponding to the curvature. The diseased segment was removed, and after being frozen was sawn in sagittal mesial section. The specimen shows great destruction and absorption of the bodies of the lower cervical vertebrae, with a correspond-