Sequestra after Necrosis from Pus-forming Organisms. 265 and of the integuments as well as of the body of the jaw, which is much enlarged. There is considerable purulent foatid discharge from an opening below the alveoli of first molar, where the probe can be introduced for an inch amongst carious bone. All the molar teeth and their alveoli are carious, and there is an ulcerated state of the gums in general. The affection commenced eleven weeks back similarly to toothache, became much swelled, burst and discharged matter three weeks afterwards into the mouth as above described. Has occasionally very severe pains in the" affected part. "His health has suffered much. Bowels have been very loose; pulse rather quick. Tongue foul; has poulticed the part frequently. "18th.—Health much improved. Tongue clean. Bowels still rather loose. External tumour much less, but a large mass of the bone is mov- able, along with the alveoli of all the molar teeth. "25th.— Apiece of the lower jaw-bone, of two inches in length and half-an inch in breadth, including the canal for the artery and nerve, was extracted yesterday with great ease and little pain. The cavity left was stuffed with dry lint. There is yet considerable swelling of the cheek. Health pretty good. 27th.— Another large plate of bone extracted yesterday. Granula- tions look healthy. In other respects he is quite well." 28th.—Dismissed cured. The specimen shows the usual irregularity at the separated margins. The groove which formed part of the dental canal is clearly seen. G q 991 . 155. Sequestrum, after Acute Suppurative Inflamma- tion Of the Alveolar Border.—Portion of the jaw of a child, which formed the above. The separated piece contains two milk molar teeth. G. C. 721. {d.) Eepair after the separation of sequestra. 156. Reparation of Tibia after Removal of a Seques- trum.—Sequestrum and right tibia in section—macerated, to illustrate the above. The patient, a boy, was aged eight years when the sequestrum was removed. The tibia from which it had been taken was obtained six year* afterwards, i.e. when he had reached the age of fourteen.