382 Diseases of Bone. 6. 443. Central Sarcoma of the Tibia.—Portion of a tibia— in spirit, illustrating the above. An infiltrating sarcoma has invaded and replaced the interior of the bone, and has formed a fungus mass on the surface outside. C. 185. 6. 444. Central Sarcoma of the Tibia.—Section of a left tibia periosteum removed—in spirit, illustrating the above. A sarcoma has invaded and replaced the interior of the bone, near the upper end. G- C. 3104. Presented by Macdonald Brown, F.R.C.S.E. 445. Central Large Round-celled Sarcoma of the Upper End Of the Femur.—Section of the upper end of a left femur, with portion of tumour and muscles attached —in spirit, illustrating the above. The patient, aged 22, a butcher, tall (six feet), and thin, and seems to have rather overgrown himself. Still, he has been always healthy enough, though rather subject to colds. His family history is good. In this end of February 1891 patient had "sciatica-like" pains m the left thigh, chiefly in the knee, and occasionally running up to the thigh He rubbed in a strong embrocation, and poulticed the painful places at times. On the 6th July the pain became much worse, and Dr. M was summoned. He gave him some medicine internally, and a lini- ment for the leg, which eased the pain during severe attacks. The pain was intermittent, worse at nights, and at times very severe. It prevented him from attending to his work. On 13th July he had improved and went back to work. The leg felt stiff, and he limped a little, but the pain was gone as long as the leg was kept quiet. But a slight jerk would cause intense pain, running down the front and inner side of the thigh On the 13th and 14th July he continued at his work, which required him to be on his feet for nearly the whole day. On the 1hjh. went to work, but the pain came on in the thigh so severe y that he had to go home. Dr. M. ordered rest, and he has remained m bed ever since, rarely sitting up for an hour or two at a time. The pain continued pretty "^"on 16th July a little lump appeared on the side of the thigh about . 3 inches below the great trochanter. This soon disappeared vnth rubbing. But at this time the pain was severe up and down he thigh and leg, sometimes into the foot, but always most severe at the knee.