Fractures of the Skull. 47 fragments, while the Hey saw has also been used for a similar purpose. A limited fissure below and in front of the seat of fracture indicates that the bone had been forced in by the injury. The calvarium is interesting anatomically in its having a permanent frontal suture and in its presenting several wormian bones at the lambdoidal suture. B. C. 1. 2. M. 7. 3. 21. Compound depressed Fracture of Skull—Inter- eranial Suppuration—Death.—Skull-cap of a boy, show- ing a localised fracture at the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures. " The boy from whom this skull-cap was taken received a kick from a horse. Four fissures radiated from the point where the sagittal suture joins the coronal, and there was slight depression in one part. In eight days he had no bad symptoms. The wound was dressed with a dossil of oiled linb. After that time he began to have sickness, and vomiting, and severe headache. For four more days his breathing was stertorous, the left side of his body was paralysed, and he had convulsive twitchings of the right side. Pus oozed through the fissures in the skull; the operation of trepanning was performed. The external layer of bone separated before the internal layer was sawed through ; a quantity of pus was washed away from the dura mater. The symptoms were not improved, and the boy died next clay. "Dissection.—There was extensive ulceration of the dura mater over the longitudinal sinus, and on each side of it; around the ulcer there were blotches of red inflamed parts. The dura mater was greatly thick- ened, and the ulcer had a shreddy surface, which was covered with pus of a bright yellow colour. The veins which entered into the longitudinal sinus were filled with dark coagulated blood, which could not be drawn out from the vessels. Anterior to the ulcer the longitudinal siuus was choked with a firm and light-coloured coagulum ; posteriorly a quantity of pus was squeezed out from the sinus. Under the ulcer of the dura mater, there was also ulceration of the surface of the brain in both the hemi- spheres. The pia mater was turgid with blood. There was inflamma- tion of the substance of the brain in the neighbourhood of the ulcer, but the rest of the brain appeared healthy. There was no fluid in the ventricles." The fissures on the surface indicate that the bone was driven in at the moment of impact. The case has been one of compound depressed fracture, followed by death from sepsis. B. C. 1. 2. M. 14a.