Diseases of Bone. lift as heavy a weight with the left arm as with the right, and even to the last stage, that in which I saw him, his hand was strong to grasp. In the first four months the upper part of the arm had so increased in size that the prominent part exceeded the size of his head, hut now, at the end of nine months, it greatly exceeds in size Ins emaciated body. '< When I went to receive this poor lad, I found him lying deep m the hold of a small sloop, in which he had been transported from Inverness, laid on a coarse mattress, and bolstered up against the shelving side of the vessel • and when the clothes were lifted I solemnly declare that I hardly knew It first what it was that I saw—which was the tumour and which his body or how to connect in imagination the one with the other. He lay in an inclined and irregular posture, extremely languid, and hardly able to articulate, his head inclining to one side. The tumour, when first exposed by lifting the clothes, might be mistaken for his body in respect of size it was of a suitable bulk, and when the lean, yellow, emaciated thorax was next exposed, the tumour seemed so much to exceed it in size, with a shining surface and brilliant colour, that at first I was more confounded than shocked, so impossible was it, in the first moments, to consider of it as a tumour, or to see its relation to the arm. The forearm was dwindled and shrunk, and projected from the tumour at a strange and unnatural distance from the shoulder. The veins were swelled, like these of a horse's belly ; large fungous tumours, as big as oranges, projected m a -roup from the outside of the arm at the place where, about two months before, a large abscess had burst; and such was the fcetor of the matter running from under these fungi and the languor of this poor emaciated creature, that I had no thought for the present but how to get him conveyed alive to town. After a few days, when he was somewhat recovered from the fatigues of the voyage, I proceeded to write down the history, and examine the actual state of this tumour. I found it through- out solid, consisting chiefly of bone, little cartilaginous, hardly m any part elaskc or yielding, and discharging matter, not from any superficia abscess but apparently from the centre of this enormous mass. I had every reason to believe that the bone and the joint, which certamly were neither broken nor dislocated, had been generally injured, not merely by the shock but by the bruise ; that the parts nearest the bone, and connected with it by the periosteum, had been bruised and inflamed ; that the extreme pain for the first twenty-four hours indicated only the llence oTth'e immediate injury, but the slow vascular action which Tcceeded at the distance of a month proved how deeply the circulation of the bone -as affected, and caused that osseous secretion which generated Ms prodigious shell of bone, while the shaft of the shoulder-bone, from he periosteum of which this callus had been secreted was in part destioyed by an ulcerating process within. That the ulceration, deep] Jeat d not oynly in the bone but in the joint, occasioned those excruciat- Z ortures which were announced by wild and desperate cries night and day U L matter, bursting at last through every obstacle, had made it,