Periosteal Sarcomata. 371 from walking. The swelling varied in size from time to time and the pain which increased with the swelling was greater at night ' It was sometimes sharp, sometimes aching. Blistering was tried without avail Ihere was difficulty at first in diagnosing between tubercular disease of the knee-joint and sarcoma of the lower end of the femur. The latter however was finally decided upon, and on the 10th of September amputation was performed at the hip-joint. Two days afterwards he died. The disease seems to have begun in the periosteum, just above the epiphyseal line, and to have spread in all directions, i.e., along the surface of the bone and into the medulla, into the soft textures of the joint, and outwards into the thigh. The disease has extended higher under the periosteum than it has in the medulla. The specimen was injected first with carmine and gelatine, and afterwards with tallow and vermilion, and the latter injection mass can be seen in numerous medium-sized arteries at the margin of the tumour, and also in many places within its substance. q q 2g07 Presented by James Hodsdon, F.E.C.S.E. 6. 422. Periosteal Sarcoma of Femur and Knee-Joint - Small portion of the femur from the previous'specimen- macerated, to illustrate the above. The surface of thecondyle, and of the shaft of the femur for four or five inches above it, is rarefied and partly absorbed. Above that there has been a slight but distinct development of the spicular bone characteristic of ossifying sarcomata. This, as it is traced upwards, forms a porous crust, which fades gradually away, but its margin is distinguishable from the surface above which is that of ordinary periosteal irritation. G. C. 2807. b. Presented by James Hodsdon, F.R.C.S.E. 6. 423. Periosteal Sarcoma of Femur and Knee-Joint.-Glue and glycerine cast of the knee-joint in the foregoing case, before operation. _ _ The cast shows well the globular swelling of the knee joint, which rendered the diagnosis at first so difficult. Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E.