305 Syphilitic Necrosis. part of the glands; that he had also been affected with buboes in the groins, and subsequently with ulceration of the throat, cutaneous eruptions, and exfoliation of spieulte of bone from the nostrils ; that he had laboured under the disease for three or four years, had been under the care of various practitioners, and had used much mercury, besides other remedies. " He was now, I found, using the decoction of sarsaparilla under the direction of Dr Kennedy, which I desired him to continue ; and after consulting with Dr Kennedy we agreed to prescribe the Plummer's Pills, of which he was directed to take three daily along with the decoction. Under this course a rapid amendment took place ; the incrustations- dropped off from his skin ; he recovered his looks and flesh, and in short complained of nothing but an offensive discharge from the nostrils. His- spirits got up, and he seemed to entertain sanguine hopes of recovery. In this state he came over from the Old Town to my house late one evening in the month of July, during the prevalence of a cold easterly wind; he complained of having caught cold, was exceedingly hoarse, and upon inspection the palate and fauces were found considerably inflamed. On enquiry I ascertained that of late he had been repeatedly out at night, and had been living altogether in a very irregular and dissipated manner! I ordered him home instantly, desired him to confine himself entirely to the house, to lay aside the use of the Plummer's Pills, to take a dose of salts, and to go into the warm bath ; which directions, with the exception of the confinement, I have reason to believe he complied with. "Soon after this an ulcer broke out in the palate immediately behind the incisors-the velum palate and tonsils also became ulcerated—the offensive discharge from the nostrils increased—pieces of the inferior spongy bone exfoliated-the teeth dropped from their sockets-and though mercury in every form had for some time been kid aside a. copious salivation now commenced, owing to the irritation from the diseased state of his mouth affecting the salivary ducts and glands He was unable to take almost anything in the shape either of food or medi- cine. Of the latter nothing was recommended to him but bark laudanum, laxations, and an alum gargle. He continued to linger for several weeks, and expired about the beginning of November, greatly emaciated, and exhausted by hectic fever. "On examining the exterior surface of the cranium, a circular portion of the right parietal bone, about the size of a shilling, may be observed flattened and somewhat rough; from this an exfoliation had taken place previous to the patient's coming under my care. On the interior surface of the bone opposite to this spot the impressions of numerous small vessels are to be seen deeply indented into the bone, and giving it a rough scabrous feel. "On the internal aspect of the frontal bone two circular U