Tumours of Uj^per Jcav. 407 right side, shooting to the crown of the head. These soon became so severe that he was unable to tell whether they originated in the gums or in the head. They were augmented in the night, but fortunately some times were relieved by perspiration, to which he was somewhat subject. The right side of the face, from the eye downwards to the mouth, now began to swell, attended by a degree of numbness, affecting chiefly the wing of the nose and the upper lip. The patient, conceiving the numbness to depend on languid circulation, used friction, which, having no effect, he tried bathing the neighbouring parts with rum. This, however, aggravated the pain. He then put himself upon low diet, bathed his feet now and then at bed-time, and took occasionally laxatives, but all to no purpose. His eyes now became tender and sore, but showed little tendency to inflame. The eye of the affected side soon became weaker and the vision to be so much impaired that he dreaded he would lose the sight of it. It shortly afterwards became swollen and protruded. " On the day of his arrival in town he had a robust constitution, had a firm step, a hale voice, and a round full face. But the right eye was swollen and protruded, the eyelid tumid and oedematous, with tunica conjunctiva bulging out from beneath them, thus completely shutting up the eye. He complained of the same toothache-like pains affecting the jaw and darting to the crown of the head ; the benumbed sense of feeling in the ala nasi and mouth. These parts hung loosely, and quivered when he spoke, indicating paralysis. On opening the eyelids, the eye itself was sound and of its natural form and size, but evidently raised from its socket. There was no swelling in the cheek, no obstruction in the nostril, no disease of the teeth, no tumour in the throat. But by introducing the finger within the mouth, there could be felt a small tumour immediately above the first grinding tooth'of the affected side; and on the outside this felt soft. By pressing this tumour a yellow serum flowed out at the nostril. The gum covering the bulbous process of the superior maxillary bone, and where the three backmost grinders had been, felt soft and spongy,' resembling softened bend-leather. These teeth had gradually decayed. They had not been forced out by the disease. He was able to eat pretty heartily, and take a walk around the town." The tumour increased rapidly, and the patient's system sunk accordingly. On 6th September, Mr Bell, under whose care he was, attempted partial operation, but the tumour was not removed, and the patient got rapidly worse, and died on the 28th. "Dissection.— The ball of the eye had suppurated and burst. The cheek was one great abscess. The cheek bone and walls of the antrum were completely carious. The tumour was now seen arising from the fatty substance at the bottom of the eye, and the upper and part of the antrum, and from these running obliquely outwards to the cheek, where it was bound down to the alveolar processes by adhesions. In some places the tumour was lobular, and resembled in form and colour a salivary gland, while in others it was granular and gristly. Around the membranous