69 Fractures of the Spine. sensible, though, his jaw was locked. His convulsions returned, and he was relieved by bleeding. In a few hours his jaw began to move with great rapidity, and continued moving in an extraordinary manner for nearly five minutes, when all at once he exclaimed that he could speak. He was maniacal. He proved he was not at all paralytic, for it required two men to hold him., and he almost sprung out of bed to be revenged on the nurse. He passed a great deal of feces and flatus with singular force. In twelve hours he became again rational. On the third day after the attack of convulsions he complained of difficulty in using his arm, and two days after he had total palsy of the lower extremities, which was more remarkable as at this time he regained the use of his arm. He lived for a week after this, but continued sinking, and still retained about him much of the character of typhus fever. The day before his death he was perfectly sensible, and had recovered sensation in his legs, for he could feel the rubbing of a finger upon them. At this time, although he appeared to pass his faeces involuntarily, still he passed them with great force, and he was able to eject an enema which was given contrary to his desire. Dissection.—The brain was examined carefully, and nothing was remarked except a little effusion between the pia mater and tunica arachnoides. On cutting the muscles by the side of the last cervical vertebra, a little pus oozed out. It was found to come from between the vertebra?. On dissecting up the muscles, there was found to be an evident loosening of the last cervical from the first dorsal vertebras. The inter- ventral substance was completely destroyed, and an immense quantity of pus surrounded them. On the back part the pus had extended under the scapula, and on the fore part was bounded by the oesophagus. On examining the spinal canal, the pus was found to have dropped down the whole length of the sheath to the cauda-equina." (See Bell's "Surgical Observations," 1816, p. 145.) There is a complete dislocation, without apparent fracture. The anterior ligament is stripped off the seventh cervical vertebra, but without being torn through; the other ligaments have been ruptured. B. C. 1. 4. M. 6. .74. Partial Dislocation forwards and Fracture of the Sixth Cervical Vertebra.—Last three cervical and first dorsal vertebra?—partially macerated, dried and varnished, showing the above condition of the sixth vertebra. Paralysis of the body below. He lived twenty hours. (Case of William "Wood, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, 1804.) On the left side the lower articular process of the sixth