Arthritis Deformans and Fracture of Hip. 497 if ever, formed anew, far less in this disease where it is largely absorbed, the alternative of downward displacement of the bone seems inevitable. q q 921 J. 181. Arthritis Deformans, following Fracture of the Neck Of the Femur.—Upper end of a right femur and acetabulum—macerated, illustrating the above. " The man was aged about 60 years. Ten years previous to his death the patient slipped his foot upon a stone, but did not fall. Next day he felt swelling in his groin, and became lame ever after. A new joint had been formed. The capsular ligament was thickened, and its cavity was much increased in size. The parts had become curiously adapted to each other by absorption and new deposition of bone, so as to admit of some use of the limb." The head and neck of the femur are entirely wanting, and the surface of the bone where the neck was attached is now quite smoothed over, there being only some irregularity round its margin. The acetabulum is greatly altered. A new surface has been hollowed out at its upper and back part by friction, evidently against the femur at the side of the neck. The remains of the original acetabulum shows irregularity of the former cartilaginous srrrface, with enlargement round about. Apparently there had been an intra-capsular fracture of the neck, with an after absorption of the ununited head. G. C. 1479. Presented by Professor J. W. Turner and A. Watson, Esq. 182. Arthritis Deformans, following- Fracture of the Neck of the Femur.—Upper end of a right femur with the innominate bone—macerated, illustrating the above. This specimen was originally entered as a fracture in which union of the fibro-cartilage had taken place. There is considerable irregularity all over the innominate bone and femur, especially at the muscular attachments. The acetabulum is filled in, but this on examination of the section proves to be due to an anchylosis of the head of the femur within the acetabulum. On the other hand, the head