83 Fractures of the, Humerus. left scapula and the upper end of a humerus, with the muscles dissected off and the capsule laid open, so as to expose the joint from the front—in spirit—showing the above injury. The patient, Mary Kidd, set. 55, fell down some stone steps on Saturday night, December 29, 1827. When admitted to the Eoyal Infirmary, Edinburgh, on January 2, 1828, the following report was made :—"The whole of the left upper extremity is ecchymosed and much swollen ; there is a distinct crepitus near the upper end of the humerus, and during the rotation of the bone the head remains motionless, the lower end of the bone is drawn in towards the chest, pulse 100 and feeble, belly costive, tongue furred, the pain at the upper part of the limb has been constantly upon the increase." On the 4th of January the patient was observed to be labouring under the symptoms of delirium tremens; she had been constantly talking during the preceding night, and did not answer questions ration- ally ; had much tremor of the hands, pulse 90, skin cool, tongue moist. These symptoms continued with considerable variation and with occasional intermissions until about the 18th, when a considerable slough was observed on the sacrum and right buttock. This increased pro- gressively notwithstanding the use of every means to protect the parts from pressure, and she expired on the 28th January. The head of the hone has been separated along nearly the line of the anatomical neck, and the tuberosities and upper part of the shaft have been severely comminuted. This has probably been the result of a blow directly upon the shoulder. G. C. 1100. Presented by Sir George Ballingalt,. 105. Recent Fracture through the Anatomical Neck with Comminution of the Tuberosities. —Upper end of a left humerus, with the muscles dissected off—in spirit- showing the above injury. The head is separated by a fracture following the line of the anatomical neck, and the greater tuberosity is comminuted. This also has probably been the result of a blow directly upon the shoulder. G. C 2657 Presented by Dr Watson. 106. Fracture through the Anatomical Neck and greater Tuberosity.—Head and tuberosities of a right