Tubercular Disease of the Spine. 519 The patient, a middle-aged woman, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, with a large abscess in the left iliac region. There was no spinal curvature, nor any history of definite pain, pointing to spinal disease, but by exclusion this was considered the most probable cause or* the abscess. Owing to the woman's weak state of health, any operation was postponed, and she meanwhile died of rapidly advancing phthisis. At the post-mortem examination an abscess was found running along the iliac fascia to the spine, and extending also under the thigh in a line with the psoas muscle. The intervertebral disc between the last two lumbar vertebrae has been destroyed. The front of the last vertebra is eroded, while some nodules of new bone have been formed on the left side of the fourth vertebra. G. C. 3452. Presented by Charles "W. Cathcaiit, F.R.C.S.E., 1892. 7. 226. Tubercular Disease, with Advancing: Displacement. —Last dorsal and upper two lumbar vertebrae of a woman who '■' died of lumbar abscess "—macerated. The intervertebral cartilages were found softened, and the ligaments loose and spongy, as if macerated by the pus which was round the diseased part. The bodies of the vertebrae have partly been consumed, and one vertebra is seen to be sinking down, and, as it were, dove-tailing itself into the one below. There are numerous spots of rarefaction on the sides of the bodies, and some form apertures, showing necrotic bone within. Some of the ribs on the left side were " diseased a similar way." B. C. 1, 3. M. 50. B. Specimens illustrating distinct loss of substance leading to alteration of the curves. The plan adopted in arranging the specimens has been as far as possible to illustrate advancing stages of the disease in the various regions of the spinal column, beginning from above downwards. 7. 227. Tubercular Disease, involving- Atlas and Axis.— First four cervical vertebrae—macerated, illustrating the above. The right lateral mass of the atlas, with its articular surface, has been for the most part destroyed, and the exposed bone is