Diseases of Bone. 402 B. Upper Jaw an.d Facial Bones. 6. 490. Fibroma Of the Upper Jaw.—Wax cast of an enormous tumour of the upper jaw of a woman, successfully removed by Mr Eobert Liston. "Mrs Fraser, aged 40, from Banchoiy-Ternan, Aberdeenshire, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh on the 13th of October 1834, under the care of Mr Liston. "About six years ago she received a blow over the antrum, from the head of a child, immediately after which she perceived a slight hard- ness in the part which had been struck. This did not increase for some time after, but at the end of two years a distinct tumour was felt on the cheek. It grew very rapidly during the two following years. At this time she became pregnant, when, she says, it increased very much, especially after the quickening of the child. She had never suffered very much pain in it. About a year ago she had another child, since which time the catamenia have never appeared. The tumour seemed to her to grow more vascular after she had passed the menstrual period, and since then bleeding to a slight extent has occurred from the unbroken surface of the gums and inner surface of the tumour at these times when she should have been unwell. " On her admission the tumour presented the following appearance : —The left side of the face is completely occupied by an immense growth, which obstructs the eye of that side, rising to a level with the forehead, extending back to the ear, and bulging down below the inferior maxilla, but not attached to it. From the part of the tumour next to the ear to that part in front of the face, it measures about nine inches. The mouth is •completely drawn to the left side, and there is a constant discharge of saliva from it. She keeps a handkerchief constantly applied to it by the hand, to concentrate the sound of her voice when speaking, and to collect the saliva. She is unable to open her mouth above three-fourths of an inch. The tumour bulges considerably into the cavity of the mouth, but there is no difficulty of swallowing. The nose is also twisted to the left side but she can breathe through it pretty easily. From these distortions the face has a truly frightful appearance. Numerous large veins are seen beneath the integuments of the tumour, and arteries of considerable size are felt beating in it. Her general health is good, and she has firmly made up her mind to undergo the operation for removal of the tumour, on account of its inconvenience and unsightliness." (From "Observations on some Tumours of the Mouth and Jaw," by Robert Liston, Esq., mthe 20th vol 1837, of the Medico-Chirurgicai Transactions, London.) About two years afterwards the following note was given by the patient's local medical attendant, and is appended to Mr Liston's observa- tions previously quoted from. '' Having seen the mother of the lady ,vith the gold palate yesterday, I am enabled to assure you that she continues perfectly well. She finds Nasmyth's apparatus answer ad.uir-