Moist Senile Gangrene. 593 shrunk, but its lumen is still recognisable. The vessel wall throughout its whole extent is infiltrated with calcareous particles. The peroneal artery is likewise obliterated at its upper part, but the clot seems more recent. Lower down the condition of this vessel is similar to that of the posterior tibial artery. The veins were found empty and are nowhere throm- bosed. The anterior tibial artery is obliterated at its upper part, while lower down its lumen is contracted and is in places obliterated. The gangrenous and sloughing state of the fore- part of the foot is well shown. The great toe was amputated at a previous operation. G. C. 3377. Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E., 1892. 72. Moist Senile Gangrene of the Foot and Leg-.—Lower part of a left leg and part of foot, blood-vessels dissected—in spirit, illustrating the above. The forepart of the foot was removed for convenience in mounting the specimen. The patient, a woman aged 68, had a history of gradually increasing debility for a year, but with no premonitory symptoms of gangrene in the limb. A severe pain in the left foot and lower half of the left leg occurred suddenly, four months before her admission to the infirmary. Three days later the foot grew cold. The pain increased, and discolouration of the parts began. The latter gradually increased, but the pain subsided There was no known cause for the onset of the disease. The le<r was amputated, and the patient made a good recovery. The posterior tibial artery is completely blocked at its upper part by a firm clot, which has apparently become adherent to the walls. The blocking continues down to about where the peroneal artery is given off. The continuation of the posterior tibial artery was accidentally removed in dissecting the. specimen, but a small portion left at the upper end shows the vessel to have been greatly contracted. Its coat is thin, and only a few particles of lime salts can be felt upon it. The peroneal artery, although the larger of the two, is small and contracted, and its interior is occupied by a fine clot. Its coat also is only slightly thickened, and contains but few calcareous particles 2 p