Arthritis Deformans of Hip-joint. 493 174. Advanced Arthritis Deformans.—Bones forming a right hip-joint—macerated, illustrating the above. "From a man who died of disease of the hip-joint. The capsular ligament was much relaxed, and much coagulable lymph was thrown out in the cellular membrane round it. The ligamentum teres was entirely destroyed. The cartilaginous surfaces of both bones were much eroded. The acetabulum was nearly filled up with coagulable lymph. The head of the femur was dislodged from this cavity, and placed on the upper and posterior of it. The head of the bone has, from ulceration, become less, and the size of the cavity greater from the same cause. Some deposition of fresh bony matter has taken place in the innominatum in the neighbour- hood of the acetabulum. (This preparation, and the history of the case, I had from Mr Brodie, 1807.) " The head of the bone is enlarged at its circumference by- new bone, which is also present on the neck in front. At the same time the upper and inner part of the head has been absorbed, but the surface of the remaining bone, though some- what porous, is eburnated. The rest of the head of the bone, especially on the front, is rarefied and irregular. Some new bone has been thrown out at the attachment of the gluteus maximus, on the small trochanter and along the spiral line. The alterations in the cavity of the acetabulum correspond to those of the femur; the usual gap at the bottom is filled up with rough and porous bone, and the articular surface at the upper part is eburnated. The cavity of the acetabulum is shallow, but the margin of the bone is irregularly prolonged, especially at the upper part. The above appearances are typical of "arthritis deformans." W. C, H. 43. 175. Advanced Arthritis Deformans.—Bones forming a left hip-joint—macerated, illustrating the above. " The limb was fixed by an imperfect anchylosis with the body." The head of the femur is greatly enlarged round the margin, especially below, but at the upper and inner part it is consider- ably absorbed. The articular surface is porous, but eburnated over the greater part of its upper aspect. The acetabulum is partly filled up at the bottom, and is prolonged upwards and