Fractures of the Spine. 71 3. 77. Crushing- of the Body of the fifth Dorsal Vertebrae with Fracture of several Spines and Ribs.—Lower five cervical and upper seven dorsal vertebras, with the adjacent portions of ribs—macerated and dried, showing the above injury. The patient, a man, having fallen from a height of 50 feet, landed on his shoulders, and was instantly killed by compression of the cord just below the medulla oblongata (see 3. 64). The whole of the body of the fifth and the upper part of that of the sixth dorsal vertebrae have been comminuted by crushing. There is also fracture of the seventh cervical and first four dorsal spines, and fracture of the first, second, third, fourth, and sixth right ribs, and of the fifth and sixth left ribs at their articulations with the bodies and the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The crushing of the fifth body has probably been caused by the forcible forward bending of the spine, while the injury to the spinous processes and ribs may have been the result of direct violence. B. C. 1. 4. M. 15. 3. 78. Severe Crushing- and Comminution of the Body of the sixth and Part of that of the seventh Dorsal Vertebra?.—Lower part of the third and following six dorsal vertebrae, with the adjacent parts of the ribs. The muscles and most of the ligaments are cleaned off—in spirit—showing the above injury. "Thomas Wills, eet. 30, while trying to extinguish a fire, fell from the roof of a house for a distance of two stories, and landed with his back upon the pavement. (He seems to have been doubled forwards, and perhaps turned a somersault as he struck the ground.) " No injury to the spine was to be felt, but he had lost sensation of and motion in all the lower part of his body and lower extremities. The bladder and intestines were insensible to their natural stimuli; ho complained of a pain in his back, and referred it to the middle dorsal vertebra?. "Respiration was performed by a heaving of his chest, the abdomen being full and flaccid. There was a catch in his breath from pain running round his ribs on a line with the injury of the spine. "For six days he remained in this state, the catheter being used twice daily.