595 Moist Senile Gangrene. The brachial artery, when laid open, was found to be atheromatous, and at its bifurcation had fibrinous clots, which partly obstructed its lumen. The upper part of the ulnar artery was patent, though atheromatous, but in the upper end of the radial artery a firm clot completely occluded about an inch of the lumen. On the radial side of the limb the gangrene extends higher than in the ulnar side. Moreover, on the radial side, and posteriorly, the line of demarcation is complete ; while on the ulnar side, and anteriorly, it is incomplete. These differences on the two sides may be associated with the differ- ence in the patency of the respective arteries. Attention is directed to the important parts of the arteries by means of blue rods. This specimen may be taken as an illustration of what is probably always the case in moist senile gangrene, i.e., that besides a greatly impaired condition of the local circulation, there is a septic fermentation in the tissues. On this account, so long as any circulation remains, it is in a condition of inflam- mation. The tissues, moreover, which from their impaired nutrition were unable to resist the entrance of sepsis, soon die after it has been established. Thus an area of septic inflam- mation once begun rapidly advances and soon ends in gangrene. By the time the process has passed through the region whose circulation has primarily been impaired, the patient may have sunk from septic absorption, or the even previously well- nourished tissues may have become hopelessly saturated with decomposing fluids from the part beyond. The general symptoms of moist senile gangrene may be traced to septic absorption and pain. q. q 2790 Presented by G. M. Johnston, M.D., 1888. Other Forms of Gangrene. 75. Gangrene from Constriction.-Left leg and gangrenous foot of a child—in spirit, illustrating the above. The foot and leg had been put up in plaster of Paris. After several weeks the child was brought back, and when the plaster case was removed