Fractures of the Spine. 77 At first lie was said to have had some movement in his legs, but by the time he reached the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, all motion and sen- sation in his lower extremities had disappeared. His bladder was paralysed, and in two days hematuria began and continued. In spite of every care in cleansing the catheter used to draw off his water, septic cystitis appeared in a few days, and carried him off about a week after the accident. At the post-mortem examination the mucous membrane of the bladder was found greatly congested, and at places sloughing. The con- gestion extended up both ureters. The left kidney was bruised. The end of the spinal cord and beginning of the cauda equina have been crushed between the laminae of the twelfth dorsal and the body of the first lumbar vertebrae. The anterior part of the first lumbar vertebra has been so much crushed that the anterior margins of the last dorsal and second lumbar vertebrae nearly meet. G. C. 2799. Presented by John Duncan, F.R.C.S.E. 88. Fracture of the Spinal Column at the Level of the second Lumbar Vertebra.—Lower part of the last dorsal and first three lumbar vertebrae—muscles cleaned off—in spirit, showing the above injury. '' A young man, named Auton, 25 years of age, a plasterer, fell from a height of 40 feet, and in his descent his back struck against the corner of a stone stair, about 18 feet from the ground. "When brought to the Hospital, a swelling was to be felt over the lower dorsal vertebra. On pressing the finger deep, a depression or interval betwixt the spinous processes could be distinguished. He complained of great pain in the part, and all over the abdomen. He breathed naturally, and was perfectly sensible; there was no defect of motion or of feeling in the lower extremities. He was bled to sixteen ounces, twelve leeches were applied to his back, and he had a dose of the house physic. He was admitted September 12th, 1816. " 13th.— He has passed a restless night. He is in great pain ; he vomits everything he takes; the purgative mixture was rejected, and he had no relief in his bowels. An enema ordered. '' 1 Uh. —He is delirious. H is pulse frequent, not full; his skin hot. He passes his fasces and urine involuntarily, but there is no flaccidity of the abdominal muscles, and he has the perfect use of his limbs. " 15iA.—This young man's condition is very threatening ; his pulse is 136. He was delirious during the night, and threw himself out of bed. He is now in a state of extraordinary excitement, and although he has