557 Sarcomata. Presented by W. Brown, F.K.C.S.E. poultices, and at the end of a fortnight the most prominent part of the tumour burst, and discharged a quantity of thin, bloody, ichorous matter. The discharge continued, and became very offensive to the smell; the pain increased, the swelling enlarged, and a fungous excrescence appeared at the opening from which the matter had been discharged. She became feverish, restless, and uneasy, and the case being considered cancerous, she came to Edinburgh. The amputation of the arm being thought necessary, the operation was performed. The tumour on dissection presented a structure in every respect similar to that described in page 107 (9. 50b), and delineated in plate v. Nothing particular occurred during the progress of the cure, excepting that the ligature on the brachial artery did not come away till about three months after the operation. Soon afterwards she was attacked by violent pains in the leg and thigh, which were supposed to be rheumatic, and several swellings appeared in the breast, and one near the spine, which, from what'l could learn, probably resembled the original swelling of the arm. I never saw her after this time; but I was informed that she died in great agony, in seven months from the time the arm was amputated. Fide "Observa- tions on Fungus Haematodes or Soft Cancer, etc., with Cases and Dissec- tions. By James Wardrop, F.R.S.E., F.R.C.S.E., etc., 1809, page 113. The breadth of the arm seems to have been exaggerated by flattening of the cast. ]? p q 2905. 42. Sarcoma Of Thigrh.-Section of a large tumour and adjacent skin—in spirit. It was removed from the thigh of a man aged 40 years. The tumour is somewhat lobulated, and has on section a fibrous appearance, with numerous small cysts. Its section resembles that of No. 7. 41 ■ the fibrous appearance, however, being more marked, and the cysts smaller. G. C. 745. 43. Cystic Sarcoma.—Section of a very large cystic sarcomatous tumour—in spirit. It was extirpated from among the muscles of the thigh, but the patient died from the operation. The cut surface shows the tumour to be composed of a delicate fibrous network, enclosing a soft material, which in many places has been replaced by cysts, some of considerable S1Ze" G. C. 107.