Fractures of the Skull. 53 rent. This is to be accounted for on the principle of counter fissure" (Sir Charles Bell). B. C. 1. 2. M. 6. 3. 36. Comminution of the Skull resulting- from a Fall. —Calvariurn of a man—macerated—showing a very great comminution of the right side and fissures on the left. The patient was leaning out of a window in a court in the High Street. He lost his balance, and, after falling about thirty feet, landed on his head on the stone pavement below. He was brought at once to- the Infirmary, but when admitted seemed to be dying. His head was flattened on the right side, and his right eye protruded from the orbit. There was no bleeding from ears, nose, or pharynx. A prominence in the back of the pharynx was taken to be a dislocation of the cervical vertebra, and an unsuccessful attempt was made to reduce it. His pulse was slow and weak, and his breathing shallow and irregular. He died in about half an hour after the accident. The amount of comminution is indicated by the number of wires necessary to hold the fragments together, after the soft parts were removed. The following specimen is the other part of this skull. G. C. 3094. Presented by Macdonald Brown, F.R.C.S.E. 3. 37. Extensive Comminution of the Skull.—Base of the skull, with the three upper cervical vertebras from the same patient as the previous specimen was taken from. The soft parts have been removed, except the dura mater and some ligaments. The anterior fissure seen passing forwards on the right side in the previous specimen can now be traced into the frontal bone, and thence downwards in the roof of the right orbit, to end in the mesial line near the foramen magnum. The roof of the right orbit and the outer wall of the right middle fossa are greatly comminuted. The right malar bone was broken, and a fissure (enlarged accidentally in cleaning the bone) involved the right half of the palate. On the left side there is a fissure beginning just above the external auditory meatus, and running irregularly