Caries from Pus-forming Organisms. 235 6. 83. Acute Suppurative Inflammation in the Lower Epiphysis of the Femur (Acute Epiphysitis).—Outer half of the right knee of a boy aged four—injected, aud in spirit, showing the effects of the above. J. G. was admitted to "Ward 18 on the 12th February 1890. He had a satisfactory family history and good previous health. About the beginning of January he had been suddenly seized with a severe pain in the right knee when asleep, and the leg became firmly flexed. This subsided, but was followed by frequent muscular spasms, producing complete flexion and great pain. These increased in severity, and became worse at night. A swelling then appeared in the region of the knee, and these attacks ceased. On admission, he was very weak and thin. The limb was flexed, but could be straightened, and there was considerable swelling in the region of the knee, with pain and tenderness limited to the lower parts of the femur. The knee was treated by extension, afterwards by Scott's dressing and a plaster case. On removing these there were pains on the inner side over the epiphysis, and thickening of the synovial membrane. On the 11th March the painful spot was incised and pus escaped. No bare bone. Uth March.— The temperature, pain, and swelling were worse, and the wound was 1' septic." 20th March.— Explored and a necrosis of the femur diagnosed. Part of the epiphyseal cartilage was diseased. The joint was opened into and drained. April 1.—The patient has been going down-hill, suffering from septicemia, so Mr Cathcart amputated through the thigh. The patient recovered. The softening and destruction of the epiphysis and adjacent portion of the shaft is distinct. An abscess had started to burrow up into the popliteal space. G. C. 3179. Presented bij Charles W. Cathcaet, F.R.C.S.E. 6.84. Acute Suppurative Inflammation of the Lower End of the Femur, with Erosion and Rarefaction.— Lower end of the shaft of a right femur (epiphysis wanting) —macerated, showing the above. "The patient, G. Y., aged 16, stated that, seven weeks ago, while walking, he was tripped, and his knee came in contact with a small stone. This caused no visible injury. He continued walking for two days after, when his knee swelled and became extremely painful. These symptoms, accompanied with much febrile irritation, continued for a month, during which time leeches and cold applications were first em- ployed, and afterwards poultices and fomentations. Three weeks &*o an