54 Injuries of Bone. upwards into the vault, while there is also a horizontal fissure in the frontal bone, starting from the fissure already noted there, and extending nearly to the fissure in the left temporal fossa. This specimen is important as showing that extensive comminu- tion of the vault and of the base, extending also into the bones of the face, may result from a fall upon the head. No dislocation of the cervical vertebrae existed. A large ha3matoma had produced the swelling in the pharynx. G. C. 3095. Presented by Macdonald Brown, F.R.C.S.E. 3. 38. Compound Fracture of the Vault of the Skull extending- into the Base—Pyaemia--Death.—Calvarium —macerated—from a man aged 20, with separation of the left half of the coronal suture, and a small localised fracture just above the temporal ridge on the left side. On 27th July 1815 the patient was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, with the history of having fallen a height of 30 feet on to his head. He had a scalp wound over the seat of fracture, and another above the left eye-brow. There was no bleeding from the nose or ears, and the patient was quite sensible. Pulse 66. He had slight vomiting at times, and his face had an anxious look. In the evening, as his pulse was 74, and as he complained of headache and restlessness, he was bled to 16 ounces, with little benefit. Next day four leeches were applied to each temple. On the third day the patient seemed wonderfully well, but some inflammation had begun round the temple wound. On the seventh day this wound was suppurating, and the bone below was bare. Five leeches were applied to each temple. The wound was poulticed, and antimony and saline mixture were given internally. From this time in spite of repeated leeching and bleeding, he grew gradually worse with headache, rapid pulse, and at first restlessness. Afterwards he became drowsy, and before death comatose. Rigors and vomiting .occurred on the seventeenth and eighteenth days. On the nineteenth day he was trepanned, and the diploe was found to be purulent. On the twentieth day after the accident he died. And on August 16th, at the post-mortem ■examination, about four ounces of blood was found lying over the left orbit The dura mater below the seat of operation was sloughy externally, and internally was covered by purulent matter for some distance round The fracture on the frontal bone was traced down to the base of the skull.