Recurrent Fibroid Tumours. 563 27th August 1870 she .applied to Professor Spence again on account of a second growth in her breast near the cicatrix of the last operation. It had been growing for some months, and had reached the size of a small melon. This was also removed successfully. On 2nd June 1871 Professor Spence was called to see her. She was then in a moribund condition from broncho- pneumonia and pericarditis, with inability to swallow even fluids. There was a discharging ulcer in her right arm-pit. This had been due to a. swelling which formed near the cicatrix of the last operation, and had then burst and discharged matter. At the post-mortem examination numerous small white nodules were found in the left pleural sac, varying from the size of a millet seed to that of a pea. There was a fibrous structure of the oesophagus near the stomach, and three fibroid tumours attached to the uterus. It is difficult to say whether the axillary ulcer was due to a softening tumour or not. Possibly a recurrent tumour had given rise to the nodules in the pleura. This case is referred to by Sir James Paget in his lectures on Pathology. The specimen shows a somewhat uniform texture without any capsule separating it from the fascia? round about. On the skin are well seen the cicatrices due to former operations G. C. 1831 Presented by A. D. Maclagan, F.R.C.S.E., 21st October 1836. 59. Recurrent Fibroid Tumour.—Portion of a left arm after amputation, showing several sarcomatous tumours laid open—in spirit. James D., aged 78, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary on 13th August 1892, complaining of lumps in his forearm, which were sometimes painful. About 18 months before admission, the patient's daughter had drawn his attention to a swelling on his left forearm, almost as big as the present one. He had been quite unaware of its presence up to that time. It was situated on the inner aspect of the forearm on its upper third. The mass grew much larger in a short time, and was removed by Dr Dickson Carnoustie, on 26th July 1891. The wound had just healed, when a second lump made its appearance, and this, he thinks, did not grow so quickly as the first, and did not attain the same size. It was also removed by Dr Dickson in November 1891. Another growth appeared, and was removed m March 1892. These fresh growths appeared in the region of the first, close to the wound of operation. About a month or six weeks after the last operation another lump appeared, this being rather higher up the forearm, according to the patient, than the previous ones. The growtli was not very rapid at first, but during the last month had grown very rapidly. The patient was recommended by Dr Dickson to go to the Edinburgh Infirmary, which he did.