392 Diseases of Done. and rich network running on the face of the tumour. The tumour is split, and forcibly torn asunder, so as to show the tibia within it. The periosteum has separated from the bone and remains attached to the tumour. The surface of the bone is left rough and indented by the pressure of the tumour. The structure of this tumour is the same with those we have seen, only that it retains a great deal more of the cartilaginous firmness." B. C. I. 6. M. 26. CANCER (SECONDARY) OF BONE. 6. 464. Epithelioma invading- the Tibia.—Section of a tibia and adjacent soft parts, injected with carmine and gelatine—in spirit, illustrating the above. About thirty years before the amputation, the patient, a man aged 50, had sustained a compound fracture of the leg below the knee. Dr Gillespie, under whose care he then -was at the Old Royal Infirmary, advised amputation, but the patient declined. After a long illness, he recovered, but ever since had suffered from chronic pains in his tibia, and his ankle remained fixed in the extended position. The scar which had resulted from the injury alternately healed and broke out from time to time until lately, when it began to spread persistently, and became exuberant. Epithelioma of the scar was diagnosed, and the leg was amputated. The glands in his groin were found enlarged, and were excised at the same time. "When seen about a year after the operation, he was free from any return in the stump or groin, and was in excellent health. The preparation illustrates the warty character of gran- ulations which have become epitheliomatous, while the section shows how the epithelioma has been spreading downwards to the bone and eating into it. G. C. 310/. Presented by A. G. Miller, F.R.C.S.E., 1889. 6. 465. Epithelioma and Chronic Suppuration eroding- and destroying the Tibia.—Lower three-fourths of a left tibia and fibula—macerated, illustrating the above. The leg was amputated for " spontaneous" fracture. As a boy, the patient, a man aged 45, had suffered from suppurative osteo-myelitis and periostitis ending in necrosis. The original wound had healed after some dead bone had been removed, but after an interval of several years had broken out again. More bone then came away, and the wound healed,