564 Diseases of Connective Tissue. The patient on admission was a healthy-looking man, very vigorous for his years. There were extensive scars on the upper and outer parts of his left forearm and lower part of the upper arm. Just above the elbow, below a portion of the scar, a large mass of new growth projected on the outside, and reached over the front to the inside. The skin over it was thin, very vascular, and of a purple plum-colour. On the forearm, "beneath the cicatrices, were two separate nodules about the size of a bantam's egg, which did not involve the skin. The hand was useless, and the fingers were stiff. The arm was amputated on August 9th, and the patient made a good recovery. On section the substance of the large mass was like that, •of an inflamed lymphatic gland, grey in colour, soft, juicy, and vascular in texture, and at one or two places it showed a softening like mucoid degeneration. It seemed encapsuled at most places, hut at one spot the muscles were infiltrated. The substance of the smaller nodules was firmer and less vascular, but similar to that of the large mass. Microscopically the tumour is composed of round and spindle cells. G. C. 3447. Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E., 1892. '9. 60. Recurrent Fibroid Tumour.—Papier-mache cast, show- ing the appearance before operation of the arm from which the previous specimen was taken. G. C. 3448. Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E., 1892. 9. 61. Large Recurrent Fibroid Tumour.—Section of a large recurrent fibroid removed for the fifth time from the back without dissemination—in spirit. John Allister, an elderly man, noticed in 1805 a small tumour, the size of a hazel nut, above the left haunch. It was movable, elastic, and of the colour of skin. In three years it had grown to be the size of a hen's egg. At that time he fell and struck it, when it inflamed, became painful, and soon was as large as two fists. It got still larger, and was dissected oat by Mr Newbigging on 29th May 1810, at which time it had