306 Diseases of Bone. portions are to be seen marked by the impressions of numerous .small vessels similar to what is observed on the parietal bone. " Large portions of the superior maxillary bones, including the alveolar process of the front teeth, are in the process of ■exfoliation. « On examining the base of the skull, the condyloid and cuneiform processes of the occipital bone and the posterior ■clinoid processes of the sphenoidal bone may be observed partially diseased" (Edin. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. L). On the interior, besides the points above noted, new bone has been thrown out round the numerous blood-vessels alluded to. ^' ^' Presented by Sir George Ballingall. 6.263. Syphilitic Disease of the Skull, with Destruction Of the Nose.—Skull—macerated, illustrating the above. '' During life the patient exhibited a horrid spectacle. I could see into the throat, so as to observe the motion of the velum palate, while he was speaking. Some time after the disease was stopped in its progress, the cranium became affected. It did not, strictly speakmg, exfoliate, but the whole substance came away. The pnlsation of the brain forcing the dura mater against the edge of the bone, it was destroyed by nlcera- tion and fungus cerebri followed, when the man died. ' There is an aperture just behind the centre of the coronal suture, extending backwards for two and a half inches. It is widest about half an inch from the front, where it measures two inches across, and becomes narrower towards the back The edges are sharp and jagged, and the margin is bevelled from the outside. The bevelled portion on the front and left side is mostly smoothed over, as if the process had ceased there, but on the right side it is irregular, as if still m process. The greater part of the frontal bone shows numerous vascular markings, producing a mosaic-like pattern, the result apparently of horizontally running blood-vessels. At one or two places there are patches of opened-out vascular pores. Below the right frontal eminence is a patch of necrotic bone irregularly circular in outline, and measuring one and a half