283 Tubercular Enlargement. and there is some new bone on the surface. This has evidently been a case of tuberculosis of the knee-joint, which has healed with extensive distortion. It was formerly described as " spina- ventosa." There is a peculiar crack in front of the specimen, for which it is difficult to account. As there is some new bone over and near it, it may have been caused in an attempt to straighten the limb. j\ p, Q qqq Presented by Professor John Thomson. .211. Tubercular Enlargement of the Lower End of the Tibia.—Lower end of a right tibia—macerated, illustrating the above. Several apertures seen in the expanded shell communicated in the recent condition with an abscess in the soft parts. There has been enlargement on the surface, and absorption within. The interior of the bone has an irregularly scooped- out appearance. The disease has probably been tubercular. W. C. G. 27. 212. Tubercular Abscess and Enlargement of the Lower End Of the Tibia.—Section of part of a left foot and lower end of the tibia—macerated, illustrating the above. '' Mrs A., aged 43, a delicate, nervous woman, suffered from suppuratin » cervical glands several years ago ; her family and personal history was other* wise good. Three years ago pain began in the left loin, and extended down gradually to left ankle, and remained there for three months. It subsided completely, but returned in a few months, as result of a blow on the ankle An abscess formed and was opened, and healed after discharging for a few months The abscess opened again, and was relieved by carbolic acid fomentations, but returned one month before admission to the Infirmary The patient was able to walk until within a week of admission, though with difficulty. The large abscess cavity of tibia was opened into, and aseous matter was scraped out. In fourteen days pain spread to ankle, and amputation became necessary." The specimen shows the abscess in the tibia laid open The walls at the bottom are covered by bare and dead (non-