368 Diseases of Bone. end of a humerus and elbow-joint, with tumour and adjacent soft parts attached—injected with carmine and gelatine, and in spirit, illustrating the above. The patient was a man, aged 68. The swelling appeared at the back of the arm one year before the operation, and was taken at first for an enlargement of the bursa over the olecranon. The rapid growth, however,°soon made its nature apparent, and the arm was amputated. The tumour was soft, with small calcareous and osseous deposits scattered throughout it, especially at the margins. It has invaded the bone, and seems to have pushed the muscles and fascia aside rather than infiltrated them. G. C. 2837. Presented by Joseph Bell, F.R.C.S.E. Periosteal-Sarcomata, i.e., Tumours like the preceding, only growing too rapidly for much development of bone. 6.418. Periosteal Sarcoma of Femur.—Posterior half of a left femur, with a periosteal sarcoma growing from its middle two-thirds—in spirit. "John Wright, aged 13, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary under Dr Handyside on 13th June 1843, with an extensive tumour of the left thigh-bone. '< Six years since he had an attack of scarlatina, on recovering from which the left thigh remained weaker than the other, and appeared also to be smaller in size. For this the part had been rubbed frequently with various ointments. He continued to go about, otherwise quite well till about six months ago, when, during the night, he was suddenly seized with violent pain in the thigh. Poultices were next applied to the affected part, and afterwards sinapisms and a few leeches ; but under the treatment the thigh increased rapidly in size. Since then the tumour has gradually increased, and of late he has experienced considerable uneasiness from the frequent pain in it, and the deprivation of sleep thus occasioned. «On examination, the thigh was found to be much enlarged especially at its middle, whence it tapered gradually towards each T \nitv The tumour was hard and inelastic, connected evidently S th^os femori Id it occupied about the three middle fifths of that In t av nl its extremities of nearly the normal size. Its surface was smootand regular, and over it the muscles and other soft parts could be Toved freely. The integument over the disease presented a somewhat Sning appearance, but was not discoloured; and beneath it the* appear d some faint blue lines, indicating distension oi &. P The tumour was the seat of acute, darting pain, which became veins.