Diseases of Joints. 8. Suppurative Osteo-Myelitis of the Femur, involving- Hip-joint.—Left innominate bone and upper end of femur of a young person—macerated, illustrating the above. The angle which the neck of the femur forms with the shaft is very obtuse. At and below the level of the small trochanter the bone is irregular in shape and condensed, while, on the front of the head and neck and great trochanter, the bone is greatly rarefied (carious), and the articular surface of the femur in many places is rough and bare. Below the outside of the great trochanter a sinus runs upwards into the bone. This condition has all the appearance of having begun as an acute osteo-myelitis of the upper end of the shaft. The disease has evidently involved the hip-joint, producing rare- factive ostitis in the head and neck, and has led to new bone formation below the level of the trochanter. G. C. 631. b. Where the pus-forming organisms have reached the joint directly through wounds. .9. Septic Inflammation of the Hip-joint.—Upper end of a left femur, with the soft parts outside the joint dissected off —in spirit, illustrating the above. The patient, a young man, had been treated in the Koyal Infirmary, Edinburgh, for a large abscess in the left inguinal region, above the situation of the inguinal ring. This was opened, and much matter was discharged. He was beginning to improve, when seized with sudden pain in the inside of his thigh and knee. Symptoms of septic absorption, indicated by fever, sweating, and afterwards delirium, came on, and he died exhausted in about a fortnight. ■ This was probably a psoas abscess, which had pointed in the abdominal wall, and after having been opened, had turned septic and communicated with the hip-joint. "The ligamentum teres was absorbed, and the cartilage covering the head of the bone, and also that lining the acetabulum, could scarcely be said to exist." The greater part of the bone is bare of cartilage, and the bone below is rarefied. G. C. 1101. Presented by Sir George Ballingall.