Tubercular Disease of the Spine. 525 cyst, a considerable quantity of which is still seen adhering to the bound- aries of the cavity, particularly to the outside of the dura matral covering of the spinal marrow. This matter had pressed on the spinal marrow so as to produce paralysis of the lower extremities. A very excellent pre- paration, as illustrative of the effects of this disease (1804)." W. C. H. 54. 7. 238. Tubercular Disease, with Destruction of Bodies —Paraplegia.—Eight half of the lower dorsal and upper lumbar portions of the spine—in spirit, illustrating the above. The patient had suffered from spinal disease, with paraplegia, for some years, and died of phthisis in the Hospital for Incurables. At the post-mortem examination a large abscess was found surrounding the bodies of the affected vertebrae. This abscess contained, besides curdy pus, several loose fragments of hard necrosed bone, which had been driven back, by the pressure of the adjacent vertebrae, upon the spinal canal. These fragments, found at the post-mortem examination, are shown in situ, having been embedded in dark paraffin before the section was made, in order that their relative position might be maintained. It may be noted that the curvature, which corresponds to what existed at the time of deatb, is comparatively sb>ht. This is important as showing that a minor degree of curvature may co-exist with involvement of the spinal cord. G. C. 3475. Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.K.C.S.E., 1893. 7. 239. Tuberculosis, with Destruction of Bodies—A trophy of Ribs and Spines, and Paraplegia.—Eight half of a spine representing the lower seven dorsal vertebrae (sixth to twelfth inclusive), with portions of the lower seven ribs attached. Soft parts partially dissected—in spirit, illustrating the above. The patient, a young man aged 20, about two years before ad- mission to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, first noticed a pain in the lower dorsal region of his spine, when he stooped or straightened his back. The pain was dull and aching, and extended along the ribs on the left side, which corresponded to the painful part of the spine. It gradually increased, and in about six months had become constant,