526 Diseases of Joints. whether he was sitting or standing. A month later it had extended along the ribs on the right side. These symptoms gradually increased until December 1888, when he was admitted into the Infirmary. At that time he had no pain or weakness in his legs, and as soon as a Plaster-of-Paris jacket had been applied he returned home. The pain in his spine was not relieved, but that in his ribs disappeared. Soon, however, he felt a loss of sensation in his legs, beginning first in the left thigh, and extending to other parts of the lower limbs. About a month after the jacket had been applied, the pain in the back increased, and he had difficulty in walking. On January 10th, 1889, he returned to Mr Miller's ward, and was then able to walk into the waiting room with the aid of an umbrella. His legs were weak, and the pain in his back worse, and at his own request the jacket was removed, He made an effort to get up, hut found that he had entirely lost the power of his legs, and so had to be carried from the waiting room to the ward. After ten days he was taken to the Medical House. At that time a projection of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal spines was noted, and both lower limbs were completely paralysed. The plantar reflex was present on the left side, but not on the right. Ankle clonus was obtained on both sides, and also patellar reflex, but not exagger- ated. No cremasteric reflex was obtained, but the anterior abdominal and thoracic reflexes were lively. The patient could tell when his bladder was full, but had difficulty in starting micturition. His bowels sometimes moved without his knowledge. The muscles of the paralysed limbs were firm and not wasted. No trophic lesion was visible. There was a con- stant dull pain in his back near the prominence, with occasional sharp pains, followed by drawing up of his legs. The pain was sometimes felt when he moved his trunk. "When he coughed there were occasional sharp pains following the line of the ribs attached to the diseased portion of the spine. Over the eighth dorsal spine even a light pressure caused pain. There was no marked tenderness over the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal spines. The other systems were normal. On May 4th the sensation was perfect in both feet, and the area of insensitive skin less. He could flex his knees occasionally, and had better control over his rectum and bladder than formerly. The spine was trephined on May 31st by Mr Miller. After removing the soft parts, the tenth dorsal spine, which was softened and inflamed, was removed with bone pliers. The spinous process above it was next looked for, but was absent, and the corresponding lamina was atrophied to the thickness of ordinary letter paper, and could easily be broken with the finger nail. The dura mater was opened, and much cerebro- spinal fluid welled out. Excepting that the spinal cord was thinner and smaller than normal, nothing wrong was detected. The wound was then closed. Shortly after the operation, symptoms of spinal meningitis appeared, but by July 4th they were rapidly disappearing. It was noted on August 5th for the first time that at each in- spiration there was a sinking in of the wall of the chest near the affected part of the column. On palpation, the vertebral ends of the tenth