155 Pott's Fracture. vascular, covered with soft downy granulations, and evidently in the progress towards re-union." The bone has given way irregularly, and has been some- what comminuted. Some new periosteal bone is seen on the lower end of the upper fragment. G. C. 1098. Presented by Sir George Ballingall. 3. 315. Severe Form of Pott's Fracture.—Right foot and greater part of the leg, with the skin removed, except round the inner malleolus, where the bone projected after sloughing. The muscles are dissected, and the specimen is mounted in spirit to illustrate the above. A. B., aged 35, while intoxicated, slipped on the ice and fell, on 12th January 1837. He attempted to walk at first, but being unable to do so was afterwards driven home. Next day the fracture was reduced. In twenty-four hours afterwards great swelling came on, "the skin presenting a dark blush and numerous large dark-coloured phylctense." The splints were removed and leeches were applied. Eight hours after- wards the displacement was renewed by an involuntary muscular movement. The redness extended to the thigh, and over the inner malleolus a elough formed 3 x 2\ inches. On the 21st January an attack of delirium tremens came on and lasted for three days, during which the leg was much tossed about. Eventually the ankle-joint was opened into, and an abscess formed on the outer side. On the 1st of February the limb was amputated below the knee and the patient did well. There is a fracture of the fibula about two inches above the malleolus, also rupture of the internal lateral ligament, and dislocation of the whole foot outwards. A piece of cane indicates how the ankle-joint was opened into. G. C. 1975. Presented by Sir George Ballingall, 1837. 3.316. Pott's Fracture, with Stiffness of the Ankle.— Lower half of a right tibia and fibula—macerated, showing the above. "The joint upon dissection exhibited marks of former injury and disease, being stiff, and the ligaments deprived of their natural structure. The muscles on the back of the leg were reduced almost to common cellular texture." The outer malleolus has been fractured obliquely, and the