65 Fractures of the Spine. fracture for which leeches and setons were applied, without much benefit. Afterwards he had a sharp attack of pleurisy, followed by severe hydro- thorax and general oedema, from which he died. From first to last there was no evidence of affection of either motion or sensation. (See Medico- Chirwrgical Transactions, London, vol. xx. p. 78.) The remarkable escape of the spinal cord, is explained by the fact that the posterior part of the arch of the atlas remained in position while the rest of the bone was dislocated forwards, carrying with it the odontoid process, which was at the same time snapped off. This accident seems to be unique. G. C. 2782. 3. 66. Fracture of the Fourth Cervical Vertebra.—Axis and. five succeeding cervical vertebras, with the spinal canal laid open; muscles dissected off—in spirit. The right vertebral artery was torn, and severe bleeding took place into the spinal canal and compressed the cord. The nerves and membranes were found perfectly natural and undisturbed. There is an oblique fracture through the upper part of the body of the fourth cervical vertebra, which extends into the left transverse process. The articular processes between the third and fourth vertebrae have been dislocated on the left side. G. C. 909. Presented by William Newbigging, F.K.C.S.E., 1827. 3. 67. Dislocation between the fourth and fifth Cervical Vertebrae.—Cervical and first dorsal vertebras, with the muscles dissected off—in spirit. A fishwife, apparently in good health, was being pulled out of bed, in a frolic, by companions. It is uncertain whether the accident occurred when the head alone rested on the edge of the bed, or when it reached the floor. The limbs and trunk were paralysed. Breathing was carried on by the diaphragm for a day or two, until death took place. There is no appearance of fracture, and the dura mater appears to be drawn out between the separated vertebras. G. G. 3456. Presented by Professor John Strutiiers, 1893. E