Inflammation from Pus-forming Organisms. 233 laid open, and a large quantity of pus, which had burrowed all round the bone, was evacuated. A counter opening behind was made for drainage. Three days afterwards violent haemorrhage occurred from the soft tissues behind the bone, and was checked by plugging. As the boy's pulse and temperature continued high, the leg was amputated above the knee, one week after his admission. The knee-joint was found to be suppurating. The specimen shows almost complete separation of the periosteum, except at the lower and slightly at the upper ends of the tibia. It also illustrates the very free incision required for such cases. The injection failed owing to the numerous points at which escape occurred. G. C. 2788. Presented by Professor T. Annandale, F.R.C.S.E. 79. Acute Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Tibia— Amputation.—Section of the injected right tibia of a girl—in spirit, showing the above. About Christmas 1889, Agnes R., aged 12 years, blistered a part of her heel, which soon became inflamed and irritable. This was poulticed and then improved. About the 8th of January 1890, her ankle "gave way ' while she was skating, and became afterwards swollen and painful. The swelling, which was at [first near the ankle, afterwards extended to the knee. Shortly afterwards an abscess was opened over the inner malleolus, and speedily others formed, and were opened higher up the leg. Eventually the ankle-joint communicated with one of the abscesses, and the tissues of the leg generally became inflamed. She was admitted to Ward 17, Royal Infirmary, on January 30th, 1890, and shortly afterwards the leg was amputated, just above the knee. A few days later an abscess formed on each shoulder, and that on the left was followed by considerable necrosis of the upper end of the humerus. Similar abscesses formed over each olecranon process. She was greatly emaciated, and after remaining in Hospital for many weeks, was sent to the Incurable Hospital, where she died some weeks afterwards. The specimen shows purulent infiltration through nearly the whole of the medullary cavity of the tibia. It also shows new periosteal bone forming on the surface of the shaft, and complete detachment of the lower epiphysis. G. C. 3260. Presented by A. G. Miller, F.R.C.S.E., 1891. 80. Acute Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Tibia—