Diseases of Joints. 426 fluid. On making a small incision into the abscess, much gas, smelling of sulphuretted hydrogen, came away, with a thin, foetid, greenish-coloured pus. Two days after admission two incisions were made into the abscess in the shoulder. The joint could be felt exposed, by a large ulcerated opening through the capsular ligament. A very large abscess was opened soon after in the lower part of the arm, and greenish matter, thin and foetid, was discharged. The opening into the upper part of the joint has heen artificially enlarged. The cartilage at the margin of the arti- cular surface has disappeared, leaving the hone exposed helow. An early stage of the same process is seen at the middle of the head of the humerus. G. C. 1199. Presented by Adam Hunter, F.R.C.S.E., 1828. 7. 5. Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Head of the Humerus, involving- the Shoulder-joint.—Upper end of the left humerus of a child—in spirit, illustrating the above. '1 The patient was a fine little boy of two years. While amusing itself at its mother's foot about two months previously, it stumbled, and was falling forward, when the mother caught hold of the left arm, by which indeed she prevented the fall, but unfortunately injured the shoulder-joint severely. The joint soon after swelled and became inflamed, and an abscess forming, considerable discharge took place. The donor of the preparation, when first consulted, probed the sore, and found the bone carious, but made a free incision in the hopes that nature would effect a cure. This did not take place, and the child's health appearing to be rapidly suffering, the removal of the bone was determined on. The case seemed doing well for a few days, but a violent attack of erysipelas supervened, from which he never recovered, but died in about a fortnight after the removal of the carious bone. '' The internal structure of the bone was found nearly destroyed. A few small pieces were found floating in the cavity. The cartilages of the joint were found during the operation to have been partially anchylosed. An exceedingly small quantity of blood was lost by the patient during the operation." The specimen shows a large cavity in the head of the hone, containing a loose, necrosed fragment. G. C. 1199. Presented by Adam Hunter, F.R.C.S.E., 1828. 7. 6. Suppurative Osteo-myelitis of the Femur, involving*