359 Fibro-Osscous Tumour. admission. About that time one lump appeared in the popliteal space, and another over the inner tuberosity of the tibia. These two have grown rapidly, but painlessly, the one over the femur the more slowly. On admission the patient had no pain in the swellings, and could walk with the aid of a stick. She had some numbness and pain in the toes an foot, and the leg was rather cold. The right knee measured twenty- three inches in circumference at the popliteal space. There were thre special swellings—the largest and uppermost, surrounding the lower third of the femur, seemed to grow from the epiphyseal line. The middle one filled up the popliteal space, and the lowest was on the anterior and inner aspect of the leg. These swellings were smooth and rounded ; the skin was drawn tightly round them, but not involved. After removal by amputation, on 15th October, the tumour was sawn up, and found to be capsulated, smooth, and lobulated. The lower tumour had a watered silk appear- ance, like the section of a fibrous tumour. Two separate nodules of tumour substance were found in the gastrocnemius, and both contained bone. The main mass was found fused with the femur, aud was fibrous externally and osseous inter- nally. The popliteal portion was cartilaginous, and showed a transition between fibrous tissue and cartilage. The tumour was considered an « osteo-chondro-fibroma," as it was composed chiefly of bone, fibrous tissue, and a little cartilage. The specimen on one side has been stained with logwood, which shows the difference between the osseous and the fibrous parts. The cancellated tissue at the lower end of the femur is replaced by condensed bone, like that in the substance of the femur, but the outline of the shaft is still at places perceptible. Some of the new bone forming the tumour is extremely hard and dense. q q 337-3 Presented by Professor John Cuiene. 394. Fibro-Osseous Tumour of Lower End of Femur.- Portion of same tumour—macerated, to show its bony structure. The section shows the bone to be somewhat porous after the removal of the fibrous tissue. In many places it is composed of plates lying at varying distances from one another, but seldom showing the usual characteristics of cancellated tissue.