Tumours of Facial Bones. 413 suddenly the haemorrhage which had heen so long suppressed burst forth with great violence. It was immediately stemmed by wedging a sponge into the opening of the cheek. However, at midnight it again burst forth, and before any assistance could be rendered he was found extended, pale, and almost lifeless ; the whole face enormously swollen ; the opening in the cheek and the projecting tumour black, like gangrene, and exhaling an intolerable fcetor. For the two following days he lay in a state of stupor, and then expired. "Dissection.—The walls of the antrum were completely carious. The tumour was seen arising in a fiat membranous expansion from the upper spongy bones, becoming bulky and fleshy in the nostril, where it adhered to its floor, and occupied the top of the" {sic) " equally bulky and bag-like, where it extended across the antrum to the alveolar aperture, where the tooth had been drawn, and to the foramen which it had made near the infra-orbitary hole." The tumour has apparently had its origin from the back of the ethmoid and the tissues in the neighbourhood of the spheno- maxillary fissure. From this point it has grown downwards into the naso-pharynx, and forwards through the antrum on to the cheek. Its surface is shreddy and irregular towards the nose, but more uniform towards the cheek. The tumour substance is for the most part soft and diffluent. The tumour has caused absorption by its mechanical presence, but it does not seem to have infiltrated the surrounding parts. G. C. 968. 6. 514. Malignant Disease attacking- Anterior Fossa.— Portion of frontal ethmoid and sphenoid bones—in spirit, showing complete absorption of the cribriform palate, by the growth of a tumour from below. B. C. I. 6. M. 40. 6. 515. Malignant Disease of the Superior Maxilla and Nose.—Plaster cast of the right side of the face of a woman, illustrating the above. There is a large swelling between the eye and the mouth, involving the side of the nose. Described originally as a " polypus of the nose, projecting to the face." F. P. C. 2831.