Osteo-Sarcomata. 365 was performed by Dr John Duncan, nearly a year after the symptoms first began. The patient made an excellent recovery, and had returned to business, when the disease appeared in the brain, and, after a few weeks' illness, carried him off. The section shows the tumour to be growing round the outside of the bone, which is, however, also partly affected in the interior. The substance of the tumour is vascular, soft, and friable, with a few bony spicules. Under the microscope it is a large spindle-celled sarcoma. G. C. 3463. Presented by Alexis Thomson, F.B.C.S.E. 6.410. Osteo - Sarcoma of the Lower End of Femur.— Anterior half of the lower end of a right femur—macerated, illustrating the above. A somewhat lobulated tumour has grown from the inner side at and above the knee-joint, and apparently contains bony spicules. In the interior the tumour substance has invaded the cancellous tissue. n. P 917s 6. 411. Osteo-Sarcoma of Leg and Foot.—Section of the lower part of a right leg and foot—in spirit, illustrating the above. "1828.—Mr B., aged 57, healthy and active, formerly of habits unmarked by any peculiarity, about eight years ago, while travelling by night on the outside of a stage-coach, had his legs and feet extremely benumbed with cold, and in a few days they were affected with severe pain 1 be left leg soon grew permanently well; the right leg never did. The pain was seated m the shin-bone, varying according to the season and state of the weather. About two years since, the anterior angle of the tibia had become serrated (sic); in a few months afterwards a swelling of the perios- teum appeared on the middle of the bone. This was reduced by a blister and issue. In February 1827 the lower two-thirds of the bone were become enlarged. Numerous processes from the anterior and posterior angles distended the neighbouring muscles ; much thickening of the soft parts round the lower end of the bone, and oedema of the foot. At the end of three months, during which the treatment consisted of repeated applications of leeches and blisters, mercurial alteratives, sarsaparilla and regulated diet, there was a considerable diminution of the pain and of the swelling of the soft parts, but little or no reduction of the size of the