437 Tubercular Synovitis of Knee-joint. may burst at once into the joint, and rapidly disseminate the disease, or burrow away from the joint, burst externally at a variable distance from it, and only after some time, if at all, communicate with its interior. B. C. n. M. 16. 7. 29. Tubercular Synovitis of Knee-Joint, with Destruc- tion of the Articular Surfaces.—Cast in gelatine and glycerine of the front of a left knee which was in the above condition. The patient, Mary W., aged 25, had complained first of her knee, six years before. She was then a field worker. Under rest and blistering the symptoms subsided, but reappeared when work was renewed. This occurred several times, the longest interval of health being for a year in 1884, and again in 1886. In December 1887 pain and swelling became much worse. A Thomas splint then tried was found of no use, and in April 1888 she came to Dr John Duncan's wards with the knee in the condition indicated by the cast. A puffy swelling was present also at the outer part of the ankle-joint. This, together with the patient's wish, determined Dr Duncan to amputate rather than to excise. The cast shows the uniform globular swelling of the joint characteristic of tubercular synovitis. Gr. C. 2789. Presented by Chakles W. Cathcaet, F.R.C.S.E. 7.30. Tubercular Synovitis of the Knee-Joint, with Destruction of the Articular Surfaces.—Cast in gelatine and glycerine of the same knee, laid open after amputation. The patella is thrown down over the tibia. There had been recent suppuration within the joint. The only portions of articular cartilage remaining are seen on the outer condyle and the outer half of the trochlea of the femur. The rest of the articular cartilage is replaced partly by recent granulations, indicated by the strong colour, partly by fully formed fibrous tissue, which covers the articular surface of the patella and the upper part of the trochlear surface of the femur. A plug of fat occupies the inter-condyloid notch j over the surface of the