Rickets. 219 6. 47. Distortion of the Femur from Rickets. Right femur —macerated, showing the ahove. This is probably from the same patient as the last specimen. There is a decided bend of the shaft directed outwards, and laterally flattened upon the curve. The outer condyle is the more prominent downwards, and may have been associated with genu varum. Several irregular patches of new peri- osteal bone are seen about the middle and near the upper end. Not unlikely this is one of these cases where there has been a genu varum on the one side and a genu vulgum on the other. The condition of this bone is light and soft, like the previous one- G. C. 360. 6. 48. Distortion of the Femur and Tibia from Rickets.— Oil painting of a femur and tibia illustrating the above. The painting is from the bones of "Canny Elshie, the veritable Black Dwarf of Sir Walter Scott, obtained on loan from the Parish of Temple, where he was buried, and copied exactly in oils by P D H in the year 1827 or 1828." (Note in Dr P. H. Handyside's handwritten the back of the Painting.) ° The following particulars as to the "Black Dwarf" are taken from Dr Craig's letter to Dr John Brown, which forms part of the article "The Black Dwarf's Bones," in the Hora) Subsecivce (1882 ; second series, p. 344). He was four feet high - As near as I can learn, his forehead was very narrow and low, sloping upwards and backward, something of the hatchet shape ; h1S eyes deep-set, small, and piercing ; his nose straight, thin as the end of a cut of cheese, sharp at the point, nearly touching his fear- fully projecting chin ; and his mouth formed nearly a straight line • his shoulders rather high, but his body otherwise the size of ordinary men ■ bis arms were remarkably strong. With very little aid ho built a high garden wa I Wh,ch still stands, many of the stones of huge size ; these the shepherds laid to h,s directions. His legs beat all power of description ; they were bent m every direction, so that Mungo Park, then a surgeon at Peebles who was called to operate on him for strangulated hernia, said he could compare them to nothing but a pair of cork-screws; but the principal urn they took was from the knee outwards, so that he rested on his inner ankles, and the lower part of his tibias; . . . the thrawn twisted limbs