358 Diseases of Bone. 6.391. Ivory Exostosis of Nasal Cavity.—Section of an irregular mass of exceedingly dense bone, from the right nasal cavity of a man aged about 40. For many years the patient had suffered from inconvenience and discharge from his right nostril. Some polypi had been removed, and about a year before this mass was taken away it had been recognised as. probably a rinolith. After one or two unsuccessful attempts to remove it while the patient was under chloroform, this mass was finally extracted, but not until the anterior nares had been freely exposed, and their margms enlarged with gouge forceps. During this operation an attempt was- made to divide this mass, and the marks of the saw are shown m the specimen. Had the saw-cut been completed, the removal would have been easier. , The patient died of septic meningitis about a week after tile- operation, and at the post-mortem examination it was found that the mass- had pressed through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and had entered the cranial cavity. On this account the operation had the more easily set up the fatal meningitis. The section shows the dense ivory-like character of the growth. On microscopic examination it was found to be com- posed of very dense bone. It had no doubt originally grown from the ethmoid, but it must have afterwards necrosed, for it was quite loose within its cavity at the time of the operation. G- C. 3273. Presented by A. G. Miller, F.R.C.S.E. 6. 392. Ivory Exostosis of Nasal Cavity .-Plaster cast of the previous specimen before it was sawn up. G. C. 3274. 6. 393. Very large Fibro-Osseous Tumour of the Lower End Of Femur.-Section of the lower half of a femur with the above tumour growing from it—in spirit. The patient, a woman, aged 33, was admitted to Professor Queues- ^ before admission, she thinks she sustained asprai, of the knee, and ever since then the knee has been swollen grttaB gradually larger, but never painful. The patient has never and only had difficulty in walking for the first time two months befoie