Fractures of the Spine. 75 3. 84. Forward Dislocation and Fracture of the Body of the eleventh, and Fracture of that of the twelfth Dorsal VertebraB.—Eleventh and twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae-—cleaned, dried, and varnished, to show the above condition. The patient, John Cameron, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, on 12th October 1807, with loss of motion and sensation below the thorax, as the result of an injury. About a week before death it was noted that his water continued to be mixed with purulent matter, and also that the catheter was introduced with difficulty, apparently from its point getting into a false passage. There was a very extensive slough over the os sacrum, as well as over the injured part of the spine, the latter being on the increase. At this time the patient was incoherent, and took little food. On the morning of 2nd November he was attacked with spontaneous vomiting of a greenish-coloured matter, and on the following day his pulse could hardly be felt at the wrist, while the vomiting had been continuous. On 4th November—i.e., twenty-three days after the accident—he died. The spinal canal must have been completely obliterated and the lower end of the cord crushed. G. C. 173 b. Presented by Wm, Brown, F.R.C.S.E., 1807. 3.85. Dislocation forwards of the eleventh, with Fracture of the Body of the twelfth Vertebra.— Sections of the last three dorsal and first lumbar vertebras, with the muscles cleaned off, showing compression of the cord by displacement of the vertebras—in spirit. A. M., set. 31, a fireman, on 26th February 1891 fell through a hatchway into the forepeak, a distance of ten feet, and must have landed across an iron wheel, but cannot say how he struck it, as he was rendered unconscious. He was pulled up by the sailors, by means of a rope under his arm-pits, carried to his berth, and next day taken to Hamburg Hospital. There he lay for two months till he was brought to Leith, and admitted to the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, on 29th April 1891. On admission he was very white, weak, and prostrate. He had no feeling below the iliac crests, and neither movement nor sensation in the lower limbs. There was tactile sensation in the lumbar region, but it was delayed. Some hyperesthesia existed above the twelfth rib. There was a depression below the twelfth dorsal spine. There were bedsores on the sacrum, the calves, and at the malleoli of both legs. Sphincters were relaxed, and fteces and the urine came away involuntarily. The urine