Sarcomatous Cartilaginous Tumours. 343 enlargements. The first, second, and fifth metacarpal bones have had small growths attached to them. G. C. 2269. 6.365. Chondro-sareoma of the Thumb.—Section of a thumb—in spirit—showing a chondro-sarcomatous tumour growing from the first phalanx. The man, aged 51, was admitted to the Koyal Infirmary, Edin- burgh, in December 1891. His family history was good, and he had previously been quite healthy and temperate. "Seven years ago," while holding a horse with a rope, the rope got twisted round his thumb and hurt it. The thumb was sore for several days after this, but did not swell. This was in spring ; during the 'summer it felt stiff, and in the following winter the first phalanx swelled up from what was considered to be rheumatism. During the following winter it again became at times sore and swollen. The swelling was red, and the veins over it were distended. It came and went more frequently, and seemed to be worse on exposure to cold. It soon continued to be painful even when there was no swelling. This intermittent swelling continued for four years, when he noticed a small lump attached to the outer side of the first phalanx. The lump was bluish and soft; it was very painful, and he thought it was going to form matter, 'it, however, continued to grow without coming to a head. Eighteen months ago it was opened, and only blood came out, and last August it was opened again, with the same result. The thumb was amputated and the patient shortly afterwards went home. After section the tumour was found to have originated in the front of the first phalanx, and to have expanded the bone for a short distance laterally, but there was no shell of the bone over the main piece of the tumour. The joints at each end of the phalanx were not affected. The tumour mass was of firm consistence, except towards the margins, where it was soft and reddish, hemorrhages having taken place into the tissue at these parts. The main mass of the tumour presented a gelatinous appearance, with a network of dense white material, apparently cartilage of firmer consistence than the rest, and with calcareous nodules interspersed. Microscopic examination showed it to be chondro-sareoma (round-celled) with some myxomatous degeneration. G. C. 3358. Presented hj John Duncan, F.R.C.S.E., December 1891.