397 Tumours of the Lower Jaw. 2. Fibrous and Osseous, from the Periosteum and Bone—ranging from the slowly-growing simple forms whose tissues are well developed to the rapidly-growing malignant forms whose tissues are more or less embryonic. 6. 478. Exostosis of the Lower Jaw.—Portions of an osseous tumour, covered with warty growth, removed from the gum of a lower jaw—in spirit. The bone is well formed, and the tumour has evidently been of slow growth. F. P. C. 3005. 6. 479. Enormous Fibro-osseous Tumour of the Lower jaw.—Plaster cast of a head and neck, showing an enormous tumour of the lower jaw, successfully removed by Professor Syme. The lines of the incisions used at the operation were marked in when the cast was presented. The following note is by Professor Syme:—"Between eight and nine years ago, Eobert Penman, from Coldstream, then sixteen years old, noticed a hard swelling of the gum on the outer side of the grinding teeth of the lower jaw. The swelling was not painful, but gradually increased. When it attained the size of an egg he applied to a surgeon of the neigh- bourhood, who extracted three of the adjoining teeth. It then grew more rapidly, and having at length become as large as an orange, induced him to repair to the Royal Infirmary of this city, where it was removed, i.e., cut off from the bone. The wound did not heal, and the actual cautery- was repeatedly applied in vain to make it do so. After remaining eight months in the Infirmary, he returned home; but finding the tumour rapidly and regularly increasing, he two years afterwards came again to Edinburgh, and consulted a distinguished operating surgeon (now in London), who declined to make any attempt towards his relief. He went home with the fearful prospect of a certain lingering and painful dissolu- tion ; and it was after three years and a half spent in this miserable stale tbat Dr Sibbald of this city happened to see him. Though the tumour was then nearly three times larger than it was when the patient last quitted Edinburgh, Dr Sibbald felt persuaded that it was still within the reach of surgery, and therefore encouraged the young man to come once more to town, which he accordingly did.