210 Diseases of Bone. spongy in character, and seems to occupy chiefly the middle and outer tahles. Upper Limbs.—The clavicles are thin, and their curves are somewhat exaggerated. Scapulaa.-The left scapula is small and thin, but otherwise normal in shape. The right is bent, so as to be concave forwards, but is otherwise unchanged. Own* to spinal curvature, it is placed higher than the left one. Humeri.—The humeri are each 8£ inches in length, and have an outward bend at the deltoid attachment, where also a special rid-e is developed. The outer lip of the bicepital groove is very prominent. The heads of the bones are flattened from above downwards. The condyles at the elbow are unusually prominent. Forearms—The bones of the forearms are thm and somewhat irregular in shape, with prominent ridges and enlarge- ment of the lower ends of radii. The bones of the hands show no particular change. Spinal Column.-The spinal column presents an exaggerated degree of lateral curvature, convex to the right in the dorsal region, and to the left in the lumbar, with the usual rotation of the bodies of the vertebra* towards the convexity. Thorax—The thorax presents the usua characters following upon lateral curvature, viz. on the right or convex side the angles of the ribs are exaggerated behind, and the ribs themselves seem unusually broad, while the curve is somewhat flattened in front; on the left or concave side the ribs are compressed together and narrowed at the concavity, their angles being flattened at the back and their curvature increased in front. Sternum.-The body of the sternum is oblique to the manubrium sterni. Pelvis-The pelvis is altered partly by rickets and partly by lateral curvature. The bones are thin and light. The al» of the ilium are iU developed and bent forward, somewhat like the osteo-malacian pelvis. The brim 0f the pelvis is contracted chiefly on the left side, where the acetabulum has been crushed up towards the sacrum. Lower LiMBS-Femora—The femora are very short, measuring from the top of the great trochanters to their lower end only about 9 inches. They are curved forwards and