448 Diseases of Joints. strength was much reduced, and the operation was resorted to as the only means of saving his life. He, however, died some days after the removal of the limb, in which no healing process ever took place. . . . The joint after removal showed incurable disease, viz., deep-seated abscesses filled with scrofulous-looking matter occupying the bone and extending a considerable way down the leg. The articular cartilages covering the condyles of the femur, the patella, and surface of the tibia were almost entirely destroyed. Finally, the bones were deeply affected with caries, the tibia to a great extent." Besides a general rarefaction of the articular surfaces, the specimen shows deep erosions similar to those in former specimens, on the outer articular surface of the tibia, and on the outer condyle of the femur. (In the recent state such erosions are occupied by tubercular caseous granulations with or without fragments of necrotic bone.) Towards the back of the outer condyle of the femur there is a small patch of smooth bone surrounded by a trench in the bone texture, and beyond that by the general surface of rarefied cancellous bone. This is a necrosed fragment in process of separation, like that seen in 7. 34. It is to be noted that, as in several previous specimens, there is very little new periosteal formation round the articular surfaces. The whole of the bones are lightened. G-. C. 864. Presented by Sir George Ballingall, 30th October 1836. 7. 57. Necrosis of Articular Surfaces from Tubercular Synovitis (?).—Bones forming the right knee-joint of an adult in spirit, showing extensive changes in the bone. There is a large loose fragment on the inner condyle of the femur, and on the outer condyle there is a smooth patch, partially entrenched round. On the tibia there is a deep hollow on the inner articular surface, which formerly contained a necrosis, while the greater part of the outer articular surface is smooth and entrenched round like the patch on the femur. A portion of the trochlear surface of the femur is found to be still covered with cartilage. The remainder of the articular