Fractures of the Radius and Viva. 95 backwards. In consequence the radius was broken. The fracture was at first enclosed in splints, without being reduced, and the patient was sent by the surgeon of the works to a surgeon in Edinburgh. The latter, on the supposition that the fracture had been set, left it in the splints, and lastly, the patient, by some mistake, did not return for six weeks to have the splints removed. In consequence the hand became practically useless. Refracture was found impossible, and massage did no good. It will be observed that there is little or no lateral displacement. This confirms the view that the usual presence of lateral displacement is due to the direction of the breaking strain- G. C. 3100. Presented by Charles "W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E. 3. 141. United Fracture of the Ulna.—Lower part of a right ulna, macerated, showing a fracture united with some displace- ment and considerable callous. From the diminution of the articular surface the range of pronation and supination must have been greatly diminished. B. C. I. 1. M. 54. 3. 142. United "Smith's" Fracture.—Eight radius and ulna, carpus, and part of metacarpus—macerated, showing the above.' There has been a fracture through the lower end of the radius, just above the articular surface, with a displacement similar to that seen in Colles' fracture, only forwards instead of backwards. The styloid process of the radius is at a higher level than that of the ulna. The articular surface of the radius looks now very obliquely forwards. The normal hollow, just above the articular surface in front, is increased, while there is a marked projection at a corresponding place at the back. There are deep grooves on the back of the radius for the tendons of the extensor secundi internodil pollicis and the extensor indicis. This fracture is produced by a forcible bending of the hand forwards, i.e. in a direction the reverse of that in which Colles' fracture is produced. q. q 355j Presented by Charles W. Cathcart, F.R.C.S.E., 1893.