Osseotis Tumours. 353 6. 377. Distortion of Bones by Multiple Exostosis.—Femur, tibia, and fibula of a right leg; with part of femur, tibia, and fibula of the opposite side—macerated, illustrating the above. The articular ends of the shafts are greatly distorted by exostoses, and the bones of the legs are fused. On the right side the femur has large irregular exostoses projecting all round the neck, especially behind and below, where they have obliterated the small trochanter. The great trochanter is not much changed, but below it a large irregular mass of bone projects outwards, and while gradually tailing off into thelineaaspera below, runs into the mass at the lesser trochanter in front. These masses of bone are composed of cancellated tissue, with more or less enlarged spaces. The articular surface of the head is rough and nodular below the impression for the ligamentum teres, and the hip-joint has ap- parently been anchylosed. The lower end shows numerous projecting spines and ridges, which are largest on the outside They do not follow the direction of any muscular fibres, and the tip in most cases is exposed, probably from having been covered with cartilage in the recent state. The tibia show, at he inner and posterior parts of the head numerous knobby and spinous projections similar to those on the lower end of the femur A bridge of bone unites the tibia with the fibula about an inch below the level of the tubercle. The lower end of the tibia shows several projecting spines and knobs, and is fused with the lower end of the fibula. The shaft of the tibia show, scarcely any change. There is no ossification in the interosseous membrane, except one small spine on the tibia. The fibula is wanting at its upper end, where it should have articulated with the tibia, but below that place it is fused with it. Except at one or two spots at either extremity, where there are spinous projections, the shaft of the fibula is normal. _ On the left side the lower end of the femur has irregular spinous projections similar to those on the right side The tibia and fibula are affected similarly, but more extensively than those of the right side. The upper end of the tibia is