222 Diseases of Bone. covered with, their periosteum, which was not easily separated, and in endeavouring to separate it the knife went into the bone. She had lain in bed for the last two or three years, and therefore the spine, the thorax, and the pelvis are the parts most distorted. The arms and legs are those of a tall woman. From the occiput to the edge of the ilium is less than ten inches. The femur measures sixteen inches, yet on each side it is a little shortened by the neck being at right angles with the rest of the bone, so as to make the lesser trochanter almost touch the ilium. The lower vertebrae of the neck and upper vertebras of the back protrude backwards almost at right angles, and the lower vertebras of the back and loins make a great protrusion forwards. There is a remarkable indentation in the middle of the ribs on the right side, and those on the outer side are very much compressed and irregular. This was evidently caused by the muscles of respiration on the softened ribs. « Measurement of the Pelvis.— That which at first appears as the projection of the sacrum is the bodies of the three lower lumbar vertebrae fallen forward so as to occupy the cavity of the pelvis The sacrum has receded. From the promontory of the sacrum to that part of the brim of the pelvis opposite to the left acetabulum is something less than a quarter of an inch. From the right side of the promontory of the sacrum to the linea innominata is half an inch. The foreBnger can here with difficulty be introduced between the bones; from the sacrum to the symphysis of the os pubis is two and a fifth inches. There is one part, and only one part of the brim, which admits a ball of an inch in diameter to rest in it. The ball will nowhere pass through. Where it lies it rests against these points-the fourth vertebrae of the loins, and the bodies of the two ossa pubes The sacrum has suffered severely by her continually resting upon it. It is so bent that the base and angle of the bone approach within half an inch of each other The outlet of the pelvis would also be considered remarkably _ distorted ™ not the attention fixed upon the uni^to^oHhe brim."