364 OF BUBO. This increases like every other inflammation that has a tendency to sup- puration ; and, if not prevented, goes on to suppuration and ulceration, the matter coming fast to the skin. But we find cases, where they are slow in their progress, which I suspect either arises from the inflammatory process being kept back by mercury or other means, or being retarded by a scrofulous tendency, such a disposition in the parts not so readily admitting the true vene- real action. At first the inflammation is confined to the gland, which is moveable in the cellular membrane; but as it increases in size, or as the inflam- mation, and more especially the suppuration, advances, which in all eases produce rather a common than a specific effect, the specific distance is exceeded-; the surrounding cellular membrane becomes more inflamed, and the tumor is more diffused. Some buboes become erysipelatous, by which means they are rendered more diffused and cedematous, and do not readily suppurate, a circumstance often attending the erysipelatous inflammation. To ascertain what a disease is, is the first step in the cure; and when two or more causes produce similar effects, great attention is necessary to distinguish one effect from another, so as to come at the true cause of each. The glands of the groin, from their situation, are liable to suspicion, for besides being subject to the common diseases, they become exposed to others, by allowing whatever is absorbed to pass through them ; and as the route of the venereal poison to the constitution is principally through them, and being oftener ill from this cause than any other, they often are suspected of this disease without foundation. To distinguish with certainty the true venereal bubo from swellings of those glands arising from other causes, may be very difficult. We must, however, examine all circumstances, to ascertain in what the bubo differs from the common diseases of those glands, whether in the groin or elsewhere, in which examination the apparent causes are not to be neglected. I have already given the character of the venereal bubo in general terms ; but I shall now be more particular, as the two are to be contrasted. The true venereal bubo, in consequence of a chancre, is most com- monly confined to one gland. It keeps nearly its specific distance till chancre, he becomes apprehensive of a bubo; and as there are in the gonorrhcea, and sometimes in the chancre, sympathetic sensations in or near the groin, they are sus- pected by the patient to be beginning buboes, and the hand is immediately applied to the part; and if he feels one of the glands, although not in the least increased, the sus- picions arc confirmed, front a belief that he bus no such parts naturally.