DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 473 cury was used chiefly by friction, in order to affect the constitution; it was also applied to the sores, in order to affect them locally. The cure of the chancres went on gradually and without interruption; and in about five weeks they were perfectly healed. He almost immediately had connexion with a woman, and long before we could suppose the mercury had all got out of his constitution. In a very few days after the first connection, the prepuce began to be chopped all round on the edge of its reflection. He continued his connection, and upon its grow- ing worse he applied to me, and I found the chops very deep, and the prepuce there so tight and sore that he could not bring it back upon the penis. The question now was, whether this was venereal or not ? The sores themselves did not appear to be so ; but more was to be taken into the account than simply appearances. It was first to be considered whether it might possibly be a return of his former complaint. This could not be the case, because the sores were not in the same parts. It was next to be questioned, was it possible for this part of the prepuce to have been contaminated at the same time with the former, and the poison not to have come into action till now, having been prevented by the course of mercury, which had not cured the disposition ? This could not be well answered, although not probable, because the poison appeared to come too soon into action after the leaving off of the medicine ; for I did suppose there was still a great deal of mercury in the constitution. Was it then possible for him to have caught it from the woman ? This, I supposed, could not have been the cause of these chops, whatever effect this connexion might have to render them venereal hereafter; for they ap- peared too soon after it, especially as he had mercury in his constitution at the time, and as the parts had been accustomed to the application of venereal matter but a very little time before. Although, from all cir- cumstances taken together, I was convinced the case was not venereal, yet an apprehension arose in his mind concerning the possibility of hav- ing given it to the lady, as he had connection after the first appearance of the sores. I was equally convinced of the impossibility of the one as of the other, therefore desired him to rest easy on that head. He went immediately into the country, and nothing being done for those chops, they got perfectly well. In less than a fortnight after this connection, the lady became a little indisposed with a slight fever, and a swelling came in one of her groins. I watched the progress of this swelling, which was slow, and I did not believe it to be venereal. It at last formed matter and broke, and a poultice was applied to it. Instead of ulcer- ating or spreading, it rather had a healing disposition, and in about six weeks it was perfectly well. While it was healing, scurfy eruptions came out on the skin, some on the face and thighs, but more especially