Or CHANCRE. 345 of tumefaction, which keeps up the elongation and tightness which it acquired from the disease, so that it cannot be brought back upon the penis to expose the glans. For this perhaps there is, in many cases, no cure ; however, it is ne- cessary to try every possible means. The steam of warm water, fomen- tations with hemlock, and also fumigations with cinnabar, are often of singular service in this case. But if the parts still retain their size and form, it may be very proper to remove part of the overgrown prepuce; how much, must be left to the discretion of the surgeon. I should suppose that all that part which projects beyond the glans penis may be cut away. The best way of removing it is by the knife; but great care should be taken to distinguish first the projecting prepuce from the glans. When this is perfectly ascertained, the penis being held horizontally, an incision may be made on the upper surface, and followed down with caution ; because if the incision should be too near the glans there may be danger of cutting it. The parts may be allowed to heal with any common dressings, as it is to be considered as a fresh wound; liowerer it will not heal so readily as a fresh wound made in an entirely sound part, because the operation consists in taking away only a superfluous part of a diseased whole ; and what is left is diseased, but not so as to produce any future mischief. Some care may be necessary in the healing of the parts, for it is very possible that the cicatrix may contract, and still form a phimosis. This will be best prevented by the patient himself if he brings the prepuce often back upon the penis; but it should not be attempted till the part is nearly healed; and it is to be performed with great care, and slowly. ยง. 1. Of Dispositions to neiv Diseases during the cure of Chancres. Chancres, both in men and women, often acquire new dispositions in the time of the cure, which are of various kinds, some of which retard the cure, as described, and, when the parts are cured, leave them tume- fied and indolent, as in the enlarged prepuce. In others a new dispo- sition takes place, which prevents the cure or healing of the parts, and often produces a much worse disease than that from which it arose. They also become the cause of the formation of tumours on these part*, which will be taken notice of hereafter. Such new dispositions take place oftener in men than in women, probably from the nature of the parts themselves. They seldom or