OF THE LUES VENEREA. 393 stance attending this complaint that is any proof of its being venereal*. It rather, however, appears to militate against this idea that, for the most part, a much smaller quantity is sufficient for the cure of such symptoms than what is necessary for the cure of local complaints. But if mer- cury always cured them, it would not be very material what they are called. It is worthy of consideration, however, how far the venereal poison, when in the constitution, does or does not always produce local effects. That it in general does we are certain ; but whether it is ever a cause of constitutional symptoms simply, such as loss of appetite, wasting, debility, want of sleep, and fever, at last becoming hectic, is uncertain; and it is also uncertain whether it is ever capable of pro- ducing local actions from irritations only, without an alteration of the structure of the parts irritated, as cough, secretion from the lungs, purging, headache, sickness, pains in different parts of the body, like rheumatic pains, but not from an alteration of the structure of the part taking place, as beginning nodes. If such effects take place, we must in such a case rely entirely on the history of the disease, and pronounce according to probability. Such complaints come oftener un- der the management of the physician than the surgeon, to whom I would recommend a particular attention to this. The fever in consequence of the venereal irritation, like most other fevers, deranges the constitution, which thereupon suffers agreeably to its natural tendency. It is capable of producing glandular swellings in many parts of the body, and probably many of the nodes that arise in the time of this fever may proceed from the fever; and similar to every such effect, from whatever cause, it does not partake of the disease which produced it, for it is not venereal: it only takes place in consti- tutions very susceptible of such action where the predisposing cause is strong, and probably at seasons most fitted to produce it, only waiting the immediate cause to put them into action. Such will and do go away of themselves when the predisposing cause ceases, such as season. ยง. 4. Of the local and constitutional forms of the Disease nci'cr interfering with one another. I observed, when treating of the gonorrhoea and chancre, that, whenr occurring in the same person, the oue neither increases the symptoms nor retards the cure of the other. And it may also be observed that the chancre or gonorrhoea, and the constitutional form of the disease, * Here it is to be understood that the circumstance of a previous gonorrhoea or chancre is not to bc-considered as strong evidence.