OF CHANCRE. 352 Burface pointed or granulated, much like granulations that are healthy, except that they are harder and rise above the surface. It would appear that the surface on which each is formed has only the disposition to form one, because the surrounding and connecting surface does not go into the like substance: thus a wart once begun does not increase in its basis, but rises higher and higher. They have an increasing power within themselves: for, after rising above the surface of the skin, on which they are not allowed to increase in breadth at the basis, they swell out into a round thick substance, which becomes rougher and rougher. This structure often makes them liable to be hurt by bodies rubbing against them; and often from such a cause they bleed very profusely, and are very painful. These excrescences are considered by many not as simply a conse- quence of the venereal poison, but as possessed of its specific disposition, and therefore they have recourse to mercury for the cure of them; and it is asserted that such treatment often removes them. Such an effect of mercury I have never seen, although given in such a quantity as to cure in the same person recent chancres and sometimes a pox. As these substances are excrescences from the body, they are not to be considered as truly a part of the animal, not being endowed with the common or natural animal powers, by which means the cure becomes easier. They are so little of the true animal, and so much of a disease, that many trifling circumstances make them decay ; an inflammation in the natural and sound parts round the wart will give it a disposition to decay; many stimuli applied to the surface will often make them die. Electricity will produce action in them which they are not able to sup- port ; an inflammation is excited round them, and they drop off. From this view of them, the knife and escharotics must appear not always necessary, although these modes will act more quickly than any other in many cases, especially if the neck is small. In such-fonned warts perhaps a pair of scissors is the best instrument; but where cut- ting instruments of any kind are horrible to the patient, a silk thread tied round their neck will do very well; but, in whichsoever way it is separated, it will be in general necessary to touch the base with caustic. Escharotics act upon warts in two different ways, namely, by dead- ening a part and stimulating the remainder; so that by the application of escharotic after escharotic the whole decays tolerably fast, and it is seldom necessary to eat them down to the very root, as the basis or root often separates and is thrown off. This however is not always the case, for we find that the root does not always separate, and that it will grow again; therefore in such cases it is necessary to eat down lower than the general surface to remove the root.