OF THE LUES VENEREA. 429 sores with the ointment containing precipitate, which still agreed with them. When the mouth first became affected she had not used much above one half of the ointment; and by the time we had discovered the cause about three fourths of it had been expended in dressings, so that there was not quite ten grains of precipitate applied; and although this took up seven or eight days, and the ointment must have been soon re- moved from the sore by the discharge, yet a considerable spitting was produced, which lasted above a month. It is hardly to be conceived that above a grain or two could really be taken into the constitution ; for when we consider the particles of precipitate were covered with oint- ment, and a vast discharge of matter, so as soon to remove this small quantity from the sore, we can hardly admit the possibility of more be- ing absorbed; and if this idea of the quantity taken in is just, to what must we attribute the great susceptibility to the effects of the medicine ? Was it the irritable state of the patient at the time ? For the state of the constitution appeared to me to be that in which the locked jaw often takes place; and I often had this disease in my mind. The patient afterwards got well by the use of an ointment in which pitch was an ingredient*. All this tends to show that sores and internal surfaces absorb better than the skin. Besides the practicability of getting the medicine into the constitu- tion in either way, it is proper to consider the easiest for the patient, each mode having its convenience and inconvenience, winch arises from the nature of the constitution or of the parts to which it is applied, or from certain situations of life of the patient at the time. It is therefore proper to give it in that way which suits these circumstances best. To explain this further, we find that in many patients the bowels can hardly bear mercury at all, therefore it is be given in the mildest form possible ; also joined with such other medicines as will lessen or correct its violent local effects, although not its specific ones on the constitu- tion at large. When it can be thrown into the constitution with propriety by the external method it is preferable to the internal, because the skin is not nearly so essential to life as the stomach, and therefore is capable in itself of bearing much more than the stomach; it also affects the con- stitution much less; many courses of mercury, which are absolutely necessary, would kill the patient if taken by the stomach, proving hurt- ful both to the stomach and intestines, even when given in any form, and joined with the greatest correctors : on the other hand, the way of life will often not allow it to be applied externally. It is not every one • Added : “ A gentleman introduced a bougie into the urethra smeared with mercu- rial ointment, and rubbed in a little on the froenum three times, and his mouth became affected.”—Home.