THE NATURAL HISTORY 32 f PI. VI. f. 1, 2. in the fore part of the mouth*, and they cannot bite at that part so well as at the side of the jaw; and, instead of the grinding motion, which would be useless where there are no grinders, they bruise their food rather by a simple motion of the jaw upwards and downwards. It is from the want of teeth in both these ages that the face is shorter in proportion to its breadth. In an old person, after the teeth are gone the face is shorter while the mouth is shut by almost the whole lengths of the teeth in both jaws; that is, about an inch and a half. From the want of teeth, too, at both those ages, the cavity of the mouth is then smaller, and the tongue seems too large and unmanage- able, more especially in old people. In these last we observe also that the chin projects forwards in proportion as the mouth is shut, be- cause the basis of the lower jaw (which is all that now remains,) de- scribes a wider circle than the alveolar process in younger people. The jaws do not project so much forwards in a child as in an adult; hence the face is flatter, especially at the lower part. In proportion as the last grinders are produced, the sides of the curve formed by the jaws become longer, and push forward the fore part, none of the additional part passing backwards. The fore part also continues nearly of the same size, so that the whole jaw is longer in proportion to its breadth, and projects further forwards. Of the Formation of the Alveolar Processes. Having considered the alveolar processes in their adult, or perfect state, we shall next examine and trace them from their beginning. We may observe the beginning of the alveolar process at a very early period. In a fcetus of three or four months it is only a longitudinal groove, deeper and narrower forwards, and becoming gradually more shallow and wider backwards : instead of bony partitions, dividing that groove into a number of sockets, there are only slight ridges across the bottom and sides, with intermediate depressions, which mark the situ- ation of the future alveoli f. In the lower jaw the vessels and nerves run along the bottom of this alveolar cavity in a slight groove, which afterwards becomes a com- plete and distinct bony canal. • PI. IV., where the symphysis of the lower jaw, when the mouth is shut, projects considerably further forwards than that of the upper.