61 OF THE TEETH. stumps are gradually protruded. But although they are pushed out at the bottom, they seldom or never project further beyond the gum than at first; and that part of the tooth which projects seems to decay in proportion to its projection. Besides this decay at the external end of the stump, there is an absorption of the fang at the bottom, which is known by the following observation : the end of the stump, which was in the gum or jaw, becomes irregularly blunted, and often rough, and has not the appearance of the end of the fang of a sound tooth. Such stumps are in general easily extracted, being attached often to little more than the gum, and that sometimes loosely. Although the disease appears to be chiefly in the tooth itself, and but little to depend on external causes, yet in many cases the part which is already rotten seems to have some influence upon that which remains; for if the rotten part be perfectly removed before it has ar- rived at the canal of the tooth, a stop is sometimes put to the further progress of the decay, at least for a time. However, this is not constantly so ; it is oftener the contrary ; but it is expedient in most cases to make this trial, as it is always right to keep a tooth clean and free from specks. This decay of the teeth does not seem to be so entirely the effect of accident as might be imagined; for it sometimes takes place in them by pairs, in which case we may suppose it owing to an original cause coming into action at its stated time ; the corresponding teeth being in pairs with respect to the disease, as well as to situation, shape, &c. This opinion is somewhat strengthened by the fore teeth in the lower jaw not being so subject to decay as those in the upper, although equally liable to all accidents arising from external influence which could produce the disease in general. The fore teeth in the lower jaw appear to be less subject to this disease than any of the others ; the fore teeth in the upper jaw, and the grinders in both, are of course more frequently affected. This disease and its consequences seem to be peculiar to youth and middle age; the shedding teeth are as subject to it, if not more so, than those intended to last through life; and we seldom or ever see any person whose teeth begin to rot after the age of fifty years. This might be supposed to arise from the disproportion that the number of teeth after fifty bear to them before it; but the number of diseased teeth after fifty do not bear the same proportion. This disease has not hitherto been accounted for: if it had been always on the inside of the cavity, it might have been supposed to be owing to a deficiency of nourishment from some fault in the vascular system; but as it begins most commonly externally, in a part where