65 OF THE TEETH. more troublesome commonly in winter than in summer. Extraneous matter entering the cavity, and touching the nerve and vessels, will also bring on the pain. This pain is frequently observed to be periodical; sometimes there being a perfect intermission, sometimes only an abatement of it. The paroxysm comes on once in twenty-four hours, and for the most part towards the evening. The bark has therefore been tried ; but that fail- ing, the disorder has been suspected to be of the rheumatic kind, and treated accordingly w’ith no better success. At length, after a more particular examination of the teeth, one of them has been suspected to be unsound ; and, being extracted, has put an end to the disorder. This shows how injudicious it is to give medicines in such cases, while the true state of the tooth is unknown. This disease is often the cause of bad breath, more so than any other disease of those parts, especially when it has exposed the cavity of the tooth. This most probably arises from the rotten part of the tooth and the juices of the mouth and food all stagnating in this hollow part, which is warm, and hastens putrefaction in them. I come now to the prevention and cure of this disease. The first thing to be considered is the cure of the decaying state of the tooth, or rather the means of preventing the further progress of the decay; and more especially before it has reached the cavity, whereby the tooth may be in some degree preserved, the consequent pain and inflammations, commonly called tootli-ache, avoided, and often the con- sequent abscesses called gum-boils. I believe, however, that no such means of absolute prevention are as yet known. The progress of the disease, in some cases, appears to have been retarded by removing that part which is already decayed; but experience shows that there is but little dependence upon this practice. I have known cases where the black spot having been filed off- and scooped entirely out, the decay has stopped for many years. This practice is supposed to prevent at least any effect that the part already rotten may have upon the sounder parts; however, if this is all the good that arises from this practice, I believe in most cases it might be as well omitted. Even if it were an effectual practice, it could not be an universal one; for it is not always in the power of the operator to remove this decayed part, either on account of its situation, or on account of its having made too great a progress before it is discovered. When it is on the basis of a grinder, or on the posterior side of its neck, it can scarcely be reached. It becomes also impracticable when the disease is still allowed to go on, and the cavity becomes exposed, so that the patient is now liable to all the VOL. XI. F