SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 313 testicle ever since has continued gradually to decrease, and is no larger than a horsebean; indeed the body of the testicle is quite decayed, no- thing remaining but what seems part of the epididymis. It appears to have no sense of pain, except when pressed, and is very hard and uneven on its surface. The spermatic chord is not in the least affected. Oc- tober 20, 1777, he was seized in the same manner in the right testicle, without any apparent cause, whereupon I was applied to. He was im- mediately bled, took an opening mixture, after that a saline mixture, with tartar emetic ; and a fomentation and embrocation of spiritus min- dereri, and spiritus vini, was used. On the "27th a cataplasm was ap- plied of linseed meal and aqua vegeto-mineralis. This treatment was persisted in till about the middle of November. The inflammation went off, and the testicle seemed much in the natural state. On De- cember 19 I was applied to again; it seemed to be growing hard, and decreasing in size, much in the same manner as the other had done, which made him very unhappy. I ordered him some pills with calomel and tartar emetic, in hopes of increasing the secretion of the glands in general, and making some change in the testicle. At first this method seemed to be of service, but soon lost its effects, and the testicle began to decrease just as the other did.” Mr. Adair and Mr. Pott were con- sulted with me, but nothing could be thought of that could give any hopes of success. I advised him to employ the parts in their natural uses, as much as inclination led him; but all wras to no purpose, the testicle continued to decrease till not a vestige was left. Case III: communicated by Dr. Cothom of Worcester. “ A young man, aged sixteen, wras suddenly seized with great coldness and shi- vering, attended writh frequent rigors. During this paroxysm, w'hich coutinned three hours, his pulse was small and contracted, and so ex- ceedingly quick that the strokes of the artery were with difficulty counted. This period was succeeded by an iutense heat, and a strong, hard, full, pulse, on which account he was copiously bled; a dose of cooling physic was immediately administered, and a clyster thrown up to promote its more speedy effects. In the evening the bleeding was repeated. All this day he complained of excruciating pain in his loins and the side of his belly, descending down into the scrotum. On examining the part affected, I saw an appearance of inflammation in the groin of the left side, and a great tension about the ring of the abdominal muscles, with an enlargement of the testicles. These parts were now ordered to be fomented with a discutient fotus, strongly impregnated with crude sal ammoniac, and to be bathed -with spiritus mindereri and spiritus volat. aromat., before the application of each stupe; and he was directed to take six grains of the pulv. antimonialis, with fifteen grains of nitre