2G0 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. making an opening into the urethra somewhere beyond the stricture, and the nearer to the stricture the better. The method of performing the operation is first to pass a director or some such instrument into the urethra, as far as the stricture; then to make the end of the instrument as prominent externally as possible, so as to be felt, which in such a case is often difficult, and sometimes im- possible. If it can be felt, it must be cut upon, and the incision carried on a little further towards the bladder or anus, so as to open the ure- thra beyond the stricture; this will be sufficient to allow' the urine to escape, and to destroy the stricture. If the instrument cannot be felt at first by the finger, we must cut down towards it, which will bring it within the feel of the finger, and afterwards proceed as above directed. If the stricture in the urethra be opposite to the scrotum, it being impossible to make the opening there, it must be made in the perimrum, in which case there can be no direction given by an instrument, as one cannot be made to pass so far; therefore wre must be guided by our knowledge of the parts. The opening being made, the stricture is to be searched for as described in the operation, in cases w’here a false passage has been made, by passing a probe from the w'ound fonvards, towards the glans. The other steps of the operation will be nearly the same. In whichsoever way the operation is performed a bougie must be introduced, and the wround healed up over it. In my opinion a ca- theter answers this purpose better. Great attention should be still paid to the inflammation, which arises in consequence of the urine having been diffused in the cellular mem- brane, as before described. Where the inflammation is attended with suppuration and mortification, it will be necessary, as well in this case as in that where no operation is required, to scarify the parts freely, to give an opening both to the urine and pus. Where mortification has taken place in the skin, the scarifications should be made in the morti- fied parts, if it can be done with equal advantage, and this with a view to prevent irritation. In total suppressions of urine, from whatever cause, the urine should never be allow'ed to accumulate, and should either be drawn off fre- quently, or a catheter should be kept continually in the urethra and bladder, because we should on no account allow' the bladder to be dis- tended beyond an easy state ; for if it be, it always brings on debili- tating and alarming symptoms, as paralysis of that viscus. In many suppressions of urine, as in cases of strictures, it is impossible to draw off the water. In some cases w'here the urethra is ulcerated, and the urine gets into the cellular membrane of the penis and prepuce, so as to distend them much, producing a phimosis, it becomes impossible to find