302 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. CHAPTER XI. OF THE DISCHARGE OF THE NATURAL MUCUS OF THE GLANDS OF THE URETHRA. The small glands of the urethra and Cowper’s glands secrete a slimy mucus, similar to the white of an egg not coagulated. This seldom appears externally, or flows from the urethra, but during the indulgence of lascivious thoughts, and is seldom or never attended to, excepting by those who are either under apprehensions of a gonorrhoea coming on, or imagine the last infection is not gone off entirely, and are therefore kept in constant terror by this natural discharge. They often find it in such quantity as to leave spots on the shirt, but without colour; and often after toying, the lips of the urethra are, as it were, glued together by it, from its drying there, which appearances alarm the mind of the patient without cause. Although this is only a natural discharge, and is se- creted, at such times, under the same influence which naturally pro- duces it, it must be owned that it is commonly much increased in those cases of debility arising from the mind, which is probably not easily to be accounted for. It would seem that the contest between the mind and the body increases this secretion, for it cannot be considered as a disease of the parts. §. 1. Of the Discharge of the Secretions of the Prostate Gland and Vesiculec Seminales. This complaint is imagined to be the consequence of the venereal disease in the urethra; but how far this is really the case is not certain, though most probably it is not. It is a discharge of mucus by the ure- thra which generally comes away with the last drops of urine, especi- ally if the bladder is irritable, and still more at the time of being at stool, particularly if the patient be costive, for under such circum- stances the straining or actions of the muscles of those parts are more violent. It has generally been supposed that this discharge is semen, and the disease is called a seminal weakness ; but it appears, from many experiments and observations, that the discharge is undoubtedly not semen. It is only the mucus secreted either by the prostate gland, by