53 OF THE HUMAN TEETH. But if their meaning were that the human teeth are not fitted tor eating meat that has been caught, killed, and dressed by art, in all the various ways that the superiority of the human mind can invent, they are in the wrong. Indeed, from this confined way of thinking, it would be hard to say what the human teeth arc fitted for, because, by the same reasoning, man is not a graminivorous animal, as his teeth are not fitted for pulling vegetable food, &c. They are not made like those of cows or horses, for example. The light in which we ought to view this subject is, that man is a more perfect or complicated animal than any other, and is not made, like others, to come at his food by his teeth, but by his hands, directed by his superior ingenuity, the teeth being given only for the purpose of chewing the food, in order to its more easy digestion ; and they, as well as his other organs of digestion, are fitted for the conversion of both animal and vegetable substances into blood, and thence he is able to live in a much greater variety of circumstances than any other animal, and has more opportunities of exercising the faculties of his mind. He ought, therefore, to be considered as a compound, fitted equally to live upon flesh and upon vegetables. Of the Diseases of the Teeth. The teeth arc subject to diseases as well as other parts of the body. Whatever the disorder is that affects them, it is generally attended with pain; and from this, indeed, we commonly first know that they are affected. Pain in the teeth proceeds, I believe, in a great measure from the air coming into contact with the nerve in the cavity of the tooth, for we sel- dom see people affected with the tooth-ache but when the cavity is ex- posed to the air. It is not easy to say by what means the cavity comes to be exposed. The most common disease to which the teeth are subject begins with a small dark-coloured speck, generally on the side of the tooth where it is not exposed to pressure; from what cause this arises is hitherto unknown. The substance of the tooth thus discoloured gradually de- cays, and an opening is made into the cavity. As soon as the air is thereby admitted a considerable degree of pain arises, which is probably owing to the admission of the air, as it may be prevented by filling the cavity with lead, wax, &c. This pain is not always present; the food and other substances perhaps fill up the hole occasionally, and prevent the access of the air, and of consequence the pain, during the time they