OF THE LUES VENEREA. 405 CHAPTER II. OF THE SYMPTOMS OF THE LUES VENEREA. When the venereal matter has affected the constitution in any of the ways before mentioned, it has the whole body to work upon, and shows itself in a variety of shapes; many of which putting on the appearance of a different disease, we are often obliged to have recourse to the pre- ceding history of the case before we can form any judgement of it. Probably the varieties in the appearances may be referred to the three following circumstances: the different kinds of constitutions, the dif- ferent kinds of solids affected, and the different dispositions which the solids are in at the time ; for I can easily conceive that a peculiarity of constitution may make a very material difference in the appearance of the same specific complaint, and I am certain that the solids, according to their different natures, produce a very different appearance when at- tacked with this disease; and I can also easily conceive that a dif- ferent disposition from the common in the solids at the time may make a considerable difference in the appearances. The difference of constitution, and of the same parts at different times, may have considerable effects in the disease with respect to its appear- ing sooner or later. This I am certain of, that the different parts of the body produce a very considerable difference in the times of appear- ance of this disease. That it appears much sooner in some parts than in others is best seen where different parts arc affected in the same person ; for I have already endeavoured to show that it is most probable that all the parts affected are contaminated nearly at the same time. This difference in the times is either owing to some parts being natu- rally put into action more easily by the poison than others, or they are naturally more active in themselves, and therefore probably will admit more quickly the action of every disease that is capable of affecting them. When on the general history of the lues venerea. I divided the parts into two orders, according to the time of their appearance. I also ob- served that the first were commonly the external parts, as the skin, nose, tonsils ; and that the second were more internal, as the bones, periosteum, fasciae, and tendons. The time necessary for its appearance, or for producing its local effects in the several parts of the body most readily affected, after it has gut into the constitution, is uncertain, but in general it is about six