OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 17 of the earthy part by steeping in an acid, is more compact than the same substance in other bones, but still is soft and flexible. That part of a tooth which is bony has nearly the same form as a complete tooth ; and hence, when the enamel is removed, it has the same sort of edge or points as the enamel itself. We cannot by injec- tion prove that the bony part of a tooth is vascular; but from some circumstances it would appear that it is so: for the fangs of teeth are liable to swellings, seemingly of the spina ventosa kind, like other bones, and they sometimes anchylose with the socket by bony and inflexible continuity, as all other contiguous bones are apt to do.' But there may be a deception here, for the swelling may be an original formation, and the anchylosis may arise from the pulp, upon which the tooth is formed, being united with the socket. The following considera- tions would seem to show that the teeth are not vascular: first, I never saw them injected iu any preparation, nor could I ever succeed in any attempt to inject them, either in young or old subjects, and therefore believe that there must have been some fallacy in the cases where they have been said to be injected. Secondly, we are not able to trace any vessels going from the pulp into the substance of the new-formed tooth ; and whatever part of a tooth is formed, it is always completely formed, which is not the case with other bones. But, reasoning from analogy, we have a still more convincing proof in the effect of madder. Take, for example, any young animal, as a pig, and feed it with madder for three or four weeks; then kill the animal, and upon exa- mination you will find the following appearances : first, if this animal had some parts of its teeth formed before the feeding with madder, those parts will be known by their remaining of the natural colour; but such parts of the teeth as were formed while the animal was taking the madder will be found to be of a red colour. This shows that it is only those parts that were formed while the animal was taking the madder that are dyed; for what were already formed will not be found in the least tinged. This is different in all other bones, for we know that any part of a bone which is already formed is capable of being dyed with madder, though not so fast as the part that is forming; there- fore, as we know that all other bones when formed are vascular, and are thence susceptible of the dye, we may readily suppose that the teeth are not vascular, because they are not susceptible of it after being once formed. But we shall carry this still further; if you feed a pig with madder for some time, and then leave it off for a considerable time be- fore you kill the animal, you will find the above appearances still sub- sisting, with this addition, that all the parts of the teeth which were formed after leaving off feeding with the madder will be white. Here VOL. II. C