335 OF CHANCRE. but I have my doubts about the propriety of using any irritating medi- cines or injections in such cases. As often as he voids his urine the patient may wash the parts, by press- ing the orifice of the prepuce together, so as to oblige the water to run back between the prepuce and glans ; immediately after this the patient should use the mercurial applications, otherwise this operation ot wash- ing may do harm, as it will wash away the former application of mer- cury ; but in many cases the parts are so sore as not to allow' of this practice. A poultice of linseed meal alone, or of equal parts of this and bread, should be applied. This poultice is to be made with water, to which one eighth of laudanum has been added. But previous to this, and im- mediately after the cleaning, it would be very proper to let the penis hang over the steam of hot water, with a little vinegar and spirits of wine in it, which is the neatest way of applying fomentations. The oftener this is practised the better, for thus a mercurial applica- tion is kept in contact with the diseased parts a greater number of the hours out of the twenty-four, than otherwise could be were the matter allowed to lie on the parts. When to the above-mentioned symptoms a bleeding of the chancre is added, I do not know a more troublesome complaint, because here the cells or veins have no great disposition for contraction*. Oil of tur- pentine gives the best stimulus for the contraction of vessels of all kinds; but where bleeding arises from an irritable action of the vessels, which is sometimes the case, then sedatives are the best applications. What- ever is used in such a state of the prepuce must be injected into the part. When in consequence of the treatment the inflammation begins to go oflf, and the chancres to heal, it will be necessary to move the prepuce upon the glans as much as they will allow of, to prevent adhesions which sometimes happen when there have been chancres on both sur- faces opposite to each other. Indeed the practice here recommended is such as will in general prevent such consequences. If this has not been properly attended to, and the parts have grown together, the consequences may not be bad; but it must be very disa- greeable to the patient, and a reflection upon the surgeon. I have seen the opening into the prepuce so much contracted from all these internal ulcers healing and uniting, that there was hardly any • I suspect that where chancres bleed profusely, the blood comes either from the glans, when there are chancres there, or from the spongy substance of the urethra, where the chancre lias begun about the frrenum, for we seldom see profuse bleedings from the prepuce when its inside is the seat of the chancre, and can be exposed; but indeed in such cases the inflammation is not violent.