OF CHANCRE. 331 the chancre, when the surrounding parts are not as yet contaminated, because it is absolutely necessary that the whole diseased part should be removed, which is done with difficulty when it has spread consider- ably. It may be done either by incision or by caustic. If the chancre appears upon the glans, touching it with the lunar caustic is preferable to incision, because the haemorrhage by such a mode would be conside- rable from the cells of the glans. The common sensation of the glans is not very acute, therefore the caustic will give but little pain. The caustic to be used should be pointed at the end like a pencil, that it may only touch those parts that are really diseased. This treatment should be continued till the sur- face of the sore looks red and healthy, after having thrown off the last sloughs ; after it has arrived at this state, it will be found to heal like any other sore produced by a caustic. If the sore is upon the prepuce, or upon the common skin of the pe- nis, and in its incipient state, the same practice may be followed with success ; but if it has spread considerably, it is then out of the power of the caustic, when only applied in this slow manner, to go so deep as to keep pace with the increasing sore, but it is very probable that the lapis septicus may answer very well in such cases. When this cannot be conveniently used, incision will answer the purpose effectually. I have taken out a chancre by dissection, and the sore has healed up with common dressings. However, as our knowdedge of the extent of the disease is not always certain, and as this uncertainty increases as the size of the chancre, it becomes necessary in some degree to assist the cure by proper dressings, and therefore it may be prudent to dress the sore with mercurial ointment. From such treatment there is but little danger of the constitution being infected, especially if the chancre has been destroyed almost immediately upon its appearance, as we may then reasonably suppose there has not been time for absorption. But, as it must be in most cases uncertain whether there has been absorp- tion or not, this practice is not always to be trusted to, and from that circumstance perhaps never should; and therefore, even in those cases where the chancre has been removed almost immediately, it. would be prudent to give some medicine internally, the quantity of which should be proportioned to the time and progress of the sore ; but if it has spread to a considerable size before extirpation, then mercury is absolutely ne- cessary, and perhaps not a great deal is gained by the extiqmtion*. * [The treatment of chancres by caustic or extirpation is more beautiful in tiieory than commendable in practice. It is impossible to know with certainty to what di- stance the virus has extended, and the whole of the contaminated parts may not there-