OF THE LUES VENEREA. 407 disposing cause, that is cold. I should, however, suspect that warmth does not contribute much to their indolence of action; for if it did it would assist in the cure, which it appears not to do, these parts being as slow in their operations of restoration as they are in their actions of disease. We may also observe that similar parts come sooner into ac- tion, and appear to go on more rapidly with it, as they are nearer the source of the circulation. It appears earlier on the face, head, shoul- ders, and breast than on the legs, and the eruptions come sooner to sup- puration in the before-mentioned parts r. The circumstance of its being very late in appearing in some parts, when- it had been only cured in its first appearances, as mentioned, has made many suppose that the poison lurked somewhere in the solids; and others that it kept circulating in the blood for years. It is not, however, easy to determine this point; but there can be no good reason for the first hypothesis, as the lurking disposition never takes place prior to its first appearance ; for instance, we never find that a man had a chancre a twelvemonth ago, and that it broke out after in venereal scurfs upon the skin, or ulcers in the throat. The slowness of its progress is only when the parts less susceptible of its irritation have been affected by it. ยง. 1. Of the Symptoms of the first stage of the Lues Venerea. The first symptoms of the disease, after absorption, appear either on the skin, throat, or mouth. These differ from one another according to the nature of the parts affected. I shall therefore divide them into two kinds, although there appears to be no difference in the nature of the disease itself. The appearance on the skin I shall call the first, although it is not always the first appearance; for that in the throat is often as early a symptom as any. The appearances upon the skin generally show themselves in every part of the body, no part being more susceptible than another, first in discolorations, making the skin appear mottled, many of them disappearing, while others continue and increase with the disease f. In others it will come on in distinct blotches, often not observed till scurfs are forming; at other times they appear in small distinct inflam- mations, containing matter and resembling pimples, but not so pyra- midal, nor so red at the base. \ enereal blotches, at their first coming out, are often attended with * See Introduction. t This is not peculiar to this disease; it often takes place in the smallpox.