OF BUBO. 362 as high as the lower part of the belly, before Poupart’s ligament, and sometimes near the pubes, all of which three situations may lead to some variations in the method of cure; therefore it may be proper to attend to them. As the disease most commonly arises from copulation, the situation of buboes is generally in the groin; but as no part of the body, under certain circumstances, is exempt from this disease, we find the nearest external glands between the part of absorption and the heart, everywhere in the body share the same fate with those of the groin, especially if external. CHAPTER II. OF BUBOES IN WOMEN. The same diseases in the absorbents, in consequence of the absoq>tion of the venereal matter, take place in this sex as well as in men. I never saw but one case where the absorbent vessels were diseased; but this is nearly in the same proportion as in men, when I consider the proportion the number of the one sex bears to that of the other who apply to me for a cure of the venereal disease in any form. The case was a gonorrhoea, with violent itching and soreness when the patient sat or walked ; but she had very little pain in making water. When I examined the parts, I could see no difference between them and sound parts, excepting that the left labium was swelled, or fuller than the other, and a hard chord passed from the centre of that labium upwards to the os pubis, and passed on to the groin of the same side, anti was lost in a gland as high as Poupart’s ligament. It was not to be felt but by pressing the parts with some force, and it gave considerable pain upon pressure. The swelling of the labium appeared to be somewhat similar to the swelling of the prepuce in similar cases in men, so that they would ap- pear to arise from the same cause. One would naturally suppose that what has been said of this com- plaint in the lymphatic glands in men, would be wholly applicable to women, and also that nothing peculiar to women could take place ; but the seat of absorption is more extensive in tliis sex, and the course of