OF GONORRHCRA. 178 When the gonorrhoea (exclusive of the affections arising from sym- pathy) is not more violent than I have described, it may he called com- mon or simple venereal gonorrhoea; but if the patient is very suscep- tible of such irritation, or of any other mode of action which may accom- pany the venereal, then the symptoms are in proportion more violent. In such circumstances we sometimes find the irritation and inflammation exceed the specific distance, and extend through the whole of the ure- thra. There is often also a considerable degree of pain in the perinaeum; and a frequent though not a constant symptom is a spasmodic contrac- tion of the acceleratores urinae, which is always attended with contrac- tions of the erectores muscles. Whether these spasms arise from a se- cretion of matter, which being collected in the bulbous part of the ure- thra produces uneasiness, and excites contractions in order to its own expulsion, like the last drops of urine, I have not been able to determine. I have seen such spasms in the time of making water, from the urine irritating the parts in its passage through the urethra, and throwing the musculi acceleratores into contractions, so that the water has come by jerks. This kind of inflammation sometimes is considerable, goes deep into the cellular membrane, and produces tumefaction without any other effect*. In other cases it goes on to suppuration, often becoming one of the causes of fistula: in perinaeo. I have sometimes, as I have already observed, suspected Cowper’s glands to be the seat of such suppurations ; for I have observed externally circumscribed swellings in the situation of those glands. The small glands likewise of the bulbous part of the urethra may be affected in a similar manner; and the irritation is often extended even to the bladder itselff. When the bladder is affected it becomes more susceptible of every kind of irritation, so that very disagreeable symptoms are often produced: it will not allow of the usual distention, and therefore the patient can- not retain his water the ordinary time; and the moment the desire of making water takes place, he is obliged instantly to make it, with violent pain in the bladder, and still more in the glans penis, exactly similar to what happens in a fit of the stone. If the bladder be not allowed to discharge its contents immediately, the pain becomes almost intolerable ; and even when the water is evacuated, there remains for some time a considerable pain both in the bladder and glans, because the very con- traction of the muscular coat of the bladder becomes a cause of pain. * Added: “ There is often a pain in the urethra after making water, in the same part in which it is usually felt while the water passes; this I believe to be the effect of the contraction of the internal membranes, which lasts for some time after the action has ceased.”—Home. •f* Added: “ This happens more commonly towards the going off of the gonorrhoea." —Home.