OP GONORRHOEA. 217 The first of the continued symptoms may be reckoned the remains of the disagreeable sehsations excited .by the original disease. The second, the discharge called a gleet. The third, the chordee. The fourth, the irritable state of the bladder. The fifth, the increase and hardness of the epididymis. ยง. 1. Of the remains of the disagreeable Setisations excited by the original Disease. The disagreeable sensations which continue in the urethra and glans occur most frequently when the bladder has sympathised with the ure- thra during the disease; for then there are often the remains of the old shooting pains in the glans, or on its surface, which take their rise from the bladder. These, however, commonly go off, seldom being the fore- runners of any bad symptoms, and therefore are not to be considered as part of the disease, but merely a consequence; yet they are often very troublesome and teazing to the patient, keeping his mind in doubt whether he is cured or not, which makes him frequently become the dupe of ignorant or designing men. As these remaining sensations vary considerably in their nature, per- haps no one method of treatment will always be proper. I have known a bougie, introduced a few times, take off entirely the disagreeable sen- sation in the urethra; and I have known it do no good. Gentle irri- tating injections, used occasionally, will often alleviate in some degree those complaints. A grain of corrosive sublimate to eight ounces of water makes a good injection for this purpose ; but all such applica- tions are in general no more than palliatives. I have known the use of hemlock relieve the symptoms very' much, and in some cases entirely cure them; while in many others it has not had the least effect. A blister applied to the perinaeum will entirely cure some of the re- maining symptoms, even when they extend towards the bladder, as will be explained hereafter: indeed it appears to have more effect than any other remedy. A blister to the small of the back will also give relief, but not so effectually as when applied to the perinaeum. The following cases are remarkable instances of this. A Portuguese gentleman, about twenty-five years of age, had contracted a venereal gonorrhoea, of which he was cured ; but two years after, many of the symptoms still continued, and even with considerable violence. The symptoms were the following : a frequency in making water, and when