376 OF BUBO. prived of the venereal disposition, form into a sore of another kind, and most probably of various kinds. How far it is a disease arising from a venereal taint and the effects of a mercurial course jointly is not cer- tain ; but most probably these two have some share iu forming the dis- ease. If this idea of it were just, it would become a specific disease and be reducible to one method of cure ; but I should suspeef that either the constitution or the part hath some, if not the principal, share in it; that is, the parts fall into a peculiar disease independent of the constitutional disease or method of cure ; for if it arose out of the two first entirely, we might expect to meet with it oftener. So far as the constitution or the part has a share in forming this disease, it becomes more uncertain what the disease is, because it must in some degree par- take of the constitution or nature of the part. Such diseases make the cure of the venereal affection much more un- certain, because when the sore becomes stationary, or the mercury begins to disagree, we are ready to suspect that the virus is gone ; but this is not always the case : the virus is perhaps only less powerful than the new-formed disease, and as it were lies dormant, or ceases to act; and when the other becomes weaker, the venereal influence begins to show itself again. The proper treatment in such cases is to attack the predominant dis- ease ; but still the difficulty is to find out the disease, and to know when it is or is not venereal. The following case explains this difficulty very well. A gentleman had a very large venereal bubo, which was opened. He took a great deal of mercury for about two months ; but, I suspect, not in sufficient doses, which produced a mercurial habit. The bubo had no disposition to heal, and I was consulted. From the account he gave me, I suspected that he had then too much of a mercurial habit to re- ceive at this time any further good from that medicine. I therefore advised him to use a good nourishing diet for near a month ; after that I put him upon a brisk mercurial course by friction; and the parts put on a better appearance. This course he continued for near turn months, and then the sore, although much mended, began to be stationary. I did now conceive that the venereal action was destroyed, and therefore immediately left off the mercurial course, and put him upon a milk diet, and sent him into the country. But not gaining much ground, he had a strong decoction of the sarsaparilla with mezereon given him, which, although continued for above a month, produced little or no effect. I also gave him the cicuta as much as he could bear, with the bark almost the whole time, without effect: new sinuses formed, which were opened, and the sore became extremely irritable, with thickened lips. The