OF GONORRHCEA. 207 it is always necessary to have in view the possibility of some of the matter being absorbed, and afterwards appearing in the form of a lues venerea, to prevent which I should be inclined to give small doses of mercury internally. At what time this mercurial course should begin is not easily ascertained ; but if the observation be just, that a disposi- tion once formed is not to be cured by mercury, but that mercury has the power of preventing a disposition from forming, as was formerly explained, we should begin early, and continue it to the end of the dis- ease, till the formation of venereal matter ceases, and even for some time after. The mercurial ointment may be used where mercury dis- agrees with the stomach and intestines. This practice appears to be more necessary if the discharge has con- tinued a considerable time, and especially if the treatment has been simply by evacuants, for in the former case there is a greater time for absorption, and in the latter we may suppose a greater call for it, such medicines having no effect in carrying off the virus. To prevent a lues venerea being produced from absorption, a grain of mercurius calcinatus taken every night, or one at night and another in the morning, may be sufficient; but should be continued in propor- tion to the duration of the disease. The success of this practice in any particular case can never be as- certained, because it is impossible to say when matter has been absorbed, except in cases of buboes; and where it is not known to be absorbed, it is impossible to say that there would have been a lues venerea if mer- cury had not been given, as very few are infected from a gonorrhoea, although they have taken no mercury. It is, however, safest to give mercury, as we may reasonably suppose it will often prevent a lues venerea, as it does when given during the cure of a chancre or bubo, where we know, from experience, that without it the lues venerea would certainly take place.*1 * [The principles which the author has laid down for the treatment of gonorrhcea, though generally correct, yet require some modification. In one or two instances he seems to have been misled by opinions, which are at the least very questionable. It is pretty well established, that a course of mercury is neither necessary nor useful in a gonorrhcea: it has no peculiar influence on the course of the disorder, and it is an error to suppose that it is necessary for the sake of preventing secondary symptoms; and this is equally true, notwithstanding the occurrence of suppuration in the glands of the urethra, or in the groin, or of breach of surface from any other cause. At the same time mercury is not particularly hurtful, except it be given in such doses, and for such a length of time, as would materially depress the general tone, render the urine alkaline, or induce universal irritability of the system. From the opinion, “that no matter of whatever kind can produce any effect on the part that forms it’’ (see p. 164), the author has been led to disregard altogether the