4S4 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. stance of the former opinion ; but I gave it as my opinion that it was not, I desired she might go to the sea and bathe, which she did, and got per- fectly well, both in the jaw and leg, and has continued so ever since. Ihe second case of this kind I have seen was also in a young lady ; the transplanted tooth fastened extremely well, and continued so for about a month, when the gum began to ulcerate, leaving the tooth and socket bare. 1 he ulcer continued, and blotches appeared upon the skin, and ulcers also in the throat. The disease was treated as venereal, the complaints gave way to this course, but they recurred several times after very severe courses of mercury : however, she at last got well. fTie only observation I can make on this case is, that the symptoms re- curred after continued courses of mercury much oftener than is usual in venereal cases, and I had my suspicions all along that it was scrofulous. The third case was of a gentleman, where the transplanted tooth re- mained, without giving the least disturbance, for about a month, when the edge of the gum began to ulcerate, and the ulceration went on till the tooth dropped out. Some time after, spots appeared almost every- where on the skin ; they had not the truly venereal appearance, but were redder or more transparent, and more circumscribed. He had also a tendency to a hectic fever, such as restlessness, want of sleep, loss of appetite, and headache. After trying several things, and not finding relief, he was put under a course of mercury, and all disease disappeared according to the common course of the cure of the venereal disease, and we thought him well; but some time after the same appearances re- turned, with the addition of swelling in the bones of the metacarpus. He was now put under another course of mercury more severe than the former, and in the usual time all the symptoms again disappeared. Se- veral months after the same eruptions came out again, but not in so great a degree as before, and without any other attendant symptoms. He a third time took mercury, but it was only ten grains of corrosive sublimate in the whole, and he got quite well. The time between his first taking mercury and his being cured was a space of three years. Query : Could this case be venereal ? The two first courses of mer- cury removing the eruptions would seem to prove it was ; but the third course also removing them, which consisted of only ten grains of cor- rosive sublimate, would seem to prove that it could not be venereal; for if it had, the appearances which returned after the second course, in which a considerable quantity of mercury had been given, would not have yielded to ten grains. The fourth case was that of a young lady who had a tooth trans- planted, and about the same distance of time after it, as mentioned in the former cases, the gum began to ulcerate, and the ulceration was making considerable progress. The surgeon who was first consulted desired