260 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. of this passage, and also of the prostate gland and bladder, there is commonly an uneasiness about the perimeum, anus, and lower part of the abdomen, and the patient can hardly cross his legs without pain. CHAPTER II. OF THE PERMANENT STRICTURE. In the permanent stricture* the patient seldom complains till he can hardly procure a passage for the urine ; and frequently has a considera- ble degree of strangury, and even other symptoms that happen in stone and gravel, which are therefore too frequently supposed to be the causes of the complaint. The disease generally occupies no great length of the passage; at least, in most of the cases that I have seen, it extended no further in breadth than if the part had been surrounded with a piece of packthread, and in many it had a good deal of that appearance. I have, however, seen the urethra irregularly contracted for above an inch in length, owing to its coats or internal membrane being irregularly thickened, and forming a winding canal. A stricture does not arise in all cases from an equal contraction of the urethra all round, but in some from a contraction of one side, which probably has given the idea of its having arisen from an ulcer on that side. This contraction of one side only throws the passage to the op- posite side, which often renders it difficult to pass the bougie. The contracted part is whiter than any other part of the urethra, and is harder in its consistence. In some few cases there are more strictures than one. I have seen half a dozen in one urethra, some of which were more contracted than others; aud indeed many urethras that have a stricture have small tightnesses in other parts of them. This we learn from successive resistance felt in passing the bougie. Every part of the urethra is not equally subject to strictures, for there appears to be one part which is much more liable to them than the whole of the urethra besides, that is, about the bulbous part. We find them, however, sometimes on this side of the bulb, but very seldom be- * Vide Plato IX, fig 1