410 OF T1IE LUES VENEREA. 1 he second part in which it appears is most commonly the throat, sometimes the mouth and tongue. In the throat, tonsils, and inside of must greatly elucidate the whole subject, and ultimately facilitate the knowledge of those other varieties which are not included in the list. The mottled state of the skin, to which allusion is made by the author, is certainly found in venereal cases. Yet a similar appearance is often seen in cases where no ve- nereal cause can be assigned; nor does there seem to be any peculiarity by which the one case can be distinguished from the other. It may be doubted whether this mottled colour denotes more than an irritability of the skin, and a general disposition to erup- tive disorders. The more distinct sorts of venereal eruption may be divided into the following classes: 1. Tubercles.—The original seat of the tubercle is probably in the sebaceous glands, certainly in some structure which is below the surface of the cutis. This is sufficiently evident from its aspect at the period of its commencement. It appears in the first in- stance as a small hard substance like a pea, which may be felt by the finger before there is sufficient discoloration to attract the notice of the eye. At this period the eruption is scarcely discernible if the light falls directly on the part, though if it is viewed by a side light the prominence is sufficient to cast a distinct shadow. However, this stage is of short duration: the inflammation soon reaches the surface, and the spot then wears the appearance of a small red elevation, evenly rounded on the surface. In the next place the cuticle dies, and becomes detached from the cutis; but it usually remains for a time, forming a horny cap, which covers the surface, and protects the formation of a new cuticle beneath. In this state it frequently resembles a large vesicle, but the ap- pearance is deceptive. If the dead cuticle be removed by a probe, not a particle of fluid will be found under it. The tubercle may remain in this state with little change, except that it slightly en- larges, and that successive layers of cuticle desquamate from the surface. But it often happens that it goes on to ulceration. In such cases the ulcer always commences at a central point, which is slightly depressed, and may be distinctly seen on the first removal of the cuticle, and which appears to be the orifice of the sebaceous duct. As the ulcer proceeds it usually destroys the centre of the tubercle only, and leaves an indurated and elevated portion, by which it is encircled and separated from the sound skin. In the progress of the ulcer this tubercular thickening continues to precede it, so^that there is always a margin of red induration, more or less marked, as the powers of the system are greater or less; frequently of considerable breadth in those who arc strong and vi- gorous, but in the feeble often so slight as to be scarcely distinguishable; yet in all cases leaving, as it subsides, the peculiar brown stain, which is the chief characteristic of the tubercle. It is from this stain that the tubercle has received the appellation of the copper blotch. The hue varies with the age and the progress of the eruption. In the earliest stages it differs in nothing from that of common inflammation, and is cffaceable, or nearly so, on pressure. But in a short time a yellow or copper tinge is blended with the florid red, and gives it a peculiar brightness, the cause of which is made evident by passing the finger over the spot The vessels are thus emptied for the moment, and the florid ar- terial colour disappears, but the yellow or copper stain remains unchanged, and is shown to depend on something which has been effused on the surface, and which cannot be removed by pressure. While the tubercle is stationary the colour becomes deeper, and more yellow, but retains much of its brightness; but as the disease is subdued, and as the tubercular thickening subsides under treatment, the copper tinge gradually fades