SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 281 point, it passed over the projection; but unfortunately the blood had coagulated in the bladder, which filled up the holes in the catheter, so that I was obliged to withdraw it, and clear it repeatedly. This I prac- tised several days; but suspecting that the coagulum must in the end kill, I proposed cutting him as if for the stone ; but he died before it could be conveniently done, and the dissection, after death, explained the case to be what I have now described. In some of those cases where this part of the gland swells into the bladder in form of a tumour, the catheter has been known not to bring off the water at times when it appeared to have passed; and upon the death of the patient, when the parts have been examined, it was ima- gined that the catheter, in the living body, had made its way into the tumour so as to have been buried in it at those times*. From the knowledge of the above-mentioned facts, whenever I find the urine does not flow immediately upon introducing the catheter into the bladder, I have pushed it on and depressed the handle, so as to reach the fundus of the bladder with the end of the catheter, and have always succeeded. For the more ready introduction of the instrument, a catheter made flexible at the point only for about an inch is perhaps best, as it is more under the command of the hand than when wholly flexible. If the bougie be used, it should be first warmed, and then very much bent at the point, and allowed to cool in this position, and passed quickly with the concave side upwards, before it loses the bend in its passage. But the bougie does not answer so well as the catheter, be- cause, upon withdrawing the bougie the sides of the gland soon close again. I have known where the water has passed by the side of the bougie with more freedom than when it was pulled out, because the bougie gave a straightness to this part of the canal, which it had not when the bougie was withdrawn. The following case is a strong in- stance of the inconveniences arising from such a disease of the prostate gland. A gentleman was attacked with a suppression of urine; a catheter could not be passed; but a bougie relieved him. He continued well for five years; but the same complaint returning, the bougie could not be passed, and the disease was supposed to be a stricture. A catheter however passed, although with a good deal of difficulty, and the bougie, though often tried, could not be passed, excepting once, just after using the catheter. I was sent for, and tried the bougie with as little success, and was obliged to have recourse to the catheter. I passed it with * Vide Plate XV.