OF THE TEETH. 79 CHAPTER II. OF THE DISEASES OF THE ALVEOLAR PROCESSES, AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF THEM. Having thus far treated of the diseases of the teeth themselves, and those of the sockets and gums, which either arise from them or are similar to such as arise from them, I come now to consider the diseases which take place primarily in the sockets, when the teeth are perfectly sound. These appear to he two ; and yet I am not sure but that they are both fundamentally the same, proceeding together from the same cause, or one depending on the other. The first effect which takes place is a wasting of the alveolar pro- cesses, which are in many people gradually absorbed and taken into the system. This wasting begins first at the edge of the socket, and gra- dually goes on to the root or bottom. The gum, which is supported by the alveolar process, loses its con- nexion, and recedes from the body of the tooth, in proportion as the socket is lost; in consequence of which, first the neck, and then more or less of the fang itself, becomes exposed. The tooth of course be- comes extremely loose, and at last drops out. The other effect is a filling up of the socket at the bottom, whereby the tooth is gradually pushed out. As this disease seldom happens without being attended by the other, it is most probable that they gene- rally both arise from the same cause. The second in these cases may be an effect of the first. Both combine to hasten the loss of the tooth ; but it sometimes happens that they act separately; for I have seen cases where the gum was leaving the teeth, and yet the tooth was not in the least protruded: on the other hand, I have seen cases where the tooth was protruding, and yet the gum kept its breadth; but where this is not the case, and the gums give way, the gums generally become extremely diseased; and as they are separated from both the teeth and the alveolar process, there is a very considerable discharge of matter from those detached surfaces. Though the wasting of the alveoli at their mouths, and the filling up at their bottoms, are to be considered as diseases, when they happen early in life, yet it would appear to be only on account of a natural effect taking place too soon; for the same thing is very common in old age* : and also, as this process of filling up the bottom, and wasting of * Natural History of the Teeth, i>. 4.