274 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. thrown into a spasmodic affection if the urine is too long confined in the bladder; while at the same time a certain fulness of the bladder, or a small degree of retention of the urine, will make the bladder contract w ith more force, and the urethra will for the same reason relax more freely ; therefore in cases where there is a tendency to strangury there is seldom any harm in waiting a little after the inclination comes on. I may be allowed here to caution surgeons who have not had oppor- tunities of seeing many of these cases, when they meet with permanent strictures which are becoming troublesome, attended with frequency in making w'ater, and a difficulty in passing it often threatening strangury, not to advise, or rather not to allow, their patients to take long journeys either on horseback or in carriages, more especially in the winter. I have known many patients labouring under such complaints taken ill in the middle of a journey, and obliged to stop for days upon the road, and who have continued in misery the remainder of the journey; and after having arrived at the place of their destination, have been laid up for months, and have suffered from most of the before-mentioned com- plaints. §. 2. Of the Cure of the Spasmodic Affection of the Urethra. It may not be improper to premise, that in diseases of the actions only of the urethra and bladder, whether spasmodic and proceeding from too great irritability, or paralytic (although two opposite diseases,) irrita- tions on other parts have often wonderful effects, equally diminishing the action in the one and increasing it in the other. The proof of this will appear when we shall treat of the irritable and paralytic urethra and bladder : for in either part, and in either case, we find blisters ap- plied to the lower part of the small of the back or the perinaeum, as also many other applications to this part, often produce great effects*. As spasm simply is not an alteration of structure, but is only a dis- eased or preternatural action arising from some irritation, it may be made to cease instantaneously. In whatever part of the urethra the spasm is, if time will allow, it is proper to try internal medicines, and also external applications, to remove it. The internal medicines that * That the parts concerned in the expulsion of the urine’(as the bladder and urethra) sympathize strongly with the skin of the perinaeum I believe is commonly supposed, from applications being often made to that part in cases of stoppages of urine. A gentleman who had no complaint in these parts had a small fistula at the side of the rectum, for which he often had occasion to sit over the steam of warm water and vinegar; and this application to the perinaeum never failed of making him void his urine.