THE NATURAL HISTORY 6 least the ligament is there much more vascular than at any other part. Of the Motion in the Joint of the Lower Jaw. The lower jaw, from the manner of its articulation, is susceptible of a great many motions. The whole jaw may be brought horizontally forwards, by the condyles sliding from the cavity towards the eminences on each side. This motion is performed chiefly when the teeth of the lower jaw are brought directly under those of the upper, in order to bite or hold anything very fast between them. Or, the condyles only may be brought forwards, while the rest of the jaw is tilted backwards, as is the case when the mouth is open; for on that occasion the angle of the jaw is tilted backwards, and the chin moves downwards, and a little backwards also. In this last motion the condyle turns its face a little forwards; and the centre of motion lies a little below the condyle, in the line between it and the angle of the jaw. By such an advancement of the condyles forwards, together with the rotation mentioned, the aperture of the mouth may be consi- derably enlarged; a circumstance necessary on many obvious occasions. The condyles may also slide alternately backwards and forwards, from the cavity to the eminence, and vice versd; so that while one con- dyle advances, the other moves backwards, turning the body of the jaw from side to side, and thus grinding between the teeth the morsel sepa- rated from the larger mass by the motion first described. In this case the centre of motion lies exactly in the middle between the two con- dyles. And it is to be observed, that in these slidings of the condyles forwards and backwards, the moveable cartilages do not accompany the condyles in the whole extent of their motion, but only so far as to adapt their surfaces to the different inequalities of the temporal bone: for as these cartilages are hollow on their lower surfaces where they receive the condyle, and on their opposite upper surfaces are convex where they lie in the cavity, but anteriorly, at the root of the eminence, are a little hollowed, if they accompanied the condyles through the whole extent of their motion, the eminences would be applied to the emi- nences, the cavities would not be filled up, and the whole articulation would be rendered very insecure. This account of the motion of the lower jaw and its cartilages clearly demonstrates the principal use of these cartilages, namely, the security of the articulation, the surfaces of the cartilage accommodating them- selves to the different inequalities, in the various and free motions of this joint. This cartilage is also very serviceable for preventing the