SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 245 the portcrayon with the caustic introduced in its place ; or, if the plug and portcrayon are on the same instrument, then it is only withdraw- ing the plug, and introducing the portcrayon with the caustic. This plug, besides giving a smooth rounded edge to the cannula, answers another good purpose, by preventing the cannula from being filled with the mucus of the urethra as it passes along, which mucus would be collected in the end of it, dissolve the caustic too soon, and hinder its application to the stricture*. If the stricture be in the bend of the urethra the cannula may be bent at the end also; but it becomes more difficult to introduce a piece of caustic through such a cannula, for the plug and portcrayon must also be bent at the end, which cannot be made to pass through the straight part of the cannula; but this I have in some measure obviated by having the cannula made flexible, except at the end where it is to take the curve t. After the bougie can be made to pass, the case is to be treated as a common stricture, either by dilating it slowly, or by quickly increasing the size of the bougie, and thus continuing the ulceration. There are sometimes more strictures than one ; but it seldom hap- pens that they are all equally strong. One only becomes the object of our attention. The smaller ones may, however, be sufficient to hinder the passing the cannula to that which is to be destroyed by the caustic. When that is the case, those small strictures are to be dilated with bougies, as in common, till they are sufficiently large to allow the can- nula to pass Ja. * Vide Plate XI. fig. 1. f Vide Plate XI. fig. 2 and 3. + Added : “ A. B., a soldier in the 16th regiment of light dragoons, had a stricture twenty years ago, and was in St. Thomas’s Hospital: bougies were passed, and he got pretty well. About eight years afterwards the stricture began to recur, and has been growing worse ever since, and for these two years past he has not been able to do his duty, the water only coming from him in drops. In this state he applied to me. Finding the smallest bougie could not be made to pass, 1 desired that a full-sized one might be passed down to the stricture, and its end pressed against it, for as long a time and as often as he could bear with tolerable ease, and to continue this practice for some weeks. This be did without any advantage. Being now afraid of a total stoppage of urine without the common means of relief, and there being a sensation in the perinaum threatening inflammation, I resolved to use the caustic. I applied it three times in the whole, at two days’ interval; and after the last application, he told me he had made water much more freely and less frequently than before. I introduced a bougie of the second or third size above the smallest, and it passed the stricture with great ease into the bladder. 1 then ordered him to pass the bougie, and increase it gradually till he could use the largest, which he did; and he is now perfectly well ."—Home. a [Since the time when Mr. Hunter wrote, the use of caustic in the cure of stricture has been greatly extended, chiefly through the labours of Sir E. Home, whose valuable