318 OF CHANCRE. I have seen a chancre on the prolabiutn, as broad as a sixpence, caught the person did not know how*. The penis, and particularly the pre- puce, being the parts most commonly affected by this form of the dis- ease, are so constructed as to suffer much from it, especially when they are very susceptible of such irritation, for the construction alone pro- duces many inconveniences, besides considerable pain, while under the disease, and in general retards the cure. The chancre is not so frequent an effect of the poison as the gonor- rhoea, and I think very good reasons may be assigned for it, although there are more modes than one of catching it, as I just now mentioned ; but the parts in two of them, to wit, the wound and the sore, are seldom in the way of being infected ; therefore when it is caught, it is commonly by the same mode of application with that of the gonorrhoea; but as the cuticle cannot be affected by this poison, this covering acting as a guard to the cutis, it is often prevented from coming in contact with it; and indeed it is almost surprising that the cutis should be affected by it where it has such a covering, excepting about the glans, the inside of the prepuce, or other parts of the body, where this covering is thin. The proportion which the cases of gonorrhoea bear to those of chancre is as four or five to one. When it is caught in men it is generally upon the fraenum, glans penis, prepuce, or upon the common skin of the body of the penis, and sometimes on the fore part of the scrotum ; but I think most frequently on the fraenum, and in the angle between the penis and glans. Its af- fecting these parts arises from the manner in which it is caught, and not from any specific tendency in these parts to catch it more than others; and its affecting the fraenum, &c. more frequently than the other parts of the penis arises from the external form of this part, which is irregular, and allows the venereal matter to lie undisturbed in the chinks, by which means it has time to irritate and inflame the parts, and to produce the suppurative and ulcerative inflammation in them. But as this matter is easily rubbed off from prominent parts by every thing that touches them, it is a reason why such parts in general so often escape this disease. The distance of time between its application and its effects upon the part is uncertain ; but, upon the whole, it is rather longer in appearing than the gonorrhoea; however, this depends in some measure on the nature of the parts affected. If it be the fraenum, or the termination of the prepuce into the glans, that is affected, the disease will in general * That this sore was a chancre I made no doubt, for besides its diseased appearance, he had a bubo forming in one of the glands under the lower jaw, on the same side. It is most probable that his own fingers were the conveyers.