41 OF THE HUMAN TEETH. the mouth of the cavity into two openings *; and from the edges of these two openings the twro fangs grow f. We often find that a distinct ossification begins in the middle of the ge- neral cavity upon the root of the pulp, and two processes coming from the opposite edges of the bony shell join it; which answers the same purpose. When there are three fangs, we see three processes coming from so many points of the brim of the cavity, which meet in the centre and divide the whole into three openings 1; and from these are formed the three fangs §. We often find the fangs forked at their points, especially in the bicuspides. In this case the sides of the fang as it grows come close together in the middle, making a longitudinal groove on the outside; and this union of the opposite sides divides the mouth of the growing fang into two orifices, from which the two points are formed. By the observations which I have made in unravelling the texture of the teeth when softened by an acid, and from observing the disposition of the red parts in the tooth of growing animals interruptedly fed with madder, I find that the bony part of a tooth is formed of lamellae placed one within another. The outer lamella is the first formed and is the shortest; the more internal lamellae lengthen gradually towards the fang, by which means, in proportion as the tooth grows longer, its ca- vity grows smaller, and its sides grow' thicker ||. How the earthy and animal substance of the tooth is deposited on the surface of the pulp is not perhaps to be explained". Of the Formation of the Enamel. In speaking of the enamel w'e postponed treating of its formation till it could be more clearly understood ; and now we shall previously describe some parts which we apprehend to be subservient to its for- mation, much in the same manner as the pulp is to the body of the tooth. From its situation and from the manner in which the teeth grow, one would imagine that the enamel is first formed; but the bony part begins first, and very soon after the enamel is formed upon it. There is an- * PI. VIII. f. 13, B. + pi. vill. f. 13, C, D. + PI. VIII. f. 13, F, G. § PI. VIII. f. 13, H, I, K. || PI. VIII. f. 7, 8. ’ Phis is explained in the note to the preceding section.