OF THE DISEASES 108 Of the Cure. The cure of diseases arising from dentition, from their nature, can only be temporary und local, even when it is directed to the real seat of the disease; and certainly every method of cure which is not so directed must prove ineffectual, as it can only operate by destroying the effect. Opiates, indeed, will in some degree take off the irritation, by destroying the sensibility of the part; but surely it would be better at once to remove the cause than to be attempting from time to time to remove or palliate the effect. When the sympathy is partial, and not in a vital part, it would be better to allow it to continue than cure it, because it may by such means become universal; for instance, if it is a diarrhoea, the best way is to allow it to go on, or at least only cor- rect it if too violent, which is often the case. I have seen cases where the stomach and intestines have sympathized so much as almost to threaten death. The small quantity of nourishment that the stomach could admit of was hurried off by the intestines. Of cutting the Gums. As far as my experience has taught me, to cut the gum down to the teeth appears to be the only method of cure. It acts either by taking off the tension upon the gum, arising from the growth of the tooth, or by preventing the ulceration which must otherwise take place. It often happens, particularly when the operation is performed early in the disease, that the gum will reunite over the teeth; in which case the same symptoms will be produced, and they must be removed by the same method. I have performed the operation above ten times upon the same teeth, where the disease had recurred so often, and every time with the abso- lute removal of the symptoms. It has been asserted that to cut the gum once will be sufficient, not only to remove the present but to prevent any future bad symptoms from the same cause. This is contrary to experience and the known laws of the animal ceconomy; for frequently the gum, from its thick- ness over the tooth, or other causes, must necessarily heal up again; and the relapse is as unavoidable as the original disease. A vulgar prejudice prevails against this practice, from an objection that if the gum is lanced so early as to admit of a reunion, the cica- trized part will be harder than the original gum, and therefore the teeth