OK THE LUES VENEREA. 449 often an hindrance to its being given in sufficient quantities for the cure of the disease. I mentioned, when treating of the effects of mercury, that the sensi- ble increase of the secretions produced by it were in the following order : first of saliva, then sweat, then urine, and often of the mucus of the in- testines, producing purging; I also observed, that when any of those secretions became too violent, the hand of the surgeon was tied up till they were moderated. Attempts have been made to lessen those effects in two ways, either by the destruction of its power on the body in ge- neral, or by its removal, but neither of these means has succeeded. It never has once been thought necessary to attempt to lessen its powers on the organs of secretion, so as still to retain the same quantity in the constitution, or even to throw in more, which, if it could be effected, would be sometimes of great service; but as we are not yet acquainted with powers sufficient for these purposes, we are obliged to observe great caution in our mode of giving the medicine. I have endeavoured to show that this medicine need not be given with a view to procure those evacuations, and that it may be given in any quantity without increasing either of those secretions in any evident degree; however, after every precaution we may still be deceived, and the medicine will every now and then produce greater effects than were intended. It is very necessary therefore to seek for a preventive of the effects of mercury, when likely to be too violent; or to remedy those effects when they have already taken place. 'file common practice, when mercury produced violent effects upon the intestines, was to counteract these effects ; but this was not done with a view to retain the mercury in the constitution, but to relieve the bowels that were suffering by the action of the medicine; whereas the proper practice would be to stop its progress here, as in every other outlet, that more mercury may be retained in the constitution. Although these increased secretions arise from the constitution’s being loaded with mercury, yet there is no danger in stopping them, for they do not arise from an universal disposition becoming a local or critical one ; and therefore if such an action be checked or stopped in one place, it must necessarily fall upon some other; but it is from the part being more susceptible of this irritation than any other, and the quantity now' in the constitution being equal to the susceptibility of the part; and there- fore, though its effects are stopped here, it does not break out anywhere else, every other part being capable of supporting this quantity, and of remaining unaffected till more is thrown in. When the mercury attacked the salivary glands, it increased that se- cretion so much as in some cases to oblige practitioners to administer VOL. II. 2 o