224 OF GONORRHOEA. the irritation may be expected to run along the urethra and produce symptoms in the bladder, for in such cases irritating applications do not answer, but, on the contrary, often produce worse disorders than those they were meant to cure. Bougies may be classed with the irritating applications, and in many cases they act very violently as such. They appear to be more effica- cious than injections, but they require longer time to produce their full effect. A simple, or unmedicated bougie, is, in general, sufficient for the cure of a gleet, and requires a month or six weeks’ application be- fore the cure can be depended upon. If bougies are made to stimulate otherwise than as extraneous bodies, then a shorter time will generally be sufficient. Probably the best mode of medicating them would be by mixing a little turpentine, or a little camphor with the composition, so as to act specifically on the parts; but great care should be taken not to irritate too much. The size of the bougie should be smaller than the common, and need only be five or six inches long, as it seldom happens that a greater ex- tent of the urethra has the disposition to gleet; but no harm will arise from passing a bougie of the common length through the whole extent of the urethra. In the cure of a gleet, attempted by means of the bougie, we have no certain rules to direct us when it should be left off, as the discharge will often continue as long as the bougie is used. If, upon leaving off the bougie, after the use of it for several weeks, the running ceases, then we may hope there is a cure performed; but if it should not be in the least diminished, it is more than probable that bougies will not ef- fect a cure, and therefore it is hardly necessary to have recourse to them again. Yet, if the gleet is in part diminished, it will be right to begin again, and probably it may be proper to increase the irritating quality of the bougie, in order to suit it to the diminished irritability of the parts. The fourth mode of cure is by sympathy, or by producing an irrita- tion in another part of the body, which shall destroy the mode of action in the urethra. I knew a case of obstinate gleet attended with very disagreeable sen- sations in the urethra, especially at the time of making water, removed entirely by two chancres appearing upon the glans. The patient had taken all the medicines commonly recommended, and had applied the bougie without effect. A gentleman informed me that he had cured two persons of gleets by applying a blister to the under side of the urethra; and I have known