OF T1IE TEETH. 89 formed later than the bicuspides; in consequence of which the whole space is taken up before they make their appearance: in such cases they are obliged to shoot forwards or outwards over the second incisor. However, it frequently happens to the incisores, but seldom to such a degree. This arises often from the temporary cuspidatus of one or both sides standing firm. I have seen the irregularities so much as to appear like a double row. The bicuspides generally have sufficient room to grow, because even more space than what they can occupy is kept for them by the tempo- rary grinders*. This, however, is not universally the case; for I have seen where the bicuspides were obliged to grow out of the circle, very probably from their being later in growing than common. That it is from want of room in the jaw, and not from any effect that the first set produces upon them, is evident; first, because in all cases of irregularity we find that there is really not room in the jaw to allow of placing all the teeth properly in the circle; so that some are necessa- rily on the outside of the circle, others within it, while others are turned with their edges obliquely, as it were, warped; and secondly, because the bicuspides are not out of the circle, although they are as much influenced by the first set as any of the others. As they are not influenced by the first set, it cannot be of any sendee to draw the first possessor, for that gives way in the same proportion as the other advances. As the succeeding tooth, however, is broader, it often interferes with a shedding tooth next to it, the fang of which not being influenced by the growth of its own succeeding tooth, it does not decay in proportion as the other advances, and therefore the drawing of the adjoining shedding tooth is often of servicef. In cases of considerable irregularity for want of room, a principal object is to remove those which are most out of their place, and thereby procure room for the others which are to be brought into the circle. To extract an irregular tooth would answer but little purpose if no alteration could be made in the situation of the rest; but we find that the very principle upon which teeth are made to grow irregularly is capable, if properly directed, of bringing them even again. This prin- ciple is the power which many parts (especially bones) have of moving out of the way of mechanical pressure. The irregularity of the teeth is at first owing to mechanical pressure; for one tooth getting the start of another, and fixing firmly in its place, becomes a resistance to the young, loose, forming tooth, and gives it an oblique direction. The same principle takes place in a completely formed tooth whenever a pressure is made upon it. Probably a tooth * Natural History, p. 36. t Ibid., p. 47.