369 OF BUBO. has less chance of being contaminated. The powers of mercury may often be increased from the manner in which it is applied. In the cure of buboes, it should always be made to pass into the constitution by the same way through which the habit received tbe poison; and therefore, to effect this it must be applied to tbe mouths of those lymphatics which pass through the diseased part, and which will always be placed on a surface beyond the disease. But the situation of many buboes is such as not to have much surface beyond them, and thereby not to allow of a sufficient quantity of mer- cury being taken in in this way; as, for instance, those buboes on the body of the penis arising from chancres on the glans or prepuce. These two surfaces are not sufficient to take in the necessary quan- tity to cure those buboes in its passage through them ; therefore when- ever the first symptoms of a bubo appear, its situation is well to be con- sidered, with a view to determine if there be a sufficient surface to effect a cure, without our having recourse to other means. It is first to be observed, whether the absorbent vessels on the body of the penis are affected, or the glands in the groin. If the disease be in the groin, it must be observed in which of the three situations of the bubo, before taken notice of, it is ; whether on the upper part of the thigh and groin, on the lower part of the belly before Poupart’s ligament, or near to the pubes. If they are on the body of the penis, this shows that the ab- sorbents leading directly from the surface of absorption are themselves diseased. If in the groin, and on the upper part of the thigh, or per- haps a little lower down than what is commonly called the groin, then we may suppose it is in the glands common to the penis and thigh. If high up, or on the lower part of the belly, before Poupart’s ligament, then it is to be supposed that those absorbents that arise from about the groin, lower part of the belly, and pubes, pass through the bubo; and if far forwards, then it is most probable that only the absorbents of the penis and skin about the pubes pass that way. The knowledge of these situations is very necessary for the application of mercury for the cure by resolution, and for the cure after suppuration has taken place. The propriety of this practice must appear at once when we consider that the medicine cannot pass to the common circulation without going through the diseased parts ; and it must promote the cure in its passage through them; while at the same time it prevents the matter which has already passed, and is still continuing to pass, into the constitution from acting there, so that the bubo is cured and the constitution pre- served. But this practice alone is not always sufficient; there are many cases in which mercury by itself cannot cure. Mercury can only cure tbe vol. ii. 2 a