OF GONORRHCEA. 192 suppuration is late in taking place. A remarkable instance of this happened in a gentleman who had the infection twice*. 'Hie first time he assured me that it was six weeks between the time it was possible for him to have contracted the disease, and its appearance; and that for a considerable part of that time he had often been indis- posed with slight rigors, attended with a little fever and restlessness, for which he could assign no cause, nor was he relieved by the usual remedies prescribed in such cases. A violent gonorrhoea came on, and these symptoms went off, which appeared to me to explain the case. The second time it was a month from the time of infection before the gonorrhoea appeared, and for some weeks of that time he was subject to a similar indisposition, which went off as before when the running came on. Here it would appear that we have something of a suppurative fever, which perhaps often happens in this disease; but the inflamma- tion being small, and the fever therefore inconsiderable, it is commonly little noticed by the patient. The above gentleman, not suspecting any such complaint in the first attack, had connexion with his wife as usual, and was afraid, when the disease appeared, that he might have given it to her; but she never complained, which is a strong circumstance in confirmation of the principle laid down above, that it cannot be com- municated but by matter. These constitutional sympathies from local specific diseases are the same, from whatever cause they proceed: they are the sympathetic effects of irritation or of violence. And it is probable that all remote sympathies are, at least in this respect, similar; for if they were similar to their cause, it is most probable that they would produce in the con- stitution the same kind of disease that gave rise to them. CHAPTER IV. OF THE CURE OF THE GONORRHCEA. From the idea which I have endeavoured to give of the venereal disease in general, namely, that, in whatever form it appears, it always arises from the same cause, it might be supposed that, since wc have a spe- * The case is mentioned before, p. 165.