OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 5 * PI. 1. f. 3. d. t PI. I. f. 3. c, d. PI. I. f. 3. c. its outer extremity, as the outer corresponding end of the condyle de- scribes a larger circle in its motion than the inner*. The surface of the cavity and eminence is covered with one continued smooth cartila- ginous crust, which is somewhat ligamentous, for by putrefaction it peels off, like a membrane, with the common periosteum. Both the cavity and eminence serve for the motion of the condyle of the lower jaw. The surface of the cavity is directed downward; that of the eminence downward and backward, in such a manner that a transverse section of both would represent the italic letter Sf- Though the emi- nence may, on a first view of it, appear to project considerably below the cavity, yet a line drawn from the bottom of the cavity to the most depending part of the eminence is almost horizontal, and therefore nearly parallel with the line made by the grinding surfaces of the teeth in the upper jaw : and when we consider the articulation further, we shall find that these two lines are so nearly parallel that the condyle moves almost directly forwards in passing from the cavity to the emi- nence ; and the parallelism of the motion is also preserved by the shape of an intermediate cartilage. In this joint there is a moveable cartilage, which, though common to both condyle and cavity, ought to be considered rather as an appendage of the former than of the latter, being more closely connected with it, so as to accompany it in its motion along the common surface of both the cavity and eminence. This cartilage is nearly of the same dimen- sions with the condyle, which it covers, and is hollowed out on its inferior surface, to receive the condyle. On its upper surface it is more unequal, being moulded to the cavity and eminence of the articulating surface of the temporal bone, though it is considerably less, and is therefore capable of being moved with the condyle, from one part of that surface to another!. Its texture is ligamento-cartilagineous. This moveable cartilage is connected with both the condyle of the jaw' and the articu- lating surface of the temporal bone, by distinct ligaments, arising from its edges all round. That by which it is attached to the temporal bone is the most free and loose ; though both ligaments will allow an easy motion of the cartilage on the respective surfaces of the condyle and temporal bone. These attachments of the cartilage are strength- ened, and the whole articulation secured, by an external ligament, which is common to both, and which is fixed to the temporal bone, and to the neck of the condyle. On the inner surface of the ligament which attaches the cartilage to the temporal bone, and backwards, in the cavity, is placed what is commonly called the gland of the joint; at