THE NATURAL HISTORY 12 upon its outer part, viz. that from the mastoid process, and tendinous on the inside from the ridge. From its origin it passes forwards, down- wards, and a little inwards, much in the direction of the posterior edge of the mammillary process, and forms a round tendon, first in its centre and upper surface. This tendon passes on in the same direction ; and when got near the os hyoides, commonly perforates the anterior end of the stylo-hyoideus muscle. From the lower edge of this tendon some fibres seem to go off, which degenerate into a kind of fascia, which binds it to the os hyoides; while some go across the lower part of the mylo-hyoideus, and joining their fellows on the opposite side, bind the os hyoides by a kind of belt. At this part the tendon becomes a little broader, makes a turn upwards, inwards, and forwards, and giving origin to the anterior belly, passes on, in the same direction, to the lower part of the chin, where it is inserted, tendinous and fleshy, into a slight depression on the under and a little on the posterior part of the lower jaw, almost contiguous to its fellow. Besides the attachment of the middle tendon to the os hyoides, there is a ligamentous binding, which serves in some measure as a pulley. This is more marked in some subjects than in others ; and this depends on the strength of the tendinous expansion which binds the tendon of the digastricus to the os hyoides. When we say that these parts are attached to the os hyoides, we do not mean that they can be traced quite into it, like some other tendons in the body; but the os hyoides seems to be the most fixed point of attachment. Very often we find two anterior bellies to each muscle : the uncommon one, which is the smallest, does not pass to the chin, but joins with a similar portion of the other side, in a middle tendon, which is often fixed to the os hyoides. At other times we find such a portion ou one side only, in which case it is commonly fixed to the middle tendon of the mylo-hyoideus. The use of these muscles with regard to the lower jaw is principally to depress it; but according as one acts a little more forcibly than the other, it thereby gives the jaw a small rotation, and becomes in that respect a kind of antagonist to the pterygoidyus externus. Besides depressing the lower jaw, when we examine the dead body, they would appear to raise the larynx. But although they have this effect, a proper attention to what happens in the living body will probably show that their principal action is to depress the lower jaw, and that they are the muscles commonly employed for this purpose. Let a finger be placed on the upper part of the sterno-mastoideus muscle, just behind the posterior edge of the mastoid process, about its middle, touching that edge a little with the finger ; then depress the lower jaw; and