457 OF THE LUES VENEREA. excrescent sores in the right armpit were entirely healed, and become even with the skin, and covered with a natural skin, although somewhat discoloured ; the sores in the left armpit, which were poulticed with sar- saparilla, were rather worse than when the poultice was first applied, as indeed were all the sores, except those in the right armpit. I then or- dered the poultice of guaiacum to he applied to the left armpit, which was done, and the sores there also got well in a fortnight. I was now perfectly convinced that the gum guaiacum had cured these eruptions locally. I next wished to see what effect the gum guaiacum would have upon the remaining sores when given internally, that is, those about the anus, scrotum, and on the skin in general. The patient began with half a drachm three times every day, which purged him; but this was prevented by joining it with opium. In about four weeks all the eruptions were cured, and he was allowed to stay in the hospital some time longer, to see if he would continue well; but about a fortnight after he began to break out anew, and in a very short time was almost as bad as ever. I began a second time the gum guaiacum internally, but it had lost all its powers, or rather the constitution was no longer affected by it. He was put under a course of mercury, and cured8. CHAPTER IV. OF THE EFFECTS REMAINING AFTER THE DISEASE IS CURED, AND OF THE DISEASES SOMETIMES PRODUCED BY THE CURE. In treating of the local effects of the venereal disease, the gonorrhoea, and chancre, as also the bubo, I observed, that after the virus was de- stroyed there remained in many cases some of the same symptoms, and * [For a detailed examination into the use of these and other remedies in the vene- real disease, the reader is referred to “ Observations on the effects of various articles of the Materia Medica in the cure of Lues Venerea,” by John Pearson, a work which con- tains the result of a long and extensive experience, chiefly devoted to the investigation of this particular subject, and is in every part replete with excellent practical remarks.]