SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONOHRHCEA. 255 the first is allowed to remain so much the more readily will the second pass. I am not yet certain but that it would be better to push on the hollow cannula at first, and keep it there for some days, at least till the inflammation is over, and the parts have adapted themselves to that body, which will make a bougie pass more easily afterwards. The bou- gies must be gradually increased in size, and continued till the wound is healed up. The first case of a new passage formed by a bougie which I ever saw was at the hospital of the third regiment of guards, about the year 1765. A young soldier had a stricture, for the cure of which he had bougies regularly passed for near half a year without any relief. The bougie had gone further than at first by two inches, and therefore seemed to have gained ground on the stricture. This seemed to justify the con- tinuance of the practice ; but it being suspected that there was some- thing more than was then understood, I was consulted, and without foreseeing what was really the case, I proposed that an opening should be made into the urethra where the obstruction was, and carried further back if necessary, in search of the sound urethra. This was accordingly done in the folio-wing manner: the grooved staff was first passed as far down as it could go, which was to the bottom of the new passage; the scrotum was pulled up upon the penis, when the end of the staff was prominent towards the skin a little way above the perinreum, and there an incision was made on the end of the staff about half an inch long; this disengaged the end of the staff, which was pushed out at the wound; then search was made for the other orifice which led to the bladder, on a supposition that that orifice was the stricture; but none being to be found, we tried to trace it by blowing with a blowpipe into the bottom and lower part of the wound; but no orifice could be observed. We then began to suspect that we were not in the urethra. To determine if we had been in the urethra, I began to dissect with care the parts at the bottom of the wound, and laid bare the musculi acceleratores. I then made an incision into the body of the urethra and came to the true canal, which was easily discovered. When this was done we passed a probe on to the bladder, then withdrew, turned, and passed it from this wound towards the glans penis, but found that it went not much more than two inches that way, and then stopped. This struck us with a new idea of the case, for we were now sure that the end of the staff had not been in the urethra, but in a new passage made in the spongy part of the urethra, for two inches beyond the stricture. We now passed a staff from the glans down the urethra, and another up from the last wound, to see at what distance the ends of the two instruments were, which woidd give us the length of the stricture. We found, by