334 OF CHANCRE. and it is suprising often how quickly they will heal after being touched, and probably once or twice may be sufficient. ยง.3. Of the Treatment of Phimosis in consequence of or attended with Chancre. From the history which I have given of the disease we must see that a phimosis may be of two kinds: one natural, with the disease super- added, the other brought on by disease. The first may be increased by the disease; but if otherwise, it is not so troublesome as the other. Such as arise from the disease, I have observed, depend upon the pecu- liarity of the constitution. In either case it is often not practicable to apply dressings to the chancres on the inside of the prepuce. A phimosis should be prevented, if possible ; therefore, upon the least signs of a thickening of the prepuce, which is known by its being re- tracted with difficulty and pain, the patient should be kept quiet; if in bed so much the better, as in a horizontal position the end of the penis will not be so depending, but may be kept up. If confinement in bed cannot be complied with, then the end of the penis should be kept up to the belly, if possible; but this can hardly be done when the per- son is obliged to walk about, for the extravasated fluids, descending and remaining in the prepuce, contribute often more to render the prepuce incapable of being drawn back than the inflammation itself. When the diseased phimosis completely takes place the same precau- tions may be followed; but as the sores cannot be dressed in the com- mon way, we must have recourse either to dressings in forms of injec- tions, or the operation for the phimosis. If we use injections only, they should be often repeated, as they are only temporary applications. The dressings, in form of injections, should be mercurial, either crude mercury rubbed down with a thick solution of gum arabic, which will assist in retaining some of the injection between the glans and prepuce ; or calomel with the same, and a proportion of opium. In the propor- tion of these no nicety is required ; but if a solution of corrosive sub- limate is made use of as an injection some attention is to be paid to its strength. About one grain of this to an ounce of water will be as much as the sensation of the part will allow the patient to bear, and if this reives too much pain it may be lowered by adding more water. After the parts are as well cleaned as possible with this injection, it will be necessary to introduce other mercurial applications of some kind, to remain there till the parts want cleaning again, which will be very Such as are mentioned before will answer this puqiose very well; soon.