SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 31*2 infant. This we do not find in any parts of the body which are es- sential to its ceconomy, excepting the parts are of no further use and might become hurtful in the body, as in the instance of the membrana pupillaris. But the testicles do not undergo this change as if in con- sequence of an original property stamped upon them, as is the case of the thymus gland, whenever the age of the person is such as to render them useless, but are liable to it at any age; and therefore the dis- position is in the testicles themselves, independent of any connexion with the animal ceconomy. An arm or leg may lose its action, and may waste in part, but never wholly. Testicles have been known to waste in cases of rupture, probably from the constant pressure of the intestine. Mr. Pott has given us cases of this kind. I have seen in the hydrocele the testicle almost wasted to nothing, probably from the compression of the water; but in all these the causes of wasting are obvious, and would probably produce similar effects in other parts of the body under the same circumstances ; but a testicle without any previous disease wastes wholly; or at other times it inflames, either spontaneously, or from sympathy with the ure- thra, becomes large, and then begins to subside, as in the resolution of common inflammation of the body ; but does not stop at the former size, but continues to decay till it wholly disappears. The following cases are instances of this. Case I. A gentleman about nine years ago had a gonorrhoea, with a bubo, which suppurated. A swelling of one of the testicles came on, for which he used the common methods of producing resolution, and seemingly with success. All the other symptoms being removed, he thought himself quite well; but some time after he found that the tes- ticle, which had been swelled, was become rather smaller than the other, which made him now pay attention to it: this decrease continued till it wasted entirely. For some years past there has been no appearance of a testicle. He is not in the least different in inclination or powers from what he was before. Case II: communicated by Mr. Nanfan. " A gentleman, aged about eighteen, who never had any venereal complaint, has had two different attacks of the same nature, one in each testicle. February 3, 1776, after skating a few hours, without having to his knowledge received any injury from it, he was seized with a violent pain and inflammation of the left testicle, which in a few days increased much in size. A sur- geon being sent for, followed the usual treatment in such cases of in- flammation. In about six weeks the inflammation and swelling gradu- allv subsided, some hardness only remaining. A mercurial plaster was now applied, which, after being worn for some time, was left off. The