OF TI1E TEETH. 81 slight salivation, so as to push the tooth a little way out of the bony socket; which having subsided by the plentiful bleeding, the tooth of course becomes fast. Or perhaps, by producing an inflammation of an- other kind, the first inflammation, or disposition to inflame, is destroyed; which evidently appeared in the case of the young lady above men- tioned. If the above practice is unsuccessful, and the tooth continues to pro- trude, it will either become very troublesome or a great deformity. A front tooth may not, indeed, be at first so troublesome as a grinder, be- cause these teeth frequently overhang, but it will be extremely disagree- able to the eye. If the cause cannot be removed, the effect must be the object of our attention. To file down the projecting part is the only thing that can be done; but care must be taken not to file into the cavity, otherwise pain, inflammation, and other bad consequences may probably ensue. This practice, however, will be very troublesome, because it will be difficult to file a loose tooth. At last the tooth will drop out, which will put an end to all further trouble. If the alveoli have really been destroyed in those cases of loose teeth which have become firm again, it would be difficult to ascertain whether they have a power of renewing themselves analogous to that power by which they first grow, or whether the fastening be effected by a clos- ing of the gum and process to the teeth. When the disease arises from the scurvy, the first attempt must be to cure that disease, and after- wards the above local treatment may be of service. Together with drawing blood from the gums, astringents have always been used to harden them. But when the disease does not arise from a constitutional cause, which may be removed, (such as the sea-scurvy or salivation,) but from a disposition in the parts themselves, I have seen little relief given by them. The tincture of myrrh, tincture of Peruvian bark, and sea-water are some of the applications which have been recommended. In such cases I have seen considerable benefit from the use of the tincture of bark and laudanum, in the proportion of two parts of the tincture of bark to one of the laudanum : and this to be used frequently, and at each time to be kept in the mouth during ten, fifteen, or twenty minutes.® * [The practice here recommended of filing a tooth which is descending in the alveolus, is, on more than one account, exceedingly injurious. The immediate cause of such a descent of the tooth is, as Hunter observes, a deposit of bone in the alveolus; and, as this deposit takes place in consequence of some irritation in the periosteum, everything should be avoided that could increase this irritation. Filing, however, would certainly VOL. II, G