OF THE LUES VENEREA. 41S the lips of the urethra, also a sensation in it in making water, so that a discharge was expected from it. The speck was now touched with lunar caustic, and afterwards dressed with calomel ointment. On Saturday morning the slough came off, and it was again touched, and another slough came off on the Monday following. The preceding night the glans had itched a good deal, and on Tuesday a white speck was observed where the puncture had been made; this speck, when examined, was found to be a pimple full of yellowish matter. This was now touched with the caustic, and dressed as the former. On the Wednesday the sore on the prepuce was yellow, and therefore was again touched with caustic. On the Friday both sloughs came off, and the sore on the prepuce looked red, and its basis not so hard; but on the Saturday it did not look quite so well, and was touched again, and when that went off it was allowed to heal, as also the other, which left a dent in the glans. This dent on the glans was filled up in some months, but for a consider- able time it had a bluish cast. Four months afterwards the chancre on the prepuce broke out again, and very stimulating applications were tried ; but these seemed not to agree with it, and nothing being applied, it healed up. This it did se- veral times afterwards, but always healed up without any application to it. That on the glans never did break out, and herein also it differed from the other. While the sores remained on the prepuce and glans a swelling took place in one of the glands of the right groin. I had for some time con- ceived an idea that the most effectual way to put back a bubo was to rub in mercury on that leg and thigh; that thus a current of mercury would pass through the inflamed gland. Here was a good opportunity of making the experiment. I had often succeeded in this w’ay, but now wanted to put it more critically to the test*. The sores upon the penis were healed before the reduction of the bubo was attempted. A few days after beginning the mercury in this method the gland subsided considerably. It was then left off, for the intention was not to cure it completely at present. The gland some time after began to swell again, and as much mercury was rubbed in as appeared to be sufficient for the entire reduction of the gland; but it was meant to do no more than to cure the gland locally, without giving enough to prevent the constitu- tion from being contaminated. About two months after the last attack of the bubo, a little sharp pricking pain was felt in one of the tonsils in swallowing anything, and * The practice in 17fi7 was to apply a mercurial plaster on the part, or to rub in mercurial ointment on the part, which could hardly act by any other power than sym- pathy.