OK GONORRHQIA. 219 been necessarily introduced twice a day to draw off the water. But of this more fully hereafter. Electricity has been found to be of service in some cases, and there- fore may be tried either in the first instance, or when other means have failed. ยง.2. Of a Gleet. Whatever method has been had recourse to in the cure of the venereal inflammation, whether injections have been used, or internal medicines, (mercurials, purgatives, or astringents,) it often happens that the forma- tion of pus shall continue, and prove more tedious and difficult of cure than the original disease. For, as I have already observed, the vene- real inflammation is of such a nature as to go off of itself, or to wear itself out; or, in other words, it is such an action of the living powers as can subsist only for a certain time. But this is not the case with a gleet, which seems to take its rise from a habit of action which the parts have contracted, and as they have no disposition to lay aside this action, it of course is continued; for we find in those gonorrhoeas which last long, and are tedious in their cure, that this habit is more rooted than in those which go off soon. This disease, however, has not always the disposition to continue, for it often appears to stop of itself, even after every method has been in- effectually used. It is most probable that this arises from some acci- dental changes in the constitution, not at all depending upon the nature of the disease itself. I have suspected that there was something scrofulous in some gleets. Wc find frequently that a derangement of the natural actions of a part will be the cause of that part falling into some new disease to which there may be a strong tendency in the constitution. We find that a cold falling on the eyes produces a scrofulous weakness in those parts, with a considerable discharge. There are often scrofulous swellings in the tonsils, from the same cause. This opinion of the nature of some gleets is strengthened by the me- thods of cure ; for wc find that the sea-bath cures more gleets than the common cold bath, or any other mode of bathing. 1 have never yet tried the internal use of those medicines which are generally given in the scro- fula; but I have found sea-water, diluted and used as an injection, cure some gleets, though it is not always effectual. A gleet is generally understood to arise from a weakness : this cer- tainly gives us no idea of the disease, and indeed there is none which