74 OF THE DISEASES to granulate, but have not the power of healing, on account of an ex- traneous body being kept there. The tooth in the present case acts as an extraneous body, and by the secretion of matter the abscess is pre- vented from healing. In the treatment of gum-boils, the practice wdll be the same, whether the abscess has arisen from a diseased tooth, or a disease in the socket. The teeth being under such circumstances in the animal machine that they cannot partake of all the benefits of a cure in the same man- ner as other parts do, on that account, when an abscess forms itself about the root of a tooth, the tooth, by losing its connexion with the other parts, loses every power of union, as it is not endowed with the power of granulating, and thereby it becomes an extraneous body, or at least acts here as an extraneous body, and one of the worst kind, such as it is not in the power of any operation of the machine to get rid of. This is not the case with any other part of the body, for when any other part becomes dead, the machine has the powrer of separating it from the living, called sloughing or exfoliation, and expelling it, whence a cure is effected; but in the case of gum-boils the only cure of them is the extraction of the tooth. As this is the last resource, everything is to be done to make the parts as easy under the disease as possible, so that this operation may he postponed. When the abscess has opened through the gum, I believe the best method that can be tried with a view to prevent future gatherings is to prevent the closing up of the abscess; and this may be done by en- larging the opening, and keeping it enlarged till the whole internal surface of the cavity of the abscess is skinned over, or till the opening in the gum loses the disposition to close up, which will in a great measure prevent any future formation of matter, or at least w'liatever is formed will find an easy outlet, which wall prevent these accumulations from talcing place ever after. The end of the fang will indeed be hereby exposed, hut under such circumstances it will not be in a worse situa- tion than when soaked in matter. One method of doing tins is to open the gum-boils by a crucial in- cision, the full width of the abscess, and fill it w'cll with lint, which should be dipped in lime-water, or a diluted solution of lunar caustic, made by dissolving one drachm of the caustic in two ounces of distilled water; and the wound should be dressed very frequently, as it is with difficulty that the dressing can be kept in. If this is not sufficient to keep the wound open, it may be touched with the lunar caustic, so as to produce a slough; and this may be repeated if it should be found necessary. One considerable disadvantage occurs in this practice, which is the