171 OF GONORRHOEA. malady becomes more complicated, and requires more attention in the method of cure. Sometimes such diseases are relieved by the gonor- rhoea, at other times increased. §. 6. Of the most common Symptoms, and the Order of their Appearance. Although the irritation must always begin first, yet it is not certain which of the symptoms, in consequence of that irritation, will first ap- pear, for any one may appear singly without the others, though this is rarely the case. The first symptom, when carefully attended to, is ge- nerally an itching at the orifice of the urethra, sometimes extending over the whole glans* ; a little fulness of the lips of the urethra : the effects of inflammation are next observable, and soon after a running appears ; the itching changes into pain, more particularly at the time of voiding the urine; there is often no pain till some time after the ap- pearance of the discharge, and other symptoms; and in many gonor- rhoeas there is hardly any pain at all, even when the discharge is very considerable; at other times the pain, or rather a great degree of sore- ness, will come on long before any discharge appears f. There is generally at this time a greater fulness in the penis, and more especially in the glans, although it is not near so full as when erected, being rather in a state of half-erection. Besides this fulness, the glans has a kind of transparency, especially near the beginning of the urethra, where the skin is distended, being smooth and red, resem- bling a ripe cherry, this is owing to the reticular membrane, at this time loaded with a quantity of extravasated serum, and the vessels filled with blood. Near the beginning of the urethra there is in many cases an evident excoriation, which is marked by the termination of the cu- ticle all around. The surface of the glans also is often in a half-exco- riated state, which gives it a degree of tenderness, and there oozes out from it a kind of matter, as has been before observed:];. The canal of the urethra becomes narrower, which is known by the stream of the urine being smaller than common. This proceeds from the fulness of * These symptoms are most carefully observed by those who are under apprehen- sions of having the disease, and therefore are attentive to every little sensation about those parts. f Addedand extend a little way down the canal. I have known these sensa- tions to be felt half way down the urethra.”—Home. t Added : “ but this is more evident in those whose glans penis is commonly covered by the prepuce, for when denuded the cuticle becomes thicker, mid is less easily irri- tated.”—Home.