OP CHANCRE. 34 g §• 2. Of Ulceration resembling Chancres. It often happens that after chancres are healed, and all the virus gone, the cicatrices ulcerate again, and break out in the form of chancres. skin of the penis, dissecting in its course the corpora cavernosa from the integuments, and creeping upwards between these parts, often as far as the os pubis. Under these circumstances, the bottom of the sore cannot be fully exposed ; the part which is within view is generally clean, and sometimes siowly healing, while the portion which is con- cealed is foul und yellow, and secretes large quantities of a thin brownish discharge. 1 his spreading edge is attended by the usual tumefaction, which may be felt externally as a hard ring encircling the body of the penis, marking the distance to which the sore has extended, and in the progress of the complaint approaching nearer and nearer to the root of the penis. As long as this thickened edge is to be felt, so long the sore is spreading. If the bottom of the sore cleans and tends to heal, the improvement may be known by the subsidence of this thickening, as immediately and as certainly as if the whole of the surface were exposed to view. Under common circumstances the phagedenic sore spreads by foul ulceration, and eats its way very slowly, and almost imperceptibly. But it is subject to occasional ac- cesses of sloughing, in which large portions of the prepuce, the glans, or the corpus spongiosum, mortify and separate. There are few cases of long standing in which such sloughing has not occurred; and in most instances a portion of the urethra has been destroyed by it, and an opening has been formed, at which the urine escapes, about an inch above the natural meatus. The suddenness of these attacks, and the irremediable destruction which they occasion, render it necessary that the treatment should always be conducted with a view to their occurrence. The discharge from the phagedenic sore is profuse and unhealthy; but it docs not seem, like the discharge of the common chancre, to affect the surfaces with which it comes into contact. It is common that the prepuce and the glans should be almost con- stantly bathed in it; yet it is very rarely or never that other sores arise on these parts in consequence. Again, the contiguous surfaces are not affected. The sore may be situated on the body of the penis, while the prepuce in contact with it shall remain free from ulceration. It is not uncommon that the phagedenic sore should be situated on one side of the meatus urims, and should destroy a considerable portion of the glans before it is arrested; yet the affection will not extend to the other side of the meatus, although the ulcerated surface is allowed to remain perpetually in contact with it. The phagedenic sore is attended with some, but not with acute inflammation. The pain, except during an attack of sloughing, is not very severe. The prepuce is usually red, sometimes purple, almost always loaded with serum, and tumid; but it is not ge- nerally indurated, or firm to the touch; nor is the colour of that bright scarlet which attends acute phimosis from common chancre. Yet there is more constitutional dis- turbance: the pulse is usually quick and excitable, the skin hot, the appetite indifferent, and the sleep restless and disturbed. It is rare that a suppurating bubo should arise from a phagedenic sore. A gland in the groin sometimes enlarges, but it is seldom very painful, and generally subsides spontaneously in less than a week. The secondary symptoms which follow the phagedenic sore are peculiarly severe and intractable. They commonly consist of rupia, sloughing of the throat, ulceration of the nose, severe and obstinate muscular pains, and afterwards inflammation of the peri-