332 OF CHANCRE. §.2. Of the Cure of Chancres.—Local Applications. ihe cure of u chancre is a different thing from its destruction, and consists in destroying its venereal disposition, which being effected, the parts heal of course as far as they are venereal. Chancres may be cured in two different ways, either by external ap- plications, or internal through the circulation, 'idle same medicine is necessary for both these purposes, that is mercury. I have shown that a gonorrhoea and a chancre have so far the same disposition as to form the same kind of matter, yet I have also observed that mercury has no more power in curing the gonorrhoea than any other medicine, and therefore it might be supposed that mercury would have no effect in the present complaint; but we find that in a chancre it is a specific, and will cure every one that is truly venereal: but as other dispositions take place so other assistance is often necessary, as will be taken notice of in the history of the cure. The action of this medicine must be the same in whatever way it is given, for its action must be upon the vessels of the part, in one way acting only externally, in the other internally*. For external local applications mercurial ointments are the common * This is well illustrated by the application of some medicines locally to parts whose actions are immediate and visible; and by throwing the same medicine into the con- stitution the same immediate and visible effect is produced: for instance, if ten grains of ipecacuanha is thrown into the stomach of a dog, it will in a short time make him vomit, from its local applications to that visens; and if a solution of five grains is thrown into a vein it will produce vomiting before we can conceive it to have got to the vessels of the stomach. The same effects are produced from an infusion of jalap thrown into the veins that are commonly produced when taken into the stomach and bowels. fore be destroyed by the caustic. This defect is not always evident at the time. The sore may cicatrize under Ihe caustic, yet the virus may not be extirpated, and the ge- neral system may be subsequently effected. Again, caustic seems to increase the dispo- sition to absorption, so that if the object is not attained by the first application it will not in general be achieved by its repetition. Hence it happens, in very many instances, that the use of caustic is followed immediately by a bubo, and at a more remote period by secondary symptoms; and the patient, who might have been cured in the first in- stance by a moderate course of mercury, is subsequently exposed to the necessity of passing through a protracted course, which is not only attended with much trouble and annoyance, but which cannot be employed without considerable risk to the general health. The treatment by caustic should therefore be reserved for those cases where, from peculiar circumstances, an immediate course of treatment must be avoided at all risks. When caustic is supposed to be successful the sores arc for the most part not chancres, but simple pustules or herpetic vesicles.]