486 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. I he most serious effects of transplanting a tooth happened to a young lady, and arc related, in the Medical Transactions, iii. 2.5, by the late Sir William Watson. The dentist, being alarmed at the first appearance, desired me to visit her upon his own account. The edge of the gum had just then begun to ulcerate. As I did not know well what was best to be done, I de- sired him to make a strong solution of corrosive sublimate, and let the mouth be often washed with it, and also to apply some lint, soaked in it, to the part; but as this did not stop its progress, she applied to Sir William Watson, to whose account of the case I must refer the reader, and from that account I must take my materials to reason upon. How- ever, I may remark, that the case appears to have been supposed at last to have been venereal, whatever might have been the first opinion, and for the two following reasons : first, from the mode of catching the dis- ease being possible; and, secondly, from its not giving way to medi- cines which are of no service in the venereal disease; and this opinion appears to have been confirmed by the disease giving way to mercury. But the case itself, abstracted from the mode of catching it, and even the mode of cure, does not perfectly agree with the common attending circumstances of the venereal; nor has that attention been paid to the necessary circumstances sufficient to determine it to be venereal. The progress of the ulceration in the mouth, which was the first sym- ptom, was by much too rapid for a venereal ulcer in common: for it must be considered, if venereal, simply as a chancre or local affection. Now let us trace the progress of the disease into the constitution. “ About this time,” viz. when the local disease was making such rapid progress, “ blotches appeared in her face, neck, and various parts of the body : several of these became ulcerated painful sores.” Now this date of the constitutional affection^ following the local is by much too soon to be venereal: we know if a lues venerea arises either from a gonorrhoea or chancre, it does not appear in common till about six weeks, often much later, but seldom sooner. I do not count much upon the circumstance of there being no swelling of the lymphatic glands of the neck, forming buboes, as that is not a constant symptom attending the venereal matter getting into the circulation, although it should be al- lowed to have some weight, especially where other circumstances do not perfectly agree. The appearances from the constitution, when they did take place, were much more violent and rapid in their progress than any venereal blotches I ever saw. We know in the lues venerea that they arc months before they arrive at the stage of scabs ; also the pain attend- ing those sores did not in the least correspond with the lues venerea. Venereal blotches hardly give any sensation, or at least very little; but after all, mercury cured this disease, whatever it was. Twenty-eight