317 OF CIIANCUE. whose nature is not to secrete, it then becomes more difficult, for another process must be set up, which is ulceration. This is not only the case in common irritations, but also in specific irritations from morbid poi- sons, as the venereal disease and smallpox. The variolous matter, as well as the venereal, produces ulcers on the skin; but when it affects secreting surfaces, a diseased secretion is the consequence; and this is different in different parts; on the tongue, inside of the mouth, uvula and tonsils, the coagulable lymph is thrown out in form of sloughs, somewhat similar to the putrid sore throat; but in the fauces, and all down the oesophagus, a thickish fluid, in appearance like matter, is se- creted. When the irritation is applied to a surface whose cuticle is thin, and where there is a secretion naturally, as the glans penis or inside of the prepuce, there it sometimes only irritates, so as to produce a diseased secretion, as was described; but this is not always the effect sf such irritation on such surfaces. They are often irritated to ulcer- ation, and produce a chancre. The poison has in general either no disposition, or not sufficient powers to blister or excoriate the common skin, for if it did, the sym- ptoms most probably would be at first nearly the same, if not exactly so, with a gonorrhoea; that is, a discharge of matter from a surface, without a cuticle, newly inflamed; for it is reasonable to suppose that the poison would produce on that excoriated surface a secretion of mat- ter, which would be at first a gonorrhoea, and which very probably would afterwards fall into the second mode of action or ulceration, and then become a chancre. There are three ways in which chancres are produced ; first, by the poison being inserted into a wound; secondly, by being applied to a nonsecreting surface; and thirdly, by being applied to a common sore. To whichever of these three different surfaces it is applied, the pus pro- duces its specific inflammation and ulceration, attended with a secretion of pus. The matter produced in consequence of those different modes of application is of the same nature with the matter applied, because the irritations are the same in both. The poison much more readily contaminates if it is applied to a fresh wound than to an ulcer, in this resembling the inoculation of the small- pox. Whether there are any parts of the skin, or any other part of the body, more susceptible of this irritation than others, in consequence of local application, is not yet ascertained. This form of the disease, like the first, or gonorrhoea, is generally caught on the parts of generation, in consequence of a connexion be- tween the sexes; but any part of the body may be affected by the ap- plication of venereal matter, especially if the cuticle is thin.