27 OF THE HUMAN TEETH. and is even smaller than the corresponding tooth of the lower, and con- sequently stands directly opposed to it: but for this circumstance the grinders would reach further back in the upper jaw than in the lower, which is not commonly the case. In the upper jaw this third grinder is turned but a very little outwards, is frequently inclined somewhat backwards, and projects over that of the under jaw. It oftener becomes loose than any of the other teeth. It is placed under the posterior part of the maxillary sinus, where the parts which compose the sinus are thicker than in the middle. The va- riations as to the natural number of the teeth depend commonly upon the dentes sapientise. Thus, from the incisores to the first grinder, the teeth become gradu- ally thicker at the extremity of their bodies, and smaller from the first grinder to the dens sapientiae. From the cuspidatus to the dens sapi- entiae the fangs become much shorter: the incisores are nearly of the same length with the bicuspides. From the first incisor to the last grinder the teeth stand less out from the sockets and gums. The bodies of the teeth in the lower jaw are turned a little outwards at the anterior part of the jaw, and thence, to the third grinder, they are inclined gradually more inwards. The teeth in the upper jaw pro- ject over those of the under, especially at the fore part, which is owing to the greater obliquity of the teeth in the upper jaw; for the circle of the sockets is nearly the same in both jaws. This oblique situation, however, becomes gradually less, from the incisores backwards to the last grinder, which makes them gradually project less in the same pro- portion. The teeth in the upper jaw are placed further back in the circle than the corresponding teeth of the lower; this is owing to the two first in- cisores above being broader than the corresponding incisores below. All the teeth have only one fang, except the grinders, each of which has two in the lower jaw and three in the upper*. The fangs bear a proportion to the bodies of the teeth; and the reason is evident, for otherwise they would be easily broken, or pushed out of their sockets. The force commonly applied to them is oblique, not perpendicular; and they are not so firmly fixed in the upper jaw, that is, the alveolar process in that is not so strong, as in the under jaw: it is perhaps on this account that the grinders in that jaw have three fangs. This particular structure in the alveolar process of the upper jaw is * Those anatomists who allow the teeth to have more fangs have been led into a mistake; 1 suppose, by often observing two canals in one fang, and thence concluding that such a fang was originally two, and that these were now grown together.