OF THE LUES VENEREA. 464 §. 2. Of the Continuance of the Spitting. It sometimes happens that the spitting continues after there is every reason for supposing the mercury to be entirely out of the constitution. As it is only a continuation of an action, or an effect of mercury having been in the constitution, it is necessary to distinguish it from the ori- ginal, or from the immediate effect of mercury ; since on this distinction rests the method of cure. Such constitutions have been generally sup- posed scorbutic; and where there is a great susceptibility of the mer- curial stimulus in these parts, the salivation will continue for months after the mercury has been completely removed ; but this medicine not being given now in quantity sufficient to produce such violent effects on the salivary glands, these cases seldom occur. In such cases I would recommend strengthening diet and strength- ening medicines. Sea-bathing is one of the best restoratives of relaxed habits, especially after mercury. Mead’s tincture of cantharides is sup- posed to be of service in those cases. The alveolar processes have sometimes become dead, and exfoliations have taken place ; and this alone has kept up a discharge of saliva. When this happens we must wait till separation takes place, find extract the loose pieces, after which the salivation will subside. I have seen part of the jaw exfoliate from this cause. In most cases the teeth become loose, and in many they drop out. CHAPTER V. OF PREVENTING THE VENEREAL DISEASE. As diseases in general should not only be cured, but, when it is pos- sible, prevented, it will not be improper to show, as far as we know, how that may be done ; for in this disease we can with more certainty prevent infection, its origin being known. Preventives are previous or immediate applications, and may be divided into various kinds; as those that will not allow the venereal matter to come in contact with the parts, those which wash it off before it stimu- lates, and those which will act chemically and destroy the poison.