OF THE LUES VENEREA. 309 See Philosophical Transaction?, vol. fif), part i. page 7. next degree, forming the second in order, come, next into action, such as bones, periosteum, &c.; but even in them it is not in every bone alike, or every part alike of any one bone, for it appears first in those that are in some measure within the power of being affected by sympathy from application of cold to the skin : we find that when the deeper-seated parts, or the parts second in order, come into action, such as the peri- osteum or bones, it is first in these that are nearest the external surface of the body, such as the periosteum or bones of the head, the tibia, ulna, bones of the nose, &c., nor does it affect these bones on ;dl sides equally, but first on that side next the external surface. However, it would appear that in the bones there is another cause, besides the vicissitudes of weather, why this disease should attack them ; for the periosteum of bones, or bones themselves, are not liable to be diseased on all parts in proportion to the distance from the skin, the periosteum which covers the ankles, or many of the joints, being as near the external surface as many other parts of the periosteum or bones that are affected. The na- ture of the hones themselves, which are covered by that periosteum, is somewhat different: they are softer in their texture, therefore they would seem to be affected in proportion to their nearness to the skin and hard- ness of the bones jointly; which would incline us to believe that the bones are more easily affected, and rather have some influence upon the periosteum in this disease than the periosteum upon them ; and this sus- ceptibility in the hard bones would appear to be in proportion to their quantity of earth and exposure to cold combined. It may be objected to this theory, that the fore part of the tihia, &c., cannot be really colder than the back part; but then it may be supposed that it is not necessary that the part should be actually cold, but only within the power of sympathy. For a part that is not actually cold is capable of being affected from its sympathizing with a cold part in the same manner as if actually cold, although perhaps not in so great a de- gree, and therefore requires a longer time to come into action than if it were actually cold. We find, for example, that when the skin is ac- tually cold the muscles underneath are thrown into alternate action, so that we tremble, or our teeth chatter with cold, and yet it is possible that these muscles may not be colder at this time than any other; although it is most probable that they are really colder*, which will assist the power of sympathy. So far as cold can affect the actions of parts, so far also will the sympathizing part be affected in proportion as it is nearer to the parts actually cold; therefore the deeper-seated parts in the venereal disease are later in coming into action.