OF THE LUES VENEREA. 4-iO The manner of living under a mercurial course need not be altered from the common, because mercury has no action upon the disease which is more favoured by one way of life than another. Let me ask any one what effect eating a hearty dinner and drinking a bottle of wine can have over the action of mercury upon a venereal sore, either to make it affect any part sensibly, as falling upon the glands of the mouth, or prevent its effect upon the venereal irritation ? In short, I do not see why mercury should not cure the venereal disease under any mode whatever of regimen or diet*. I own, however, that I can conceive cold affecting the operations of mercury upon the venereal disease ; it is possible that cold may be fa- vourable to the venereal irritation, and therefore contrary to that pro- duced by mercury ; and there is some show of reason for supposing this, for I have before asserted that cold was an encourager of the venereal irritation; and therefore keeping the patient warm may diminish the powers of the disease while under the cure. Mercury given internally is in many cases sufficient, although in general it is not so much to be depended on as the external applica- tion ; therefore I would not recommend it, or give it in cases where the disease has not been sufficiently cured by former courses of mercuryf. It is the most convenient way of giving this medicine, for many will swallow a pill who do not choose to rub the body with the ointment; indeed there are many circumstances in life which make this mode of introducing it into the constitution the most convenient; but, on the other hand, there are many constitutions that cannot bear mercury given internally. When these two circumstances meet in the same patient it is unfortunate. Mercury taken internally often produces very disagreeable effects upon the stomach and intestines, causing sickness in the one, and grip- ing and purging in the other. If it be found necessary to give it internally, and it disagrees either with the stomach or intestines, or both, even in the most simple prepa- ration, its effects, whatever they are, must be corrected or prevented, by joining with the mercury other medicines. If it affect the stomach only, the mercury may be joined with small quantities of the essential oils, as the essential oil of cloves, or camomile flowers, which will in many cases take off that effect. If it disagree both with the stomach and bowels, I believe it arises either from the mercury meeting with an acid in the stomach, by which part of it is dissolved, forming a salt, or from being given in the form of a salt, both of which will generally * The last sentence omitted.—Home. f The laM part of the preceding sentence, beginning at "although," omitted.—//owe.