OK THE LUES VENEREA. 433 §. 2. Of the Quantity of Mercury necessary to he given. The quantity of mercury to be thrown into the constitution for the cure of any venereal complaint must be proportioned to the violence of the disease. Two circumstances are, however, to be strictly attended to in the administration of this medicine ; which are, the time in which any given quantity is to be thrown in, and the effects it has on some parts of the body, as the salivary glands, skin, or intestines. These two circumstances, taken together, arc to guide us in the cure of the disease ; for mercury may be thrown into the same constitution in very different quantities so as to produce the same ultimate effect; but the two very different quantities must be also in different times. For in- stance, one ounce of mercurial ointment, used in two days, will have more effect upon the constitution than two ounces used in ten; and to produce the same effect in the ten days, it may perhaps be necessary to use three ounces or more. The effects on the constitution of one ounce used in two days are considerable, and also its effects upon the diseased parts; therefore a much less quantity in such a way will have greater effects. But if these effects are principally local, that is, upon the glands of the mouth, the constitution at large not being equally stimulated, the effect upon the diseased parts must also be less, which is to be determined by the local disease not giving way in proportion to the effects of the mercury on some particular part. If it is given in very small quantities, and increased gradually so as to steal insensibly on the constitution, its visible effects are less, and it is hardly conceivable how much may at last be thrown in without hav- ing any visible effect at all*. These circumstances being known, it makes mercury a much more efficacious, manageable, and safe medicine than formerly it was thought to be ; but unluckily its visible effects upon some particular parts, such * To give an idea of this, ten grains of the ointment used every day, during ten days, affected a gentleman’s mouth. The ointment was of equal parts of mercury and hogs- lard. But, by means of omitting the ointment occasionally, and returning to the use of it, he at last rubbed in eighty grains every night for a month, without having his mouth, or any of the secretions, visibly affected. the remedy. Experience fully proves that these puisonous effects are altogether incon- sistent with its action as an anti-venereal; and that perseverance in its use, after they have shown themselves, while it exposes the patient to imminent danger, at the same time in no degree answers the object of the surgeon in the removal of the disease fof which it is given.] VOL. IX. 2 F