446 OF THE LUES VENEREA. largest quantity of sugar. Insects do the same ; but we cannot have a stronger instance of this fact than in the bee. Honey is composed of sugar, with some other juices of plants, with a little essential oil; but sugar is the principal ingredient. When we consider that a swarm of bees will live a whole winter on a few pounds of honey, keep up a con- stant heat about ninety-five or ninety-six degrees, and the actions of the animal oeconomy equal to that heat> we must allow that sugar con- tains perhaps more real nourishment than any other known substance. We see too that whey is extremely fattening, which is the watery part of the milk, containing neither the oil nor the coagulable matter: this arises principally from the sugar it contains, for being composed of the watery part it holds all the sugar of the milk in solution. If the milk is allowed to become sour it is not so fattening, because it is the sugar which is become sour. Although the nutritive qualities of sugar have not been so generally known as to introduce it into universal practice, yet they have not en- tirely escaped the notice of practitioners. Mr. Vaux, from observing the negroes in the West Indies growing fat in the sugar season, has been induced to give it in very large quantities to many of his patients, and with very good effects. Honey is perhaps as good a mode of tak- ing this substance as any. Sweetening everything that is either eat or drunk, whether by sugar in honey or sugar alone, is probably immate- rial. Yet it is probable that the other ingredients in honey may add to its nutritive quality. ยง. 7. Of Local Treatment. If the local effects have gone no further than inflammation and swelling, either of the soft or hard parts, most probably no local treat- ment will be necessary, for the treatment of the constitution will in ge- neral remove them entirely. It sometimes, however, happens that the local complaints will not give way, but the parts remain swelled in an indolent and inactive state, even after there is every reason for supposing the constitution is per- fectly cured. In such cases the constitutional treatment is to be as- sisted by local applications of mercury to the part, either in the form of a plaster or ointment. The latter is by much the best mode. If these are not sufficient, as often happens, we must endeavour to destroy this disposition by producing an inflammation of another kind. I have seen a venereal node which gave excruciating pain cured by an incision only being made down to the bone the whole length of the node; the pain has ceased, the swelling has decreased, and the sore healed up kindly,