OF THE LUES VENEREA. 421 has all the appearance of a swelling of the bone, by being firm and closely connected with it. The inflammation produced in these later stages of the disease can hardly get beyond the adhesive, in which state it continues growing worse and worse, and when matter is formed it is not true pus but a slimy matter. This may arise in some degree from the nature of the parts not being in themselves easily made to suppurate; and when they do suppurate the same languidness still continues, insomuch that this matter is not capable of giving the extraneous stimulus, so as to excite true suppuration or ulceration, even after the constitution is cleared of the original cause, and then the disease is probably scrofulous. Some nodes, either in the tendons or bones, last for years before they form any matter at all; and in this case it is doubtful whether they are ve- nereal or not, although commonly supposed to be so. I have already observed that the pain in the first stages of this dis- ease is much less than might be expected, considering the effects pro- duced by the poison. The disease being very slow and gradual in its progress, its giving little pain may be accounted for. An ulcer in the throat causes no great pain ; and the same may be said of blotches on the skin, even when they become large sores. When the periosteum and bones become affected the pain is some- times very considerable, and at other times there is hardly any. It is not perhaps easy to account for this. We know also that the tendinous parts, when inflamed, give in some cases very considerable pain, and that of the heavy kind, while in others they will swell considerably without giving any pain. These pains are commonly periodical, or have their exacerbations, being commonly worst in the night. This is common to other aches or pains, especially of the rheumatic kind, which the venereal pains resemble very much. When the pain is the first symptom, it affords no distinguishing mark of the disease ; it is therefore often taken for the rheumatism1. * [Venereal affections of the bones are of different kinds. 1. Simple inflammation of the periosteum, which is marked by thickening of the periosteum, with much pain and tenderness, and usually terminates in the deposit of osseous matter beneath it, and the permanent enlargement of the bone. Sometimes, though more rarely, the periosteum suppurates, and then it often happens that a portion of the bone beneath it dies and exfoliates. This constitutes the most cemmin venereal node, and is frequent on the tibia, the ulna, and the cranium. 2. Caries of the bone, which commences in the cancellous structure and gradually perforates the external plate; and then appears as a soft tumour, which may be seen and felt externally. If this tumour is laid open, a glairy fluid is evacuated; the peri- osteum is found to be somewhat thickened and the bone beneath is denuded, and in