462 OF THE LUES VENEREA. standing, which, both from its appearance, and the symptoms which preceded it, seemed to he venereal. He was ordered two grains of opium twice a day, which he took a few days without any other effect than that of sleeping better at night than usual, when the dose was increased to two grains three times a day. His throat now gave him less pain, but upon inspection was not found to be at all mended. After two days the dose was increased to three grains thrice a day ; from this quantity he felt little or no inconvenience : he complained of being a little drowsy ; his eyes were rather inflamed, and his face rather flushed. He continued to take this quantity for five days, and then it was increased to three grains four times a day. Next morning the redness and heat of his face were much increased, and had extended over his whole skin; he com- plained of pain in his head. His pulse was full and strong; he was bound in his body, and his belly was tense and painful. The opium was omitted, and such remedies as the present symptoms seem to require were given, but without effect, all his symptoms continuing to increase till he died, which was on the fourth day after; during this time the ul- cer increased much, and the discharge of saliva was so great as to re- semble a slight salivation. This case proves, iu the first place, that the opium had no effect upon the ulcer in the throat; and, in the next, that it is a medicine capable of producing very violent effects on the skin, requiring therefore great caution in the mode of administering it. . John Morgan was admitted into St. Bartholomew s Hospital with an ulcerated leg. The common applications were tried for seven weeks, at the end of which time he was in every respect worse, having no sleep from constant pain, and he was sinking very fast. Two grains of opium were given every two hours for twenty-three days ; it made him hot and costive, and his pulse became strong and full, but without sleep or abatement of pain. The dose was increased to four grams every two hours in the day, and eight grains every two hours during the night. The effects were costiveness, retention of urine, loss of appetite, an in- flammatory disposition, no sleep, without any amendment of the ulcer. On the third day of taking the last-mentioned quantities he awoke from a short sleep, delirious, and continued so for twelve hours, when it le t him very weak, sick at his stomach, and with a low pulse. In three or four hours the delirium returned, and continued forty-eight hours ; the pulse on its return, immediately rose, and his strength returned to a very great degree. When it went off he fell into a sound sleep tor about eight hours, and awoke very tranquil, though weak : no more opium was given, and the leg in the space of a month healed ^ In the first twenty-three days he took twenty-four grains a day ; for