190 OF GONORRHOEA. §. 1. Of the Proofs of a Woman having this Disease. It may be asked, wliat proof there is of a woman having a gonor- rhoea when she is not sensible of having any one symptom of the disease, and none appears to the surgeon on examination. In such a case, the only thing we can depend upon is the testimony of those whom we look upon as men of veracity. Such men have asserted that they have been affected by a woman in the situation above described, having had no connexion for some months with any other woman. From this evidence it is reasonable to suppose that the disease has been caught from such women; and it should seem to put it beyond a doubt when the same rlicea, which was with the utmost difficulty restrained. Mercurials of every kind were then left off; the former symptoms grew more troublesome; the heat of urine increased, and extended to the bladder, as appeared by the continuance of the pain for an hour or two after she had made water. She was now desired to rub about a drachm of mer- curial ointment upon the thighs, labia, and inside of the pudenda. About this time another abscess formed, in nearly the same situation with the former, which was opened with a lancet; this gave her much relief; the heat of urine went off in a great measure, but the discharge from the urethra still continued as much as before: she continued the mercurial frictions with great freedom during the healing of the abscess,'insomuch that her mouth was greatly affected; she then left off the ointment for a little time, and soon after, the orifice of the urethra swelled and inflamed very much, the discharge greatly increased in quantity, and there was likewise a discharge of matter from the vagina; an injection of crude mercury rubbed down with mucilage of gum arabic till it was extinguished, and mixed with water, was ordered to be used twice or thrice a day; she had all along taken the almond emulsion with gum arabic for her constant drink, and this was continued in large quantities; she also again resumed the use of the ointment as before, by which her mouth was at times made exceedingly sore. “ The disease had now continued nearly five months; the catamenia regularly ap- peared ever since her first complaint; at the last return of them she was free from pain, and the discharge as little as it had been at any time during her illness, and she con- tinued free from uneasiness during that period, but soon after its cessation the heat of urine again returned in a most violent degree, and continued for an hour or two, with unabating violence; the orifice of the urethra again swelled as much as before. The discharge from the vagina at present is much the same, to which is superadded a shoot- ing pain in almost every direction of that passage and the parts adjacent, which fre- quently recurs during the day. I can feel no swelling of any other part within the reach of my finger; nor does the pressure give pain in any direction. Being now fully persuaded that the venereal virus must be fully subdued, all mercurials are left off, and she uses only an injection of opium and thin starch, keeping the bowels open with a little-castor oil now and then. Every fresh return of the ardor urinoe has been accom- panied with a train of most distressing nervous symptoms, hysterics, and extreme de- jection of spirits, and the pain is generally most violent in the night, though she drinks an astonishing quantity of diluting liquors with gum arabic, pulvis tragacanth., comp., See., and has frequently taken opiates, from which she has certainly received relief; but as they always increase her nervous symptoms, she is greatly overcome by their use.” ■—Home.