154 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. with the blood, it there irritates to action. There are produced from that irritation many local diseases, as blotches on the skin, ulcers in the tonsils, thickening of the periosteum and bones. The local, or first kind, is what I have called immediate, arising im- mediately upon the application of venereal pus. Of this kind there are two sorts, seemingly very different from one another. In the first there is a formation of matter without a breach of the solids, called a gonor- rhoea; in the second there is a breach in the solids, called a chancre. Neither of these two ways in which the disease shows itself is owing to anything peculiar in the kind of poison applied, but to the difference in the parts contaminated. The readiness with which the parts run into violent action in this species of inflammation, is greater or less, according to the nature of the parts affected, which perhaps does not arise from any specific difference in the parts, but is according to the common principle of sensibility and irritability; for we find that the vagina is not so much disposed to inflammation in this disease as the urethra is in the same sex, because it is not so sensible. However, it is possible that there may be some specific disposition to irritation and inflammation in the urethra in man ; and what would incline me to think so is, that this canal is subject to be more frequently out of order than any other, producing a great va- riety of symptoms. ยง. 1. Varieties in different Constitutions. This disease, when it appears in the form either of a gonorrhoea or a chancre, differs very much in the violence of its symptoms in different people. In some it is extremely mild, in others extremely violent. When mild, it is generally simple in its symptoms, having but few, and those of no great extent, being much confined to the specific distance ; but when violent, it becomes more complicated in its symptoms, having a greater variety, and extending itself beyond the specific distance. This does not arise from any variety in the specific virtue of the poison, but from a difference in the disposition and mode of action of the body, or parts of the body, some being hardly susceptible of this or any irri- tation, others being very susceptible of it, and of every other irritation, so as readily to run into violent action. The venereal irritation, however, does not always follow these rules ; for I have known young men, in whom a sore from common accident has healed up readily, yet the irritation attending a gonorrhoea has been violent, and a chancre has inflamed and spread itself with great rapidity,