240 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. stricture in the corpus spongiosum urethrae*. This more readily hap- pens if the stricture be in the bend of the canal, as in such cases the bougie can hardly be applied exactly to it, not having the same curve, such mischief I have seen more than once; and sometimes the bougie has been pushed so far as to make its way into the rectum. It often requires a considerable time before the whole is so far ulcer- ated as to admit the bougie, and this tires the patient and almost makes him despair of a cure. In this process great attention should be paid to the seeming progress of the cure; for if it appears to the surgeon that he is gaining ground by the bougie passing further in, and yet the pa- tient does not make w'ater better in the least, then he may be sure that he is forcing a newr passagef. When the stricture has so far yielded to these means as to admit a small bougie, the dilatation is to be made as in the former case where a bougie passed at first. Whenever a bougie of a tolerable size passes with ease, and the parts and patient have become accustomed to it, it is no longer necessary that the surgeon should continue to pass it: the patient may be allowed to introduce bougies himself; and when he can do it readily the business may be trusted to him, as he can make use of them at the most convenient times, so that they may be applied longer at a time and oftener, the surgeon only attending occasionally. This practice of the patient under a surgeon’s eye, by which he is taught how to pass them, becomes more necessary, as strictures are diseases that commonly recur; and therefore no man, who has ever had a stric- ture, and is cured of it, should rely on the cure as lasting, but should be always prepared for a return; and should always have some bougies by him. He should not go a journey, even of a week, without them; and the number should be according to the time he is to be absent, or to the place whither he is going, for in many parts of the world he can- not be supplied with them. The bougies for such purpose should be of different sizes, as it is uncertain in what degree the disease may return. Bougies, in all cases, from their shape and from the action of the parts, readily slip out, whereby the cure is retarded; but it is much worse wThen they pass into the bladder, which can only take place in cases w here the stricture is in some measure overcome. The conse- quence of a bougie passing into the bladder must at once appear in its fullest force to every one: it subjects the patient in most cases to be * Vide plate X. f This makes it necessary in all cases of strictures where bougies will not pass to be very particular in our inquiries whether the patient has used bougies formerly, and whether there may not be reason to believe that they had taken a wrong direction.