107 OF THE TEETH. in the constitution that universal consent of parts; but some one part is found which has a greater aptitude than the rest to fall in with the local irritation ; therefore the whole disposition for sympathy is directed to some particular part, and it sympathizes according to its own peculiar action. This arises from the different organs acquiring more and more their own independent sensations as the child grows older, and gradu- ally losing the power of sympathizing with one another, so that by the age of six years few parts suffer but those immediately affected; and in adults, who cut their teeth, wTe almost always find the pain and other symptoms confined to the part, or only local sympathy taking place, such as a swelling of the side of the face. But as the symptoms become more confined, the suffering part is often much more violently affected than where it has a power of taking in the other parts. Therefore we find that in adults the pain of cutting a grinder is frequently excessive, and that the local inflammation is very considerable, and often of long continuance*. This is not the case with children; their pain does not appear to be so very considerable, and we are certain that the local inflammation is not great; that it is con- fined to the very parts which suffer, and is not diffused over the face; so that in children the symptoms of sympathy are often more violent than those of the parts themselves. Though it is generally a fact that the symptoms of dentition in adults are confined to the parts immedi- ately injured, it is not always or certainly so; for sometimes, as will appear from Case the fourth, there will be the strongest symptoms imaginable from sympathy, which seems to be owing to a peculiar aptitude in the constitution to universal sympathy. These pains in the adult are often periodical, having their regular and fixed periods, from which circumstance they are often supposed to be aguish, and the bark is administered, but without effect. Medicines for the rheumatism are likewise given, with as little success, when a tooth will appear, and disclose the cause of the complaint; and by lancing the gums the cure often is performed, but the disease will recur if the gum happens to heal over the tooth, which it will very readily do if the tooth is pretty deep. As these teeth are generally slower in their growth than the others, and more especially those which come very late, they become the cause of many returns of the symptoms. How far children under this circumstance are subject to paroxysms of the disease is not an easy thing to determine; but from many of their sympathetic sym- ptoms going off and returning, it would appear that they have also their exacerbation. * Vide Case the third.