OF THE LUES VENEREA. 430 that can find convenience to rub in mercury, therefore they must take it by the mouth if possible. To obviate the inconvenience often ari- sing from the visible effects of mercury, many preparations have been invented ; but any preparation of mercury producing an effect different from the simple effects of mercury in that constitution, such as sweat- ing, or an increased discharge of urine, must be supposed either not to act as mercury, or the substance with which it is compounded produces this effect; but if its peculiar effects are less than usual, I should very much suspect that the mercury is acting in part as a compound, and not entirely as mercury. Mercury, like many other medicines, has two effects, one upon the constitution and particular parts, which is according to its mode of irri- tation, independent of any disease whatever. Ihe other is its specific effects upon a diseased action of the whole body, or of parts, whatetei the disease be, and which effects are only known by the disease gradu- ally disappearing. The first becomes an object of consideration for the surgeon, as it is in some measure by them he is to be guided in gi\ing this medicine so as to have its specific effects sufficient for the cure of the disease. Whatever injury mercury may do to the constitution it is by its visible effects, and thence the pretended art in avoiding those visible effects has been too much the cause of great imposition. The part upon which its effects are most likely to fall is the part that is in most cases attempted to be avoided, or guarded against, and that is the mouth. I believe that we are not possessed of any means of either driving the mercury to the mouth, or of preventing it from attacking that part. Cold and warmth are the two great agents mentioned by authors: we find them recom- mending the avoiding of cold, for fear the mercury should fly to the mouth, as if warmth was a prevention ; while others, and even the same authors, when talking of bringing the mercury to the mouth, recom- mend warmth, as if cold were a preventive. This being the case, we may reasonably suppose that neither the one nor the other has any material effect*. In giving mercury in the venereal disease the first attention should be to the quantity, and its visible effects in a given time; which when brought to a pitch are only to be kept up, and the decline of the disease to be watched, for by this we judge of the invisible or specific effects of the medicine, which will often inform us that some variation in the quantity may be necessary. The visible effects of mercury are of two kinds, the one on the con- stitution, the other on some parts capable of secretion. In the first it * The whole of this pnragrsph omitted.—Home.