OF THE LUES VENEREA. 411 the mouth, the disease generally shows itself at once, in the form of an ulcer, without much previous tumefaction, so that the tonsils are not away, and gives place to a dirty brown. Though the hue is changed, the stain remains equally indelible, even at a time when all elevation has disappeared, and the spot is on the same level with the surrounding skin. There is still a later stage, at which this brown stain gradually fades away, and the seat of the spot is altogether undistinguish* able. This peculiar stain is not found in all forms of venereal eruption ; it seems to be con- fined to the varieties of the tubercle; and there is reason to think that its exact nature and cause might be ascertained if we had a fuller acquaintance with the causes of the general colour of the skin, and with the functions of the sebaceous glands. 2. Lichens.—This eruption consists of small acuminated pimples, of a red colour, which are sometimes evenly scattered over the surface, at other times arranged in patches. It is not correct to characterize this eruption, as has been sometimes done, by the absence of suppuration. Many of the papulte imperfectly suppurate; that is, a small quantity of opake serum is effused under the cuticle at the apex, and this serum soon becomes purulent: but the pus never accumulates; in a few days the greater part is absorbed; the rest dries into a small scab ; and when this scab falls off, no ulcer, or depression, or cicatrix, is left behind. The pus is effused from the surface of the cutis, and is altogether unattended by ulceration. Lichens differ much in the size of the papula and the depth of the colour ; but they have one character which is very generally present, and which is shared by no other venereal eruption. They tend to pass spontaneously through their successive stages, and then spontaneously to subside. In other venereal eruptions the course of the dis- ease in the skin is a test of the course of the disease in the general system. A diminu- tion in the eruption argues an improvement in the affection of the constitution. In lichen, on the contrary, the colour may fade, and the elevation diminish, at a time when other symptoms are continuing to increase, and even when a fresh crop of lichen is ap- pearing. Ilence the same case frequently presents specimens of every stage of this erup- tion, from the first rise of the small papula, before maturation has taken place, to the period when all elevation has subsided, and the seat of the spot is marked only by a a pale or purple discoloration of the skin, which is effaceable by the pressure of the finger. This progress towards recovery, which often occurs spontaneously, may be very readily produced by remedies, which are altogether inadequate to cure the disease, especially if they are exhibited when the eruption has run through its natural periods, or about a fortnight or three weeks from the date of its appearance. Yet this natural tendency to pass off is subject to exceptions. It sometimes happens that the small papula continues slowly but steadily to enlarge, and at length attains the size, and assumes the copper stain, and all the other characters of the tubercle. A close examination shows the mode in which this change takes place. The lichenous papula is situated on one of those small elevations on the surface of the cutis, which mark the orifices of the ducts that perforate the cutis, and proceed to the glands which are situ- ated beneath it. The inflammation, which bfgan on the surface, gradually extends down the duct, and involves the sebaceous gland which is at the bottom. This tubercular lichen is not so much a peculiar form of lichen, as an eruption of lichen passing into an eruption of tubercles, by a process which is very easily understood. In such cases the subsequent course and the treatment are exactly those of the tubercle. Most forms of lichen present uo indelible stain. Hut where the eruption has been unusually lasting there will be seen, after the subsidence of the papula, a brown stigma, ■occupying a central point, and commonly presenting an appearance of depression or