SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 315 He is in perfect health, of a strong robust constitution, and has fine healthy children; the only change which he has perceived in the con- stitution has been a propensity to grow fat, which neither temperance nor violent exercise on horseback, daily, with little rest, will prevent*. * Added: “Case IV. A gentleman had a stricture, for which he passed a bougie; inflammation and swelling came upon one of the testicles; the inflammation was re- moved, and the swelling subsided; the testicle continued to diminish till it was ex- tremely small. “Case V. A gentleman had received a hurt upon one of his testicles in riding; it inflamed and swelled to a very great degree ; the symptoms went off, and he considered himself well; it did not, however, remain of the natural size, but gradually diminished till it entirely disappeared. “ Case VI. A gentleman was lifted from the ground by the hands with a consider- able jerk: he felt immediately a violent pain in the groin of the left side, and an in- flammation and swelling came upon the right testicle; when this subsided, the testicle diminished to the size of a pea, and was very hard in its substance. “Case VII. A gentleman, eighteen years of age, had a swelling brought upon one of his testicles by lying upon wet grass; it afterwards continued to diminish, till it was only one fourth of the natural size. “ Case VIII. A gentleman, twenty years of age, had been attacked at various times in the preceding eight years with violent pain and swelling in the right testicle and spermatic chord, which went entirely off, till two years ago there was a more violent seizure: for eight hours the pain was intolerable, and the swelling very great; it con- fined him six weeks. Since that time it has been diminishing in size and increasing in hardness : at present it is as small as a horsebean, and the spermatic chord is contracted. The left testicle has occasionally swelled, but always recovered its usual size. During the time he was affected with this pain, he has felt at intervals a pain about the neck of the bladder, especially when he made water, but not in any violent degree ; he likewise frequently feels during these attacks a sensation like the circulation of some fluid within the testicles.”—Home.