SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIIfEA. 251 bladder, or only to pass it through the stricture a little way, so that its end shall remain in the urethra. Nothing but experience can deter- mine this question; and, perhaps, in such cases we seldom make a fair trial, generally pushing the bougie on to the bladder; though, if we observe the consequences of bougies not passing in those cases where they either cannot pass far beyond the stricture or not at all, we find no inconvenience arising from this circumstance, except when they are applied with too much force, so as to make a new passage. The com- mon idea is that it will be more hurtful to allow the end of the bougie to lie in the urethra than in the bladder; but this seems to be more founded in theory than practice. Some people have such a quantity of calculous matter in their urine, or so great a disposition in their urine to deposit its calculous matter, that it only requires the presence of an extraneous body in the bladder to become an immediate cause of stone; for I have observed in some that the end of a bougie cannot remain in the bladder a few hours with- out being covered with a crust of calculous matter. Such people I have generally advised to use as much exercise as all other circumstances will allow. Bougies, when first introduced, often produce sickness, and sometimes even fainting. I have seen a patient become sick, the colour leave his face, a cold sweat come on, and at last a deliquium ; but all these effects soon go off, and seldom return upon a second or third trial. They at first produce an irritation on the urethra, w'hich gives pain in the time of making water, but goes off on repetition. They produce a secretion of pus in those cases where there wras none, and generally increase the discharge where there is one previous to the application of them; but this effect gradually ceases. It frequently happens that swellings in the lymphatic glands of the groin arise from the use of bougies, but I never saw them advance to suppuration. As in most of such cases there is a discharge of matter previous to the bougie being passed, they can hardly be owing to the absorption of matter, but must arise from sympathy. When treating of the stricture I observed that it was often the cause of a swelling in one or both testicles ; and further, that the passing of a bougie often removed that complaint. I may now observe that a very common consequence of the passing a bougie is a swelling of the tes- ticle. This also arises from sympathy, and, like the swelling of the glands, is a common effect of ail irritations of the urethra*. It may not be improper here to add some observations on the figure * Added : “ A gentleman who has had a stricture for many years, which at times is attended with a great deal of spasm, but has never any irritation in the testicles, upon