386 OF TI1E LUES VENEREA. chancre or gonorrhoea. The pns from these latter, when absorbed, ge- nerally produces a bubo, as has been described ; but we never find a bubo from the absorption of matter from a pocky sore. For instance, when there is a venereal ulcer in the throat, we have no buboes in the glands of the neck ; when there are venereal sores on the arms, or even suppurating nodes on the ulna, there are no swellings of the glands of the armpit; although such will take place if fresh venereal matter is applied to a common sore on the arm, hand, or fingers. No swelling takes place in the glands of the groin from either nodes or blotches on the legs and thighs. It may be supposed that there is no absorption from such sores; but I think we have no grounds for such supposition. Its mode of irritation, or the action of the parts affected, is very differ- ent from what happens in the chancre, gonorrhoea, or bubo, being hardly attended with inflammation, which in them is generally violent. It might be supposed that a constitution truly and universally pocky is not to be affected locally by the same species of matter; but from the following experiments it would appear that matter from a gonorrhoea or chancre is capable of affecting a man locally that is already poxed; and that matter from pocky sores, arising from the constitution, has not that power. A man had been affected with the venereal disease a long time, and had been several times salivated, but the disease still broke out anew. He was taken into St. George’s Hospital, affected with a number of pocky sores; and before I put him under a mercurial course I made the following experiment. I took some matter from one of the sores upon the point of a lancet, and made three small wounds upon the back, where the skin was smooth and sound, deep enough to draw blood. I made a wound similar to the other three with a clean lancet, the four wounds making a quadrangle ; but all the wounds healed up, and none of them ever appeared afterwards. This experiment I have repeated more than once, and with the same result. It shows that a pocky person cannot be affected locally with the matter proceeding from the sores produced by the lues venerea. But to see how far real venereal matter was capable of producing chancres on a pocky person, I made the following experiment. A man, who had venereal blotches on many parts of his skin, was inoculated in sound parts with matter from a chancre, and also with matter from his own sores. The wounds inoculated with the matter from the chancres became chancres; but the others healed up. Here then was a venereal constitution capable of being affected locally with fresh venereal matter. This experiment I have likewise repeated more than once, and always with the same effect.