306 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. Copulation is an act of the body, the spring of which is in the mind ; but it is not volition; and according to the state of the mind so is the act performed. To perform this act well, the body should be in health, and the mind should be perfectly confident of the powers of the body ; the mind should be in a state entirely disengaged from everything else ; it should have no difficulties, no fears, no apprehensions; not even an anxiety to perform the act well; for even this anxiety is a state of mind different from what should prevail; there should not be even a fear that the mind itself may find a difficulty at the time the act should be per- formed. Perhaps no function of the machine depends so much upon the state of the mind as this. The will and reasoning faculty have nothing to do with this power; they are only employed in the act, so far as voluntary parts are made use of; and if they ever interfere, which they sometimes do, it often produces another state of mind, which destroys that which is proper for the performance of the act; it produces a desire, a wish, a hope, which are all only diffidence and uncertainty, and create in the mind the idea of a possibility of the want of success, which destroys the proper state of mind, or necessary confidence. Hi ere is perhaps no act in which a man feels himself more interested, or is more anxious to perform well, his pride being engaged in some degree, which, if within certain bounds, would produce a degree of perfection in an act depending upon the will, or an act in voluntary parts; but when it produces a state of mind contrary to that state, on which the perfection of the act depends, a failure must be the conse- quence. The body is not only rendered incapable of performing this act, by the mind being under the above influence, but also by the mind being perfectly confident of its power, but conscious of an impropriety in performing it; this, in many cases, produces a state of mind which shall take away all power. The state of a man’s mind, respecting his sister, takes away all power. A conscientious man has been known to lose his powers on finding the woman he was going to be connected with unexpectedly a virgin. Shedding tears arises entirely from the state of the mind, although not so much a compound action as the act in question; for none are so weak in body that they cannot shed tears ; it is not so much a compound action of the mind and strength of body, joined, as the other act is; yet if we are afraid of shedding tears, or are desirous of doing it, and that anxiety is kept up through the whole of an affecting scene, we certainly shall not shed tears, or at least not so freely as would have happened from our natural feelings.