OF THE LUES VENEREA. 431 appears to produce universal irritability, making it more susceptible of all impressions ; it quickens the pulse, also increases its hardness, pro- ducing a kind of temporary fever ; but in many constitutions it exceeds this, acting as it were as a poison. In some it produces a kind of hec- tic fever, that is, a small quick pulse, loss of appetite, restlessness, want of sleep, and a sallow complexion, with a number of consequent sym- ptoms ; but by the patient being a little accustomed to the use of it these constitutional effects commonly become less, of which the follow- ing cases are strong instances. A gentleman rubbed in mercurial ointment for the reduction of two buboes. He had only rubbed in a few' times wdten it affected his con- stitution so much that it w-as necessary to leave it off. He was seized with feverish complaints of the hectic kind, a small quick pulse, debi- lity, loss of appetite, no sleep, and night sweats. He took the bark, with James’s powder, and asses’ milk, and got gradually rid of these complaints. As the buboes were advancing, it was necessary to have recourse to mercury again; and I told him that now it would not pro- duce the same effects so quickly nor so violently as before. He rubbed in a considerable quantity without his constitution or mouth being affected; but the buboes suppurating, I ordered it to be left off a second time ; and when they were opened he had recourse to the ointment again for the third time, and without producing any disagreeable effects. The buboes put on a healing disposition for a while, and then became sta- tionary, showing that a newr disposition was forming. He was directed to leave off the ointment and to bathe in the sea, which he did, and the buboes began to heal. In about three weeks, however, it wTas thought necessary to use more friction, and when he began, which was the fourth time, it had almost an immediate and violent effect upon his mouth ; he left off again till his mouth became a little better, and then returned to the mercury a fifth time, and was able to go on with it. A stout healthy man used mercurial friction for a bubo till it affected his mouth ; it further brought on very disagreeable constitutional com- plaints, such as loss of appetite, watchfulness, sallow' complexion, las- situde from the least exercise, and swelled legs; and although various means w’ere used to reconcile the constitution to it, yet it continued to act as a poison. Mercury often produces pains like those of the rheumatism, and also nodes which are of a scrofulous nature r from thence it has been accused of affecting the bones, “ lurking in them,” as authors have expressed it*. * The following paragraphs are added. “ Mercury often produces an itching of the skin, so much so in some that they can hardly bear it. “ Although mercury does not always affect the mouth, yet it sometimes affects the