305 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. perform well the duty of the sex. If his scrotum hangs low it makes him miserable; he conceives immediately that he is to be rendered in- capable of performing those acts in which he prides himself most. It is certain that the relaxation or contraction of the scrotum is in some degree a kind of sign of the constitution; but it is of the constitution at large, not of those parts in particular. Nurses are so sensible of the contraction of that part being a sign of health in the children under their care, that they take notice of it. The relaxation of it in them cannot be supposed to arise from inability to perform those acts at one time more than another. The face is one of the signs of the constitu- tion, and has as much to do with those peculiar acts as the scrotum. However, we must allow that this part is much more lax than what we should conceive was intended by Nature, even in young men who arc well in health ; but as this is very general, I rather suspect that it arises from the circumstances of the part being kept too warm, and always suspended, the muscles hardly ever being allowed to act, so that they have less force. How far it is the same in those countries where the dress does not immediately suspend those parts, I have not been able to ascertain. Warmth appears to be one cause, for we find that cold has generally an immediate effect; but this is perhaps owring to its not being accustomed to cold, which if it were, it might possibly become as re- gardless of it as it is of warmth. What the difference is in this part, in a cold and warm climate, all other circumstances the same, I do not know. But whatever may be the cause, if it is really in common more lax than intended by Nature, it is of no consequence as to the powers of generation. The testicles will secrete, whether kept high or low,a. ยง. 1. Of Impotence depending on the Mind. As the parts of generation are not necessary for the existence or sup- port of the individual, but have a reference to something else, in which the mind has a principal concern, a complete action in those parts can- not take place without a perfect harmony of body and of mind; that is, there must be both a power of body and disposition of mind; for the mind is subject to a thousand caprices, which affect the actions of these parts. * [Sir E. Home has here added a note, in which he expresses a belief that Onanism is more hurtful than the author imagined, and that its being practised before the parts have arrived at maturity in weakly constitutions, may prevent their ever attaining their full power and development. This opinion is not only in itself reasonable, hut seems also to he confirmed by experience.] VOL, II. X