77 OP THE TEETH. It sometimes happens that the abscess is situated some way from the root of the diseased tooth both in the upper jaw and the lower; but, I think, more frequently in the lower. When it threatens to open ex- ternally on the skin of the face, great care should be taken to prevent it, and an opening very early made into the swelling on the inside of the lip; for it is generally very readily felt there. This practice of early opening these abscesses upon the inside of the mouth is more necessary when the abscess is in the lower jaw than when in the upper, because matter by its weight always produces ulceration more readily at the lower part. I have seen this practice answer, even when the matter had come so near the skin as to have inflamed it. If it is in the upper, the opening need not be so very large, as the matter will have a depending outlet. To prevent a relapse of the disease, it will in most cases be neces- sary to pull out the tooth ; which has either been the first cause, or has become diseased, in consequence of the formation of the abscess; and in either case is capable of reproducing the disease. The mouth should be often washed; and while the water is within the mouth, the skin should be pressed opposite to the abscess. If the life of the bone be destroyed, it will exfoliate; and very pro- bably two or three of the teeth may come away with the exfoliation. Little should be done in such cases, except that the patient should keep the mouth as clean as possible by frequently washing it, and when the bones exfoliate, they should be removed as soon as possible. In these cases it is but too common for the dentist to be very busy, and perhaps do mischief through ignorance. ยง. 7- Abscess of the Antrum Maxillare. The antrum maxillare is very subject to inflammation and suppura- tion, in consequence of diseases of the neighbouring parts, and particu- larly of the duct leading to the nose being obliterated. Whether this is the cause, or only an effect, is not easily determined, but there is great reason to suppose it an attendant, from some of the symptoms. If it be a cause, we may suppose that the natural mucus of these cavities accu- mulating irritates and produces inflammation for its own exit, in the same manner as an obstruction to the passage of the tears through the lachrymal duct produces an abscess of the lachrymal sac. This inflammation of the antrum gives a pain which will be at first taken for the tooth-ache, especially if there be a bad tooth in that side ; however, in these cases, the nose is more affected than commonly in a tooth-ache.