OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 25 thence it loses in thickness, from side to side, to the extremity of the fang, so that the fang continues pretty broad to the point, and is often forked there. All the teeth hitherto described often have their points bent, and more particularly the cuspidati. The enamel passes somewhat further down externally and upon the inside, than laterally : but this difference is not so considerable as in the incisores and cuspidati; in some, indeed, it terminates equally all round the tooth. They stand almost perpendicularly, but seem to be a little turned inwards, especially the last of them. In the upper jaw they are rather thicker than in the lower, and are turned a very little forwards and outwards. The first in the upper jaw falls between the two in the lower, the second falls between the second and the first grinder; and both project over those of the lower jaw, but less than the incisores and cuspidati. The bicuspides, and especially the second of them, in both jaws, are oftener naturally wanting than any of the teeth, except the dentes sa- pientiae; hence we might conjecture that they are less useful; and this conjecture appears less improbable when we consider that in their use they are of a middle nature between cutters and grinders, and that in most animals, so far as I have observed, there is a vacant space between the cutters and grinders. I have also seen a jaw in which the first bicuspis was of the same shape and size as a grinder, and projected, for want of room, between the cuspidatus and second bicuspis. These and the grinders alter very little in shape on their grinding surfaces by use ; their points only wear down and become obtuse. Of the Grinders. In describing the grinders we shall first consider the first and second conjointly, because they are nearly the same in every particular, and then give an account of the third or last grinder, which differs from the former in some circumstances. The two first grinders differ from the bicuspides principally in being much larger, and in having more points upon their body and more fangs*. The body forms almost a square, with rounded angles. The grinding surface has commonly five points, or protuberances, two of which are on the inner, and three on the outer part of the tooth ; and generally some smaller points at the roots of these larger protuberances. These pro- tuberances make an irregular cavity in the middle of the tooth. The three outer points do not stand so near the outer edge of the tooth as * PI. III. f. I, 2, dd.