402 OF TJ1E LUES VENEREA. between the first pocky appearances after the healing of the local, and between the second appearance of the symptoms after the healing of tire first. A gentleman had a chancre in May 1781 ; in the same month of the next year, 1782, he had a gonorrhoea; and in May, 1783, he had a sore throat. He had no connexion with any woman from September, 1782, till May, 1783, which was about a fortnight before his throat became sore, and had had no immediate local complaints. When I saw the throat first I said it was not venereal; and he being rather of a hectic habit, was desired to go to Bristol. When at Bris- tol an ulcer appeared at the root of the uvula, which made him imme- diately come back to London. When I saw this ulcer I said it was ve- nereal. He now went through what I supposed was a sufficient course of mercury, and all the venereal symptoms appeared to be cured*. He went into the country about the month of August, and about the begin- ning of January, 1784, viz. four months after the supposed cure, he felt a pain, together with a swelling, in his shin bones, for which he went through a course of mercury, which removed both the pain and the swelling. In this case we have every reason to suppose that the disposition had taken place in the bones or their coverings, from the same cause that affected the uvula; but the uvula suffered first, being of the first order of parts. Whether this was really the case or not, we must allow that in the parts second in order, the disposition, and not the action, did exist at the time when the disease in the uvula came into action, as also at the time when he went through a course of mercury sufficient to cure the uvula; we must also allow that the disposition was not removed by the quantity of mercury which was capable of removing the disease in the uvula. From all which I would draw the following inferences in confirmation of the preceding doctrine : first, that the parts about the throat are capable of assuming the action sooner than the bones; se- condly, it is probable that mercury can cure the action only, and not the disposition; and thirdly, that the venereal pus is not present in the cir- culation while the secondary actions take place ; for if it were, the parts first in order would stand an equal chance of being again contaminated, and of coming into action a second time. Supposing the venereal matter still to exist in the constitution after the parts first thrown into action are absolutely cured, so as to contaminate the parts that are second in order of action, we should certainly have the parts first in order take on • I may remark here, that only the venereal ulcer got well by the mercury; for the former excoriation of the throat continued, hut was afterwards cured by bark and sar- saparilla.