OF GONORRHOEA. 185 has been discharged from the urethra, and the above-mentioned sym- ptoms have come on. I at first suspected that the absorption had taken place where the vessel gave way; but as this symptom rarely happens, even where there has been a considerable discharge of blood, I am in- clined to think that wounds are also bad absorbing surfaces, especially when I consider that few morbid poisons are absorbed from wounds. §. 13. Short recapitulation of the Varieties in the Symptoms. From what has been advanced above, it must appear that the variety of symptoms in a gonorrhoea, and the difference of them in different cases, are almost endless. I shall now recapitulate a fewT of the most material or common varieties. The discharge often appears without any pain, and the coming on of the pain is not at any stated time after the appearance of the discharge. There is often no pain at all, although the discharge be considerable in quantity, and of a bad appearance. The pain often goes off, while the discharge continues, and will sometimes return again. An itching in some cases is felt for a considerable time, which sometimes is succeeded by pain, though in many cases it con- tinues to the end of the disease. On the other hand, the pain is often troublesome, and considerable even when the discharge is trifling, or none at all. In general, the inflammation in the urethra does not extend beyond an inch or two from the orifice ; sometimes it runs all along the urethra to the bladder, and even to the kidneys; and in some cases spreads into the substance of the urethra, producing a chordee. The glands of the urethra inflame, and often suppurate; and I suspect that Cowper’s glands sometimes do the same. The neighbouring parts sympathise, as the glands of the groin, the testicle, the loins, and pubes, with the upper parts of the thighs and abdominal muscles. Sometimes the disease appears soon after the application of the poison, as in a few hours, at other times not till after six weeks. It is often not possible to determine whether it is venereal, or only an accidental discharge arising from some unknown cause. It may not be improper to mention here, that I have seen a chancre on the prepuce produce a pain in the urethra in making water, which most probably depended upon a sympathy similar to that by which the application of venereal matter to the glans produces a discharge from the urethra, as was observed above. If the application of venereal mat- was on the right side, and the excoriation principally on the left, yet there was a hard chord along the left side of the penis, leading to an enlarged gland in the groin."— Home.