SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. 275 may be said to act immediately are opiates and turpentines*, given either by the mouth or the anus; but they are more immediate in their effects in the form of clyster, especially the opium. Bark is often had recourse to in spasmodic affections, in which it is thought to be of ser- vice ; but in such affections of the urethra I think I have seen it fre- quently do harm. The external applications are, the steam of warm water with spirits, the pediluvium, the warm bath, bladders of warm water applied to the perinneum, and similar applications. The crumb part of a new-baked loaf, warm from the oven, applied to the perinseum, has been found to give ease. I have known a blister applied to the loins in a great measure remove the spasm from the urethra: it is equally effectual when applied to the perinseum. But in most cases these methods are too tedious ; therefore when the case has been of some standing, before assistance has been called for, and requires immediate relief, recourse should be had to the catheter or bougie immediately. If the contraction is near the bladder, the catheter will answer best; but in most cases the bougie wall be sufficient, and is a much safer in- strument ; for in many hands the catheter is a very dangerous one, re- quiring a dexterity only to be acquired by a thorough knowledge of the course of the canal, and a habit of passing it. The bougie has likewise this advantage, that in many cases, where the part spasmodically affected will not allow it to pass, it may be allowed to lie close to the stricture; for it is not always necessary for the bougie to pass through the con- strictured part: for a bougie which has only passed a very little way in the urethra has sometimes been effectual, if suffered to stay there till the desire of making water is perceived. In such cases, even when the bougie passes into the bladder, it is ne- cessary to let it stay in the passage till the inclination to make water comes on. If the water does not follow on the first attempt, it will be proper to make another; or if only part follows the bougie, it will be necessary to introduce it again. This circumstance, of the water fol- lowing the bougie with more certainty if it is allowed to stay till the inclination comes on, is a proof that the disposition in the bladder to contracting removes in some degree the disposition to contraction in the urethra. Some attention is necessary with respect to the passing of the bougie * Dr. Home, in his experiments on this medicine, found that large doses brought on the strangury in women. Strangury is the frequent effect of spirit of turpentine taken for some time. T 2