319 OF CIIANCKE. appear earlier, these parts being more easily affected than either the glans, common skin of the penis, or scrotum; for in some cases, where both the glans and prepuce were contaminated from the same applica- tion of the poison, it has appeared earlier on the prepuce. I have known cases where the chancres have appeared twenty-four hours sifter the application of the matter, and others where it has been seven weeks. A remarkable case of this kind was in a gentleman who had not touched a woman for seven weeks, when a chancre appeared. That this was a venereal chancre was proved, by his having had the lues venerea from it, and being under a necessity of taking mercury. An officer in the army had a chancre which appeared two months after he bad had any connexion with a woman. After the last connexion he marched above an hundred miles, when the chancre broke out, and only gave wray to mercury. This, like most other inflammations which terminate in ulcers, begins first with an itching in the part; if it is the glans that is inflamed, ge- nerally a small pimple appears full of matter, without much hardness or seeming inflammation, and with very little tumefaction, the glans not being so readily tumefied from inflammation as many parts are, espe- cially the prepuce; nor are the chancres attended with so much pain or inconvenience as those on the prepuce; but if upon the fra?num, and more especially the prepuce, an inflammation more considerable than the former soon follows, or at least the effects of the inflammation are more extensive and visible. Those parts being composed of very loose cellular membrane, afford a ready passage for the extravasated juices ; continued sympathy also more readily takes place in them. The itch- ing is gradually changed to pain; the surface of the prepuce is in some cases excoriated, and afterwards ulcerates: in others a small pimple or abscess appears, as on the glans, which forms an ulcer. A thickening of the part comes on, which at first, and while of the true venereal kind, is very circumscribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the surrrounding parts, but terminating rather abruptly. Its base is hard, and the edges a little prominent. When it begins on the frae- num, or near it, that part is very commonly wholly destroyed, or a hole is often ulcerated through it, which proves rather inconvenient in the cure, and in general it had better, in such cases, be divided at first*. * Added: “ The original excoriation or wound may heal, although contaminated, and afterwards become a chancre. A gentleman, in the act of copulation, tore the root of his prepuce all round, but in two days the whole healed; but one part broke out afterwards into a chancre, with a hard base, which readily yielded to mercury. This is similar to what takes place in inoculation for the smallpox.”—Home.