G7 OF TIIE TEETH. object of another consideration; for it may be lessened like any other inflammation arising from similar causes, the pressure of an extraneous body, or exposure of an internal cavity. If the inflammation be very great, it will be proper to take away some blood. The patient may likewise properly be advised to hold some strong vinous spirit for a considerable time in his mouth. Diluted acids, as vinegar, &c., may likewise be of use, applied in the same manner. Likewise preparations of lead would be advisable ; but these might prove dangerous if they should be accidentally swallowed. If the skin is affected, poultices, containing some of the above-men- tioned substances, produce relief. The pain in many cases being often more than the patient can well bear, warm applications to the part have been recommended, such as hot brandy, to divert the mind ; also spices, essential oils, &c., which last are, perhaps, the best. A little lint or cotton soaked in laudanum is often applied with success ; and laudanum ought likewise to be taken internally to procure an interval of some ease. Blisters are of sendee in most inflammations of these parts, whe- ther they arise from a diseased tooth or not. They cannot be applied to the part, but they divert the pain and draw this stimulus to another part; they may be conveniently placed either behind the ear or in the nape of the neck. These last-mentioned methods can only be consi- dered as temporary means of relief, and such as only affect the inflam- mation. Therefore the tooth is still exposed to future attacks of the same disease". 3 [In the foregoing passages there is much important anti accurate observation evinced in the description of the symptoms either attending or succeeding inflammation in the teeth. There are, however, apparently no less than three distinct diseases confounded in this description. The first is the inflammation produced by the exposed pulp from decay of the tooth ; the second, suppuration of the pulp, which often takes place inde- pendently of exposure; and the third, the inflammation and suppuration of the surround- ing parts, which as frequently occur from the irritation produced by the existence of dead teeth or roots in the socket (as extraneous bodies) as from any other cause. Many of the remarks on the treatment of these affections are replete with sound sense, and have undoubtedly laid the foundation for the best modes of practice in use since that day. A few observations of a more detailed nature may not, however, be wholly useless. When the disease termed caries, or more properly gangrene, has only just commenced under the enamel, so as only to exhibit the appearance of a brown opake mark, there can be no doubt that the entire excision of the spot will much re- tard the progress of decay by removing one cause of irritation to the surrounding healthy bone; but if the decay has extended to any distance from the surface, the file must be used to such an extent, in order to remove the whole of the diseased por- tion, as to expose a considerable part of the bone to external irritants, and consequently will hasten rather than retard the mischief. The replacement of a decayed tooth after extraction, being first of all boiled to de- stroy its vitality, is recommended by Hunter only theoretically. An obvious and in- i' 2