250 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. A gentleman had for a long time a complaint in the urethra, attended with a stricture, which was supposed to be originally from a venereal complaint. It was often attended with a discharge, which always pro- duced a slight fever on its coming on; but while the discharge lasted the difficulty of making water was relieved, and that in proportion to the greatness of the discharge ; and whenever he got a fresh gonorrhoea the same thing happened. Another gentleman had a difficulty in making water, supposed to arise from a stricture. It was generally attended with such a running as is common to strictures; but when that discharge was much increased then the stricture was less in proportion. During this complaint he contracted two different infections, both of which relieved him of the stricture for the time. As this is a mixed disease, it may be thought proper to treat it with a bougie for the real stricture, and for the other to use the method to be recommended hereafter for the cure of spasm. It sometimes happens in these mixed kinds that a bougie does not immediately pass, but is rejected by the spasm; but by letting it lie in the urethra, almost close to the stricture, for ten, fifteen, or twenty minutes, you will often make it pass. This is as it were stealing upon it, and the water will often flow although the bougie is not attempted to be passed on. It is often relieved by gently irritating injections*. CHAPTER V. OF SOME CIRCUMSTANCES ATTENDING THE USE OF BOUGIES ; THEIR FIGURE AND COMPOSITION. In cases of strictures, where a bougie is used as a wedge, not as a sti- mulant, and where a stricture is so far overcome as to let a bougie pass on, the question is whether it may be better to pass the bougie through the whole length of the urethra, so that the end of it shall be in the * Added : “ A gonorrha-a or occasional gleet relieves the spasmodic state of a stric- ture upon the same principle as the passing a bougie a few inches down the urethra: the irritation near the glans penis takes off the spasm upon another part of the canal.” —Home.