OF GONORRHOEA. 206 it continues after the fever is gone, it is then to be treated according to the symptoms.* Unfortunately, there are cases where no known method lessens the symptoms ; evacuations have produced no abatement; the strengthening plan has been as unsuccessful; sedatives and emollients have procured no relief; and time alone has performed the cure. In such cases the soothing plan, I believe, is the best, till we know more of the disease. Astringents should not be used, their action upon the inflamed parts being uncertain, for they often do not lessen the inflammation or the pain, although they may perhaps lessen the discharge. The turpen- tines, especially the balsam capivi and Canada balsam, lessen the dispo- sition of the parts to form matter, which effect has always a salutary appearance ; but as they have not at the same time the power of lessen- ing the inflammation, they can be of little service. Besides the various effects arising from the difference of constitution in the gonorrhoea, we find that it is considerably affected by the patient’s way of life during the inflammatory state, and also by other diseases attacking the constitution at the same time. But this is common to all other diseases, for whenever we have a local disease (in which light I have considered a gonorrhoea) it is always affected by whatever affects the constitution. Most things that hurry, or increase the circulation, aggravate the symptoms, such as violent exercise, drinking too much of strong liquors, eating strong indigestible food, some kinds of which act specifically on these parts, thereby increasing the symptoms more than by simply heating the body, such as peppers, spices, and spirits. From what has been said in general, it must appear that a gonorrhoea is to be cured in the same way as every other inflammation ; and it must also appear that all the methods used are only to be considered as cor- rectors of irritation in general, and of disordered circulation. In cases that have begun mildly, where the inflammation has been but slight, or in those cases where the violent symptoms above taken notice of have subsided, such medicines as have a tendency to lessen the discharge may be given, along with the local remedies before mentioned. The turpentines, I believe, are the most efficacious. Cantharides, the salts of some metals, such as of copper, zinc, and lead, and also some earths, as alum, arc strongly recommended as astringents when given inter- nally. Whatever methods are used for the cure, locally or constitutionally, • Added : “ A gentleman, while using an injection for a gonorrhoea, was seized with a vomiting and purging, which brought on a fit of the piles; they bled profusely: ns soon as he recovered from these attacks he found that all the symptoms of gonorrhoea had gone away.”—Home.