36 THE NATURAL HISTORY * PI. VI. f. 11, 12,13. pulps of the second incisor and cuspidatus begin to be formed, and about eight or nine months afterwards they begin to ossify. About the fifth or sixth year the first bicuspis appears ; about the sixth or seventh, the second bicuspis and the second molaris ; and about the twelfth, the third molaris, or dens sapientiae. The first five may be called the permanent teeth: they differ from the temporary in having larger fangs. The permanent incisores and cus- pidati are much thicker and broader; and the molares are succeeded by bicuspides, which are smaller, and have but one fang. All these permanent or succeeding teeth are formed in distinct alveoli of their own, so that they do not fill up the old sockets of the temporary teeth, but have their new alveoli formed as the old ones decay*. The first incisor is placed on the inside of the root of the correspond- ing temporary tooth, and deeper in the jaw. The second incisor and the cuspidatus begin to be formed on the inside, and somewhat under the temporary second incisor and cuspidatus. These three are all si- tuated much in the same manner with respect to the first set, but as they are larger they are placed somewhat further back in the circle of the jaw. The first bicuspis is placed under, and somewhat further back than the first temporary grinder, or fourth tooth of the child. The second bicuspis is placed immediately under the second tempo- rary grinder. The second molaris is situated in the lengthening tubercle in the upper jawr, and directly under the coronoid process in the lower. The third molaris, or dens sapientiie, begins to form immediately under the coronoid process. 'Phe first adult molaris comes to perfection and cuts the gum about the twelfth year of age, the second about the eighteenth, and the third, or dens sapientise, from the twentieth to the thirtieth; so that the in- cisores and cuspidati require about six or seven years from their first ap- pearance to come to perfection, the bicuspides about seven or eight, and the molares about twelve. It sometimes happens that a third set of teeth appears in very old people ; when this does happen it is in a very irregular manner, some- times only one, at other times more, and now and then a complete set comes in both jaws. I never saw an instance of this kind but once, and there two fore teeth shot up in the lowrer jaw. 1 should suppose that a new alveolar process must be also formed in such cases, in the same manner as in the production of the first and