OF CHANCRE. 351 §.3. Of a Thickening and Hardening of the parts. In some cases the parts ilo not ulcerate, but appear to thicken and become hard or firm ; both the glans and prepuce seem to swell, forming a tumour or excrescence from the end of the penis, in form a good deal like a cauliflower, and, when cut into, showing radii running from its base or origin towards the external surface, becoming extremely in- dolent in all its operations. This gives more the idea of a cancer than the first, being principally a new-formed substance. However, it is not always a consequence of the venereal disease, for I have known it to arise spontaneously. This disease appears to be a tumour of so indolent a kind that I do not know any medicine that stands the least chance of performing a cure. I have amputated them, and have also seen the same thing done by others, from the idea of their being cancerous, and the remaining part of the penis has healed kindly. In most of these cases a considerable part of the penis must be re- moved. Immediately after the amputation, a suitable catheter should be introduced into the urethra; for if no such precaution is made use of, the consequences must be troublesome; for the first dressings become cemented to the orifice by the extravasated blood, and prevent the pa- tient’s making water, which must be attended with obvious inconve- niences. This was the case with a patient whose penis I amputated. §.4. Of fFarts. Another disposition which these parts acquire from the venereal poi- son is the disposition to form excrescences or cutaneous tumours, called warts. This disposition is strongest where the chancres were, and in- deed chancres often heal into warts ; but perhaps the parts acquire this disposition from the venereal matter having been long in contact with their surfaces, for it often happens after gonorrhoeas, where there had been no chancres; and probably it is only in those cases where the ve- nereal matter had produced the venereal stimulus upon the glans and prepuce, forming there what may be called an insensible gonorrhoea. A wart appears to be an excrescence from the cutis, or a tumour form- ing upon it, by which means it becomes covered with a cuticle, which, like all other cuticles, is either strong and hard or thin and soft, just as the cuticle is which covers the parts from whence they arise. They are radiated from their basis to the oircumference, the radii appearing at the