OF GONORRIICEA. 196 virtues in this way I very much doubt. Under these different modes of treatment the patients always get well, and the cures are ascribed by each practitioner to his own method of treatment. To keep the body open in most cases, even when the patient is in other respects in health, must no doubt be proper; but what idea can we form of an irritation, produced all along the intestinal canal, curing a specific inflammation in the urethra ? Yet there are cases where a brisk purge has been of service, and even in some has performed a cure. But I suspect that in such cases the disease has been continued by habit only, and that this practice would not have succeeded in the beginning. A gentleman had a gonorrhoea, all the symptoms of which continued for two months, and by taking at once ten grains of calomel, which purged him most violently, he was almost immediately cured. The calomel eould not have acted specifically, but by a kind of derivation: that is, an irritation produced in one part cured one that subsisted in another. But, even if it should be granted that in some constitutions purges have the power of making the solids less susceptible of this irritation, it can- not be supposed they will have this effect in every case ; in some con- stitutions they might debilitate, increase irritability, and of course in- crease the symptoms. These contrary effects must take place in differ- ent constitutions in which a medicine has no specific action. On the supposition of the cure being promoted by an evacuation from the blood, what service can purging out some of the blood in form of a secretion from one part do to an inflammation of another part ? On such a sup- position, would not a sweat, or an increase of saliva by chewing tobacco, or stimulating the nose by snuff, all tend equally to cure a gonorrhoea? But humours having been considered as the universal cause of every disease, especially those in which pus is formed or a discharge produced, and purging having been supposed to be the cure for humours, purga- tives were of course made use of in this disease : and as the patients have always been cured, the practice became generally established. Those who recommended mercury in this form of the disease, did it most probably from the opinion that this medicine was a specific for the venereal disease in all its forms. On this supposition, we can see some reason for their practice, as it would be absorbed from the intestines, circulate through the inflamed vessels of the urethra, and thereby de- stroy the venereal irritation. Here wc can only suppose it to act by its specific virtue; but I doubt very much of mercury having any specific virtue in this species of the disease, for I find that it is as soon cured without mercury as with it; and where this medicine is only used ns a purge, or purged off the next day, and therefore allowed to act-merely upon the bowels, I cannot conceive that it could have any more effect