OF GONORRHOEA. 175 commonly believed that it comes from the whole of the canal, and even from Cowper’s glands and the prostate, and even what are called the vesi- culje seminales*. But the truth of this I very much doubt. My reason for supposing that it comes only from the surface where the pain is, are the following. If the matter arose from the whole surface of the urethra and from the glands near the bladder, there would certainly be many other symptoms than do actually occur: for instance, if all the parts of the urethra beyond the bulb, or even in the bulb, were affected so as to secrete matter, that matter would be gradually squeezed into the bulb as the semen is, and from thence it would be thrown out by jerks; for we know that nothing can be in the bulbous part of the urethra with- out stimulating it to action, especially when in a state of irritation and inflammation. In such a state we find that even a drop of urine is not allowed to rest there; and also if an injection of warm water only is thrown into the urethra as far as the bulb, the musculi acceleratores are uneasy till they act, and throw it out. Hence it is natural to suppose, that if the membranous and bulbous part of the urethra, with the vesi- culae seminales, prostate, and Cowper’s glands, assisted in forming the matter, whenever it collected in the bulb it would probably be imme- diately thrown forwards by the muscles above mentioned, and we should be sensible of it every moment of the day. But such symptoms are seldom observed. Sometimes indeed a spasmodic contraction of these muscles occurs, which may probably arise from this cause, though it is more frequently felt immediately after the urine is discharged. When the inflammation is violent, it often happens that some of the vessels of the urethra burst, and a discharge of blood ensues, which is in greater quantity at the close of voiding urine. This, however, hap- pens at other times, and generally gives temporary ease. Sometimes this blood is in small quantity, and only gives the matter a tinge; as I observed when treating of the colour of the discharge. The erections of the penis often stretch the part so much as to become a cause of an extravasation of blood. This extravasation generally increases the sore- ness at the time of emptying the bladder, and in such a state of parts the urethra is usually sore when pressed; yet the bleeding diminishes the inflammation, and often gives ease. * Those bags are certainly not reservoirs for the semen. The difference between the contents of them and the semen gave me the first suspicion of this; and from several experiments on the human body, as also a comparative view of them in other animals, I have been able to prove that they are not.