DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 4S1 very sore at night, anti looked red all round. A hard reddish pimple now appeared in the roof of the mouth. Those circumstances made me very unhappy. “ * I now began taking an alectuary, like the former, and drank a pint of decoction of the woods every day. This plan was adhered to for six weeks. « ‘ I took strengthening medicines for about a fortnight, and then left them ofV. << < I used a variety of things for my mouth and throat; one time an electuary, and gargled with port wine; another time I gargled with a decoction of roses, honey, &c. “ ‘ 1 now find myself in a much worse situation than ever; for although I have never been.disabled from pursuing my business, I have some additional disagreeable sensa- tions ; very unpleasant feelings in the shin-bones, which affect me more after walking or standing, as if pins were pricking me. They are not violent, but disagreeable. My legs sometimes seem uncommonly stiff; there is a soreness in the knee, and in the hol- low under the knee; a pain in the small of the back, sometimes in my arm. I think my corns, which are often troublesome, have been more so, especially in damp weather. “ ‘ About three months ago l discovered a spot on the inside of the right thigh, the size of a shilling, which at times assumed a copper colour, but in common the colour of the skin; but whenever heated it assumed this colour. On the other side several more, of a lighter kind, have appeared. There are several small ones, of the size of a large pin’s head, about different parts of the body, rising above the skin. There is no par- ticular pain attends them. “ • Within this week some very large spots have appeared about the neck, and the right side of the neck feels sore at times. For some time past iny nose and forehead have felt different from what they used to do. There has been a heat, attended at times with a pricking and throbbing pain, with a stiffness that I cannot describe. The skin about the nose seems red. This instant there is a pain and stiffness felt in it. My eyes seem weaker than they used to be and sometimes look red. My mouth has been affected; the membrane appears pale, and broken in some places. The saliva is very disagree- able; the breath is not offensive. Whenever I have wind in the stomach, my throat is very sore indeed. “ ‘ It is necessary that 1 should observe that 1 am of a scorbutic habit, which has always thrown out pimples betwixt my shoulders, down my arms, and sometimes some few in my face. “ ‘When 1 returned home in May, I found my wife looking pale and weak. This I concluded to he the effect of breeding. It appears since, that on my return, site must have been advanced about six weeks in her pregnancy. I prayed the surgeon to tell me if he thought' there was any danger of my injuring her, and that if there was, I would fling myself at her feet and inform her of what had happened. This 1 also told the doctor; both assured me there was no danger. Towards the latter end of June she seemed to have a slow fever. The apothecary attended her. She appeared vpry weak. By degrees she got better. In July she received a terrible fright, so that site became very poorly again ; was very weak, and complained of an unusual discharge from the vagina. For this, through much persuasion, l got her to consent to have the doctor’s advice. This I pressed very much, as he was acquainted with ail the circumstances that had attended me. I was very apprehensive that her complaints were now the effect of an injury received from me. ( told the doctor of the discharge, prayed him to give her symptoms due consideration, and pressed him to prescribe sucli medicines as would ef- fectually remove the complaint. He attended her, and assured me that there was not the smallest appearance of her complaints arising from such a cause. He said they were the effects of weakness and pregnancy. She never complained of any pain in the parts, nor of any heat in making water. At tiiis time she was troubled with an almost unre- mitting pain in her teeth, gums, &c. The doctor prescribed some strengthening cor- dial medicines, which she continued to take, for some time. She grew better, but was vou. ix. 2 i