OF THE DISEASES 80 the mouths of the alveolar processes, takes place in all ages, where a tooth has been drawn, and the connexion between the two parts is destroyed, this might lead us to suspect that the original cause of these diseases may be a want of that perfect harmony which is required be- tween the tooth and socket, whereby a stimulus may be given in some degree similar to the loss of a tooth; and by destroying that stimulus upon w’hich the absorption of the process and the filling up of the socket depend, the natural disposition may be restored. This last opinion is strengthened by the following case. One of the first incisores of the upper jaw of a young lady was gra- dually falling lower and lower. She was desirous of having a tooth transplanted, which might better fit the shallow socket, as it was now become. She consulted me : I objected to this, fearing that the same disposition might still continue ; in which case the new tooth would be probably pushed out in about half a year ; that the time since the old one began to sink, and a relief of so short a continuance, would be all the advantage gained by the operation; but I observed, at the same time, that the operation might have the effect of destroying the dispo- sition to filling up, so that the new tooth might keep its ground. This idea turned the balance in favour of the operation; and it wras per- formed. Time showed that the reasoning was just: the tooth fastened, and has kept in its situation for some years. These diseases arise often from visible causes. Anything that occa- sions a considerable and long-continued inflammation in those parts, such particularly as a salivation, will produce the same effect. The scurvy also, when carried to a great height, attacks the gums and the alveolar processes, which becomes a cause of the dissolution of those parts. This is most remarkable in the scurvy at sea. When the disease arises from these two last causes, the gums are either affected with the same disease, together with the alveolar pro- cesses, or they sympathize writh them. They swell, become soft and tender, and upon the least pressure or friction bleed very freely. How far these diseases can be prevented and cured is, I believe, not known. The practice has principally been to scarify the gums freely; and this with a view to fasten the teeth made loose l>y the disease, which has therefore generally made a considerable progress before even an attempt towards a cure has been made. This scarification has certainly a good effect in some cases, the teeth thereby becoming much faster -, but how' far the alveolar processes have been destroyed in such instances cannot be determined. Perhaps only a general fullness of the attaching membrane between the tooth and the process had taken place, as in a