OF THE LUES VENEREA. 388 vation October 21, 1782. The child took no mercury. It was supposed that its gums became a little sore; and the blotches got well. During the time that the mother was using mercury the ulcer from inoculation began to get well, and all her venereal symptoms disappeared. "What shall we say to this case ? Were the blotches venereal ? There was every leading circumstance to make us think so, and our opinion was strengthened by the method of cure. If they were venereal, my opinion, that the constitutional appearances of the disease do not pro- duce matter of the same species that produced them, is confirmed. If they were not venereal, then we have no absolute rule by which to judge in such cases. It has been supposed, and asserted from observation, that ulcers in the mouths of children from a constitutional disease, which constitutional disease has been supposed to be derived from the parent, have produced the same disease upon the nipples of women who had been sucked by them; that is, the children were contaminated either by their mothers or fathers having tire disease in form of a lues venerea, of which I have endeavoured to show the impossibility. If, however, it were possible to contaminate once in this way, it would be possible to contaminate for ever*. How far the observations, upon which the before-mentioned opinion is founded, have been made with sufficient accuracy to overturn those which I made with a view to ascertain the truth, I know not. But, from a more accurate investigation of some of those cases, which were by most of the faculty called venereal, they appeared evidently not to be such. To say what they were would lead us into the consideration of other diseases. The following case may lessen our faith in the hi- stories of such as have been supposed to be venereal. Before I describe the case, I shall first mention some of the circum- stances leading to it. A child was supposed to have infected its nurse with the venereal disease. The parents had been married about twelve years when this child was born. The father was a very fond husband, and the mother a mild and most affectionate woman. The father had a venereal gonor- rhoea two years before he married, that is, fourteen years before the birth of the child. About nine months after marriage they had a child, and afterwards a second, both of whom M ere extremely healthy at birth, and still continue so. The mother fell into a weakly state of health, and miscarried of her third child at the end of five months. The fourth child was born at seven months, but was puny, weak, and had hardly [See observations on this subject in notes to Part VJI ]