248 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. pute it to that, at least till we can ascertain the urethra was affected ; and even then it will remain doubtful. Strictures are not near so common in women as in men. This may be owing to the great difference in the length of the two canals; but more especially to the canal in women being more simple, and intended only for one purpose. The stricture in women does not produce such a variety of symptoms, or so much mischief, as in men, there not being so many parts to be affected. ยง. 1. Of the Cure of Strictures in Women. The cure of strictures in the urethra of women is similar to that in men; but it is rather more simple, from the simplicity of the parts. There is, however, an inconvenience attending the passing the bougie in women that does not occur in men, which is, that in most cases it must be passed for them, it being hardly possible for a woman to intro- duce a bougie herself. The confinement of the bougie is also more difficult; for although it can easily be prevented from going into the bladder by bending the outer end down upon the mouth of the vagina, yet it is very difficult to prevent it from slipping out. It will be neces- sary to have a bandage of the T kind passing dow'n betw een the labia over the bend of the bougie. It appears to me that the caustic would answer extremely wrell in such cases ; and therefore I should prefer it to the bougie, both for con- venience and efficacy. ยง. 2. Of the Gleet in consequence of a Stricture. I have already observed that it happens generally, if not always, that there is a gleet when there is a stricture in the urethra. This I sup- pose to arise from the irritation produced in the urethra beyond the stricture, by the urine in its passage distending this part too much, which distention is increased by the increased strength of the bladder. This symptom often leads us to the knowledge of a stricture, or at least gives a suspicion of such a disease; and when a stricture is know'll to be the cause, no attempts should be made to cure the gleet, for it is generally cured when the stricture is removed ; but if it still remains, it may be cured in the manner recommended in the common gleet, as probably arising from a cause different from stricture.