424 OF THE LUES VENEREA. rhoea is not in the least affected by it; and what is still more remarkable is, that the two which it cures are in no respect similar, while the go- norrhcea, which it does not cure, is similar in some respects to the chan- cre, which it does cure. It may be remarked in general, that there is not only a difference in the form of the disease, but also in the modes of cure, and in the times necessary for the cure of the different forms of the disease, even when the same medicines cure. The gonorrhoea, in its cure, is the most un- certain of the three, the chancre next, and the lues venerea the most certain, although cured by the same medicine which cures the chancre. A gonorrhoea in some cases shall be cured in six days, and in others require as many months, which, with regard to time, is about the pro- portion of thirty to one. A chancre may be sometimes cured in two weeks, and often requires as many months, which is in the proportion of four to one. The lues venerea in general may be cured in one or two months, which is only two to one. This calculation shows the regu- larity and irregularity, as to time, in the cure of each form of the disease. I have formerly observed, that indispositions of the body often affect this disease very considerably, more especially the gonorrhoea and the chancre. When an increase of symptoms takes place in a gonorrhoea, from an indisposition of body, nothing should be done for the gonorrhoea, the indisposition of body being only to be attended to ; because we have no specific for the gonorrhoea, and in time it cures itself. But this practice is perhaps not to be followed in a chancre or lues venerea. It may be necessary in those to continue the mercury, although perhaps more gently; for the mercury is a specific that cannot be dispensedVith, be- cause neither the chancre nor lues venerea are cured by themselves, but always increase. This form of the venereal disease I have divided into two stages. When in the parts most susceptible of the disease, which I have called the first order of parts, and which appear to he the superficies only, the lues venerea is perhaps subject to less variety than either the gonorrhoea or chancre, and its mode of cure is of course more uniform, although the disease be less easily ascertained, at least for some time. In the second order of parts the lues venerea becomes more complicated, and its cure still less to be depended upon. The cure of this form is much more difficultly ascertained than either of the two former: they, being always local, and their effects visible, be- come more the object of our senses, so that we are seldom or never de- ceived in the cure, although at the same time the cure is often more tedious and difficult; for whenever the symptoms of the gonorrhoea or