OF GONORRHOEA. 179 The ureters, and even the kidneys, sometimes sympathise, when the bladder i9 either very much inflamed, or under a considerable degree of irritation ; however, this but rarely happens. I have even reason to sus- pect that the irritation may be communicated to the peritonaeum by means of the vas deferens. This suspicion receives some confirmation from the following history. A gentleman had a gonorrhoea, which was treated in the antiphlogistic way. The discharge being in some degree stopped, a tension came upon the lower part of the belly on the right side, just above Poupart’s ligament, but rather nearer to the ilium. There was hardness and soreness to the touch, which soreness spread over the whole belly, producing rigors every third day, with a low pulse, which to me indicated a peritoneal inflammation, arising, in my opinion, from the vas deferens of that side being affected in its course through the belly and pelvis. When the inflammation, or perhaps only the irritation, runs along the whole surface of the urethra, attacks the bladder, and even extends to the ureters and the kidneys, so as to causo a disagreeable sensation in all these parts, the disease is generally very violent, and I suspect is something of the erysipelatous kind ; at least it shows an irritable sym- pathising habit. This disease sometimes produces very uncommon symptoms. A gen- tleman had a gonorrhoea; and when the inflammatory symptoms were abating, the urethra lost both the involuntary and voluntary powers of retaining the urine. His water came away involuntarily, nor could he stop it. I advised him to do nothing, and to wait for some time, as pro- bably the method of cure might be more disagreeable than the disease itself, although it was very troublesome to him when in company. The complaint gradually lessened, and in time went entirely off. §. 10. Of the Swelled Testicle. A very common symptom attending a gonorrhoea is a swelling of the testicle. This I believe, like the affection of the bladder, and many of the symptoms mentioned before, is only sympathetical, and not to be reckoned venereal, because the same symptoms follow every kind of ir- ritation on the urethra, whether produced by strictures, injections, or bougies. It may be observed here, that those symptoms are not similar to the actions arising from the application of the true venereal matter, whether by absorption or otherwise, for they seldom or never suppurate; and when suppuration happens, the matter produced is not venereal. The testicles seem, as it were, in many cases, rather to be acting for n 2