SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORTUICEA. 241 cut as for the stone; and indeed if it is either not soon thrown out or cut out it becomes the basis of a stone. A young man -was cut for a bougie only a fortnight after it had passed into the bladder, and it was almost wholly crusted over with calculous matter. Bougies have been known to be forced out of the bladder along with the water by the action of that viscus, and in several folds. It is probable that the bladder in a natural state has not power sufficient to perform such an action ; but we shall show that in cases of strictures where the resistance to the pass- ing of the water is very much increased, the strength of the bladder be- comes proportionably greater. This happens principally in strictures of long standing. Such accidents are often observed before the outer end of the bougie has got beyond the projecting part of the penis, but even then it is dif- ficult of extraction. I have succeeded in some of these cases by fixing the bougie in the urethra some way belowr its end : for instance, in the perineeum, by pressing against it with one hand, and pushing back the penis upon the bougie with the other hand ; then laying hold of the penis upon the bougie, removing the pressure below, and drawing the whole up ; and, by performing these two motions alternately, I have been able to lay hold of the end of it. However, this does not always succeed; for when the bougie is either small, or becomes soft, it will not admit of the penis being pushed down upon it without bending ; or if the thick end of the bougie has got beyond the moveable or projecting part of the penis, then this mode of treatment becomes impracticable. I have succeeded in these last cases with the forceps for extracting the stone out of the urethra; but if it has got into the bend of the urethra, this practice will also fail; and in such a state it would be most advisable to pass a catheter down to it, and cut upon that; and probably the above- mentioned forceps, introduced through the wound, might then lay hold of its end; or by cutting a little further, so as to expose some part of the bougie, it might be easily extracted, without the necessity of cut- ting into the bladder. This part of the operation, however, would be very difficult in a fat or lusty man. To prevent the inconveniency of the bougie coming out or the mis- chief of its passing in, it is necessary' to tie a soft cotton thread round that end of the bougie which is out of the urethra, and then round the root of the glaus. This last part should be very loose, for an obvious reason; and the projecting part of the bougie should also be bent down upon the penis, which makes it both less troublesome and more secure, vot. ir. K