174 OF GONORRIICF.A. The matter of gonorrhoea often changes its colour and consistence, which is owing to the disposition of the parts which form it; sometimes from a white to a yellow, and often to a greenish colour. These changes depend on the increase or decrease of the inflammation, and not on the poisonous quality of the matter itself; for any irritation on these parts, equal to that produced in a gonorrhoea, will produce the same appear- ances ; and the changes in the colour of the matter are chiefly observ- able after it has been discharged upon a cloth and become dry. The appearance upon the cloth is of various hues : in the middle the matter is thicker or more in quantity, and it is therefore generally of a deeper colour ; the circumference is paler, because the watery or serous part of the matter has spread further; and at the outer edge of all it is dark- est : this last appearance is owing to its being only water with a little slime, in which some of the tinge is suspended, which when dry gives a transparency to the part that takes off from the white colour of the linen. It is very probable that there is a small extravasation of red blood in all the cases where the matter deviates from the common colour, and to this the different tinges seem to be owing. As this matter arises from a specific inflammation, it has a greater tendency to putrefaction than common matter from a healthy sore, and has often a smell seemingly peculiar to itself. As it should appear that there is hardly a sufficient surface of the urethra inflamed to give the quantity of matter that is often produced, especially when we consider that the inflammation does in common go no further than two or three inches from the external orifice, it is na- tural to suppose that the discharge is produced from other parts, the office of which is to form mucus for natural purposes, and which are therefore more capable of producing a great quantity upon slight irrita- tions, which hardly rise to inflammation. These parts, I have observed, are the glands of the urethra. In many cases where the glands have not been after death so much swelled as to be felt externally, and where I have had an opportunity of examining the urethra of those who have had this complaint upon them, I have always been able to discover that the ducts or lacunae leading from them have been loaded with matter, and more visible than in the natural state. I have observed too that the formation of the matter is not confined to these glands entirely; for the inner surface of the urethra is commonly in such a state as not to suffer the urine to pass without considerable pain, and therefore most probably this internal membrane is also affected in such a manner as to secrete a matter. This discharge, in common cases, should seem not to arise much further back in the urethra than where the pain is felt, although it is