SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 287 When the circumstance of the ultimate actions of these parts not being regular arises from stricture, swelled prostate gland, or any me- chanical obstruction to the urine, then that cause must be removed, as has been fully described in the treatment of these diseases. ยง. 2. Of the Paralysis of the Bladder from Obstruction to the Passage of the Urine. We may observe that the bladder is a part easily deprived of its power of contraction; for we find in many debilitating diseases and long illnesses from any cause, as fever, gout, and considerable local diseases which debilitate, that the bladder often becomes paralytic, and the water must be drawn off. We may also observe, when the bladder has been distended considerably, from whatever cause, so as to have its contrac- tile power destroyed, that there is a considerable extravasation of blood from the inner surface of the bladder, so that the water which is eva- cuated is often extremely bloody. I have seen in cases where the pa- tient has died with this obstruction upon him, that the inner membrane of the bladder has been almost black, being loaded with extravasated blood; but this symptom of bloody urine goes off, as the bladder ac- quires again its power of contraction. In the diseases of the urethra, before described, when not properly, or in time, attended to, and in cases of stricture, wdiere Nature has not been able to relieve herself, the water must of course be retained in the bladder, which is perhaps always productive of another disease, that is, the loss of the power of contraction of that viscus. Although this one effect, the retention of urine, arises from very different causes, as before related, yet immediate relief must be given in all of them, which can only be effected by the evacuation of water. According to the nature of the obstruction, the mode of the evacuation will be different, and will be of two kinds, one by the natural passage by means of a hollow tube, the other by an artificial opening made into the bladder. If the causes of suppression are either spasmodic affections of the urethra, a swelled prostate gland, inflammation in the surrounding parts of the urethra, or tumours pressing upon it, as happens in pregnant women, immediate relief may be procured by means of a catheter, be- cause under such circumstances a catheter will most probably pass, the sides of the canal being merely forced together by spasm, or external pressure. A bougie, although it will also pass under such circumstances, will not answer so well, because a bougie must be withdrawn before the