SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONOURIKEA. 237 be sure the bougie has not entered iu the least; but if it be flattened for an eighth or tenth of an inch, or grooved, or have its outer waxy coat pushed up for that length; or if there be a circular impression made upon the bougie where the stricture is, or only a dent on one side, both of which last I suspect arise from spasm at the time, we may then be sure that it has passed as far as these appearances extend. It becomes then necessary to introduce another exactly of the same size, and in the same manner, and to let it remain as long as the patient can bear it, or convenience will allow; and by repeating this we may overcome the stricture. Sometimes we can judge of its having entered the stric- ture, by pulling it gently out; for if it stick a little at the first pull, we may be certain it has entered; but the appearance of the bougie itself will give the best information*. In such cases I have always directed my patient to preserve the bougie for my inspection, exactly in the same form it was when it was withdrawn. But when it passes with ease this nicety is not necessary. The time that each bougie ought to remain in the passage must be determined by the feelings of the patient; for it should never give pain, if possible. To go beyond this point is to destroy the intention, to in- crease the very symptoms that are meant to be relieved, and to produce irritation, which for a time renders the further application of the bougie improper. While the bougie is passing, if the patient feel very acutely, it should not be left in the urethra above five or at most ten minutes, or not so long if it give great pain ; and each time of application should be lengthened so gradually as to be insensible to the feelings of the patient and the irritability of the parts. I have known it days, nay, in many patients, weeks, before they could allow the bougie to remain in the passage ten or even five minutes, and yet in time they have been able to bear it for hours, and at last without any difficulty. The best time to let it remain in the passage is when the patient has least to do; or in the morning, while he is in bed, provided he can introduce it himself. * It may be remarked that there are some lacunae (vide plate IX, fig. 2.) near and also a little way from the glans penis, which often stop the bougie, and give at first the idea of a stricture. I have known them taken for such; and when the bougie stops so near to the glans this is to be suspected, and therefore we should vary the direction of the point of the bougie, bearing it against the under side of the urethra. When the bougie stops in one of those lacunae, I think that the patient appears to have more pain than from a real stricture. The valvular part of the prostate gland formed by disease, (vide plate XIII.) very often obstructs the bougie, and is taken for a stricture by those who are not well acquainted with the different obstructions in this canal; and by those who are, it is a means of discovering disease in this part; and indeed in a natural state of parts I think I can ascertain when I come to this part with a bougie.