OF TIIE DISEASES 66 consequences already described, and the tooth is making haste towards a total decay; in such a case, if the decay be not too far advanced, that is, if it be not rendered useless simply as a tooth, I would advise that it be extracted, then immediately boiled, with a view to make it perfectly clean, and also destroy any life there may be in the tooth; and then that it be restored to the socket: this will prevent any further decay of the tooth, as it is now dead, and not to be acted upon by any disease, but can only suffer chemically or mechanically. 1 his practice, however, I would only recommend in grinders, where we have no other resource on account of the number of fangs, as will be more fully explained hereafter. This practice has sometimes been followed with success; and when it does succeed, it answers the same end as the burning the nerve, but with much greater certainty. If the patient will not submit to have the tooth drawn, the nerve may be burned: that this may have the desired effect, it must be done to the very point of the fang, which is not always possible. Either of the concentrated acids, such as the sulphuric, the nitric, or the muriatic, introduced as far into the fang of the tooth as possible, is capable of de- stroying its soft parts, which most probably are the seat of pain : a little caustic alkali will produce the same effect. But it is a difficult opera- tion to introduce any of these substances into the root of the fang, till the decay has gone a considerable length, especially if it be a tooth of the upper jaw; for it is hardly possible to make fluids pass against their own gravity ; in these cases, the common caustic is the best application, as it is a solid. The caustic should be introduced with a small dossil of lint, but even this will scarcely convey it far enough. If it be the lower jaw, the caustic need only be introduced into the hollow of the tooth, for by its becoming fluid, by the moisture of the part, it will then descend down the cavity of the fang, as will also any of the acids; but patients will often not suffer this to be done till they have endured much pain and several inflammations. When there is no other symptom except pain in the tooth, we have many modes of treatment recommended, which can only be temporary in their effects. These act by derivation, or stimulus applied to some other part of the body. Thus, to burn the ear by hot irons has some- times been a successful practice, and has relieved the tooth-ache. Some stimulating medicine, as spirit of lavender, snuffed up into the nose, will often carry off the pain. When an inflammation takes place in the surrounding parts, it often is assisted by an additional cause, as cold or fever: when the inflam- mation has taken place in a great degree, then it becomes more the