193 OF GONORRHOEA. cific for some of the forms of the disease, this specific should be a cer- tain cure for every one; and therefore that it must be no difficult task to cure the disease when iu the form of inflammation and suppuration upon the secreting surfaces of any of the ducts or outlets of the body. But from experience we find the gonorrhoea the most variable in its sym- ptoms while under a cure, and the most uncertain with respect to its cure, of any of the forms of this disease; many cases terminating in a week, while others continue for months, under the same treatment. The only curative object is, to destroy the disposition and specific mode of action in the solids of the parts; and as that is changed, the poisonous quality of the matter produced will also be destroyed. This effects the cure of the disease, but not always of the consequences. I have already observed that this form of the disease is not capable of being continued beyond a certain time in any constitution ; and that in cases where it is violent, or lasts long, it is owing to the parts being very susceptible of such irritation, and readily retaining it. As we have no specific medicine for the gonorrhoea, it is fortunate that time alone will effect a cure: it is therefore very reasonable to suppose that every such inflammation ceases of itself: yet although this appears to be nearly the truth, it is worthy of consideration whether medicine can be of any service in this form of the disease. I am inclined to believe it is very seldom of any kind of use, perhaps not once in ten cases : but even this would be of some consequence, if we could distinguish the cases where it is of service from those where it is not. Upon the idea that every gonorrhoea cures itself, I gave certain patients pills of bread, which were taken with great regularity. The patients always got well; but some of them, I believe, not so soon as they would have done, had the arti- ficial methods of cure been employed. The methods of cure hitherto recommended, and still followed by dif- ferent people of the profession, are of two kinds. They consist either of internal remedies or local applications. But in whichsoever of these two ways this disease is to be treated, we are always to pay more atten- tion to the nature of the constitution, or to any attending disease in the parts themselves, or parts connected with them, than to the disease it- self. The nature of the constitution is principally to be learned from the local effects; for the local effects of this poison are so different in dif- ferent people as to require great variety of treatment; but this has been too little attended to, every one endeavouring to attack the immediate symptoms, as if he had a specific for a gonorrhoea. The first thing to be considered is the nature of the inflammation, whether violent or mild, whether common or irritable. Yet even when VOL. II. o