OF GONORRHOEA. 1C1 most of the otlier symptoms of gonorrhoea, except the discharge. He had the same complaint about twelve months afterwards, and then it was four weeks from the application of the poison before it appeared, giving for some part of that time the former disagreeable sensations; but from Ills late experience he suspected what was coming. From this I am inclined to believe that it seldom or never lies perfectly quiet so long, and that the inflammatory state may take place for some considerable time before the suppurative; and in these cases there is less disposition for a cure, as the very disposition which forms a running is in general a salutary one, and is an intermediate step between the disease, which is the inflammation, and the cure ; for in the time of suppuration a change has taken place in the vessels, producing the formation of matter. If this change should never take place, it is not certain what would be the consequence. Whether the inflammation would go off without suppu- ration, as in many common inflammations, I have not been able to de- termine, but should suspect that it would continue much longer than usual, because the parts have not completed their actions; and I also suspect that such cases always arise from some peculiarity of constitu- tion. §. 2. Of the Difficulty of distinguishing the virulent from the simple Gonorrhoea. The surface of the urethra is subject to inflammation and suppura- tion from various other causes besides the venereal poison; and some- times discharges happen spontaneously when no immediate cause can be assigned. Such may be called simple gonorrhoeas, having nothing of the venereal infection in them ; though those persons that have been formerly subject to virulent gonorrhoeas are most liable to them. It is given as a distinguishing mark between the simple and the virulent go- norrhoea that the simple comes on immediately after copulation, and is at once violent; whereas the virulent comes on some days after, and gra- dually. But the simple is not in all cases a consequence of a man’s having had connexion with women ; it does not always come on at once, nor is it always free from pain. On the other hand, we see many ve- nereal gonorrhoeas that begin without any appearance of inflammation, and I have been very much at a loss to determine whether they were venereal or not; for there is a certain class of symptoms common to almost all diseases of the urethra, from which it is difficult to distinguish the few that arise solely from the specific affection. I have known the urethra sympathize with the cutting of a tooth* producing all the sym- * Natural History of the Teeth, Part II. ji. 110. VOL. it. M