268 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. spongiosum it produces mortification of all these parts, and renders the whole so indistinct that often no urethra can be found. The effects that the circumscribed inflammation has upon the con- stitution is generally not so serious as the above; for mortification as seldom takes place in this as in abscesses in general. When the abscess is from the bulb backwards, there is generally a smart sympathetic fever, because the abscess will be of considerable size before it gets to the skin of the perinseum, and is generally attended with great pain; but this pain goes off by the formation of the matter, especially if opened early. As there is a great disposition to violent action, attended with great weakness, in such cases, more especially in those of the first kind, it is advisable to give the bark early, and in considerable quantity; but I apprehend it is necessary to give along with it sudorifics, as some of the preparations of antimony, there being generally a good deal of fever. The bark gives strength, and also in some degree lessens irritability; but it should be assisted by other medicines. §.6. Of Fistula; in Perina;o. It often happens that the new passages for the urine do not heal, on account of the stricture not being removed; and even when the stric- ture is removed they frequently have no disposition to heal. In both cases they become fistulous, and produce fresh inflammations and sup- purations, which do not always open into the old sore, but make new openings externally. These sometimes arise from the first external openings not being sufficiently large, so that they heal up long before the bottom, or long before the diseased urethra; and even when the external opening has been made as large as possible, it will often heal sooner than the bottom, and become fistulous at last. It is very common for these diseases to affect the constitution so as to bring on complaints of an intermittent kind. I have seen several affected with regular agues, where the bark has produced no effect; but whenever the obstruction has been got the better of, or the fistulous orifice opened and in a state of healing, these complaints have entirely gone off. To cure this disease it is necessary first to make the natural passage as free as possible, that no obstruction may arise from that quarter; and sometimes this alone is sufficient: for the urine, finding a free pas- sage forwards, is not forced into the orifice, and the fistul® heal up. The bougie may bring on an inflammation on the urethra at this part.