473 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. day of their eruption were attended with fever, universal uneasiness, and great pain. Two or three days after the eruption on the skin appeared, one of the glands of the armpit began to swell, and formed matter, and was opened within a fortnight after its first appearance, and healed almost directly. Some of the eruptions increased fast and became very broad sores, nearly of the size of a half-crown, especially on the legs and thighs, and were covered with a broad scab; many remained small, and only appeared like pimples. About a fortnight after the first appearance of the erup- tion, some began to die away; and in four weeks more after this appear- ance, a foul ulcer attacked the left tonsil. The surgeon in the country, from all these circumstances, finding he could not get any ground by the before-mentioned treatment, determined to give her the solution of the corrosive sublimate, of which he gave half a grain in solution night and morning; in about a week there seemed to be a stop put to the swelling of the ulcers, and the discharge to be some- what lessened, the ulcer in the throat putting on a better appearance. It was at this period I first saw her, which was about six weeks after the first appearance of the eruption, and a fortnight after the appearance of the ulcer in the tonsil. The eruptions were then very much as before described, but the ulcer in the tonsil was clean and healing. From the history of the case I did conceive it not to be venereal; I therefore de- sired that all medicines might be left off, which medicines could only have been taken for a fortnight at most, because it was after the appear- ance of the ulcer on the tonsil the mercury was given, which was only of a fortnight’s standing when I saw her. She soon after recovered. After being well for some time she again applied to the surgeon in the country, an abscess having formed where the complaint first began in the breast, attended with fresh eruptions on the face. The abscess was opened, and it healed up in a few days, and upon taking some cooling physic the eruptions disappeared. She has con- tinued very well ever since, without any other bad effect than the total loss of her nipple. This case was certainly understood to be venereal. About five days after the appearance of the eruption on the nurse, the gentleman’s child was taken away and given to a healthy woman of a florid complexion, aged twenty-four years, and who had lain in with her first child eleven months when she became wetnurse to this child. After a few days she observed eruptions on the child’s head, not unlike those already described on the first nurse which it had sucked. Its mouth soon after became excoriated, so that it sucked with difficulty. After a short time those eruptions on the head became dry and peeled off, others appeared on the face, knees, and feet, but wholly unlike the for-