340 OF CHANCRE. can of itself produce inflammation where the prepuce is naturally tight, as has been observed. From whatever cause it arises, it often produces mortification in the parts between the stricture and the glans if it is not removed. This removal sometimes happens naturally by the ulceration of the strictured part, but an operation is generally necessary, and it is more troublesome than in the former case, because the swelling on each side of the stricture covers or closes in upon the tight part, and makes it difficult to be got at. The best way appears to be to separate the two swellings as much as possible where you mean to cut, so as to expose the neck; then take a crooked bistory which is pointed, and passing it under the skin at the neck, divide it; no part of the two swellings on the sides need be di- vided, for it is the looseness of the skin in these parts which admits of their swelling. When this is done the prepuce may be brought forwards over the glans; but as this disease arose from chancres which may re- quire being dressed, and as the state of a phimosis is a very bad one for such treatment, it may be better, now that the stricture is removed, to let it remain in the same situation till the whole is well. If the paraphimosis has arisen from a natural tightness of the prepuce, and its being forced back from accident, then no particular treatment after the operation is necessary hut to go on with the cure as recom- mended in chancres. It is indeed probable that in consequence of the violence produced by the position of the prepuce, as also by the opera- tion, a considerable inflammation may ensue; but as this will be an in- flammation in consequence of violence only, local treatment for the in- flammation will be sufficient. But if it is a paraphimosis in consequence of a diseased phimosis, then the same mode of treatment becomes equally necessary as was re- commended in the phimosis attended with considerable inflammation; and probably rather more attention is necessary here, as violence has been added to the former disease. ยง.7. Of the Cure of Chancres by Mercury given internally. While chancres are under local treatment, as before described, it is necessary to give mercurials internally, both for the cure of a chancre and the prevention of a lues venerea; and we may reasonably venture to affirm, that the venereal disposition of chancre will hardly ever with- stand both local and internal mercurials. In cases of chancres where local applications cannot easily be made, as in cases of phimosis, internal mercurials become absolutely necessary,