97 OF THE TEETH. the splinters do mischief: I very much doubt this; for if they are not so much detached as to lose the living principle, they still continue part of our body, and are rounded off at their points, as all splinters are in other fractures, and particularly here, for the reasons already assigned, viz. because this part has a greater disposition for wasting. And if they are 'wholly detached they will either come away before the gum contracts entirely, or after it is closed will act as an extraneous body, form a small abscess in the gum, and come out. It sometimes happens that the tooth is broken, and its point or more of the fang is left behind, which is very often sufficient to continue the former complaints; and therefore it should be extracted, if it can be done, with care. If it cannot be extracted the gum will in part grow over it, and the alveoli will decay as far as where it is. The decaying principle of the socket will produce the disposition to fill up at the bot- tom, whereby the stump will be pushed out; but, perhaps, not till it has given some fits of the tooth-ache. However, this circumstance does not always become a cause of the tooth-ache. Transplanting Teeth. Although this operation is in itself a matter of no difficulty, yet upon the whole it is one of the nicest of all operations, and requires more chirurgical and physiological knowledge than any that comes under the care of the dentist. There are certain cautions necessary to be observed, especially if it be a living tooth which is to' be transplanted, because in that case it is meant to retain its life, and we have no great variety of choice. Much, likewise, depends upon the patient; he should apply early, and give the dentist all the time he thinks necessary to get a suf- ficient number of teeth that appear to be of a proper size, &c. Likewise he must not be impatient to get out of his hands before it is advisable. The incisores, cuspidati, and bicuspides can alone be changed, be- cause they have single fangs. The success is greater in the incisores and cuspidati than the bicuspides, these last having frequently the ends of their fangs forked, from which circumstance the operation will become less perfect. It is hardly possible to transplant the grinders, as the chance of fitting the sockets of them is very small. When indeed a grinder is extracted, and the socket sound and perfect, the dentist may, perhaps, be able to fit it by a dead tooth. ' Of the State of the Gums and Sockets. lire first object of attention is the sockets and gums of the person VOL. II. h