228 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. sage of the urine; it happens both in young and old, although most frequently in the latter. Before I begin to treat of this subject, I shall, for the better understanding of the whole, make some observations on the uses of this passage in its natural state. It may first be observed, that the urethra in man is employed for two purposes. On this occasion I may be allowed to make the following general remark, that nature has not been able to apply any one part to two uses with advantage, as might be illustrated in many instances in different animals. The animals whose legs are contrived both for swimming and walking, are not good at either, as seals, otters, ducks, and geese. The animals also whose legs are intended both for walking and flying, are but badly formed for either, as the bat. The same ob- servations are applicable to fish, for the flying fish neither swims nor flies well; and whenever parts intended for such double functions are diseased, both are performed imperfectly. This is immediately appli- cable to the urethra, for it is intended as a canal or passage both for the urine and the semen. The urine requires the simplest of all canals, and of no greater length than the distance from the bladder to the external surface, as we find the urethra in women, birds, the amphibia, and fish ; but the passage for the semen in the quadruped requires to be a com- plicated canal, and of a length capable of conveying the semen to the female, provided with many additional and necessary parts, as the cor- pus spongiosum urethrae, musculi acceleratores, Cowper’s glands, pros- tate gland, and vesiculae seminales. As all these parts are to serve the purposes of generation, and as the diseases of this canal are princi- pally seated in them, we at once see how much the urinary organs must suffer from a connexion with parts so numerous and so liable to disease; and what adds to the evil is, that the actions of the urinary organs are constant, and absolutely necessary for the well-being of the machine, whereas the evacuation of the semen takes place only during a certain portion of life, is then only occasional, and never essentially necessary to the existence of the individual. The force of this observation is at once seen by making the comparison between the inconveniences that attend the expulsion of the urine in the male, and in the female. The canal of the urethra is liable to such diseases as are capable of preventing in some degree the passage of the urine through it; and in some of these diseases the passage at last becomes completely obstructed. In all cases there is a diminution of the size of the canal, but in different ways. There are five modes of obstruction, four of w'hich are diseases of the passage itself, the fifth is a consequence of the diseases of other parts. Three of the former are a lessening of the diameter of the pas- sage ; the fourth an excrescence in the passage ; the fifth arises from the