346 OF CHANCRE. never happen but when the inflammation has been violent, which vio- lence arises more from the nature of the parts than the disease, and there- fore belongs more to the nature of the parts or constitution than to the disease. However, I can conceive it may also take place where the in- flammation has not been violent. In general they are supposed to be cancerous, but I believe they sel- dom are, although it is not impossible that some may be so. Of this kind may be reckoned those continued and often increased inflammations, suppurations, and ulcerations, becoming diffused through the whole prepuce, as also all along the common skin of the penis, which becomes of a purple hue; the cellular membrane everywhere on the penis being very much thickened, so as to increase the size of the whole considerably. The ulceration on the inside of the prepuce will sometimes increase and run between the skin and the body of the penis, and eat holes through in different places till the whole is reduced to a number of ragged sores. The glans often shares the same fate, till more or less of it is gone ; frequently the urethra at this part is wholly destroyed by ulceration, and the urine is discharged some way further back. If a stop is not put to the progress of the disease, the ulceration will con- tinue till the parts are entirely destroyed. I suspect that some of these cases are scrofulous. As this is an acute case, immediate relief should he given, if possible ; but as it may arise from various peculiarities in the constitution, and as these peculiarities are not at first known, no rational method can be here determined. The decoction of sarsaparilla is often of service hi such cases, but requires to be given in large quantities. The German diet-drink* has been of singular service; I knew a case of this kind cured by it, after every known remedy had been tried. The extract of hemlock is sometimes of service. I have known sea-bathing cure these complaints entirely. A gentleman came from Ireland with a complaint of this kind, and after having tried every common and known method without effect, as sarsaparilla, hemlock, German diet- * The following formula have been much recommended as diet-drinks. Take of crude antimony, pulverized, tied up in a bit of rag; pumice-stone, pulverized, tied up in the same, of each one ounce ; China-root, sliced; sarsaparilla-root, sliced and bruised, of each half an ounce ; ten walnuts, with their rinds, bruised; spring water four pints, boil to half that quantity ; filter it, and let it be drunk daily in divided doses. Take sarsaparilla, Saunders-wood, white and red, of each three ounces; liquorice and mezereon, of each half an ounce ; lignum rhodium, guaiacum, sassafras, of each one ounce; crude antimony, two ounces; mix them and infuse them in boiling water, ten pints, foT twenty-four hours, and afterwards boil them to five pints, of which let the dose be from a pint and a half to font (tints a day.