SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. 303 those bags improperly called vesiculae scminales, or both; and it may not be improper to give here the distinguishing marks between these two fluids. First, we may observe the discharge in question is not of the same colour with the semen, and is exactly of the colour of the mucus of the prostate gland and of those bags. It has not the same smell, and indeed it hardly has any smell at all. The quantity, evacu- ated at one time is often much more considerable than the evacuation of semen ever is, and it happens more frequently than it could possibly do were the discharge semen. It is a disease that often attacks old men, where one can hardly suppose much semen to be secreted ; and we find that those who are affected with this disease arc no more deficient in the secretion and evacuation of the semen, in the natural way, than before they had the disease. If the mind be at ease, this shall take place im- mediately after a discharge of semen as well as before, which could not be the case were it semen. Further, if those that labour under this complaint are not connected with women they are subject to nocturnal discharges from the imagination, as persons who are perfectly sound : and indeed most patients, when made acquainted with these circum- stances, become very sensible that it is not the semen*. It is not clear what the diseased state of the parts is upon which this discharge depends, whether there is a larger secretion of this mucus than natural, or whether it is entirely owing to a preternatural uncom- mon action of those parts ; and if this last, why these parts should be put into action when the bladder, rectum, and abdominal muscles are thrown into action to expel their contents, is not easily explained. It is plain that the most violent actions of these parts are necessary to produce this evacuation; for it does not come with the first of the urine, nor in general with an easy stool. As it was thought to be a seminal discharge, it was imagined to arise from a weakness in the organs of generation; and as frequent discharges of the semen in the natural way generally weaken, it was therefore imagined that this discharge must also weaken very considerably; and the imagination will operate so strongly as to make the patients believe they really are weakened. Whether the cause of such a discharge is capable of weakening, I will not pretend to say; but I believe that the discharge simply does not. Fear and anxiety of mind may really weuken the patient. In the cases I have seen of tins kind the mind has been more affected than the body. From my own practice, I can hardly recommend any one medicine, * Added: “ A gentleman has often a discharge of mucus from the urethra with the last drops of urine, and when lie goes to stool, but after having connexion with women it does not take place.”—Home.