374 OF liUUO. §.G. Of the Treatment of Buboes when they suppurate. After ever}' known method has been used, buboes cannot in all cases be resolved, but come to suppuration. They then become more an ob- ject of surgery, and are to be treated in some respects like any other abscess. If it be thought proper to open a bubo, it should be allowed to go on thinning the parts as much as possible. The great advantage arising from this is, that these parts, having become very thin, lose the disposition to heal, which gives the bottom of the abscess a better chance of healing along with the superficial parts; by this means too a large opening is avoided, and the different modes made use of for keeping the skin from healing till the bottom is healed become unnecessary. It may admit of dispute whether the application of mercury should be continued or not through the whole suppuration. I should he in- clined to continue it, but in a smaller quantity; for although the parts cannot set about a cure till opened, yet I do imagine that they may be better disposed to it; and I think that I have seen cases where suppu- ration has taken place, although under the above-mentioned practice, that were very large in their inflammation, but very small in their sup- puration, which I imputed to the patient’s having taken mercury in the before-mentioned way, both before and while suppuration was going on. It has been disputed more in this kind of abscess than in others whe- ther it should be opened or allowed to burst of itself; and likewise whether the opening should be made by incision or caustic. There appears to be nothing in a venereal abscess different from any other to recommend one practice more than another. The surgeon should in some degree be guided by the patient. Some patients are afraid of caustics, others have a horror of cutting instruments; but when it is left wholly to the surgeon, and the bubo is but small, I sup- pose a slit with a lancet will be sufficient: in this way no skin is lost. But when a bubo is very large, in which case there is a large quantity of loose skin, perhaps the caustic will answer better, both on account of its destroying some skin, and because the destruction is attended with less inflammation than what attends incision. If done by a caus- tic, the lapis septicus is the best* ; but it is not necessary to open every bubo, and perhaps it may be difficult to point out those where opening would be of service or necessary. • I once opened two buboes in the same person, one immediately after the other. The first was with the lapis infernalis, which gave him considerable pain, and therefore he would have the other opened with a lancet, as the pain would only be momentary, lint it was great, and the soreness continued long, while there was no pain in the other, deadened by the caustic, after it had done its business.