40 THE NATURAL HISTORY slight, for it can always be separated from it without any apparent vio- lence, nor are there any vessels going from the one to the other; the place, however, where it is most strongly attached is round the edge of the bony part, which is the last part formed. When the bone has co- vered all the pulp, it begins to contract a little and becomes somewhat rounded, making that part of the tooth which is called the neck ; and from this place the fangs begin*. When the fangs form, they push up the bodies of the teeth through the sockets, which waste, and after- wards through the gum, which also wastes, as has been explained upon the cutting of the teeth; for before this time the rising of the teeth is scarce observable, as the pulp was at first nearly of the size of the body of the tooth itself, and wasted nearly in proportion to the increase of the whole ossification. The pulp has originally no process answering to the fangf ; but as the cavity in the body of the tooth is filled up by the ossification, the pulp is lengthened into a fang. The fang grows in length and rises higher and higher in the socket till the whole body of the tooth is pushed out. The socket at the same time contracts at its bottom and grasping the neck or beginning fang, adheres to it and rises with it, which contraction is continued through the whole length of the socket as the fang rises ; or the socket which contained the body of the tooth, being too large for the fang, is wasted or absorbed into the constitution, and a new alveolar portion is raised with the fang ; whence in reality the fang does not sink or descend into the jaw. Both in the body and in the fang of a growing tooth, the extreme edge of the ossification is so thin, transparent, and flexible, that it would .appear rather to be horny than bony, very much like the mouth or edge of the shell of a snail when it is growing; and indeed it would seem to grow' much in the same manner 1, and the ossified part of a tooth would seem to have much the same connexion with the pulp as a snail has with its shell. As the tooth grows, its cavity becomes gradually smaller, especially towards the point of the fang. In tracing the formation of the fang of a tooth we hitherto have been supposing it to be single, but where there are two or more it is somewhat different and more complicated. When the body of a molaris is formed, there is but one general ca- vity in the body of the tooth, from the brim of which the ossification is to shoot, so as to form two or three fangs §. If two only, then the opposite parts of the brim of the cavity of the tooth shoot across where the pulp adheres to the jaw, meet in the middle, and thereby divide • PI. VIII. f. 13, 14, 15. • t PI. VIII. f. 1, 4,5, 6. J PI. VIII. f. 13, 14, 15. § PI. VIII. f. 13, A, A.