480 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. opinions respecting the nature of a disease. It is given as drawn up by himself for my opinion. “ ‘ In May, 1789, when in London, I was unhappy enough to have connection with a woman of the town. Five days after I took more than usual exercise, and the day being warm I perspired profusely. This affected my head, more particularly my fore- head. In this situation I went into the country, and while on the road the sweating increased; when it went off it left a burning heat about the forehead, so that I could , not wear my hat. This heat continued all night, attended with an external pain round the forehead. The next day it increased, but the day after its violence seemed to lessen; but it continued more or less for several weeks. On my return home I was connected with my wife. “ ‘ My mind became so much agitated that I found it impossible to be at peace till I unfolded my situation to a surgeon and apothecary. “ ‘ I began to fear that those affections of the head might arise from disease. The surgeon seemed to apprehend no danger. I pressed him to give me some opening draughts, to carry off the inflammation about the head, and flattered myself that they would also carry off any virus that I had contracted. Notwithstanding this, I still, however, found some of those disagreeable sensations, together with an uneasiness in the throat and teeth. “ ‘ All this time there was nothing more than usual in the genital parts, but a degree of heat not felt or observed before. “ ‘ I now conceived that this heat was increasing. By a constant and minute in- spection, I found the size of the penis at times to diminish; the nut assumed a pale yellowish colour, and the glands behind the nut seemed to be covered with mucus. The heat about the head diminished; the throat and teeth felt more uneasy. “ ‘ In the course of a fortnight after my return I persuaded my apothecary to give me small doses of calomel. For the first few days they worked me very violently. The quantity of calomel was then lessened. All this time I felt no discharge of any kind, but after taking those medicines a few days 1 felt some heat and pain in the groin, and the penis seemed at times hot, and I felt some shooting pains about the head. “ ‘ A fortnight completed this course, and now I entered upon some alteratives. While taking them my throat seemed to get worse and worse, but more so towards night. “ ‘ Six weeks after the connection I was pronounced well, and left off all medicines, “ ‘ Soon after this, in the mornings, prior to my making water, I perceived a small quantity of a whitish discharge on the opening of the lips of the urethra; never in quan- tity so large as a pea, and never but in the morning. I was induced to try what stain this would give to clean linen: it left a greenish spot. This was immediately commu- nicated to the surgeon, who bid me think nothing of it, assuring me it was of no con- sequence. “ ‘ My mind was too unhappy to remain satisfied in this state, or with those assu- rances; I therefore had the advice of a physician. “ ‘ He said if I was affected it was in a very small degree, and that there was no pos- sibility of my injuring my wife. Notwithstanding which, he thought 1 had better take some medicines, which he would prescribe, for a fortnight, and then go on with strength- ening remedies. I now began taking these medicines. I took a large tea-spoonful of an electuary three times a day; my throat soon began to feel better; after the fort- night the strengthening plan was begun. it ‘ Those medicines being left off, my throat became uneasy, as before; once or twice I discovered a discharge from the urethra, which was quite clear, and more glutinous than my water. This I always found was after erections. « « The strengthening medicines were continued about a fortnight. My throat felt