SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 249 CHAPTER IV. OF STRICTURE ATTENDED WITH SPASMODIC AFFECTION. There are very few strictures that are not more or less attended with spasms; but some much more than others, the spasm being in some cases more the disease than the stricture itself. But real strictures are attended with occasional contractions, which make the passing of the urine much more difficult at one time than another. In all the cases that I have seen of this kind, when not attended with spasms the disease is not formidable ; but when the parts are in a spasmodic state the sym- ptoms are as violent as in the simple stricture. As this is a mixed case, it has all the characters both of the perma- nent and spasmodic stricture ; for the urethra in such circumstances is in a state similar to what it is in the true spasmodic kind, being very irritable, giving great pain in the passing of the bougie, and often re- jecting it altogether: as will be taken notice of when we shall treat of that disease. Upon considering this subject, we should at first hardly be disposed to believe that the spasm in the urethra is in the strictured part, which can scarcely be supposed capable of contraction ; and it might therefore naturally be referred to the sound part of the urethra, as being brought on by the waters not flowing freely. If this is a just mode of account- ing for it, we must suppose that the contraction is behind the stricture, that being the only part dilated by the water; and such urethras being very irritable, that part may contract so as to stop the flowing of the water altogether. But some circumstances that occur in practice give reason to believe that such strictures have the power of contraction ; for we find the bougie grasped by the stricture when allowed to remain some time, and the circumstance of the strictured parts refusing the bougie at times is also a proof of the same. There is sometimes this singular circumstance attending these cases, that when there arises a gonorrhoea, or any other discharge of matter from the urethra, or an increase of an old gleet, the passage becomes free and allows the urine to pass as usual; but such relief is uncertain and only temporary, for whenever the discharge ceases the spasmodic affec- tion returns. I think it is probable that it is only the spasm that is affected by the discharge, and not the real stricture. Two remarkable cases of this kind fell under my observation, which I shall now relate.