OF CHANCRE. 350 spreading so fast, nor so far; they are not so painful, nor so much in- flamed, and have not those hard bases that the venereal sores have, nor do they produce buboes. Yet a malignant kind of them, when they attack a bad constitution, may be taken for a mild kind of chancre, or a chancre in a good constitution*. Some stress is to be laid upon the account that the patient gives of himself; but when there is any doubt, a little time will clear it up. I have seen the same appearances after a gonorrhoea, but that more rarely happens. It would appear that the venereal poison could leave a dis- position for ulceration of a different kind from what is peculiar to itself. I knew one case where they broke out regularly every two months, ex- actly to a day. As they are not venereal, their treatment becomes difficult; for the cure consists more in preventing a return than in the healing up of the present sores. They require particular attention; for although they are not dangerous, they are often troublesome, keeping the mind in suspense for months. I have tried a great variety of means, but with little success; yet they have in general got well in the end. In the following case, the lixivium saponarium produced a speedy cure. A gentleman had three sores broke out on the prepuce, which had very much the appearance of mild chancres. As I was doubtful of their nature, I waited some time, and only ordered them to be kept clean. As they did not get well, several things were tried. Mercurial dress- ings were applied, but they always produced considerable irritation, and it was necessary to leave them off. The mercurius calcinatus was given by way of trial, and to secure the constitution, but the sores continued the same. They were eat down with the lunar caustic, which appeared to have a better effect than any other thing tried ; but still they were not healed at the end of five months. I ordered forty drops of the lixivium saponarium to be taken every evening and morning in a bason of broth. After using it three days he observed a considerable alteration in the sores, and in six they were perfectly skinned over. He had formerly had such sores often, which had always been treated as venereal; but he began to doubt whether they really were so, from their getting so soon well in the present instance by the lixivium. I knew a gentleman who had these sores breaking out and healing again for years. By bathing in the sea for a month or two, they healed up, and never afterwards appeared. * Added : “ I have seen several that have puzzled me extremely.”—Howe.