211 OK GONORRHOEA. of service. This symptom is indeed often longer in going off than either the running or pain; but no bad consequences arise from it. Its declension is gradual and uniform, as happens in most consequences of inflammation. In relieving the chordee, or the remains of it, which appear to arise from spasm, I have known the bark of great service. Evacuations, whether from the part or from the constitution, generally do harm. §. 4. Of the Treatment of the Suppuration of the Glands of the Urethra. Suppurations in the glands of the urethra are to be treated as chan- cres. Therefore mercury ought to be given, as will be explained here- after. Should a suppuration take place in Cowper’s glands, it demands more attention. The abscess must be opened freely and early, as the matter, if confined, may make its way either into the scrotum or urethra, whence would arise bad consequences. Here also mercury must be given, and perhaps as freely as in a bubo. In short, the treatment should be the same ag in a venereal ulcer; and in this respect it will differ from the treatment of those abscesses which arise in consequence of stricture.® §.5. Of the Treatment of the Affection of the Bladder from Gonorrhoea. When the disease extends as far as the bladder, it produces a most troublesome complaint, from which, however, bad consequences seldom arise. But I suspect that it sometimes has laid the groundwork of future irritation in that part, which has proved very troublesome and even dan- gerous. Opiate clysters, if nothing in the constitution forbid the use of them, procure considerable temporary relief. The warm bath is of service, although not always; and bleeding freely, if the patient is of a full habit, often does good. Leeches also, applied to the perineeum, have good effects. But in many constitutions bleeding will rather do harm; and we should be cautious in making use of this evacuation, for it has 0 [Experience doc? not confirm this doctrine. Suppurations in the glands of the urethra are not very uncommon in gonorrhoea, yet they heal readily without the use of mercury; uor are they ever followed by secondary symptoms.] p 2