SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 279 Besides this effect of the lateral parts swelling, a small portion of it, which lies behind the very beginning of the urethra, swells forwards like a point, as it were, into the bladder, acting like a valve to the mouth of the urethra, which can be seen even when the swelling is not consider- able, by looking upon the mouth of the urethra from the cavity of the bladder in a dead body. It sometimes increases so much as to form a tumour*, projecting into the bladder some inches. Ihis projection turns or bends the urethra forwards, becoming an obstruction to the passage of a catheter, bougie, or any such instrument; and it often raises the sound over a small stone in the bladder, so as to prevent its being felt. The catheter should for this part be more curved than is necessary for the other parts of the urethra. In such cases I have fre- quently passed first a hollow elastic catheter till it has reached this point, and afterwards a stilet or brass wire properly curved, so as to go over the prostate gland. The advantages of this method are, that if the hollow catheter passes, no more is necessary; and, if it does not, the curved wire will pass along the hollow bougie much easier, both to the surgeon and patient, than it would have done if it had been introduced at first with the hollow bougie over it; for it would endeavour to adapt the urethra to the curve; whereas, when introduced afterwards, the stilet acts only on the inside of the hollow bougie, which the patient hardly feels. ' A gentleman had been often sounded for a stone, and yet no stone could be found; but it afterwards appeared that there was a stone, which, together with the swelling of the prostate gland, had been the cause of his death. John Doby, a poor pensioner in the Charter-house, had been several years afflicted with the stone in the bladder, and was relieved from all the symptoms by an enlargement of this part of the prostate gland, preventing the stones from falling down upon the neck of the bladder and irritating those parts. A twelvemonth after that the symptoms of the stone had gone off, he was attacked with a strangury, to relieve which many ineffectual attempts were made, both with the bougie and catheter; but it soon proved fatal. Upon examination of the parts in the dead body, the prostate gland was found enlarged to a size six times greater than what it is in common, and the urethra, passing through it, was a slit about an inch and half in length, the two sides of which were close together, the upper end towards the pubes and the lower towards the rectum. This slit was formed by the sides of the prostate gland only swelling, and the right side was the most enlarged, having its sur- * Vide Plates XIII. and XV.