OF GON OUR IKEA. 173 tion takes place, which opens a way into the urethra; but this open- ing soon closes up and occasions a return. Cowper’s glands have been suspected to inflame, and hardness and swelling have been felt exter- nally very much in the situation of them, which, coming to suppuration, have produced considerable abscesses in the perinaeum. These tumours break either internally or externally, and sometimes in both ways, mak- ing a new passage for the urine, called fistulse in perinaeo. A soreness is often felt by the patient all along the under side of the penis, owing to the inflamed state of the urethra. This soreness often extends as far as the anus, and gives great pain, principally in erections ; yet it is different from a chordee, the penis remaining straight. Erections are frequent in most gonorrhoeas. These, arising from the irritation at the time, often approach to a priapism, especially when there is the above-mentioned soreness, or when there is a chordee. Priapisms often threaten mortification in men; and I have seen an instance of it in a dog. The erection never subsided, and the glans penis could not be covered by the prepuce, from the swelling of the bulb. The penis mortified and dropped off; the bone in it was denuded, and an exfoliation followed. As opium is of great service in priapism, there is reason to suppose the complaint is of a spasmodic nature. §. 7* Of the Discharge. The natural slimy discharge from the glands of the urethra is first changed from a fine transparent ropy secretion to a watery, whitish fluid ; and the natural exhaling fluid of the urethra, which is intended for moist- ening its surface, and which appears to be of the same kind with that which lubricates cavities in general, becomes less transparent; and both these secretions becoming gradually thicker, assume more and more the qualities of common pus. In some cases of gonorrhoea, the glands that produce the slime which is secreted in consequence of lascivious ideas, are certainly not affected ; for I have seen cases, when, after the pas- sages had been cleared of the venereal matter by making water, the pure slime has flowed out of the end of the penis on such occasions. When this matter is more in quantity than what lubricates the urethra, it is forced out of the orifice by the peristaltic action of that canal, and appears externally*. * That the urethra has considerable powers of action is evident in a vast number of instances; and that action is principally from behind forwards. YVc find that a bougie may be worked out by the action of the urethra. This action, I believe, is often in- verted, as in spasmodic stranguries.