288 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. water can flow, which will allow the cause of the obstruction to exert again its full force ; and if the spasm should not now exist, yet the bougie will not answer, unless there be a power of action in the blad- der ; for it is with difficulty that the urine can be made to pass through the urethra, by pressing the abdomen only. When the catheter is passed, it will be necessary to make the patient strain with his abdominal muscles, as also with his muscles of respira- tion, to squeeze out the water, the bladder having no power of con- traction, and even this will not be sufficient, for it will be necessary to press on the region of the pubes, with the hand, to make the water flow. In cases where there is a considerable degree of debility in the blad- der, or in those cases where there is a considerable strangury and of long standing, and where a small quantity of urine in the bladder gives the stimulus of fulness to that viscus, which is always attended with considerable urgency to make water, and w here only very small quan- tities are evacuated, the bladder not being emptied at each time of making it, and when a catheter, either rigid or flexible, can with readi ness be passed, the question is. What is the best way upon the whole to evacuate the water ? There are three ways in which it can be done, one, by allowing the parts to do their own business as much as they can, and this at first sight might be supposed to be the very best; but it is in some cases the very worst; for the frequency of the inclination to make water, arising from the wrater not being wholly evacuated each time, the evacuation not readily taking place, increases the effort, and for a few minutes produces excruciating pain, keeping up a considerable and almost constant irritation in all those parts, which few can bear. Another method is, to draw off the water each time with a catheter, but this in many cases is next to impracticable ; for supposing the operation to be performed only twice or three times in the day, we shall find that this is oftener than what should be done. The third method is, to leave the catheter almost constantly in the bladder. Which of these three methods is likely to give, on the whole, the least irritation must depend upon circumstances attending different cases. Where the frequency and the urgency is great, and the flowing of the water difficult, either the second or the third is to be pursued ; and when the symptoms are such that a catheter must be passed very often, I believe it had better be left in, only taking it out occasionally. I think this is supported by observation and experience. It sometimes happens in cases of swelled prostate gland, that the catheter cannot be passed without the utmost difficulty, and when this has been the case I have left it in the bladder, for fear of not being