OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 23 In the upper jaw they are broader and thicker, especially the two first: their length is nearly the same with those of the lower jaw. They stand a little obliquely, with their bodies turned much more forwards (the first especially), and they generally fall over those of the under jaw. The two first incisores cover the two first and half of the second of the lower jaw, so that the second incisor of the upper jaw covers half of the second incisor and more than half of the cuspidatus of the under jaw*. The edges of the incisores, by use and friction, in some people become blunt and thicker; and in others they sharpen one another, and become thinner. Of the Cuspidatus. The cuspidatus is the next after the incisores in each jaw, so that there are four of them in all. They are in general thicker than the incisores, and considerably the longest of all the teethf. The shape of the body of the cuspidatus may be very well conceived by supposing an incisor with its corners rubbed oft', so as to end in a narrow point instead of a thin edge \; and the fang differs from that of an incisor only in being much larger ยง. The outside of the body of a cuspidatus projects most at the side next the incisores, being there more angular than anywhere else. The enamel covers more of the lateral parts of these teeth than of the incisores. They stand perpendicularly, or nearly so, projecting further out in the circle than the others, so that the two cuspidati and the four incisores often stand almost in a straight line, especially in the lower jaw. This takes'place only in adults, and in them only when the second teeth are rather too large for the arch of the jaw; for we never find this when the teeth are at any distance from one another, or in young subjects. Their points commonly project beyond the horizontal plane formed by the row of teeth, and their fangs run deeper into the jaws, and are oftener a little bent. In the upper jaw they are rather longer, and do not project much beyond the circle of the adjacent teeth; and in this jaw they are not placed vertically, their bodies being turned a little forwards and out- wards. When the jaws are closed, the cuspidatus of the upper jaw falls be- tween and projects a little over the cuspidatus and first bicuspis of * Pi. II. f. l. X PI. III. f. 1, at bb. f PI. III. f. 4.; Plate V. row 1, b. ยง PI. III. f. -1.