342 OF CHANCRE. one. A large chancre therefore may he deprived of its venereal action long before it is skinned over; but a small one may probably skin over before the venereal poison is entirely subdued. In the latter case, both on account of the chancre and constitution, it will be erring on the safe side to continue the medicine a little longer, which will most certainly in the end effect a cure; for we may reasonably suppose that the quan- tity of mercury capable of curing a local effect, although assisted by local applications, or of producing in the constitution a mercurial irri- tation sufficient to hinder the venereal irritation from forming, will be nearly as much as will cure a slight lues venerea. I have formerly laid it down as a principle, that no new action will take place in another part of the body, however contaminated, whilst the body is under the beneficial operation of mercury; but there are now and then appearances which occur under the cure that will at first embarrass the practitioner. I have suspected that the mercury flying to the mouth and throat has sometimes produced sloughs in the tonsils, and these have been taken for venereal. The following cases in some degree explain this. A young gentleman had a chancre on the prepuce, with a slight pain in a gland of one groin, for winch I ordered mercurial ointment to he rubbed into the legs and thighs, especially on the side where the gland was swelled, and the chancre to be dressed with mercurial ointment. While he was pursuing this course the chancre became cleaner, the hardness at the base went off, and the pain in the groin was entirely removed. About three weeks after the first appearance of the disease he was attacked with a sore throat, and on looking into the mouth I found the right tonsil with a white slough, which appeared to be in its substance, with only one point yet exposed. From my mind being warped by the opinion that these complaints proceeded from the chancre, I immediately suspected that it was venereal; and the only way that I could account for this seeming contradiction, in one part healing w'hile another was breaking out, was, that the healing sore w>as treated locally as well as constitutionally, W'hile the tonsil, or the constitution at large, wras only treated constitutionally, which was insufficient. Soon after this another gentleman was under my care for venereal scurfs, or eruptions on his skin, for which he used mercurial friction till his mouth became sore ; and in this state he continued for three W’eeks, in which time the eruptions w'ere all gone, discolourations being left only where the eruptions had been, yet at the end of three weeks a slough formed in one of the tonsils, exactly as in the former case. This made me doubtful how far such cases w'ere venereal. I ordered the