OF GONORRHOEA. 2 1 5 the case with those in whom it has returned soon after the going off of the symptoms, I will not pretend to say; but I should very much sus- pect that, where the patient has continued well for a month, a return cannot be venereal. This is only conjecture : and if we were to reason upon it we might easily reason ourselves into a belief of its being vene- real ; for if the parts can fall back again into one mode of action, that of inflammation and suppuration, there can be no reason why they should not fall back again into the specific mode of action. However, as the common effect of irritation is suppuration, and as the specific suppuration requires a peculiar irritation, it is easier to conceive that the parts may fall into the common mode of action than into both. It is possible, however, that in such cases the venereal action may be only suspended, similar to what happens between the contamination and com- plete appearance of the disease. In women, returns of the symptoms are more frequent than in men, particularly of the discharge; which being similar to the ttuor albus, and frequently taken for that disease, gives less suspicion, although they are perhaps equally virulent as those in men. The distinction between a gonorrhoea and a gleet is not yet ascer- tained : for the inflammation subsiding, the pain going off, and the mat- ter altering are no proofs that the poison is destroyed. It is no more necessary that there should be a continuance of the inflammation to pro- duce the specific poison than that there should be a continuance of the inflammation to produce the gleet, as will appear evident from two cases before related*. The first of these cases shows that the inflammation is not necessary to the existence of the venereal poison ; and, on the contrary, the inflamma- tion may exist after the matter discharged has ceased to be venereal. I have known cases where the inflammation and discharge have continued for twelve months, and with considerable violence : in the mean time a free intercourse with women has not communicated the disease. How- ever, this is not an absolute proof that there is no virus in the discharge. * Vide pages 106 and 107.