278 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. for although authors talk of caruncles as common, and give us the me- thod of treatment, yet they have not told us how we are to distinguish them from strictures. I have never met with a caruncle in women. CHAPTER VIII. OF THE SWELLED PROSTATE GLAND. Another disease of the parts surrounding the urethra, which is often very formidable, is a swelling of the prostate gland. This is of more serious consequence than any of the former causes of obstruction, be- cause we have fewer methods of cure ; for we cannot destroy it as we do the stricture, nor can Nature relieve herself by forming new passages; we have, however, often the means of temporary relief in our power, which is not the case in the stricture; for most commonly we can draw off the water by the catheter. The swelling of the prostate gland is most common in the decline of life. The use of this gland is not sufficiently known to enable us to judge of the bad consequences that attend its diseased state, abstracted from swelling. Its situation is such, that the bad effects of its being swelled must be evident, as it may be said to make a part of the canal of the urethra, and therefore when so diseased as to alter its shape and size, it must obstruct the passage of the urine. When it swells it does not lessen the surface of the urethra at the part like a stricture; on the contrary, it rather increases it; but the sides of the canal are compressed together, producing an obstruction to the passage of the urine, which irritates the bladder and brings on all the symptoms in that viscus that usually arise from a stricture or stone. From the situation of the gland, which is principally on the two sides of the canal, and but little, if at all, on the fore part, as also very little on the posterior side, it can only swell laterally, whereby it presses the two sides of the canal together, and at the same time stretches it from the anterior edge or side to the posterior, so that the canal, instead of being round, is flattened into a narrow groove. Sometimes the gland swells more on one side than the other, which makes an obliquity in the canal passing through it.