OF THE LUES VENEREA. 395 mercury : this was not a venereal terminating in a scrofulous affection, for in such a view the scrofula must have cured the venereal. The ve- nereal disease would seem only to partake of the nature of such disorders as the constitution was previously disposed to, and may excite into ac- tion the causes of these disorders. The same observation and mode of reasoning holds equally good with respect to other diseases. The com- mon symptoms, however, of the lues venerea, though in some degree according to the constitution, are not so much so as cither in the chancre or the gonorrhoea; for the lues venerea is attended with very little in- flammation, which in general partakes much more of the nature of the constitution than any other diseased action. §. (>. Of the specific Distance of the Venereal Inflammation. I have already observed that many specific diseases, as also those arising from poison, have their local effects confined to certain di- stances, which I have called their local specific distance ; and it would appear, from observation, that the venereal irritation and inflammation, of whatever kind it may be, is guided by this principle ; for it seldom extends far beyond the surface that receives it; the neighbouring part not having a tendency to sympathize or run easily into this kind of in- flammation. This is the reason why we find a gonorrhoea for weeks confined to one spot in the urethra in men, and for months to the va- gina in women, not extending further in either. In chancres also the inflammation is confined to the seat of the sore without becoming so difi’used as when from common accidents. As a further proof of this fact, we find it is also confined to the glands of the groin, in cases of buboes, till matter is formed in them; which matter acts as a common irritator, and the specific is in some degree lost, and then the inflam- mation becomes somewhat more diffused, as happens in common inflam- mation. We also see that the same thing happens in venereal ulcers when they arise from the constitution : their size is at first but small, and they are merely local; but as the disease increases the size increases, but still they remain circumscribed, not becoming diffused. Perhaps all poisons and specific diseases agree in this property of having their in- flammation limited and circumscribed in a manner peculiar to them- selves ; for wre find that the inflammation of the smallpox, measles, and chickenpox is each circumscribed in its own way. From hence it must appear that the human body in general is not so susceptible of specific irritations as it is of the common, or what may be called the natural. But wc must also consider that the common inflammation in very healthy