455 OF THE LUES VENEREA. perhaps if we could raise such a constitutional irritation without danger, as we often can in local cases, we might cure the venereal disease in the same manner, and in one quarter of the usual time. Secondly, we find that mercury acts as an universal stimulus, causing great irritability in the constitution, making the heart beat faster, and rendering the arte- ries more rigid, so as to produce a hard pulse, as has been already ob- served. It may further be said to produce a disease, or a peculiar or unnatural mode of action, in a certain degree. The following case will illustrate this. A gentleman had electricity recommended to him for some complaint he had. The electricity was applied, but without any visible effect. Besides the complaint for which he used electricity, he had a venereal one, for which he was first put under a course of mer- cury, and while under it the electricity was applied for the former com- plaint ; but he had become so irritable that lie could not bear the shocks of one half their former strength. But the most curious part of the case was that the shocks had a much greater effect on the disease than what they had before when twice as strong, and he now got cured. This gave the surgeon a hint; and having another occasion to use elec- tricity, also without effect, he put the patient under a gentle course of mercury, and then found the same effects from the electricity as in the former case, and the patient also got well. The powers of mercury upon the constitution appear to be as the quant it}- of mercury and the susceptibility of the constitution to be affected with it, without any relation to the disease itself; and we find that the power of mercury upon the disease is nearly in the same pro- portion. This fact gives us an idea of the irritation of mercury upon the constitution, and consequently an idea of administering it, and of the cure of any disease for which it is a remedy. As we find that a given quantity of mercury produces double effects in some constitutions to what it does in others ; also, that in those cases it produces its effects upon the disease, we are ied to believe that it is this effect upon the constitution which cures the disease; and therefore if it did not produce this effect it would also not have performed a cure. I have already observed that the cure does not go on exactly in propor- tion to the visible effects upon the constitution, except quantity in the medicine is joined with it, which, if true, would incline us to believe that there was something more than simply a constitutional stimulus, which most probably is a peculiar specific effect which is not regulated entirely by its visible effects, cither constitutional or local, although they appear to have some connexion. This fact being known, obliges us to be more liberal in giving mer- cury in those constitutions where it makes but little impression, than