62 OF THE DISEASES the teeth in their most sound state receive little or no nourishment, we cannot refer it to that cause. It does not arise from any external injury, or from menstrua, which have a power of dissolving part of a tooth ; for anything of that kind could not act so partially: and we can observe in those teeth where the disease has not gone deep, that from the black speck externally there is a gradual decay or alteration leading to the cavity, and be- coming fainter and fainter. We may therefore reasonably suppose that it is a disease arising originally in the tooth itself; because when once the shell of the tooth has given way to the cavity, the cavity itself soon becomes diseased in the same way. That the disease spreads thus rapidly over the cavity as soon as the tooth has given way does not depend simply on the exposure; for if a sound tooth be broken by accident, so as to expose the cavity, no such quick decay ensues: how- ever, sometimes we find in those cases that exposure of the cavity will produce a decay, and even pain, similar to an original disease; and in the diseased tooth we find that the exposure has a considerable effect in hastening the progress of the disease ; for if the tooth be stopped so as to prevent its exposure to external injury, its cavity will not nearly so soon become diseased. Exposure, therefore, seems at least to assist the decay. How far a rotten tooth has the power of contaminating those next to it, I believe, is not yet completely ascertained; some cases seem to favour this idea, and many to contradict it. We frequently see two teeth rotten in places exactly opposite to each otheT, and as one of them began first to decay, it gives a suspicion that the last diseased was infected by that which received the first morbid impression. On the contrary, we often see one diseased, whilst another tooth, in contact with the decayed part, remains perfectly sound11. a [The reasoning which we find in the preceding section is not only inconclusive, but in many parts not wholly consistent with itself. Nor is it possible, with the vague notions entertained by Hunter, and even by some in the present day, who follow his words rather than his spirit respecting the peculiar character of the bony structure of these organs, to form a rational and consistent opinion on this difficult subject. I ox appears to have made an approach towards the truth; but by assuming the absolute identity of structure in the teeth and true bones, without taking into the account their remarkable and acknowledged discrepancies, he fell into the opposite error, of expect- ing to find in the morbid affections of the teeth the analogue of every disease to which the more highly organized bones are liable. The opinion that decay of the teeth is communicable by contact is now fast becoming obsolete. That we often sec two teeth becoming decayed “ at places exactly opposite to each other,” as observed by Hunter, is a matter of almost proverbial notoriety ; but it is not, I believe, difficult to account for this fact, without assuming a doctrine so inconsistent with all that is known ot the