244 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. been dissolved in the passage, which if left would irritate the parts. A little water injected into the urethra will answer the same purpose. About the year 1752 I attended a chimney-sweeper labouring under a stricture. He was the first patient I ever had under this disease. Not finding that I gained any advantage after six months’ trial with the bougie, I conceived that I might be able to destroy the stricture by escharotics*; and my first attempt was with red precipitate. I applied to the end of a bougie some salve, and then dipped it into red precipi- tate. This bougie I passed down to the stricture; but I found that it brought on considerable inflammation all along the inside of the pas- sage, which I attributed to the precipitate being rubbed off in passing the bougie. I then introduced a silver cannula down to the stricture, and through this cannula passed the bougie with precipitate as before. Not finding, however, that the patient made water any better, and not as yet being able to pass the smallest bougie through the stricture, I suspected that the precipitate had not sufficient powers to destroy it. I therefore took a small piece of lunar caustic, and fastened it on the end of a wire with sealing-wax, and introduced it through the cannula to the stricture. After having done this three times, at two days’ inter- val, I found that the man voided his urine much more freely. Upon the application of the caustic a fourth time, my cannula went through the stricture)-. A bougie was afterwards passed for some little time till he was perfectly well. Having succeeded so well in this case, I was encouraged to apply my mind to the invention of some instrument better suited to the purpose than the before-mentioned, which I have in some degree effected, al- though it is not yet perfectly adapted to all the situations of stricture in the urethra. The caustic should be prevented from hurting any other part of the canal; which is best done by introducing it through a can- nula to the stricture, making it protrude a little beyond the end of the cannula, by which it acts only upon the stricture. The caustic should be fixed in a small portcrayon. It js necessary to have a piece of silver of the length of the cannula, with a ring at one end, and a button at the other of the same diameter with the cannula, forming a kind of plug, which should project beyond the end of the cannula that enters the urethra, by which means it makes a rounded end; or the portcrayon may be formed with this button at the other end. The button being introduced into the cannula, it should be passed into the urethra, and when it reaches the stricture the silver plug should be withdrawn, and * Having lately looked over soine authors on this disease, I find that this is not a new idea. f Wiseman had the same idea, but probably the clumsy way in which he attempted to put it in execution might be the reason why he seems not to have pursued it.