292 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. surface of the bladder and produce ulceration there, and in time work its way into the rectum. To avoid this mischief, as also the inconveni- ences arising from its being too short, and the bladder slipping off from its end, I would recommend the tube to be made with a curve, and to lie with its convex side on the posterior part of the bladder, which being a large surface, and following nearly the same curve as the can- nula, less mischief is to be expected. The openings into the cannula may be made on the concave side. It would probably be both safer and easier for the patient, to have the curved end of the catheter introduced into the urethra from the bladder. The passing of it into the urethra is very practicable; and we know that such a body lying in the urethra is not productive of any mischief. A common catheter passed in this way enters so far as to bring the handle almost flat to the belly ; at most only a little bolster between the catheter and belly is necessary, and then with a piece of tape fixed to the handle of the catheter it might be fastened to the body; or a short catheter might be made with ears to fix the tape to*. In cases w’here the cannula has remained in the urethra some time, the artificial passage will become in some degree permanent, so that it may be taken out occasionally, and cleaned from any stony matter that may be attach- ed to it. To avoid this part of the operation it has been recommended to have two cannulas, one within the other, that by drawing out the inner it may be cleaned, and again introduced; but in most cases it will also be necessary to withdraw the outer one, as its external surface will contract a crust. The second method, or puncture by the anus, will more commonly admit of being performed than that above the pubes; for it does not require that distention of bladder which the other does, and is therefore not so often impracticable from that cause ; and perhaps the only obstacle here is a swelled prostate gland. In many of these cases of diseases of the urethra, the prostate gland is very much swelled, which I can con- ceive may make the proper place for the puncture very uncertain ; for the prostate gland, in such cases, will be pressed down towards the anus, before the bladder, and will be the first thing felt by the finger. Care must therefore be taken to distinguish the one from the other, which can only be done by getting the finger beyond the prostate gland, * Where this operation is performed in consequence of a stricture, I have conceived that by passing a catheter into the urethra from the bladder till it comes to the stric- ture, and then passing another straight cannula from the glans down the urethra, that the two may nearly meet, only having the stricture between them; and a piercer may be passed down and forced into the end of the one from the bladder, and afterwards either a bougie or hollow catheter introduced.