SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 235 happens in strictures that the passage is so diminished as hardly to al- low any water to pass, producing often a total stoppage; nor will a bougie immediately pass; and if it can be made to pass, yet no water follows it when withdrawn. In such cases therefore we must have re- course to the means that afford a temporary relief, such as the warm bath, which counteracts the effects of cold, and quiets any spasms that may have taken place in the parts, and clysters with opium, which have still more effect. Producing an evacuation by stool often lessens the spasm, for a spasmodic suppression of urine frequently arises from a constipation, even where there is no stricture. The cure by dilatation is, I imagine, principally mechanical when performed by bougies, the powers of which are in general those of a wedge. However, the ultimate effect of them is not always so simple as that of a wedge upon inanimate matter, for pressure produces action of the animal powers, either to adapt the parts to their new position, or to recede by ulceration, which gives us two very different effects of a bougie, and of course two different intentions in applying them; one to produce dilatation, the other ulceration, which last is not always so readily affected. It generally happens, as has been already observed, that the disease has gone considerable lengths before application has been made for a cure, and therefore the stricture has become considerable, in so much that it is often with great difficulty that a small bougie can be made to pass. If the case is such as will readily admit the end of a small bougie to pass, let it be ever so small, the ourc is then in our power. It often happens, however, that the stricture is such as will resist the passing of a small bougie at first, and even after repeated trials. Yet it is neces- sary to persevere with the small bougie, for sometimes it happens that the passage through the stricture is not in a line with the urethra itself, which of course obstructs the bougie; such strictures, I suspect, are not equally placed all round, so as to throw the small passage remaining into the centre of the canal. In many cases, where the stricture is very considerable, much trouble is given by occasional spasms, which will either resist the bougie alto- gether, or only let a very small one pass, though at another time they will admit one larger. In such cases I have been able to get the point of the bougie sometimes to enter, by rubbing the perinocum externally with the finger of one hand while I pushed the bougie on with the other. This, though it does not always succeed, yet is worth the trial. Whether it alters the position of the stricture, so as to give entrance to the point of the bougie, or by sympathy removes the spasm, I will not absolutely determine, but I believe it rather acts by sympathy. In