OF GONORRHOEA. 197 upon the venereal inflammation in the urethra than an irritation in the bowels arising from any other purgative. So little effect indeed has this medicine upon a gonorrhoea, that I have known a gonorrhoea take place while under a course of mercury sufficient for the cure of a chancre. Whether the gonorrhoea arose from the same infection that produced the chancre I cannot say; nor can it be easily determined in such cases. Men have also been known to contract a gonorrhoea when loaded with mercury for the cure of a lues venerea; the gonorrhoea, nevertheless, has been as difficult of cure as in ordinary cases. A gentleman committed himself to my care, on the 27th of June, for the cure of two chancres and a bubo. I dispersed the bubo; but as he disliked the unction, I was obliged to substitute mercurius calcinatus daily instead of it, giving two grains in the evening and one in the morn- ing. About the middle of July his mouth became sore, and the mer- cury was left off; we began its use again in a week, and he appeared to be quite well of his venereal complaints. I, however, continued the use of mercury, keeping his mouth sore; and on the 16th of August, while in this state, he had a connexion with a woman, both on that and the following evening, and in five days after a gonorrhoea appeared, and proved to be very violent.* The same general observations may be made with regard to the effects of diuretics, considered as evacuants. It is possible that specific medicines taken into the constitution (if we had such), and passing off by urine, might act upon the urethra in their passage through it. The balsams and turpentines pass off in this way, and become specifics for many irritations in the urinary passages ; but how far medicines which have the power of affecting particular parts when sound, or when under diseases peculiar to those parts, have also the powers of affecting a specific irritation in these parts, I know not; but do not believe they have any considerable powers in this way. It •is possible, however, that they may remove any attending irritation, although not the specific one. Diuretics have, nevertheless, their ad- vantages, for if they produce a greater quantity of water they do good ; but I believe this had better be effected by simple water, or water joined with such things as will encourage the patient to drink a good deal, as tea, syrup of cap'dlaire, orgeate, and the like. Astringents, although often given, yet have always been condemned by those who have called themselves the judicious and regular practi- tioners ; because, according to them, there is something to be carried * Added: “ Another gentleman, while under a course of mercury for the cure of chancres, had connexion with a woman before he left off the use of mercury, and in two days a gonorrhoea made its appearance."—-Home.