37 OF THE HUMAN TEETH. seoond sets of teeth. From what I can learn, the age at which this happens is generally about seventy. From this circumstance, and an- other that sometimes happens to women at this age, it would appear that there is some effort in nature to renew the body at that period. When this set of teeth which happens so late in life is not complete, especially where they come in one jaw and not in the other, they are rather hurtful than useful, for in that case we are obliged to pull them out, as they only wound the opposite guma. * [This account of the manner in which the permanent teeth are formed is exceed- ingly imperfect. The observations of Ur. Blake, (recorded first in his inaugural thesis, and afterwards published in English in an enlarged form,) first made known the process by which this extraordinary formation is produced. Subsequent investigations have confirmed the general views given by Blake, and I make no apology for offering the following account of the process, which is substantially the same as I have al- ready given in another work. The formation of the permanent teeth, although essentially proceeding upon the same general principle, and produced by means of similar structures as those by which the temporary ones are formed, differs in some very remarkable points from that pro- cess. The rudiments of the permanent teeth, instead of being original and independent, like those of the temporary, are, in fact, derived from them, and remain for a considerable time attached to and intimately connected with them. (See PI. VIII. f. 9,10, 11, 12.) At an early period in the formation of the temporary teeth, by a process which re- minds us of the gemmiparous reproduction in the lower grades, both of animal and vegetable life, the investing sac, or capsule, gives ofTa small process, a bud containing a portion of the essential rudiments, namely, the pulp, covered by its proper membrane. This constitutes the rudiment of the permanent tooth. It commences in a small thick- ening on one side of the parent sac, which gradually becomes more and more circum- scribed, and at length assumes a distinct form, though still connected with it by a pe- duncle, which is nothing more than a process of the investing sac. For a time the new rudiment is contained within the same alveolus with its parent, which is excavated by the absorbents for its reception, by a process almost unparalleled in the phenomena of physiology. It is not produced by the pressure of the new rudiment, as has been er- roneously believed, but commences in the cancelli of the bone immediately within its smooth surface, thus constituting what may be termed a process of anticipation. The new cell, after being sufficiently excavated, and as the rudiment continues to increase, is gradually separated from the former one, by being more and more deeply excavated in the substance of the bone, and also by the deposition of a bony partition between them; and at length the new rudiment is shut up in its proper socket, though still con- nected with the temporary tooth by the cord or process of the capsule already described, which has in the mean time been gtadually attenuated and elongated. The situation of each permanent rudiment when its corresponding temporary tooth has made its appearance through the gum, is beneath and a little behind the latter, and rather further from the centre of the jaw. From the preceding statement, then, it will be readily understood that the upper part of the new sac being, by means of the cord, connected with the gum, assumes, by and by, the same relation to that substance as that which the temporary rudiment, as before described, had originally sustained; whilst, from its substance being deeply imbedded in the jaw, the vessels and nerves which had entered into the composition of the new process of pulp in its first production, probably became so enlarged and modified in their structure as ultimately to form the true dental