254 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. rl he method of performing this operation is as follows. Pass a staff, or any such instrument, into the urethra as far as it will go, which will probably be to the bottom of the new passage, and that we may be cer- tain is beyond the stricture. Feel for the end of the instrument exter- nally, and cut upon it, making the wound about an inch long if the dis- ease be before the scrotum, and an inch and a half, or more, if in the perinaeum. If the new passage be between the urethra and the body of the penis, then you will most probably get into the sound urethra before you come to the instrument or new passage; if so, it is not ne- cessary to go further in order to get into the bladder, as we may be certain that this part of the urethra is behind the stricture. Having proceeded so far, take a probe, or some such instrument, and introduce it into the urethra, by the wound, and pass it towards the glans, which will be passing it forwards towards the stricture. If it meet with an obstruction there, we may be certain it is the stricture, which is now to be got through, and which will afterwards be easily enlarged. To com- plete the operation, withdraw the probe, and introduce in the room of it a hollow cannula forwards to the stricture; then take another can- nula and introduce it from the glans downwards till the two cannulas oppose each other, having the stricture between them, an assistant lay- ing hold of the urethra on the outside, between the finger and thumb, just where the two cannulas meet, to keep them in their places; then through the upper cannula introduce a piercer, which will go through the stricture, and pass into the lower cannula; this done, withdraw the piercer, and introduce a bougie into the same cannula in the same way, being careful that it passes into the lower cannula; then withdraw the lower cannula, and the end of the bougie will appear in the wound ; lay hold of the bougie there, and withdraw the upper cannula over the bougie, leaving the bougie in the urethra: now the lower end of the bougie is to be directed into the urethra leading on to the bladder, and pushed on to that viscus. It may be further necessary to lay the whole of the new passage open, that it may all heal up ; for it is possible that this new passage may often receive the bougie, to be applied in future, which would be troublesome, and might prove an obstruction to the cure. If the new passage be between the skin and the canal of the urethra, after cutting down to the instrument, you must go further on in search of the natural canal, and, when you have found it, introduce a probe into it towards the glans, to find the stricture; and when this is done go on with the operation as above described. The bougie must be left in the passage, and as it may be found diffi- cult afterwards to introduce another readily into the bladder, the longer