329 OF CHANCRE. considered ; but there is no one specific for the others, the treatment of which must vary according to the constitution. From hence we must see that no one kind of medicine joined with mercury will be likely to succeed in all cases, although the different pretended secrets are of this kind,some cases not requiring anything excepting mercury, others requir- ing a something besides, according to their nature, which in many cases it will not be an easy matter to find out from the appearances of the chancre itself, but winch must be discovered by repeated trials. Probably from the before-mentioned circumstances it is, that a chancre is in common longer in healing than most of the local effects from the constitutional disease, or lues venerea, at least longer than those in the first order of parts; and this is found to be the case notwithstanding that the cure of a chancre may be attempted both constitutionally and locally, while the lues venerea can in common only be cured constitu- tionally. It is commonly some time before a chancre appears to be affected by the medicine. The circulation shall be loaded with mer- cury for three, four, or more weeks before a chancre shall begin to se- parate its discharge from its surface, so as to look red and show the living surface, but when once it does change, its progress towards heal- ing is more rapid. A lues venerea shall in many cases be perfectly cured before chancres have made the least change. Upon the same principle some attention should be paid to internal medicines, and it should be considered whether weakening, strength- ening, or quieting medicines should be given; for sometimes one kind, sometimes another, will be proper. Chancres admit of two modes of treatment: the object of one is to destroy or remove them by means of escharotics or by extirpation, that of the other is to overcome the venereal irritation by means of the spe- cific remedy for that poison. I have endeavoured to show that chancres are local complaints : this opinion is further confirmed by their being destroyed or cured by merely a local treatment, llut in chancre, as well as in a gonorrhoea, it has been disputed whether mercury should ever be applied locally to them or not; some have objected to it, while others have practised it, and probably the dispute is not yet generally settled. Upon the general idea which 1 have endeavoured to give of lhe ve- nereal disease it can be no difficult task to determine this question. It is to be observed that in the cure of the chancres we have two points in view: the cure of the chancre itself and the prevention of a contamination of the habit. The first, or the cure of the chancre, is to be effected by mercury applied either in external dressings, or internally through the circula-