OF THE LUES VENEREA. 401 appeared upon his legs, and he had violent pains in his shin bones. By the order of a country surgeon, he rubbed in about an ounce of mercu- rial ointment, and had a slight spitting; the pain ceased, the spots dis- appeared, and in a month he again conceived himself to be well. This was in October 1781. In June, 1782, he had the influenza; about a fortnight afterwards his left eye inflamed, and he had a pain in the head, and a noise in his ears. Five days afterwards his throat became sore. Three weeks after the inflammation of his eye several pustules made then appearance near the anus. These symptoms remained till the 21st of August, when he came into St. George’s Hospital. He rubbed in strong mercurial ointment till his mouth became sore ; he sweated very much; the pain in his head remained, but the complaint in his eye, and about the anus, together with the sore throat, were totally removed. It appears that in this case some additional power was required to dispose the body more readily to exhibit venereal symptoms. That cold has a strong power of this kind we have allowed, which appears in this case to have been the first immediate cause; but a fever seems to have been equally effectual in producing the second return of the symptoms. Here was the venereal disposition in the constitution from April, 1781, the time he was cured of the local complaint, till June 1782, fourteen months after; and then it reappeared eleven months after that, which periods might have been longer, if it had not been called forth by the two circumstances of cold and fever. Let us consider how far this case corresponds with the opinion of the action being easier of cure than the disposition. The first action, that is, the chancres, were perfectly cured by the quantity of mercury he took at first, for they never recurred; but the venereal matter had pro- duced the disposition in the constitution, which was not cured by the same quantity of mercury, for blotches appeared three months after ; but all the parts that had taken on the disposition at that time had not then come into action, therefore only the parts which had come into action were cured by the second course of mercury, and the other parts which had not yet taken on the action went on with the disposition till the influenza (which happened eleven months after,) brought them into ac- tion. The first class of pocky appearances were perfectly cured by the second course of mercury, as the local had been cured by the first, for they never reappeared, not even with the second. The second set of pocky symptoms, we have observed, appeared to be perfectly cured by the third course of mercury. How far there may be a third set of pocky symptoms to come forth time can only tell. This case further proves, that sometimes the second set of symptoms appear first, and the first second ; and also shows the difference in times VOL. ii. 2 o