482 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. almost continually affected with pains in her teeth. This discharge lessened by de- grees. Her habit was always disposed to be costive, but more so when with child. This the doctor accounted for from her habit, her being with child, &c., and assured me that everything was perfectly natural, and that there was not the smallest appear- ance of anything arising from disease. About a month or more before she was brought to bed, those complaints in her teeth, ears, and head seemed to increase, a redness ap- peared over her eyebrows, where there was great pain, &c. “ 1 At this time I observed some little spots about her face, of a yellowish colour, one in her forehead, two or three less near her ears, &c., and some few on her arms. “ ‘At length she was brought to bed; had a fine child, perfectly healthy. Her teeth were still sore, the right side of her cheek so much so, that she could not bear it to be touched. Her left breast began now to be very troublesome, and the more so as the milk advanced. (In this breast she always complained of a pain from her first child, and sometimes she fancied she could feel a hard lump.) Both her nipples were veiy sore, were surrounded with little ulcerations; but the left was by far the worst, it was very painful to her to give suck; she was obliged to have her breasts drawn now and then. Her nipples got better by degrees, and she now tells me they are well. There was early after she had children a redness betwixt the breasts; but this also went off. “ ‘ There now seems a little redness on each side of her nose near her eyes, and some- times the tip and sides of her nostrils appear red. She says there is no pain. Her pain is now in the left gums, and extends through to the check. Her water is frequently very thick, and there is, very soon after it is discharged, an evident sediment in it. “ ‘ The infant is free from all appearances of disease, but at present is afflicted with the snuffles to a degree that exceeds anything of the kind that I ever saw in any ot our other children. 1 am always disposed to anticipate the worst, and it pains me very much, lest it should arise from this general source of evil. The child is hearty, thrives very well, sleeps well. Two children that are at home have now and then been poorly : in the corners of their mouths there was, for weeks, an evident excoriation, assuming a whitish colour. This, l think, is now gone. There seem some small pimples about the neck, very small, and there are two or three of these small spots about each of them ; and sometimes their noses are red and sore. Indeed my mind has been afflicted with an idea that I have by this unguarded act injured my whole house. My situation is truly wretched. I had made up my mind to take time by the forelock, to attack this disorder very early; but, alas! 1 am afraid, I have fallen into bad hands. “ ‘ This business involves a great variety of questions of the first importance to me. The questions, with their answers, must be referred to your better judgement. I will state two or three for our satisfaction. “ ‘ If my complaints arise from lues, is it possible for me to have injured my children by kissing them, sleeping, &c. ? “ ‘ If my wife’s discharge was venereal, would it not most likely have produced a similar one in me ? or, would not my having received the lues into my habit prevent it! .. Are those pains in the head, teeth, ears, &c. likely to arise from this cause ! If my wife’s nipples had been affected from the complaint, would the person that drew her breast be infected ? and if so, how long, and in what manner would her infection appear? Would the nipples have got well had this been the case Can the child s snuffles arise from this cause ? Can any part be injured by this complaint, without manifest inflammation, swelling, and discharge? “ ‘ I have only to add, that 1 pray you, Sir, to be good enough to give this complex and unhappy case every necessary attention. I should wish for effectual relief.’ "— Home.