THE NATURAL HISTORY 30 in mastication, for the upper jaw can only move with the other parts of the head. That the upper jaw and head should be raised in the com- mon act of opening the mouth or chewing, would seem, at first sight, improbable ; and from an attentive view of the mechanism of the joints and muscles of those parts, from experiment and observation, we find that they do not sensibly move. We shall only mention one ex- periment in proof of this, which seems conclusive. Let a man place him- self near some fixed point, and look over it, to another distant and im- moveable object, when he is eating. If his head should rise in the least degree he would see more of the distant object over the nearest fixed point, which in fact he does not. The nearer the fixed point is, and the more distant the object, the experiment will be more accurate and con- vincing. The result of the experiment will be the same if the nearest point has the same motion with the head, as when he looks from under the edge of a hat, or anything else put upon his head, at some distant fixed object. We may conclude, then, that the motion is entirely in the lower jaw; and, as we have already described both the articulation and the motion of the bone, we shall now explain the action of mastication, and at the same time consider the use of each class of teeth. With regard to the action of the teeth of both jaws in mastication, we may observe once for all that their action and reaction must be always equal, and that the teeth of the upper and lower jaws are com- plete and equal antagonists both in cutting and grinding. When the lower jaw is depressed, the condyles slide forwards on the eminences, and they return back again into the cavities when the jaw is completely raised. 'This simple action produces a grinding motion of the lower jaw, backwards on the upper, and is used when we divide anything with our fore teeth, or incisores. For this purpose the incisores are well formed: for as they are higher than the others, their edges must come in contact sooner; and as the upper project over the under, we find, in dividing any substance with them, that we first bring them opposite to one another, and as they pass through the part to be divided, the lower jaw is brought back, while the incisores of that jaw slide up behind those of the upper jaw, and of course pass by one another. In this way they' complete the division, like a pair of scissors, ami at the same time they sharpen one another. There are exceptions to this, for these teeth in some people meet equally', viz. in those people whose fore teeth do not project further from the gum, or socket, than the back teeth; and such teeth are not so fit for dividing : and in some people the teeth of the lower jaw are so placed as to come before those of the upper jaw. This last situation is as favourable for cutting as when the overlapping of the teeth is the