168 Of GONORRHfEA. It was impossible to say whether they had now the infection or not, for any trials upon themselves would prove but little, except one of them only had it so as to infect the other; but if both had it, no altera- tion could take place in either, as it could not be ascertained whether they had the disease or not; and as there -were suspicious symptoms in both, when joined with all the circumstances, I agreed with the attend- ing surgeon, that it wras most prudent to treat them as if actually af- fected with a gonorrhoea. If it is true, as is asserted in the Voyage round the World, that the venereal disease was carried to Otaheite, it shows that it can be long retained after all ideas of its existence have ceased; and when it is re- tained for such a length of time it is most probably in the form of go- norrhoea*. In like manner, a venereal bubo, if it could be kept a considerable time between the point of suppuration and resolution, would become in- dolent from habit, continue in that point of suspension, and remain perhaps almost incurable. Such, I think, I have seen. §.4. Of the Venereal Gonorrhoea. In treating of the seat, extent, and symptoms of gonorrhoea, I shall begin with such particulars as are constant or most frequent, and take them as much as possible in the order they become less so; for there is a considerable variety in different gonorrhoeas. §.5. Of the Seat of the Disease in both Sexes. The seat of this disease, in both sexes, is commonly the parts of ge- neration. In men it is generally the urethra, though it sometimes takes place on the inside of the prepuce and surface of tire glans. In women it is the vagina, urethra, labia, clitoris, or nymphse. The disease has its seat in these parts from the manner in which it is caught. But if we were to consider the surface of contact simply in men, we should naturally suppose that the glans penisf, or the orifice of the urethra, would be the first, or indeed the only parts affected ; yet most commonly they are not, for though there are cases where the glans is affected, and where the disease goes no further, I believe it seldom attacks the orifice of the urethra without passing some way along that * Vide page 143. t Inserted : “inner surface of the prepuce near to the glans."—livme.