83 OF THE TEETH after the manner above described (see page 80), by taking part in the inflammation, either from the same cause, or from sympathy. In such cases there is always a very considerable discharge of matter from the inside of the gum and alveolar process, which always takes the course of the tooth for its exit. In many of these cases we find that while the gums are ulcerating in one part, they are swelling and becoming spongy in another, and hanging loose upon the teeth; and this often takes place where there is no ulceration in any part. The treatment proper in this disease, where the gums become luxu- riant from a kind of tumefaction, is generally to cut away all the re- dundant swellings of the gum. I have seen several instances where this has succeeded; but still I am inclined to think that this is not the best practice; for it is not that an adventitious substance is thus re- moved, as in the case of luxuriant granulations from a sore, but a part of the gum itself is destroyed, in like manner as a part enlarged by inflammation may be reduced by the knife to its natural size; which would certainly be bad practice. I should suspect that the good arising from such practice is owing to the bleeding which takes place, espe- cially as I have found from experience that simply scarifying the gums has answered the same purpose. Where there are reasons for sup- posing it to arise from a peculiarity in the constitution, the treatment should be such as will remove this peculiarity. If the constitution is scorbutic, it must be treated with a view to the original disease. If scrofulous, local treatment, by grounding the parts, may do harm; but sea-bathing, and washing the mouth frequently with sea-water, are the most powerful means of cure that I know.11 ยง. 2. Catlous Thickenings of the Gums. The gums are also subject to other diseases, abstracted from their connexion with the alveoli and teeth, which do not wholly belong to our present subject. * [In the most severe cases of this disease which have ever come under the notice of the editor, after every other means had failed to produce any permanent benefit, the two remedies mentioned in the text, sea-bathing and washing the month with sea- water, have proved, as Hunter observes, the most powerful means of cure. It is very probable that the general tonic effect of change of air and of scene, and the absence of all the debilitating tendencies of close application to business and of a town residence j and town habits, may have greatly assisted the means alluded to; but there appears j also to have been much direct benefit derived from the local application of sea-water.]