OF CHANCRH. 373 glans is net denuded in coition so ns to have chancres deeper sented, then it may he necessary only to go ns far as the chancres extend. From the common situation of the chancre, this disease of the phi- mosis arises more commonly from the tumefaction of the parts ; and from the idea I have endeavoured to give of the inconveniences arising from this phimosis, where the chancres are placed behind the corona, pro- ducing a confinement of the matter behind the glans, slitting open the prepuce a little way cannot be sufficient, for in such cases it must be exposed to the bottom, or no good can arise from the operation. Although this operation will not take off the tumefaction of the pre- puce, so as to allow it to be brought back, yet it will allow of a free discharge of the matter, and also in some cases it will allow of dressings being applied to the sores, but not in all, for the tumefaction will not now allow more of an inversion of the prepuce than before, and in such the sores cannot have dressings applied to them. In many cases it will be found that so violent an operation is improper, for it often happens that, while the inflammation is so very considerable, there is danger of increasing it by this additional violence, of which mortification may be the consequence ; -while on the other hand there are cases where a freedom given to the parts would prevent mortifica- tion, so that the surgeon must be guided by the appearances and other circumstances. Besides these reasons for and against the operation arising from the disease itself, it will not always be consented to by the patients themselves, for some have such a dread of operations that they will not submit to cutting instruments ; however, in those cases where the matter is confined it will be absolutely necessary to have an opening somewhere for the discharge of it. This is often produced by the ul- cerative process going on on the inside, which makes an opening di- rectly through the skin, laterally, which affords a direction for the sur- geon : therefore the opening may be made directly into the cavity of the prepuce, through the skin, on the side of the penis, by a lancet; or a small caustic may be applied there, for which the lapis septicus is the most convenient. The opening will allow of the discharge of the matter, and also admit any proper wash to be thrown in. But this opening should not be a large one, as in many cases the consequence of this lateral opening proves very troublesome ; for from the tumefaction of the prepuce the glans is squeezed on all sides, and rather more backwards upon the body of the penis than in any other direction, by which means it is often forced through this opening, whereby the glans is directed to one side, and the prepuce to the opposite, having a forked appearance. Besides, this state of the parts tightens the skin of the penis round the root of VOL. |I. z