153 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. or some attending circumstance, which exposes them at one time or other to contract such diseases, and which, if avoided, would prevent their propagation. The itch, for instance, is generally caught by a species of civility, the shaking of hands; therefore the hand is most commonly the part first affected. And as the venereal infection is ge- nerally caught by the connexion between the sexes, the parts of gene- ration commonly suffer first. From this circumstance people do not sus- pect this disease when the symptoms are anywhere else, while they al- ways suspect it in every complaint of those parts. In the lower class of people, one as naturally thinks of the itch when there is an eruption between the fingers, as in young men of the vene- real disease whose genitals are affected; but as every secreting surface, whether cuticle or not cuticle, (as was explained before,) is liable to be infected by the venereal poison when it is applied to it, it is possible for many other parts besides the genitals to receive this disease. Therefore it appears in the anus, mouth, nose, eyes, ears, and, as has been said, in the nipples of women who suckle children affected by it in their mouths, which children have been infected in the birth from the diseased parts of the mother. CHAPTER III. OF THE DIFFERENT FORMS OF THE DISEASE. The venereal poison is capable of affecting the human body in two dif- ferent ways; locally, that is, in those parts only to which it is first ap- plied ; and constitutionally, that is, in consequence of the absorption of the venereal pus which affects parts while diffused in the circulation. Between the first and second kind, or the local and constitutional*, certain intermediate complaints take place in the progress of absorption ; these are, inflammations and suppurations, forming what are called bu- boes, in which the matter is of the same nature as that of the original disease. When the matter has got into the constitution, and is circulating • I have called this form of the disease constitutional; yet it is not strictly so, for every complaint in consequence of it is truly local, and is produced by the simple ap- plication of the poison to the parts.