OF THK VENEREAL FOISON. 141 has a gonorrhoea to liave connexion with a sound woman, provided that great care be taken to clear all the parts of any matter, by first syringing the urethra, making wruter, and washing the glans*". * The last sentence omitted.—Home. 1 [The omission of the last sentence in Sir Everard Home’s edition is not without reason, since the trutli of the doctrine is, to say the least, very questionable, and the practice which is deduced from it is undoubtedly most mischievous and reprehensible. The author’s doctrine is, that the virus resides in pus, or some such secretion, and hence he draws two practical conclusions: 1. That when there is no pus, or puriform secretion, the disease cannot be communi- cated. So that before the appearance of a gonorrhoea, or after the healing of a chancre, there is no possibility of infection. 2. That even when pus actually exists, yet if particular care be taken to remove it in the first instance, by very careful ablution, the individual may have connexion with a sound woman without danger of infecting her. The second conclusion cannot be too strongly reprobated. It is opposed to every day’s experience; and from the omission of the passage in Sir E. Home’s edition, it may be supposed that further observation had led the author himself to change his opinion before the termination of his life. The former position also is by no means free from danger, as will be seen by the following instances, which are far from singular: A married woman was seized with the usual symptoms of gonorrhcea, which greatly surprised her, as her husband was free from complaint. On questioning, however, the husband, he confessed that he had had connexion with a common girl about a week before his wife complained; but he positively asserted that he had had no discharge or uneasiness whatever, and certainly then showed no signs of disease. In about four days afterwards, that is to say, nearly a fortnight after the impure connexion, and a week after he must have communicated the disease to his wife, a gonorrhoeal discharge appeared on him. A gentleman, when absent from home, exposed himself to the hazard of infection. At the end of three days he returned home, and in about four days afterwards his wife had a gonorrhcea. On the tenth day after the connexion the gentleman first perceived a dis - charge, and the other symptoms of gonorrhcea. But it may be said, that though such cases show that the conclusion at which the author has arrived is practically unsafe, they by no means disprove the truth of the general principle on which it was founded. It may be said, that in these cases it is an error to suppose that there is no purulent secretion ; that in the very early stage of a gonorrhcea it is probable that the pus is too small in quantity to flow from the urethra; that it lodges in the lacuna*, and is washed out by the urine, and is thus concealed from observation, but that it not less really exists; and that the position therefore remains untouched,—that where there is no matter there can be no infection. However, there is another class of cases which go still further to throw doubts on the truth of this doctrine. A gentleman was exposed to infection when in London. A day or two afterwards he set off for Ireland, where his family resided. He made some stay at Cheltenham, and while there, there appeared on the inner prepuce two or three small indurations or tubercles. He showed them to a surgeon, who convinced himself that there was no ulceration, and did not believe the afFcclion to be venereal. After a short interval he returned to Ireland, these indurations still existing, and infected his wife, who suffered from primary sores. A gentleman had an induration on the penis, which remained after the healing of a