OF THE LUES VENEREA. 456 in those which it easily irritates; although in these last we must not be entirely regulated by its local effects, nor depend upon a commonly sufficient quantity, but be ruled by the sensibility of the constitution and quantity joined; for in those where the constitution appears to be very susceptible of the mercurial irritation, where small quantities pro- duce considerable local effects, it is still necessary to have quantity, al- though it is not so necessary to take the quantity in general that is sup- posed to be sufficient. We must be guided by the three following cir- cumstances, the disappearance of the disease, the quantity of irritation produced, and the quantity of the medicine taken. §. 13. Of Gum Guaiacum and Radix Sarsaparilla in the Ve- nereal Disease. I have hitherto only recommended mercury in the cure of the vene- real disease, and indeed it is the only medicine to be depended upon. However, as both the guaiacum and sarsaparilla have been recommended as powerful remedies in this complaint, I took a favourable opportunity of trying their comparative powers in the venereal disease upon the same person. The guaiacum* I found had considerable specific power over the dis- ease, consequently it may be of service in slight cases where it may be inconvenient or improper to give mercury on account of some other dis- ease. These cases, however, I have not yet ascertained: or it may be given in those cases where it is apprehended that the quantity of mer- cury necessary to subdue the disease would be too much for the consti- tution to bear, cases which sometimes occur. The sarsaparilla appeared to have no effect at all. I shall relate exactly the case in which their comparative powers were tried. A man came into St. George’s Hospital with venereal sores over almost his whole body: there were many excrescent sores in the arm- pits, some of which were about the size of a halfpenny; there were the same appearances about the anus, between the buttocks, along the pe- rinseum, between the scrotum and thigh, where those parts come in contact with one another. Those upon the skin in general had the common appearance. I ordered a poultice of the gum guaiacum to be applied to the sores in the right armpit; also a poultice of a strong de- coction of sarsaparilla and oatmeal, mixed, to be applied to the left armpit. These poultices were changed every day for a fortnight; the • The lignum guaiaci w as imported by the Spaniards from Hispaniola, as a cure for the venereal disease, in the year 1517, having been given to one of them by a native.