258 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. ยง.2. Of the Formation of a New Passage for the Urine. When the methods recommended above for the removal of stricture have either not been attempted or have not succeeded, Nature endea- vours to relieve herself by making a new passage for the urine, which, although it often prevents immediate death, yet, if not remedied, is pro- ductive of much inconvenience and misery to the patient through life. The mode by which Nature endeavours to procure relief is by ulceration on the inside of that part of the urethra which is enlarged and within the stricture. The ulceration commonly begins near or close to the stricture, although the stricture may be at a considerable distance from the bladder; therefore we must suppose that there is some circumstance besides the distension of the urethra by the urine, which determines the ulceration to a particular part. This circumstance most probably arises immediately out of its vicinity to the stricture, and may be called con- tiguous sympathy. The stricture is often included in the ulceration, by which it is removed, the disease cured, and a stop sometimes put to the further ulceration; hut unluckily this is not always the case. We may observe that this ulceration is always on the side next to the ex- ternal surface, as is common in abscesses. As this ulceration does not arise from preceding inflammation, and as it cannot be said that the urine acts exactly as an extraneous body, because it is in its natural passage, we find that there is but very little inflammation of the adhesive kind attending these ulcerations. We must allow, however, that the urine produces the ulcerative disposition here, like matter on the inside of an abscess, although not so readily. Whenever, therefore, the internal membrane and substance of the urethra are removed by absorption, the water readily gets into the loose cellular membrane of the scrotum and penis, and diffuses itself all over those parts, not having been previously united by the adhesive inflam- mation ; and as the urine has considerable irritating powers when ap- plied to the common cellular membrane, the parts inflame and swell. The presence of the urine prevents the adhesive inflammation from taking place; it becomes the cause of suppuration wherever it is dif- fused ; and the irritation is often so great, more especially in cases where the urine has been allowed to become very stale, that it produces mor- tification, first in all the cellular membrane, and afterwards in several parts of the skin, all of which, if the patient live, slough away, making a free communication between the urethra and external surface, and produce fistulae in perinaeo. We may observe, however, thnt the want of the adhesive inflarama-