SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORltHCEA. 307 From this account of the necessity of having the mind independent respecting the act, we must see that it may very often happen that the state of mind will be such as not to allow the animal to exert its natu- ral powers; and every failure increases the evil. We must also see from this state of the case, that this act must be often interrupted ; and the true cause of this interruption not being known, it will be laid to the charge of the body, or want of powers. As these cases do not arise from real inability, they are to be carefully distinguished from such as do; and perhaps the only way to distinguish them is to examine into the state of mind respecting this act. So trifling often is the circum- stance which shall produce this inability depending on the mind, that the very desire to please shall have that effect, as in making the woman the sole object to be gratified. Cases of this kind we see every day, one of which I shall relate, as an illustration of this subject, and also of the method of cure. A gentleman told me that he had lost his virility. After above an hour’s investigation of the case, I made out the following facts. That he had, at unnecessary times, strong erections, which showed that he had naturally this power; that the erections were accompanied with desire, which are all the natural powers wanted ; but that there was still a defect somewhere, which I supposed to be from the mind. I inquired if all women were alike to him ; his answer was, no; some women lie could have connexion with as well hs ever. This brought the defect, whatever it was, into a smaller compass ; and it appeared there was but one woman that produced this inability, and that it arose from a desire to perform the act with this woman well, which desire produced in the mind a doubt, or fear of the want of success, which was the cause of the inability of performing the act. As this arose entirely from the state of the mind, produced by a particular circumstance, the mind was to be applied to for the cure ; and I told him that he might be cured if he could perfectly rely on his own power of self-denial. When I ex- plained what I meant, he told me that he could depend upon every act of his will, or resolution ; I then told him, if he had a perfect confidence in himself in that respect, that he was to go to bed to this woman, but first promise to himself that he would not have any connexion with her for six nights, let his inclinations and powers be what they would, which he engaged to do, and also to let me know the result. About a fort- night after he told me that this resolution had produced such a total al- teration in the state of his mind that the power soon took place ; for in- stead of going to bed with the fear of inability, he went with fears that he should be possessed with too much desire, too much power, so as to become uneasy to him, which really happened ; for he would have been x 2