87 OK TFI K TEETH. made a rising in the cheek, which was supposed by every one that felt it to be a scirrhous tumour forming on the cheek; but it broke off and discovered what it was. This accumulation is very apt to begin during a fit of sickness, when the extraneous juices are allowed to rest; and perhaps the juices them- selves may have at this time a greater tendency to produce the incrust- ing matter. It may also arise from any circumstance which prevents a person from eating solids, whereby the different parts of the mouth have less motion on each other. Lying-in women are instances of this ; not to mention that the assistance of art in keeping the teeth clean is com- monly wanting under such circumstances. The adventitious substance, as was said before, is composed of mucus, or animal juices, and calcareous earth; the earth is attached to and crystallized upon the tooth, and the mucus is entangled in these cry- stals. The removal of this adventitious matter is a part in which the dentist ought to be very cautious; he should be perfectly master of the differ- ence between the natural, or original, tooth and the adventitious mat- ter ; and he should be sensible of the propriety of saving as much as possible of the tooth, and at the same time take pains to remove all that which is not natural. Many persons have had their teeth wholly spoiled by an injudicious treatment of them in this respect. As the cause of this incrustation is not either a known disease of the constitution or of the parts, but depends on a property of the matter secreted, simply as inanimate matter, the remedy of course becomes either mechanical or chemical. The mechanical remedies are friction, filing, and picking. The first is sufficient when the teeth are only beginning to be discoloured; or, when already clean, they may be thus kept clean. Various are the methods proposed: to wash them with cold water, and at the same time to rub them with a piece of cloth on the fore finger, has been thought sufficient by some; others have recommended the dust of a burnt cork, burnt bread, &c., with a view to act with more power on the adventitious matter than what can be applied by the means of a soft brush or cloth. In cases where this incrustation has been more considerable, powders of various kinds have been employed, such as tartar, bole, and many others. Cream of tartar is often used, which at the same time that it acts mechanically, has likewise a chemical power, and dissolves this matter. Other mechanical means are instruments to pick, scrape, and file off