148 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. it. It has been supposed by some that the poisonous quality of the mat- ter arises from a fermentation taking place in it as soon as it is formed. quently produce chancres in those men that are connected with them. Without ven- turing to give a positive denial to this statement, it may be suggested that its truth has seldom, if ever, been satisfactorily ascertained. The investigation of the surgeon has evidently been confined to the external parts. The interior of the vagina has not been examined : yet it is certain that chancres do occur here, though more rarely, so as to be discovered only by the use of a speculum. When to this consideration is added all the deception which is constantly practised in regard to sexual intercourse, it must be allowed that these statements are deserving of very little confidence. There still remains the experiment of John Hunter; and if such experiments were multiplied, it cannot be denied that they would be decisive. That in his case the sy- stem was infected with the venereal virus can scarcely be questioned; but it may be doubted whether the virus might not have been derived from some other source than inoculation with the matter of gonorrhoea. The chances of falling into error are so numerous, that such experiments should be frequently repeated. As it is, the case stands alone; opposed to the general course of experience, and opposed to a series of other experiments which rest on the authority of Mr. Beryamin Bell. The subjects were medical students, who instituted the experiments expressly with the view of de- ciding this question. They are thus related by Mr. Bell (Bell on Venereal Disease, vol. i. p. 439.): “ ‘ Matter,’ says one of these individuals, ‘ was taken upon the point of a probe, from a chancre on the glans penis before any application was made to it, and completely in- troduced into the urethra, expecting thereby to produce gonorrhoea. For the first eight days I felt no kind of uneasiness, but about this period I was attacked with pain in pass- ing water. On dilating the urethra as much as possible, nearly the whole ofa large chan- cre was discovered, and in a few days thereafter, a bubo formed in each groin. No discharge took place from the urethra during the whole course of the disease; but an- other chancre was soon perceived in the opposite side of the urethra, and red precipitate was applied to it as well as to the other, by means of a probe previously moistened for the purpose. Mercurial ointment was at the same time rubbed on the outside of each thigh, by which a profuse salivation was excited. The buboes, which, till then, had con- tinued to increase, became stationary, and at last disappeared entirely; the chancres be- came clean, and by a due continuance of mercury a complete cure at last was obtained.' “ The next experiment was made with the matter of gonorrhoea, a portion of which was introduced between the prepuce and glans, and allowed to remain there without being disturbed. In the course of the second day, a slight degree of inflammation was produced, succeeded by a discharge of matter, which in the course of two or three days disappeared. “ The same experiment was, by the same gentleman, repeated once and again, after rendering the parts tender to which the matter of gonorrhoea was applied; but no chancre ever ensued from it. “ Two young gentlemen, while prosecuting the study of medicine, became anxious to ascertain the point in question; with which view they resolved on making the following experiments, at a time when neither of them had ever laboured under either gonorrhoea or syphilis; and both in these and in the preceding experiment*, the matter of infection w as taken from patients who had never made use of mercury. « \ small dossil of lint soaked in the matter of gonorrhoea was by each of them in- serted between the prepuce and glans, and allowed to remain on the same spot for the space of twenty-four hours. From this they expected that chancres would be produced ;