OF CHAXCRE. 321 become affected. 1 have seen this sympathy extend over the whole pubes, and so strong, that touching the hairs gently on the pubes lias given disagreeable sensations, and even pain. In speaking of the local, or immediate effects of the venereal disease, I mentioned that they were seldom wholly specific, and that they par- took both of the specific and the constitutional inflammation ; and there- fore it is always very necessary to pay some attention to the manner in which chancres first appear, and also to their progress, for they often explain the nature of the constitution at the time. If the inflammation spreads fast, and considerably, it shows a constitution more disposed to inflammation than natural. If the pain is great, it shows a strong dis- position to irritation. It also sometimes happens that they begin very early to form sloughs; when this is the case, they have a strong ten- dency to mortification. These additional symptoms mark the constitution and direct the future mode of treatment. When there is a considerable loss of substance, either from slough- ing or ulceration, a profuse bleeding is no uncommon circumstance, more especially if the ulcer is on the glans; for it would appear that the adhesive inflammation does not sufficiently take place there to unite the veins of the glans so as to prevent their cavity from being exposed, and the blood is allowed to escape from what is called the corpus spon- giosum urethrae. The ulcers or sloughs often go as deep as the corpus cavernosum penis, where the same thing happens3. a [In this chapter the author has delineated with his usual sagacity and precision the true characters of a primary venereal sore. At least his description applies to a large majority of such cases. It is the more valuable as the points of distinction nrc not drawn merely from obvious appearances, which, though they strike the eye, are scarcely com- municable by language, but from the laws which govern the effects of the venereal virus, and the operation of which may be traced even where the appearances are dissimilar. Two consequences follow the application of the venereal virus, induration and ulcer- ation. These two consequences seem to be distinct and independent; since, though they generally exist in conjunction, they are sometimes found separate, one or the other of them being in some cases wanting. The induration, though not always so obvious as the ulceration, is on the whole more constant, more characteristic, more peculiar and distinct in its appearance. The author has therefore rightly directed the attention more especially to the thickening as a distinction of a primary venereal sore. The description given of this peculiar thickening by the author can scarcely be im- proved. It is “ very circumscribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the surrounding parts, but terminating rather abruptly.” It retains these characters through all its stages, though they may be sometimes partially obscured by other con- comitant circumstances. The thickening in general precedes the ulceration. The first effect of venereal con- tamination is to produce this peculiar change in the texture of the part; the second effect is to produce ulceration of the indurated portion. The character of primary ve- VOI,. II. Y