428 OF THE LUES VENEREA. rubbed in on the skin has no more effect than three or four taken by the mouth, it becomes a kind of proof that the bowels absorb it best; also, when dressing a small sore with red precipitate produces a saliva- tion, it shows that sores are good absorbing surfaces, especially too ■when we know that the lues venerea generally arises from a chancre. A patient with a stump which produced too much granulation was dressed with ointment containing a large proportion of red precipitate ; the sore was about the size of a crown piece. It very nearly brought on a salivation, and the patient was obliged to leave it off. A mulatto woman had upon her leg a very bad ulcer, which was about the breadth of two palms; it wras dressed with red precipitate mixed •with common ointment, which soon threw her into a violent salivation. A lady, in the month of December 1782, was burnt over the whole breast, neck, and shoulders, as also between her shoulders, on which parts deep sloughs were formed. The sores at first healed nearly up, and tolerably well for burns ; but they broke out anew and then became more obstinate. Seven months after the accident she came to London, with very large sores extending across the breast and upon each side to the shoulders ; they were extremely tender and painful. They con- tinued to heal for some time after she came to London ; but she became ill, having been affected with extreme irritability, loss of appetite, sick- ness, and throwing up of her food and medicines. At this time the sores again began to spread, and became very large. After having been two months in town with little advantage, I tried warmer dressings, as basilicon, to some parts, to see if any advantage would anse from such treatment, and it was found that these parts healed rather faster than the others; but the soreness was so great, even from the mildest dress- ings, that they could only be used in part. I next tried red precipitate mixed with the ointment; and, that it might increase the pain as little as possible, I ordered only ten grains to two ounces of the ointment. This appeared to agree better with the sores than the ointment alone ; and we were happy in having found a dressing which both hastened on the cure, and was easier than the former. But about the fourth or fifth dressing from beginning the use of the precipitate, she began to com- plain of her gums; the next day began to spit, and by the seventh or eighth day the mouth was so sore, and the spitting so consi era e a , upon considering the case, we began to suspect that it might proeeet from the red precipitate in the dressing. The gums, inside o the cheeks and the breath were truly mercurial. We immediately left off this dressing, except to a small comer, and had recourse to the former dress- ings In a few days the effects of the mercury abated, and the sores looked more healthy than ever, and we again began to dress part of the