330 OF CHANCRE. tion, or in both ways. 1'he second object, or preservation of the con- stitution from contamination, is to be obtained, first, by shortening the duration of the chancre, which shortens the time of absorption, and also by internal medicine, which must be in proportion to the time that the absorption may have been going on. If the power of a chancre to contaminate the constitution, or, which is the same thing, if the quantity absorbed is as the size of the chancre and the time of absorption, which most probably it is, then whatever shortens the time must diminish that power or quantity absorbed ; and if the quantity of mercury necessary to presen e the constitution is as the quantity of poison absorbed, then whatever lessens the quantity ab- sorbed must proportionally preserve the constitution. For instance, if the power of a chancre to contaminate the constitution in four weeks is equal to four, and the quantity of mercury necessary to be given inter- nally, both for the cure of the chancre and the preservation of the con- stitution, is also equal to four, then whatever shortens the duration of the chancre must lessen in the same proportion the quantity of the mer- cury ; therefore, if local applications along with the internal use of mercury will cure the chancre in three weeks, then only three fourths of the mercury is necessarily wanted infernally. Local applications therefore, so far as they tend to shorten the duration of a chancre, shorten the duration of absorption, which also shortens the necessity of the continuance of an internal course of mercury, all in the same pro- portion. For example: if four ounces of mercurial ointment will cure a chancre and preserve the constitution in four weeks, three ounces will be sufficient to preserve the constitution if the cure of the chancre can be by any other means forwarded so as to be effected in three weeks. This is not speculation, but the result of experience, and the destruc- tion of chancres confirms it”. §. 1. Of the Destruction of a Chancre. The simplest method of treating a chancre is by destroying or extir- pating it, whereby it is reduced to the state of a common sore or wound, and heals up as such. This only can be done on the first appearance of * [The author’s experience on this point seems to be at variance with that of others. It does not appear that in practice it is safe to make the period of the healing of the sore a measure of the length of the mercurial course. General experience would seem to show that a mercurial course for primary symptoms, even though it be commenced before the chancre has existed a week, cannot be continued for a less period than a month, without exposing the patient to imminent danger of a subsequent relapse, j