OF THE LUES VENEREA. 412 much enlarged ; for when the venereal inflammation attacks these parts, it appears to be always upon the surface, and it very soon terminates in an ulcer. These ulcers in the throat are to be carefully distinguished from all others of the same parts. It is to be remarked, that this disease, when it attacks the throat, always, I believe, produces an ulcer, although this is not commonly understood; for I have seen cases where no ulceration had taken place called, by mistake, venereal. It is therefore only this ulcer that is to be distinguished from other ulcers of these parts. This species of ulcer is generally tolerably well marked, yet it is perhaps in all cases not to be distinguished from others that attack this part, for some have the appearance of being venereal, and what are really vene- real resemble those that are not. We have several diseases of this part which do not produce ulceration on the surface, one of which is common inflammation of the tonsils, which often suppurates in the centre, form- ing an abscess, which bursts by a small opening, but never looks like an ulcer begun upon the surface, as in the true venereal; this case is pitting. This appearance is, however, in almost all cases delusive. It arises from the stain being situated deep in the substance of the cutis, and shining through the more superficial parts, which are transparent. These stigmata seem to characterize an earlier and more imperfect form of the preceding variety. There has been an attempt to form a tubercle, but the complaint has been arrested before the sebaceous gland has been fully involved. 3. Psoriasis and lepra.—Scaly eruptions are very common in venereal cases, but they differ little from those which occur from other causes. They appear generally in small circular spots, but they vary much in the degree of elevation, the size of the spot, and the depth of the colour; yet they never assume the copper tinge of the tubercle. The colour is rather sandy, and is in almost all instances nearly effaceable by pressure. The difference of colour, the superficial origin of these eruptions, and the total absence of ulceration in all forms and stages, sufficiently distinguish them from tubercles. 4. Rupia.—This eruption shows itself at first by a slight blush on the surface. Ge- nerally in a few hours, sometimes at a longer period, the cuticle at this part is elevated into a small blister, by the effusion of opake serum, which soon becomes purulent, and shortly afterwards concretes into a scab. The disease spreads by a process in all re- spects similar. Effusion lakes place under the cuticle at the edge, and the concretion of this effusion enlarges the diameter of the scab, and elevates it from the surface of the cutis. Hence the scab as it grows consists of a series of concentric layers, those towards the apex having been formed at the commencement of the disease, and being conse- quently small in size; those at the base, which have been formed by the latest effusion, being commensurate with the present size of the sore. The accumulation of the whole forms a cone, which projects like a horn when the extension of the ulcer has been slow, but has a wide base and comparatively a slight projection where the ulcer has rapidly enlarged. That rupia begins on the surface of the cutis is manifest, not only from the course of the ulcer, but also from the aspect of the cicatrix which it leaves. The sore most fre- quently heals first at the centre., an island of skin forming there while the edges are still