338 OF CHANCRE. the glans, acting there somewhat like a paraphimosis, and sometimes makes the whole prepuce mortify and drop off, which is often a lucky circumstance ; but if this is not the consequence, then amputation of the prepuce becomes necessary: however, this should not be done till all in- flammation is gone off, and the chancres are cured, when probably the tumefaction of the prepuce will have considerably subsided. A mortification of the prepuce is sometimes a consequence of chan- cres when attended with violent inflammation, even without any pre- vious operation; and 1 have seen cases where the glans and part of the penis have mortified, while the prepuce has kept its ground. But I should suspect in all such cases that there is some fault in the consti- tution, and that the inflammation is of the erysipelatous, not of the true suppurative kind. I have seen the mortification go so far as to remove the whole of the diseased prepuce, and the parts have put on so favourable an appearance that 1 have treated it as a common sore, and no bad consequences have happened. In this case the disease performed what is often recom- mended in other diseases of this part, that is, circumcision; but this is not always to be trusted to, for if absorption of the venereal matter has taken place previous to the mortification, a lues venerea will be the con- sequence, although the parts heal very readily. ยง.5. Of the Constitutional Treatment of Phimosis. In those cases where violent inflammation has attacked the seat of a chancre, producing phimosis, as before described, and often so as to threaten mortification, a question naturally occurs, what is to be done? Is mercury to be given freely to get rid of the first cause ? or does that medicine increase the effect while it destroys the cause ? Nothing but experience can determine this. I should incline to believe that it is necessary that mercury should be given, for I am afraid our powers to correct such a constitution, while the first cause subsists, are weak. However, on the other hand, I believe the mercury should be given sparingly, for if it assists in dis- posing the constitution to such symptoms we are gaining nothing, but may lose by its use. I therefore do suppose that such medicines as may be thought necessary for the constitution should be given liberally, as well as the specific. Bark is the medicine that probably will be of most general use ; opium in most cases of this kind will also be of sin- gular service. The bark should be given in large quantities, and along with it mercury, while the virus is still supposed to exist. Or if the in-