OF THE TEETH. 59 CHAPTER T. OF THE DISEASES OF THE TEETH, AND THE CONSE- QUENCES OF THEM. §. 1. The Decay of the Teeth, arising from Rottenness. The most common disease to which the teeth are exposed is such a decay as would appear to deserve the name of mortification. But there is something more; for the simple death of the part would produce but little effect, as we find that teeth are not subject to putrefaction after death, and therefore I am apt to suspect, that during life there is some operation going on which produces a change in the diseased part. It almost always begins externally in a small part of the body of the tooth, and commonly appears at first as an opake white spot. This is owing to the enamel’s losing its regular and crystallized texture, and being reduced to a state of powder, from the attraction of cohesion being de- stroyed, which produces similar effects to those of powdered crystal. When this has crumbled away, the bony part of the tooth is exposed; and when the disease has attacked this part, it generally appears like a dark brown speck. Sometimes, however, there is no change of colour, and therefore the disease is not observable till it has made a consider^ able hole in the tooth. The dead part is generally at first round, but not always, its particular figure depending more on the place where it begins than on any other circumstance. It is often observed on the hollow parts of the grinding surface of the molares, and there looks like a crack filled with a very black substance. In the incisores the disease usually begins pretty near the neck of the tooth, and the scooping pro- cess goes on enlarging the cavity, commonly across the same part of the tooth, which almost divides it into two. When such a diseased tooth gives way, the mischief is occasioned by its body breaking off. When it attacks the bony part it appears first to destroy the earth ; for the bone becomes softer and softer, and is at last so soft on the ex- terior exposed surface that it can be picked away with a pin, and when allowed to dry it cracks like dried clay. It begins sometimes in the inside of the tooth, although but rarely. In this case the tooth becomes of a shining black, from the dark colour being seen through the remaining shell of the tooth, and no hole is found leading into the cavity.