142 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. The matter which is impregnated with this poison, when it comes in contact with a living part, irritates that part, and inflammation is the common consequence. It must be applied either in a fluid state, or rendered fluid by the juices of the part to which it is applied. There is no instance where it has given the infection in the form of vapour, as is the case in many other poisons. §.4. Of the greater or less Acrimony of the Poison. Venereal matter must in all cases be the same : one quantity of mat- ter cannot have a greater degree of poisonous quality than another; and if there is any difference it is only in its being more or less diluted, which produces no difference in its effects. One can conceive, howr- ever, that it may be so far diluted as not to have the power of irritation. Thus any fluid taken into the mouth, capable of stimulating the nerves to taste, may be so diluted as not to be tasted. But if the poison can irritate the part to which it is applied to action, it is all that is required; the action will be the same, whether from a large or small quantity, from a strong or a weak solution*. We find from experience that there is no difference in the kind of matter; and no variation can arise in the disease from the matter’s being of different degrees of strength, for it appears that the same matter af- fects very differently different people. Two men having been connected with one woman, and both catching the disease, one of them shall have a violent gonorrhoea, or chancre, while the other shall have merely a slight gonorrhoea. I have known one man give the disease to different women, and some of the women have had it very severely, while in others it has been very slight. The same reasoning holds good with regard to chancres. The variations of the symptoms in different per- sons depend upon the constitution and habit of the patient at the time. * These words added, “ Since those men who have taken great pains in washing the parts immediately after connexion have caught the disease, and the symptoms have been equally severe as in others who used no such precaution.’’—Home. chancre. He suffered repeatedly from secondary symptoms, which were as often re- moved by appropriate treatment, but the induration always remained. At length, when a considerable interval had passed without a relapse, and he believed himself to be finally cured, he married, though the induration was not removed. His wife was infected. Cases of this kind might be multiplied without difficulty, and almost necessarily lead to the inference that infection may take place from the contact of a simple chancrous thickening, although no ulceration whatever is present. A misconception of this truth has often led to consequences which are most lamentable. In a considerable propor- tion of those cases in which a wife has been infected in consequence of marriage with a man labouring under syphilis, the communication seems to have taken place from the cicatrix of a sore which has been healed.J