392 or THE LUES VENEREA. keep up the constitutional disease. If this were really the case, it would he very different from many other specific diseases; for the reason why many specific diseases cure themselves is that the irritation cannot last beyond a stated time; and also that in many the patient is never sus- ceptible of the same disease a second time, as in the smallpox. If this was not the case, a person once having the smallpox would always have them ; for according to one supposition, that absorption of its own pus keeps up the disease ; and according to another, that the irritation never wears itself out, the patient would either never be free, or have them repeated for ever; for his own matter would give the disease a second time, a third time, and so on*. But the venereal matter, when taken into the constitution, produces an irritation which is capable of being continued independent of a continuance of absorption ; and the consti- tution has no power of relief, therefore a lues venerea continues to in- crease. This circumstance is perhaps one of the best distinguishing marks of the lues venerea, for in its ulcers and blotches it is often imi- tated by other diseases, which not having this property will therefore heal and break out again in some other part. Diseases in which this happens show themselves not to be venereal. However, we are not to conclude, because they do not heal of themselves and give way only to mercury, that therefore they are not venereal, although this circum- stance joined to others gives a strong suspicion of their being such. When the parts are contaminated by the venereal poison, we com- monly find fever, restlessness, or want of sleep, and often headache ; but I believe that these symptoms are rather peculiar to the disease, when the second order of parfcs, the periosteum and bones, are affected, althpugh they are sometimes found from the first. Do these symptoms arise from the local irritations affecting the constitution ? And are they merely sympathetic ? Whatever the immediate cause may be, they never go off’ till the local irritations are removed. This fever at first has much the appearance of the rheumatic fever; and after a time it partakes a good deal of the nature of the hectic. These symptoms often take place independent of, or unattended by, any local action; and when that is the case it becomes very uncertain what the disease is; for in cases not admitting of clear proof we must rest on the concurrence of circumstances. Many of these symptoms give way to mercury. This is probably the only concurring circum- • This circumstance alone is a strong proof that people cannot have the smallpox t vice, at least at any distance of time between, if they had fair eruptions the first time ; for if the constitution was not so altered as not to be susceptible of this irritation a se- cond time, a person would have them immediately upon the going oti' of the first.