DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 479 mer, aa the firat maturated, while the latter appeared only cutaneous, peeling off and leaving a circumscribed spot of a light dun colour, which continued increasing for five weeks. These eruptions continued nearly three months from their commencement, at which period the child was extremely emaciated; but no particular treatment was indicated, so no medicine was exhibited, and in a few weeks after it came to London and got perfectly well. The second nurse, a few days after giving suck to the child, had blotches appear on her left breast, precisely the same with those on the first nurse, with this difference only, that they were fewer in number, and attended with a greater degree of phlegmonous inflammation. They continued, and increased in size for seven or eight days ; then the nipple of the same breast became ulcerated, the ulceration spreading so much as to endanger the loss of it: her thighs now became diseased, and af- terwards her legs. She suckled this child about twelve weeks. The disease seemed no longer to increase, and in twelve or fourteen days after this entirely dis- appeared, without her taking any medicine, except a few ounces of the decoction of the bark. The only application to the breast was unguen- tum simplex. The milk at this time became so small in quantity that they were under the necessity of providing a third wetnurse for the child, and the second returned to the country. Her own child being weaned, she had no further occasion for the milk, and in a few days it wholly disappeared ; but by way of amusing the child when peevish, she allowed it to take the nipple which had been diseased in its mouth ; the consequence was, that in a few days this child also became diseased in like manner with the former. She now applied to an eminent surgeon for assistance, who, not being acquainted with the history, supposed it venereal, and ordered a colourless medicine, supposed, from circumstances, to be the solution of sublimate, sixteen grains to half a pint of water; the dose a table-spoonful. She took this medicine sis directed, and also gave it to her husband and child ; the child a tea-spoonful only at a time. While taking this medicine she got well The third wetnurse, like the former, wras in a short time affected, but the blotches in this case were still few'er in number, the disease appear- ing to lose considerably in its power, as each fresh infection became less malignant than the former. She got wrell without taking any me- dicine*. * Added: “ The following case shows the effect of the state of the mind upon the body, and the bad consequences attending the patient’s being indulged in his own