308 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. happy to have shortened the time; and when he had once broke the spell, the mind and powers went on together, and his mind never re- turned to its former state*. §• 2. Of Impotence from a want of proper correspondence between the actions of the different organs. I lately observed, when treating of the diseases of the urethra and bladder, that every organ in an animal body, without exception, was made up of different parts, whose functions, or actions, were totally different from each other, although all tending to produce one ultimate effect. In all such organs, when perfect, there is a succession of mo- tions, one naturally arising out of the other, which in the end produces the ultimate effect; and an irregularity alone in these actions will con- stitute disease, at least will produce very disagreeable effects, and often totally frustrate the final intention of the organ. I come now to apply this principle to the actions of the testicle and the penis; for we find that an irregularity in the actions of these parts sometimes happens in men, producing impotence; and something similar, probably, may be one cause of barrenness in women. In men the parts subservient to generation may be divided into two, the essential and the accessory. The testicles are the essential; the penis, &c., the accessory. As this division arises from their uses or actions in health, which exactly correspond with one another; a want of exactness in the correspondence, or susceptibility of those actions, may also be divided into two: where the actions are reversed, the ac- cessory taking place without the first, or essential, as in erections of the penis, where neither the mind nor the testicles are stimulated to action ; and the second is where the testicle performs the action of secretion too readily for the penis, which has not a corresponding erection. The first is called priapism, and the second is what ought to be called seminal weakness. The mind has considerable effect on the correspondence of the actions of these two parts ; but it would appear in many instances that erections of the penis depend more on the state of the mind than what the secre- tion of the semen does; for many have the secretion, but not the erec- tion ; but in such the want of erection appears to be owing to the mind only. Priapism often arises spontaneously, and often from visible irritation * Added: “Several similar instances have come under my care, but there is an evident objection to multiplying unnecessarily cases of this kind.”—Home.