OF THE LUES VENEREA. 423 or nodes upon either the periosteum, bones, tendons, or other parts appearing, show the cause, and in some degree carry off the symptoms of fever and relieve the constitution for a little time, but they soon recur. These constitutional complaints, however, are not always to be found, the poison stimulating so slowly as hardly to affect the constitution, unless it be allowed to remain in it a long time. There are a number of local appearances, mentioned by authors, which I never saw, such as the fissures about the anus, &c. There are also a number of diseases described by authors as venereal, espe- cially by Astruc and his followers, which are almost endless. The can- cer, scrofula, rheumatism, and gout have been considered a3 arising from it, which may be in some measure true; but they are with them the disease itself, and all their consequences, as consumption, wasting from want of nourishment, jaundice, and a thousand other diseases, which happened many years before the existence of the lues venerea, are all attributed to it. There is even at this day hardly any disease the practitioner is puzzled about, but the venereal comes immediately into his mind; and if this became the cause of careful investigation it would be productive of good, but with many the idea alone satisfies the mind. CHAPTER III. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE CURE OF LUES VENEREA. It has been observed before, that there are three forms of the venereal infection, gonorrhoea, chancre, and the lues venerea, which various forms I have endeavoured to account for. As they all three arise from the same poison, and as the two first depend only on a difference in the nature of the parts, and the lues venerea on another circumstance which ha3 been explained, it would be natural to suppose that one medicine, whatever it be, would cure all the forms of this disease. But we find from experience that this does not hold good ; for one medicine, that is mercury, cures only the chancre and the lues venerea, and the gonor-