95 OF THE TEETH. in such a situation, is rather to produce a fresh cause, than to remove the present. Of this I think an instance has occurred to me. How- ever, most teeth are drawn in the height of inflammation ; and, as we do not find any mischief from the operation, it is perhaps better to do it when the resolution of the patient is the greatest. The sensibility of the mind may even be less at this time. Teeth are easy or difficult of extraction, according as they are fast or loose in their sockets; in some degree according to the kind of tooth, and also in some degree with reference to their situation*. They are naturally so fast as to require instruments, and the most cautious and dextrous hand; and yet are sometimes loose enough to be pulled out by the fingers. When the sockets and gums are considerably decayed, and the tooth or teeth very loose, it would in most cases be right to perform extrac- tion ; for when they are allowed to stay, and perhaps are kept in their proper place by being tied to the neighbouring teeth, they then act upon the remaining gum and socket as extraneous bodies, producing ulceration there, and making those parts recede much further than they naturally would have done if the tooth had been drawn earlier; which produces two bad effects—it weakens the lateral support of the two neighbouring teeth, and it renders it more difficult to fix an artificial tooth. But unless these two last circumstances are forcibly impressed upon the patient, it is hardly possible to persuade him to consent to the loss of a tooth while it has any hold, especially a tooth which ap- pears sound. The extraction should never be done quickly; for this often occasions great mischief, breaking the tooth or jaw; on the same principle as a bullet going against an open door with great velocity will pass through it, but with little velocity will shut it. This caution is most necessary in adults, or in the permanent teethf; for in young subjects, where there are only the temporary teeth 1, the jaw not being so firm, the tooth is not in much danger of being broken §. It is a common practice to divide the gum from the tooth before it is drawn, which Ls attended with very little advantage, because at best it can only be imperfectly done, and that part of the gum which ad- heres to the tooth decays when it is lost. But if such a separation as * For further directions, see Natural History, p. 54. t Natural History, p. 30. t Ibid., PI. VIII. f. 10, 17, 18. § I must do Mr. Spence the justice to say, that this method appears to be peculiar to him, and that he is the only operator I ever knew who would submit to be in- structed, or even allow an equal in knowledge; and I must do the same justice to both his sons.