SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 265 pens that a catheter can be introduced into the opening of such an ab- scess, by which means it can be washed by injecting something through the catheter whereby probably it may be sooner healed. It more fre- quently happens that such abscesses open both internally and exter- nally, discharging themselves both ways. These ulcerations and suppurations, of both kinds, are to be consi- dered as efforts of Nature, or, to speak more physiologically, as a natural consequence arising from such irritation, by which, as the urine cannot pass by the old passage, a new one is made to prevent further mischief. Both these diseases, when they open externally, if not properly treated, often lay the foundation for the complaint commonly called the fistula in perinseo, which is owing to the bottom of the abscess having a less disposition to heal than the external parts. It may be further supposed, that the urine passing into the abscess by the inner orifice, and making its escape into the external, keeps up a constant irritation in the sore, which in some measure may prevent an union of the sides, and rather dispose them to form themselves into a hard callous substance, the inner surface of which loses the disposition to union, and assumes the nature of an outlet. But it is more than probable, that the cause which prevents these abscesses from healing depends upon their first action often continuing in full force; that is, a diseased state of the internal parts, as will be further illustrated when we shall treat on the fistula in perinaeo. They often heal up at the orifice in the skin, especially if the water has a free passage forwards; but if the internal opening is not perfectly consoli- dated, some water will insinuate itself into the old sore, become the cause of fresh inflammations and suppurations in the surrounding parts, which frequently open externally in different places, not following the old canal, although they sometimes communicate with it and form branches, as it were, from the principal trunk. I have seen the scro- tum, perinseum, and inside of the thigh, full of openings, which were the mouths of so nany sinuses leading to the first-formed abscess. When the abscess opens only externally, which is seldom the case, it is to be considered as a common abscess. When these inflammations arise from stricture, the difficulty in milk- ing water is increased in the time of the inflammation, which is generally so great as to compress the sides of the urethra together for some way ; besides, the stricture itself will become tighter from being inflamed. Inflammation in these parts, even when it does not arise from a stric- ture, brings on a suppression of urine ; but in such cases a bougie or catheter can be passed, the latter of which, in cases of obstruction aris- ing from contiguous swellings, as tumours, inflammations, and swelled