199 OF GONOERIKEA. ter, although I cannot say that I ever saw any bad effects from them in any case, when applied with caution. Fluid applications to the inside of the urethra are commonly called injections, and, like the internal remedies, are without number; every practitioner thinking, or wishing to make the world think, that his own is the best. But, as every venereal inflammation is frequently removed under the use of injections of various kinds (which was observed with respect to internal medicines), have we not here a strong corroborating circumstance in favour of an opinion, that every such complaint will in time cure itself? I think, however, it appears from practice, that an injection will often have almost an immediate effect upon the symptoms, and that, therefore, they must have some powers; and yet the kind of injection which would have the greatest specific powers I believe is not yet known : if an injection has no specific powers, it must be very un- certain in its effects, and can only be of service as far as it may be adapted to a peculiarity of constitution or parts. As injections are only temporary applications, it becomes necessary to use them often, espe- cially in cases where they are found to be of service ; they should there- fore be applied as often as convenient, perhaps every hour, or even oftener; but this must be regulated in some measure by the kind of in- jection, for if it be irritating it will not be proper to use it so often, as it may be productive of bad consequences. Many injections immediately, or at least soon after the application, remove the symptoms, and prevent the formation of matter, which has given rise to the notion of their shutting up the disease, and driving it into the constitution ; but this supposed mode of producing a constitu- tional complaint is the reverse of what really happens, for I have already endeavoured to prove that matter is the only substance in which the poison is contained, and that the formation of the poison is inseparable from the formation of matter; therefore if we can prevent the one, the other cannot take place, and of course there can be no room for absorp- tion ; so that there can neither be any power of infecting the constitu- tion in the same person, nor of communicating the infection to others.* When the discharge is an effect of present inflammation it may be stopped by injections, though the inflammation still continue in some degree, and may afterwards be removed without the discharge ever re- appearing. But I believe that by this practice little is gained, for the effect of the inflammation is not the disease which we wish to remove. However, we find that the same method which stops the discharge also removes the inflammation, although not always, and only I believe when the inflammation is slight. * Vide, p. 110, what was said of the method of contracting the lues venerea.