366 OF BUBO. The first thing to be attended to is, whether or not there are any ve* ncreal complaints; and if not, this becomes a strong presumptive proof that they may not be venereal, but proceed from some unknown cause. If the swelling is only in one gland, very slow in its progress, and gives but little or no pain, it is probably merely scrofulous; but if the swell- ing is considerable, diffused and attended with some inflammation and pain, then it is most probable that there is a constitutional action con- sisting in slight fever, the symptoms of which are lassitude, loss of appe- tite, want of sleep, small quick pulse, and an appearance of approaching hectic. Such swellings are slow in their cure, and do not seem to be affected by mercury, even when very early applied. A gentleman had all the symptoms of a slight fever; the pulse a little quick and hard, loss of appetite, and of course loss of flesh; a listless- ness, and a sallow look. While he was in this state a swelling took place in the glands of one of the groins. He immediately sent for me, because he imagined it to be venereal. From the history of the case, I gave it as my firm opinion it was not; in this he had not much faith. The swellings were not very painful, and, after having acquired a con- siderable size, they became stationary. To please him, I gave him a box of mercurial ointment, to be rubbed on the leg and thigh only of the side affected, that it might have a sufficient local effect, and as little go into the constitution as possible; but it did not appear to be of any sendee to the swellings in the groin, they remaining stationary, and al- most without pain. His friends became uneasy, and sent their surgeons to him, who, without knowing he was my patient, and of course without knowing my opinion, imagined that the disease was venereal, and talked of giving mercury. With respect to the cure, I thought he should go to the sea and bathe. Allowing the chance of the disease being venereal or not venereal to be equal, I reasoned upon that ground. His present want of health could not be supposed to arise from any venereal cause, as it was prior to the swelling in the groin; and therefore though the swelling might be venereal, he was not at present in a condition to take mercury, as a sufficient quantity of that medicine, for the cure, might kill him : and if it should not be venereal, that still a greater quantity of mercury must be given than what was necessary if it were venereal; because its not giving way readily would naturally make the surgeon push the mercury further; and, besides this disagreeable circumstance, the disease in the groin might be rendered more difficult of cure. But by going to the sea his constitution would be restored; and if the disease in the groin proved to be venereal, he would be in a proper condition to go through a mer- curial course, and by that means get rid of both diseases by the two