OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 45 to the better understanding of the shedding of the teeth, and as the jaws seem to differ, in their manner of growing, from other bones, and also vary according to the age, it will be here proper to give some account of their growth. In a foetus three or four months old, we have described the marks of four or five teeth, which occupy the whole length of the upper jaw, and all that part of the lower which lies before the coronoid process, for the fifth tooth is somewhat under that process *. These five marks become larger, and the jaw-bones of course increase in all directions, but more considerably backwards ; for in a foetus of seven or eight months the marks of six teeth in each side of both jaws are to be observed, and the sixth seems to be in the place where the fifth was ; so that in these last four months the jaw has grown in all directions in proportion to the increased size of the teeth, and besides has lengthened itself at its posterior end as much as the whole breadth of the socket of that sixth toothf. The jaw still increases in all points till twelve months after birth, when the bodies of all the six teeth are pretty well formed ; but it never after increases in length between the symphysis and the sixth tooth ; and from this time, too, the alveolar process, which makes the anterior part of the arches of both jaws, never becomes a section of a larger circle, whence the lower part of a child’s face is flatter, or not so pro- jecting forwards as in the adult I- After this time the jaws lengthen only at their posterior ends; so that the sixth tooth, which was under the coronoid process in the lower jaw, and in the tubercles of the upper jaw of the foetus, is at last, viz. in the eighth or ninth year, placed before these parts; and then the seventh tooth appears in the place which the sixth occupied, with re- spect to the coronoid process and tubercle ; and about the twelfth or fourteenth year, the eighth tooth is situated where the seventh was placed. At the age of eighteen or twenty, the eighth tooth is found before the coronoid process in the lower jaw and under, or somewhat before the tubercle in the upper jaw, which tubercle is no more than a succession of sockets for the teeth till they are completely formed. In a young child the cavity in the temporal bone for the articulation of the jaw is nearly in a line with the gums of the upper jaw; and for this reason the condyle of the lower jaw is nearly in the same line § ; but afterwards, by the addition of the alveolar process and teeth, the * PI. VI. f. l, 2. f PI. VI. f. 3, 4, 5, & 6, for the general increase of the jaws, but more particularly backwards. X FI. VI. f. 7. for these facts. § PI. VI. f. 10.