136 INTRODUCTION. flammation ; that which forms pus, the suppurative inflammation ; and that which removes parts, the ulcerative inflammation. In the adhesive inflammation the arteries throw out coagulable lymph, which becomes the bond of union. This, however, is not simply extra- vasated, but has undergone some change before it leaves the arteries, since in inflamed veins it is found lying coagulated upon the internal surface of the vessel, which could not have happened if simply extrava- sated. In the suppurative inflammation a still greater change is pro- duced upon the blood before it is thrown out by the arteries, whereby it is formed into pus; which change is probably similar to secretion. In the ulcerative inflammation, the action of the arteries does not remove the parts: that office is performed by the absorbent vessels which are brought into action. In the two first species of inflammation there must be a change in the disposition and mode of action of the arteries; for the suppurative spe- cies cannot be considered as simply an increase of the action of the ad- hesive, as its effects are totally different; but in the third species there is probably no change of action in the arteries from that of the second : the action only of the absorbents being superadded, by which solid parts, and of course the arteries themselves, are removed. ยง.6. Of Mortification. Mortifications are of two kinds, one preceded by inflammation, the other not. But as the cases of mortifications which will be mentioned in this work are all of the first kind, I shall confine my observations to that species. I consider inflammation as an increased action of that power which a part is naturally in possession of. This increased action, in healthy in- flammations at least, is probably attended with an increase of power; but in inflammations which terminate in mortification there is no increase of power. On the contrary, there is a diminution of power, which, joined to an increased action, becomes the cause of mortification, by destroying the balance which ought to subsist between the power and action of every part. If this account of mortifications be just, we shall find it no difficult matter to establish a rational practice. But, before we attempt this, let us just take a view of the treatment hitherto recommended, and see how far it agrees with our theory. It is plain, from the common practice, that the weakness has been ut-