SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 247 compression from some adjacent swelling, and they are common in uterogestation, as also in dropsical or scirrhous ovaria. But such causes are commonly known long before this effect is produced, by which the suppression is easily accounted for. It may also arise from excres- cences as in men. How far a stricture in the urethra of this sex is really a consequence of a venereal inflammation I am not certain; but I should suppose it is not, and for stronger reasons still than those which I gave in speaking of the cause of strictures in men ; for I can say that none of the stric- tures that I have seen in women have arisen in consequence of this dis- ease, at least I had no reason to believe that they did; and I have observed before that in most women who have the venereal disease in the form of a gonorrhoea, it seldom attacks the urethra. Therefore, if we find a stricture in a woman who has had the disease, we are not to im- is a permanent stricture which is more or less affected with spasm, the spasm will be relieved as speedily, but the permanent contraction will remain. The stricture will not be removed, but its irritability will be lessened. The opening will be enlarged so as to admit a larger instrument than before, but it will not be dilated to the natural size of the urethra. These effects are obtained by one or two applications of the caustic as perfectly as by a longer continuance of its use. The actual destruction of the stricture is a very slow process, and in old indurated strictures is scarcely attainable. The slough which is produced by the nitrate of silver is very superficial, and no material destruction can be effected without numerous repetitions of the remedy. In the mean time there is much danger of deviating from the true direction of the urethra, and the patient is subject to very serious accidents during the course. Of these accidents the first is retention of urine, which is a very common consequence of caustic. It arises sometimes from the violence of the irritation, but at other times it appears to be derived from the obstruction which is given by the slough, which during the process of suppuration hangs like a fringe from the edge of the stricture, and where the opening is small seems to oppose a mechanical obstacle to the flow of the urine. Haemorrhage is another effect which is of frequent occurrence, and often proceeds to a most formidable extent. This symptom however, though very alarming to the patient, is never fatal, and as it invariably facilitates the cure, it can scarcely be considered as undesirable. Again, caustic very frequently occasions rigors, especially in those who have previously suffered from them; and it is by no means rare that its use should be followed by the occurrence of an abscess in the perinamm. Moreover, caustic has no advantage over bougies in respect to the permanent cure of the malady. Experience has fully proved that after a stricture has been removed by caustic, bougies are still necessary, and that unless they are occasionally passed it is almost certain to recur. For these reasons the treatment by caustic has of late lost much of Us former cele- brity. Even those advantages which in some cases it unquestionably possesses have been insufficient to prevent it from falling more and more into disuse. Surgeons now generally prefer the treatment by bougies, which effects the same objects, sometimes indeed more slowly, but on the whole more certainly, and with lpss inconvenience and hazard.]