220 OF GONORRHOEA. can be annexed to the expression. By mechanical weakness is under- stood the inability to perform some action or sustain some force. By animal weakness the same is understood. But when the expression is applied to the animal’s performing an uncommon or an additional action, I do not perfectly understand it. Upon this idea of weakness depended in a great measure the usual method of cure; but we shall find that the treatment founded on this idea is so far from answering in all cases that it often does harm, and that a contrary practice is successful. A gleet differs from a gonorrhoea: first, in this, that though a con- sequence of it, it is perfectly innocent with respect to infection; se- condly, when it is a true gleet it is generally different in some of the -constituent parts of the discharge, which consists of globular bodies, floating or wrapt in a slimy mucus instead of a serum. But the urethra is so circumstanced as easily to fall back into the formation of pus ; and this commonly happens upon the least increase of exercise, eating or drinking indigestible food, or anything which increases the circulation or heats the patient. The virus, however, I believe, does not return; but of this I am not certain, for there are cases that make it very doubt- ful, as was before observed. I am inclined to suspect that a gleet arises from the surface of the urethra only, and not from the glands : for I have observed in several instances that when the passage has just been cleared, either by the discharge of urine or by the use of an injection, a lascivious idea has caused the natural slime to flow very pure, which I do suppose would not have happened if the parts secreting the liquor had assisted in form- ing the gleet*. A gleet is supposed to be an attendant upon what we call a relaxed constitution; but I can hardly say that I have observed this to be the case : at least I have seen instances where I should have expected such a termination of a gonorrhoea, if this had been a general cause, but did not find it; and I have seen it in strong constitutions, at least in ap- pearance, in every other respect. Gleets do not in all cases arise from preceding gonorrhoeas, but sometimes from other diseases of the urethra. A stricture in the urethra is, I believe, almost always attended with a gleet. It sometimes arises also from a disease in the prostate gland. When a gleet does not arise from any evident cause, nor can be sup- posed to be a return of a former gleet in consequence of a gonorrhoea, a * Added: “ A gentleman has a gleet, occasionally attended with pain in making water: it is brought on by sitting in a post-chaise, if he sits on the cushion, but not if he sits on a hard seat; it never comes on after riding on horseback, but lie believes that riding upon a padded saddle would produce it.”-—Home.