33 OF THE HUMAN TEETH. § PI. VI. f. 11. The alveolar process grows with the teeth, and for some time keeps the start of them. The ridges which are to make the partitions shoot from the sides across the canal, at the mouth of the cell, forming hol- low arches : this change happens first at the anterior part of the jaws*. As each cell becomes deeper, its mouth also grows narrower, and at length is almost, but not quite, closed over the contained tooth. The disposition for contracting the mouth of the cell is chiefly in the outer plate of the bone, which occasions the contracted orifices of the cells to be nearer the inner edge of the jawf. The reason, perhaps, why the bone shoots over, and almost covers the tooth, is that the gum may be firmly supported before the teeth have come through. The alveoli which belong to the adult grinders are formed in an- other manner : in the lower jaw they would seem to be the remains of the root of the coronoid process J, for the cells are formed for those teeth in the root of that process; and in proportion as the body of the bone, and the cells already formed, push forwards from under that process, the succeeding cells and their teeth are formed, and pushed forward in the same manner. In the upper jaw there are cells formed in the tubercles for the young grinders, which at first are very shallow, and become deeper and deeper as the teeth grow ; and they grow somewhat faster, so as almost to inclose the whole tooth before it is ready to push its way through that inclosure and gum§. There is a succession of these till the whole three grinders are formed. Of the Formation of the Teeth in the Foetus. The depressions or first rudiments of the alveoli observable in a foetus of three or four months, are filled with four or five little pulpy substances, which are not very distinct at this age. About the fifth month both the processes themselves and the pulpy substances become more distinct, the anterior of which are the most complete. About this age, too, the ossifications begin on the edge of the first incisores. 'The cuspidati are not in the same circular line with the rest, but somewhat on the outside, making a projection there at this age, there not being sufficient room for them. About the sixth or seventh month the edges or tips of all these five sub- • PI. VI. f. 1,2,3, 4, 5, 6. t PI. VI., which is most remarkable in those of the grinders, as the alveoli of these are not opened for the exit of the teeth. J PI. VI. f. 7. VOL. XI. n