■216 OF GONORRHCEA. CHAPTER VIII. OBSERVATIONS ON THE SYMPTOMS WHICH OFTEN REMAIN AFTER THE DISEASE IS SUBDUED. I r often happens, after the virus is destroyed and the venereal inflam- mation removed, that some one, two, or more of the symptoms shall continue, and perhaps prove more obstinate than the original disease it- self. Some of these symptoms shall continue through life, and even new' ones shall sometimes arise as soon as the first have subsided. All these symptoms are commonly imputed by the patients themselves, and what is still worse, by some of the profession, to the original disease having been ill treated. But certainly, so far as we are yet acquainted with the disease and method of cure, this is not true; for the methods ol treatment, though numerous, may be said to be very similar; and we shall find these symptoms not to be consequences of any one mode of treatment, but that they happen indiscriminately after them all. Yet I can conceive that many constitutions and particular parts often require one mode of treatment in preference to another, and probably require modes that we are not as yet acquainted with; but if these peculiari- ties of constitution or of parts are not yet known, which must often be the case, the practitioner is not to be rashly accused of ignorance. In the Introduction, I observed that the venereal disease is capable of calling into action such susceptibilities as are remarkably strong, and peculiar to certain constitutions and countries ; and that, as the scrofula is predominant in this country, some of the effects of gonorrhoea may partake of a scrofulous nature. The symptoms which continue after the virus is gone do not owe their continuance to the specific qualities of the virus, but to its effects upon the parts, such as inflammation and its consequences; for the same de- gree of inflammation, arising from any other cause, would leave most of the same effects. But I suspect that the continuance of the discharge called a gleet is an exception to this; for we find that it is often cured by the same mode of action which would produce the other symptoms, that is, inflammation; and we find in general that a discharge brought on by violence of no specific kind does not last longer than the violence, even although the cause has been continued for some time, as is often the case during the use of bougies.