22 THE NATURAL HISTORY There is a regular gradation, both in growth and form, through these classes, from the incisores to the molares ; in which respect the cuspidati are of a middle nature between the incisores and bicuspides, just as the last-mentioned are intermediate between the cuspidati and molares: consequently the incisores and molares are the most unlike in every circumstance*. Of the Incisores. The incisores are situated in the anterior part of the jaw ; the others more backwards on each side, in the order in which we have named them. The bodies of the incisores are broad, having two flat surfaces, one anterior, the other posterior. These surfaces meet in a sharp cut- ting edge. The anterior surface is convex in every direction, and placed almost perpendicularly ; and the posterior is concave and sloping, so that the cutting edge is almost directly over the anterior surface f. These surfaces are broadest and the tooth is thinnest at the cutting edge or end of the tooth, and thence they become gradually narrower and the tooth thicker towards the neck, where the surfaces are con- tinued to the narrowest side or edge of the fang. The body of an in- cisor, in a side view, grows gradually thicker or broader from the edge of the tooth to its neck; and these coincide with the flat or broad side of the fang: so that when we look on the fore or back part of an incisor, we observe it grows constantly narrower from its cutting edge to the extremity of its fang. But in a side view it is thickest or broad- est at its neck, and thence becomes gradually more narrow, both to its cutting edge and to the point of its fang}. The enamel is continued further down and is thicker on the anterior and back part of the incisores than on their sides, and is even a little thicker on the fore part than upon the back part of the tooth. If we view them laterally, either when entire or when cut down through the middle, but especially in the latter case, it would seem as if the fang was driven like a wedge into and had split the body or enamel of the tooth ยง. They stand almost perpendicularly, their bodies being turned a little forwards. Their fangs are much shorter than those of the cuspidati, but pretty much of the same length with all the other teeth of this jaw||. * PI. II. ami PI. V. f. 1. ll is here to be understood that the teeth from which we take our description are such as are just completely formed, and not therefore in the least worn down by mastication. Our description of each class is taken from the lower jaw; and the difference between them and their corresponding classes in the upper jaw immediately follows that description. f PI. V. ' X Ibid. ยง Ibid. f. 18. || PI. HI. C4.