188 OF GONORRIKEA. fected, has great sensibility, is capable of violent inflammation, is often distended with a stimulating fluid, and the body of the penis, urethra, and glans, stretching the passage with erections, always produce an in- crease of the symptoms, especially of the pain. But as this disease frequently attacks parts, more sensible than the vagina, and which are more susceptible of inflammation, as has been observed, under such circumstances women have nearly the same sym- ptoms as men; a fulness about the parts, almost like an inflamed ton- sil, a discharge from the urethra, violent pain in making water, and great uneasiness in sitting, from pressure on those parts. The bladder sometimes sympathises, producing the same symptoms as in men, and it is probable that the irritation may be communicated even to the kidneys. It has been asserted that the ovaria are sometimes affected in a similar manner to the testicles in men. I have never seen a case of this kind, and I should very much doubt the possibility of its existence ; for we have no instance, in other diseases, of the ovaria sym- pathising with those parts, or at least producing such symptoms as would enable us to determine that they did. That there do, however, uncommon symptoms now and then occur, should appear from the fol- lowing case. A lady had all the symptoms of a venereal gonorrhoea, such as a dis- charge, pain and frequency in making water, or rather a continued in- clination to void it, and a heaviness approaching to pain about the hips and loins. The uncommon symptom in this case was great flatulency in the stomach and bowels; this last symptom was most probably a sympathy with the uterus. There may possibly be sympathies there- fore with the ovaria. The inflammation frequently goes deeper than the surface of the parts; often running along the ducts of the glands, and affecting the glands themselves, so as to produce hard swellings under the surface of the in- side of the labia, which sometimes suppurate, forming small abscesses, opening near the orifice of the vagina. These are similar to the inflam- mations and suppurations of the glands in the urethra in men. The different surfaces or parts which the disease attacks, make no distinc- tion in the disease itself. It is immaterial whether it is a large or small surface : in one case the parts are more susceptible of this irritation than in another; but the method of cure may be more complicated. It sometimes happens that the venereal matter from the vagina runs down the pcrinacum to the anus, producing a gonorrhoea or chancres there. How far the gonorrhoea in women is capable of wearing itself out, as in men, I cannot absolutely determine; but am much inclined to believe