86 OF THE DISEASES the gum, on account of the motion of the lips upon it, and the pressure of the food, &c. It is also pretty clean close to the gum from the motion of the loose edge of the gum upon that part; but this circum- stance is only observable in those who have their gums perfectly sound, for in others this loose edge of the gum is either lost, or no longer re- tains its free motion. If art be not now used, as the natural motion of the parts is not suf- ficient, the incrustation increasing covers more and more of the teeth. As mastication generally keeps that part clear which is near to the edges and grinding surfaces, and as the motion of the lips in some measure retards its growth outwards, it accumulates on the parts above mentioned till it rises almost as high as the gum; its growth being now retarded in that direction, it accumulates on the edge next to the gum, so that in time it passes over the gum, of which it covers a greater, or less portion. When it has increased so much as to touch the gum, (which very soon happens, especially in the angle between the teeth,) it produces ulceration of that part, and a train of bad conse- quences. Often the gums, receding from this matter, become very tender, and subject to haemorrhage. The alveolar processes frequently take part with the gums, and ulce- rate, so that the teeth are left without their support, and at last drop out, similarly to the diseases of these parts already described. All our juices contain a considerable quantity of calcareous earth, which is dissolved in them, and which is separated from them upon exposure, which continues mixed with the mucus; so that the extra- neous matter consists of earth and the common secreted mucus*. This disposition of the juices of the mouth to abound so much with earth, seems to be peculiar to some people, perhaps to some constitu- tions ; but I have not been able to ascertain what these are. We find persons who seem to have nothing particular either in constitution or way of life so subject to this accumulation that the common methods of prevention, such as washing and brushing the teeth, have not the desired effect. The disposition is so strong in some people that the concretion forms on the whole body of the tooth; I have seen it even on the grinding surfaceof the molares, andoften two or three teeth are cemented together with it. This I think could only happen to those who seldom or never use these teeth. It is very apt to accumulate on a tooth the opposite of which is lost. 1 once saw a case of this kind where the accumulation, which was on a grinder, appeared like a tumour on the inside of the mouth, and * Vide Natural History, page 55, in the note, for a further description of this.