OF HU DO. 378 I ordered mercurial ointment to be rubbed into both the legs and thighs, to resolve them if possible. He appeared to be less uneasy about the buboes than he was about the gonorrhoea, but I told him that the cure of that complaint would be insensibly involved in the resolution of the buboes. I spoke too confidently of my power with respect to the reso- lution of the buboes, for they both suppurated, although the suppuration was small in comparison to the magnitude of the buboes when they first inflamed. The frictions were left off. While we were attempting to resolve the buboes he got well of the gonorrhoea. The skin covering the buboes became thin; they were both opened, one with a caustic, the other with a lancet; he then was ordered to rub in mercury again on the thighs and legs for their cure. They began soon to look well, and to close fast; but when about half healed they became stationary. I suspected that a new disease was forming. On continuing the frictions a little longer they began to in- flame and swell anew, and a suppuration took place about half an inch above each of the first suppurations, which broke into the first. I left off’ the mercury immediately upon their inflaming, and said that now a new disease had formed. I ordered poultices made with sea-water to be applied, and also a decoction of sarsaparilla to be taken ; but this ap- peared not to be sufficient for the cure of this new disease. I then or- dered him to go into the tepid sea-bath every evening, the heat of the water to be about ninety degrees. By the time he had been in the bath four times the inflammation and swelling had very much abated, and the first sores, or original buboes, were beginning to heal. He went on with the bathing every evening for about three weeks, when the sores rather began to look worse; I then suspected that the venereal disposition was become predominant, and I ordered the friction as before. In about a fortnight the first buboes healed, but the second suppura- tions were not yet healed ; then I supposed it to be entirely the new- formed disease, and lie went into the country, where I desired lie might go into the open sea every day, as he then could have an opportunity, which he did, and got perfectly well, and has continued so. This case plainly shows that there was another disposition formed besides the venereal, which was put into action by the venereal irri- tation. I have seen some buboes most exceedingly painful and tender to al- most everything that touched them, and the more mild that the dress- ings were, the more painful the parts became. In some the skin seems only to admit the disease, ulceration going on in the surrounding skin, while a new skin forms in the centre, and keeps pace with the ulceration, forming an irregular sore like a worm-