OF GONORliHUiA. 165 wash its own matter away. The same reasoning holds good in chancres. I carry this idea still farther, and assert that the parts become less susceptible of the venereal irritation; and that not only a gonorrhoea cannot be continued by the application of either its own or fresh mat- ter, but that a man cannot get a fresh gonorrhoea, or a chancre, if he applies' fresh venereal matter to the parts when the cure is nearly com- pleted, and continues the application ever after, or at least at such in- tervals as are within the effect of habit. I can conceive that in time the parts may become so habituated to this application as to be insen- sible of it; for by a constant application the parts would never be allowed to forget this irritation, or rather never become unaccustomed to it; and therefore this supply of fresh matter could not affect the parts so as to renew the disease till they first recovered their original and natural state, and then they would be capable of being affected again. This opinion is not derived from theory only, but is founded on expe- rience and observation. A man, immediately after having suffered a gonorrhoea, shall have frequent connexions with women of the town, and that for years successively, without being infected ; yet a fresh man shall contract it immediately from the very same woman: and if the first-mentioned man were to be out of the habit of this irritation for some time, he then would be as easily infected as the other. Where this habit is not so strong as to prevent altogether the parts from being affected, still it will do it in part ; and it is a strong proof of this that most people have their first gonorrhoea the most severe, and the suc- ceeding ones generally become milder and milder, till the danger of infec- tion almost vanishes. This seems to be explained by the following facts. A married man, who had had a communication with his wife only for several years, slept with a woman with whom he had formerly cohabited. She gave him a severe gonorrhoea, and declared that she was not conscious of being diseased. He put himself and her under my care ; and while they were going on with their cures they still continued their intercourse, which I readily allowed. He got well, and it was supposed she got well also. The intercourse was continued between them for many months after, with- out any mischief received on his side, or any suspicion of remaining disease on hers. At last this connexion was broken off; and she formed another attachment. She no sooner formed this newr attachment than she gave her new lover a gonorrhoea; she now- flew to me for a cure, and declared that she had no connexion but with the two gentlemen be- fore mentioned, and therefore that the present disease must be the same for which I had attended her formerly. Her second lover was not a