208 OF GONORRHOEA. CHAPTER VII. OF THE TREATMENT OF OCCASIONAL SYMPTOMS OF THE GONORRHOEA. As the following symptoms are only occasional consequences of a vene- real gonorrhoea, being the effects of an irritation on the urethra, and therefore not venereal, they are to be treated in the same manner as if they had arisen from any other cause. discharge of gonorrhoea, and to conclude, that in no degree, and under no circumstances, is the Inflammation increased by its stimulus, or relieved by arresting it. This doctrine, however, seems scarcely consistent with experience. It is difficult to understand the effects of astringents in the early periods of the disorder, except on the supposition, that by arresting the discharge they relieve the urethra from the stimulus of the virus, and thus take away the very cause of the inflammation. Again, the distinction between venereal gonorrhoeas, and simple purulent discharges which are not derived from in- fection, is to be found less in the severity of the symptoms than in their obstinacy. The urethra is often attacked with inflammation as violent as that of a gonorrhoea, in cases where there has been no possibility of infection. The discharge may be as copi- ous, and exactly similar both in colour and appearance. But in these cases the inflam- matory symptoms will in a few days spontaneously subside, and the discharge will di- minish with it; whereas the inflammation and discharge of a gonorrhoea, shall, under similar circumstances, continue for weeks, or even months, without any visible abate- ment. Whence this difference, unless that in simple cases the cause is temporary, and hence the inflammation which it has excited soon exhausts itself; in gonorrhoeas a poison is generated, which acts as a perpetual stimulus, and constantly renews the ex- citement which originally gave rise to the disorder 1 It does not appear that the plan on which a gonorrhoea should be treated differs from that which should be adopted in other inflammations of the urethra. But it must be remembered, that inflammation of mucous membranes generally, of Schneider’s mem- brane for instance, or the inner membrane of the bladder, does not require, and is not benefited by much reduction ; and that, if the constitution be rendered irritable from weakness, these inflammations often become aggravated and obstinate. This rule, which is generally applicable to mucous membranes, is more especially important in all in- flammations of the bladder and urethra, perhaps because depletion tends to change the state of the urinary secretion, and to render it alkaline-and irritating. The duration and severity of a gonorrhoea depend much on the part of the urethra which is attacked by it There is great variety in this respect. In most cases the in- flammation is confined to the neighbourhood of the glans; but in many it involves also the membranous portion, as may be shown, not only by the symptoms during life, but also by dissections after death. If the disease is limited to the last three inches of the urethra, it is seldom very violent or tedious; if it extends to the bulb and parts adjacent, the symptoms are most obstinate and distressing. Except in very rare instances, the disease commences at the glans. If it affects the membranous portion, it is by the