OF BUBO. 363 sonic of the absorbents is also different, from whence there are three situations of buboes in women, two of which are totally different from those in men, and these I suspect to be in the absorbents. The third situation of buboes in this sex is similar to that in men, and therefore they may be divided into three, as in men. When buboes arise in women where there is no chancre, it is more difficult to know whether they are venereal or not than in men; for when they arise in men without any local complaint it is known that no such complaint exists, and therefore the bubo cannot be venereal, excepting by immediate absorption; but in women it is often difficult to know whether there be any infection present or not; and therefore in order to ascertain the nature of the bubo attention must be paid to its manner of coming on, progress, and other circumstances. When chancres are situated forwards, near to the meatus urinarius, nymph®, clitoris, labia, or mons Veneris, then we find that the matter absorbed is carried along one or both of the round ligaments, and the buboes are formed in those ligaments just before they enter the abdo- men, without, I believe, ever going further. These buboes I suspect not to be glandular, but inflamed absorbents; and if so, it strengthens the idea that it is only an external part that can be affected in this way. When the chancres are situated far back, near the perinteum, or in it, the matter absorbed is carried forwards along the angle between the labium and the thigh to the glands in the groin ; and often in this course there are formed small buboes in the absorbents, similar to those on the penis in men; and when the effects of the poison do not rest here, it often produces a bubo in the groin, as in men. CHAPTER III. OF THE INFLAMMATION OF BUBOES, AND THE MARKS THAT DISTINGUISH THEM FROM OTHER SWELLINGS OF THE GLANDS. The bubo commonly begins with a sense of pain, which leads the pa- tient to examine the part, where a small hard tumour is to be felt*. * It must be remarked here, that whenever a person has either a gonorrhoea or a