109 OF TIIE TEETH. will find more difficulty in passing, and give more pain. But this is also contrary to facts; for we find that all parts which have been the seat either of wounds or sores are always more ready to give way to pres- sure or any other disease which attacks either the part itself or the constitution. Therefore each operation tends to make the passing of the teeth easier. When the teeth begin to give pain, we find them generally so far formed as to be easily discerned through the gum. The fore teeth are to be observed at first, not on the edge of the gum, but on the fore part, making risings there, which appear whiter than the other parts; and it may be observed that the gums are broader than usual. At this period the incisions must be made pretty deep, till the tooth be felt with the instrument, otherwise little effect will be produced by the operation ; and this is the general rule with respect to the depth of the incision in all cases. When the grinders shoot into the gum, they flatten the edge of the gum, and make it broad. These teeth are more easily hit by the in- strument than the fore teeth. The operation should not be done with a fine-pointed instrument, such as a common lancet, because most probably the point will be broken off against the tooth, which will make the instrument unfit for going on further, if more incisions are required. A common lancet with its point rounded is a very good instrument, but an instrument something like a fleam, would be of the most con- venient shape. There is no need of any great delicacy in the operation, the gums being very insensible parts ; and to cut through the whole gum down to the teeth with certainty, when they are pretty deep, requires some force. The gums will bleed a little, which may be of service in taking off the inflammation. I never saw a case where the bleeding either proved inconvenient or dangerous. If it ever should be troublesome, I think there could be no great difficulty in stopping it. In general, no appli- cation is necessary : the gums soon unite at the most distant part from the tooth, if it lies deep; and if it be more superficial, the thin gum soon shrinks back over the tooth, leaving it bare, and decays. The cutting of the dentes sapientiae is often attended with an incon- venience which does not attend the others; and this happens, I believe, only when they come very late, viz. when the jaws have left off grow- ing. This arises from the want of room in the jaws for these late teeth ; a circumstance wliich produces an addition to the other inconveniences arising from dentition. When it takes place in the upper jaw, the tooth is often obliged to grow backwards; and in such a position it