OF BUBO. 358 whether from absorption or not, but are most commonly supposed to be venereal, even although there has been no visible preceding cause. This has been so much the case, that all swellings in this part have been sus- pected to be of this nature; femoral ruptures and aneurisms of the fe- moral artery have been mistaken for venereal buboes. I shall call every abscess in the absorbing system, whether in the vessels or the glands, arising in consequence of the absorption of vene- real matter, a bubo. This matter, when absorbed from either of the four different surfaces, which are common surfaces, wounds, inflamed surfaces, and ulcers, is carried along the absorbent vessels to the common circulation, and in its passage often produces the specific inflammation in these vessels, the consequence of which is the formation of buboes, which are venereal abscesses, exactly similar in their nature and effects to a chancre, the only difference being in size. As the absorbents with the glands are immediately irritated by the same specific matter which has undergone no change in its passage, the consequent inflammation must therefore have the same specific quality, and the matter secreted in them be ve- nereal*. As this system of vessels may be divided into two classes, the vessels themselves and their ramifications and convolutions, called the lym- phatic glands, I shall follow' the same division in treating of their in- flammations. Inflammation of the vessels is not nearly so frequent as that of the glands. In men such inflammations, in consequence of chancres upon the glans or prepuce, generally appear like a chord leading along the back of the penis from the chancres. Sometimes they arise from the thickening of the prepuce in gonorrhoeas, that part in such cases being generally in a state of excoriation, as was described when I treated of that form of the disease. These chords often terminate insensibly on the penis, near its root, or near the pubes; at other times they extend further, passing to a lymphatic gland in the groin : this chord can be easily pinched up between the finger and thumb, and it often gives a thickness to the prepuce, making it so stiff at this part as to make the inversion of it difficult, if not impossible, producing a kind of phimosis. I think I have observed this appearance to arise as frequently from the gonorrhoea, when attended with the before-mentioned inflammation and tumefaction of the prepuce, as from chancres; which, if ray obser- * I do not know how far this reasoning will hold good in all cases of poisons, for I very much suspect that the bubo, that is sometimes formed in consequence of inoculation of the smallpox, does not produce variolous matter. The natural poisons, in producing buboes, certainly do not form a poison similar to themselves.