INTRODUCTION. 132 symptomatic fever here, therefore, is an universal sympathy arising from a partial one. The hectic fever is an universal sympathy with a local disease, which the constitution is not able to overcome. This takes place oftener and in a greater degree in the lues venerea than in any other form of the disease. I divide partial sympathy into three kinds ; the remote, the contiguous, and the continuous. The remote is where there appears to be no visible connexion of parts from whence we can account for such effects, as in the case of pain of the shoulder in an inflammation of the liver. The contiguous is that which appears to have no other connexion than what arises from vicinity or contact of separate parts, an instance of which we have in the stomach and intestines sympathising with the integu- ments of the abdomen. The continuous is where there is no interrup- tion of parts, and the sympathy runs along from the irritating point, as from a centre, which is the most common of all sympathies. We have an example of this in the spreading of inflammation. ยง. 2. Of Morbid Actions being incompatible with each other. The venereal disease is not only suspected to be present in many cases where the nature of the disorder is not well marked, but it is sup- posed that it can be combined with other diseases, such as the itch and the scurvy. Thus, we hear of pocky itch and of scurvy and the vene- real disease combined ; but this supposition appears to me to be founded in error. I have never seen any such cases, nor do they seem to be con- sistent with the principles of morbid action in the animal oeconomy. It appears to me, beyond a doubt, that no two actions can take place in the same constitution, or in the same part, at one and the same time. No two different fevers can exist in the same constitution, nor two local diseases in the same part, at the same time ; yet as the venereal disease, when it attacks the skin, bears a resemblance to those symptoms which are vulgarly called scorbutic, they are often supposed to be mixed, and to exist in the same part. What has been called a scorbutic constitution is no more than a con- stitution very susceptible of an action producing eruptions on the skin whenever an immediate cause takes place; and there are some parts of the body more susceptible of this than others, in which, therefore, a slighter immediate cause is sufficient to excite the action ; but the easy susceptibility with respect to one disease is not a reason why a consti- tution should not likewise be susceptible of other diseases. A man may have the pox and the smallpox at the same time; that is, parts of his