155 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. and even has mortified. On the other hand, I have known young men, in whom a sore from common violence has been healed with great dif- ficulty, yet when they had contracted a gonorrhoea or chancre, the dis- ease has been mild and easily curable. In particular people it is either mild or severe, for the most part, uni- formly. In the first-stated dispositions it is not invariably so; but then I believe there is some indisposition at the time. I have known several gentlemen who had their gonorrhoeas so slight in common that they frequently cured themselves. But it has so happened that a gonorrhoea has been remarkably severe, and has obliged them to apply for assist- ance : but tlxen they were soon attacked with the symptoms of a fever; and when the fever has gone off, the symptoms of the gonorrhoea have immediately become mild. I may now also observe, that when the dis- ease is in the form of a lues venerea, different constitutions are differ- ently affected. In some its progress is very rapid, in others it is very slow. CHAPTER IV. OF THE LUES VENEREA BEING THE CAUSE OF OTHER DISEASES. Every animal may be said to have natural tendencies to morbid actions, which may be considered as predisposing causes; and these may be called into action whenever the immediate cause takes place, which may be such as to have no connexion with these tendencies, and cannot there- fore be considered as the cause of the disease. One disease excites another, and therefore is supposed to be the sole cause of it. Thus, slight fevers, or colds, smallpox, and measles, become frequently the immediate cause of scrofula; and certain derangements of the natural actions of the body often bring on the gout, agues, and other diseases: but these diseases will be always more or less, according to the consti- tution and parts; and the constitutions will differ according to circum- stances, which may be numerous ; two of these, however, will be, local situation and age. In this country the tendency to scrofula arises from the climate, which