42 THE NATURAL HISTORY other pulpy substance opposite to that which we have described : it ad- heres to the inside of the capsule, where the gum is joined to it, and its opposite surface lies in contact with the basis of the above-described pulp, and afterwards with the new-formed basis of the tooth. Whatever eminences or cavities the one has, the other has the same, butreversed, so that they are moulded exactly to each other. In the incisores it lies in contact, not with the sharper cutting edge of the pulp or tooth, but against the hollowed inside of the tooth; and in the molares it is placed directly against their base, like a tooth of the opposite jaw. It is thinner than the other pulp, and decreases in proportion as the teeth advance. It does not seem to be very vascular. The best time for examining it is in a foetus of seven or eight months old. In the graminivorous animal, such as the horse, cow, &c., whose teeth have the enamel intermixed with the bony part*, and whose teeth, when forming, have as many interstices as there are continuations of the enamel, we find processes from the pulp passing down into those interstices as far as the pulp which the tooth is formed from, and there coming into contact with it. After the points of the first-described pulp have begun to ossify, a thin covering of enamel is spread over them, which increases in thickness till some time before the tooth begins to cut the gum. The enamel appears to be secreted from the pulp above described, and'perhaps from the capsule which incloses the body of the tooth. That it is from the pulp and capsule seems evident in the horse, ass, ox, sheep, &c., therefore we have little reason to doubt of it in the hu- man species. It is a calcareous earth, probably dissolved in the juices of our body, and thrown out from these parts, which act here as a gland. After it is secreted, the earth is attracted by the bony part of the tooth which is already formed, and upon that surface it crystallizes. The operation is similar to the formation of the shell of the egg, the stone in the kidneys and bladder, and the gall stone. This accounts for the striated crystallized appearance which the enamel has when broken, and also for the direction of these striae f. The enamel is thicker at the points and basis than at the neck of the teeth, which may be easily accounted for from its manner of formation ; for if we suppose it to be always secreting, and laid equally over the * PL V. f. 20,21. + The author has made many experiments on the formation of different calculi, and finds they are formed by crystallisation, which were communicated to his brother, and taught by him to his pupils in 1761, and which he proposes to give to the public as soon as his time will permit.