OF THE TEETH. 99 cause (as it seemed) after six weeks, where there was every reason to suppose that it might have been attended with success. Of the Age of the Person who is to have the Scion Tooth. The socket should be of its full size, and one or two grinders on each side of each jaw should be full grown, to keep the two jaws at a proper distance, which will allow the transplanted tooth to be undisturbed by the motion of the jaw while fastening. This will be at the age of eighteen or twenty years. It sometimes, however, happens that a fore tooth decays before this age, and even before it is completely formed; and therefore all the above- mentioned advantages cannot be had. In such cases it is not very ma- terial whether transplanting is practised or not, as simply to draw the diseased tooth will in most cases be sufficient, for the two neighbouring teeth may be brought together, so as to fill up the space, the others fol- lowing in a less degree, as has been already observed upon irregularities of the teeth. Of the Scion Tooth. The scion tooth, or that which is to be transplanted, should be a full- grown young tooth ; young, because the principle of life and union is much stronger in such than in old ones. It will be scarcely necessary to observe, that the new teeth should always be perfectly sound, and taken from a mouth which has the ap- pearance of that of a person sound and healthy; not that I believe it pos- sible to transplant an infection of any kind from the circulating juices, although we know from experience that it may be done by a matter secreted from them. The scion tooth should be less than what the tooth was, the place of which it is to supply. 'This cannot at first be known with certainty, but it may in most cases be nearly ascertained, and that is by judging from the size of the bodies of the two teeth; but as the fangs do not always bear an exact proportion to the body, it sometimes happens that this method fails. Also it is not always in our power to judge after this manner, for in some cases the body of the tooth of the person who is to have one transplanted shall be quite de- stroyed, the fang only remaining: in these cases we must judge from its correspondent on the opposite side; but even that tooth is sometimes destroyed. It has been supposed that we run no risk by taking the scion tooth from a young subject; but this is no security, for a complete tooth is of h 2