OF THE LUES VENEREA. 453 this last would most probably vomit, as ipecacuanha docs, which vomits whether thrown into the stomach or circulation. Fourthly, all the preparations of mercury, when locally applied, act always in one way, that is, as mercury ; but some have also another mode of action, which is chemical, and which is according to the spe- cific nature of the preparation. The red precipitate is a preparation of this kind, and acts in both these ways: it is either a stimulant or an escharotic. To ascertain whether this opinion of mercury being in solution in our juices was just, I made the following experiments upon myself. I put some crude mercury into my mouth, as a standard, and let it stay there, working it about, so as to render it easier of solution, till I tasted it sensibly ; I then put into my mouth the mercurius calcinatus, and let it remain till I perceived the taste of it, which was exactly the same ; but I observed that it was easier of solution than the crude mercury. I tried calomel in the same way, and also corrosive sublimate, after being diluted with water, and the taste was still the same. It was some time before I perceived the taste of the crude mercury in my mouth. I tasted the calx and calomel much sooner. The corrosive sublimate had at first a mixed taste, but when the acid was diluted it had exactly the same taste with the former: all these different preparations producing the same sensation or taste in the mouth. From the effects of these experiments it would appear that the mer- cury in every one of them was dissolved in the spittle, and reduced to the same preparation or solution. To try whether mercury in the constitution would produce the same taste in the mouth, I rubbed in mercurial ointment upon my thighs till my mouth was affected, and I could plainly taste the mercury; and, as far as I could rely upon my memory, the taste was exactly the same as in the former experiments. 1 allowed some time for my mouth to get perfectly well and free from the taste ; I then took calomel in pills till it was affected again in the same way. I afterwards took mercurius calcinatus, and also corrosive sublimate. All these experiments were attended with the same result; the mercury in every form producing the same taste, which was also exactly the same as when the several preparations were put into the mouth. From the above experiments it must appear, that when mercury pro- duces evacuation by the mouth it certainly goes off in that discharge ; and from thence we may reasonably conclude, that when other evacu- ations are produced from the medicine when in the constitution, as purg-