t Added: "At least 1 know no instance of it."—Home. PART VI. CHAPTER I. OF THE LUES VENEREA. rr f . I HE lues venerea, I have already observed, arises in consequence of the poisonous matter being absorbed and carried into tbe common cir- culation. This form of the disease, which I have called the constitu- tional*, would appear to be much more complicated, both in the differ- ent ways in which it may be caught, and in its effects when caught, than either a gonorrhoea or chancre. It generally arises from the local complaints before taken notice of, the matter being absorbed and car- ried into the constitution. The matter, however, appears to be capable of being taken into the constitution by simple application, without first having produced either of the before-mentioned local effects, as I ob- served in treating of the formation of the bubo; but this seems to be only when it is applied to some particular parts of our body, such as may be called a half-internal surface, as the glans penis. I think it is not capable of being received by the absorbents of the sound skin f; but this is matter only of opinion. It may likewise be received into the constitution by being applied to common ulcers, although not necessarily rendering these ulcers them- selves venereal; also by wounds, as has been observed ; but, 1 believe, always previously producing ulceration in the wound. Many other modes of infection have been supposed, but, I believe, erroneously, such suppositions most probably having taken their rise from ignorance or deceit, two great sources of error in this disease. * The term conttitutional is, perhaps, not strictly a proper term, for by constitutional disease strictly I would understand that in which every part of the body is acting in one way, as in fevers of all kinds, either sympathetic or original; but the venereal poison appears to be only diffused through the circulating fluids, and, as it were, to force cer- tain parts of the body to assume the venereal action, which action is perfectly local, and takes place in different parts in regular succession of susceptibilities; there are but few parts therefore acting at the same lime; and a person may be constitutionally af- fected in this way, and yet almost every function may be perfect.