BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 22 Shelley—TheCompleteWorks In Verse and Prose of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Edited, Prefaced and Anno- tated by R. Herne Shepherd. Five vols., cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 3s. 6d. each. Poetical Works, in Three Vols. Vol. I An Introduction by the Editor; The Posthumous Fragments of Margaret Nichol- son ; Shelley's Correspondence with Stock- dale; The Wandering Jew (the only complete vers.oji); Queen Mab, with the Notes; Alastor. and other Poems; Rosalind and Helen; Prometheus Unbound ; Adonais, &c. V?kni Laon and Cythna (as originally pub- lished, instead of the emasculated "Revolt of Islam ); The Cenci; Julian and Maddalo (irom Shelley's manuscript]; Swellfoot the Tyrant (from the copy in the Dyce Library at South Remington); The Witch of Atlas ; Epipsychidion; Hellas. VoJ; HI- Posthumous Poems, published by Mrs. SHELLEY in 1824 and 1839; The Masque of Anarchy (from Shelley's manuscript); and other Pieces not brought together inthe ordi- nary editions. Prose Works, in Two Vols. Vol. I. The Two Romances of Zastrozzi and St. Irvyne ; the Dublin and Marlow Pamphlets • A Refutation of Deism ; Letters to Leigh Hunt, and some Minor Writings and Fragments. Vol. II. The Essays; Letters from Abroad; Translations and Fragments, Edited by Mrs. Shelley, and first published in 1840, with the addition of some Minor Pieces of great interest and rarity, including one recently I'iscovered by Professor DOWDEN. With a Bibliography of Shelley, and an exhaustive Index of the Prose Works. Sheridan:— Sheridan's Complete Works, with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations, Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full- page Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals, and The School for Scandal. Edited, with an Introduction and Notes to each Play, and a Bio- graphical Sketch of Sheridan, by Brander Matthews. With Decora- tive Vignettes and iofull-pagelllusts. Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete Poetical Works, including all those in "Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial- Introduction, Notes, &c, by the Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth boards, 18s. Signboards: Their History, With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable Characters. By Jacob Larwood and John Camden Hotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with iqo Illustrations, 7a. 6d. Sims (George R.), Works by : Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Rogues and Vagabonds. The Ring o' Bells. Mary Jane's Memoirs. Mary Jane Married. Tales of To-day. [Shortly. Ci. 8vo, picture cover, ls.ea.; cl., ls.6d.ea. The Dagonet Reciter and Reader: Being Readings and Recitations in Prose and Verse, selected from his own Works by G. R. Sims. How the Poor Live; and Horrible London. In One Volume. Sister Dora : A Biography. By Margaret Lonsdale. Popular Edi- tion, Revised, with additional Chap- ter, a New Dedication and Preface, and Four Illustrations. Sq. 8vo, pic- ture cover, 4d.; cloth, 6d. Sketchley.—A Match in the Dark. By Arthur Sketchley. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Slang Dictionary, The: Ety- mological, Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d. Smith (J. Moyr), Worksljy-: The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. (3d. Tales of Old Thule. With numerous Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s. The Wooing of the Water Witch. With Illustrations. Small 8vo, 6s. Society in London. By A Foreign Resident. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Society out of Town. By A Foreign Resident, Author of "So- ciety in London." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [Preparing. Society in Paris: The Upper Ten Thousand. By Count PaulVasili. Trans, by Raphael Ledos de Beau- fort. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. [Preparing. Somerset.—Songs of Adieu. By Lord Henry Somerset. Small 4to, Japanese vellum, 6s. S^igFT(T7W.), Novels byi~ The Mysteries of Heron Dyke With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s. Wife or No Wife? Cr. 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. A Barren Title. Crown 8vo,cl., Is. 6d. The Golden Hoop. Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. By Devious Ways; and A Barren Title. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.