2b FOODS FOR THE FAT. [61- body. The Esquimaux eat fat as we do bread. Dr. Pavy, in his work on ' Dietetics,' says : ' Travellers have dilated on the large amount of food consumed by the inhabitants of cold, as compared with that consumed by those of temperate or hot climates. Accounts are given which almost appear incredible regarding the enormous quantities of food devoured by dwellers in the Arctic regions. Thus Sir John Boss states that an Esquimaux "perhaps eats twenty pounds of flesh and oil daily." Sir W. Parry, as a matter of curiosity, one day tried how much food an Esquimaux lad, scarcely full-grown, would consume if allowed his full tether. The food was weighed, and, besides fluids, he got through in twenty-four hours 8£ lb. of flesh and If lb. of bread, and " did not consider the quantity extraordinary."' 61. Sir George Simpson, from his travelling experience in Siberia, says : ' In one highly important particular the Zakuti may safely challenge the rest of the world. They are the best eaters on the face of the earth.' Having heard more on this subject than he could bring himself to believe, he resolved to test the matter by the evidence of his own senses. He pro- cured a couple of men who had, he states, a tolerable reputa- tion in that way, and prepared a dinner for them, consisting of 36 lb. avoirdupois of beef and 181b. of butter. 62. By the end of an hour they had got through a half of their allowance in Sir George Simpson's presence. Their stomachs at this time projected ' into a brace of kettledrums.' They were then left in charge of deputies, and Sir George was assured, on returning two hours later, that all had been con- sumed. He remarks that after such surfeits, the gluttons remain for three or four days in a state of stupor, neither eating nor drinking, and meanwhile are rolled about with a view to the promotion of digestion. 63. ' He who is well fed,' remarks Sir John Eoss, 'resists cold better than the man who is stinted, while the starvation from cold follows but too soon a starvation in food.' He says further, ' All experience has shown that a large use of