IOt] CORPULENCY. 11 genizing power, by preventing its conversion into carbonic acid and water, and its elimination from the system by the breath. In this way exercise, by rapidly circulating the blood through the lungs, gets rid of fat from the system.* 7. The power of enjoyment is limited in the corpulent person, as exertion is attended with breathlessness, which forbids active exercise. Then, as a matter of course, follows con- stipation (as the muscular tissue of the bowels gets flabby), and piles and varicose veins come to add to the victim's discomfort. The fat man often ails without apparent cause, is more liable to cold and diarrhoea due to the plethoric and congested state of the mucous membranes, and, dependent on a congested state of the system, to giddiness, headache, flushed face, and a bloated countenance. 8. ' The mental activity,' says Dr. Alchin,' of the over-fat is variable, and many external causes tend to modify it; but the temperament is proverbially easy-going, indolent, and lethargic, especially after meals, although very frequently interrupted by attacks of peevishness and irritability, or by unusual somno- lence and quiet. Examples, however, of considerable intellec- tual attainments are not unknown among the corpulent.' 9. The fat man is liable to profuse sweating. This, being highly acid, causes chafing in the groins, with painful eruptions. Where this takes place, the parts become sore and inflamed. He is also more subject to gout, and his urine always contains uric acid to excess ; therefore, the same may be said of his liability to rheumatism. He is more liable to disease than a thin person, with this disadvantage, that ailments in him run a more unfavourable course, and he bears treatment worse. Further, he is more difficult to treat on account of his inability to stand lowering measures, and suffers from debility longer during convalescence. 10. "When too much food is indulged in, the internal organs '* See ' Aids to Long Life,' by the same author, page 193. From that work part of this section has been drawn. The evils of corpulency and other causes of premature decay are treated at length in that book.