FOODS FOR THE FAT. 32 [8;- STIMULANTS IN CORPULENCY. _ 87. What part does alcohol, in its various forms, play in the dietary 1 Chemists who have investigated the effect of alcohol on the system have come to the conclusion that it is not a. food, and does not in any way make flesh or tissue, but in some cases it seems to increase the value of other foods taken. Whether pure alcohol increases or diminishes fat is still a moot point. Some physiologists believe that it assists in eliminating waste products, while others hold that it has no effect of this kind whatever, and that it passes out of the body unchanged. 88. That it is injurious beyond a certain amount is certain, and that amount is represented by about a sixth of a pint of spirits, about half a pint of sherry, or a pint of claret or other light wine daily. As alcohol is contained in all wines and fer- mented drinks, experiments prove that to the other consti- tuents of these beverages we must look for their fattening properties—thus, in wine, to the sugar; and in ale, stout, and other fermented liquors, to the sugar and starch they contain. 89. That beer and stout are unsuited to fat people there can be no question. That the English and Germans who drink largely of beer are more inclined to be corpulent than the Scotch or Irish, who drink more of spirits, is a well-known fact. The stronger beers taken to excess in people of a corpulent habit are also apt to lead to the development of gout and biliousness. 90. It becomes a question now to consider the least in- jurious form in which alcohol may be partaken of by those who require it, or think they do so. To the ordinary indi- vidual, good wine, properly matured, in moderate quantity, is a harmless and exhilarating drink ;* but to those of a corpu- * Especially does this apply to that period of life when the powers of elimination are declining, and the individual, from the exigencies of age and failing strength, is unable to take the active exercise necessary to con- sume the waste products of the body.