ioi.] TEA : ITS USE. 35 given to faintness, nervousness, and depression of spirits, and suffer excessively from flatulence and loss of appetite. This is no doubt partly due to poisons used to colour and adulterate it. Many women ruin their digestive powers by taking large quantities of weak tea three or four times a day. One form of indigestion caused by tea deserves special notice, as it is commonly observed by medical men : the appetite is unim- paired, and no particularly unpleasant sensations are felt after meals, but almost as soon as food is taken it seems to pass out of the stomach into the bowels, causing flatulent, colicky pains, speedily followed by diarrhoea. Hence, there is a constant craving for food and a feeling of sinking and prostration. 99. In some instances, these symptoms only occur in the morning; in others, they follow every meal, and lead to serious loss of flesh, and also to alarm. It is needless to say the remedy is to take less tea, and add plenty of milk to it, or for a time to change to coffee or cocoa. In moderate quantity, tea exerts a very decidedly stimulant and restorative action on the nervous system, which is aided by the warmth of the infusion, and is particularly useful in over-fatigued conditions of the system, and under these circumstances it is infinitely preferable to alcoholic drinks. Lord Wolseley considers it is the best drink for exhausted soldiers after a long march. 100. The harmful effects of tea depend a great deal on the way it is made. If it is allowed to infuse too long, the tannin and other injurious ingredients of even the best tea are drawn out, and the infusion becomes bitter and astringent, and un- pleasant to the taste. To make tea properly, the teapot should be warmed, and the water poured over the tea im- mediately it boils. Five teaspoonfuls of mixed tea should be put to each quart of boiling water, and it should draw for eight minutes. Professional tea-tasters are very particular to use only water which is freshly boiled. 101. In China tea is sometimes infused in a teacup, and sometimes in the cup from which it is drunk. In Japan the 3—2