18 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [3o- into three meals—breakfast, lunch, and dinner; or breakfast, dinner, and tea, according to the habits of the individual— and the amount of starchy or farinaceous food is here so limited as even in extreme cases to be practically harmless. 30. A diet of this kind would be unendurable if there were no variety; but the endeavour of the author has been to give a large variety, once more reminding the sufferer that food formed on this basis requires a larger amount of exercise to keep the system in health than does the ordinary every-day diet of ordinary people. 31. Taking Mr. Banting's system first. The diet for re- ducing corpulency advocated by him is now considered to have been wrong, for it threw too much work upon the kidneys and starved the system elsewhere. Banting and his ideas have passed into well-merited oblivion. 32. The Ebstein formula, which has many adherents in Germany, consists in very much restricting the food eaten, giving a large portion of fat, and curtailing those articles of diet that contain sugar and starch, his theory being that fat assists in the body, by its transformation into heat, in elimi- nating other materials. It is not believed now that fat creates fat. It is believed that by its combustion in the economy it keeps up heat, and at the same time oxidizes waste, much in the same way as, if man were a railway engine, the blast of air acts on the fuel used in stoking. 33. The system of diet advocated by Oertel not only pro- vides for the gradual decrease of fat, but also prevents its reaccummulation, and at the same time restores tone to the heart, muscular and nervous systems, which excessive cor- pulency much impairs. 34. A very moderate curtailment on this sj'stem will be sufficient to reduce a corpulent person to respectable dimen- sions, if at the same time active riding or walking exercise be taken. Recreation, by improving the quality of the blood, as well as by circulating it more rapidly, assists the oxidation— i.e., the consumption of tissue, especially of fatty tissue—and