94.] STIMULANTS IN CORPULENCY. 33 lent habit of body, certain wines are a slow poison, and it becomes necessary in a work like this to say a few words on so important a subject. 91. The deleterious wines for people constitutionally dis- posed to stoutness are those which contain sugar, either by arrest of fermentation or by the addition of sugar, and these are, as a rule, the products of hot countries. In France, Germany, or Hungary, etc., where a cooler climate prevails, fermentation occurs with less rapidity, and is allowed to pi'oceed till it comes to a spontaneous termination. 92. ' Here, then, the transformation of saccharine matter is permitted to go on until it is quite, or nearly lost, and in con- sequence there is produced a drier or less fruity wine, and one which takes less time to mature.' Wines of this class develop a stronger bouquet and a more acid flavour, and they are admitted to be in every way more suited for stout people of sedentary habit. The wines of the Ehine and the Moselle are noted for the aroma they possess, and the greater amount of acid they contain, and their freedom from sugar. The same applies to some of the wines of the South of France known as clarets and burgundies. 93. Burgundies suit best those who require an excess of alcoholic strength ; but they do not keep well, and sometimes undergo a second fermentation, through mouldiness in the bottle. The grand old vintage wines, such as Chambertin,* Clos Vougeot, etc., are sufficiently alcoholized not to decompose, but their strength and price do not fit them for ordinary consumption. The peculiar odour of wall-flowers is character- istic of the choicer burgundies, but they are necessarily of high price. 94. The choice Rhine wines — moselle, chablis, chateau Yquem—bear carriage badly and are best drunk in their own country; but there are plenty of good claret and light wine brands to which this does not apply. The wines to be miouJmanr.eat Nap°leon drank this wine' bufc he was an exceedingly abste-