j/e22101425169Med K9027Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28098663SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHESWORKS BY MRS DE SALIS SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Fifth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. ij. boards. ENTREES A LA MODE. Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. IS. 6d. boards. SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE, Fcp. 8vo. ij. 6d. boards. OYSTERS A LA MODE ; or, the Oyster and over One Hundred Ways of Cooking it; to which are added a few Recipes for Cooking all kinds of Shelled Fish. Crown 8vo. IS. 6d. boards. SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. Fcp. 8vo. i^. 6d. boards. London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE VN MRS DE SALIS AUTHORESS OF ‘SAVOURIES X LA MODE’ ‘ENTRIES A LA MODE ‘soups and dressed fish a la mode’ ‘oysters X LA mode’ ‘Bs tbc last taste of sweets is sweetest last’ Shakespeare LONDON LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. AND NEW YORK : 15 EAST i6th STREET 1888 All rights reservedPRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDON WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. CxTPREFACE. In offering my fifth small volume on culinary matters, which finishes the series, I shall hope to obtain the continued approval I have hitherto re- ceived from the public, I have compiled the best recipes from all sources, varied now and again by an original con- ception. If at any time my readers should wish to cor- respond with me on the gastronomic art, or on what is now a leading accessory to the dinner table, viz. Floral Decorations, I shall be most happy to communicate with them. HARRIET A. de SALTS. 71 Warwick Road, Earl’s Court, S.W. January 1888.SWEETS A LA MODE. Amsterdam Pudding. Ponding a I’Amsterdam. Beat two ounces of butter, two of sweet almonds (ground), and one and a half ounce of sugar. Mix, and beat all to a cream with two whole eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; decorate a buttered mould with raisins, currants, and candied peel, and mix into the batter before filling the mould a good wineglass of rum. Bake it and serve hot or cold. Apple Cream. Crbne aux Pommes. Whip a pint of cream, and flavour with half a pound of apples which have been stewed with sugar, rubbed through a sieve, and allowed to become cold ; add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Mix all together, and pour it into a mould. When firm, turn it out and pour sauce round it, made with two spoonfuls of apricot jam, two of boiling water, and two of sherry, all mixed together and rubbed through a sieve.SWEETS A LA MODE. Apricot Charlotte Russe. ChailotLe Russe aux Abricots. Line a plain mould with some finger sponge biscuits. Make one pint of apricot puree ; put it into a basin, with three-quarters of a pound of castor sugar and one ounce of gelatine previously- dissolved in one gill of water ; put the basin on the ice, and work the contents with a spoon till the puree begins to freeze, then add one quart of well- whipped cream. Mix, and fill the mould with the apricot cream, and cover it with a baking sheet with some ice on the top for an hour, then turn it out. Banana Fritters aux Pistaches. Beignets de Bananas aux Pistaches. Teel some bananas, cut them in halves, put them into a basin and sprinkle over them a little Scotch whisky and a little chopped lemon peel. Sprinkle over this with castor sugar, and let it .so remain for an hour. Dip each piece in a frying batter (see Batter), and fry in clean boiling fat till a golden colour ; remove then from the pan, drain and dust over with icing sugar, and put in the oven to glaze. When done sprinkle with finely chopped pistachio kernels, and serve very hot on a dish paper. Bananas with Rum. Bananas au Rhuin. Peel six large bananas, cut them across in thick slices ; put an ounce and a half of butter in a stew- pan, and when it is melted throw in the bananas. There should be just enough butter to moisten and3 SWEETS A LA MODE. soak into the fruit. Drain away any butter there may be left, then stir in two good tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Heat a gill of thick cream and add to it a tablespoonful of rum. When the bananas are sufficiently cooked in the butter, stir in the cream and rum. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and be careful it does not boil after the cream has been added. Mix quickly, and serve hot with sponge rusks. Bananas with Whipped Cream. Bananas a la Cmne Frappee. Stew some bananas in syrup. Cut some slices of bread the length and breadth of the bananas, fry in butter, and drain carefully. When these are crisp, spread them with confiture of some sort, and lay a stewed banana on each strip; arrange them in a compote dish, and cover them with whipped cream flavoured with ginger brandy. Barberry Cream. Creme a I’Epine Vinette. Take half a pint of barberry jelly and half an ounce of isinglass, and mix it with a pint of cream. Stir over a slow fire till the isinglass is dissolved. When removed from the fire, add a little cochi- neal, sweeten to taste, beat to a froth, and pour into a mould to set. Barberry Jelly. Gelee a TEpine Vinette. The fruit .should be quite ripe. Strip the berries, wash them in clear spring water, and put4 SIVEJ^TS A LA MODE, them into a jar with only the water that clings to them. Place the jar in a vessel of boiling water, cover the top of the jar, and in one hour they will be fit to strain. To every pound of juice put one pound and a quarter of sugar ; boil quickly for five minutes. Bavarois of Rice aux Peches. Bavarois de Riz aux Peches. Stew two ounces of Carolina rice in a pint and a half of new milk, and four ounces of sugar, and eight drops of essence of vanilla for half an hour ; make half a pint of custard with the yolks of three eggs and half a pint of new milk ; stir it over the fire till it thickens. Mix this with-the rice when cooked, also six sheets of the white-leaf gelatine (dissolved in a gill of water), whilst hot, and let it get cold, but not set; add to it half the bulk of whipped cream and fill a mould ; put it on the ice and let it get cold. Cut out the centre with a round cutter and fill with peach pulp ; warm the mixture which was cut out of the centre and cover over the fruit in the mould ; let it get cold, and turn out. Biscuits Glacis. Make a custard of the yolks of six eggs and three-quarters of a pint of milk. When quite cold add a quarter of a pint of whipped cream, the whites of two eggs beaten to snow, and three small sponge cakes cut into pieces ; season with liqueur. Have in readine.ss small paper cases; place them in a flat tin box, fill them with the mixture, and put the lid on the box, which must close very tightly. Immerse in ice for three or four hours.5 SWEETS A LA MODE. Bread Meringue. Meringue au Pain. Take half a pound of stale bread and put it in a lined saucepan with a pint and a gill of milk. Let it boil slowly, then beat it thoroughly with a fork to free it from lumps, until it is perfectly smooth. Add some lump sugar (on which has been grated the zest of a lemon) to taste, two ounces of butter, and the yolks of three eggs. Mix all together, put into a small pie dish, and bake till a light brown. Spread over the top a layer of greengage or any other jam. Take the whites of three eggs, add a pinch of salt, and whisk till they are a stiff froth ; pile the whip on the top of the pudding, sift a little castor sugar over, and return to the oven for a few minutes. Well watch, so that the whip should not turn brown. Drop a crystallised cherry in each crevice of the icing, and put cross bars of strips of angelica between, which makes the pudding very ornamental. Brown Bread Souffle. Pain l3is Souffle. Beat two ounces of butter to cream and add gradually ten yolks of eggs, one and a half ounce of sugar, a little powdered cloves, some grated lemon-peel and four ounces of grated brown bread- crumbs, one ounce of picked currants, and the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs lightly stirred in. Bake for one hour. This is enough for a large dinner party; half these cjuantities are generally sufficient.SWEETS A LA MODE. 6 Cabinet Pudding. Pouding de Cabinet. Butter a pudding mould, and garnish with raisins, citron peel cut in slices, and dried cherries ; fill the mould with alternate layers of sponge cakes, ratafias, macaroons, and the fruits, and then pour into it an uncooked custard made of the yolks of six eggs, two whole eggs, half a pound of sugar, a pint of milk, a glass of sherry, and the rind of one lemon grated ; simmer the pudding in water nearly boiling, but be careful not to let the pudding boil. When done, turn it out, and serve with half a pint of syrup flavoured with sherry. This pudding can be put in ice and served cold, and called Iced Cabinet Pudding. o Caramel Custards. Take four cupfuls of boiled milk ; put it into a basin with one cupful of caramel prepared as follows :—take half a pound of pounded sugar, stir over the fire till it becomes a dark brown colour, add one cupful of water ; boil one minute till the sugar is dissolved, add four yolks of eggs and one ounce of pounded sugar. Mix well and strain. Pour this into a basin or jar, skim off carefully all froth from the surface, put the jar in a flat stewpan with boiling water; put this on a very slow fire for fifteen minutes—the water should only just bubble. When set let the custards cool in water. Coffee custards are made the same, only with one cupful • of very strong coffee instead of the caramel.SlF£/rrS A LA MODE. 7 Caramel Pudding (Superior). Ponding au Caramel (.Superieur). Make a custard with two ounces of castor sugar, three raw yolks of eggs, two whites beaten, a quarter of a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and half a pint of rich milk ; mix these ingredients together and strain. Tut half a pound of castor sugar into a basin and fill it up with a breakfastcupful of water to melt the sugar. Then set it on the fire to boil, stirring it constantly and removing the scum that may arise when it Jias become a syrup and begins to look white and bubble up; pour in the juice of a lemon free from pips, and never leave off stirring till it gets a deep golden colour. To .sec when it is done dip the handle of a knife into it, then im- mediately into cold water ; it will harden and be- come brittle. Have prepared a mould oiled with sweet almond oil, and to ornament it take two silver forks together, back to back; dip them in the caramel, and draw some of it out in threads, which can be laced about the mould in all directions. The caramel must be kept hot all this time by placing the saucepan in another with hot water. \Vhen the sugar threads are dry in the mould pour in some of the liquid caramel, and roll the mould round and round to make it cover all the side ; then stand the caramel in cold water to set it, and pour in the custard. Steam till firm, turn out and serve.8 SWEETS A LA MODE. Caramel Pudding. Ponding au Caramel. Put a handful of loaf sugar to boil with a gill of water until the syrup becomes a deep brown ; warm a small basin, pour the syrup into it, and keep turning the basin in your hand till the inside is completely coated with the syrup, which will by this time have set ; strain the yolks of six eggs from the whites, and mix them gradually and effec- tually with one pint of milk ; pour this mixture into the prepared mould, lay a piece of paper on the top. Set it in a saucepan full of cold water, taking care that the water doespiot come over the top of the mould. Put on the cover and let it boil gently at the side of the fire for one hour. Remove the saucepan to a cool place, and when the water is quite cold take out the mould and turn the pud- ding out carefully. To make it turn out firmer two whites of the eggs can be used. Castle Baskets. Corbeilles de Fantaisie. Weigh two eggs in the shell, and take the same weight of butter, sugar, and Vienna flour ; beat the sugar to a cream, and beat the whites and yolks together for ten minutes, and mix them lightly with the butter ; add the sugar, then the flour, also some grated lemon-peel and a few drops of some flavouring essence. Bake for twenty minutes in small dariole moulds, turn them out, and let them get cold. Carefully scoop out the middles, cover the outsides with apricot jam, and roll them in9 SWEETS A LA MODE. centrifugal sugar; put a dessertspoonful of jam into each case, make a whip of cream sugar and a few drops of lemon, and fill each case with it well piled up. Cut angelica in strips to form handles to the baskets, and place preserved cherries on the top of the whip. Champagne Jelly. Gelee au Champagne. Soak one ounce and a half of gelatine in half a pint of water for eighteen minutes ; then add the juice and rind of one lemon, two ounces of castor sugar, and the white of an egg. Whisk all together over the fire till it boils, add a spoonful of cold water ; set it by the side of the fire for about five minutes, then strain through a piece of thick muslin previously wrung out of hot water. Put the gelatine into a basin ; pour a quart of cham- pagne over the gelatine and pour into a shape. When firm dip the shape in tepid water and turn out. Chantilly Basket. Make a cement of syrup and white of egg. Have some macaroons, of which dip the edges into it, and line a mould with them, taking care that the edges of the macaroons touch each other. When wanted take it out of the mould, fill it with whipped cream and preserved fruits, and it is then ready. Chartreuse of Apricots. Chartreuse d’Abricots. Take a tin of preserved apricots; turn out the contents into a saucepan ; add six ounces of sugarlo SlVIiETS A LA MODE. half a pint of water, and a glass of wine ; let them boil up, strain the syrup, take out the kernels, re- move the outer skin carefully from the apricots, and leave them to get cold ; add one pint of the syrup and sixteen sheets of best French gelatine steeped in a little water, boil up the whole, and clarify with two whites and shells of eggs. Have two plain moulds, one about one inch and a quarter larger than the other ; pour a very little jelly into the bottom of the larger mould and let it cool ; then place in it a layer of the apricots and a few of the kernels split; cover this with more jelly, but only just enough to get a smooth surface. Lay this on ice to set; when it is quite firm put the smaller mould inside the larger one, taking care to place it exactly in the middle, so that the vacant space between the two moulds may be of the same width all round. In this vacant place dispose slices of apricots and the rest of the kernels, filling up the interstices with the jelly until all the space is filled up. Place the mould upon ice ; whip a pint of cream with half an ounce of dissolved isinglass and some of the aj)ricot syrup, which must be added to it a very little at a time or the cream will not rise to a froth. When the cream is ready and the jelly set, remove the inner mould by pouring warm water into it and fill up the inner space with the cream. Set on ice for an hour and turn out. Chartreuse of Strawberries. Cliartreuse de Fraises. Have a quart of lemon jelly. Free a quantity of large strawberries from the stalks, and cut in.SLVEETS A LA MODE. ii half lengthwise ; warm the jelly sufficiently to pour out. Have two plain moulds, one about an inch and a quarter more in diameter than the other. Pour a very little jelly at the bottom of the larger mould, let it cool, then place on it a layer of straw- berries ; cover with more jelly, but only enough to get a plain surface ; lay this on ice to set. When it is quite firm, put the smaller mould inside, so that the vacant space between the two moulds be of the same width. In this space dispose straw- berries as before, filling up each time with jelly till all is filled up. Place the mould on ice, whip a pint of cream, dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a very little water, mix it with a large cup- ful of sweetened strawberry juice (obtained by mashing the fruit and passing through a tammy) ; add this to the whipped cream a little at a time when the cream is ready and the jelly set; remove the inner mould by pouring warm water into it. Fill up the inner space with the cream, set on ice, and turn out. Cherry Jelly. Gelee de Cerises. Pound in a mortar two pounds of ripe cherries with one pound of red currants ; add half a pint of .syrup, and strain through thick muslin ; add one ounce of melted gelatine. Mix all together and put into a mould. Cherry Brandy Jelly. Gelee au Kirsch. Pick and stone one pound of black or dark red cherries. Boil some syrup, put the cherries into it,SWEETS A LA MODE. 12 boil for five minutes, and pour the whole into a basin ; clarify two ounces of gelatine with three- quarters of a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, two whites and shells of eggs, and two pints of water in the usual way ; add two gills of cherry brandy to the jelly when cold. Break about forty or fifty cherry stones, blanch and peel the kernels, drain the cherries well, put a mould on ice, pour in a little jelly, put a row of cherries on this ; go on filling the mould with alter- nate layers of jelly and cherries, throwing in some of the kernels whilst filling it. Put on ice, &c. Chocolate Eclairs. Eclairs au Chocolat. Dissolve one ounce of butter in two ounces of water, add one and a half ounce of flour and mix well together over the fire ; then remove from the fire and mix in, one at a time, three whole eggs and a pinch of salt; add to it three ounces of sugar, work it up with a wooden spoon into twelve rolls of this mixture about four inches long and half an inch wide and deep ; place them carefully on a greased baking-tin, cover the whole with pounded sugar and shake it all off again. The paste will not leave the sheet; bake it to a nice golden colour. Whip some cream flavoured with chocolate, add a little pounded sugar, rub through a fine hair sieve. Make a hole at one end of the eclairs and force in some of this mixture, and cover them with chocolate icing.SWEETS A LA MODE. Chocolate Pudding (Rich). Pouding de Chocolat. Boil a pint of cream, and put into it three- quarters of a pound of grated bread-crumbs ; add to this whilst on the fire half a pound of butter ; mix well. Then take it off the fire, and let it cool; then add the yolks of twelve eggs, and half a pound of grated chocolate, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Lastly, stir the whites of eight eggs, and stir all well up together. Butter a mould, and grate a few crumbs, and lightly throw over the inside of the mould ; pour in the mixture and bake for half an hour. In .serving, grate a little chocolate over, and serve the following sauce round it: half a pint of cream, a small teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar. Whip all these together till it froths, and serve round the pudding. Chocolate Souffle. Souffle au Chocolat. Take a small tablespoonful of corn flour, mix it smooth with a gill of milk ; add two ounces of white sugar and two ounces of butter; stir well over fire till it boils. When cool, stir in the yolks of three eggs and one ounce of grated chocolate. Mix all together till quite smooth ; beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and stir it into the mixture ; put in a souffle tin or dish and bake it in a slow oven for forty minutes,M SWEETS A LA MODE. Christmas Plum Pudding-. Stone one and a half pound of raisins, half a pound of sultanas, one pound of currants. Chop very finely a pound of beef suet, grate a pound of bread crumbs and a tcaspoonful of grated lemon peel; mix all these ingredients thoroughly together. Shred finely half a pound of candied peel, and slice thinly, but good-sized pieces, half a pound of citron ; mix these in. Then mix in two ounces of finely shredded sweet almonds, a teaspoonful of mixed spice, enough flour to bind, and then beat up ten large eggs in a little milk, and pour into the mixture. Well stir, then pour in half a pint of old rum and half a pint of good brandy. Stir well for half an hour. Then put into the basin and let it boil for sixteen hours about a fortnight before it is wanteci ; the day it is required boil it for two hours. Brandy Sauce for Plum Pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of very fresh butter, beat it to a cream, add two and a half ounces of crushed loaf sugar, add a glass of sherry and a small glass of brandy ; mix all together. The spirit must be added but a little at a time. Claret Jelly. Gclee au Vin de Bordeaux. Soak an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of water for twenty minutes ; then put it into a saucepan, and add a quart of claret, three-quartersSJF/i/iTS A LA MODE. 15 of a pound of white sugar, the rind and juice of one large lemon, and a teaspoonful of raspberry jelly. Mix well together ; then set the pan on a slow fire, and stir the jelly till nearly boiling ; then strain through muslin into a basin ; add a glass of brandy and stir it till nearly cold ; then pour it into a mould. When set, turn out. Cocoanut Pudding. Ponding de Cacao. Melt together, over a slow fire, two ounces of fresh butter and four pounds of white sugar. Pour them out after boiling two minutes, and add two ounces of desiccated cocoanut, one ounce of citron shred small, the grated rind of half a large lemon, and four eggs. When these ingredients have been well beaten together, add the strained juice of the half-lemon ; put the mixture into a buttered mould and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour ; turn out and cover with white icing and ornament with French fondants and apricot jam. Coffee Cannelons. Mix two ounces of ground with two ounces of very fine white sugar and a dessertspoonful of flour, and add the beaten white of an egg to make a paste. Take pieces about the size of a chestnut and roll them out very thinly ; place them on a greased baking sheet and bake them in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. When they arc warm turn them over a ruler or round a stick to shape them, and slip them on a sieve to dry. Theyt6 SWEETS A LA MODE. make a very good dessert dish or can be used as a sweet entremets. Coffee Charlotte Russe. Charlotte Russe au Cafe. Line a mould with Savoy cakes ; take half a pound of freshly roasted coffee. Boil one quart of cream ; put the coffee in it, and let it stand in a warm place for an hour. Put six yolks of egg in a stewpan with half a pound of castor sugar, strain in the coffee cream, and stir over the fire until the eggs begin to thicken. Soak three-quarters of an ounce of leaf gelatine in cold water, drain and add it to the cream ; stir till the gelatine is melted, strain through a tammy into a basin, and stir the cream on ice till it begins to thicken ; add one quart of well-whipped cream and fill the mould, and let it remain on ice for an hour. Coffee Cream. Creme au Cafe. Mix the yolks of six eggs, strained, with three ounces of castor sugar, one pint of very strong and clear coffee, and one pint of milk ; put this mixture on the fire in a double saucepan, the outer one filled with water, and keep stirring until the cream thickens ; dissolve in a little milk one ounce of best P'rench gelatine, add this to the cream strained, and pour it into a mould and set on ice. Apricot, strawberry, pine-apple, can all be made in a similar way.17 SWEETS A LA MODE. Compote of Chestnuts. Compote de Matrons. Boil about twenty chestnuts in a pint of milk with a gill of water. When tender skin them and pound them. Put four ounces of white sugar into a small saucepan with half a teacupful of water. Boil it till it peels. Then put it over the chestnuts in the mortar; pound them to a smooth paste. Whip up half a pint of cream and place it in the centre of a compote dish. Place a coarse wire sieve over it and rub the pounded chestnuts through the sieve on to the cream, keeping it high in the centre. Boil three oranges in water for half an hour ; put the rind, juice, and pulp into a pan ; add the same weight of sugar with a spoonful of maraschino. Boil for ten minutes ; when cold put it round the chestnuts and serve. Conservative Pudding. Ponding Conservative, Decorate a pudding mould with preserved cherries and angelica, then line it with thin slices of sponge cake ; put a layer of fruit between each layer of cake till the mould is half full. Then fill up with custard and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with whip sauce made by putting two yolks of eggs into a small pan ; add an ounce and a half of white sugar, a glass of sherry or marsala, the rind and juice of half a lemon, and a spoonful of water; whisk on the stove till it thickens to the consistency of cream. ci8 SWEETS A LA MODE Cranberry Jelly. Wash the cranberries thoroughly ; take a pound of them and cook them in a stewpan with half a pint of water and half a pound of sugar, and let them boil for half an hour ; add a few drops of cochineal and half an ounce of best French gelatine, and a wineglassful of maraschino syrup. Pour it into a mould set on ice for an hour or so, and turn out when required. Danish Jelly. Gelee Danoise. Take three-quarters of a pint of claret, half a pint of marsala, half a pint of brandy, half a pint of syrup of cherries, two ounces of castor sugar, the juice and peel of one lemon, and one ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in a gill of cold water. Mix these ingredients well, boil, and strain into a mould. The jelly must not boil quickly, or the colour will be spoilt. Place on ice and turn out. Some- times a rich custard sauce flavoured with vanilla is served with it. Diplomatic Pudding. T’ouding Diplomatique. Line the mould with different-coloured jelly, placing pale jelly on the top ; set this on ice to get cold. Then take a pint of milk and four eggs and make a custard. Dissolve nine sheets of gelatine in half a gill of water, and put the custard to get cool, putting in the gelatine first. Strain the mixture over biscuits in a basin, five and a half ofSIVEKTS A LA MODE. 19 sponge fingers and two ounces of ratafias, and let them soak some time, but they must not boil. Duchess Loaves. Talniouses a la Duchesse. Put half a pint of milk into a stewpan with five ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of chopped almonds, and a little lemon juice. Place the pan upon the fire and stir it until it boils for about three minutes. Mix in three eggs one at a time. Divide the mix- ture into small round balls the size of a pigeon’s egg ; place them on a baking sheet spread with butter, and bake to a light brown colour. When cold make an incision down the sides and fill the loaves with strawberry jam, sprinkle with desic- cated cocoa-nut, dish up, and send to table. Plane of Peaches. Flanc de Peches. Make some good compote syrup ; stone some peaches or apricots and fill in the spaces with vanilla cream ; then boil them up in the syrup, reducing the syrup to the consistency of thick cream strained, and when cool pour over the fruit. Have some pistachio kernels blanched and cut into halves, quartered again, and stick the peaches or apricots all over with them hedgehog fashion. Dish them in a circle on some iced cream that has been moulded into a border form and fill up the centre with glace cherries. Apples, oranges, and large plums may be dressed in a similar way, but fill up apples with preserved ginger.20 SWEETS A LA MODE. Frontignac Jelly. Gelee de Frontignac. Clarify some gelatine as directed for fruit jelly (see below), and add three gills of still moselle. Take some muscatel grapes and some black Ham- burg grapes ; cook them in some syrup and drain them on a sieve. Put a mould on the ice and fill it with the jelly, adding alternately the grapes. Cover with a tin plate, on which put some ice, and leave it for two hours, then turn out and serve. Fruit Jelly with Champagne. Gelee de Fruit a la Champagne. Put two ounces of gelatine with three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar into a stewpan. Beat up the whites of two eggs, moisten them with one quart of water and the juice of a lemon ; add the shells and pour the whole into the stewpan with the gelatine; put it on the fire, stirring with a wire whisk till it boils. Take the jelly off the fire, let it cool for a few minutes, and strain it through a jelly bag ; pour it back and strain again till it is perfectly clear. When quite cold add one pint of champagne or saumur ; if in the fruit season prepare a macedoine or salad of strawberries, apricots, grapes, peaches, currants, &c. (if in the winter use apples and pears cut to an olive shape and boiled in a syrup, dried cherries, preserved apricots, and greengages). Get a plain mould, pour in one-eighth inch thickness of the jelly ; when set add a layer of the fruit prettily arranged and pour in sufificient jelly to cover it, and continue the layers of fruit and jelly till the mould is nearly full; then let it set a little andSWEETS A LA MODE. 21 finish with jelly only. Cover it with a baking sheet and surround it with ice for two hours, turn out, and serve. Fruit-syrup Sauce. Simmer the fruit, whatever it may be, in a sauce- pan ; pass the pulp through a hair sieve; sweeten to taste and flavour with a very little lemon juice or wine. Gateau aux Pistaches. Make a creme patissiere as follows : Break two eggs into a stewpan, with a little salt and as much sifted flour as they will take up ; mix in a pint of new milk; put it on the fire; stir constantly, that it may not stick ; then add a piece of butter the size of a walnut; put it into a dish and rub a little butter over it, that it may not harden on the out- side ; then blanch a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts and sweet almonds ; pound them together, occasionally adding a drop of water to prevent their oiling. When smooth add a paste made of a spoonful of blanched spinach pressed in butter, beaten, and rubbed through a colander, and put all this into the creme patissiere, which should have as much flour in it as it will take. Add three-quarters of a pound of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of orange- flower water, four whole eggs, six yolks, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter. Mix all well together. Whip the four whites, mix them in lightly. Butter a stewpan and powder it all over with fine bread crumbs, put in the mixture, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Serve at once.22 SWEETS A LA MODE. Gateau of Rhubarb. Gateau de Rhubarbe. Take a pound of rhubarb and cut it into lengths ; put them into a stewpan with half a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, and the juice strained with three ounces of sugar. Let it boil till the rhubarb is .soft, stirring occasionally ; pa.ss all through a hair sieve. Have an ounce of gelatine melted in half a gill of water, which must be stirred into the rhubarb puree ; put in a few drops of cochineal and put it into the mould. Time to boil the rhubarb, about fifteen minutes. Apples, gooseberries, apricots, currants, straw- berries can all be made into a similar gateau. Gateau a la Parisienne. Get a fluted or melon-shaped sponge cake ; scoop out the inside, after cutting off a slice at the bottom, and fill up the vacant place with any kind of fruit puree ; put the slice on to keep the puree in; glaze all over with mocha or coffee icing, and ornament before the icing has quite set with little silver balls, pistachio kernels, and dried cherries. Dish it up with whipped cream all round the base and shredded pistachios sprinkled over. German Sandwiches. Tartines Allcmandes. Take six ounces of castor sugar, the same quantity of flour, six eggs, and six ounces of fresh butter ; mix all together but the butter, which must^3 SJP'/tFTS A LA MODE. be. melted and not added till cold or nearly so ; beat all well together for half an hour, then spread on a tin and bake from ten to twenty minutes, according to the state of the oven, which ought to be rather slow. When done cut with a sharp knife any sizes liked for the sandwiches ; spread jam on them when quite cold. These will keep a week if kept in a closed tin Ginger Souffle. Souffle de Gingembre. Take a quarter-pound of potato flour, a quarter- pound of butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, a quarter-pound of preserved ginger, and the peel of one lemon ; warm this mixture on the stove, stirring till quite smooth, then add one pint of milk. Take the yolks of six eggs and mix them in one by one ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and fill the souffle case with this mixture. Bake for about twenty minutes and serve before it falls. Golden Balls. Balles Dorees. Take one ounce of sweet almonds, two of bitter blanched and pounded, three tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, two ounces of fine bread crumbs, two well-whisked eggs. Mix well together; add an ounce of butter beaten to cream. Then half fill a mould or small moulds and bake twenty minutes in a eentle oven.24 SJVE/tTS A LA MODE. Green Figs (Compote of). Stew in a pint of compote syrup for three minutes a dozen small green figs and serve with whipped cream. Iced Coffee. Cafe Glace. Put into a pan one gallon of cold water, a large bottle of Branson’s essence of coffee, half a pound of lump sugar, and the whites of two eggs. Mix well together ; place the pan on the stove and bring it gently to the boil. Strain it through a napkin. When cold add one pint of boiled milk and half a pint of thick cream ; then pour it into a freezer and freeze it: let it remain in ice for three hours. Iced Coffee (another way). Cafe Glace. Take a small bottle of Ih'anson’s essence of coffee and pour one pint and a half of boiling water over it, and let it stand for about ten minutes ; then add six ounces of castor sugar, half a pint of single cream, and a quarter-pint of warmed milk. Then put in the refrigerator for a couple of hours. Iced Cream Souffle. Souffle Glace. Whip a pint of thick cream, add a wine-glass- ful of maraschino ; beat the whites of four eggs to snow and mix them lightly with the cream. Then pour into a souffle dish, which surround with aSIVEETS A LA MODE. 25 band of paper two inches higher than the dish. Then bury it in ice for some hours or use one of Marshall’s freezing machines. Iced Custard Pudding. Make a rich custard in the usual way, and when cold add some crystallised cherries and pieces of angelica, and freeze in one of Mrs. Marshall’s freez- ing machines ; then mould it and embed it in ice till required ; then turn it out and strew over it shred pistachio kernels and desiccated cocoa-nut. Iced Gooseberry Fool. Pick and cut the ends off one pound of green gooseberries ; stew them in half a pint of syrup until soft, then rub through a hair sieve; add some green colouring and a pint of good cream and freeze. Make the syrup of two pounds of white sugar with half a quart of water whisked up with a tea- spoonful of the white of an egg ; let the sugar dis- solve, stirring it up ; then put the pan on the fire and stir it with a sugar spoon till it boils; put it on the side of the fire, and as it boils add at different times another half-pint of water ; this causes the egg to come to the top, and after two minutes’ boil- ing the syrup will come quite clear ; then strain it through a napkin and it will be ready for use. Iced Rice (Mould of). Take six and a half ounces of well-washed Carolina rice and soak it in one and a quarter pint of cream with a single teaspoonful of essence of vanilla and a pinch of salt. Add sugar and boilSIVEETS A LA MODE. 26 the mixture till the rice is soft but the grains separate. Add the solution of one and a quarter ounce of isinglass in water and a glass of curacoa or maraschino, and put the dish on ice and let it thicken, stirring repeatedly. Mix with it three-cpiarters of a pint of whipped cream, put it into a mould and let it freeze. Turn the rice out when ready for serving and decorate with preserved fruits or preserved ginger. Ice Pudding. Ponding Glace. Make a custard with a pint of milk or cream, the yolks of three eggs, two ounces of sugar, and a tea- spoonful of vanilla essence; then mix it thoroughly with half a pint of whipped cream ; freeze to 22° ; then have ready two ounces of crystallised cherries and slices of pineapple cut small, which have been soaked in syrup with two ounces of royal biscuits. Tut a layer of the ice cream in the mould, then a layer of the sweetmeats and biscuits, and so on till the mould is full, pressing down each layer. Place buttered paper on the top and butter round the edges, and embed in ice till wanted. Iced Rice a ITmperatrice. Blanch half a pound of Carolina rice in boiling water, drain, and put it in a stewpan with three pints of boiled cream and three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; simmer gently for an hour. Make a mix- ture of pears, pineapple, apricots, greengages, and cherries. Put a mould on the ice ; put the rice in it and work it with a spoon till it is nearly frozen ;SlVEE'l'S A LA MODE. 27 then add very stiff whites of egg in which some boiling sugar has been poured, whipping all the time. Continue working, and when the rice is frozen add the fruits, mix, and put all into another mould ; close it and cover the joints with butter, so that no water may penetrate the mould, and keep it in the ice for two hours. Make a sauce of half a bottle of saumur and one gill of syrup and put it into ice ; when partl}^ frozen mix in one white of egg with boiling .sugar poured into it and beaten up. Turn the rice out of the mould on to a fancy paper and serve with the above sauce. Iced Souffle. Souffle Glace. Put half a pint of cold water into a stewpan with the yolks of ten eggs ; place the pan in a basin of hot water ; whisk them till they become light and hot, then whisk them over ice till cold. Mix in a pint of whipped cream, a quarter of a pint of syrup, and a quarter of a pint of any liqueur that may be preferred. Soak some pieces of sponge cake in wine and place them at the bottom of the souffle dish and pour the mixture into it; surround with a band of paper two inches higher than the dish. Then set the souffle on ice for some hours, and when about to send to table strew some ratafia crumbs over the top and remove the band of paper. Iced Strawberry Compote. Compote de Praises Glacec. Arrange some large picked strawberries in a compote glass ; put a pint of marsala and one gill28 SJVEETS A LA MODE. of syrup in a pot in ice. When the wine is frozen to icicles pour it over the strawberries and serve. Jubilee Pudding. Ponding a la Jubile. Take six nice-shaped apples all about the same size ; remove the cores and put a piece of cinna- mon in each. Place the apples in a flat-bottomed basin ; pour a teaspoonful of brandy over each. Cover the top of the basin with a sheet of paper and set it in a pan of boiling water to steam. When soft remove the cinnamon and put a tea- spoonful of strawberry jam in its place. Then dish them up in a pyramid and pour over them all half a pint of whipped cream flavoured with a few drops of vanilla and sweetened with sugar. Sprinkle ratafia cake crumbs over all. Lemon Solid. Take three lemons ; grate the peel of one and a half; put it with the juice into a glass dish. Boil ten ounces of sugar in a quart of cream with a few peach leaves or any other flavour. When it has stopped boiling a few minutes pour it into the lemon juice, but do not stir it too much. Apples can be cooked thus, instead of lemon using apples and flavouring with lemon juice : it is then called apple solid. Lemon Tubes. Beat two eggs till they are white ; add to them their weight in sifted sugar, the same in flour, the juice of a lemon, and half the peel grated ; stir it all well. Butter a large sheet of tin ; spread on it very thin cakes the size of a small saucer. Bake themSWEETS A LA MODE. 29 a pale colour, and while still warm roll them on any wooden roller from which they will easily slip off. Little Nougats aux Violettes. Petits Nougats aux Violettes. Make the nougat by scalding one pound of Jordan almonds, removing the skins, and washing them well. Split them into halves and then into short shavings. Now place them on a baking sheet and put them in a slow oven till they get a pale gold colour, shaking them about all the time. Whilst the almonds are baking put half a pound of castor sugar into a stewpan (a copper sugar boiler is best) and stir it over the fire to melt ; as soon as it is dissolved put in six drops of lemon juice, and when it begins to form little bubbles throw in the hot almonds and mix very gently with the sugar. Then lift the pan off the fire, but keep the nougat hot. Have ready some little dariole moulds, well oiled with oil of sweet almonds ; put a little of the nougat paste on an oiled marble slab and spread it out well with a broad-bladed knife, and then it must be immediately placed in the mould, but very thinly ; trim the edges and let it cool. When cold turn them out and fill up with whipped and sweetened cream ; lay some crystallised sugar violets on the top, and stretch across from side to side a strip of citron for the handle ; colour and sweeten a little piece of gelatine, and when nearly cold tie them in a bow and fasten on the top of the handle. Love’s Cartridges. Take a dozen ice moulds in the shape of cartridges measuring two and a half inches long by one inch wide. Whip a pint of double creamSWEETS A LA MODE. 30 firm ; flavour this with two tablespoonfuls of vanilla sugar and fill the cartridge moulds; put on the lids and place them in ice for an hour. Remove these one at a time from the ice; dip one end in cold water and take off the lid ;. run a round wooden stick half an inch in diameter down the centre of the iced cream and fill up the hollow with grated chocolate ; put the lid on again. When they have all been done set them in some more ice. When ready to serve turn the cartridges from their moulds with cold water, and dish them up in a conical form upon a lace paper. Lucullus Pudding. Make a good custard ; add a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla and add sugar to taste ; add half a pint of cream, a gill of noyau or maraschino, the juice of a lemon, and a little dissolved isinglas.s. j\it this mixture into a pudding mould, lay it on ice, and turn out in the usual way. Macedoine of Fruits. Macedoine aux Fruits. Take some strawberries, half a pound of raspberries, the same of red and white currants, the same of cherries, the same of grapes, some apricots cut in quarters, pieces of pineapple and melon, or any fruit that is in season. h'ree all from their stalks, then put them into a rich syrup (sec under Syrup) ; flavour with either maraschino or noyau ; colour the syrup with a little carmine, and serve on a glass dish arranged prettily to blend the colours. Whipped cream may be served with it or not.SWEETS A LA MODE. 31 Madeleines. These are made of the same kind of batter as Genoese cakes, and when the batter is ready poured into a sufficient number of plain dariole moulds and baked in a moderate oven. When done turn them out and roll them in diluted preserve, and then in crystallised sugar. Place a crystallised cherry on the top of each and four pieces of angelica to represent leaves. They can be varied in colour by rolling them in different-coloured jams. Maraschino Jelly with Peaches. Cut six peaches in halves, blanch them in boil- ing water for five minutes, peel and put them into some syrup in a basin ; clarify one ounce of gelatine and add a quarter of a pint of maraschino to the jelly. Drain the peaches and cut each in two. Put a mould on pounded ice, pour a little jelly in, and when this is set fill the mould with alternate layers of peach and jelly. Let the jelly remain in the ice for two hours ; turn it out and serve. Marmalade Pudding. Take four ounces of bread crumb.s, four ounces of suet finely cut, four ounces of castor sugar, two good tablespoonfuls of marmalade, and one egg ; mix ivell and boil in a mould for four hours. Serve with egg-flip or cream sauce.SWEETS A LA MODE. 32 Melon a la Creme Glacd Oil a shaped ice mould ; have some pistachio kernels blanched and chopped fine. Sprinkle the halves of the oiled mould well with these. Then line each half of the mould with about an inch and a half of thickly frozen pistachio cream, made by pounding four ounces of pistachio kernels into half a pint of double cream with four ounces of sugar. Add a little green colouring and pass through hair sieve, and then half freeze it in one of the patent churn freezing machines before lining the mould with it. Make another cream in the same way, only using the juice and pulp of Tangerine oranges instead of the pistachio. Half freeze and fill up the centre of the mould on each side, close it tightly, put buttered paper over the joins, and set it on ice to freeze for two hours. Turn out in the usual way. This is often used instead of an ice pudding. Mincemeat. Six pounds of suet, eight pounds of raisins, four pounds of currants, one dozen apples peeled and chopped very fine, five pounds of moist sugar, one pound of candied peel, one dozen lemons cut up and boiled till quite tender. Throw away the pulp, cut up the rind, and mix it with the mincemeat ; mix the lemon juice and a pint of brandy with all the ingredients, and add a little mixed spice and two nutmegs. Mocha Pudding. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, and add gradually twoSWEETS A I. A MODE. ounces of potato flour and two ounces of fine flour ; lastly add four eggs, the whites whipped to a stiff froth. When the whole is well mixed put into a plain mould, buttered, and bake. Turn out the cake when done, and when quite cold cover all over with icing pushed through a proper cone. When it is iced it should be put in a cold place or on ice till time of serving. The icing is made by taking half a pound of fresh butter and a quarter of a pound of icing sugar, and beating it to a cream in a bowl, adding drop by drop during the process half a teaspoonful of the strongest coffee that can be made. Napoleon Cake. Take half a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, two ounces of sweet almonds pounded fine, with two ounces of loaf sugar ; mix for very short paste with the yolk of an egg. Set in the cold for an hour, roll out thinly, bake it, spread each slice with jam, then place one on the other sandwich fashion. Neapolitan Cake. Blanch, peel, wash, and dry half a pound of Jordan almonds ; pound them in a mortar, moisten- ing them with white of egg to prevent their turning oily. Then add half a pound of castor sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, three-quarters of a pound of flour, one small pinch of salt, and the grated peel of half an orange. Mix the whole to a stiff paste with six yolks of eggs and let it rest for an hour. Roll out the paste to three-sixteenths of an inch thickne.ss, cut it with a plain 5^-inch cutter, D34 SWEETS A LA MODE. and put these rounds into the oven till they become a light golden tinge. When these rounds are cold lay them one on top of the other, spreading them over alternately with apricot jam and currant jelly; spread the outside when piled up with apricot jam. Roll out some puff paste one-eighth of an inch thick, cut it into fancy patterns, lay them on a baking sheet, dredge fine sugar over them, and bake them without colouring them. Decorate the top and round the cake with these and some pistachio kernels arranged in trefoils. Noyau Jelly with Apricots. Gelee cle Noyau aux Abricots. Prepare some gelatine as directed for Fruit Jelly with Champagne, adding two gills of noyau to the jelly instead of the champagne. Cut some apricots in halves, cook them in syrup, and drain them well. Break the stones of the apricots ; blanch and peel the kernels and separate them in two. Put a plain mould on the ice and fill it alternately with layers of jelly and apricot, strewing the kernels round the mould; put a cover on with some ice on it, and let it remain in ice for two hours ; then turn out and serve. Omelette k la Cdlestine. Break five eggs in a basin ; beat them up with half an ounce of sugar and a dust of salt. Butter a small pancake pan ; pour in a tablespoonful of the egg, letting it spread in the pan like a pancake ; fry it for a few minutes and fold one side to the centre ; put a little apricot preserve on the centre.SWEETS A LA MODE. 35 fold the two ends to the middle over the preserve, and roll the omelet round. Make three of these small omelets ; put them on a dish, sprinkle with castor sugar and glaze them with a hot salamander, and serve. Omelette Souffle a la Parnasse. Take four fresh eggs and break the yolks and whites into separate basins. Beat the yolks well; mix with them two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a small pinch of salt, three macaroons finely crumbled, a teaspoonful of finely m.inced candied peel, and a dessertspoonful of arrowroot. When these ingredients are thoroughly and smoothly mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould and half fill it. Then bake in a moderate oven. When the souffle is set and lightly browned it is done enough. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar over it, and serve as quickly as possible. Garnish it with preserve round the base. Orange Custard Fritters. Beignets d’Oranges a la Creme. Break two and a half eggs into a stewpan with half a pound of flour ; mix and pour in by degrees one pint of milk, and stir over the fire for twenty minutes, when the custard should have become smooth ; take it off the fire and add two ounces of pounded sugar, half an ounce of grated orange peel, three yolks of eggs, and a dust of salt. Mix these well together, and spread the custard to a one-inch thickness on a slightly buttered baking sheet; when cold cut it into pieces two inches by36 SWEETS A LA MODE. one inch and a quarter ; dip the pieces in egg, breadcrumb and fry them in very hot fat till slightly coloured, drain, sprinkle them with sugar, and pile them up on a fancy paper in a dish and serve. Orange Tart. Tourte d’Orange. Take two large oranges, weigh them, boil them in water for half an hour. Put the juice and pulp of the fruit in a basin with double their weight of sugar and a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, and beat all together. Line a very shallow dish with thin paste. Put in the mixture and cover the top with whites of eggs beaten to a froth with a little castor sugar. Then bake it and serve. Pancake Balls. Dissolve half an ounce of yeast in a little luke- warm water and mix it with half a pound of flour, adding as much milk as is necessary to make a stiff dough. Set this in a bowl by the side of the fire, cover it with a cloth, and leave it to rise. Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, rub five or six large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a lemon until all the yellow part is taken off, then crush them to powder and mix them with the butter. Add four well-beaten eggs and knead all thoroughly with the dough. Make the mixture into small balls, insert a little marmalade or jam into the centre of each, close the aperture, and put them in a warm place to rise for a few minutes longer. Fry them in boiling fat until they are lightly browned, drain well, and dish them on a paper with powdered sugar sifted over them.37 SWEETS A LA MODE. Pancakes a la Cr^me. Beignets a la Crbne. Rub the rind of half a small fresh lemon with three or four large lumps of sugar until the yellow part is all taken off, then crush the sugar to powder and mix with a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a small pinch of salt, and one ounce of dried flour. Make this into a smooth paste with a little cold milk and an ounce of clarified butter, then stir in very gradually half a pint of thick cream and the well-whisked yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small frying-pan, fry the pancakes very quickly, and serve as hot as possible. They should be very thin. Paradise Pudding. Take three eggs; add their weight in flour, butter, and sugar; beat the butter and sugar together to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, and beat five minutes between each egg ; afterwards mix in lightly the flour with two tablespoonfuls of brandy and half a pint of cream. Butter the inside of a mould, dredge it with pounded sugar, and ornament it with dried cherries and angelica cut in leaves ; pour in the pudding and tie a cloth over the top of the mould ; put it into a pan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not boil into the pudding. Boil for one hour and serve with custard sauce. Pineapple Fritters. Beignets aux Ananas, Make a thick and smooth batter with three- quarters of a pint of cream, the yolks and whites of38 SWEETS A LA MODE. three eggs beaten separately, a pinch of salt, and sufficient flour to make it a proper consistency. Take the peel from a pineapple, cut it into slices, and let them soak in two glasses of curacoa mixed with two ounces of powdered sugar for several hours. When well flavoured with the liqueur dip the pieces into the thick batter and fry them on each side in boiling fat. When done drain them on white blotting-paper before the fire to absorb the grease. Serve on a fancy paper and sift loaf sugar quickly over them. Pineapple Mould. Take two and a half ounces of flour, half a pint of cream, some sugar, an ounce of butter, and the yolks of four eggs, and heat the whole over the fire in a saucepan until it detaches itself from the sides. Take it from the fire, mix in the yolks of two more eggs, and beat up the whites and add to it. Take some pineapple and stew it with some sugar and add a cupful to the egg mixture. Bake in a mould for one hour and a half; boil the liquor of the peel of the pineapple ; add the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of sherry, one tea- ‘spoonful of potato flour, a little sugar ; whisk it over the fire and serve as sauce when the pudding is turned out of the mould. Pineapple Pudding. Take two ounces of butter, the same of flour, half a pint of milk, and four ounces of pineapple cut up into dice. Take slices of pineapple, the yolks and whites of three eggs, and a tablespoonfulSWEETS A LA MODE. 39 of castor sugar. Take flour and butter together in a stewpan, and mix well, and let it boil ; stir it well. Add the yolks of eggs one by one, and beat them well in ; then the juice, pineapple, and sugar ; stir it very lightly, so as not to break the pineapple ; lastly, beat the whites of eggs stiffly and stir well in. Put it into a mould and put paper on top, and steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Serve a sauce with it composed of half a pint of the liquor of the pine- apple, two ounces of sugar, and some lemon juice all boiled together till clear, ginger pudding with preserved ginger can be made in the same way. Pineapple Pudding k la Metropole. Pain d’Ananas a la Metropole. Boil some pineapple in a pint of syrup and pass it through a tammy (a pint of the pineapple and a pint of the syrup). Soak two ounces gelatine in water for a quarter of an hour, drain it, and put it into the hot syrup in which the pineapple has been boiled, and stir over the fire till the gelatine is melted ; strain it, let it cool, and add the puree. Decorate a plain round mould with almonds, ange- lica, and dried cherries, sticking them on the mould with a little melted and sweetened gelatine. Set the mould in ice and fill in with the pineapple puree ; put a baking sheet on the top with some ice on it, and let it remain on the ice for two hours, then turn out the ‘ pain ’ and serve. Cream may be handed with it. This pudding may be varied with apricot puree instead of the pineapple.40 SWEETS A LA MODE. Pineapple Toast. Take a small tin of preserved pineapple and a stale sponge cake ; cut the sponge cake in slices half an inch thick, and cut them and the slices of pineapple to the same shape. Fry lightly the slices of cake on both sides in butter. Arrange on a dish in a circle alternately a slice of cake and one of pineapple ; take as much syrup out of the tin as may be necessary ; add to it a glass of sherr}^ or a liqueur of brandy ; pour this over the dish and serve cold. Potato Cheese Cakes. Boil a quarter of a pound of mealy potatoes; mash them well; then add to them two table- spoonfuls of brandy, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter oiled, four eggs, and the rind of half an orange mixed. • Mix these ingredients well together, and bake in hollow pattypans with puff paste. Potato Souffle. Mix a large spoonful of potato flour and of pounded sugar with half a pint of new milk; put it into a pan and stir it over the fire till it boils. Remove the pan from the fire and flavour the mix- ture with orange-flower water or chocolate ; beat up the yolks of six eggs with a little sugar; add them to the mixture. Mix in lightly the beaten whites and bake for half an hour, and send up quickly to table.4* SWEETS A LA MODE. Raspberry Sponge. Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for a quarter of an hour ; then add a pint of boiling water. When cool add half a pound of sugar, the juice of three lemons, and the whites of two eggs. Whisk it for half an hour; pour it into shape. Russian Jelly. Gelee a la Russe. The remainder of any broken jelly will answer this purpose. Put the jelly in a basin ; place the basin in a pan of hot water. When the jelly is dis- solved pour some of it into a mould and allow it to get firm. Whip up the remainder of it into a froth and put all into a mould, and put away to get cold ; then turn out. Savarin with Punch. Savarin au Punch. Put a quarter of a pound of Vienna flour into a small basin ; mix one ounce of German yeast and a pinch of salt with a quarter of a pint of tepid milk and water, and work it into the quarter-pound of flour into a little round ball and cut across on the top ; then place it in a moderate temperature, to admit of its rising gradually. Place three- quarters of a pound of Vienna flour into a large pan ; hollow out the centre and place therein a tea- spoonful of salt moistened with a teaspoonful of water, ten ounces of fresh butter, six large whole eggs, and two ounces of sifted sugar. Mix all well together, beating up the paste till it easily leaves the sides of the pan. Then mix in a quarter of a42 SWEETS A LA MODE. pound of finely shredded almonds ; have the mould well buttered, and strew some of the almonds over and about the surface of the interior. Half fill the mould with this mixture. Place the savarin in a moderate temperature to rise till it has nearly filled the mould ; a broad band of paper should be fas- tened round the upper part of the mould, to prevent the batter running over while it is baking; put it in a moderate oven and bake for about two hours. When done turn the savarin out, make several in- cisions in several parts of the surface, and pour gently over it a syrup made of eight ounces of loaf sugar in one pint of water boiled down to half the quantity, then add a large wine glass of punch and use. Small Coffee Souffles in Cases. Take half a pound of coffee {^freshly roasted if possible); boil a quart of milk, put in the coffee, and let steep for an hour, strain and make a souffle paste with this milk thus: put the milk into a stewpan with five ounces of flour, three ounces of sugar, and a small pinch of salt. Mix these well and put on the fire till the mixture boils, stirring with a wooden spoon till smooth. Now break five eggs, put the whites aside, and add the five yolks ; whip the whites firm and mix in with the batter, stirring very lightly; then fill some paper cases with this souffle paste and bake them in the oven ; sprinkle fine sugar over them and serve. Souffle Espagnol. Boil four ounces of butter and three ounces of bread crumbs in a stewpan, stirring till the bread43 SWEETS A LA MODE. crumbs are slightly coloured ; stir in two ounces of sugar and a pint of boiling milk, and let the whole boil till the mixture becomes rather thick ; take the mixture off the fire and whilst it is getting cool whip up to a froth the whites of six eggs, on which put two or three drops of vinegar ; mix the yolks of the eggs with the mixture, and add the whip, turning it lightly over until well mixed ; butter and sugar a mould, fill it to within an inch of the top with the mixture, place the mould in a stewpan of hot water with a bottom to prevent its slipping, and put in an oven not too hot and bake for three- quarters of an hour ; turn out the mould and cover with half a pint of whip sauce flavoured with vanilla. Strawberry Fluff. Separate five eggs ; beat the whites to a stiff froth. Beat a cupful of nice ripe strawberries to a liquid ; add two-thirds of a cup of powdered sugar to the yolks, beat well, and add the juice of half a lemon and the strawberry liquid. Boil this till scalding and slightly thickened, then add quickly the well-beaten whites; stir briskly all together and remove quickly from the fire and fill custard glasses with it. Serve cold with sponge cake. Strawberry Fritters. Beignets aux Praises. Make a batter of two eggs well beaten, add a quarter of a pint of cream and a quarter of a pint of milk thickened with a little corn flour, sugar, and a trifle of cinnamon. Put the strawberries raw into this batter and fry them in a pan of hot lard, a spoonful at a time.SWEETS A LA MODE. 44 Dish them in a pyramid and sift sugar between and over them. Raspberries and mulberries are also delicious in this way ; also apricots, but they should be cut in two, the stone taken out, and soaked in brandy for an hour with a little sugar and lemon peel. Strawberry Fritters (another way). Mix a spoonful of salad oil with a little flour and the peel of half a lemon grated. Whisk the whites of three eggs, stir them in, and add sufficient white wine to make a very thick batter ; then mix in some fine ripe strawberries, and drop the mix- ture from a spoon about the size of a walnut into a pan of boiling butter, with a strawberry in each fritter. When done take them carefully out, drain them on a sieve, and serve with sifted sugar over them. Strawberry Jelly. Gelee aux Fraises. Boil a pint of syrup, and when it is a little cool pour it over a pound of picked strawberries and let them steep for an hour. Clarify one and a half ounce ot gelatine with one pint of water, two whites and shells of eggs, and the juice of a lemon, as directed in Fruit Jelly. Strain the strawberries through a jelly bag and add the syrup to the gelatine; pour this liquid into a mould and stand on ice for two hours, turn out, and serve. Strawberry Pudding (Cold). Pain de Fraises. Make two pints of strawberry puree and mix it with three-quarters of a pound of pounded sugar ;SWEKTS A LA MODE. 45 melt one and three-quarter ounce of gelatine in half a pint of water ; when cold strain it through a tammy into the puree, stirring all the time. Decorate a plain round mould with almonds, put it on the ice and fill it with the puree. Place a tin plate on the top, covered with ice, and let it remain in ice for two hours, then turn it out of the mould and serve with clotted or plain cream. Sutton Pudding. Take the yolk of eight eggs, a quart of milk, half an ounce of isinglass, half a stick of cinnamon or vanilla ; put them in a jug, which stand in a saucepan of boiling water, stirring it all the time, till it becomes a good consistency. Then pour it into a mould to get cold and turn it out. Tangerine Cream. Creme a la Tangerine. Boil eight Tangerine oranges in water for an hour. Cut them in halves, and pass the juice and pulp through a hair sieve ; add about half a pound of castor sugar; beat up the yolks of three eggs and add to the orange pulp with one tablespoonful of brandy. Boil one pint of cream, and pour it over the other ingredients; stir the mixture all the time ; add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, and stir till nearly cold ; then pour the mixture into a mould, and put away in a cool place to get firm. Tangerine Pudding. Pouding aux Oranges a la Tangadne. Put rather less than half a pint of milk in a basin with a teaspoonful of lemon juice; mix a46 SWEETS A LA MODE. quarter of a pound of warmed butter into a quarter of a pound of Vienna flour with three ounces of castor sugar. Put these ingredients into a stewpan, add the milk, and stir over the fire till it boils. Put it into a china pan to get cool, then mix in three yolks of eggs and stir hard for ten minutes. Then add the three whipped whites of the eggs and two large spoonfuls of Tangerine oranges cut up small. Butter and paper a plain, round mould (the paper must be buttered on both sides), and decorate it all with slices of Tangerine orange and angelica that are cut with a plain round cutter to the size of a shilling; pour the mixture into the mould and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a whipped cream sauce round it which has been flavoured with some juice from the Tangerine oranges and half a wineglass of brandy; sprinkle over with finely chopped pistachio kernels. Tomato Jelly. Cut one pound of tomatoes into four or six pieces, according to size ; take out the seeds and add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar and half an ounce of ginger cut small. Dissolve the sugar in a little water and let it simmer for five minutes, then add the fruit and boil clear; then add half an ounce of gelatine which has been dissolved ; give one boil up, put into little dariole moulds, and embed in ice for two hours, when turn out. Tutti Frutti. Take one ounce of shred pistachios, the same of dried cherries, the same of citron, the same ofSWEETS A LA MODE. 47 candied orange peel, the same of chocolate drops, and cut them all into very small dice. Take also two whites of eggs mixed with sugar to a paste, and half a pint of whipped cream. Make a custard with ten yolks of eggs and a pint and a half of milk and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. When the custard has been made and become cold, freeze it in one of Mrs. Marshall’s ice- making machines till it is firm ; then add the meringue paste and a gill of maraschino with a few drops of essence of cinnamon ; work these in in the freezer, and as the custard sets again add the fruit, and lastly the whipped cream. Mould in the usual way. Venus Pudding. Butter a quart mould well, and ornament with candied ginger. Make a custard of twelve yolks of eggs and the whites of six, a pint of cream, and sugar to taste. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in sufficient milk to fill up the mould. When cold add a glass of rum, put in the mould, and place on ice to set. Before adding the isinglass put aside a little ot the custard for sauce, to which add some einger syrup, and serve round the pudding. For a pint mould halve all these quantities. Walmer Pudding. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan with a pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a little sugar, the grated rind of a large lemon. Mix all these into the melted butter, stirring it briskly tillSlVJt/rJ'S A LA MODE, 48 it becomes a thick paste ; then add four well-beaten eggs, butter a dish or mould, and bake it. When cold spread preserve and chopped almonds over it. Walnut Cream Ice. Take a pound of peeled kernels of new walnuts and pound them in a mortar with sufficient milk to enable them to be beaten through a hair sieve. Mix with the puree until quite smooth half a pint of cream and twelve ounces of sugar, and then add a pint of v'hipped cream. Freeze in the usual way. Water Melon Mould. Make a sponge cake and bake it in a melon shape ; when cold cut a slice from the top an inch thick ; then cut out the heart of the cake, leaving the shell an inch and a half thick. Spread the inside with apricot jam, and fill up with cream sweetened, and slightly stiffened with a little gelatine; replace the slice which has been cut off, turn it on to a dish, and mask it over thinly with some of the cream, and sprinkle very thickly finely grated pistachio kernels. Whipped Sweet Sauce. Take a milk saucepan and put in the yolks of three eggs, one ounce of pounded sugar, half a glass of sherry, the juice of half a lemon, and a grain of salt ; whisk the sauce over the fire till it is a creamy froth, and pour over the pudding and round the dish.SWEETS A LA MODE. 49 Whipped Madeira Jelly. Put an ounce and a half of gelatine in a stew- pan with three-quarters of an ounce of lump sugar and one pint of water; melt it over the fire, strain it through a silk sieve, and add three gills of Madeira. Put a tinned or enamel basin in the ice and whip it with a wire whisk ; take it off the ice and whip it for ten minutes more. Should the jelly become too firm, dip the bowl in warm water for a few seconds. Continue whipping until the jelly is all a thick froth ; then pour it into a mould set in ice ; let it remain for three-quarters of an hour. Turn the jelly out and serve. White Currant Jelly with Raspberries. Pick a pound and a half of white currants ; boil a pint and a half of syrup ; put the currants in it, and let them remain on the fire for two minutes, tossing the syrup to cook the currants evenly ; pour the whole into a basin and when cold pass through a jelly-bag. Clarify two ounces of gelatine with half a pound of sugar and two whites of egg, &c., as before directed. Add to it the currant syrup ; pour the jelly in a mould set in ice, putting in a pound and a half of picked raspberries, and finish as before.SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. Anchovy Eclair. Eclair d’Anchois. Roll out some thin puff paste ; scrape, wash, and bone a dozen anchovies ; enclose each in the paste. Bake and then sprinkle a little grated Parmesan cheese over each, and serve very hot. Anchovy and Whipped Cream. Anchois a la Millionnaire. Make some toast, cut it into five neat square pieces, butter it, then spread lightly on it the follow- ing mixture : Stir in a gallipot (placed in a sauce- pan of hot water over the fire) the beaten yolk of an egg, one ounce of butter, two teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste (P'ourrier and Cunningham’s is best), a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, six olives finely chopped, and a gill of cream, until it becomes the thickness of a rich custard. It must not be allowed to boil. Whip a gill of cream to a froth, let it drain on a sieve, then pile it up on each piece to roast over the anchovy custard. P'illet and bone some anchovies (soaked in a little milk) ; cut the fillets in halves ; lay four strips against the piled up cream on each square of toast, the ends meeting at the top. Put on ice and serve cold.SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 5J Artichokes a la Barigoule. Take some artichokes and cut them so that nothing but the bottom and the tender begin- nings of the leaves remain. Then in the spaces between each leaf drop in salt, pepper, and a few drops of oil. Now place the artichokes in an earthenware dish and pour oil over them till they are covered to their middle height. Add two onions cut in quarters, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, a laurel leaf, salt and pepper ; cover the earthenware dish with a sheet of paper, and on this place a dishful of water, so that it shall be her- metically closed, and then let them cook. Avocada Pears with Anchovy Cream. Prepare two pears as for the former dish ; lay each half-pear on a sippet of very crisp toast. Take the yolks and whites of two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, two olives chopped fine, one tea- spoonful of capers. Fill the hollows in the pears with the mixture. Pound two boned and scraped anchovies to a paste, and thoroughly incorporate them with two tablespoonfuIs of thick cream. Pour a dessertspoonful of the mixture over each pear. Avocada Pears in Parmesan. Peel and halve two pears, make a hollow for the mixture, place them on sippets of toast buttered and thickly dusted with Parmesan cheese. Pound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with half an ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of anchovy paste and a pinch of cayenne pepper ; mix all very smooth and fill up the pears with the preparation.SUPPER 1)1 SPIES A LA MODE. 52 Avocada Pears a la Tartar. This vegetable is not often seen in England, but still whenever they are to be had a recipe will not be out of place among supper dishes. Peel and halve the pears and scoop out the centre ; fry some fine-grated breadcrumbs ; prepare a Tartar sauce by taking the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, three shallots, a few capers, a little parsley and tarragon. Pound the yolks of the eggs quite smooth. Chop the herbs very fine ; mix the yolks gradually with a large tablespoonful of olive oil till quite smooth ; add a teaspoonful of French mustard, one of Chili vinegar, half a one of tarragon vinegar, a little salt and white pepper. When the sauce is smooth stir in the herbs. Cover the pears thickly with this sauce ; let them stand a little for the sauce to stiffen. Make a small fried breadcrumbs, and arrange them round the pyramids of crumbs, the small end upwards in the dish. Beetroot and Onion Salad. Boil a Spanish onion, and when cold cut it into slices, and dish them alternately with slices of boiled or baked beetroot; pour over the salad a seasoning composed of two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, some chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Chickens a la Belle-Vue. Take two spring chickens, boil them, and when cold mask them all over with white bechamel sauce made with a third proportion of aspic jelly;SUPPER DISHES J LA MODE. 53 place them on their dish ; ornament tlieir breasts with designs stamped out with cutters from thin slices of truffle, red-tongue, or with spread leaves of tarragon and chervil ; the base should be garnished with some chopped aspic jelly and a border of aspic croutons round alternately red and white. They may also be decorated with red and white designs cut out in aspic instead of truffles, &c. Croutes of Caviare. Cut some pieces of bread half an inch thick and one inch wide ; hollow out from the centre a little piece and fry a nice golden brown, and then fill up with caviare ; flavour with a little lemon, butter, and a tiny dust of Nepaul pepper ; put them in the oven and serve very hot. Dressed Ham. Take a ham weighing about nine pounds, which should be soaked about ten hours in cold water. Then simmer the ham with a carrot and bay leaf in the water for three hours ; when done let it remain in the water to get cold, having first skinned it whilst hot. When cold glaze it with a pale glaze and make designs in red and gold- coloured savoury jelly, and ornament it, and dish with chopped aspic and croutons in the same all round the dish. One way of ornamenting a dressed ham is to make a one-inch border all round with different designs in Italian paste, and a star of the same in the middle, and whipped aspic, put on through a forcer in designs between the centre and sides.SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 54 Dressed Tongue. Boil a nice ox tongue for three hours, and when done take off the skin and shape it well by placing the root against some fixture and running a fork through the middle of the thin part into the board upon which it stands. When the tongue is cold trim and glaze it lightly over and ornament with savoury jelly in two colours, A pretty way is to place a strip of pale aspic, about an inch and a half wide, down the centre, and put little cross bars of red jelly over that, and on either side of the wide piece of jelly put little pink rosettes made of butter and aspic coloured with a little carmine. This can be put on with a forcer or squeezed through a butter cloth. Chopped aspic and croutons of the same all round the dish. Fowl Entombed a I’Aspic. Boil a fowl and mask with white bechamel sauce in which aspic has been mixed ; cut truffles out in tiny rings, crescents, and trefoils, and orna- ment the chicken highly. Take a square tin mould, pour in a layer of good clear aspic, and when it is cold place the chicken on it breast down- wards ; then fill it up gradually with the aspic and put on ice. Turn out and decorate the base with truffles, parsley, and red chopped aspic. Galantine of Turkey. Bone a turkey and lay it on a table with the inside uppermo.st; cut the meat from the thickSUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 55 parts and distribute it equally all over the inside with pepper and salt to taste. Make some farce with veal, ham, and truffles ; lay a layer of this over the meat of the bird, then a layer of sliced tongue, then another layer of turke}/, then a layer of sliced truffles, then forcemeat, then tongue, then truffles, then turkey, and lastly more force- meat ; roll it up and fasten it with string ; tie it up in a well-buttered cloth, put it into a stewpan with two carrots, two onions, a stick of celery, two sprigs of parsley, a dozen peppercorns, half an ounce of salt, and sufficient white stock to cover it. Let it simmer gently for three hours, strain, and let it get nearly cold; take off the cloth, wring out the water; put the galantine in the cloth again, tie it up, and place it in a dish with the fat from the stock on it, and on the top of it put a heavy weight to make it a good shape, and let it get cold. Let the stock get cold ; take off the grease and clarif}^ it; reduce it to half-glaze ; add sugar, lemon juice, and a spray or two of fresh tarragon ; strain and allow it to get cold. Then take the galantine out of the cloth and glaze it all over; cut the rest of the glaze into various strips and lozenge shapes, and garnish the dish with it. Lobster a la Tarragon Cream. Homard a la Creme a I’Eslragon. Take a lobster, cut it up in neat scallops, and pour over it a sauce made as follows : put into a stewpan an ounce of butter, two yolks of eggs, four tablespoonfuls of Devonshire cream, a tiny dust of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of lemon juice ; stir in a jug in a saucepan of boiling water overSUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 56 the fire till the sauce is thick, then add a salt- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, strain it, and then mix in a little sprinkling of chopped tarragon truffle and lobster coral. Garnish round the dish with chopped aspic sprinkled with finely chopped parsley and lobster coral. Lobster Croutes k la Tartare. Make the croutes as in Croutes a Caviare ; put a little mustard and cress in the bottom of each, and on the top of this put some pieces of lobster in the shape of a pyramid. Just before serving mask with a spoonful of sauce tartare and sprinkle a little lobster coral over. Lobster Timbale a la Vitellius. Timbale de Homard a la Vitellius. Pound the meat of a lobster with the coral, four sardines, four anchovies, and six large oysters, three hard-boiled eggs, all together in a mortar, and add a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a des- sertspoonful of olive oil. When this mixture is quite smooth rub it through a tammy and put on ice to set. When cold stamp it into the shape of lobster cutlets, inserting small pieces of the small claws at the end of each. Line a plain mould with savoury aspic jelly about a quarter of an inch thick, put some of the cutlets on the bottom of the mould, cover with a little aspic, then stand the cutlets in a wreath round the sides of the mould and set with jelly. Take one dozen oysters, some prawns, a teaspoonful of capers, two hard-boiled eggs, and some sliced anchovies ; cut up in pieces ; fill up the centre of the mould with this and pour57 SUPPER DISHES /! LA MODE. on some mayonnaise sauce in which some aspic has been mixed ; put on ice, and when ready turn out on a dish and garnish with whipped aspic, truffles, and beetroot. Mayonnaise of Fowl. Cut up a cold fowl into small joints ; steep them in a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and .salt; drain them on a cloth ; dish them in a pyramid on a thick bed of seasoned lettuces shred ; mask them all over smoothly with some white mayon- naise sauce ; garnish round the base with a border of hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, olives, fillets of anchovies, and chopped aspic ; ornament the top with a few sprigs of tarragon and chopped aspic. Mayonnaise of Lobster. This is prepared nearly the same as for mayon- naise of chicken, only cutting the lobster into neat collops. Take some sauce tartare and colour it with some pounded lobster spawn or coral mixed into it, or the sauce may be poured over the lobster and the coral sprinkled over afterwards. Garnish the same as mayonnaise of fowl. Pig’s Head k la Wild Boar. Procure a pig’s head with as much of the neck on as possible; they can be bought at any porkman’s ready cleaned. Place the head on a cloth upon its skull; open it very carefully without piercing the* skin, leaving no flesh whatever upon the bones ; bone the neck part and cut it into small fillets two inches long. Lay the head on a board and rub itSUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 58 with half a pound of brown sugar ; let it remain for one hour, then place it in a salting tub and throw over it four pounds of salt Put into a separate pan two quarts of ale, four bay leaves, half an ounce of peppercorns, a few cloves, a little mace, eight sliced onions, a shallot, six sprigs of thyme, two sliced carrots, and eight sprigs of winter savory ; stir well and let it remain for two hours ; then throw it over the head, which turn every day for ten days, rubbing it well. Then take it out, dry it, and lay the head straight before you, skin side upwards. Have ready about six or seven pounds of pork forcemeat, which cover the head with an inch thick at the thinnest part. Put the fillets cut from the neck in a layer length- wise in the head, with a long piece of fat bacon half an inch square ; between each sprinkle some chopped shallots, pepper, salt, truffles, and pista- chio nuts, and continue filling with forcemeat and the other ingredients till you have used the whole. Join the two cheeks together and sew up the head, giving it as much the shape of a head as possible ; fold it in one or two large thin cloths, leaving the cars out and upright; then put the head to braise as follows : Put half a pound of butter in the pan, over which put four pounds of trimmings of pork or veal, eight onions, two carrots, four turnips, six bay leaves, a tablespoonful of peppercorns, a dozen cloves, a little mace, ten sprigs of thyme and marjoram each, four calf’s feet, and half a bottle of vin de Grave and a claret glassful of sherry. Place it on a brisk fire, stirring it occasionally, till the bottom is covered with a clearish glaze, then add four gallons of water and half a pound of salt; when boiling draw it to the corner of the stove, skim,SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 59 and put in the head, ears uppermost; let it simmer seven or eight hours. When tender it is done. Skim the stock, in which leave the head till half cold; then take it out, partly undo the cloths, and tie it again tighter if possible, and press it into a cover or upon a baking sheet with three flat pieces of wood, one at each side, with a weight against them and one upon the top between the ears, on which put a fourteen-pound weight. Let it remain all night, then take it out of the cloths ; cut the thread it was sewn up with ; cut a piece an inch thick from behind the ears ; turn the head a little, setting the ears in a proper position ; glaze it with brown glaze ; form the eyes with a little lard and a few black currants round, and the tusks with paste, baking them. Have some fresh flowers, which stick grace- fully in the ears and some around, just leaving space to carve. Garnish with aspic croutons. Pheasant Pie. The china dishes are now so generally used, and are so much prettier than the pastry cases, that I shall here only give a recipe for filling the china dishes. Bone two pheasants, which lay flat upon a clean cloth breast downwards ; season the interiors with a little pepper and salt and chopped onions ; spread a layer of forcemeat over half an inch in thick- ness ; lay at the bottom of the dish a thick and rich forcemeat with plenty of truffles ; fill the interiors of the birds with oyster forcemeat ; roll the birds over together and lay on the forcemeat foundation, and cover again with forcemeat; put also in some savoury aspic jelly. When the mould is full place a pat of butter on the top and a bay leaf; whenSUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 6o baked pour in a gill of gravy made from the bones. Chop aspic jelly and lay all over the top, and cut aspic croutons and place round the dish the mould stands on. Raised Pie. Take ten ounces of veal, twelve fresh pork chops ; chop them very fine ; season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a dust of nutmeg. Arrange this as a lining round a china raised pie mould. Fill in with fillets of pigeon, chicken, and any game, strips of tongue, ham, hard yolks of eggs, button mushrooms, pistachio nuts, truffles, and pate de foie gras ; cover in with more of the mince ; then put a paste on the top for cooking it in. Bake from two and a half hours to three hours. Fill the mould up with clarified meat jelly partly cold ; let this set. Ornament the top with chopped aspic and alternate slices of lemon and cucumber round, and if put in a china mould croutons of two coloured aspics should be arranged round. Salmis Chau'dfroid of Partridges. Cut up a brace of partridges that have been roasted into small joints ; put their trimmings into a small stewpan with a bay leaf and thyme and a tablespoonful of clarified butter. Fry the whole till of a light brown colour; then add half a pint of brown sauce and a glass of sherry, which boil gently for ten minutes ; remove the sauce and strain into a stewpan. Add to this a third proportion of aspic jelly, and mix together and use the sauce to mask the joints of the partridges, which, after the sauce has become set firm upon them, are to be dished up in a pyramid form, garnished with aspic6i SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. jelly, a few truffles, and some prepared white cockscombs. This dish may be thus prepared with pheasants, woodcocks, quails, grouse, larks, &c. Salmon a la Marshal Marmont. Saumon a la Marechal Marmont. Line a plain round mould with aspic jelly about a quarter of an inch thick. Pound a quarter of a pound of salmon with a quarter of a small cucumber, also pounded, mixed with thick cream, one tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a little green colouring, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Pass all these through a hair sieve with half a pint of aspic jelly ; then let it get cold on ice. Then cut into little rounds with scallopped edges (cut with a cutter) and arrange these upon the mould about three inches apart ; between these rows put little sprays of barberry garnish ; also place a wreath of the latter round the top of the mould ; set these with aspic jelly ; fill up the centre with a mixture of cooked lobster and anchovies, and mince these fine ; add a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, six small olives, and two tomatoes from which the skin and pips have been removed. All these should be cut into little square shapes. Add in with this two tablespoonfuls of sauce tartare mixed with a tablespoonful of aspic jelly. Stir well and continually. Put the mould on ice ; turn out in the usual way. Garnish the base with a border of whipped aspic and decorate with thin rounds of scalloped cucumber and crayfish. Powder the chopped aspic here and there with lobster coral.62 SUPPER DISPIES A LA MODE, Arrange the top of the mould with crayfish and lozenges of aspic. Salmon Cutlets a la Prince George. Cotelettes de Saumon a la Prince George. Make some salmon cutlets the same way as given for lobster cutlet (see ‘ Entrees a la Mode'); press into little moulds in the shape of shells. Cut some cucumbers into pieces two inches long, notching the peel to give it a striped appearance. Stand them on a dish and place a shell of salmon on each ; arrange so that each cutlet touches the other. Place little balls of lobster at the base all round and garnish with chopped aspic ; in the centre make a lettuce and endive salad ; pour green mayonnaise sauce over and sprinkle it with lobster coral. Small Mutton Pies. Mince a quarter of a pound of suet very fine and dissolve it in a stewpan ; when it boils pour in half a pint of milk. Let it come to the boil again ; then pour it through a hair sieve into one pound of flour and a little salt, and work into a smooth dough. Divide into six parts and work each up into a round shape to the height of three inches. P"orm the pie inside by pressing in a baking roller a little smaller than the shape. Next cut up some lean mutton in small pieces ; put them into a saute pan with a small piece of butter, a little chopped parsley, and a few mushrooms ; add pepper and salt and a little gravy. Fill the pies with this pre- paration ; cut out thin covers with the shape in which the pies were formed, and stick them on63 SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. with beaten egg, brush them over with the same, and bake in a quick oven. During the process keep the dough hot, to prevent its getting hard whilst the pies are being formed. Pork pies are made in the same way ; only in seasoning use sage instead of parsley and mushrooms. Salad a la D’Albignac. Mix in a basin three raw yolks of eggs, a tea- spoonful of mustard flour, a saltspoonful of salt and pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of rich cream ; mix these thoroughly, then stir in with a fork the juice of two lemons, then stir again and pour over the salad and stir well and decorate to fancy. The Doctor’s Salad. Boil three eggs hard for a quarter of an hour ; throw them when done into cold water ; then take them out of their shells, cut them in halves length- wise and remove the yolks, and chop them as finely as possible, and put them into a basin ; pour over them a tablespoonful of salad oil and mix all together as smoothly as possible. Then add gradually, stirring all the while zvWl a fork, two more tablespoonfuls of oil. Put a good mustard-spoonful of made mustard into a tablespoon, fill up with vinegar, and mix well; then gradually work this into the oil and egg, and work it till it is smooth and creamy. Take the yellow hearts out of two cabbage lettuces, pick them leaf by leaf, wash and drain them ; fill the salad bowl three-quarters full ; pour the mixture over and incorporate thoroughly Cut the hardSUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 64 whites of egg into long narrow strips, and with them form a star in the middle of the salad. At the end of each ray of the star drop a blue borage flower, and a wreath of beetroot cut in small rounds as a garnish all round. Salade d’Estrees. Take some cold boiled roots of celeriac (turnip- rooted celery), some cold boiled potatoes and beet- root warmed. In the middle of the salad bowl make a heap of broad-leaved endive and blanched celery stalks in short lengths and frizzed, in equal quantities. Surround this with slices of the celeriac, potatoes, beetroot, and truffles, lapping over each other alternately, and pour over the whole a mayonnaise sauce. Italian Salad. Cut two cold potatoes and half a beetroot in slices half an inch thick, make them into neat round shapes with a cutter, and put them into the salad bowl with equal quantities of green peas, buds of cauliflower, heads of asparagus, cut French beans, boiled celery, Brussels sprouts, cooked haricot beans or lentils, according to what is in season ; mix with these a little shred ham, fowl, game, anchovies, pickles or olives, and season with sauce tartare. Dr. Kitchener’s Cooked Salad. ‘ Arrange in a tasty way in the salad bowl a pile of cold cauliflower, delicate cabbage (with the water well squeezed out), asparagus-tops, sea kale, green pease, kidney beans, artichoke bottoms, orSUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 65 whatever vegetables happen to be in season. W^ien nicely packed in a heap pour over the whole a liberal allowance of salad mixture, which may be made with aromatised pickle vinegar, a table- spoonful of capers, pickled na.sturtium buds, or chopped gherkins. As a final decoration shred very finely over the surface a few fresh leaves of cither cos or cabbage lettuce, to conceal what lies beneath.’ Potato Salad. Cut potatoes in small dice shapes to about a pint; put them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them and a pinch of salt; boil till just tender, strain off, and let them get cool. Take two tablespoon fills of mayonnai.se sauce, one of cream, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil ; then add the potatoes and serve. Garnish with tomatoes peeled and cut into squares, season with a little salad oil and tarragon vinegar, and make a garnish round the .salad alternately with quarters of hard-boiled eggs. Salmagundi Salad. Boil some eggs hard, chop up separately the yolks and the whites into coarse powder ; grate a quantity of hung beef; cut filleted anchovies or kippered herrings into strips. In the middle of the dish make a heap of that white endive called Capuchin’s beard and of per- fectly white lettuce hearts. Surround the base of this heap with a circle of watercress. Next to this strew a circle of powdered egg-yolk, then ofSUPPER DISHES A LA MODE, 66 the whites, then of the beef. Make an outer circle of lettuce and mustard cress cut very small. Decorate the central heap with strips of the an- chovies or herrings and garnish the outer rim with a few patches of pickled red cabbage and chopped parsley and chives placed alternately. Send up a salad mixture in a sauce boat. Winter Salad a la Dumas. Fill the salad bowl with rounds of beetroot, slices of celery, rampion roots, with plume of blanched leaves and boiled potatoes. Before put- ting on these vegetables take three hard yolks of eggs; crush them in oil till they form a paste. To this paste add chervil, criushed tunny (bought in bottles), two or three pounded anchovies, some h'rench mustard, a tablespoonful of soy, two or three gherkins cut in slices, and the whites of the hard eggs chopped fine. Moisten the whole with the best vinegar, put in the vegetables, and stir vigorously the whole, and then let fall over the whole a pinch of powdered Hungarian capsicums, and if that is not procurable a tiny dust of cayenne. Veal and Ham Pie. Fill a pie dish with alternate layers of veal and ham, sea.soned with pepper, but no salt, the ham being sufficiently salt; pour in just .sufficient stock to prevent its burning. While the pic is baking make a boiled custard, seasoned with pepper and a little salt; and when the pie is cooked pour the custard through a hole in the top of the pie crust. This should be served cold,SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. Badminton. Plack in a covered jug on ice a bottle of beaune, the rind of one orange, the juice of one, an ounce of bruised sugar-candy, a few sliees of cucumber, a glass of CLiracoa, and a little balm and borage (a sprig of verbena, if in season, or lemon-scented geranium leaf). Keep in ice for an hour, then pour in two bottles of seltzer water iced. Brandy or Gin Cocktail. Mix a quarter-pint of brandy or gin, half a gill of curacoa, a tablespoonful of bitters, half a gill of ginger syrup, one pint of ice. Moisten the rim of the tumbler with the juice of a lemon. Whiskey can be made the same, but omitting the curacoa. Brandy Punch (American;. Mix a tablespoonful of raspberry syrup in a gill of water, and a tablespoonful of castor sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and an orange strained ;68 SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. add a slice of pineapple and a ^ill of brandy ; fill the tumbler with shaven ice. Brandy Smash. Put three slices of lemon in a tumbler with a few slices of pineapple and a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar ; fill up with shaven VVenham Lake ice, add a wineglass of brandy, and suck through straws. Brandy Smash (American). Take two sprigs of mint, a wineglass of brandy, sugar to taste ; fill up with pounded ice, lay two slices of orange on the top, and suck through straws. Cardinal. Cut three Tangerine oranges in slices; add three drops of essence of cinnamon, three drops of essence of nutmeg, one drop of mace, three bruised carda- mom seeds, and four ounces of dissolved barley sugar in one pint of hot water ; cover and let the mixture simmer for half an hour ; strain and clear; add one quart of Rhenish wine, which warm up. Chablis Cup. Peel one lemon very thinly; take twelve lumps of sugar, two glasses of sherry, a quart of chablis, and a sprig of borage. Stir all these well together and pour into the jug, which should be placed on ice. Before serving stir the mixture and pour in two bottles of iced soda water.69 SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. Champagne Cup and Saumur Cup. Put in a jug an ounce of white bruised sugar- candy, a little borage and balm, an orange sliced, two slices of lemon, half a glass of sherry, and a bottle of champagne or saumur. Embed in ice for an hour. Also have embedded in ice two bottles of soda water. After decanting the champagne mix- ture from one jug to another pour in the soda water. Ching-Ching. Mix in a .soda-water tumbler a gill of old rum, one sliced orange, one drop of essence of pepper- mint, two drops of essence of cloves on sugar ; fill up with pounded ice. Cyder Cup. Put in a jug an ounce of castor sugar, a little balm and borage, a quart of sparkling cyder, a liqueur glass of brandy, half a gla.ss of sherry ; let these stand in ice for an hour ; then decant into another jug and pour in a bottle of soda water which has already been on ice. Cyder Cup. Two bottles of sparkling cyder, a wine glass of curacoa, half a gill of brown brandy, two ounces of .sugar-candy, the strained juice of a lemon, a slice of cucumber. Pour half a pint of boiling water on the candy ; when dissolved and cool add the brandy, cucumber, liqueur, and juice ; then add the cyder and a quart of shaven ice.70 SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. Claret Cup. Place in a jug well immersed in ice an ounce of bruised sugar-candy, a bottle of claret, a slice of lemon, some balm and borage, a glass of noyau, and two or three slices of cucumber. Place also in ice one bottle of sparkling lemonade and one of soda water. After the ingredients have been icing for an hour decant into another glass jug and pour in the bottles of lemonade and soda water. A few rose leaves, a sprig of verbena, or a straw- berry may be floated on the top. Any of these impart a nice flavour. Egg Flip. Ihit into a clean saucepan a quart of ale ; beat up in a basin the yolks of six new-laid eggs, into which put a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a wineglass of gin or whiskey, and grate in half a nutmeg. Beat up thoroughly together; as they all simmer skim the froth off into a basin containing the mixture. When the ale nearly boils pour it into the mix- ture, stirring the whole. Egg Nog. Put two yolks of eggs into a goblet with a little grated nutmeg, a good spoonful of brown sugar, and a teaspoonfiil of grated ginger ; make hot a pint of ale with a bit of cinnamon and a glass of rum ; pour gradually to the )'olks of eggs, &c., whisk- ing with a wire whisk. Serve hot and frothing.71 SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. Floster. A gill of pale sherry, half a gill of noyau, six peach leaves, three slices of lemon, half an ounce of sugar, a bottle of iced soda-water, and a piece of ice. Gin Punch. Half a pint of gin, a gill of maraschino, the juice of two lemons, the rind of half, three ounces of syrup, and two bottles of seltzer water. Ice well. Gin Sling. Put two slices of lemon and three lumps of loaf sugar into a tumbler ; fill up to the brim with shaves of Wenham Lake ice ; add a wineglassful of gin, stir, and suck through a straw. Hot Spiced Ale. Boil a quart of good ale ; add half a nutmeg ; beat up two eggs, mix them with a little cold ale ; when ready add the warm ale ; keep stirring to a froth ; add a piece of butter and serve with dry toast. Iced Cream Soda-Water. Equal quantity of fruit syrup and cream, double the same of shaven ice, and add a bottle of .soda water.72 SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. Institution Cup. A pint of champagne, a gill of pineapple s)Tup, a gill of strawberry syrup, an orange cut in slices, a glass of brandy, and a tumbler of shaven ice ; shake, and strain into tumblers. Knickerbocker. Mix half a pint of lemon-water ice with half a pint of madeira and a pint of iced seltzer-water. Locomotive. Put two yolks of eggs into a goblet with an ounce of honey, a little essence of cloves, a liqueur- glass of curacoa ; add a pint of burgundy made hot, whisk well together, and serve hot in glasses. Moselle Cup. Vut in the bottom of a jug one ounce of brui.sed sugar-candy, a bunch of balm and borage, one lemion sliced, half a glass of brandy, and a bottle of sparkling moselle ; let the jug stand in ice for an hour ; also place two bottles of seltzer water on ice, and just before serving decant the mixture in the jug into another jug, and pour in the seltzer water. Mulled Claret. Pour into a clean stewpan a pint and a half of water, the juice of a Tangerine orange, and a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon ; strain, sweeten with half a pound of sugar, add a pint of claret made hot.73 SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. Milk Punch. Take a large jug, the juice of six lemons, the rind of two, one pound of sugar, a cheap pineapple peeled, sliced, and pounded ; six clox'es, twent\’ coriander seeds, a small stick of cinnamon, a pint of brandy, the same of rum, a breakfast cupful of strong green tea, and a c{uart of boiling water : cork this dowm for six hours ; then add a quart of hot milk and the juice of two lemons. Mix, and filter through a clean felt jelly-bag, and when the punch has passed bright it can be put away in clean, tight-corked bottles. Roman Punch. Dissolve a pound of loaf sugar in three-quarters of a pint of water ; add half a pint of lemon juice with the rind of one lemon rubbed on sugar. Strain the mixture and freeze well ; add to it the whites of eight eggs previously beaten to snow, half a pound of castor sugar, half a teacupful of strong green tea, one wineglassful of maraschino, two of rum, and three of brandy. Mix all well together, and just before it is served add a bottle of champagne. Russian Punch. Dissolve in three pints of weak green tea three- quarters of a pound of sugar; add the strained juice of six lemons and a gill of Ktimmel. Sauterne Cup. Take one bottle of sauterne, one pint of Vdchy water, two oranges sliced, a bunch of balm and74 SUPPER CUPS A LA MODE. borage, and one ounce of bruised sugar-candy ; place these ingredients in a covered jug embedded in ice for an hour and a quarter, then put in a silver flagon or glass jug. Sherry Cobler. Three slices of orange, a spoonful of castor sugar; fill up the tumbler with shaven ice, add two glasses of sherry, and suck through a straw. Sifter. Take half a gill of whiskey, bruise twenty straw- berries into a tablespoonful of honey, add the juice of half a lemon, strain it all, then add a tumbler of shaven ice. Mix well. Sleeper. Take a gill of old rum, an ounce of sugar, two )"olks of eggs, and the juice of half a lemon, l^oil lialf a ]jint of water with six cloves, six coriander seeds, and a bit of cinnamon ; whisk all together and strain into a tumbler. Spider. A gill of gin, a bottle of lemonade, a lump of Wenham Lake ice, a liqueur glass of maraschino. St. Charles. Half a pint of cherry water, ice mixed with a small glass of cherr)' brand)*, and a bottle of iced soda-water.SUPPER CLUE A LA MODE. 75 Stone Fence. A gill of whiskey and half a pint of cyder, into which put half a pint.of shaven ice. Tickle my Fancy. l^oil together one gill of lemon juice, one pint of calf’s-foot jelly, one pound of stoned raisins, half a pound of sugar, and one pint of water ; when cool add one gallon of cyder ; strain with pressure ; add to this liquid a liqueur made by macerating in a quart of brandy and a pint of sherry cloves, cinna- mon, ground ginger, lemon-peel, equal weights; strain, and filter clear. Wassail Bowl. To one quart of hot ale add grated nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon, of each a quarter of an ounce, half a bottle of sherr}-, two good slices of toasted bread, the juice and rind of one lemon, and two well-roasted apples ; sweeten to taste. Batter. To four ounces of flour add as much milk as will make a thick batter. Stir into it half a wine- glassful of brand}^ and an egg, white and yolk beaten to a froth. Let it rest in a warm place for an hour, when it will be fit for use.76 TCING. Frying Batter. J^eat up one tablespoonful of brandy, one of olive oil, and a little cold water with the yolk of one egg ; add a pinch of salt ; then work in sufficient flour to make, with the addition of more water, as much batter as will be wanted. It should be of the consistency of thick cream. Just before using whisk into the batter the whites of two eggs, and mix them lightly but effectually. Icing. Take twelve ounces of icing sugar, whisk the whites of four eggs to a strong froth, and stir in the sugar by degrees, beating the whole time to make it smooth ; mix in the strained juice of half a lemon, and lay on the preparation while the cakes or pastry are warm, smoothing it equally all over with a flat spoon or a broad knife. Let it harden in a cool oven ; it must not be hot or it would colour the icing. Carmine or cochineal is added when pink is required ; for coffee icing a little Branson’s essence of coffee is added, and a little liquid chocolate when chocolate icing is required. Syrup. Put a pint of water in a preserving pan over the fire ; when it boils drop gradually into it half a pound of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved let it boil up. Remove the .scum as it rises. When it is clear it will be ready. Let it get cold, and then it will be fit for use. Different liqueurs or essences are poured into the .syrup when different flavours are required.I N D E X. Amsterdam pudding, i Anchovy and whipped cream, 50 — eclairs, 50 Apple cream, i Apricol Charlulte Russe, 2 Artichokes a la liarigoule, 51 *\.vocada pears a la Tarlare, 52 — — in parmesan, 51 with anchovy cream, 51 Rauminton, 67 Banana fritters and pistachios, 2 with rum, 2 with whipped cream, 3 Barberry cream, 3 — jelly, 3 Balter, 75, 76 Bavarois of rice and peaches, 4 Beetroot and onion salad, 52 Biscuits glac&, 4 Brandy cocktail, 67 — punch, 67 — sauce, 14 - smash, 68 Bread meringue, 5 Brown bread souffle, 5 Cabinet pudding, 6 Caramel custards, 6 Caramel pudding, 7, 8 Cardinal, 68 Castle baskets, 8 Chablis cup, 68 Champagne cup, 69 jelly, 9 Chantilly basket, 9 Chartreuse of apricots, 9 — of strawberries, 10 Cherry brandy jelly, 11 — jelly, I I Chickens a la BelleA'ue, 52 Chingching, 69 Chocolate eclairs, 12 — pudding, 13 — souffle, 13 Christmas pudding, 14 Claret cup, 70 — jelly, 14 Cocoanut pudding, 15 Coffee cannelons, 15 — Charlotte Russe, 16 — cream, 16 Compote of chestnuts, 17 Conservative pudding, 17 Cranberry jelly, 18 Cream, apple, i — coffee, 16 — ice, walnut, 48 — Tangerine, 45 Croules of caviare, 5378 INDEX. Cup, chahlis, 6S — claret, 70 — cyder, 69 — institution, 72 — moselle, 72 — saumur, 69 — - sauterne, 73 Custards, caramel, 6 Danish jelly, iS Diplomatic pudding, iS Dressed ham, 53 - tongue, 54 Egg flip, 70 — nog, 70 Flanc of peaches, 19 Floster, 71 Fowl entombed in aspic, 54 Fritters, lianana, 2 —■ orange custard, 35 — pineapple, 37 — - strawberry, 44 Frontignac jelly, 20 Fruit jelly with chamjiagne, 20 — syrup sauce, 21 Galantine of turkey, 54 Gateau a la Parisienne, 22 — aux pistaches, 21 — of rhubarb, 22 German sandwiches, 22 Gin punch, 71 — sling, 71 Ginger souffle, 23 Golden balls, 23 Gooseberry fool, iced, 25 Green fig compote, 24 Ham, dressed, 53 Hot spiced ale, 71 Ice pudding, 26 Iced coffee, 24 — cream soda-water, 71 souffle, 24 — custard pudding, 25 — gooseberry fool, 25 — rice a I’iniperatrice, 26 mould, 25 — souffle, 27 — strawberry compote, 27 Icing, 76 Institution cup, 72 Jelly, barberry, 3 — champagne, 9 — cherry, 11 l)randy, 11 claret, 14 — cranberry, iS - Danish, 18 J^'rontignac, 20 — maraschino, 31 — noyau, 34 — Russian, 41 — strawl)erry, 44 — tomato, 46 — whipped Madeira, 49 — white currant, 49 Jubilee pudding, 28 Knickerbocker, 72 Lemon solid, 28 — tubes, 28 Little nougats aux violettes, 29 Lobster a la tarragon cream, 55 -- croutes a la Tartare, 56 — mayonnaise, 57 — timbale a la Vitellius, 50 Locomotive, 72 Love’s cartridges, 29 Lucullus pudding, 3079 INDEX. Macedoine of friuis, 30 Madeleines, 31 Maraschino jelly with peaches, 31 Marmalade pudding, 31 Mayonnaise of fowl, 57 — of lobster, 57 Melon a la creme glace, 32 Milk punch, 73 Mincemeat, 32 Mocha pudding, 32 Moselle cup, 72 Mulled claret, 72 Napoleon cake, 33 Neapolitan cake, 33 Noyau jelly with apricots, 34 Omelette a la Celestine, 34 -- souffle a la Parnasse, 35 Orange custard fritters, 35 — PTi't, 36 Pancakes a la creme, 37 Paradise pudding, 37 Pheasant pie, 59 Pig’s head a la wild boar, 57 Pineapple fritters, 37 — mould, 38 — pudding, 38 a la metropole, 39 — toast, 40 Potato cheese cakes, 40 — souffle, 40 Pudding, Amsterdam, i cabinet, 6 — caramel, 7, 8 — chocolate, 13 — Christmas, 14 - cocoanut, 15 — conservative, 17 — diplomatic, 18 — ice, 26 Pudding, iced custard, 25 - jubilee, 28 — Lucullus, 30 — marmalade, 31 — mocha, 32 — Paradise, 37 — pineapple, 38 — plum, 14 — strawberry (cold), 44 — Sutton, 45 — Tangerine, 45 — Venus, 47 — Walmer, 47 Punch, milk, 73 — Roman, 73 — Russian, 73 Raised pie, 60 Raspberry sponge, 41 Russian jelly, 41 Salad a la D’Albignac, 63 beetroot and onion, 52 J^r. Kitchener’s, 64 — Italian, 64 — potato, 65 — salmagundi, 65 — the doctor’s, 63 — winter, 66 Salade d’Estrees, 64 Salmis chaudford of partridges, 60 Sauce, brandy, 14 Sauterne cup, 73 Savarin with punch, 41 Sherry cobler, 74 Sifter, 74 Sleeper, 74 Souffle espagnol, 42 Souffles, coffee, 42 Spider, 74 St. Charles, 74 Stone fence, 75 Strawberry fluff, 438o INDEX. Strawberry fnlteis, 43, 44 jelly, 44 - pudding, 44 Sutton pudding, 45 Syrup, 76 Tangerine pudding, 45 Tickle my fancy, 75 Tomato jelly, 46 Tongue, dressed, 54 V'eai. and ham pie, 66 Venus pudding, 47 Warmer pudding, 47 W'alnut cream ice, 48 Wassail bowl, 75 W'ater melon mould, 48 Whipped Madeira jelly, 49 — sweet sauce, 48 White currant jelly with rasj.- berries, 49 printed n\' SPOTTISWOODE and CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDONr ‘-S i