ABDOMEN 534 R.P papillary ducts which open on their surface. The cortical substance constitutes the peripheral part of the gland, and also sends prolongations inwards between the pyramids. These are called the cohunnce renales (coltmms of Bertin). Ureter.—This is the duct which carries the urine from the kidney to the bladder. The relations of its expanded upper end or pelvis at the hilus of the kidney have already been noted. Leaving the gland, it turns downwards and becomes contracted, so that when it reaches the level of the lower end of the organ it has acquired the appearance of a cylindrical tube. Each ureter extends downwards and medially, on the anterior surface of the psoas magnus muscle of the same side, to the lower end of the common iliac artery, or the upper end of the external iliac artery ; there it leaves the abdomen proper and enters the pelvis, where its relations will be studied at a later period. As it dips into the pelvis the right ureter passes behind the termination of the ileum, and the left behind the pelvic colon ; and as it lies on the front of the psoas magnus muscle each ureter crosses obliquely in front of the genito-femoral nerve of the same side. The anterior relations of the abdominal parts of the c. Cut edge of a calyx of two ureters differ slightly from each the ureter. Other. The right ureter commences behind the second part of the duodenum, and crosses behind the commencement of the third part; both parts, therefore, separate it from the peritoneum. Below the duodenum it descends behind the peritoneum, from which it is partially separated by the right internal spermatic or ovarian vessels, the ileo-colic vessels, and the terminal parts of the superior mesenteric artery and vein. The whole of the abdominal portion of the left ureter is in relation in front with the peritoneum, except that it is crossed anteriorly, behind the peritoneum, by the left internal spermatic or ovarian vessels, the left colic vessels, and the left sigmoid vessels. Dissection.—Having now disposed of all the viscera within the cavity Fig. 210.—Diagram of two Renal Papillae. R.P. Renal papilla.