244 INFERIOR EXTREMITY arises from one of the sural muscular branches, and supplies the integument over the proximal part of the calf of the leg. It lies in the groove between the two heads of the gastro- cnemius with the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf. The genicular arteries are five in number, viz. two superior, two inferior, and one median or azygos. Arterise Genu Superiores (Superior Articular Arteries). —The two superior genicular arteries spring from the main trunk as it passes between the condyles of the femur. One proceeds from each side of the popliteal, and they are called medial and lateral, according to the direction which they take. They will be found resting directly upon the popliteal surface of the femur, and will be observed to incline slightly proxi- mally, and then to wind round the bone immediately proximal to the condyles. The lateral artery is the larger of the two. The student is apt to mistake a muscular branch for one or other of these vessels; but their close apposition to the femur should in all cases be sufficient to distinguish them. The arteria genic sicperior lateralis runs laterally under cover of the biceps femoris, and disappears from the fossa poplitea by piercing the lateral intermuscular septum and entering the substance of the vastus intermedius. The arteria genic sicperior medialis proceeds medially under cover of the semimembranosus, and leaves the fossa poplitea by passing forwards under cover of the tendon of the adductor magnus to reach the deep surface of the vastus medialis. Arterise Genu Inferiores (Inferior Articular Arteries). —The two inferior genicular arteries arise from the popliteal as it lies on the distal part of the oblique popliteal ligament. The lateral inferior genicular artery takes a transverse course laterally, under cover of the plantaris and lateral head of the gastrocnemius, to gain a point on the lateral side of the knee, immediately proximal to the head of the fibula. It proceeds onwards under cover of the fibular collateral ligament of the knee-joint. The medial inferior genicular artery takes an oblique course distally and medially, under cover of the medial head of the gastrocnemius, and along the proximal border of the popliteus muscle, to gain the medial side of the tibia below the medial condyle. There it turns forwards under cover of the tibial collateral ligament of the knee. Arteria Genu Media (O.T. Azygos Articular Artery).—This springs from the popliteal as it lies upon the oblique popliteal