196 INFERIOR EXTREMITY medialis and proceeds distally, anterior to the tendon of the adductor magnus. It gives some twigs to the vastus medialis and others which spread out over the proximal and medial aspects of the knee-joint, and it anastomoses with branches of the medial genicular arteries. One well-marked branch runs laterally, proximal to the patella, to anastomose with the lateral superior genicular artery. Vena Femoralis (Femoral Vein).—This is the direct proximal continuation of the popliteal vein. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus, through which it enters the adductor canal, whilst proximally it passes behind the inguinal ligament and becomes continuous with the external iliac vein. It accompanies the femoral artery, but the relations of the two vessels to each other differ at different stages of their course. In the distal part of Hunter’s canal the vein lies on the lateral and posterior side of the artery, but it inclines medially as it ascends, and in the proximal part of the thigh it lies on its medial side and on the same plane. The cross- ing from one side to the other takes place posterior to the artery and is very gradual, so that for a considerable distance the femoral vein lies directly posterior to the femoral artery. For a distance of two inches distal to the inguinal ligament it is enclosed within the femoral sheath, of which it occupies the intermediate compartment. As it ascends in the thigh the femoral vein receives tributaries which, for the most part, correspond with the branches of the femoral artery. At the fossa ovalis it is joined by the great saphenous vein. The dissector should slit the femoral vein open with the scissors. Several valves will then be seen. One is almost invariably found immediately proximal to the entrance of the vein which corresponds to the profunda artery. Nervus Femoralis (O.T. Anterior Crural).—The femoral nerve is a large nerve which arises, within the abdomen, from the lumbar plexus. It enters the thigh by passing distally in the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles, posterior to the inguinal ligament and the fascia iliaca. In the proximal part of the thigh it lies to the lateral side of the femoral artery, and is separated from it by a small portion of the psoas muscle and the femoral sheath. A short distance below the inguinal ligament it divides into an anterior and a posterior portion, which at once resolve themselves into a