PELVIS 6o I Arteria Ilio-liimbalis (Ilio-lumbar Artery). — The ilio- lumbar artery springs from the posterior division of the hypo- gastric artery and passes upwards, laterally, and backwards, behind the obturator nerve, the external iliac vessels, and the psoas magnus muscle, into the iliac fossa, where it divides into lumbar and iliac branches. The lumbar branch runs upwards, and terminates in the substance of the quadratus lum- borum and psoas magnus muscles, where it anastomoses with the lower lumbar arteries. It gives olf a small spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The iliac branch breaks up into branches, some of which run laterally in the substance of the iliacus and others between the muscle and the bone. One of the latter set enters the nutrient foramen in the iliac fossa. The terminal branches reach the crest of the ilium, where they anastomose with the deep circumflex iliac and lumbar arteries. Arteria Glutaea Superior (O.T. Glutseal Artery).—The superior glutaeal artery is the largest branch of the hypogastric artery, and may be regarded as the continuation of the posterior division. Its course in the pelvis is short. It passes back- wards, between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and leaves the cavity through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen, above the piriformis muscle. Arteria Sacralis Lateralis (Lateral Sacral Artery).—The lateral sacral artery is occasionally a single vessel, but more commonly it is represented by two branches, which run medialwards in front of the sacral nerves to the lateral borders of the anterior sacral foramina. The upper of the two enters the first sacral foramen. The lower runs down- wards, lateral to the foramina and the sympathetic cord, and across the roots of the sacral nerves, to the tip of the coccyx where it anastomoses with the middle sacral artery. As it descends it sends spinal branches into the foramina. These assist the upper artery to supply the membranes and nerve-roots within the canal; then they emerge through the posterior sacral foramina and anastomose with branches of the superior glutseal artery. Arteria Hsemorrhoidalis Superior (Superior Hsemorrhoidal Artery).—The superior haemorrhoidal artery is the direct continuation of the inferior mesenteric artery. It enters the root of the pelvic meso-colon and descends in it as far as the