I lO THE UPPER EXTREMITY quadratus it pierces the interosseous membrane, and gains the dorsal aspect of the limb. It supplies 1-ami musculares to the three deep muscles with which it is in contact. In addition to these it gives off the following branches:— 1. Median. 2. Medullary. 3. Anterior communicating. The a. mediana is a long delicate vessel which accom- panies the median nerve. The medullary arteries are two in number—one for the radius, the other for the ulna. They enter the nutrient foramina of these bones. The anterior communicating is a slender artery, which runs distally, behind the pronator quadratus, to join the volar carpal arch. Nervus Interosseus Volaris (O.T. Anterior Interosseous ' Nerve).—This is a branch of the median, and accompanies the artery of the same name. It does not follow it, however, through the interosseous membrane, but is distributed entirely upon the volar aspect of the limb. It is the nerve of supply for the flexor pollicis longus, the lateral part of the flexor digitorum profundus, and the pronator quadratus, whilst its terminal filament proceeds distally, behind the last-named muscle, to help in the supply of the carpal joints. The flexor digitorum profundus is therefore supplied by two nerves, viz. the ulnar and the median. The precise range of supply by each of these nerves is somewhat variable. As a general rule the division of the muscle which belongs to the index finger is supplied by the median and the part belonging to the little finger by the ulnar; whilst the portions belonging to the middle and ring digits receive filaments from both nerves. Wrist and Palm. In this dissection we meet with the following structures:— 1. M. palmaris brevis and the volar cutaneous nerves. 2. Aponeurosis palmaris. 3. Arcus volaris superficialis and its branches. 4. Median and ulnar nerves and their branches. 5. Lig. carpi volare, lig. carpi transversum, the flexor tendons, and their vaginm mucosa;. 6. Mm. lumbricales. 7. Short muscles of the thumb and little finger. S. ,'Vrcus volaris profundus and its branches. g. Arteria princeps pollicis and art. volaris indicis radialis.