INFERIOR EXTREMITY i82 looks distally and laterally, whilst its abdominal surface is directed upwards and medially. Dissection.—The exposure of the femoral sheath is the next step in the dissection of the thigh. To attain this object the iliac portion of the fascia lata must be partially reflected. Divide the superior horn of the lateral crescentic margin of the fossa ovalis, and then carry the knife laterally along the lower border of the inguinal ligament, so as to sever the attachment of the fascia lata to this thickened band. This incision should extend to within an inch of the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The piece of fascia marked out by the incision above, and by the lateral free margin of the fossa ovalis medially, must be carefully raised from the subjacent femoral sheath and thrown distally and laterally. On the removal of a little loose fat, the femoral sheath will be brought into view as it enters the thigh under the inguinal ligament. Isolate it carefully from adjacent and surrounding parts, by carrying the handle of the knife gently round it—insinuating it first between the sheath and the inguinal ligament, then between the sheath and the lacunar ligament, which lies medial to it. Femoral Sheath.—The funnel-shaped appearance of the femoral sheath will now be apparent—the wide mouth of the membranous tube being directed upwards into the abdomen, and the narrow inferior part gradually closing upon the vessels, and fusing with their coats about the level of the distal limit of the fossa ovalis. Whilst it presents this appearance, however, it should be noticed that its sides do not slope equally towards each other. The lateral border of the sheath is nearly vertical in its direction, whilst the medial wall proceeds very obliquely distally and laterally. If the dissection has 'been successfully performed, the lumbo-inguinal tierve should be seen piercing the lateral wall of the sheath, whilst the great saphenous vein, and some lymph vessels, perforate its anterior and medial walls. Further, if the subject be spare and the fasciae well marked, the dissector will in all probability notice that the anterior wall of the sheath, in its proximal part, is strengthened by some transverse fibres which pursue an arched course across it. To these fibres the name of deep femoral arch is given, in contradistinction to the term superficial femoral arch, which is sometimes applied to the inguinal ligament. In favourable circumstances the deep femoral arch may be observed to spring from the deep surface of the inguinal ligament about its middle. After traversing the front of the sheath the band expands somewhat, and is attached by its medial extremity to the ilio-pectineal line or pecten of the pubic bone behind the lacunar ligament. Constitution of the Femoral Sheath.—The source from