MEDIAL SIDE OF THE THIGH 205 The adductor muscles are disposed in three strata. The anterior stratum is formed by the adductor longus and the pectineus, which lie in the same plane. Proximally they are placed side by side, but distally, as they approach their in- sertions, they are separated from each other by a narrow interval. The second stratum is formed by the adductor brevis ; and the third, or posterior layer, by the adductor magnus. The gracilis muscle, also an adductor, extends along the medial aspect of the thigh. It is a long, strap-like muscle, applied against the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. Inter- posed between these muscular layers, are the two divisions of the obturator nerve. The anterior division is placed between the anterior and middle layers, whilst the posterior division lies between the middle and posterior layers. In other words, the two divisions of the nerve are separated from each other by the adductor brevis, which intervenes between them. At the distal border of the adductor longus, a fine branch from the anterior division of the nerve makes its appearance to take part in the formation of the sartorial nerve plexus already dissected. The profunda artery and its branches are also to be followed. For a part of its course this vessel is placed between the anterior and middle muscular strata. M. Adductor Longus.—This muscle is placed on the medial side of the pectineus. It is somewhat triangular in shape, being narrow at its origin and expanded at its in- sertion. It arises by a short, but strong, tendon from the anterior surface of the body of the pubis, immediately distal to the pubic ridge (Fig. 74, p. 200), and it is inserted into the medial lip of the linea aspera of the femur by a thin, tendinous expansion. It is supplied by the anterior division of the obturator nerve. Dissection.—The adductor longus may now be reflected. Divide it close to the tendon of origin, and throw it laterally. In doing this be careful of the anterior division of the obturator nerve, which lies posterior to it, and gives to it its nerve of supply. On approaching the linea aspera of the femur its aponeurotic tendon will be found intimately connected with the vastus medialis anteriorly and with the adductor magnus posteriorly. Separate it from these as far as possible, in order that the profunda femoris vessels may be fully displayed as they proceed behind it. Art. Profunda Femoris.—This large vessel is the chief artery of sup[)ly to the muscles of the thigh. It arises in the femoral triangle from the lateral and posterior aspect of the femoral artery, about an inch and a half distal to the inguinal