438 ABDOMEN the large intestine. The chief points of difference are— (r) The wall of the small intestine is smooth and uniform, whereas the wall of the large intestine is puckered and sacculated. (2) The longitudinal muscle fibres in the wall of the small intestine are distributed uniformly round the tube, but in the large intestine they are collected into three longitudinal bands, tcenice coli, which are separated from each other by intervals and are distinctly visible to the naked eye. These bands are shorter than the tube itself, consequently the walls of the tube are puckered. (3) Attached to the great intestine are the appendices epiploicce. These are small peritoneal pouches, containing fat, which hang from the free border of the gut. The dissector should attempt to pull the small intestine forwards and he will find that it is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum called the mesentery, which runs obliquely downwards and to the right, from the level of the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. The parts of the large intestine lying to the right of the mass of coils of small intestine are the csecum below and the ascending colon above. The part crossing from side to side, above the small intestine, now that the great omentum is reversed, but which is normally in front of the small intestine, is the transverse colon; it is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum called the transverse meso-colon. The parts to the left of the coils of the small intestine are, from above downwards, the descending colon in the lumbar region, and the iliac colon in the left iliac region. The portion of the small intestine which is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by the mesentery is arbitrarily divided into two parts, an upper two-fifths called jejunum {intestinum jejunum), and a lower three-fifths called ileum (jntesthmm ileum). Pull the jejunum and ileum downwards and to the left and follow the mesentery to its highest point, where the jejunum will be found to become continuous at a distinct fle.xure, the duodeno- jejimal jlexure, with a portion of the small intestine which is not enclosed in the mesentery but which lies behind the peritoneum below the arch of the transverse meso-colon ; this is the terminal part of the first portion of the small intestine, the duodenum. If the dissector will now hold the omentum forwards he will be able to trace the duodenum from the