INFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 20 the crest of the ilium at a point corresponding to the lateral limit of the attachment of the sacro-spinalis to the innominate bone. They pass distally and slightly anteriorly in the superficial fascia, and run in different planes, the larger trunks being placed deeper than the smaller branches. They communicate with one another and with the sacral nerves. A few twigs may be followed as far as the greater trochanter. The cutaneous twigs which come from the atiterior branches of the spinal nerves may be classified under three headings —(i) those which pass distally over the crest of the ilium; (2) those which pass dorsally over the insertion of the glutseus maximus into the fascia lata; (3) those which turn proximally round the distal margin of the glutseus maximus. The nerves which cross the crest of the ilium are—(i) ramus cutaneus lateralis of the ilio-hypogastric nerve \ and (2) the ramus cutaneus lateralis of the last thoracic nerve. The lateral cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric 7ierve pierces the external oblique muscle close to its insertion into the ilium. It usually crosses the iliac crest opposite a tubercle which projects from the lateral lip of the crest, about two and a half inches from the anterior superior spine, but it may emerge at any point between this tubercle and the anterior border of the iliac origin of the latissimus dorsi. The lateral cutaneous bra^ich of the last thoracic nerve pierces the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall, a short distance in front of the branch of the ilio-hypogastric, at a point situated from one to two inches above the iliac crest. Both nerves^ after crossing the iliac crest, run distally in the thick superficial fascia over the upper part of the glutseus medius, and spread out into a great number of fine twigs, which ramify over the insertion of the glutseus maximus. Some of them reach distally as far as the level of the greater trochanter. The nerves which pass dorsally over the insertion of the glutaeus maximus are a few small twigs of the posterior branches of the lateral cutaneous fierve of the thigh. They are found above the level of the greater trochanter. The cutaneous twigs which hook round the distal margin of the glutseus maximus muscle, to reach the skin over this region, are a few offsets from the posterior cutaneotis nerve of the thigh and the perforating cutaneous branch of the fourth sacral nerve. The former appear lateral to the tuberosity of the ischium, and are accompanied, in some cases, by twigs