535 ABDOMINAL CAAMTY 1—31 c of the abdomen proper, the student should, in the next place, direct his attention to the diaphragm—the great muscle which constitutes a mov- able partition between the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Strip the peritoneum from its lower concave surface, clean the muscular fibres and the central tendinous expansion towards which they ascend. In making this dissection be careful to preserve the inferior phrenic arteries which ramify upon this aspect of the diaphragm and also the nerves which accom- pany them. Diaphragma (Diaphragm).—The diaphragm, after the heart, is the most important muscle in the body. It forms the dome- shaped roof of the abdomen, and the highly arched and convex floor of the thorax. It is the chief muscle of respiration. Each respiratory act is accompanied by its descent and ascent, and in this way the capacity of the thoracic cavity is alternately increased and decreased in the vertical direction. The vault or cupola of the diaphragm is higher on the right side than upon the left side of the body. In forced expiration it rises on the right side as high as the upper margin of the fourth rib, close to the sternum ; whereas, on the left side, it only reaches the upper border of the fifth rib. The central portion of the diaphragm is tendinous. From this the fleshy fibres will be observed to radiate, and, at the same time, to arch downwards, so as to obtain attachment to the circumference of the lower aperture or outlet of the thorax. In fronts it takes origin from the back of the lowest segment of the sternum ; behind, it springs by two powerful partly fleshy and partly tendinous processes, called the crura, from the bodies of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, and upon each side of these from two ligamentous arches, termed the lumbo-costal arches (O.T. ligamenta arcuata) •, laterally, it arises from the lower six costal arches. Anterior Attachment.—The sternal origin consists of two slips which spring from the back of the xiphoid process. These are separated from each other by a narrow linear interval filled by areolar tissue, and comparable with the wider interval, in the medial plane behind, which separates the two crura of the diaphragm. Lateral Attachments. — The costal origin consists of six pointed and fleshy slips which spring from the deep surfaces of the lower six costal cartilages on each side. These inter- digitate with the digitations of the transversus abdominis. The sternal and costal origins of the diaphragm, on each side, are separated by a small triangular interval, in which the