ABDOMINAL CAVITY 457 forms three definite pouches: a median recto-vesical pouch, bounded in front by the bladder and behind by the rectum and laterally, on each side, by a sacro-genital fold of peritoneum, which passes from the region of the fundus of the bladder, past the side of the rectum, to the sacrum. Each of the two lateral pouches is bounded medially by the side of the bladder and the sacro-genital fold, and laterally by the side wall of the pelvis. In the female the median recto- vesical pouch of the male is divided, by the interposition of the uterus and the upper part of the vagina, into a larger posterior part, the recto-uterine pouch {pouch of Douglas)^ and a smaller anterior part, the utero-vesical pouch ; and the broad ligament which connects the lateral border of the uterus with the side wall of the pelvis divides each of the single lateral pouches present in the male into an anterior or paravesical part, and a posterior part, the lateral pouch of Douglas, in which the ovary and the termination of the oviduct are situated. Peritoneum. — The peritoneum is the great serous membrane which forms the wall of the peritoneal cavity. Externally it is blended with the subserous or extra-peritoneal tissue of the abdomen through which the vessels and nerves of the abdomen pass to their terminations. Internally it is covered with a flat glistening epithelium. In the male the cavity of the peritoneal sac is closed; that is, it does not communicate with the exterior of the body. In the female, on the other hand, it does communicate with the exterior through the female genital passages, the oviducts, the uterus, and the vagina. In neither sex, however, is it an entirely closed sac, for in both it is in direct communication with the lymph vessels, by numerous minute openings which exist on the lower surface of the diaphragm, and in other regions of the wall of the sac, and it is on this account that fluids, and fluid-borne micro-organisms which have gained entrance into the cavity of the peritoneum, pass so readily into the lymph, and thence into the general blood stream. When the abdomen was opened the cavity of the peritoneum was also opened, and the dissector’s attention was drawn to the smooth and glistening appearance of the inner surface of the serous membrane, which is due to the lining epithelium. He must have noted, as the examination of the cavity proceeded, that the peritoneum gave more or