126 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Tendon of the Flexor Pollicis Longus.—This tendon pro- ceeds distally, in the interval between two of the muscles of the thumb (viz. the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and the oblique part of the adductor pollicis),. and also in the interval between the two sesamoid bones which play upon the head of the metacarpal bone. Reaching the proximal phalanx, it enters a fibrous sheath constructed upon a similar plan to those of the fingers. When this is opened the tendon will be observed to be inserted into the volar aspect of the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. The mucous sheath which surrounds the tendon during its passage through the carpal tunnel is continuous with the sheath which invests the tendon in front of the phalanges. Dissection.—Throw distally the superficial volar arch. Divide it on the medial side distal to the origin of the profunda artery of the palm, and on the lateral side at the point where it is joined by the superficial volar artery. The median nerve may also be severed and its branches turned aside, but care should be taken to preserve the two branches which it gives to the lumbrical muscles, and also the stout branch which enters the muscles of the thenar eminence. Lastly, cut through the fleshy belly of the flexor digitorum sublimis in the forearm, and, raising its tendons from the carpal hollow, throw them as far distally as possible. The tendons of the flexor digitorum profundus and the attached lumbrical muscles are now fully displayed. Mm. Lumbricales.—These are four slender fleshy bellies which arise from the tendons of the flexor digitorum pro- fundus as they traverse the palm. The first lumbrical arises from the lateral side of the tendon for the index finger; the second lumbrical springs from the lateral border of the tendon for the middle finger; whilst the third and fourth lumbricals take origin from the adjacent sides of the tendons between which they lie (viz. the tendons for the middle, ring, and little fingers). The little muscles pass distally and end in delicate tendons on the lateral sides of the fingers. Each is inserted into the lateral margin of the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon, which lies upon the dorsal aspect of the proximal phalanx. Dissection.—The flexor digitorum profundus may be divided in the fore- arm and thrown distally. Great care must be taken in raising the tendons and lumbrical muscles from the palm, because slender twigs from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve enter the two medial lumbrical muscles on their dorsal aspects. These can easily be secured if ordinary caution be observed. The deep volar arch and the deep branch of the jjalmar part of the ulnar nerve are now exposed, and a favourable opportunity is given for studying the short muscles of the thumb and little finger.