I 19 FOREARM AND HAND I—8 c Each common volar digital artery, at the point at which it divides, is joined by the corresponding volar metacarpal artery from the deep volar arch. The proper volar digital arteries give a liberal supply of twigs to the integument, the sheaths of the tendons, and the joints of the fingers. Nervus Medianus (Median Nerve).—The median nerve enters the palm by passing deep to the transverse carpal liga- ment with the flexor tendons. In this part of its course it is overlapped by the mucous sheath which is wrapped around the tendons. Further, before it emerges it assumes a flattened form, and divides into two portions. Of these, the lateral division is slightly the smaller of the tw'o, and gives off— (i) a stout short branch to some of the intrinsic muscles of the thumb; (2) three digital branches which go to the two sides of the thumb and the lateral side of the index finger. The muscular branch takes origin at the distal border of the transverse carpal ligament, and at once turns laterally to supply the abductor pollicis, the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and the opponens pollicis. The proper volar digital nerves which run along the medial side of the thumb, and the lateral side of the index, give several branches to the fold of integument which stretches between the roots of these digits; whilst the proper volar digital branch to the lateral border of the index gives a minute twig to the first or most lateral lumbrical muscle. The larger 7Jiedial divisio?i of the median nerve divides into two branches. Of these one runs towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and splits into the proper volar digital nerves for the adjacent sides of those digits. P'rom this nerve a twig to the second lumbrical muscle is given off. The second common volar digital branch of the medial division of the median proceeds towards the cleft between the middle and ring fingers, and divides into the proper volar digital branches for their contiguous margins. In some instances the latter nerve, supplies a twig to the third lumbrical muscle. In the palm the digital branches of the median proceed distally deep to the superficial volar arch, but as they approach the fingers they come to lie volar to the common volar digital arteries, which in many cases may be observed to pass through, or perforate, the nerves. As the proper volar digital nerves lie upon the sides of the fingers, numerous