641 PELVIS wards until it lies in the same line as the vagina. When the uterus attains the last-mentioned position it is said to be retroverted. As it becomes retroverted the coils of intestine are displaced from the recto-vaginal excavation, and the uterus is forced into intimate relation with the rectum. When the rectum becomes distended the uterus is pushed forwards and usually to the right side. Dissection.—When the examination of the relations of the uterus is con- cluded, the dissector should cut through the rectum in the median plane. Then, with the saw, he should divide the sacrum and coccyx also in the median plane, and when this has been done he should cut through all the remaining tissues in the same plane and separate the two halves of the pelvis. All the remaining stages of the dissection and examination can be carried out on each half separately. Vagina.—The vagina is the passage which leads from the uterus to the vulva. In length it is about three inches, and it is widest at its upper end. Its distensibility is very great, to allow the passage of the child during parturition. The direction of the canal, when the bladder and rectum are empty, is from above downwards and forwards, parallel with the plane of the pelvic brim, so that it forms with the uterus an angle which is open towards the symphysis. Its anterior and posterior walls are closely applied, and in section, there- fore, its cavity appears either as a transverse or as a longi- tudinal slit according to the 'direction in which it is divided (Figs. 244 and 245). .\t its upper end the vagina is attached round the neck of the uterus, upon which it ascends farther posteriorly than anteriorly, so that the uterus appears to pierce the anterior wall of the vagina. The shallow sulcus at the upper end of the vagina, round the neck of the uterus, is known as the fornix of the vagina. It is formed by the reflection of the mucous membrane of the vagina on to the neck of the uterus, and is separated into anterior, posterior, and lateral parts. 'I’he dissector should examine carefully the relations of the fornices. The anterior fornix is in relation with the fundus of the bladder. The posterior fornix is in relation with the recto-vaginal excavation of peritoneum, and therefore an injury of the vagina in this region may open into the lower part of the peritoneal cavity. Each lateral fornix lies below the lower medial angle of the broad ligament, and is in close relation with the ureter, the uterine artery, and the mass of VOL. I—11 ~