THE UPPER EXTREMITY 26 in the axilla, but it is rarely present as a separate branch, and its place is usually taken by twigs from the subscapular and lateral thoracic arteries. A. Subscapularis.—The subscapular artery is the largest branch of the axillary artery. It arises opposite the inferior border of the subscapularis muscle and, following this, it runs downwards and backwards, to the inferior angle of the scapula, where its terminal twigs anastomose with the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery. In the lower part of its course it is accompanied by the thoracodorsal nerve. Not far from its origin the subscapular artery gives off a large branch, the A. circumflexa scapulce, which winds round the axillary border of the scapula, in close contact with the bone, to reach its dorsal aspect. Numerous smaller twigs are given to the neighbouring muscles. Aa. Circumflexse Humeri (O.T. Anterior and Posterior Circumflex Arteries).—These are two in number, and as a rule they both arise from the axillary at the same level, a short distance distal to the origin of the subscapular artery. The arteria circumflexa humeri posterior is much the larger of the two. Only a small portion of it can be seen at the present stage. It springs from the posterior aspect of the axillary, and at once proceeds backwards, with the axillary nerve, close to the medial and dorsal aspect of the head of the humerus, and in the interval between the subscapularis and teres major muscles. The small arteria circu?nflexa hu7neri anterior takes origin from the lateral aspect of the axillary, and runs laterally, in front of the surgical neck of the humerus, under cover of the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps brachii. Reaching the sulcus intertubercularis, it divides into two branches. Of these one is directed proximally, along the long head of the biceps brachii, to the shoulder-joint; the other passes laterally, to the under surface of the deltoid, and finally anastomoses with some of the terminal twigs of the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus. Vena Axillaris (The Axillary Vein).—This vein has the same extent as the artery. It begins at the lower border of the teres major, as the upward continuation of the basilic vein of the arm, and it becomes the subclavian vein at the lateral margin of the first rib. At the lower margin of the subscapu- laris it receives the two vence comites of the brachial artery, and above the level of the pectoralis minor it is joined by the