INFERIOR EXTREMITY 294 in slender tendons for the four lateral toes. These enter the fibrous flexor sheaths of the toes, and will be afterwards studied. The flexor digitorum brevis is supplied by the medial plantar nerve. M. Abductor Hallucis.—The abductor hallucis takes origin from the medial aspect of the medial tubercle of the'calcaneus, from the medial intermuscular septum, from the distal border of the ligamentum laciniatum, and from the medial part of the plantar aponeurosis which covers it. A strong tendon issues from the fleshy belly. This is joined, on its lateral and deep surface, by fibres of the medial head of the flexor hallucis brevis, and it is inserted into the medial aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. The abductor hallucis is supplied by the medial plantar nerve. M. Abductor Digiti Quinti (O.T. Abductor Minimi Digiti).— The origin of this muscle extends medially under cover of the flexor digitorum brevis. The latter muscle must there- fore be detached from the calcaneus and turned fonvards. The abductor digiti quinti is then seen to have a broad origin from both the medial and lateral tubercles of the calcaneus, from the lateral intermuscular septum, and the lateral part of the plantar aponeurosis which covers it. Its tendon is inserted into the lateral aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. The abductor digiti quinti is supplied by the lateral phmtar nerve. Dissection.—The origin of the abductor hallucis from the calcaneus and from the ligamentum laciniatum should be divided and the muscle turned medially. With a little dissection the mode and place of origin of the platitar arteries and nerves will be made manifest. They are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial aHery and tibial nerve, and they arise in the hollow of the calcaneus under pover of the origin of the abductor hallucis. But further, the lateral plantar artery and ne>"ve may now be traced as they pass laterally upon the (]uadratus planta: to the point where they were first seen—viz. in the interval between the abductor digiti cpiinti and the flexor digitorum brevis. In following the lateral plantar nerve, the branches which it gives to the (piadrate plantar muscle and the abductor digiti (piinti must be secured. The latter nerve lies close to the tubercle of the calcaneus. Art. Plantaris Medialis (O.T. Internal Plantar Artery). —This is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery. It arises in the hollow between the medial malleolus and the prominence of the calcaneus, at or proximal to the distal border of the ligamentum laciniatum. At first it is placed under cover of the abductor hallucis, but