334 INFERIOR EXTREMITY The long plantar ligament, therefore, extends over the greater part of the plantar aspect of the lateral portion of the tarsus, and is the longest of the tarsal ligaments. Further, it forms the greater part of the sheath of the tendon of the peronaeus longus. The Plantar Calcaneo cuboid Ligament (O.T. Short Plantar Ligament) is placed under cover of the long plantar ligament. Slip the knife between them and carry the cutting edge backwards so as to detach the long plantar from the distal surface of the calcaneus. On throwing the detached band forwards the plantar calcaneo-cuboid ligament comes into view and little dissection is required to make its connections apparent. It is composed of short, strong fibres, not more than an inch in length. They spring from the small tubercle on the anterior part of the distal surface of the calcaneus, and are attached, anteriorly, to the distal surface of the cuboid, posterior to its tuberosity. The ligament is broader than the long plantar ligament and is apparent along the medial border of the latter before it is reflected. In the maintenance of the longitudinal arch of the foot, the long plantar ligament and the plantar calcaneo-cuboid ligament have an importance which is surpassed only by that of the plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament. The joint between the talus and the navicular and that between the calcaneus and the cuboid are frequently referred to together as the trans- verse tarsal joint. It is here that the movements of eversion and inversion of the foot chiefly take place, and it should be noted that all the ligaments which connect together the anterior and the posterior segments of the tarsus at this joint, except one, are attached posteriorly to the calcaneus. They are :— Plantar calcaneo-navicular,'! Lateral calcaneo-navicular. Long plantar, )■ Attached to the calcaneus. Plantar calcaneo-cuboid, Calcaneo-cuboid capsule, J Dorsal talo-navicular, } Attached to the talus. Inter - cuneiform Articulations. — The three cuneiform bones are held together so firmly that very little individual movement is permitted. The chief uniting structures are two strong interosseous Ugametits which pass between the non- articular portions of their opposed surfaces. These can only be seen when the bones are separated from each other. Dorsal inter-cuneiform ligaments are also present. These are short, flat, transversely-placed bands.