632 ABDOMEN membrane may extend down over the fundus of the bladder for a very short distance. The False Ligaments of the Bladder.—As in the male, there are five false ligaments of the bladder, two lateral, two posterior, and one superior. They are all formed by the peritoneum. The two lateral are merely the parts of the peritoneal membrane which connect the lateral borders of the superior surface of the bladder with the side walls of the pelvis; they form the floors of the paravesical fossae. The superior or plica umbilicalis media is the fold of peritoneum which is raised up by the urachus, and the two posterior are the ill-marked folds which pass from the upper part of the base of the bladder to the front of the neck of the uterus; they form the lateral boundaries of the utero-vesical excavation. The True Ligaments of the Bladder.—These are five in number, two anterior, two lateral, one superior. The lateral and the anterior ligaments are portions of the visceral layer of pelvic fascia, the lateral pubo-vesical ligaments are merely the lateral parts of the vesical lamella, whilst the anterior or medial pubo-vesical ligaments are thickenings of the anterior part of the same lamella, one on each side of the medial plane. The lateral connect the infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder to the main layer of the visceral pelvic fascia, and indirectly to the side wall of the pelvis. The anterior bind the anterior border of the bladder to the back of the symphysis pubis. It is doubtful if the term ligamentum icmbilicale medium is properly applied, but it is sometimes given to the urachus, which connects the apex of the bladder with the anterior abdominal wall. Dissection.—To examine the interior of the bladder an incision should be made through the anterior border, and through the infero-lateral surfaces immediately below their junction with the superior surface. When this has been done the superior surface should be raised and the anterior border and infero-lateral surfaces should be depressed ; a good view of the interior will then be obtained. The mucous membrane should then be cleaned with a sponge and its general characters and the orifices of the bladder should be studied. The Mucous Membrane, the Trigone, and the Orifices of the Bladder.—Over the greater part of the inner surface of the empty bladder the mucous membrane is rugose on account of the laxity of its connection with the muscular coat, but in a triangular area on the lower part of the fundus.