520 ABDOMEN The portion of the right lobe which lies in front of the porta and between the fossa for the gall-bladder on the right and the fossa for the umbilical vein on the left is the quadrate lobe, which frequently bears impressions made by the pylorus and the first part of the duodenum. Behind the porta and between the lower ends of the fossa for the ductus venosus and the fossa for the inferior vena cava is the lower end of the caudate lobe, which is usually divided, by a shallow sulcus, into a nodular left or papillary process^ which pro- jects downwards into the cavity of the omental bursa, and a right, band-like or caudate process which connects the lower end of the caudate lobe with the main part of the lower surface of the right lobe. The remainder of the lower surface of the right lobe is marked by three shallow impressions; (i) a.t the right extremity of the porta hepatis is an antero-posterior sulcus, the impressio ditodefjalis, for the second part of the duodenum; (2) to the right of the fossa for the gall-bladder is the impressio colica for the hepatic flexure of the colon; (3) behind the impressio colica is the impressio renalis for the upper part of the anterior surface of the right kidney. Occasionally a fourth impression exists behind the impressio duodenalis; this is the impressio stipra- renalis, which is always present on the posterior surface and which may extend on to the inferior surface. The lower surface of the left lobe is marked by an elevation, the tuber omentale, and a depression, the imp7-essio gastrica. The tuber ornentale lies immediately opposite the left extremity of the porta hepatis and, when the liver is in position, it rests against the lesser omentum immediately above the small curvature of the stomach. The gastric impression occupies the remainder of the lower surface of the left lobe lying in front and to the left of the tuber ornentale. The Posterior Surface of the Liver (Figs. 200 and 201).— This is moulded upon the front of the vertebral column, from which it is separated by the diaphragm and the lower part of the descending thoracic aorta. It presents, therefore, a deep hollow corresponding to the bodies of the vertebrae and the structures in front of them. Immediately to the left of the fossa of the ductus venosus there is a smooth notch or groove imp7'essio a’sophagea which leads downwards into the gastric impression on the under surface of the left lobe. This groove lodges the oesophagus. Beyond the oesophageal groove