FOREARM AND HAND 97 It should be noted that, except in the case of the thumb and little finger, the dorsal collateral nerves do not reach the extremities of the digits. The skin on the dorsum of the second and third phalanges of the digits is chiefly supplied by twigs which proceed backwards, from the palmar collateral branches of the median and ulnar nerves. As already stated, it is from the branch of the superficial division of the radial nerve, which goes to the lateral side of the thumb, that the radial palmar aitaneous 7ierve arises. Numerous fine filaments are given to the skin on the dorsum of the. hand, and a certain amount of crossing of the adjacent ulnar and radial twigs takes place in this locality; in other words, twigs from the one nerve invade the territory which is occupied by the other nerve. Fascia Antibrachii (Fascia of the Forearm).—The deep fascia which envelops the forearm should now be cleaned by removing the subcutaneous adipose tissue. It is an apon- eurosis of great strength and density. More particularly is this the case on the dorsal aspect of the limb, and also in the distal third of the forearm, where the fleshy bellies of the subjacent muscles give place to the tendons. In its proximal part it receives an accession of fibres from the tendon of the biceps brachii in the form of the lacertus fibrosus. Some fibres are also given to it by the tendon of the triceps. Near the elbow it serves as a surface of origin for the numerous muscles which spring from the epicondyles of the humerus, and from its deep aspect dense septa pass between the fleshy bellies. These partitions are indicated on the surface by a series of white lines. At the wrist it becomes continuous in front with the lig. carpi volare and the lig. carpi transversutn (O.T. ant. annular lig.), whilst behind it forms an obliquely placed, thickened band, the lig. catpi dorsale (post, annular lig.). On the dorsum of the hand the deep fascia is thin. Volar Surface and Medial Border of the Forearm. In this dissection the following structures will be brought under the notice of the student:— 1. The radial and ulnar arteries and their branches. 2. The median and ulnar nerves and their branches. 3. The ramus profundus (O.T. posterior interosseous) and the ramus super- ficialis of the n. radialis. 4. The group of pronator and flexor muscles. VOL. 1—7