629 PELVIS upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm which is now seen from the front. Pass a finger into the vagina, and note that both the urethra and the vagina pass through the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm which is reflected backwards along their borders. Divide the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm on both sides, and again note that, at the sides of the urethra and the vagina, it is continuous round the anterior border of the levator ani with the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. Divide the pubes on each side with the saw along a line commencing on the margin of the pubic arch, below the attachment of the arcuate ligament, and terminating above at the lateral border of the tubercle of the pubis. Pass the knife behind the pubis and separate the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia from its attachment to the bone between the saw cuts. The separated piece of bone may now be removed and should be kept for the examination of the ligaments of the symphysis (see pp. 618, 650). If necessary a further portion of the margin of the pubic arch may be removed on each side to give room for the examination of the relations of the vagina and the urethra. The dissector should now make his final examination of the pelvic fascia. Tracing the upper surface of the visceral layer medially, he will find that it spreads out on the infero-lateral surfaces and anterior border of the bladder, and that in front of the bladder it covers the front of the urethra and the vagina. The latter part presents a free border where it was detached from the back of the pubes, and beneath this border the dorsal vein of the clitoris can be traced towards the bladder, where it joins the vesical plexus. In this part of the fascia the two thickened bands which form the medial pubo-vesical ligaments will be noted. If the dissector next traces the fascia medially, followuig its lower surface, he will find that it passes behind the rectum, and he will thus demonstrate that the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia splits as it passes towards the medial plane, one layer, the vesical, passing on to the bladder and in front of the urethra and vagina, and a second layer, the rectal, which passes behind the rectum. There is, however, a third layer, the recto-vaginal, which crosses between the rectum and the vagina. To demonstrate this layer the dissector should divide the vesical layer in the medial plane in front of the bladder and turn the lateral halves towards the lateral walls of the pelvis. In this way he will expose the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina, the two being closely bound together, and when the lateral border of the vagina is reached he will find that the vesical layer of the fascia blends with a deeper layer which passes behind the vagina ; this is the recto-vaginal layer. On the anterior wall of the vagina, and more particularly along its lateral border, the dissector should note a plexus of veins, the vaginal plexus. The recto-vaginal layer of the pelvic fascia should also be displayed from below. To do this the dissector must cut transversely through the tissue of the perineal body, which lies in front of the anal orifice, until he reaches the junction of the anal passage with the rectum. When this point is attained he will find that he can quite easily separate the rectum from the vagina with his finger, and that intervening between the two is the recto-vaginal layer of fascia which he previously exposed from above. Before terminating his study of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia the student should note that the floor of the pelvic cavity of the female is formed, as in the male, by the levatores ani and the coccygei muscles, and the upper and lower fascial