THE LEG 289 malleolar; (/>) perforating branch of peroneal; (c) terminal part of peroneal; and (d) lateral tarsal. On the inedial aspect of the joint the medial malleolar branch of the anterior tibial anastomoses with small twigs from the medial calcanean branches of the posterior tibial. In this dissection the dissector will meet with the follow- ing structures:— 1. Superficial fascia and cutaneous vessels and nerves. 2. Plantar aponeurosis. 4. Lateral and medial plantar vessels. 5. Lateral and medial plantar nerves. 6. Tendons of flexor hallucis longus and flexor digitorum longus. 7. M. quadratus plantK and lumbrical muscles. 8. Flexor hallucis brevis. Adductor hallucis, transverse and oblique heads. 9. Flexor brevis digiti quinti. 10. Plantar arterial arch. 11. Plantar metatarsal arteries. 12. Tendons of peronreus longus and tibialis posterior. 13. Interosseous muscles. Reflection of Skin.—The limb should be placed upon the table, with the sole of the foot facing the dissector, and the ankle supported by a good- sized block. Two incisions are required—(i) a longitudinal incision along the middle line of the sole, from the heel to the root of the middle toe ; (2) a transverse cut, at the digital extremity of the medial incision, across the sole at the roots of the toes. The skin should also be reflected from the plantar surface of each of the toes. This can be done by means of a longitudinal incision along its middle line. Superficial Fascia.—When the flaps of skin which are mapped out by the above incisions are reflected, the peculiar character of the thick layer of superficial fascia becomes apparent. It is tough and granular, and in some respects resembles the superficial fascia which covers the tuber ischiadicum. Traversing it are tough fibrous bands, which subdivide the fatty tissue into small lobules, and connect the thick skin of the sole with the plantar aponeurosis. Dissection.—The medial calcanean nerves, which have already been found piercing the ligamentum laciniatum, should be tracqd to their dis- tribution. They supply the skin of the sole in the neighbourhood of the heel. SOLE OF THE FOOT. 1. Superficial muscles. VOL. I—19