ABDOMEN 404 1. The intercostal and lumbar arteries. 2. The inferior epigastric. 3. The deep circumflex iliac. 4. The superior epigastric. 5. The musculo-phrenic. The intercostal arteries of the two lower spaces are pro- longed forwards between the internal oblique and the trans- versus abdominis. They have already been noted accom- panying the corresponding nerves. In front they anasto- mose with branches of the epigastric arteries, whilst inferiorly they effect communications with the lumbar arteries. The abdominal brattches of the lumbar arteries ramify between the same two muscles as the preceding vessels, but at a lower level in the abdominal wall. Anteriorly they anastomose with branches of the inferior epigastric artery; above with the intercostal arteries; and below with the deep circumflex iliac and the ilio-lumbar arteries. Arteria Epigastrica Inferior (O.T. Deep Epigastric Artery). —This branch of the external iliac is a vessel of some size. It takes origin about a quarter of an inch above the inguinal ligament. At present it is seen shining through the fascia transversalis and forming the lateral boundary of Hesselbach’s triangle. Divide the fascia transversalis along its course and note the two veins which accompany the artery. Study the course and relations of this vessel. At first it runs medially for a short distance between the inguinal ligament and the abdominal inguinal ring, and then chang- ing its direction it is carried upwards and medially on the medial side of the ring. Reaching the deep surface of the rectus it enters the rectal sheath, and proceeding vertically upwards, ends, near the lower margin of the thorax, in branches which sink into the substance of the muscle and anastomose with the superior epigastric. In the first part of its course, the deep epigastric lies in the extra-peritoneal fat between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis. Soon, however, it pierces the fascia, and, passing in front of the linea semilunaris, ascends between the rectus muscle and the posterior lamella of its sheath. These arc its immediate relations, but there are others of equal importance, viz. (i) its it runs upwards it lies close to the medial side of the abdominal inguinal ring; (2) as the spermatic cord traverses the inguinal canal it lies in front of the artery, only separated