480 ABDOMEN 1. Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. 2. Intestinal. To the jejunum and ileum. 3. Ileo-colic. 1 Right colic. V To the large intestine. Middle colic. J Arteria Pancreatico-duodenalis Inferior. — The inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch takes origin from the upper part of the superior mesenteric artery, or from its first intestinal branch, and passes upwards and to the right behind the head of the pancreas. It gives branches both to the duodenum and the pancreas and anastomoses with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. The Arterise Intestinales, jejunales et ilese (Intestinal Arteries) spring from the convexity or left side of the superior mesenteric, and proceed obliquely downwards and to the left, between the layers of the mesentery, to supply the jejunum and ileum. They are very numerous, from twelve to fifteen, or even more, in number, and, by their mutual inoscula- tions, they form a very remarkable succession of arches before they finally reach the bowel. At first they run parallel to one another, but soon each divides into two branches, which join the immediately adjacent branches of the neighbouring stems, and in this way a series of arterial arcades is formed. From these smaller vessels proceed, which divide and unite in a similar manner to form a second series of arches, and so on, until three, four, or perhaps even five tiers of arterial arcades are produced. From the most peripheral arches a multitude of small branches pass directly to the wall of the intestine. Here, along the line of mesenteric attachment, they divide, and the minute twigs thus derived pass trans- versely round the gut so as to encircle it. At first they lie subjacent to the peritoneal coat, but soon they seek a deeper plane in the wall of the intestine, and ultimately reach the submucous coat. The Arteria Ileo-colica springs from the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and proceeds down- wards and laterally towards the right iliac fossa. It is placed behind the parietal peritoneum, and divides into an ascending and a descending or ileo-csecal branch. The ascendmg branch turns upwards, inosculates with a branch of the right colic, and from the arterial arch thus formed branches are given to the ascending colon. The descending branch, sometimes called the iieo-ccEcal artery, proceeds to the upper part of the ileo-