FOREARM AND HAND lOI are the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, the flexor digitorum sublimis, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, in that order from the lateral to the medial side. The fleshy belly of the flexor sublimis only partially comes to the surface ; the chief bulk of it is placed upon a deeper plane than the others. The deep group is composed of three muscles, placed in contact with the bones and interosseous membrane of the forearm, viz. the flexor digitorum profundus in relation to the ulna, the flexor pollicis longus in relation to the radius, and the pronator quadratus closely applied to the lower ends of both bones. Dissection.—The superficial group of muscles should now be dissected. The brachioradialis, which lies along the lateral side of the forearm, may be cleaned at the same time. In the lower part of the forearm the dis- sector will observe that the flexor tendons are enveloped by a loose bursa mucosa as they pass into the palm, under cover of the transverse carpal ligament. A good view of this may be obtained by pulling the tendons upwards. If possible, the sac should be retained uninjured, in order that its full extent may be studied when the palm of the hand is opened up. At this stage it is also well to define the transverse carpal ligament which bridges across the front of the carpus. The tendon of the palmaris longus passes in front of it, whilst close to the pisiform bone the ulnar artery and nerve are placed upon its volar surface, and give the dissector the key to its depth. This vessel, with its accompanying nerve, are bound down to the ligament by a more superficial band of fascia, the ligamentum carpi volare, which passes over them, and which the student is very apt to mistake for the transverse ligament itself. This band of fascia should not be disturbed in the meantime. Common Origin of the Superficial Muscles. — The five muscles which constitute the superficial group are very closely associated with each other at the elbow—indeed, they may be said to arise by a common origin from the front of the medial epicondyle of the humerus. In addition to this they all derive fibres from the investing deep fascia of the limb, near the elbow, and from the strong fibrous septa which pass between the muscles from the deep surface of investing fascia. The pronator teres, the flexor sublimis, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, have likewise additional heads of origin. M. Pronator Teres (Pronator Radii Teres).—This muscle crosses the proximal half of the front of the forearm obliquely. It arises by two heads, viz. a humeral and an ulnar. The humeral head constitutes the chief bulk of the muscle. It springs from the proximal part of the medial epicondyle of the humerus, and also slightly by fleshy fibres from the distal part of the medial epicondylar ridge. The fascia covering it 1—7 h