98 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Dissection.—With the exception of the palmar cutaneous nerves, the superficial veins and nerves on the volar aspect of the forearm may now be turned aside. The deep fascia should also be removed, and when it is followed round the medial border of the forearm it will be found to be firmly attached to the dorsal border of the ulna. Near the elbow, as already stated, it gives origin by its deep surface to the group of muscles which spring from the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Where this is the case, it should be left in situ. Attempts to dissect it off will only result in laceration of the surface of the subjacent fleshy bellies. The radial artery should be followed out before the muscles are much disturbed, and at the same time the various muscles, covering the volar surface of the radius, and upon which the vessel rests, should be cleaned. Arteria Radialis (Radial Artery).—The radial artery is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the brachial artery, but its direction gives it the appearance of being the continuation of the parent trunk into the forearm. It takes origin in the fossa cubitalis, opposite the neck of the radius, and it proceeds downwards, along the lateral side of the volar aspect of the limb, until it reaches the distal end of the bone. There it turns round the lateral border of the wrist and leaves the present dissection. At first it lies between the pronator teres and the brachioradialis, and is overlapped to some extent on the lateral side by the fleshy belly of the latter muscle (Fig. 41). Lower down it is placed between the brachioradialis on the lateral side and the flexor carpi radialis upon the medial side, and this position it maintains as far as the wrist. Where these muscles are fleshy the artery lies at some depth from the surface; but when the tendons make their appearance it assumes a superficial position, and is merely covered by the integument and fascia. Through- out its whole length it is closely accompanied by the vetia comites, and the superficial division of the radial nerve lies along its lateral side in the middle third of the forearm. More proximally, the nerve is separated from the vessel by a slight interval; whilst distally., the nerve leaves the artery and turns round the lateral margin of the forearm under cover of the brachioradialis. Posteriorly the radial artery is supported by the muscles which clothe and find attachment to the volar surface of the radius. At its origin it rests upon the tendon of the biceps brachii; next it lies in front of the supinator with some adipose tissue intervening; thence distally it is in contact with the pronator teres, the thin radial head of the flexor digitorum sublimis, the flexor pollicis longus, the pronator quadratus, and lastly, the distal end of the radius.