FOREARM AND HAND ■23 turn out to be uninjured, a very striking demonstration may be obtained by inflating them with air by means of the blowpipe. The apertures through which the air is introduced should be made at the proximal margin of the transverse ligament. It is said that the mucous sheath which invests the tendons of the fle.xor digitorum sublimis and flexor digitorum profundus is divided by a vertical partition into two compartments, and that the lateral of these communicates, by means of a small aperture near the upper border of the transverse carpal liga- ment, with the mucous sheath of the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. Flexor Tendons.—Open the carpal tunnel by making a vertical incision through the transverse carpal ligament at its middle. The arrangement of the flexor tendons can now be studied, and the mucous sheath dissected from the surface of each. The tendon of the flexor pollicis longus occupies the lateral part of the canal, and gaining the palm turns laterally to reach the phalanges of the thumb. The four tendons of the flexor sublimis are arranged in pairs behind the transverse carpal ligament; those for the little and the index fingers lying dorsal to those for the ring and middle fingers. Of the tendons of the flexor profutidus^ only that for the index finger is distinct and separate; the other three, as a rule, remain united until they emerge from under cover of the tran.sverse carpal ligament. In the central compartment of the palm the flexor tendons diverge from each other, and two, viz. one from the flexor sublimis, and one from the flexor profundus, go to each of the four fingers. From the tendons of the flexor profundus the lumbrical muscles take origin, and these, with the common volar digital nerves and arteries, will be seen occupying the intervals between the tendons as they approach the roots of the fingers. In the flngers the two flexor tendons run distally upon the volar aspects of the phalanges, and are held in position by the flexor sheaths. These, therefore, must be studied be- fore the insertions of the tendons can be examined. Flexor Sheaths. — Immediately subjacent to the skin, the superficial fa.scia and the proper volar digital arteries and nerves lie the fibrous sheaths which bind the flexor tendons to the volar surfaces of the phalanges and to the volar accessory ligaments of the metacarj)o-phalangeal and inter-