MALE PERINEUM 347 internus muscle, and this again is covered by the parietal or obturator layer of the pelvic fascia which is continued down to be attached to the tuberosity of the ischium and the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum. On the other hand, the anal canal is clothed latero-medially by—(i) the anal fascia or inferior fascia of the pelvic diaphragm, a thin aponeurotic membrane which invests the lateral surface of the levator ani; (2) by the levator ani muscle ; and (3) by the rectal portion of the upper fascia of the pelvic diaphragm (O.T. visceral layer of the pelvic fascia)—a thin layer of fascia which covers that part of the medial surface of the levator ani which is applied to the anal part of the rectum (Fig. 130). Strictly speaking, therefore, the perpendicular lateral or ischial ivall of the fossa is formed by the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia, and the sloping medial or rectal wall by the anal fascia. Anteriorly, the space is limited by the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (O.T. triangular ligament)—whilst posteriorly, it is bounded by the posterior or distal margin of the glutreus maximus and the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum. Contents.—The ischio-rectal fossa is completely filled up by a mass of fat which is prolonged upwards into it from the superficial fascia. The soft, pliable nature of this fat readily allows of the distension of the anal canal. Embedded in its midst are certain blood-vessels and nerves. Crossing the fossa from its lateral to its medial wall are the mferior hcemorrhoidal vessels and nerve; entering the fossa at its posterior part is the peritieal branch of the fotirth sacral nerve; turning round the distal border of the glutaeus maximus, not far from the coccyx, is the perforating cutaneous branch of the second and third sacral nerves; whilst in the anterior part of the space will be found the scrotal branches of the perineal nerve (Fig. 129). Dissection.—Begin by exposing the margin of the gluUeus maximus muscle. Take a point a short distance to the lateral side of the tuber ischiadicum and another in the middle line about an inch above the tip of the coccyx, and cut boldly down through the superficial fascia, in a line between these points, until the fleshy fibres become visible. Winding round the margin of the muscle, so as to gain its superficial aspect, there are a few small arteries and nerves. The arteries are derived from the inferior luemorrhoidal vessels, or from the inferior gluteal arterj', whilst the nerves are the perforating cutaneous branch from the second and third sacral nerves and some offsets from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. .-Ml are destined for the supply of the skin on the distal part of the gluteal region. The perforating cutaneous nerve turns round the margin of the gluteus maximus close to the coccyx, whilst the cutaneous branches from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh appear on the