4 THE UPPER PEX'rREMPrY superior surface of the acromion of the scapula. By moving the limb, however, the joint can easily be detected. In strong contrast to this is the sternoclavicular joint, where the medial end of the clavicle can be felt as a marked projection, although this is masked to the eye by the sternal part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The incisura jugularis (suprasternal notch), on the upper border of the manubrium sterni between the clavicles, should next be felt, and then the finger can be carried downwards, in the middle line, along the anterior aspect of the sternum. A prominent ridge, crossing the bone transversely at the level of the second costal cartilages, indicates the junction between the corpus sterni and the manubrium. The portion of the sternum uncovered by the two greater pectoral muscles is narrow above, but it widens out below, and suddenly, at the lower end of the corpus sterni, the finger sinks into a depression, between the cartilages of the seventh pair of ribs, and rests upon the xiphoid process. The depression is termed the in- frasternal fossa, or pit of the stomach. The costal arches below the first are easily recognised, but the first rib lies deeply under the clavicle, and can only be felt in front at its junction with the manubrium sterni. The arm should now be abducted (i.e. carried laterally from the trunk), when the hollow of the armpit will be brought into view, as well as the two rounded folds which bound it in front and behind. The anterior fold of the axilla is formed by the lower border of the pectoralis major, and to a small extent also by the lower border of the pectoralis minor. The posterior fold, which is formed by the latissimus dorsi, as it winds round the teres major muscle, is carried downwards to a lower level than the anterior fold. This, as will be seen later on, is an important point in connection with the anatomy of the axilla. If the finger be pushed upwards into the axilla the globular head of the humerus can be felt, when the arm is rotated. One other point demands the attention of the student before the dis- section is commenced, and that is, the position of the nipple. As a rule it lies superficial to the interspace between the fourth and fifth ribs, and it is situated rather more than four inches from the middle line. The student should examine these various landmarks not only upon the body but upon himself and his friends until he is perfectly familiar with them, both by touch and sight, and I f fi t. V >■ »- V s r