AXILLARY SPACE 15 immediately below their attachment to the clavicle, and turn them distally tbSvards their insertion. Whilst doing this secure the branches of the lateral anterior thoracic nerve as they pass into the muscle. Under cover of the clavicular jiart of the pectoralis major follow the cephalic vein and the deltoid branch of the thoraco-acroinial artery medially and secure the acromial and pectoral branches of the latter artery. Clean these vessels, and directly below the clavicle display the coslo-coracoidmembrane, and, more inferiorly and laterally, the fascia on the proximal and lateral ]iart of the pectoralis minor. Cut through the sternocostal part of the pectoralis major about two inches from the lateral border of the sternum. Turn the medial part towards the medial plane, verifying its attachment to the costal cartilages and to the sternum and to the aponeurosis of the external obli(iue muscle of the abdomen. Turn the lateral part of the muscle towards the arm ; whilst doing this secure the medial anterior thoracic nerve which perforates the pectoralis minor and ends in the pectoralis major. Examine the insertion of the pectoralis major. Note that the tendon of insertion consists of two laminae which are united together below ; in other words, the tendon is folded on itself and between the two laminae a mucous bursa is frecpiently interposed. The clavicular fibres and the upper sternocostal fibres are attached to the anterior lamina ; the lower sternocostal fibres to the posterior lamina. Both laminae are attached to the lateral lip of the intertubercular sulcus of the humerus, but the deep lamina ascends to a higher level, and it becomes continuous above with a layer of fascia which is attached to the small tubercle of the humerus. The inferior border of the tendon of insertion is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. When the pectoralis major is completely reflected a continuous sheet ol fascia is exix)sed, which extends from the clavicle superiorly to the axillary fascia inferiorly and from the wall of the thorax medially to the arm laterally ; this is the so-called clavi'pectoral fascia or suspensory ligamenl of the axilla. It is because of the attachment of this fascial sheet to the clavicle superiorly and to the axillary fascia inferiorly that the floor of the axilla is raised when the clavicle is elevated as the arm is abducted from the side. The pectoralis minor muscle, passing obliquely from its origin on the thoracic wall to its insertion into the coracoid process of the scapula, runs through the substance of the clavipectoral fascia and divides it into three parts : (i) the part above the muscle, (2) the part which encloses the muscle, and (3) the part below the muscle. The uppermost part is the costocoracoid membrane, the intermediate part is the sheath of the pectoralis minor. No special term is applied to the lowest part, but it should be noted that it lies posterior to the lower part of the pectoralis major, and that it covers the lower portions of the axillary vessels and nerves. Membrana Costocoracoidea (Costo-coracoid Membrane).— The costo-coracoid membrane occupies the gap between the clavicle above and the pectoralis minor below. It extends from the first rib medially to the coracoid process laterally, and from the clavicle above to the pectoralis minor below. Its upper part is split into two layers, an anterior and a posterior, which are attached to the corresponding borders of the clavicle. Enclosed between them is the subclavius muscle. The strongest part of the membrane is that which extends along the lower border of the subclavius, from the first rib to