THE UPPER EXTREMITY 162 siderable range of movement. On the dorsal and lateral aspects of the articulation it is specially thickened. Its cavity is distinct from that of the adjacent articulations. The four tnedial metacarpal bones are connected to the carpus by volar and dorsal ligaments, and by one interosseous ligament. Each of these metacarpal bones, with the exception of the fifth, possesses, as a rule, two dorsal ligaments and one volar ligament. The articulation of the fifth metacarpal bone is also closed on the medial side by ligamentous fibres. The interosseous ligament springs from the contiguous distal margins of the os capitatum and os hamatum, and passes to the medial side of the base of the third metacarpal bone. Dissection.—To display this ligament, divide the bands which connect the bases of the third and fourth metacarpal bones, and sever the dorsal ligaments which bind the two medial metacarpal bones to the carpus. The metacarpal bones thus set free can then be forcibly bent volarwards, when the ligament in question will come into view. Synovial Membranes of the Carpal, Carpo-metacarpal, and Intermetacarpal Joints.—The articulations between the os pisiform and the os triquetrum as well as the carpo- metacarpal joint of the thumb both possess separate capsules, but the various ligaments of the intercarpal, carpo-metacarpal, and proximal intermetacarpal joints, though they are spoken of individually as separate ligaments, constitute collectively a single capsule, which surrounds a continuous joint cavity. The synovial membrane of the capsule is prolonged over all parts of the bones, enclosed within the capsule, which are not covered by articular cartilage, and it is continued proximally between the three bones of the proximal row of the carpus as far as the interosseous ligaments which connect the bones together. It covers the distal surfaces of these ligaments and is excluded by them from the radio-carpal joint. It passes also between the four bones of the distal row of the carpus and covers the inner surfaces of the ligaments of the carpo-metacarpal joints and the ligaments of the four medial intermetacarpal articulations. In some cases the interosseous ligament which connects the base of the third metacarpal to the os capitatum and os hamatum shuts off the articulation of the os hamatum with the two medial metacarpal bones, and converts the articulation of the os hamatum with the two medial metacarpal bones into a separate segment of the carpo-metacarpal joint.