INFERIOR EXTREMITY i86 pass behind the inguinal ligament into the canalis femoralis or most medial compartment of the femoral sheath. The arrangement of the parts which occupy the interval between the hip bone and the inguinal ligament has been carefully considered, and the dissector should therefore be in a position to understand how the occurrence of such a protrusion is rendered possible. To the medial side of the femoral sheath the interval is closed by the lacunar ligament, which, by its strength and firm connections, constitutes an impassable barrier in this locality. To the lateral side of the femoral sheath a hernial protrusion is equally impossible. There the fascia trahsversalis on the anterior wall of the abdomen becomes continuous with the fascia iliaca on the posterior wall of the abdomen, and along the line of union both are firmly attached to the inguinal ligament. It is in the region of the femoral sheath, then, that femoral hernia takes place. The three compartments of the sheath open above into the abdominal cavity, but there is an essential difference between the three openings. The two lateral, which hold the artery and the vein, are completely filled up by their contents. The canalis femoralis, or most medial compartment, is not; it is much wider than is necessary for the passage of the fine lymph vessels which traverse it. Further, its widest part is the upper opening or annuhts femoralis. It has been noted that this is wide enough to admit the point of the little finger, and it forms a weak point in the parietes of the abdomen ; a source of weakness which is greater in the female than in the male, seeing that in the former the distance between the iliac spine and the pubic tubercle is proportionally greater, and in consequence the annulus femoralis wider. Femoral hernia, therefore, is more common in the female. When attempts are made to reduce a femoral hernia, it is absolutely necessary that the course which the protrusion has taken should be kept constantly before the mind of the operator. In the first instance it descends for a short distance in a perpendicular direction. It then turns forward and bulges through the fossa ovalis. Should it still continue to enlarge, it bends upwards over the inguinal ligament, and pushes its way laterally towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The protrusion is thus bent upon itself, and if it is to be reduced successfully it must be made to retrace its steps. In other words, it must be drawn distally, and then pushed gently posteriorly and upwards. The position of the limb during this procedure must be attended to. When the thigh is fully extended and rotated laterally all the fascial structures in the neighbour- hood of the canalis femoralis are rendered tight and tense. When the limb is flexed at the hip-joint and rotated medially, on the other hand, the cornu superius of the margin of the fossa ovalis, and even the lacunar ligament, are relaxed. This, then, is the position in which the limb should be placed during the reduction of the hernia. As the hernia descends it carries before it the various layers which it meets in the form of coverings. First it pushes before it the peritoneum, and this forms the hernial sac. The other coverings from within outwards are—(i) the septum femorale ; (2) the wall of the femoral sheath (if it does not burst through one of the apertures in this); (3) the fascia cribrosa; (4) and lastly, the superficial fascia and skin. The femoral canal, as we have noted, is surrounded by very unyielding structures. Strangulation in cases of femoral hernia is therefore a matter of very common occurrence. The sharp base of the lacunar ligament and the superior cornu of the margin of the fossa ovalis are especially apt to bring about this condition. Abnormal Obturator Artery.—The account of the surgical anatomy of femoral liernia cannot be complete without mention of the relation which the obturator artery frequently bears to the annulus femoralis. In