284 INFERIOR EXTREMITY posterior tibial close to its origin, and after giving some twigs to muscles enters the nutrient foramen of the tibia. It is remarkable on account of its large size. The communicating branch is given off about an inch proximal to the distal end of the tibia. It passes transversely laterally, under cover of the flexor hallucis longus, and joins the peroneal artery. The jnedial calcanean branches pierce the ligamentum laciniatum, and accompany the nerve of the same name to the skin of the heel and the sole. The peroneal artery is a large branch which proceeds from the posterior tibial about one inch or so distal to its origin. In the present stage of the dissection it is seen running obliquely distally and laterally upon the tibialis posterior to reach the fibula. It is covered by the soleus, and is accompanied by the nerve to the flexor hallucis longus. It cannot be traced further at present, as it sinks into the substance of that muscle. Crural Part of Nervus Tibialis (O.T. Posterior Tibial Nerve).—The tibial nerve is continued from the fossa poplitea through the posterior region of the leg to the hollow between the heel and the medial malleolus where it divides into the lateral and medial plantar nerves. It accompanies the posterior tibial vessels, and presents the same relations. For a short distance, in the proximal part of the leg, it lies on the medial side of the posterior tibial artery, but it soon crosses the artery, and is then continued distally, for the remainder of its course, on the lateral side of the vessel. It supplies—(a) muscular branches to the tibialis posterior, flexor hallucis longus, and flexor digitorum longus; (b) cutaneous hvigs, the inedial calcanean braiTches, which spring from it close to its termination, and pierce the ligamentum laciniatum to reach the integument of the heel and sole of the foot; and (c) articular filaments to the ankle-joint. Deep Muscles.—The popliteus muscle will be seen lying upon the posterior aspect of the knee-joint and upon the posterior surface of the tibia proximal to the linea poplitea. Its tendon of origin lies within the capsule of the knee-joint, and can only be properly studied when that articulation is dissected. Note the strong fascia which covers the posterior surface of the popliteus, and trace it proximally and medially to the medial side of the