327 ARTICULATIONS capsule with accessory thickenings. The lower joint is a syndesmosis, the tibiofihularis syndesmosis, but in some cases a prolongation of the cavity of the ankle-joint projects between the distal ends of the tibia and fibula. The inter- osseous membrane which occupies the interval between the bodies of the bones may be regarded as a ligament common to both joints. Dissection.—Preparatory to the examination of the tibio-fibular joints the foot must be removed by dividing the ligaments on the medial and lateral aspects of the ankle-joint. The muscles must also be detached from both aspects of the interosseous membrane and the bones of the leg. The ligaments may now be defined. Membrana Interossea Cruris (Interosseous Membrane).— This is a strong membrane which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the leg, and greatly extends the surface for the origin of muscles. It is attached on the one hand to the interosseous border of the tibia, and on the other to the interosseous border of the fibula. It is composed of strong oblique fibres, which take a direction distally and laterally from the tibia to the fibula. An oval opening in its proximal part, immediately distal to the lateral condyle of the tibia, is present for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels, whilst a small aperture, a short distance above the ankle-joint, marks the point where the membrane is pierced by the ramus perforans of the peroneal artery. Articulatio Tibiofibularis (O.T. Superior Tibio-fibular Joint). —At this joint the bones are held in apposition by a capsule which is strengthened anteriorly and posteriorly. The fibres of the anterior and posterior strengthening bands pass distally and laterally from the lateral condyle of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The posterior band is the weaker of the two, and the tendon of the popliteus with its synovial investment rests upon its upper part. This investment is a prolongation from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and in some cases it will be found to be directly continuous with the synovial membrane of the capsule of the tibio-fibular joint. The relation of the tendon of the biceps femoris to this joint must not be lost sight of. Attached for the most part to the head of the fibula, its fibres stretch over the front of the joint. Some of its tendinous fibres also obtain insertion into the lateral condyle of-the tibia. Firm support is in this way contributed to the tibio-fibular joint.