69 FRONT OF THE ARM basilic vein, and a short distance in front of the medial cutaneous nerve of the arm. It at once divides into a volar and an ulnar branch. The volar brarich runs down- wards behind (but sometimes in front of) the median basilic vein, and it is distributed to the skin over the medial and volar aspect of the forearm. The ulnar branch, inclining medially, proceeds distally in front of the medial epicon- dyle of the humerus, to reach the skin on the medial and dorsal aspect of the forearm. A small twig is frequently given by the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm to the skin over the biceps muscle. This pierces the deep fascia close to the axilla. Venae Superficiales (Superficial Veins).—The superficial veins of the anterior aspect of the arm and the volar aspect of the forearm may now be cleaned; but in all proba- bility they are already for the most part exposed. At least three veins are usually seen ascending along the volar aspect of the forearm, the basilic vein along the medial border, the cephalic vein along the lateral border, and, midway between the two former, the median vein of the forearm. When the median vein reaches the depression in front of the elbow it is joined by a short wide vein which pierces the deep fascia of the forearm and establishes an anastomosis between the deep and the superficial veins of the forearm. This connecting trunk is called the profunda vein. After receiving this tributary the median vein of the forearm divides into two branches which diverge from each other like the limbs of the letter V. The lateral of the two branches is the median cephalic vein, the medial branch is the median basilic vein. The media?i cephalic vein passes obliquely, proximally and laterally, across the front of the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm, and joins the cephalic vein. After it has received the median cephalic vein, the cephalic vein ascends along the lateral bicipital sulcus, continues proxi- mally in the groove between the deltoid and the pectoralis major, crosses the deltopectoral triangle, dips beneath the clavicular part of the pectoralis major crossing in front of the pectoralis minor, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane and terminates in the axillary vein. The median basilic vein is a short wide vessel which passes proximally and medially towards the medial epicondyle. It is larger than the median cephalic vein and has a less oblique I