175 THE THIGH go for the most part to the scrotum, but some are distributed to the skin on the proximal and medial parts of the thigh. Nervus Lumboinguinalis (O.T. Crural branch of Genito- crural) pierces the fascia lata a little way distal to the inguinal ligament, and to the lateral side of the femoral artery. With a little care a communication between this nerve and the intermediate cutaneous may be made out. It supplies a limited area of skin on the proximal part of the anterior aspect of the thigh. N. Femoris Lateralis (O.T. External Cutaneous).—The lateral aitaneoiis nerve of the thigh is distributed on the lateral area of the thigh. It pierces the fascia lata in two parts. Of these, one—the posterior division—appears about two inches distal to the anterior superior iliac spine, and proceeds dorsally and distally; some twigs of it may be followed to the lower part of the glutseal region. The anterior division comes to the surface about two inches distally. It is the larger of the two, and has a wide area of distribution. It may extend to the knee-joint. Previous to its division the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh lies in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata, which descends vertically from the anterior superior spine of the ilium. This must be split up to expose the nerve. The intermediate and medial cutaneous nerves'belong to the “rami cutanei anteriores of the n. femoralis,” but for convenience and for the purposes of more precise description, they are defined by special names. The intermediate cutaneous tierve (O.T. middle cutaneous nerve) of the thigh, a branch of the femoral nerve, pierces the fascia lata in the middle line of the thigh about three or four inches distal to the inguinal ligament. It usually appears as two branches which perforate the fascia at two points a short distance apart from each other. Both branches extend distally to the knee, which they reach on its medial aspect. The medial cutaneous nerve (O.T. internal cutaneous nerve) ' of the thigh, a branch of the femoral nerve, following the ' example of the n. cutaneus femoris lateralis and the inter- i mediate cutaneous nerve, divides into two portions—an I anterior and a posterior—which perforate the deep fascia r on the medial aspect of the thigh, and at some distance k apart from each other. The anterior division makes its appear- !»■ ance through the fascia lata in the distal third of the thigh, [r anterior to the great saphenous vein. It descends, towards