BACK OF THE THIGH 249 expanded insertion of the sartorius. A bursa mucosa lies between the three tendons and the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. M. Semimembranosus.—The semimembranosus muscle arises from the lateral impression on the proximal part of the tuberosity of the ischium (Fig. 74, p. 200). The tendon of origin is broad at its attachment to the bone, and narrows as it passes medially beneath the origin of the biceps femoris; it then expands again, and, passing distally and medially anterior to the semitendinosus, is folded in such a manner as to form a groove, in which the latter muscle lies. The tendon of insertion is chiefly inserted into the groove on the back of the medial condyle of the tibia, under cover of the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. Three additional attachments, however, require to be noted. These are effected by aponeurotic extensions from the tendon of in- sertion—(i) to the back of the knee-joint, forming a consider- able part of the oblique popliteal ligament; (2) to the surface of the popliteus muscle, which is covered by the expansion ; and (3) to the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. Nenrus IscMadicus (O.T. Great Sciatic Nerve).—This large nerve commences at the distal border of the great sciatic foramen, and usually terminates about the middle of the thigh by dividing into the tibial nerve and common peroneal nerve. Its relations in the glutaeal region have already been studied. In the thigh it lies on the posterior surface of the adductor magnus muscle, and is covered by the long head of the biceps femoris. It gives branches to both heads of the biceps, to the semitendinosus, to the semimembranosus, and to the adductor magnus; the branches to the two last- named muscles arise by a common trunk. In a few cases it may be observed to give off a long articular twig, which enters the fossa poplitea and takes the place of the lateral superior articular nerve which, as a rule, comes from the common peroneal nerve. Dissection.—To bring the adductor magnus more fully into view, and to facilitate the cleaning of its posterior surface, and at the same time to follow the terminal parts of the perforating arteries, the hamstring muscles should be detached from their origins and thrown distally. First detach the. common tendon of the biceps femoris and semitendinosus from the tuber ischiadicum. When this has been done the exact attachment of the semimembranosus is displayed, and after this muscle has been again examined, under the present more advantageous circumstances, it also