ABDOMINAL WALL 399 posterior wall or lamella is formed by the fusion of the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique with the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis (Fig. 148). Superiorly, the rectus muscle rests directly upon the costal cartilages, and the sheath is merely represented by the apo- neurosis of the external oblique, which covers the muscle anteriorly. Inferiorly, the posterior wall of the sheath is also absent, and the rectus rests on the transversalis fascia. Here, however, the anterior wall is formed by a blending of all three aponeuroses (Fig. 150). The lower free margin of the posterior lamella of the sheath can be easily defined by raising the rectus and working with the handle of the knife. It frequently presents a sharp lunated edge, the concavity of which is directed downwards to the pubes. It is called the linea semicircularis (O.T. semihmar fold of Douglas). The inferior epigastric artery will be External oblique Internal oblique Transversus abdominis Fascia transversalis Fig. 150.—Transverse section through the Abdominal Wall a short distance above the Pubes. observed to enter the sheath by passing upwards in front of this free border (Fig. 149). The linea semicircularis of Douglas is often rendered in- distinct by the presence of scattered tendinous bundles crossing behind the lower part of the rectus. Linea Alba.—The linea alba can now be studied to the best advantage. It is a dense fibrous cord or band which extends perpendicularly between the xiphoid process and the symphysis pubis. It is formed by the union and decussa- tion of the fibres composing the aponeuroses of the two oblique muscles and the transverse muscles of opposite sides. Above the umbilicus it is broad and band-like; whilst below this point it becomes narrow and linear. A close examination will show that it is pierced by several small round openings, for the transmission of blood-vessels, and from some of these the dissector may even observe minute fatty masses protruding. A little below its middle is the umbilicus, but the foramen, of which this is the remains, is now completely closed;