ARTICULATIONS 339 possible. It is here that the movements of inversion and eversion of the foot chiefly take place. The first and the fifth metatarsal bones enjoy a considerable degree of mobility. The second metatarsal is so tightly grasped by the medial and lateral cuneiform bones, and so firmly bound to the tarsus by its basal ligaments, that only a slight degree of movement is possible. At the metatarso-phalangeal joints, flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction are allowed ; whilst the digital joints only permit of flexion and extension. In the erect posture the parts of the foot which are chiefly concerned in transmitting the weight of the body to the ground are the heel, the head of the first metatarsal bone, and the shaft of the fifth metatarsal bone. Rather more than the middle third of the medial border of the foot is raised above the ground. The lateral border of the foot is more or less in contact with the ground in its entire extent, whilst the tips of the toes rest lightly on the ground. In walking—(i) the heel is brought down ; (2) the sole and toes follow ; (3) the heel is raised, and the weight of the body is transferred to the heads of the metatarsal bones and the toes. In the second and third parts of this operation the arches of the foot are flattened to a certain extent, but more especially in the third part of the process is the transverse arch spread out. Great elasticity is thus given to the step. The muscles which are chiefly concerned in producing eversion of the foot are the three peroneal muscles ; those which operate as invertors of the foot are the tibialis anterior and the tibialis posterior. The extensors of the toes are the extensor hallucis longus, the extensor digitorum brevis, and the extensor digitorum longus. The lumbrical muscles, and the interosseous muscles, through their insertions into the extensor tendons of the four outer toes, operate as extensors of the second and third phalanges. The flexors of the p'oximal phalanges are the lumbricales, interossei, flexor hallucis brevis, and flexor digit! quinti brevis. The flexor of the second phalanges is the flexor digitorum brevis ; whilst the flexors of the distal phalanges are the flexor digitorum longus, the quadratus plantaj and the flexor hallucis longus. Abduction and adduction of the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal joints are produced by the interosseous muscles, the abductor hallucis, the adductor hallucis obliquus, the transverse head of the adductor hallucis, and the abductor digiti quinti. The movements of abduction and adduc- tion take place with reference to a line drawn through the second toe.