426 ABDOMEN enlarged form of which it in reality is, and pass medially in front of the ring, and then descend along its medial margin. In this case, the ring is surrounded on all sides, except posteriorly, by important vessels. (2) It may pass downwards and backwards across the femoral ring. (3) It may run downwards between the ring and the external iliac vein (vide p. 185). Medial to the femoral sheath the pa.ssage of a hernial protrusion behind the inguinal ligament is effectually prevented by the lacunar ligament. Femoral hernia is more common in females, and inguinal hernia in males ; and for the very evident reason that, in the female, the crural canal is relatively larger, whilst in the male the passage of the spermatic cord weakens the inguinal region more than the passage of the small round ligament of the uterus in the female. Umbilical Hernia.—If the dissector examines the umbilicus he will find that he is dealing with a dense fibrous ring which embraces and fuses with the remains of the umbilical vein, the remains of the obliterated parts of the umbilical arteries and the urachus, the whole forming a ciense nodule of fibrous tissue closely connected with the superjacent skin. The umbilicus marks the position where, during a large part of intra-uterine life, the peritoneal cavity was prolonged through the abdominal wall into the root of the umbilical cord which attached the foetus to the mother. For a considerable time a portion of the gut lies in the extra-abdominal sac in the root of the umbilical cord, but, before birth, it is withdrawn into the abdomen and the sac shrinks and disappears. If a remnant of the sac persists in the substance of the abdominal wall, after birth, the wall is weakened and a portion of the abdominal contents may be forced into the diverticulum, causing its distension and producing an umbilical hernia. The anatomical coverings from within outwards would be—(i) peritoneum, (2) aponeurosis of the abdominal wall equivalent to the stretched linea alba, (3) superficial fascia, (4) skin. If the foetal condition persists until birth a portion of the gut lies in the umbilical cord, separating the three vessels ; and more than one case has occurred in which the bowel has been cut when the cord was divided after the birth of the child. ABDOMINAL CAVITY. When he has completed his examination of the regions where hernia most commonly occurs the dissector should proceed to study the abdominal cavity and its contents. The abdomen must be more completely opened by an incision carried upwards, from the umbilicus to the xiphoid process, immediately to the left side of the median plane. On throwing the two flaps thus formed upwards and laterally, over the lower margin of the thorax, a strong fibrous cord, the ligatnenium teres, will be seen extending from the umbilicus to the under surface of the liver. It is the remains of the left umbilical vein of the foetus. As it ascends, towards the liver, it gradually recedes from the