251 BACK OF THE THIGH chain of anastomosis is carried distally by the medial and lateral circumflex arteries anastomosing with the first per- forating artery, and by anastomoses between the perforating arteries. The chain is completed distally by anastomoses between the most distal perforating arteries and the muscular branches given from the popliteal artery to the hamstring muscles. Dissection.—At the end of the fifth clay after the subject has been placed upon its face, the dissector must paint the various parts in the glutmal and thigh regions with the preservative solution, replace them in position, and fix the skin flaps over them with a few points of suture. On the morning of the following day he will find the body replaced upon its back, with the pelvis and thorax supported by blocks, and he must at once proceed to study any part of the medial region of the thigh previously left undissected, and to the examination of the hip-joint. Articulatio Coxae (Hip-joint).—The hip-joint is the most perfect example of an enarthrosis or ball-and-socket joint in the body. It does not allow so free a range of movement as that which takes place at the shoulder-joint, but what it loses in this respect it gains in strength and stability. Its great strength and security depend (i) upon the depth of the acetabulum and the thorough manner in which the head of the femur is received into it; (2) upon the tension and power of the ligaments; (3) upon the length and oblique direction of the neck of the femur; and (4) upon atmospheric pressure. The ligaments in connection with the hip-joint are :— 1. Capsula articularis. 3. Labrum glenoidale. 2. Ligamentum teres. 4. Lig. transversum acetabuli. The capsular ligament and the ligamentum teres are attached to both bones entering into the consirruction of the joint. The transverse ligament and the labrum glenoidale are connected with the innominate bone only; the former partially fills incisura acetabuli, whilst the latter surrounds the circumference of the acetabulum in a ring-like fashion, and serves to still further deepen it. Capsula Articularis (Capsular Ligament).—'I’his is exceed- ingly strong, and surrounds the joint on all sides. Proximaily, it is attached around the acetabulum ; above and posteriorly directly to the hip bone, just beyond the rim of the cavity; anteriorly, to the superficial aspect of the labrum glenoidale; and below, to the transverse ligament. Distally