ABDOMEN 508 fibres undergo a marked increase in number, and at the duodeno-pyloric constriction they are aggregated together into a thick circular ring, called the pyloric sphincteric ring, Fig. 196. The fibrcz obliqua, or fibres, of the internal layer are oblique fibres which give a partial covering to the stomach. They are continuous with the deeper circular fibres of the gullet, and are best seen immediately to the left of the cardiac opening. From this they spread out in a series of loops which embrace the oesophageal opening and proceed obliquely to the right over both surfaces of the viscus. As these muscular loops are traced towards the fundus, they are found to gradually assume the form of a complete coating of circular fibres for this part of the organ (Birmingham). The submucous coat is composed of lax areolar tissue. It intervenes between the muscular and mucous tunics, binding them loosely to each other and in such a manner that the mucous membrane can glide freely upon the deep surface of the muscular coat. The 771UCOUS coat must be studied from the inside of the stomach. Open up the viscus by running the scissors along the lesser curvature. The gastric mucous membrane will now be seen to be thick, soft, and pulpy. In the dissecting- room the student cannot obtain a proper idea of its natural colour. In infancy it is rosy red, but as life advances it gradually becomes paler, and in old age it presents a brownish hue from the presence of pigment. When the mucous membrane is cleansed and examined with a pocket-lens, its surface is observed to present a pitted appearance. In- numerable polygonal depressions are brought into view, and these are observed to be larger and better marked near the pylorus than in the vicinity of the fundus. At the bottom of these pits are the mouths of the minute tubular glands of the gastric mucous membrane. The mucous membrane has little elasticity, and, con- sequently, when the stomach contracts and becomes empty the membrane is thrown into projecting folds or rugje which for the most part run in the longitudinal direction and occupy the cavity of the organ. As the stomach expands these folds open out and finally disappear when complete distension is attained. Disseciio/i.—Extend the incision already made into the second part of the duodenum upwards into the first part, to within a short distance of the