5o6 ABDOMEN lobe of the liver. The left branch runs to the left along the porta, crosses the fossa for the umbilical vein, and enters the left lobe of the liver. As it crosses the umbilical fossa it is joined, anteriorly, by the ligamentum teres and some small para-umbilical veins, and posteriorly by the ligamentum venosum. In addition to its two main tributaries, the superior mesenteric and the splenic veins, the vena portfe receives the coronary vein of the stomach and the right gastric vein. Occasionally the inferior mesenteric vein joins its commencement instead of opening into the splenic vein. The cystic vein, as already stated, opens into its right branch. The small para-umbilical veins, which join the left branch, run along the ligamentum teres of the liver, and communicate, at the umbilicus, with the superficial veins of the abdominal wall. Vena Lienalis (Splenic Vein).—The splenic vein com- mences by the union of a number of tributaries which issue from the hilus on the gastric surface of the spleen. It runs backwards through the lieno-renal ligament, and then passes to the right to its union with the superior mesenteric vein between the neck and head of the pancreas. As it runs from left to right it lies behind the upper part of the posterior surface of the pancreas and in front of the left kidney, the left suprarenal gland, and the abdominal aorta, crossing the latter between the origins of its cceliac and the superior mesenteric branches. It conveys blood not only from the spleen, but also from the stomach and the pancreas. The blood from the stomach is conveyed to it by the left gastro- epiploic and the short gastric veins which join its commenc- ing tributaries, and as it passes along the pancreas it receives tributaries from that gland. Dissection.—Cut through the CESophagus iir.mediately below the diaphragm; detach the stomach from the diaphragm by severing the gastro-phrenic ligament, and from the spleen by cutting through the remains of the lieno-gastric ligament and dividing the short gastric arteries and the left gastro-epiploic artery. Remove the separated jiortion of the stomach and examine its structure. Coats of the Stomach.—The coats of the stomach are five in number, viz. :— 1. Peritoneal, or serous. 4. Submucous. 2. Subserous. 5- Mucous. 3. Muscular.