THE UPPER EXTREMITY 42 the acromion and the upper margin of the spine of the scapula j while the lower thoracic fibres are directed upwards and, at the base of the scapula, end in a flat, triangular tendon, which plays over the smooth surface at the root of the scapular spine, and is inserted into a rough tubercle on the spine of the scapula immediately beyond this (Fig. 24, p. 55). To facilitate the movement of the tendon upon the bone a small bursa mucosa is interposed between them. The trapezius is supplied by the accessory Jierve and by twigs from the third and fourth cervical nerves. It is an elevator and depressor of the shoulders, add an adductor of the scapula. Dissection.—The latissimus dorsi is now to be dissected. It is a difficult muscle to clean, not only on account of the varying direction of its fibres, but also because its upper part is generally very thin, and its upper border ill-defined. Near the spines of the vertebrm its upper portion is overlapped by the trapezius, but in the greater part of its exteni it is subcutaneous. Both layers of fascia should be raised at the same time from its surface, and its fibres may be stretched by raising the arm and folding it under the neck. The origin of the latissimus dorsi in the lumbar region is effected through the medium of the superficial lamina of the lumbar fascia, a dense tendinous aponeurosis, which covers the sacrospinalis in the loins (Fig. 19). Clean this structure thoroughly. The attachment of the muscle to the crest of the ilium, and its slips of origin, from the lower ribs, must be carefully defined ; at the same time, the posterior and lower part of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen should be cleaned, so that its relation to the latissimus dorsi may be studied. As the latissimus dorsi sweeps over the inferior angle of the scapula it receives an accession of fibres from that bone. This fleshy slip may be brought into view, when the muscle is cleaned, by relieving the tension of the muscular fibres, and then turning the upper margin of the muscle laterally. The slip in question is apt to be mistaken for a piece of the teres major muscle upon which it lies. M. Latissimus Dorsi.—The latissimus dorsi is a wide, flat muscle, which covers the back from the level of the sixth thoracic vertebra down to the crest of the ilium (Fig. i 7, p. 39). It arises—(i) from the tips of the spinous processes of the lower six thoracic vertebrte and the supraspinous ligaments in connection with them; (2) from the superficial lamella of the fascia lumborum (Fig. 19); (3) by a thin tendinous origin from a small extent of the lateral lip of the crest of the ilium in front of the fascia lumborum (Fig. 143, p. 385); (4) by three or four digitations from the lower three or four ribs; and (5) by a fleshy slip from the dorsal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula (Fig. 24, p. 55). By means of its origin from the posterior lamella of lumbar fascia, it receives an indirect attachment to the spines of the lumbar and upper sacral