THE LEG 273 brevis, and ends on the dorsum of the foot in a gangliform enlargement. Branches proceed from the ganglion for the supply of the extensor digitorum brevis, and the numerous articulations in the neighbourhood. One fine filament can, in most cases, be traced to the second dorsal interosseous muscle. The terminal swelling resembles closely the corre- sponding enlargement in which the dorsal interosseous nerve of the upper extremity ends. The Transverse and Cruciate Ligaments (O.T. Anterior Annular Ligament).—The dissector should again examine these ligaments, and the arrangement of the structures which pass under them. The transverse ligament is attached to the fibula by its lateral end, and to the tibia by its medial extremity. By dividing its fibular attachment, and throwing it medially, it will be seen to give a separate and distinct sheath to the tibialis anterior. The cruciate ligame7tt is the more important of the two. Its attachments have already been noted (p. 261). Examine the manner in which it holds the tendons in position. It consists of two layers, and these, by separating at certain points and becoming reunited at others, form three distinct compartments. Through the tnost medial passes the tendon of the tibialis anterior; through the intertnediate one passes the tendon of the extensor hallucis longus; and through the lateral are transmitted the tendons of the extensor digitorum longus and peronaeus tertius. As the tendons pass through the compartments of the ligaments, and for some distance proximal to the transverse and distal to the cruciate ligament, they are surrounded by mucous sheaths. Lastly, note the position of the anterior tibial vessels and the deep peroneal nerve as they pass under cover of the ligaments. They lie between the extensor hallucis longus and the extensor digitorum longus (Pig. 96). Lateral Crural or Peroneal Region. The peroneal or lateral compartment of the leg should now be opened by dividing, in a longitudinal direction, the fascia which covers it. Enclosed within it are ;— 1. The peronreus longus. 2. The peronaeus brevis. 3. The termination of the common peroneal nerve. 4. The superficial peroneal nerve. VOL. 1—18