522 ABDOMEN I>ossa VencE Caves.—The fossa for the inferior vena cava is a deep groove placed on the right side of the caudate lobe. It ascends almost perpendicularly, and sometimes it is converted into a tunnel by a bridge of liver substance which passes over the vein from the one side to the other. The bare area of the posterior surface of the liver is triangular in form, and lies to the right of the fossa for the vena cava. It forms the greater part of the posterior surface of the right lobe, and is bounded above and below by the lines of reflection of the coronary ligament. For the most part it is convex, and it is connected with the diaphragm by loose areolar tissue, and some minute veins which unite the portal vessels of the liver with the systemic vessels of the diaphragm; but close to the lower end of the fossa for the vena cava there is a well-marked depression imfressio suprarenalis which lodges the right suprarenal gland. Porta Hepatis (O.T. Transverse Fissure).—The porta hepatis or hilus of the liver is the cleft on the posterior part of the lower surface of the right lobe through which the vessels and ducts enter and leave the liver. It lies near the posterior border of the lower surface, between the lower end of the caudate lobe posteriorly and the quadrate lobe anteriorly, extending, transversely, from the upper and posterior end of the fossa for the gall-bladder on the right, to the upper and posterior end of the fossa for the umbilical vein on the left. In the upper part of the lesser omentum, immediately below the porta, the bile-duct, the hepatic artery, and the portal vein are in close relation to each other, the artery lying to the left, the duct to the right, and the portal vein behind and between them. The branches of the three structures enter the porta in the same relative positions, and as they pass into it they become enclosed in a sheath of the fibrous capsule of the liver (Glisson’s capsule). Trace them for a short distance into the substance of the liver and note that the portal vein branches like an artery, and wherever it divides, there also will the hepatic artery and hepatic duct be found to divide. The branches of these three structures, therefore, traverse the liver substance in company, and the fibrous capsule is prolonged into the liver with them, and follows them in their ramifications. The student is now in a position to understand the meaning of the term '•'•portal