ABDOMEN 440 rectum; or that the first loop, instead of lying on the upper surface of the bladder, hangs down into the pelvis close to its left lateral wall. The rectum commences at the termina- tion of the pelvic colon and runs downwards and forwards to end in the anal canal. Only its upper part can be seen at present, the lower part being concealed by the bladder (see Fig. 171). If the subject is a female the uterus will be found occupy- ing the central part of the pelvi.s. It lies between the rectum behind, and the bladder in front, and is connected on each side to the lateral wall of the pelvis by a fold of peritoneum called the broad ligament (see Figs. 171 and 247). The dissector should notice that the caecum presents the appearance of a blind diverticulum surrounded on all sides by peritoneum ; that the transverse colon and the pelvic colon are attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by folds of peritoneum called mesenteries; that the vermiform process is attached to the posterior surface of the mesentery of the ileum by a fold of peritoneum called the meso-appendix or mesetitery of the appendix, and that the remaining parts of the large intestine are not, as a rule, provided with mesenteries, but that they lie against the posterior wall of the abdomen, projecting forwards against the peritoneum which covers them only anteriorly and on either side. After he has familiarised himself with the positions, continuity, and attachments of the various parts of the abdominal portion of the alimentary canal the dissector should proceed to locate the kidneys. Throw the omentum upwards, pull the small intestine downwards and to the right, and examine the concavity of the left colic flexure, where a considerable part of the lower portion of the left kidney can be seen and felt, lying behind the peritoneum. Pull the small intestine over to the left and downwards, examine the con- cavity of the right colic flexure, and note that only a small part of the lower portion of the right kidney can be felt and seen in this situation, behind the peritoneum. Replace the small intestine and the omentum, pull the liver upwards and to the right, and the greater part of the upper portion of the right kidney will be exposed or can be felt in the region immediately above the right colic flexure. Re- place the liver and pass the hand backwards into the posterior part of the left hypochondrium to the back of