ABDOMINAL CAVITY 527 The average length of the kidney is four inches ; its breadth two and a half inches; and its average weight four and a half ounces in the male, but somewhat less in the female. It is a solid organ, very pliable, and of a brownish- red colour. The left kidney is, as a rule, slightly longer and narrower than the right kidney. Form of the Kidney.—This is so characteristic that the term “reniform,” or “kidney-shaped,” has become common in descriptive language. The anterior surface looks laterally and forwards, and presents impressions corresponding to the viscera in contact with it; whilst the posterior surface is directed medially and backwards, and is moulded accurately upon the parts which support it. The extre?nities are round, but the superior end is usually thicker and more massive than the inferior. The lateral border, smooth and convex, is directed backwards and laterally; whilst the medial border is concave, and looks medially and forwards. The true form of the kidneys can only be seen in cases where they have been carefully hardened iti situ. The kidneys present many changes in form, according to the amount and the kind of pressure which is exerted upon them by contiguous viscera. In most cases, however, and on both sides there is on the anterior surface of the organ a point of maximum convexity—a place where the kidney substance is raised in the form of a marked prominence or bulging. Above and below this eminence the anterior surface falls away towards each extremity, in the form of an inclined or sloping plane of greater or less obliquity. These impressed districts indicate pressure exercised on the anterior surface of the kidney in two directions, and the intervening eminence is the result of this pressure and counterpressure. This characteristic is more constant and better marked in the case of the left kidney. Upon the upper inclined plane of the anterior surface of the left kidney are placed the left suprarenal gland, the stomach, the spleen, and the pancreas. These exercise a downward and backward pressure, chiefly through changes in the condition of the stomach. Upon the inferior inclined plane of the left kidney the counterpressure is produced by the intestinal canal, which, as a rule, presses upwards and backwards. Resting upon the upper inclined plane of the rij;ht kidney is the liver, whilst in contact with the lower inclined area is the colon. The colon pre.sses on the kidney in an upward and backward direction. To this pressure the liver oflers a passive resistance, except perhaps in the case of the slight influence which it conveys in a downward direction from the