ABDOMINAL WAI,L 405 from it by transversalis fascia; (3) as the ductus deferens passes from the inguinal canal into the abdominal cavity it hooks round the lateral side of the artery. The branches which spring from the deep epigastric are— 1. External spermatic. 2. Pubic. 3. Cutaneous. 4. Muscular. The external spermatic is a small twig which supplies the cremaster muscle and anastomoses with the internal spermatic artery. The pubic, also insignificant in size, runs medially, along the pubes, and sends downwards an obturator branch which anastomoses with a small branch from the obturator. The importance of this branch arises from the fact that the anastomosis which it establishes sometimes becomes so large as to take the place of the obturator artery. The muscular branches are given to the substance of the rectus, and the cutaneous offsets pierce the abdominal muscles and anastomose with the superficial epigastric artery. Arteria Circumflexa Ilii Profunda (Deep Circumflex Iliac). —This vessel springs from the lateral side of the external iliac artery, about the same level as the deep epigastric, and runs laterally, behind the inguinal ligament, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. From this point onwards it takes the crest of the ilium as its guide, and ends by anastomosing with the ilio-lumbar artery. At first it is placed in the extra- peritoneal fat, and consequently it lies between the fascia trans- versalis and the peritoneum. Its course behind the inguinal ligament is indicated by a whitish line, which marks the union of the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca ; and if the former fascia be now divided along this line the deep circumflex iliac will be exposed. At the crest of the ilium the vessel pierces the fascia transversalis, and lies between this and the trans- versalis muscle ; and lastly, about the middle point of the iliac crest, it pierces the transversalis muscle and its terminal twigs ramify between it and the internal oblique. In this manner, then, the artery gradually approaches the surface as it passes from its origin to its termination. The dissector has already seen the ascending branch which it sends upwards between the internal oblique and transverse muscles. Art. Epigastrica Superior and Art. Musculo-phrenica.—