THE UPPER EXTREMITY 32 N. thoracodorsalis (O.T. Long Subscapular) (from C. vi., vn., VIII.). N. axillaris (O.T. Circumflex) (from C. v., vi.). N. radialis (O.T. Musculospiral) (from C. v., vi., vn., viii. i). In the above table the different spinal nerves from which the fibres of the several branches are derived are indicated. Nervi Thoracales Anteriores (Anterior Thoracic Nerves).— These are the nerves which supply the pectoral muscles. They are two in number, the lateral and the medial. The lateral springs from the lateral cord of the plexus, passes forwards across the lateral side of the first part of the axillary artery, anastomoses in front of the artery with the medial nerve, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and breaks up into branches which end in the pectoralis major. The medial afiterior thoracic nerve is somewhat smaller than its lateral companion. It springs from the medial cord of the plexus, passes forwards between the axillary artery and vein, anasto- moses in front of the artery with the lateral nerve, gives twigs of supply to the pectoralis minor, then pierces that muscle and ends in the pectoralis major which it also supplies. The pectoralis major is, therefore, supplied by both anterior thoracic nerves, the pectoralis minor by the medial nerve alone. Nervi Subscapulares (Subscapular Nerves). — The sub- scapular nerves are also two in number—the upper and the lower. They both spring from the posterior cord of the plexus. After a very short course the upper nerve sinks into the upper and posterior part of the subscapularis which it supplies. The lower subscapular nerve passes downwards and laterally, gives branches to supply the lower part of the subscapularis, then passes through the angle between the subscapular artery and its circumflex scapulae branch and ends in the teres major which it supplies. Nervus Thoracodorsalis (O.T. Long Subscapular Nerve).— This nerve springs from the posterior cord of the plexus, passes obliquely downwards and laterally, through the axilla, and joins the subscapular artery near the lower part of the lateral border of the subscapularis muscle. After crossing in front of the artery it terminates in the latissimus dorsi which it supplies. Nervus Thoracalis Longus (O.T. Posterior Thoracic or External Respiratory Nerve of Bell). — The long thoracic nerve may now be studied in its whole length. It passes