THE UPPER EXTREMITY i 04 One of these is incorporated with the common origin from the medial epicondyle; the other springs from the medial border of the olecranon of the ulna, and likewise by an aponeurotic attachment from the posterior border of the same bone in its proximal two-thirds. Fibres are also derived from the in- vesting fascia and the intermuscular septum on its lateral side. The two heads of origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris bridge across the interval between the medial epicondyle of the humerus and the olecranon, and between them the ulnar nerve is prolonged distally into the forearm. The tendon appears upon the volar border of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone. The flexor carpi ulnaris is supplied by the ulnar nerve. It is a flexor and adductor of the hand and a flexor of the elbow. M. Flexor Digitorum Sublimis.—The flexor sublimis re- ceives this name from its being placed upon the superflcial aspect of the flexor profundus. For the most part it lies deeper than the other superficial muscles (Fig. 41). It is a powerful muscle which arises from the medial epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon, but it also takes origin from the ulnar collateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from the medial margin of the coronoid process of the ulna, the volar surface of the radius (Fig. 43, p. 108), and the fascial intermuscular septa in relation to it. The radial head of origin is a thin fleshy stratum which is attached to the volar border of the radius from its proximal extremity to a variable distance distal to the insertion of the pronator teres muscle. Four tendons issue from the fleshy mass. These enter the palm by passing under cover of the transverse carpal ligament, and go to the four medial digits. Their insertions will be seen later on, but in the meantime note that at the wrist, and for a short distance above it, they are enveloped by the vagina mucosa previously mentioned, and also that as they pass behind the transverse carpal ligament they lie in pairs—the tendons to the ring and middle fingers being placed on the volar aspect of those for the index and little fingers. The flexor digitorum sublimis is supplied by the median net've. Dissection.—The ulnar artery and at the same time the ulnar and median nerves should be followed in their course through the forearm. The artery in the proximal part of its course lies very deeply, but its relations can be fully studied and its branches traced by sini]>ly slitting up the intermuscular septum between the flexor digitorum sublimis and the flexor carpi ulnaris.