ABDOMEN 362 arch to a point about half an inch below the symphysis, where it pierces the superficial layer of the urogenital diaphragm, and immediately ends by, under cover of the crus penis, dividing into two branches—viz. (i) the artery to the corpus cavernosum penis, and (2) the dorsal artery of the penis (Fig. 134, p. 357). Branches of the Internal Pudendal Artery.—The pudendal artery has already been seen to give off the inferiorhcBmorrhoidal, and the permeal arteries, and to divide into its two terminal branches—the dorsal artery of the penis and the artery to the corpus cavertiosum penis. Between the layers of the urogenital diaphragm it gives origin to the artery to the bulb. The artery to the bulb is a short, wide vessel which springs from the pudendal about a quarter of an inch above the level of the base of the urogenital diaphragm. It passes medially, between the two fascise of this diaphragm, and, giving a small twig to the bulbo-urethral gland, it enters the sub- stance of the bulb. It supplies the bulb and corpus cavernosum urethree with blood (Fig. 136). The artery to the corpus' cavernosum pe?iis pierces the medial aspect of the crus penis, and is carried forward in the substance of the corpus cavernosum penis, which it supplies with blood The dorsal artery of the penis runs forward in the interval between the crura penis, and, passing between the two layers of the suspensory ligament of the penis, gains the dorsum of the penis, where it will be afterwards traced (Fig. 222). N. Pndendus (O.T. Pudic Nerve).—The pudendal nerve is a branch of the sacral plexus. Following the internal pudendal artery it enters Alcock’s canal, and, after giving off the inferior hcetnorrhoidal nerve, it divides into two terminal divisions—viz. (i) the perineal nerve, and (2) the dorsal nerve of the penis. The perineal ?ierve has been seen to break up into the following branches:— Cutaneous. Posterior Scrotal. It supplies also one or two branches to the bulb and the corpus cavernosum urethras. (Fig. 136). 5. The nerve to the sphincter urethrte membranacere.