THE UPPER EXTREMITY lO internal mammary artery, may be traced into the mamma; and other vessels, called the external mammary bra^iclies of the lateral thoracic artery, may be seen winding round the edge of the pectoralis major, or piercing its lower fibres, to reach the gland. By means of ly7tiphatic vessels the mamma is brought into connection with the sternal lymph glands, and also, more directly, with the axillary lymph glands. The latter con- nection is one of much importance to the surgeon in cases where it is necessary to remove the organ for malignant disease. In the male the mamma (mamma virilis) is extremely rudimentary. The nipple is small and pointed, and the areola is surrounded by sparse hairs. Deep Fascia.—The deep fascia of the pectoral region is a thin membrane which closely invests the pectoralis major. It is attached above to the clavicle, and medially to the front of the sternum. Below, it is continuous with the deep fascia covering the abdominal muscles, and, at the lower border of the pectoralis major muscle, it is continuous with the axillary fascia. At the deltopectoral triangle a process from its deep surface dips in between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles to join the costo-coracoid membrane, whilst, further laterally, the aponeurosis becomes continuous with the fascia covering the deltoid muscle. The costo- coracoid membrane will be described later on. Fascia Axillaris (Axillary Fascia).—The axillary fascia is a dense felted membrane which extends across the base of the axilla. It is continuous anteriorly with the deep fascia over the pectoralis major, posteriorly with the fascial sheaths of the latissimus dorsi and the teres major muscle, medially with the deep fascia on the surface of the serratus anterior, whilst laterally it is continuous with the deep fascia on the medial surface of the upper part of the arm. It is drawn up towards the hollow of the axilla, and the elevation is due chiefly to the connection of its deep surface with the fascial sheath of the pectoralis minor, and partly to its attachment to the areolar tissue which fills the axillary space. In a well-injected subject a small artery, from the lower part of the axillary trunk, may be seen ramifying on the surface of the fascia. Dissection.—The pectoralis major muscle must now be cleaned, and its