ABDOMINAL CAVITY 543 present they are only seen in a very short part of their course. They proceed laterally upon the bodies of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, behind the gangliated cord of the sym- pathetic, and then disappear under cover of the psoas magnus muscle and the series of fibrous arches from which the muscle arises. The two upper arteries also pass behind the crura of the diaphragm, and on the right side they pass behind by the inferior vena cava. The liifnbar vems join the inferior vena cava, and those of the left side pass behind the aorta. Vena Cava Inferior.—This is the large vein which collects, by means of its tributaries, the venous blood from the lower limbs, the abdominal viscera, and a great part of the abdominal parietes. It is formed in front of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, to the right of the median plane, by the union of the two common iliac veins. As it ascends it lies at first at the right side of the aorta in front of the bodies of the vertebrse and the medial part of the right psoas magnus, but it is separ- ated from the vertebral bodies by the anterior longitudinal ligament and the lower right lumbar arteries, and from the anterior border of the psoas magnus by the right sympathetic cord. Above the lower border of the second lumbar vertebra it is separated from the aorta by the right crus of the diaphragm. The right renal artery, the right coeliac ganglion, the right inferior phrenic artery, the right suprarenal artery, and the medial part of the anterior surface of the right suprarenal gland intervene between it and the crus. At its commence- ment it lies behind the right common iliac artery, then it is crossed by the root of the mesentery and the superior mesenteric vessels. For a short distance above the root of the mesentery it is in direct relation with the peritoneum on the posterior wall of the great sac. At the level of the third lumbar vertebra it is crossed by the third part of the duo- denum and the right internal spermatic or ovarian artery. Next the head of the pancreas and the pancreatico-duodenal arteries are in front of it and the bile-duct descends in front of its lateral border. Above the head of the pancreas it passes behind the first part of the duodenum, from which it is separated by the portal vein, then it ascends behind the epi- ■ ploic foramen, and finally it lies in the vena caval fossa on the posterior surface of the liver and the hepatic veins open into the uppermost part of its anterior surface.