349 MALE PERINEUM Around the anus they anastomose with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and with branches from the middle and superior haemorrhoidal arteries. They likewise send a few twigs round the distal border of the glutseus maximus, in company with the perforating cutaneous nerve, to supply the skin in the distal part of the buttock. Inferior Haemorrhoidal Nerve.—This nerve accompanies the vessels of the same name. It may proceed directly from the sacral plexus, but more frequently it is a branch of the pudendal nerve. It perforates the medial wall of Alcock’s canal, enters the ischio-rectal fossa, and then it breaks up into muscular, cutaneous, and communicating branches. The muscular iivigs supply the external sphincter ani: the cutaneous offsets are given to the skin which surrounds the anus, while the communicating fila7)ients pass forwards to join the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh and the scrotal nerves. Perineal Branch of Fourth Sacral Nerve.—This small nerve enters the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the coccygeus muscle at the side of the coccyx. It is distributed to the skin between the anus and coccyx, and to the external sphincter ani muscle. The perineal artery and the perineal nerve will be found in the anterior angle of the fossa close to the lateral wall. Ano-coccygeal Body.—An indefinite mass of muscular and fibrous tissue which lies between the tip of the coccyx and the anus receives the name of ano-coccygeal body. It is best seen in sections through the pelvis, and it requires notice on account of the support which it gives to the lower part of the rectum and the anal canal. The muscular tissue which enters into its constitution belongs to the levator ani and the external and internal sphincter muscles (Symington). Urogenital Triangle. The superficial fascia in this locality has already been studied. The following is a list of the structures which still require to be examined :— 1. The posterior scrotal vessels and nerves. 2. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. 3. The root of the penis. {The bulb and the crura.