PELVIS 609 the rectum, and the prostatic plexus connected with the prostate. The prostatic plexus proceeds forwards between the prostate and the levator ani, and sends branches, called the cavernous nerves, to the penis. Gangliated Cords of the Sympathetic.—The sympathetic cords reach the pelvis considerably reduced in size.. They pass downwards along the medial margins of the anterior sacral foramina, and they end in the medial plane, in front of the coccyx, in a minute unpaired ganglion, the ganglion impar. There are generally four ganglia on the pelvic portion of each sympathetic cord, and each ganglion is con- nected with one of the sacral nerves by a grey communicating root. The other branches from the ganglia are distributed chiefly to the anterior surface of the sacrum around the middle sacral artery. From the upper ganglia branches proceed to the pelvic plexuses, and from the ganglion impar branches are given to the parts about the coccyx and to the coccygeal body. The Coccygeal Body.—This is a lobulated body, about the size of a small pea, which lies in front of the tip of the coccyx. It is composed of masses of polyhedral cells inter- mingled with strands of connective tissue, numerous sym- pathetic nerve twigs, and branches of the middle sacral artery. Its function is unknown. Dissection.—The viscera should now be removed, and the structure of the walls of the bladder and rectum should be examined. Structure of the Rectum.—The rectum possesses the following coats;—i. Serous. 2. Fascial. 3. Muscular. 4. Submucous. 5. Mucous. The peritoneal serous coat, and the fascial coat derived from the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, have already been examined. Muscular Coat of the Rectum.—This coat is strong, and is composed of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of involuntary or unstriped muscle-fibres. The longi- tudinal fibres are continuous above with the three longitudinal bands of the colon. As these bands pass downwards the fibres which compose them spread out to form a continuous layer round the rectum. The layer is not, however, uniformly thick on all aspects of the gut, for in front and on the back the fibres are massed to form two broad bands, which main- VOL. I—39