48 THE UPPER EXTREMITY from the anterior wall of the thorax and take the extremity to a separate table for further dissection. SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION. In the dissection of this region the following parts must be studied:— 1. Cutaneous nerves of the shoulder. 2. Deep fascia. 3. Deltoid muscle. 4. Sub acromial bursa. 5. Anterior and posterior circumfle.x vessels of the humerus. 6. Axillary (circumflex) nerve. 7. Circumflex scapular artery. 8. Subscapularis muscle. 9. Supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and teres major muscles. 10. Bursce in connection with the shoulder-joint. 11. Suprascapular nerve and transversa colli artery. 12. Acromio-clavicular joint, and the coraco-acromial arch. Muscles inserted into the Clavicle and Scapula.—The insertions of the muscles which have already been divided should first engage the attention of the student. They should be carefully defined and the precise extent of each studied. Begin with the omo - hyoid, which springs from the superior border of the scapula ; then deal in the same way with the levator scapula:, 7-ho/nboidetis t)iinor and major, which are attached to the vertebral border of the bone, and the serraius anterior, which is inserted into the costal aspect of the medial and inferior angles, and the intervening portion of the vertebral border of the scapula. The insertion of the pectoralis minor into the coracoid process, and of the trapezius into both clavicle and scapula, should also be thoroughly ex- amined. When this has been done these divided muscles may be removed, with the exception of about half an inch of each, which it is advisable to leave attached to the bones for future reference. Dissection.—A block should now be placed in the axilla, and the skin removed from the upper and lateral aspects of the shoulder as low down as the insertion of the deltoid. Commence in front and proceed from before backwards, taking care to leave the fatty superficial fascia in its place. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—In the superficial fascia, which is thus laid bare, cutaneous nerves from two different sources must be secured and traced, in order that the area of skin supplied by each may be recognised. They are :— 1. Posterior supraclavicular nerves from the third and fourth cervical nerves. 2. Cutaneous branches from the axillary nerve (circumflex). The posterior supraclavicular nerves have already been observed crossing the lateral third of the clavicle and the insertion of the trapezius under cover of the platysma. They have been divided in removing the limb. If the cut