6o6 ABDOMEN second sacral nerves are very large, and of about equal size; the third is much smaller, and the fourth still smaller. Each of the anterior rami, before it joins the plexus, receives a branch from the nearest sympathetic ganglion, and the third and fourth sacral nerves give white rami communicantes to the sympathetic pelvic plexuses. By the union of the branch of the fourth lumbar nerve with the fifth lumbar nerve, in the abdomen, a lumbosacral trwik is formed. This descends behind the common iliac artery and over the pelvic brim into the pelvic cavity, where it unites with the first sacral nerve, forming a loop through which the superior glutteal artery passes. By the union of the other sacral roots a series of similar loops is formed, and the inferior glutseal artery frequently runs through one or other of these before it leaves the pelvis. Beyond the loops the plexus usually takes the < form of two flattened bands—viz. an upper or sciatic band and a lower or pudendal band. The sciatic ba?id is very large, and consists of the lumbo-sacral trunk with the first sacral nerve and the greater portions of the second and third sacral nerves. It runs downwards and laterally, narrowing and thickening as it descends, and, passing first between the adjacent borders of the piriformis and coccygeus, and then through the great sciatic foramen, it leaves the pelvis and enters the buttock as the sciatic nerve. The. pudendal band is small. It consists of fibres of the ^ second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. It also passes be- tween the adjacent borders of the piriformis and coccygeus muscles, and it is continued from the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen as the pudendal nerve. The student who has already dissected the lower extremity will remember that the sciatic nerve breaks up into common peroneal (ext. popliteal) and tibial (int. popliteal) divisions. It occasionally happens that the two divisions arise separ- ately from the sacral plexus. When this is the case there is no sciatic band, and it becomes evident that the common peroneal nerve is derived from the dorsal divisions of the anterior branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves, and the tibial nerve from the ventral divisions of the anterior branches of the same nerves,- and also from the ventral division of the anterior branch of the third sacral nerve. Moreover, when the common peroneal