141 FOREARM AND HAND with the radial recurrent'. On the medial side of the joint the anterior posterior uhtar recurrent arteries ascend respectively in front of and behind the medial epicondyle, the former anastomoses with the anterior branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery, and the latter with the posterior branch of the same artery and with the superior ulnar collateral artery. In this sketch of the anastomosis around the elbow-joint only the leading inosculations are mentioned. Rich networks of fine vessels are formed over the olecranon and the two epicondyles of the humerus. One very distinct and tolerably constant arch requires special mention. It is formed by a branch which crosses the posterior aspect of the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa, and connects the posterior branch of the profunda brachii artery with the posterior branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery. Nervus Interosseus Dorsalis (O.T. Posterior Interosseous Nerve).—This is the continuation of the profunda terminal branch of the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve. It reaches the dorsum of the forearm by traversing the substance of the supinator, and at the same time winding round the lateral aspect of the body of the radius. It emerges from the supina- tor a short distance proximal to the distal border of the muscle, and is carried distally between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the forearm. Reaching the proximal border of the extensor pollicis longus, it leaves the dorsal interosseous artery, dips anterior to the extensor pollicis longus, and joins the volar interosseous artery on the dorsal aspect of the inter- osseous membrane. It will afterwards be traced to the dorsum of the carpus, where it ends, under cover of the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis, in a gangliform enlargement. The branches which spring from the dorsal interosseous nerve in the forearm are given entirely to muscles. Before the profunda branch pierces the supinator and becomes the dorsal interosseous nerve, it gives branches both to it and to the extensor carpi radialis brevis. After it appears on the dorsum of the forearm as the dorsal interosseous nerve it supplies the extensor digitorum communis, the extensor digiti quinti pro- prius, the extensor carpi ulnaris, the abductor pollicis longus, two extensors of the thumb, and the extensor indicis proprius. It therefore supplies all the muscles on the lateral and dorsal aspects of the forearm, with the exception of the brachio-radialis and the extensor carpi radialis longus, which derive their nerve-