PELVIS 627 The dissector should commence his examination of the fascia by noting that the parietal part is continuous above with the fascia on the psoas muscle. Traced downwards from the psoas it can be followed to the level of a line extending from the lower part of the back of the symphysis to the spine of the ischium, i.e. to the level at which the visceral layer springs from its inner surface. Traced backwards it passes lateral to the hypogastric vessels and then across the front of the sacrum to the opposite side, concealing the sacral plexuses and the piriformis muscles. When it is traced forwards it will be found to terminate, anteriorly, along a curved line which commences at the medial side of the ilio-pectineal eminence, on the medial surface of the superior ramus of the pubis, descends to the lower border of the symphysis pubis, and then ascends to a corre- sponding point on the opposite side. The parietal fascia is deficient, therefore, on the anterior boundary of the lower part of the cave of Retzius. Each half of this anterior border of the parietal fascia is separable into three parts: A lateral part where the fascia blends with the periosteum on the inner surface of the ascending ramus of the pubis; an intermediate part below the highest portion of the obturator foramen, where the fascia turns over the upper border of the obturator internus and runs outwards into the thigh, forming the lower wall of the obturator canal; a median part which is attached to the peri- osteum on the posterior surface of the body of the pubis. Turning next to the visceral layer the dissector will find as he traces it medially, in the posterior part of the pelvis, that the rectum sinks into its substance. In front of the rectum it is carried over the upper part of the vagina on to the uterus, and in front of the uterus it is lost on the bladder. Still more anteriorly it can be followed across the median plane to the opposite side. In this last part of its extent two thickened bands of its substance, one on each side of the median plane, extend from the back of the pubis to the anterior border of the bladder. These bands are the medial pubo-vesical ligaments or anterior true ligaments of the bladder already referred to. The dissector should note that the attachment of the visceral layer to the back of the body of the pubis lies at a higher level than the attachment of the anterior border of the parietal layer. In the space between the two lines of