THE THIGH 179 I—12 a its deep surface processes pass off which penetrate the limb and constitute sheaths for the muscles and other structures which compose it. Three of these, which are especially strong, form distinct septa or partitions which reach the femur and are attached to the linea aspera on its posterior aspect. These partitions are termed the intermuscular septa, and are so dis- posed that they intervene between the three great groups of muscles in this region. The septum intermusculare laterale is placed between the extensor muscles in the anterior area of the thigh and the hamstring muscles in the posterior region; the septum intermuscular mediale intervenes between the extensor muscles and the adductor muscles in the medial region ; whilst the septtwi mtermusculare posterius, weak and in- conspicuous in comparison with the other two, is interposed between the adductor and the hamstring muscles. These partitions will be disclosed in the subsequent dissection. In the meantime, merely observe that the medial and the lateral septa show on the surface of the fascia in the lower part of the thigh as white lines. By means of the three septa the thigh is divided into three osteo-fascial compartments, viz. an anterior, containing the extensor muscles and the femoral nerve; a posterior, holding the hamstrings and the sciatic nerve; and a medial, for the adductors with the obturator nerve (Fig. 67). Bursse Patellares (Patellar Bursae).—Several mucous bursae are situated in the patellar region, those which lie superficially may be investigated now and the more deeply placed bursae should be examined at later stages of the dissection as opportunity occurs. The bursae are—(i) The subcutaneous prepatellar bursa which lies immediately beneath the skin opposite the distal part of the patella. (2) The subfascial prepatellar bursa situated between the fascia lata superficially and the proximal part of the patella and the adjacent part of the tendon of the quadriceps deeply; this bursa may be displayed by an incision made through the fascia lata in the area indicated. (3) The subtendinous prepatellar bursa lying between the superficial fibres of the tendon of the quadriceps and the periosteum of the anterior surface of the patella. (4) The suprapatellar bursa. This lies proximal to the patella, posterior to the tendon of the quadriceps and anterior to the distal part of the anterior surface of the femur; it usually communicates with