52 THE UPPER EXTREMITY other boundaries are the same as those seen from the front. The term triangular space is the name given to another intermuscular interval which becomes apparent when the muscles in this region are cleaned and separated. It is placed nearer the inferior angle of the scapula, and the long head of the triceps intervenes between it and the quadrilateral space. It is bounded above by the subscapularis; below by the teres major; and laterally by the long head of the triceps. The circumflex artery of the scapula should be followed into this space, and cleaned up to the point where it dis- appears around the axillary border of the scapula under cover of the teres minor. Dissection.—Having now traced the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus and the axillary nerve as far as possible, through the quadrilateral space, the position of the limb should be reversed. Turn it so that its dorsal surface is uppermost, and, everting slightly the posterior border of the deltoid, define the boundaries of the space as they are seen from behind. At the same time clean the circumflex vessels and the axillary nerve as they issue from the space to reach the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. Care must be taken not to injure the branch which the axillary nerve gives to the teres minor. The deltoid muscle may now be divided close to its origin and thrown downwards ; in doing this preserve the acromial branch of the thoraco- acromial artery which runs in the line of incision beneath the deltoid. A large bursa which lies between the deltoid and upper aspect of the capsule of the shoulder-joint must also be kept intact. Parts under cover of the Deltoid.—The deltoid covers the upper part of the humerus, and is wrapped round the shoulder-joint so as to envelop it behind, laterally, and in front. The full rounded appearance of the .shoulder will now be seen to be due to the muscle passing over the expanded proximal end of the humerus. When the head of the bone is displaced the muscle passes more or less vertically downwards from its origin, and the dislocation is recognised by the squareness or flatness of the shoulder. Behind, the deltoid covers the muscles which arise from the dorsal aspect of the scapula as they pass laterally to reach the great tubercle of the humerus ; in front, it covers the upper part of the biceps muscle, and overlaps the coracoid process and the muscles attached to it. In relation also to the deep surface of the deltoid are the circumflex vessels of the humerus and axillary nerve. Bursa Subacromialis (Subacromial Bursa).—This is a large bursal sac which intervenes between the acromion and deltoid above, and the upper aspect of the capsule of the shoulder- joint below. It facilitates the play of the proximal end of the humerus, with its capsule, on the under aspect of the acromion and deltoid. Pinch a portion of it up with the