523 ABDOMINAL CAVITY canal.” It is employed to denote a channel in the liver substance lined by a prolongation of the fibrous capsule, and holding in its interior a branch of the portal vein, a branch of the hepatic artery, and a branch of the hepatic duct. Vessels of the Liver.—Blood enters the liver—(i) by the hepatic artery, (2) by the large portal vein ; whilst it is led away from the liver by the hepatic veins. The hepatic artery is a branch of the coeliac artery. It carries arterial blood for the nourishment of the liver sub- stance and divides into two branches which enter the liver at the extremities of the porta hepatis (p. 462). The portal vein carries venous blood, which it has gathered from the entire length of the abdominal portion of the ali- mentary canal (with the exception of the anal canal of the rectum), from the spleen, pancreas, and gall-bladder. It reaches the under surface of the liver at the right extremity of the porta hepatis, where it divides into its two terminal branches. The terminal part of the portal vein, just before it divides, is slightly expanded, forming the sinus of the portal vein. The right branch is a short wide vessel, which immediately sinks into the liver; the left branch, much longer and considerably smaller, extends to the left along the bottom of the porta hepatis, and at the left extremity of this furrow it crosses the fossa for the umbilical vein and enters the liver substance. As it crosses the fossa for the umbilical vein the coats of the left branch of the portal vein are joined in front by the obliterated umbilical vein, whilst behind it has also attached to it the obliterated ductus venosus. The hepatic veins, which lead the blood out of the liver, have an arrangement altogether different from the vessels which enter at the porta hepatis. They converge towards the fossa for the vena cava, on the posterior surface of the organ, and cannot be said to have any course outside the liver, as they open directly into the vena cava inferior. Their gaping mouths will be found at the upper end of the fossa for the vena cava. Trace these veins for a short distance into the substance of the gland. They are remarkable for the tenuity of their walls, and also for the very small quantity of areolar tissue which separates them from the hepatic sub- stance ; indeed, this is so scarce that it is hardly appreciable to the naked eye. In the case of the smaller veins it is