ABDOMEN 448 structures lying on the posterior wall of the abdomen. The contents of the greater omentum are—(i) a portion of the cavity of the omental bursa which separates the two anterior from the two posterior layers; (2) between the two anterior layers, along the lower border of the stomach, the right and left gastro-epiploic blood vessels and their branches with lymph vessels and small lymph glands ; (3) between the two posterior layers small branches of the middle colic artery which have crossed the surfaces of the transverse colon and are descending into the lower border of the greater omentum where, in very favourable circumstances, they anastomose with descending branches of the gastro-epiploic arteries. Dissection.—Clear away the anterior of the two anterior layers of the greater omentum along the lower border of the stomach and expose the gastro-epiploic arteries. Trace the left artery to the left to the gastro-lienal ligament, and note that it passes forwards to the stomach between the two layers of the ligament. At a later stage it will be followed to the splenic artery from which it springs. Trace the right artery to the right to the point where it springs from the gastro-duodenal artery at the lower border of the first part of the duodenum. Remove the two anterior layers of the greater omentum (see Fig. 170). This part of the dissection is not always easy to accomplish, for not un- commonly the posterior of the two anterior layers is fused with the anterior of the two posterior layers, the lower part of the cavity of the omental bursa being obliterated ; but if the dissector commences near the left end of the lower border of the stomach he will usually find the cavity persistent. First he should pull the lower border of the stomach forwards and cut through the two anterior layers of the omentum below the left gastro-epiploic artery ; next he should introduce his fingers through the opening and gradually separate the two anterior from the two posterior layers, then he must enlarge the opening and after separating the anterior from the posterior layers as far as possible he must cut away the anterior layers. After this portion of the dissection is completed he must introduce one hand into the cavity of the omental bursa and he will find that he can pass it upwards behind the stomach and behind the posterior surface of the lesser omentum to the liver. If now he turns his fingers to the right he will be able to pass them behind the portal vein and through the epiploic foramen (Winslow) into the great sac. He should note as he passes his hand upwards that the cavity of the small sac is constricted, between the oesophagus above and to the right and the pylorus below and to the left, by two folds of peritoneum which pass forwards from the posterior wall of the abdomen to the oesophagus and the pylorus respectively. He will find, at a later stage of the dissection, that these folds are connected with the peritoneum on tlie anterior surface of the pancreas ; they are therefore called the left and right pancreatico-gastric folds. The left is produced by the left gastric artery as it passes round the left border of the sac to gain entrance into the lesser omentum, and the right is produced by the hepatic artery as it turns round the right margin of the sac at the lower border of the epiploic foramen (Winslow). Next remove the posterior layer of the lesser omentum and so open into the upper part of the omental bursa, but take care not to injure the contents