PELVIS 6I3 1—39 h together by the following articulations:—(i) Sacro-coccygeal; (2) Coccygeal; (3) Sacro-iliac; (4) Pubic. Dissection.—The nerves and blood-vessels of the pelvis, and all ad- hering p)ortions of muscle, must now be removed from the innominate bone and from the front and back of the sacrum. When this is done the pelvis should be soaked for some time in warm water. By this proceeding the dissection of the ligaments will be rendered much easier. Lumbo-sacral Articulations. — The last lumbar vertebra is joined to the sacrum by one synchondrosis., which connects the body of the vertebra to the base of the sacrum, and by two diarthrodial foints, between the two pairs of articular processes. Capsulce Articulares (^Capsular ligaments) surround the articulations formed by the apposition of the articular pro- cesses. Ligamentum Longitudmale Anterius (O.T. Anterior Cotnmon Ligament).—The anterior longitudinal ligament of the vertebral column is continued downwards, over the anterior aspect of the body of the last lumbar vertebra, to the anterior aspect of the first segment of the sacrum. In a similar manner the ligamentum longitudinale posterius is prolonged downwards, within the spinal canal, over the posterior aspect of the body of the last lumbar vertebra, to the upper part of that portion of the sacrum which forms the anterior wall of the sacral canal. Ligamenta Flava (O.T. Ligamenta Suhflavci) are also present. These are two short bands of yellow elastic tissue placed one on each side of the medial plane. Superiorly they are attached to the anterior aspect of the lower borders of the laminae of the last lumbar vertebra; whilst inferiorly they are fixed to the posterior aspect of the upper margins of the laminae of the first sacral segment. Ligamentum Lnterspinale. — An interspinous ligament connects the lower border of the spinous process of the last lumbar vertebra with the upper border of the spinous process of the first sacral vertebra. A ligametitum supraspinale passes between the extremities of the same spinous processes. So far, then, the ligaments of the lumbo-sacral articulations are identical with those which, above the level of the sacrum, bind the several segments of the spinal column together. Two additional ligaments, viz. the lumbo-sacral and the ilio- lumbar, must now be examined.