3T AXILLARY SPACE and the transverse scapular artery and vein are in front of it; and the third part of the subclavian artery is anterior to its lowest trunk. The scalenus medius is still behind it. In the axilla it has in front of it the integument, the fascia, the platysma, the pectoralis major, the pectoralis minor, the costo-coracoid membrane, the ’^cephalic vein, and the axillary artery; behind it lie the upper serration of the serratus anterior, the fascia-filled interval between the medial and posterior walls of the axilla, and the subscapularis muscle. The branches from the roots of the plexus are: (i) Branches to the scalenus anterior, the longus colli, the scalenus medius, and the scalenus posterior (from,C. v., vi., VII., VIII.). (2) A communication to the phrenic nerve (from C. V., or v. and vi.). (3) The dorsalis scapulie nerve which supplies the rhomboid muscles (from C. v.). (4) The long thoracic nerve which supplies the serratus anterior (from C. V., VI., VII.). The branches from the trunks of the plexus are : (i) The nerve to the subclavius from the upper trunk (from C. v., vi.). It has already been seen piercing the posterior surface of the costo-coracoid membrane and entering the posterior aspect of the subclavius (p. 27). (2) The suprascapular nerve from the upper trunk (from C. v., vi.). It will be found crossing the lower part of the posterior triangle deep to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and disappearing through the suprascapular notch on its way to the dorsum scapulae. The branches from the cords are— From the lateral cord : Nervus thoracalis anterior lateralis (O.T. External Anterior Thoracic) (from C. v., vi., vii.). N. musculocutaneus (from C. v., vi., vir.). N. medianus, caput lateralis (O.T. Outer Head of Median) (from C. V., VI., VII.). From the medial cord : N. thoracalis anterior medialis (O.T. Internal Anterior Thoracic) (from C. VIII., D. i.). N. cutaneus antibrachii medialis (O.T. Internal Cutaneous) (from C. VIII., D. I.). N. cutaneus brachii medialis (O.T. Lesser Internal Cutaneous) (from D. I.). N. medianus, caput medialis (O.T. Inner Head of Median) (from C. VIII., I). I.). N. ulnaris (from C. viii., D. i.). From the posterior cord : Nn. subscapulares (O.T. Upper and Lower) (from C. v., vi.).