398 ABDOMEN rectus. After supplying it with twigs, they come forward from its substance as the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. M. Rectus Abdominis (Rectus Muscle). — This is a broad band of muscular fibres which stretches between the thorax and the pubes, on each side of the linea alba. Inferiorly it arises by two heads; of these, the lateral and larger is attached to the pubic crest, whilst the medial and smaller is fixed to the ligaments in front of the symphysis pubis (Fig. 74, p. 200). Towards the thorax the muscle widens and becomes thinner, and its insertion is effected by three large slips into the anterior aspect of the costal cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. The rectus muscle is broken up into portions by irregular tendinous intersections—-the inscriptiones tendmecc or linecB trans- verscB. These are usually three in number, and are placed, one at the level of the umbilicus, another opposite the xiphoid process, and a third midway between. A fourth intersection is sometimes found below the umbilicus. These tendinous intersections are closely adherent to the sheath of the rectus in front, they have no attachment to the sheath behind, a fact which can be demonstrated by raising the muscle. M. Pyramidalis.—This is a small triangular muscle— not always present—which springs from the front of the pubes and the ligaments of the symphysis, and is inserted into the linea alba. It lies anterior to the lower part of the rectus, and is supposed to act as a tensor of the linea alba. The nerve of supply to the pyramidalis comes from the last thoracic nerve. To bring it into view the muscle must be carefully detached from the linea alba and turned downwards towards the pubes. The nerve will be exposed entering its deep surface. Vagina Recti Abdominis (Sheath of the Rectus).—The dissector is now in a position to study the manner in which the sheath of the rectus is formed. An examination of the relations which the aponeuroses of the three flat muscles of the abdomen bear to the rectus will show that the sheath is incomplete, in so far as the rectus is concerned. It is deficient poste7-iorly, both above and below. From the lower margin of the thorax to a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes it encloses the rectus upon all sides. Here the a7iterior wall or la77iella is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique fused with the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, whilst the