ABDOMEN 374 genital diaphragm about half an inch below the symphysis pubis, and a little way lateral to the middle line. Urogenital Diaphragm (O.T. Triangular Ligament).—A good view is now obtained of the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. Owing to the greater width of the pubic arch, it is a more extensive membrane than in the male (see Fig. 140). It does not possess the same strength, however, and is not so perfect, seeing that it is pierced by the vaginal canal. In the middle line it is pierced, fully an inch below the symphysis pubis, by the urethra, and immediately below the urethral opening by the wide vagina. Its base is perforated by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, whilst on each side the internal pudendal artery and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris pierce it about half an inch below the symphysis. The dorsal vein of the clitoris passes backwards through an oval opening between its upper border, the so-called trans- verse ligament of the pelvis, and the arcuate ligament of the pubis. As in the male, the urogenital diaphragm consists of the deep transverse muscles of the perineum and the sphincter urethrae membranaceae, enclosed between a superficial and a deep layer of fascia. Between the two fasciae lie portions of the urethra, and the vagina and parts of the internal pudendal vessels and the dorsal nerves of the clitoris. The two fascial layers are fused, as in the male, a short distance below the arcuate ligament of the pubes, where their united margins form the transverse ligament of the pelvis and again, posteriorly, at the base of the diaphragm. Dissection.—-The inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm should be reflected upon one side. Detach it from the margin of the pubic arch and throw it medially. The structures between the two layers may now be examined. Urethra Muliebris.—The female urethra is a short canal, which extends from the neck of the bladder to its orifice at the base of the vestibule. It measures about one and a half inches in length, and has an oblique and slightly curved course from above downwards and forwards. The con- cavity of the curve is directed forwards. So close is its relation to the anterior wall of the vagina, that it may almost be said to be embedded in it. At the present stage of the dissection, the urethral canal is covered by the fibres of the sphincter urethrte muscle.