ABDOMEN 59° spherical form or, in some cases, an ovoid form with the large end above (Fig. 236). In the latter case its long axis is no longer horizontal, but oblique, being directed from above downwards and backwards. When the urine is ejected from the bladder, the superior wall descends till it becomes approximated to the infero- lateral walls and the fundus. The viscus, therefore, becomes flattened from above downwards, and comes to lie again entirely within the cavity of the small pelvis. When such a bladder is examined in medial section, in a subject from whom the urine was expelled shortly before death, the w'alls of the bladder are thick and firm, and the lumen of the viscus may be reduced to a mere slit. The part of the lumen which lies behind the internal urethral orifice is called the posterior limb, and the part in front of the orifice, bounded by the approximated superior and infero-lateral walls, is called the anterior limb of the cavity. • The anterior limb is long and nearly horizontal. The posterior limb is short and sometimes barely recognisable; further, it is oblique or vertical, and joins the anterior limb at an angle. Viewed in medial section, therefore, the lumen of the perfectly empty bladder usually forms two limbs of a Y, the stem being the urethra. In other cases the empty bladder is firm and rounded, and when divided in the medial plane its cavity is seen to present only the one limb or slit which is directly continuous with the urethra. Eelation of the Peritoneum to the Bladder.—In the empty bladder only the superior surface is directly covered by peritoneum. The membrane is ..separated from the upper part of the fundus by the seminal vesicles and the deferent ducts. The infero-lateral surfaces are entirely devoid of peritoneum. When the bladder fills it rises into the hypogastric region, and it is important to note that the peritoneal reflection from the apex is raised along with the organ, and, as a result, a considerable area of the bladder wall, below the ligamentum umbilicale medium [urac/ius) becomes applied directly to the anterior abdominal wall without the intervention of peri- toneum. Consequently, in those cases of retention of urine in which a catheter cannot be passed into the bladder through the urethra, relief can be given, without fear of