ABDOMEN 526 omental bursa, and it forms a portion of the stomach bed. The lower portion of the anterior surface is covered by the pancreas and crossed by the splenic vessels, and is not in relation to the peritoneum. Occasionally the spleen extends so far medially that it lies in relation to the upper part of the anterior surface of the left suprarenal gland, but this con- dition is rare. The posterior stirface is subdivided into two areas, as on the right side, by a curved ridge. The upper area is flat, and applied to the left crus of the diaphragm ; the lower area is hollowed out and is in relation to the kidney, a considerable amount of fat intervening. The student has already observed the abundant nerve supply to the suprarenal glands from the cceliae plexus. Its blood supply is equally rich. No fewer than three arteries enter its substance—viz. the superior, middle, and infe7'ior suprai-enal a7'ieries. When a section is made through the suprarenal gland it is seen to consist of an external firm portion termed the co7-tex, and of a soft pulpy dark-coloured internal substance called the 77iedullary pari. Eenes (Kidneys).—^The kidneys are situated behind the peritoneum, against the posterior wall of the abdomen—one on either side of the vertebral column. They are enveloped by a capsule of loose areolar tissue, the meshes of which are at certain points loaded with soft pliable fat. Clear this away, and be careful to preserve the suprarenal gland, which lies upon the upper end of each kidney. Each kidney is placed opposite the bodies of the last dorsal and the upper three lumbar vertebra. It extends from the upper border of the last dorsal vertebra to the middle of the body of the third lumbar vertebra, and it lies obliquely—its upper end being somewhat nearer the medial plane than its lower end. The kidneys lie for the most part in the hypo- chondriac and epigastric regions. As a rule the left kidney is entirely confined to these districts; but the right kidney, which generally occupies a slightly lower level, crosses the sub- costal plane so that a small portion of its inferior extremity comes to lie in the right lumbar and the adjoining part of the umbilical region. This difference on the two sides is probably due to the great bulk of the right lobe of the liver. The twelfth rib lies behind both kidneys. The right kidney does not, as a rule, extend beyond the upper border of this rib, but the left kidney may reach the lower border of the eleventh rib. The lower end of each organ is separated by a short interval, of varying extent, from the crest of the ilium.