231 GLUT/EAL REGION raised from the bed in which it lies. Its deep surface will be seen to consist of four or five rounded slips separated by deep grooves or furrows. The surface of the small sciatic notch on which this tendon glides is coated with smooth cartilage, which is raised into ridges corresponding to the grooves on the surface of the tendon. A large bursa mucosa is interposed, which still further facilitates the play of the tendon round the notch. The m. quadmtus femoris lies between the gemellus inferior and the adductor magnus. It is a fiat oblong muscle which arises from the lateral border of the tuber ischiadicum, and proceeds horizontally to gain insertion into the quadrate tubercle, and into a line which extends distally from it, on the back of the femur, for two inches (Fig. 78, p. 209). Dissection.—The nerve to the quadratus femoris should now be traced to its termination. This can be done by reflecting the two gemelli muscles anterior to which it runs. When followed as far as the inferior gemellus, care should be taken to secure the little twig it gives to that muscle. Lastly, reflect the quadratus femoris by detaching it from the femur and throwing it towards the ischial tuberosity. By this dissection not only is the whole length of the nerve to the quadratus femoris exposed, but also a consider- able portion of the posterior aspect of the capsule of the hip-joint is laid bare ; further, the obturator externus muscle, the termination of the medial circumflex artery, and the insertion of the ilio-psoas are brought into view. The posterior part of the capsule of the hip-joint which is exposed consists largely of circularly arranged fibres. Nerve to the Quadratus Femoris.—This small nerve runs distally on the hip bone and passes successively anterior to the following structures : the sciatic nerve, the gemellus superior, the tendon of the obturator internus, the gemellus inferior. It gives the nerve of supply to the gemellus inferior and a twig to the hip-joint, and ends by sinking into the deep surface of the quadratus femoris. M. Obturator Externus.—This muscle can now be seen winding round the neck of the femur and finally ending in a rounded tendon which is implanted into the fossa trochan- terica of the femur (Fig. 78, p. 209). Its origin has already been examined. Arteria Circumflexa Femoris Medialis (O.'l'. Internal Cir- cumflex Artery).—This vessel comes to an end at the proximal border of the adductor magnus by dividing into its ascending and transverse terminal branches. The ascending branch runs obliquely proximally and laterally, anterior to the quadratus femoris and upon the posterior surface of the obturator ex-