393 ABDOMINAL WALL these loops descend varies. Some reach the tunica vaginalis of the testicle, and the scrotum should now be opened up, on the right side, in order that they may be traced downwards to this point; the majority of the fibres, however, do not reach so far down, some going no farther than the sub- cutaneous inguinal ring. Upon the posterior aspect of the cord the loops are directed upwards, and some, reaching the os pubis, obtain a tendinous insertion into its tubercle and crest. It will be noticed that the cremasteric fleshy loops do not form a complete investment for the cord and testis. The intervals between the fasciculi are occupied by areolar tissue, and this combination of muscular and areolar tissue is some- times termed the cremasteric fascia. Reflection of Internal Oblique.—On the right side of the body the entire muscle may be reflected, but on the left side preserve the lower portion of it [i.e. that part which is still covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique) in situ. Begin below by dividing the muscular fibres along the crest of the ilium. The depth to which the knife should be carried is indicated by the dense areolar tissue which lie^between the internal oblique and the subjacent transverse muscle. An ascending branch from the deep circumflex iliac artery will also serve as a guide. This vessel emerges from the fibres of the transverse muscle, close to the fore-part of the iliac crest, and is then directed upwards upon its surface. Although this vessel has not attained the dignity of a name, it is a very constant branch. On the right side the fibres springing from the inguinal ligament should also be severed, but on the left side carry the knife horizontally, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the lateral margin of the rectus. Now turn to the upper part of the muscle, and make an incision through it along the lower margin of the thorax, from the lateral border of the rectus to the last rib. Lastly, carry the knife downwards, from the tip of the last rib to the crest of the ilium. The muscle freed in this manner can be thrown medially towards the lateral border of the rectus. In doing this the dissector must proceed with caution, because he has reached the plane of the main trunks of the nerves of the abdominal wall and the arteries which accompany them. These pass medially between the internal oblique and transverse muscle, and, as the former muscle is raised, they are apt to adhere to its deep surface and be cut. In all probability the student will experience considerable difficulty in separating the lowest part of the internal oblique from the corresponding portion of the transversus abdominis. At this level these two muscles are always closely connected, and in .some cases they may be even found to be partially blended. The cremaster nmscle should also be reflected from the spermatic cord. This can best be done by making a longitudinal incision along it. Entering the deep surface of the cremaster is a small branch of the inferior epigastric artery and the external spermatic nerve (a branch of the genitofemoral). These con.stitute its va.scular and nervous supply, and must, if possible, be secured. Now clean the transversus abdominis muscle, and dissect out the vessels and nerves which lie upon it.