ABDOMINAL \VAT,L 415 irr/. seminiferous tubules. Two or more occupy eacli compart- ment, and constitute what is ealled a testicular lobule. In this they are closely packed and are coiled and convoluted to an extraordinary degree. The dissector should now endeavour to unravel some of these tubuli seminiferi under water. It will be impossible to open them out in their whole length, but a sufficiently good demonstration may be obtained to make their general arrange- ment apparent. Each tube averages two feet in length. Approaching the media- stinum testis the tubuli semin- iferi contorti join each other at acute angles and form a smaller number of tubes, which finally become straight and consider- ably reduced in diameter. These are called the tubuli seminiferi recti. They enter the mediastinum and join the rete testis. Fig. 156.—Diagram illustrating the Structure of the Testis. (A. F. Dixon.) Dissection.—The tubuli seminiferi contorti should now be removed from the lower part of the testis. This can be done with the forceps under a stream of water. A good view is then obtained of the fibrous frame- work of the testicle. The strength of the tunica albuginea becomes evident, whilst the mediastinum testis and the septules which proceed from it are seen to great advantage. The clissector must next endeavour to ascertain the manner in which the secretion of the testis pa.sses from the rete testis into the epididymis. For this purpose the upper part of the testis with the attached epididymis must be examined. Gently raise the caput cpididymidis from the surface of the body of the testis by dividing the visceral part of the tunica vaginalis which binds them together, and carefully break down the intervening connective tissue. Under favourable circumstances the dncln/i efferentes may be seen. v.il. Ductus deferens. g.w'. Cauda epididymidis. c. Caput epididymidis. c.v. Coni vasculosi. v.c. Ductuli eflerentia testis. v.r. Tubuli .seminiferi recti. r. v. Rete testis. s. t. Contorted seminiferous tubule, j. Septula testi.s. Structure of the Epididymis.—The ductuli efferentes testis are fifteen to twenty delicate ducts which leave the upper part of the rete testis, jiierce the tunica albuginea, and pass into the caput epididymidis. In the caput the vasa efferentia become coiled and form a series of small conical