THE UPPER EXTREMITY 142 supply directly from the radial nerve (O.T. muscuh-spiraf). The anconaeus also derives its main nerve of supply from the radial, but it also frequently obtains a second twig from 'the dorsal interosseous nerve. Terminal Branch of the Arteria Interossea Volaris.— The terminal or perforating branch of the volar inter- osseous artery is a vessel of some size. It appears through the interosseous membrane, about two inches or so proximal to the distal end of the forearm. Accompanied by the dorsal interosseous nerve it runs distally under cover of the extensor pollicis longus, and ends on the dorsum of the carpus by anastomosing with the dorsal carpal arch and the dorsal interosseous artery. Dorsal Aspect of the Wrist and Hand. Upon the dorsal aspect of the wrist and hand the following structures have still to be examined:— 1. The radial artery and its branches. 2. The dorsal carpal ligament. 3. The extensor tendons of the fingers. Radial Artery.—It is only a small portion of the radial artery that is seen in this dissection. At the distal end of the radius the vessel turns dorsally below the styloid process and upon the radial collateral ligament of the radio-carpal joint. Having gained the dorsal aspect of the carpus, it runs distally upon the navicular and os mult- angulum majus, and finally disappears from view by turning volarwards through the proximal part of the first interosseous space, and between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (Fig. 54, p. 139). In the palm it takes the chief share in the formation of the deep volar arch. While the radial artery rests on the radial collateral carpal ligament, it is deeply placed, and is crossed by the tendons of the abductor pollicis longus and the extensor pollicis brevis. On the carpus it lies nearer the surface, and is crossed obliquely by the extensor pollicis longus. It is accompanied by two vefia comi/es and some fine filaments from the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm which twine around it.