278 INFERIOR EXTREMITY medial side of the leg are—(i) the saphenous nerve; (2) the posterior branch of the medial cutaneous of the thigh ; and (3) the medial calcanean nerves. The guide to the saphenous 7ierve is the great saphenous vein. It may now be exposed in its entire course along the medial side of the leg. The poste7‘ior bra7ich of the 7/iedial cuta7ieous 7ierve of the thigh proceeds distally a short distance posterior to the preceding nerve. It usually ends about the middle of the leg. The medial calcanean 7ierves are branches of the posterior tibial nerve. Dissect for them in the interval between the prominence of the heel and medial malleolus. They pierce the ligamentum laciniatum (O.T. internal annular), nearer the former than the latter, and their branches of distribution to the skin of the heel and sole will be seen in a future dissection. In the i7iiddle line of the leg two nerves will be found, viz. , —(i) the terminal part of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, and (2) the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf. They have both been previously seen in the dissection of the fossa poplitea. The medial cutaneous nerve of the calf, a branch of the tibial nerve, descends in the interval between the two heads of the gastrocnemius and pierces the deep fascia midway between the knee and ankle. A short distance distal to this it is joined by the anastomotic peroneal nerve, and then acquires the name of sural nerve. On the lateral side of the posterior aspect of the leg is the a7iastoniotic peroneal ?ierve, a branch of the common peroneal nerve. It descends upon the lateral head of the gastro- cnemius, and, perforating the deep fascia, unites with the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf a short distance distal to the middle of the leg, to form the sural 7ierve. The latter has already been traced posterior to the lateral malleolus to the lateral margin of the foot and little toe. Deep Fascia.—A continuous view of the deep fascia, on the posterior aspect of the leg, can now be obtained by removing the remains of the superficial fat. Observe how thin and transparent it is in the proximal part of the leg, and how it thickens as it is followed distally towards the heel. At no point, however, is it very dense. As it passes over the interval between the heel and the medial malleolus it forms the liga7/ie/itu/n lacmiatum. It is continuous proximally with the popliteal fascia, and a short distance distal to the knee, on the medial side, it receives a reinforcement of fibres from