262 INFERIOR EXTREMITY defined band, which is fixed firmly to the anterior part of the calcaneus. As it is traced medially it will be seen to divide into two diverging limbs. Of these the proximal is attached to the medial malleolus, whilst the distal passes to the medial margin of the foot, and becomes connected with the plantar aponeurosis. The lig. transversum and the lig. cruciatum cruris are merely portions of the deep fascia which are dis- tinguishable on account of their thickness. The stiperior peroneal retinaculum is a thickened por- tion of the deep fascia which passes from the posterior and distal part of the lateral malleolus to the proximal and posterior part of the lateral surface of the calcaneus. The inferior pero7ieal retinaculum springs from the anterior part of the proximal surface of the calcaneus, where it is con- tinuous with the lateral extremity of the cruciate ligament; its opposite ex- Fig. 95.—Diagrammatic representation of tremity is attached. On the the Fascia of the Leg. The fascia of the lateral border of the foOt, tinitalic r»/DCtf=»rinr ic moria n mnc/>iilof > tibialis posterior is more a muscular aponeurosis than a true fascial septum ; tO the peroneal tubercle but it is convenient for descriptive pur- of the calcaneus and tO poses to regard it as one of the parti- tions. calcaneus distal to the tubercle. The peroneal retinacula bind the tendons of the peronasus longus and brevis to the lateral border of the foot. Intermuscular Septa.—As the deep fascia of the leg passes, posteriorly, over the fibular region, two strong intermuscular septa are given off from its deep surface. These are dis- tinguished as the anterior and posterior peroneal septa. The anterior peroneal septum intervenes between the peroneal muscles and the extensor muscles, and is attached to the anterior border of the fibula. The posterior peroneal septum is interposed between the peroneal muscles and the muscle on the back of the leg, and is attached to the lateral border of the fibula. The leg is thus subdivided into three osteo-