PELVIS 597 embedded. When it is unravelled several blind diverticula will be found to proceed from the main tube. The lower end of the tube, which is called the excretory duct, emerges from the pointed lower end of the vesicle and joins with the ductus deferens, at an acute angle, to form the ejaculatory duct. Ductus Deferens (O.T. Vas Deferens).—The deferent duct, or duct of the testicle, was previously traced to the abdominal inguinal ring (p. 410), through which it enters the abdomen. Separating itself from the other constituents of the spermatic cord, it hooks round the inferior epigastric artery, and descends on the medial side of the external iliac vessels to the pelvis. It then runs backwards, on the side wall of the pelvis, immediately lateral to the peritoneum, through which it is clearly visible, and it crosses, in turn, the umbilical artery, the obturator nerve, the superior vesical artery, and the ureter. Immediately beyond the ureter it turns sharply medially towards the fundus of the bladder, enters the pelvic fascia, comes into relation with the blunt upper end of the seminal vesicle, and runs downwards and medialwards, in close apposi- tion with the upper or medial side of the vesicle, to the base of the bladder. There, lying close to the median plane, and to its fellow of the opposite side, it turns vertically downwards to the base of the prostate. The lower part of the duct is dilated, tortuous, and sacculated, and is termed the ampulla, but its lower end narrows greatly and joins with the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the ejaculatory duct. Triangle on th.e Base of the Bladder.—It is customary to describe a triangle at the base of the bladder, bounded laterally by the deferent ducts, and above by the reflection of the peritoneum at the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation. When the pelvic viscera are hardened in situ, by formalin injection, such a space can hardly be said to exist, owing to the approximation of the ampullae of the deferent ducts, but it is possible that when the bladder is distended the space between the deferent ducts may be increased. Dissection.—The peritoneum has already been lifted up and the extra-peritoneal fat removed to show the visceral branches of the hypo- gastric artery. The pelvic fascia must now be removed and the remaining branches of the hypogastric artery and the accompanying veins must be followed, so far as they lie in the pelvis. Accomjianying the arteries a number of nerve twigs from the pelvic plexuses, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves, should be noticed and preserved. As the dissector approaches the posterior pelvic wall he must pull the rectum forwards, and as he docs this he should note that branches from the sympathetic cord and from the 1—38 6