DISSECTION OF THE BACK 45 the head and neck, as they cross the posterior triangle of the neck. The branches from the cervical plexus come from the third and fourth cervical nerves. On the deep surface of the trapezius they join with branches of the accessory nerve to form the subtrapezialplexus, from which twigs proceed into the substance of the muscle. The terminal twig of the accessory nerve can be traced nearly to the lower margin of the trapezius. The ascending branch of the transverse cervical artery, which accompanies the accessory nerve, must be followed to the anterior border of the trapezius, where it will be seen to spring from the trunk of the artery. Dissection.—The posterior belly of the omo-hyoicl, the transverse scapular artery, and suprascapular nerve can now be displayed by dis- secting towards the upper margin of the scapula, and removing carefully, the loose fatty tissue in this locality. The dissector of the head and neck must take part in this dissection. M. Omo-hyoideus.—Arteria Transversa Scapulse (O.T. Suprascapular Artery) and N. Suprascapularis (Supra- scapular Nerve).—The slender posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle will be seen to arise from the upper border of the scapula immediately medial to the incisura scapulae. It also derives fibres from the ligament which bridges across this notch. It is supplied by a twig from the ansa hypoglossi. The transverse scapular artery will be noticed to enter the supra- spinous fossa of the scapula by passing over the superior transverse scapular ligament, whilst the suprascapular nerve proceeds into the fossa under cover of that ligament. Dissection.—Draw the scapula well over the edge of the block which supports the thorax of the subject. The two rhomboid muscles are thus rendered tense, and the cleaning of their fleshy fasciculi greatly facilitated. The dorsalis scapuhe nerve should Ije secured at this stage, so that it may be preserved from injury in the further dissection of the region. It can best be detected by dissecting in the interval between the rhomboideus minor and the levator scapula; about one inch to the medial side of the medial angle of the scapula (Fig. 17, p. 39). It is accompanied by the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery, and it will afterwards be traced upon the deep surface of the rhomboid muscles when they are reflected. Mm. Rhomboidei.—The two rhomboid muscles constitute a thin quadrangular sheet of muscular fibres, which proceeds from the spinous processes of the vertebrae to the base of the scapula.