ABDOMINAL WALL 417 The integumefii of the pe?iis is remarkable for its great delicacy and elasticity, and the absence of hairs. It has a brownish tint, and is freely movable over the organ. At the glans the skin leaves the body of the penis, and, passing for a variable distance over the glans, is folded back upon itself so as to form the prepuce. The deep layer of the prepuce reaches the penis again behind the corona glandis, and is then reflected forwards over the glans to become continuous with the mucous membrane of the urethra at the meatus urinarius. A slight fold will be observed on the under surface of the glans, extending from the lower angle of the urinary orifice to the prepuce; this is the frenum preputii. Dissection.—Reflect the integument from the surface of the penis by making a longitudinal incision along the middle line of the dorsum. The superficial fascia will then be seen to be composed of a quantity of loose areolar tissue, which is devoid of fat. The suspensory ligament and the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis should now be dissected. The vessels and nerves are covered by the deep fascia of the penis. Suspensory Ligament of the Penis. — The suspensory ligament of the penis is a strong fibro-elastic band of a triangular shape. By its posterior border it is attached to the symphysis pubis. Towards the penis it separates into two lamellae, which join the deep fascia of the body of the organ. Between the two lamellae are placed the dorsal vessels and nerves. Dorsal Vessels and Nerves.—On the dorsum of the penis, in the groove which extends along the middle line of the corporus cavernosum penis, is the deep dorsal vein; on each side of this is the dorsal artery, and superficial and lateral to the artery is the dorsal nerve. On the dorsum of the penis, therefore, we find one vein, tivo arteries, and two nerves. The dorsal vein of the penis begins by several twigs from the glans and prepuce. It extends backwards in the middle line, passes betw'een the two layers of the suspensory ligament, and gains the pelvis by passing under the arcuate ligament. It ends by joining the prostatic (pudendal) plexus of veins. The dorsal arteries are the terminal twigs of the internal pudendal vessels. 'They pass forward between the two layers of the suspen.sory ligament, and, continuing their course, on the dorsum of the penis, they terminate in branches to the glans penis. The dorsal nerves are branches of the pudendal. They VO[„ I—27