ABDOMEN 460 the blood-vessels which lie behind the posterior wall of the upper part of the omental bursa. Remove also the medial layer of the gastro - lienal ligament, and the medial layer of the lieno-renal ligament. The object of this dissection is to display—(i) the anterior surface of the body, the neck, and part of the head of the pancreas ; (2) a part of the anterior surface of the left kidney ; (3) the anterior surface of the left suprarenal gland ; (4) the left coeliac ganglion and the left great splanchnic nerve; (S) the upper part of the abdominal portion of the aorta ; (6) the coeliac artery and its branches, the hepatic, the splenic, and the left gastric artery, and their branches ; (7) the inferior phrenic arteries ; (8) the upper parts of the crura of the diaphragm ; (9) the terminal part of the right vagus nerve. Clean the pancreas first, and do not disturb it from its position. At the upper border of the pancreas, in the median plane and below the caudate lobe of the liver, find the termination of the coeliac artery, dividing into its three terminal branches '; the hepatic running to the right, the splenic to the left along the upper border, or immediately behind the upper border of the pancreas, and the left gastric running upwards and to the left to the junction of the oesophagus with the stomach. Trace the first portion of the hepatic artery, through the right pancreatico-gastric fold, to the right free margin of the omentum, where it has already been exposed, and if possible preserve the sympathetic nerve filaments which surround it. Secure its gastro-duodenal branch, which descends behind the first part of the duodenum and in front of the neck of the pancreas, and trace it to its division into the superior pancreatico-duodenal and the right gastro-efiploic arteries. Trace the latter to the left to the point where the stomach was divided. Trace the splenic artery to the left, to the anterior surface of the left kidney, and then forwards, along the left layer of the lieno-renal ligament, which is still in situ, to the spleen, and note that before it reaches the spleen it gives off a number of small gastric branches, and the left gastro-epiploic artery, which run forwards to the stomach, along the left layer of the gastro-lienal ligament, which is also still in position. Note, further, that the splenic artery breaks up into branches before it reaches the spleen. In many cases the small gastric branches and the left gastro- epiploic artery spring from the terminal branches, and not from Jhe trunk of the splenic artery. Secure also the branches from the splenic artery to the pancreas, and if possible preserve the sympathetic nerve plexus which surrounds the artery. Follow the left gastric artery, through the left pancreatico-gastric fold, to the junction of the oesophagus with the stomach, where the artery gives off its oesophageal branch or branches ; secure also the accompanying vein, the coronary vein of the stomach, and trace it, across the median plane, to its union with the portal vein at the lower end of the right free margin of the lesser omentum. Trace the cceliac ai'tery back- wards to its origin from the front of the aorta, and do not injure the plexus of sympathetic nerve filaments which surrounds it. Immediately to the left of the coeliac artery, and at the upper border of the pancreas, find the left cceliac ganglion, which is connected with the plexus of nerves round the root of the coeliac artery. Follow the ganglion upwards and back- wards to its union with the left great splanchnic nerve. Immediately to the left of the ganglion find the left suprarenal gland, and below it the upper and medial part of the anterior surface of the left kidney. Find the inferior phrenic arteries, one on each side, immediately above the level of the coeliac artery, trace each medially to the aorta, and laterally across the surface of the corresponding crus ; note that the left passes behind the oesophagus ; the right passes behind the inferior vena cava, although this fact cannot be demonstrated until a later period. Clean the posterior surface of the abdominal part of the cosophagus and secure the right vagus