FEMALE PERINEUM 367 and the posterior border of the orifice of the vagina, is a depression, the fossa navicularis. The frenulum pudendi may be absent, and if present it is usually ruptured during the first labour. It may be well for the student to bear in mind that the term “ perineum ” is used by obstetric surgeons in a very restricted sense. It is applied by them to the small region between the anus and the frenulum labiorum pudendi. Clitoris.—The clitoris is the homologue of the penis, and, notwithstanding its diminutive proportions, it presents a close resemblance to the male organ both in appearance and structure. It is a minute elongated projection placed below the anterior commissure, and surmounted by a sensitive rounded tubercle called the glans, but it is not traversed by the urethra. The manner in which its prepuce and frenum are formed has already been described. To obtain a proper view of the clitoris the student must lay hold of the glans with the forceps and draw it out from the prepuce. Vestibule.—The dissector should next take note of a smooth triangular interval which exists between the clitoris and the entrance to the vagina. The term vestibule is given to this area. It is bounded laterally by the labia minora, and towards its lower part or base is seen the orifice of the urethra. The triangular outline of the vestibule is only seen when the labia are forcibly drawn apart from each other. In the natural condition of parts the labia are in close apposition, and the vestibule is then a deep recess which represents the bottom of the pudendal cleft, between the clitoris and the vagina. Urethral Orifice.—This lies close to the opening of the vagina, about one inch below the clitoris. It usually presents the appearance of a vertical slit, and the mucous membrane around it is prominent, pouting, and slightly puckered, so that when the tip of the finger is passed over the vestibular area the opening can readily be distinguished by touch. Vaginal Orifice.—The vaginal opening in the virgin is partially closed by the hymen—formed by two semilunar folds of mucous membrane attached to the sides of the entrance to the vagina, and united together anteriorly and posteriorly. The form of the hymen, however, is very variable. Some- times it is present in the shape of a septum attached around the entire circumference of the vaginal entrance, but