ABDOMEN 39° If. is merely the medial part of the folded-back margin of the inguinal ligament which, in the vicinity of the pubic tubercle, obtains an attachment to bone. The lacunar ligament occupies an oblique plane, its lower or femoral surface looking distally and slightly forwards and laterally, whilst its upper or abdominal surface looks upwards and slightly backwards and medially. It is of importance that the student should note the precise relation which this ligament bears to the spermatic cord. Taken in conjunction with the inguinal ligament and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, it forms a groove in which the cord lies. Ligamentum Inguinale Eeflexum (O.T. Triangular Fascia) (Fig. 145). — The lig. inguinale reflexum is a small triangular piece of fascia which springs from the crest of the pubic bone and the medial end of the pecten pubis. It passes upwards and medially, under cover of the superior crus of the subcutaneous inguinal ring, and passes into the linea alba. If the fibres which compose it are followed through the linea alba, they will be found to be continuous with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the opposite side. It must, therefore, be considered as an additional insertion of this muscle. It is, frequently, so poorly developed that its true relations and connections are demonstrated with difficulty, if indeed they are capable of demonstration at all. Dissection.—The internal oblique muscle should now be cleaned. Towards its lower part it will be seen to be pierced by certain nerves, and these must be preserved. Close to the iliac crest the lateral branches of the ilio-hypogastric and last thoracic nerves will be noticed emerging from the midst of its fleshy fibres, whilst anteriorly it is pierced by the anterior branch of the ilio-hypogastric and by the tlio-inguinal nerve. The former of these appears near the anterior superior iliac spine, and then proceeds medially under cover of the external oblique aponeurosis, which it soon pierces. The ilio-inguinal nerve will be found perforating the internal oblique a short distance medial to the hypogastric nerve and at a lower level. It becomes superficial by passing through the subcutaneous inguinal ring. Care must be taken in defining the lower margin of the muscle to preserve its relations to the spermatic cord, and not to injure the muscular fasciculi which it gives to the cremaster muscle. M. Obliquus Abdominis Internus (Internal Oblique) (Fig. 142).—The internal oblique muscle arises—(i) from the lateral half of the abdominal grooved surface of the inguinal ligament; (2) from the intermediate lip of the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest; (3) from the lumbar fascia.