250 INFERIOR EXTREMITY must be detached from its origin and turned dislally. The posterior surface of the adductor magnus will then be fully exposed, and its attachment to the femur and its relations to the perforating arteries can be studied. Arteriae Perforantes (Perforating Arteries).—Four per- forating arteries, branches of the profunda femoris, will be found emerging from the surface of the adductor magnus muscle close to the linea aspera of the femur. They are called firsts second^ thh-d, and fourth, according to the level at which they appear from above downwards. The fourth is the terminal branch of the profunda, and makes its appearance about an inch proximal to the opening in the adductor magnus muscle through which the popliteal artery enters the fossa poplitea. The perforating arteries and their branches must be thoroughly cleaned, together with the apertures in the adductor magnus through which they pass. It will then be seen that they do not pierce the fleshy substance of the muscle. Prepared for each is a tendinous archway, and they reach the posterior region of the thigh by passing between these and the linea aspera, to which the piers of the various arches are attached. The openings are in the same line with, and are in all respects analogous to the large opening in the adductor magnus muscle for the popliteal artery. The result obtained is the same in each case. When the muscle contracts, the vessels are protected from pressure. Emerging from the tendinous arches the perforating arteries wind round the posterior border of the femur to gain its lateral aspect and reach the vastus lateralis in which they end. In this part of their course they pierce the short head of the biceps femoris. The highest member of the series, which lies proximal to the level of the femoral attachment of the biceps, pierces, as we have already seen, the insertion of the glutreus maximus. Anastomosis on the Posterior Aspect of the Thigh.—In a well-injected subject a chain of arterial anastomosis can be traced from the gluteal region to the popliteal fossa, and the present is the best time to examine it. Commencing proximally, in the glutccal region, the superior glutieal artery is found anastomosing with the inferior glutieal, and the inferior glutmal witli the terminal branches of the medial circumflex artery. In the posterior part of the thigh the