58 THE UPPER EXTREMPPY border of the coracoid process, whilst by its apex it is attached to the extremity of the acromion (Fig. 39, p. 91). The coraco-acromial arch plays a very important part in the mechanism of the shoulder; it might almost be said to form a secondary socket for the humerus. We have already noted the large bursa which intervenes between the acromion and the muscles immediately covering the capsule of the shoulder-joint, to facilitate the movements of the upper end of the humerus on the under surface of the arch. Dissection.—The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles which arise from the dorsal surface of the scapulee, and the subscapularis, which takes origin from the costal surface of the scapula, may now be examined. In order to obtain an uninterrupted view of the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion must be divided, with the saw, close to its junction with the spine of the scapulae (Fig. 21, p. 51). Divide also the fascia which covers the teres minor muscle, and reflect it towards the infraspinatus. By this means the septum from the infraspinous fascia, which dips in between the two muscles, will be demonstrated, and their separation rendered easy. Care must be taken not to injure the circumflex artery of the scapula which passes between the teres minor and the bone. M. Supraspinatus.—The supraspinatus muscle arises from the medial two-thirds of the supraspinous fossa, and also to a slight degree from the supraspinous fascia which covers it. From this origin the fibres converge, as they pass laterally, and, proceeding under the acromion, they end in a short, stout tendon, which is inserted into the uppermost of the three impressions on the greater tubercle of the humerus (Fig. 33, p. 79). This tendon is closely adherent to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The supraspinatus is covered by the trapezius, and in the loose fat which intervenes between this muscle and the supraspinous fascia some twigs of the superficial cervical artery ramify. It is supplied by the suprascapular nerve., and it is an abductor of the upper extremity. M. Teres Minor.—This is the small muscle which lies along the lower border of the infraspinatus. It arises from an elongated flat impression on the dorsal aspect of the axillary border of the scapula, and from the septa of the infraspinous fascia which intervene between it and the two muscles between which it lies, viz. the infraspinatus and teres major. It is inserted into the low'est of the three impressions on the greater tubercle of the humerus, and also, by fleshy fibres, into the body of the bone for about half an inch below this (Fig. 36, p. 84). Towards its insertion it is