133 FOREARM AND HAND Superficial Muscles.—The muscles in this region consist of a superficial and a deep group. The superficial muscles, as we proceed from the lateral to the medial border of the forearm, are:—(1) the brachio-radialis; (2) the extensor carpi radialis longus; (3) the extensor carpi radialis brevis; (4) the extensor digitorum communis; (5) the extensor digiti quinti proprius; (6) the extensor carpi ulnaris; and (7) the anconasus. This group therefore comprises one flexor of the elbow, three extensors of the wrist, two extensors of the fingers, and a feeble extensor of the forearm at the elbow- joint, viz. the anconaeus. In the lower part of the forearm the extensor digitorum communis is separated from the extensor carpi radialis brevis by a narrow interval, and in this appear two muscles belonging to the deep group. These turn round the lateral margin of the forearm, upon the surface of the radial extensors of the wrist, and end in tendons which go to the thumb. The proximal muscle is the abductor pollicis longus, and the distal muscle the extensor pollicis brevis. They are placed in close contact, and so intimately are their tendons connected that in many cases they appear at first sight to be blended together by their margins. Four of the superficial muscles arise by a common origin from the anterior part of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, and at the same time derive fibres from the investing fascia and the septa it sends in between them. These are the extensor carpi radialis brevis, the extensor digitorum com- munis, the extensor digiti quinti proprius, and the extensor carpi ulnaris. The superficial muscles should be cleaned, and isolated as far as possible from each other. M. Brachio-radialis (O.T. Supinator Longus).—This muscle lies more on the volar than on the dorsal surface of the forearm. It takes origin in the arm from the proximal two-thirds of the lateral epicondylar ridge of the humerus and from the lateral intermuscular septum. Near the middle of the forearm a flat tendon emerges from its fleshy belly, and this proceeds distally to gain insertion into the lateral aspect of the expanded distal extremity of the radius at the base of the styloid process. The nerve of supply to this muscle comes from the radial nerve {musculo-spii'af). M. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longus (O.fl’. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior).—The long radial extensor of the carpus is placed dorsal to the brachio-radialis. It arises from the i-9i