491 ABDOMINAL CAVITY orifice'of the vermiform process, which may be quite open, or it may be partly guarded by a semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the valve of the vermifor7>i process. Colon Ascendens.—The Ascending Colon passes upwards from the csecum, in the iliac region, through the right lumbar region to the right colic flexure in the right hypochondriac region. It varies from about six to eight inches in length. It is covered in front and at the sides by peritoneum which binds it to the posterior wall of the abdomen. Occasionally it is attached to the posterior abdominal wall by an ascending meso-colon. Anteriorly it is either in contact with the anterior wall of the abdomen or it is separated from the abdominal wall by coils of small intestine and the right free margin of the great omentum. Dissection.—Turn the ascending colon upwards and clear away the fatty areolar tissue from behind it, then note that it lies anterior to the upper part of the iliacus, the crest of the ilium, and, above the crest, in front of the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum and the medial part of the aponeur- osis of origin of the transversus abdominis. It is separated from the quadratus lumborum, however, not only by the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, but also by the last thoracic, the ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal nerves. It is possible that the dissector will not be able to display the last thoracic nerve at this stage of the dissection. Flexura Colica Dextra (O.T. The Hepatic Flexure of the Colon).—This flexure lies in the right hypochondrium below and somewhat behind the anterior part of the lower surface of the right lobe of the liver, to the right of the gall-bladder and in front of the lower part of the right kidney. It is covered by peritoneum except on its posterior surface, which is attached to the kidney by loose areolar tissue. Colon Transversum (The Transverse Colon).—The trans- verse colon extends first downwards and forwards and then upwards and backwards, from the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, in the right hypochondriac region, to the lower extremity of the spleen in the left hypochondriac region. The lowest part of the curve usually crosses through the upper half of the umbilical region, and a small but acute secondary curve, which is developed upon the left extremity of the main curve, lies against the medial border of the upper part of the descending colon. In the greater part of its extent it is enclosed in the posterior wall of the omental bursa, its lower border being attached to the greater curvature of the stomach by the greater omentum, whilst