THE UPPER EXTREMITY 148 Dissection.—All the muscles around the elbow-joint should be removed. In raising the brachialis and the triceps from the anterior and dorsal aspects of the articulation, some care is required to avoid injury to the anterior and posterior parts of the capsule. It is advisable to remove the supinator last, because it is only when this muscle is completely isolated that a proper idea of its attachments and mode of action can be obtained. M. Supinator (O.T. Supinator Brevis).—The supinator envelops the proximal part of the body and the neck of the radius, covering it completely, except on its medial side (Figs. 41, 54, pp. TOO, 139). It arises from the deep de- pression distal to the incisura radialis of the ulna, and also from the radial collateral ligament of the elbow and the annular ligament of the radius. From this origin the fibres sweep round the dorsal, lateral, and volar surfaces of the radius, and clothe its body as far distally as the insertion of the pronator teres. The dorsal interosseous nerve traverses the substance of the muscle, and separates it into two layers. ARTICULATIONS. Articulatio Cubiti (Elbow-joint). This joint includes (i) the articulatio humero-ulnaris, (2) the articulatio humero-radialis, and (3) the articulatio radio- ulnaris proximalis. In the humero-ulnar articulation the trochlea of the humerus is grasped by the incisura semi- lunaris of the ulna. In the radio-humeral articulation the capitelbim of the humerus rests in the shallow fovea capituli of the radius, and in the proximal radio-ulnar articulation the circumferentia arficularis of the head of the radius is held in apposition with the incisura radialis of the ulna by the lig. annulare. The joint is surrounded by a capsule which is reinforced at the sides by collateral ligaments; in addition the interosseous membrane, which passes between the interosseal crests of the radius and ulna, and the oblique cord, which connects the tuberosity of the ulna with the proximal part of the inter- osseous crest of the radius, help to keep the radius and ulna in apposition and are therefore included in the ligaments of the elbow-joint. The ligaments of the elbow-joint are therefore— 1. Capsula articularis. | 4. Lig. annulare radii. 2. Lig. collaterale ulnare. 5. Membrana interossea antibracbii. 3. Lig. collaterale radiale. | 6. Chorda obliqua.