INFERIOR EXTREMITY 258 as the “ calf of the leg ” is visible. This is largely due to the fleshy bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle. Below the calf, and immediately above the heel, the powerful tendo calcaneus can be felt. In front of this tendon a slight hollow is apparent on either side of the limb. The skin will be reflected from the dorsum of the foot during the dissection of the leg, therefore the present oppor- tunity should be seized for studying the surface anatomy of the foot. The individual tarsal bones cannot be recognised through the integument which covers the dorsum of the foot; but if the foot be powerfully extended the head of the talus will be brought into view in the shape of a slight prominence. The margins of the foot require careful study, because it is by the recognition of certain bony projections in these that the surgeon is enabled to determine the point at which to , enter the knife when he is called upon to perform partial amputation of the foot. Examine the medial margin first. Begin behind at the projection formed by the processus medialis of the calcaneus, and proceed anteriorly. About one inch below the medial malleolus the medial edge of the sustenta- culum tali may be recognised, and about one inch, or a little more, anterior to this is the tubercle of the navicular. Then comes the medial cuneiform bone, which is succeeded by the first metatarsal bone. None of these bony points can be said to form distinct prominences on the surface of a well-developed foot. In order to distinguish them the medial margin of the foot must be carefully palpated. On the lateral margin of the foot the tuberosity on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone stands out as a distinct landmark. Posterior to it is the cuboid, and still more posteriorly the lateral surface of the calcaneus, which is almost completely i subcutaneous. When present in a well-developed form the I peroneal tubercle on this surface may be distinguished, about one inch distal and a little anterior to the lateral malleolus. If the foot be strongly inverted the anterior end 1 of the calcaneus will be seen to project on the surface. Subdivision of the Leg into Regions.—In the dissection of the leg four distinct regions may be recognised, viz. :— 1. An anterior crural region, in which are placed those structures wliich lie anterior to the interosseous membrane, and between the two I bones of the leg. j 2. A medial crural region, corresponding to the subcutaneous or medial I surface of the body of the tibia. |j