105 FOREARM AND HAND Arteria Ulnaris (Ulnar Artery).—'Fhis is tlie larger of ihe two terminal branches of the brachial trunk. It takes origin in the fossa cubitalis at the level of the neck of the radius. In the proximal third of the forearm it inclines obliquely distally and medially, and then it proceeds distally and vertically to the wrist. It enters the palm by passing anterior to the transverse carpal ligament. In the proximal oblique portion of its course the vessel is deeply placed, and is crossed by both heads of the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor digitorum sublimis. In its distal vertical part it is overlapped on the medial side by the flexor carpi ulnaris, but a short distance above the wrist it becomes superficial, and lies in the interval between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris on the medial side and the tendons of the flexor sublimis on the lateral side. On the transverse carpal ligament it is placed close to the lateral side of the pisiform bone, and is covered by a strong band of fascia, the volar carpal ligament (pp. loi, 121), which lies in front of the transverse ligament. Throughout its entire course it is accompanied by two verice comites. It has important rela- tionships with the median and ulnar nerves. The median nerve, which lies upon its medial side at its origin, soon crosses it, but as it does so it is separated from the artery by the deep head of the pronator teres. The ulnar tterve in the proximal third of the forearm is separated from the vessel by a wide interval, but in the distal two-thirds of the forearm it closely accompanies the artery, and lies on its medial side. In the fossa cubitalis the ulnar artery rests upon the brachialis; beyond this it is in contact behind with the flexor digitorum profundus; whilst at the wrist the artery lies upon the anterior surface of the transverse carf^al ligament. Branches of the Ulnar Artery.—In the forearm the ulnar artery gives off the following branches :— 1. A. recurrens ulnaris volaris. 2. A. recurrens ulnaris dorsalis. 3- A. interossea communis. 4. A. carpea volaris. 5. A. carpea dorsalis. 6. Rami muscularcs. The rami musculares are of small size, and come off at variable points for the supply of the neighbouring muscles. The a. recurrens ulnaris volaris (O.'I'. anterior ulnar re- current) is the smaller of the two recurrent branches. It runs proximally, anterior to the medial epicondyle of the humerus, in the interval between the pronator teres and the brachialis