612 ABDOMEN Dissection.—Remove the levator ani, leaving small portions attached to its bony origins, viz. the body of the pubis and the spine of the ischium. Take away all the remains of the parietal pelvic fascia from the side-wall of the pelvis, and the obturator internus will be exposed. M. Obturator Internus.—This muscle clothes the lateral wall of the pelvis on its inner aspect. It is fan-shaped and takes an extensive origin, viz. (i) from the circumference of the obturator foramen, except above where the obturator vessels and nerves quit the pelvis; (2) from the deep surface of the obturator membrane; (3) from the surface of bone behind the obturator foramen as far back as the great sciatic notch. A few fibres are also derived from the parietal pelvic fascia which covers it. From these origins the fibres converge towards the small sciatic notch, and end in a tendon which issues from the pelvis through the small sciatic foramen. In the gluteal region the tendon is inserted, together with the two gemelli, ' into the medial margin of the upper border of the greater trochanter of the femur. The margin of the small sciatic notch over which the tendon glides is coated with smooth cartilage, and this is' raised into three or four parallel ridges which fit into fissures in the deep surface of the tendon. A synovial bursa intervenes between the tendon and the cartilage. The obturator internus is supplied by a special branch from the front of the upper part of the sacral plexus (p. 607). M. Piriformis.—The piriformis lies on the anterior i aspect of the posterior pelvic wall. It arises by three pro- cesses from the anterior surface of the sacrum in the region of the second, third, and fourth sacral segments, between and outside the foramina and, to a slight extent, medial to the foramina; it takes origin also from the upper border of the great sciatic notch and from the sacro-tuberous ligament. The muscle leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and is inserted, by a rounded tendon, into the middle of the upper border of the great trochanter of the femur. It is supplied by branches from the first and second sacral nerves. Ligg. CiNGULi Extremitatis Inferioris (Ligaments of THE Pelvic Articulations). The pelvis is attached to the last lumbar vertebra at the lumbo-sacral articulation, and its several parts are held