559 PELVIS parts of the ductus deferentes. The lateral borders of the fold curve backwards to the sacrum, passing at some little distance from the sides of the rectum. From the lower surface of the sacro-genital fold the peritoneum passes to the front of the rectum, on which it is reflected upwards to the pelvic colon. Below the line of reflection from the sacro- genital fold there is a part of the rectum entirely devoid of any peritoneal covering. The part immediately above this is covered only in front, but at a higher level the front and the sides also are covered, and when the pelvic colon is reached the peritoneum entirely surrounds that part of the gut and attaches it to the posterior wall of the pelvis by a fold or mesentery, the pelvic meso-colon. The hollow or pouch between the sacro-genital fold in front and the rectum behind is the recto-vesical or recto-genital excavation. The Peritoneal Fossae.—As the peritoneum follows the contours of the more projecting viscera, three hollows or secondary pouches are formed on each side: an anterior or paravesical^ a middle or genital, and a posterior or pararectal. The paravesical fossa is bounded medially by the bladder, laterally by the pelvic wall, and posteriorly by a ridge of peritoneum, caused by the ureter, which runs backwards and outwards from the postero-lateral angle of the upper surface of the bladder towards the hypogastric artery. Beneath the floor of this fossa the ductus deferens runs medially towards the genital fossa. The genital fossa lies between the ureteral ridge and the margin of the sacro-genital fold; and the para- rectal fossa is between the sacro-genital fold and the side of the rectum. The two pararectal fossae are continuous with each other across the front of the rectum and form together the recto-vesical excavation. When the rectum is distended the peritoneum of the pararectal fossae is lifted up to cover the expanding wall of the viscus, the fossae are obliterated, and the posterior ends of the sacro-genital folds terminate on, or in close relation with, the wall of the rectum. When the bladder is distended the middle part of the sacro- genital fold is also opened out to help to cover the upper part of the fundus of the bladder, but the lateral parts remain. If, however, the bladder and rectum are simultane- ously distended the lateral parts of the sacro-genital fold pass from the back of the bladder either to the rectum or to the posterior wall of the pelvis close to the rectum,