ABDOMINAL WALl. 4'3 extremity and lateral side of the posterior margin of the testis. The superior extremity of the epididymis is enlarged, and is termed the caput epididymidis (O.T. globus major); its inferior extremity is called the ca/^da epididymidis (O.T. globus minor) ; while the intervening portion, which is narrow, receives the name of the corpus epididymidis (body of the epididymis). The caput epididymidis is attached to the superior extremity of the testis, which it surmounts like a helmet, both by the visceral tunica vaginalis which is continued over it, and also by the ductuli efferentes, which pass from the one into the other. The caiida epididymidis is merely fixed to the back of the testis by the visceral tunica vaginalis and some intervening areolar tissue, whilst the body of the epididymis is free, and is separated from the body of the testis by an involution of the serous covering which forms the wall of the digital fossa. If the superior extremity of the body of the testis be care- fully examined, two minute structures will be observed attached to it close to the head. These are the appendices testis (O.T. hydatids of Morgagni), remnants of an embryonic canal called Muller’s duct. One of the hydatids is usually pear-shaped and stalked; the other is smaller and generally sessile. The ductus deferc7is emerges from the inferior extremity of the tail of the epididymis, and then passes upwards upon the posterior margin of the testis and on the medial side of the body and head of the epididymis. By this relation, the side to which a given testis belongs can be readily detected. 'I'he vessels have already been seen entering and emerging from the posterior margin of the testis. Visceral Layer of the Tunica Vaginalis Testis.—Having learned the foregoing points concerning the testis, the student is in a position to trace the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis. Observe that it is attached to the posterior border of the testicle, where the vessels enter and emerge, and that it covers the sides of the epididymis. On the lateral surface of the organ it forms a little cul-de-sac between the body of the epididymis and the body of the testis. This is called the digital fossa. Note particularly that it is along the posterior border of the testis that the epithelium lining the tunica vaginalis becomes continuous with the epithelium on the testis. Dissection.—Some of the main facts relating to the .structure of the testis may he learned hy a careful naked-eye examination of its difl'erent