ABDOMEN 3<5o from the margin of the pubic arch at the junction of the pubic and ischial rami. Expanding as it passes medially, it unites with its fellows of the opposite side in a medial raphe below and behind the membranous part of the urethra. Its posterior border lies in the angle between the superficial and deep fascial layers of the urogenital diaphragm, and its anterior border is blended with the external layer of the sphincter muscle of the membranous urethra. The sphincter of the membranous urethra consists of internal and external groups of fibres. The internal group is formed of circular fibres which embrace the urethra; they are continuous above with the muscular fibres of the prostate and below with the circular muscular fibres around the posterior part of the cavernous portion of the urethra. The external layer consists of transverse fibres which rise, together with the deep trans- verse muscle of the perineum, from the margin of the pubic arch and from the superficial layer of the urogenital diaphragm. As they approach the median plane some of the fibres pass anterior and some posterior to the membranous part of the urethra, where they blend with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side. These muscles are supplied by one or two delicate twigs from the perineal division of the pude7idal 7ierve. Glandulse Bulbo-urethrales (O.T. Cowper’s Glands).—As a general rule, these glands can readily be detected by raising the posterior fibres of the deep transverse perineal muscles. They are small lobulated bodies of a deep yellow colour, and resemble peas both in size and shape. They are placed one on each side of the middle line, immediately below the membranous part of the urethra, and are overlapped by the posterior part of the bulb—separated from it, however, by the superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. From each a minute duct proceeds, but this duct does not open into the membranous portion of the urethra. It passes forwards between the wall of the urethra and the substance of the bulb for the distance of one inch, and opens on the floor of the cavernous part of the urethra. Art. Pudenda Interna (O.T. Internal Pudic).—The in- ternal pudendal artery is a branch of the hypogastric. It is met with in three different regions of the body—viz. (i) within the cavity of the pelvisj (2) in the glutfeal region, where it lies upon the spine of the ischium; and (3) in the perineal space. It is consequently described as con-