PELVIS 625 broad ligament, and then turn the membrane behind the incision medially from the side wall of the pelvis to the rectum. When this has been done and the extra-peritoneal fat has been dissected away, the ureter, the divisions and branches of the hypogastric artery, the accompanying veins, and the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic passing forwards at the sides of the rectum, wilt be exposed. Whilst this stage of the dissection is pro- ceeding care must be taken to avoid injuring the parietal or the visceral pelvic fascia. The hypogastric vessels lie inside the fascia, and their visceral branches pierce the visceral layer, whilst the parietal branches pierce the parietal layer. The main nerve trunks and the cords of the sympathetic are outside the parietal fascia ; therefore their branches do not pierce the fascia as they pass out of the pelvis. The obturator nerve, however, pierces the parietal pelvic fascia from without inwards at the posterior part of the pelvis, and runs forwards lateral to the hypogastric vessels and below the pelvic brim to the upper part of the obturator foramen, where it enters the obturator canal through which it passes into the thigh. When the extra-peritoneal fat has been removed, the general positions of the structures behind the broad ligament should be noted (Figs. 248, 249). The hypogastric artery serves as a prominent landmark as it descends at the junction of the lateral with the posterior wall of the pelvis. In front of the hypogastric artery the ureter runs downwards till it reaches the level of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, then it turns forwards and medially to the lateral angle of the bladder. In this part of its course it passes beneath the lower border of the broad ligament and the uterine artery, and obliquely above and in front of the upper end of the vagina. The student should verify the important relations of the ureter to the vagina and to the uterus by passing a finger into the vagina, and noting that when the tip of his finger lies at the top of the vagina and at the side of the lower end of the uterus it is immediately below the medial part of the lower border of the broad ligament, and that the ureter passes obliquely from behind forwards and medially across it. Running forward? on the lateral wall of the pelvis, and passing to the lateral side of the ureter will be found the obliterated part of the umbilical artery and the obturator nerve and vessels. In the female the obliterated part of the umbilical artery is frequently below the level of the obturator nerve behind the broad ligament, but it rises above the nerve as it passes forwards. The uterine artery will be found descending in front of the ureter before it turns medially to cross above the duct beneath the lower border of the broad ligament. The hypogastric vein lies behind the stem of the VOL. I—40