578 ABDOMEN This is the longest division of the urethra. It is embedded in the substance of the corpus cavernosum urethrae, and its calibre varies considerably at different points. In each expansion of the corpus cavernosum urethrae, viz. the bulb posteriorly and the glans anteriorly, there is a corresponding dilatation of the urethra; between the dilatations the canal is of uniform diameter, and slightly wider than the membranous portion. The dilatation of the urethra in the glans is termed the fossa 7iavicularis. At its orifice, the external urethral 07'ifice [meatus urinarius), the canal is much contracted, and is even narrower than any part of the membranous portion. The orifice is a vertical slit, and its lower end is connected with the prepuce by a fold of skin, termed the ft-enulum preputii. In the bulb and in the glans penis the erectile tissue of the corpus cavernosum urethrte is disposed very unequally around the urethra. In the former it is chiefly massed below or behind the tube, whilst in the glans it is chiefly placed in front and on each side, a very thin layer lying posteriorly. The ducts of the bulbo-urethral glands (Cowper’s) pierce the floor and open into the cavernous part of the urethra about an inch in front of the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm. The orifices are extremely minute and difficult to And, but by making a small hole in the wall of the duct, as it emerges from the gland, and passing a fine bristle along it, the dissector may be able to find the opening in the urethral floor. After piercing the uro-genital diaphragm the ducts proceed forwards, first in the erectile tissue, and then in the submucous layer, towards their terminations. The walls of the urethra are always in apposition except when urine is flowing through it, and a transverse section through the spongy portion, except at its anterior part, has the appearance of a transverse slit. In the fossa navicularis, how- ever, the slit becomes vertical, showing that there the side walls are in contact. Mucous Membrane of the Urethra.—The mucous lining of the urethra is continuous posteriorly with that of the bladder, and anteriorly with the integument of the glans penis. It is continuous also with the mucous membrane of the various ducts which open into the urethra. Scattered over its whole surface are the mouths of numefous minute recesses, laucnce urethrales. As a general rule, their openings are directed forwards, and they are largest on the dorsal wall,