ABDOMEN 372 the wall of the vagina. In front of the urethra, between it and the clitoris, the two halves of the bulb are brought into direct communication with each other by a venous plexus called the pars intermedia^ which, in turn, is continuous with the erectile tissue of the glans clitoridis. To obtain a proper idea of these connections, it is necessary to study specimens which have been specially injected and prepared. The arrangement of erectile tissue in the female corre- sponds, more or less closely, with the condition present in the male. The apparent dissimilarity is due to the presence of the urogenital fissure and orifice of the vagina. Suppose, for a moment, that the latter is obliterated and that the vestibule is closed in the form of a canal which carries the urethra forwards to the extremity of the clitoris. The two halves of the bulb would then be in contact with each other, and its entire surface would be covered by a muscular stratum, after the manner of the bulb and bulbo-cavernosus in the male. Further, the urethra would be surrounded by erectile tissue, and the pars inier??iedia would correspond, to some extent, to that portion of the corpus cavernosum urethrae which, in the male, lies in front of the bulb and becomes continuous with the glans. Dissection.—If the stitches uniting the lips of the pudendal cleft have not been already removed they should now be taken away. The crura clitoridis have been exposed by the removal of the ischio-cavernosus muscles. To obtain a good view of the entire organ, strip the mucous membrane from the body of the clitoris, and clear away the loose tissue which surrounds it. In doing this, however, remember that on its dorsal aspect certain vessels and nerves run forwards to reach the glans, and that suspending it from the front of the pubes there is the suspensory ligament. Clitoris.—The body of the clitoris is a cylindrical mass of erectile tissue called the corpus cavernosum clitoridis., it is homo- logous with the structure that bears the corresponding name in the male. Along the middle line it is partially separated into two lateral halves by an imperfect septum. The body of the clitoris, which is about an inch and a half long, is bent in a downward direction on itself at the lower border of the symphysis pubis. Anteriorly it terminates in a small rounded tubercle, which bears the name of the glans clitoridis. The glans, however, is not structurally continuous with the corpus cavernosum. It is a little mass of erectile tissue continuous with the pars intermedia, and fitting into a slight concavity which is formed for its reception on the extremity of the