78 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Nervus Musculocutaneus.—The musculo-cutaneous nerve arises from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus, at the lower border of the pectoralis minor. Inclining laterally, it perforates the coraco-brachialis, and appears between the biceps brachii and the brachialis. It proceeds obliquely distally between these muscles until it reaches the bend of the elbow, where it comes to the surface at the lateral border of the tendon of the biceps brachii. From this point onwards it has already been traced as the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm (p. 67). In the upper arm the musculo-cutaneous supplies branches to the three muscles in this region. The branch to the coraco-brachialis is given off before the parent trunk enters the substance of the muscle; the branches to the biceps brachii and brachialis issue from it as it lies between them. M. Coracobrachialis.—This is an elongated muscle, which takes origin from the tip of the coracoid process in con- junction with the short head of the biceps brachii. It pro- ceeds distally, along the medial margin of the biceps brachii, and obtains insertion into a linear ridge situated upon the medial aspect of the body of the humerus about its middle. M. Biceps Brachii (O.T. Biceps).—The biceps brachii muscle arises from the scapula by two distinct heads of origin. The short or medial head springs from the tip of the coracoid process in conjunction with the coraco-brachialis (Fig. 15, p. 34). The long ox lateral head is a rounded tendon, which occupies the intertubercular sulcus of the humerus. Its origin cannot be studied at this stage of the dissection because it is placed within the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Suffice it for the present to say, that it arises from an im- pression on the scapula immediately above the glenoid cavity. Both heads swell out into elongated fleshy bellies, which, at first, are closely applied to each other, and afterwards united in the lower third of the arm. Towards the bend of the elbow the fleshy fibres converge upon a stout, short tendon, which is inserted into the dorsal part of the tuberosity of the radius. This insertion will be more fully examined at a later period, but it may be noticed in the meantime that the tendon is twisted so as to present its margins to the front and dorsal aspect of the limb, and further, that a bursa mucosa is interposed between it and the volar smooth part of the radial tuberosity.