300 INFERIOR EXTREMITY slips, and between these the tendon of the flexor longus proceeds forwards to its insertion into the plantar aspect of the base of the ungual phalanx. The two slips of the tendon of the flexor brevis are joined by their margins on the deep surface of the long flexor tendon, and then separate again to obtain insertion into the sides of the shaft of the second phalanx about its middle. Tendon of the Flexor Hallucis Longus.—After giving its slip to the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus, the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus is prolonged forwards to the great toe. On the plantar aspect of the hallux it is retained in place by a flexor sheath, and finally it is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. M. Quadratus Plantae (O.T. Flexor Accessorius).—This muscle takes a course straight forwards from the heel, and acts as a direct flexor of the toes. It also tends to bring the tendons of the long flexor muscle into a line with the toes upon which they operate. It arises by two heads which embrace the calcaneus and the long plantar ligament. The ?!iedial head^ wide and fleshy, springs from the medial concave surface of the calcaneus; the lateral head, narrow, pointed, and tendinous, takes origin from the lateral surface of that bone, and also from the long plantar ligament. The quadratus plantse is inserted into the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus in the middle of the sole. It is supplied by a branch from the lateral plantar nerve. Mm. Lumbricales.—-The lumbrical muscles of the foot are not so strong as the corresponding muscles in the palm of the hand. They are four in number, and arise from the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus. The three lateral lumbricals spring from the adjacent sides of the tendons between which they lie ; the first or most medial muscle takes origin from the medial side of the tendon of the long flexor which goes to the second toe. The slender tendons of the lumbrical muscles proceed to the medial sides of the four lateral toes, and are inserted into the expansions of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the proximal phalanges. The first or most medial lumbrical is supplied by the medial plantar nerve: the others by the lateral pla7itar nerve. Dissection.—To bring the third layer of muscles into view the following dissection must be made :—Divide the two heads of the quadratus plantaj and draw the muscle forwards from under the lateral plantar vessels and