547 ABDOMINAL CAVITY superiorly, it contracts and becomes the thoracic duct. About its middle it is joined anteriorly by the intestinal trunk. Entering it near its upper end are two lymph trunks which come from the lower intercostal glands; they reach it by passing downwards through the aortic opening. The vena azygos lies along its right side, but the cisterna chyli is easily distinguished from this by the whiteness of its walls. The thoracic duct enters the thorax by passing through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. The Azygos Vein.—The azygos vem (O.T. vena azygos major) usually takes origin in the right ascending lumbar vein. It will be found in the interval between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta, upon the right side of the cisterna chyli, and it will be noticed to enter the thorax by passing through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. The Hemiazygos Vein (O.T. Vena Azygos Minor Inferior) is more difficult to discover. It originates on the left side of the spine, in the left ascending lumbar vein, and enters the thorax by piercing the left crus of the diaphragm. Fascia and Muscles on the Posterior Wall OF the Abdomen. The muscles on the posterior wall of the abdomen are three in number, viz.—(i) the psoas fuagnus, an elongated fleshy mass extending downwards on the side of the spine; (2) the qtcadraius lumborum, a quadrate muscle external to the psoas, and stretching between the crest of the ilium and the last rib; (3) the iliacus, situated in the iliac fossa. The fascia which covers these muscles must be studied first. Quadratus Lmnborum Fascia.—Follow this medially and it will be found to be attached to the medial ends of the anterior surfaces of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Trace it laterally and it will be noticed to join the posterior aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle. From these connections the dissector will understand that this fascia is simply the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. Above, it is fixed to the last rib, and is thickened so as to form the arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis, whilst inferiorly it is attached to the ilio-lumbar ligament. The quadratus lumborum muscle, therefore, is enclosed in a sheath formed anteriorly by the