13 AXILLARY SPACE different directions as they proceed to join both laminte of the tendon of insertion; thus the superior fibres descend slightly, the intermediate fibres pass horizontally, whilst the inferior fibres ascend, and, at the same time, gain the deep - surface of the rest of the muscle. A smooth, full, and rounded I _ lower border is in this way formed which constitutes the anterior fold of the axilla. The precise manner in which I the muscle is attached to the humerus will be more fully j • studied at a later stage of the dissection (p. 56). L The pectoralis major is supplied by the medial and lateral B anterior thoracic nerves. I Axilla.—The axilla may be defined as being the hollow or I recess between the upper part of the side of the thorax and the upper part of the arm. When the limb is abducted from the trunk, and the areolo-fatty tissue which occupies the axilia is removed, the space presents a pyramidal form. The apex, or narrow part of the space, placed immediately to ■ the medial side of the coracoid process, is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, whilst the wider part or base looks downwards. The medial wall formed by the thorax is of greater extent than the lateral wall formed by the arm. It follows from this, therefore, that the anterior and posterior walls converge as they proceed laterally, and because the posterior wall is longer than the anterior, the posterior border of the base is lower than the anterior. Before engaging in the dissection of the space, it is necessary that the student should have some knowledge of its boundaries, and the manner I in which its contents are disposed in relation to these. Boundaries of the Axilla.—The anterior wall is formed by the two pectoral muscles and the costo-coracoid membrane. The pectoralis major constitutes the superficial stratum, and •• is spread out over the entire extent of the anterior wall. The pectoralis minor, which lies subjacent to the pectoralis major, is only in relation to about one-third of the anterior boundary, whilst the interval or gap between this muscle and the clavicle is filled up by the costo-coracoid membrane. 'I'he lower border of this wall of the axilla is the anterior fold of the axilla. It is formed by the lower margin of the pectoralis major, strengthened, medially, by a small part of the lower border of the pectoralis minor, which comes into view near the side of the thorax. The posterior tvall of the axilla is somewhat longer than