1 20 THE UPPER EXTREMITY branches are given to the integument; and if the dissector exercises sufficient patience and care in the dissection, he will notice attached to the nerve twigs numerous minute, oval, seed-like bodies. These are the Pacmian bodies. At the extremity of the fingers each of the proper volar digital nerves divides into two terminal branches. Of these, one ramifies in the pulp, whilst the other inclines dorsally to reach the bed upon which the nail rests. Several twigs pass to the dorsal aspects of the fingers, and these are chiefly responsible for the supply of the integument on the dorsal aspects of the second and third phalanges. Nervus Ulnaris (Ulnar Nervek—The palmar continuation of the ulnar nerve enters the palm by passing superficial to the transverse carpal ligament. It lies secure from the effects of pressure under the shelter of the pisiform bone, and upon the medial side of the ulnar artery. At this level it divides into two terminal branches—a superficial and a deep. The deep branch is continued distally, upon the transverse carpal ligament, and associates itself with the volar profunda branch of the ulnar artery. It leaves the present dissection by passing dorsally between the abductor and the flexor brevis muscles of the little finger. The supe7-ficial brafich runs distally under cover of the palmaris brevis, to which it gives a branch of supply, and then divides into two common volar digital branches. One of these proceeds obliquely over the short muscles of the little finger to gain the medial side of that digit; the other runs distally to the cleft between the little and ring fingers, and divides into the proper volar digital branches for the adjacent sides of those digits. A branch of communication passes from the second common volar digital branch of the ulnar nerve to the adjoining common volar digital branch of the median nerve. The proper volar digital branches of the ulnar nerve are distributed on the sides of the fingers in precisely the same manner as those derived from the median. Lig. Carpi Transversum (O.T. Anterior Annular Liga- ment).—This is a thick, dense, fibrous band, which stretches across the front of the concavity of the carpus, and converts it into an osteo-fibrous tunnel for the passage of the flexor tendons into the palm. On each side it is attached to the two piers of the carpal arch, viz. on the lateral side to the tubercle