ABDOMINAL WALL digitations of the external oblique muscle, and then each divides into an anterior and posterior division. The posterior divisions are small, and are directed backwards over the latis- simus dorsi. The anterior divisions run forward, and a careful dissector may trace them as far as the lateral margin of the rectus abdominis. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve differs from the other members of the series in not dividing into an anterior and a posterior branch, and in being destined for the supply of the integument over the glutmal region. It pierces the external oblique muscle, in a line with the other lateral nerves, and is then directed downwards over the crest of the ilium. It crosses the iliac crest from one to two inches behind the anterior superior spine. The late?-al branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve is also dis- tributed to the skin of the glutfeal region. It pierces the external oblique immediately above the iliac crest, which it usually crosses opposite the tubercle which projects from the lateral lip of the crest, about two and a half inches behind the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Arterise Cutanese (Cutaneous Arteries). — Cutaneous arteries are found accompanying the cutaneous nerves. Those which are associated with the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches of the aortic intercostal arteides^ whilst those in relation to the anterior cutaneous nerves are derived from the superior and inferior epigastric arteries. In addition to these, three small branches of the femoral artery ramify in the superficial fascia of the groin. These are— 1. The superficial external puclemlal. 2. The superficial epigastric. 3. The superficial circumflex iliac. They take origin in the thigh, a short distance distal to the inguinal ligament, and, piercing the fascia lata, diverge from each other in the superficial fascia. The superficial external pudendal is directed medially over the spermatic cord. It gives branches to the skin of the scrotum and under surface of the penis. The superficial circumflex iliac proceeds laterally and upwards along the line of the inguinal ligament (Poupart’s), and ends in the skin in the neighbourhood of the anterior superior spine of the ilium.