INFERIOR EXTREMITY 172 wards the fossa ovalis and join the great saphenous vein before it pierces the fascia. Lymph Glands and Vessels.—The disposition of the super- ficial lymph glands into two groups will now be evident—a proximal inguinal group along the line of the inguinal ligament, immediately distal to the attachment of Scarpa’s fascia to the fascia lata, and a distal groups the superficial subinguinal glands, which extends for a short way down the thigh along the line of the great saphenous vein. In a spare subject, or, better still, in a dropsical subject, the general arrangement of the lymph vessels may also be made out. To the subinguinal group of glands proceed the vessels of the lower extremity; to the inguinal group of glands go the lymph vessels from the genitals, perineum, and the surface of the abdomen. These are termed the afferent vessels. In addition to these, numerous vessels pass between the various glands and connect them with each other. The lymph vessels which lead the lymph away from the glands are called the effej-ent vessels. A large number of these pass through the fossa ovalis, others pierce the fascia lata. They join the deep subinguinal glands and the external iliac glands which lie in relation to the femoral and external iliac arteries. Dissection.—It has already been noted that an opening in the fascia lata called the fossa ovalis (O.T. saphenous opening) is situated at the proximal and medial angle of the anterior part of the thigh. It is bounded proximally, laterally, and distally by a sharp crescentic margin, the maigo falciformis, and through it pass the great saphenous vein, on its way to join the femoral vein, and the efferent lymph vessels which connect the inguinal lymph glands and the superficial subinguinal lymph glands with the deep subinguinal lymph glands. The deep fascia on the lateral side of the fossa ovalis is called the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and that on its medial side is the fascia pectinea. It is difficult to display the opening satisfactorily but the difficulty may be overcome by the exercise of a little care. The dissector should commence by raising the proximal part of the great saphenous vein from the fatty bed in which it lies ; he should then carry the handle of his scalpel upwards behind the vein till he feels it dip backwards over a sharp free margin, the cornu inferius of the opening. This cornu is always clearly defined. It blends medially with the fascia pectinea, which lies superficial to the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. Laterally it is continued upwards into the lateral part of the margo falciformis, and the proximal end of the latter, turning medially, becomes the cornu superius which gains attachment to the distal and medial part of the lig. lacunare (O.T. Gimbcrnat’s ligament). The margo falci- formis and the cornu superius are not always easy to define, but if the dissector, after he has displayed the cornu inferius, will carefully remove the superficial fat from the .surface of the fascia, on the lateral side of the great sajihenous vein, he will find that at a short distance from the vein the iliac portion of the fascia lata suddenly becomes thinner. The sudden