INFERIOR EXTREMITY 236 rounded surface. In thin subjects indications of the bellies of the hamstring muscles may be seen. Eeflection of Skin.—Before beginning the dissection a good-sized block should be placed under the knee so as to support the limb and render the muscles which bound the fossa tense. Incisions—(i) a vertical incision along the medial line of the limb, beginning about five inches proximal to, and terminating about four inches distal to, the bend of the knee ; (2) a transverse incision at the proximal end of the vertical incision ; (3) a transverse incision at the distal extremity of the vertical incision. The two transverse incisions should extend almost half-way round the limb. Two flaps of skin are thus mapped out, and these must be raised and thrown, the one medially and the other laterally. Superficial Fascia—Vena Saphena Parva (O.T. External Saphenous Vein)—Branches of the Posterior Cutaneous Nerve of the Thigh (O.T. Small Sciatic).—The fatty layer upon which the skin rests is now brought into view, and the cutaneous nerves and vessels must be secured. First look for a small nerve—a branch of the posterior cutaneous imue of the thigh—which passes distally over the space near the middle line, and, when this is found, dissect out the small saphenous vem. The vein ascends in the middle line of the leg, and when traced proximally it will be found to disappear from view by piercing the deep fascia, and entering the lower part of the popliteal fossa. The ter7ninal braiich of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh pierces the popliteal fascia at the lower part of the fossa, where it will be seen lying close to the small saphenous vein. In removing the superficial fascia care must be taken of the deep popliteal fascia, which is somewhat thin. Fascia Poplitea (Popliteal Fascia).—Although thin, the deep fascia possesses considerable strength owing to the transverse fibres which are interwoven amidst its proper aponeurotic fibres. In removing this fascia the dissector will notice that it is firmly attached on each side to the tendons of the muscles which bound the fossa poplitea. Proximally, it is continuous with the fascia lata of the thigh. Before opening up the fossa poplitea the dissector is recommended to read the two following paragraphs, which deal generally with its contents and boundaries. Contents of the Fossa.—The principal objects within the fossa poplitea are the popliteal aiiery and m>/, with their branches and tributaries, and the iibial and common peroneal