i6o THE UPPER EXTREMITY where they complete the distal surface of the radio-carpal joint. The members of the distal row of carpal bones are bound together by three dorsal, three volar, and three inter- osseous ligaments which pass transversely between the adjacent bones. The interosseous ligament between the os capitatum and the os hamatum is very strong; that between the os capitatum and the os multangulum minus is weak and not uncommonly absent. At present the interosseous ligaments between the bones of the distal row are hidden from view, but they can be studied when the transverse part of the intercarpal joint is opened. The transverse part of the intercarpal joint lies between the proximal arid distal rows of carpal bones. The two rows of bones are bound together by a capsular ligament which is attached to the volar and dorsal surfaces and the medial and lateral borders of each row. The lateral and medial parts of the capsule are sometimes spoken of as the lateral and medial ligaments of the transverse carpal joint. The volar and dorsal parts of the capsule are strengthened by numerous bands of fibres. The bands on the dorsal surface are irregular in number and strength, but those on the volar surface are better marked and, for the most part, they radiate from the os capitatum to the surrounding bones forming the ligamentum carpi radiahtm. One of the bands of this ligament passes from the os capitatum to the styloid process of the radius and blends with the radial collateral ligament of the radio-carpal joint. Articular Surfaces.—The individual bones of the upper row and the individual bones of the lower row articulate with each other by flat surfaces. In the transverse part of the intercarpal articulation the proximal parts of the os capitatum and the os hamatum form a high convexity which fits into a concavity formed by the distal surfaces of the os triquetrum and os lunatum and the distal part of the medial surface of the naviculare of the proximal rows; and the convex distal surface of the os naviculare is received into a concavity formed by the proximal surfaces of the greater and lesser multangular bones. The two opposed surfaces of the trans- verse part of the joint are, therefore, concavo-convex from side to side, and adapted one to the other.