318 INFERIOR EXTREMITY condyle, and the corresponding part of the medial condyle, are exhausted. This movement of the femoral condyles has been compared to that of “ a wheel partially restrained by a drag ” (Goodsir). Any additional movement beyond this point must necessarily take place in connection with the anterior oblique third of the medial condyle. This produces a rotation or screw- like motion of the femur medially. The medial condyle travels backwards round the spine of the tibia, and the anterior part of the intercondylar fossa comes into contact with the anterior crucial ligament and the medial tubercle of the tibial spine (Bruce Young). The joint is now “ screwed home” or locked. In the initial stage of flexion the reverse movement must be accomplished. The unlocking of the joint can only be brought about by a rotation medially of the tibia, or a rotation laterally of the femur. When fully extended, as we have seen, the joint is locked, and the posterior part of the capsule, the collateral ligaments, and the anterior crucial ligaments are tense. The limb is converted into a rigid column, and the upright posture is thereby maintained with the smallest possible degree of muscular exertion. The muscles which operate upon the bones of the leg so as to produce flexion and extension of the limb at the knee-joint are :—(i) extensors, the four parts of the quadriceps extensor; (2) flexors, the biceps femoris, popliteus, sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. Of these, only one is inserted on the lateral side of the limb, viz. the biceps. The other five are inserted into the tibia on the medial side of the leg. Dissection.—In order to obtain a proper view of the attachments of the crucial ligaments the following dissection should be made ;—The femur must be sawn across about two inches proximal to its distal articular surface. When this is done the saw should be applied to the cut surface of the distal part of the bone, and a vertical cut made through it so as to divide it into a right and a left lateral portion. The saw-cut should be planned to end inferiorly in the intercondylar fossa between the condyles and between the proximal attachments of the two crucial ligaments. By this procedure the crucial ligaments can be studied singly, or together, and their relation to the collateral ligaments of the joint can be examined. It will be seen that the fibular collateral ligament and the anterior crucial ligament constitute a pair of ligaments appropriated by the lateral condyle, to either side of which they are fixed ; while the tibial collateral and the posterior crucial ligaments belong to the medial condyle of the femur, and are attached on either side of it. When this relationship is observed, the tibial collateral ligament may be divided. This will, in a measure, set free the medial condyle, and give greater space for the study of the crucial ligaments. Ligamenta Cruciata Genu (O.T. Crucial Ligaments).—The cruciate ligaments are well named, because they cross each other, like the limbs of the letter X, in the interval between the two condyles of the femur. This crucial arrangement is seen whether they are viewed from the side, by the removal of the distal part of one condyle, or from the front or the back of the joint. The anterior cruciate ligament is attached to the lateral condyle, whilst the posterior is fixed to the medial condyle of the femur. They are consequently some- times termed lateral and medial.