ABDOMEN 55° magnus. Some of its fibres, however, have a separate insertion into an impression below the lesser trochanter of the femur. Nerves on the Posterior Wall of the Abdomen. The nerves on the posterior wall of the abdomen are the gangliated cord of the sympathetic and the anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves, with the branches which proceed from them. These should now be dissected. Gangliated Cord of the Sympathetic. — On each side this enters the abdomen behind the arcus lumbo-costalis medialis, and extends downwards upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae along the anterior border of the psoas magnus muscle. Above it is continuous with the thoracic portion of the cord, whilst beloiv it passes behind the common iliac artery and enters the pelvis. In the thorax, it is placed upon the heads of the ribs; in the abdomen, however, it lies nearer the median plane, being carried forwards by the psoas magnus muscle. On the right side, it is in great part covered by the inferior vena cava, and on both sides the lumbar vessels pass laterally behind it. As a general rule, a small oval ganglion is formed upon the body of each lumbar vertebra. Ratni co77imunicantes and peripJm-al bra7iches op distributio7i proceed from the ganglionic cord. The ra77ii C077i77iu7iica77tes connect the ganglia with the anterior primary divisions of the lumbar spinal nerves. One or more will be found accompanying each lumbar artery. Trace them backwards by cutting through the fibrous arches which bridge over these vessels and scraping away the fibres of the psoas muscle. They join the lumbar nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. The rami communicantes consist of two sets, viz. white and grey. . The white ra/?ii co/zimu/iicanies are composed of medullated fibres wliich pass from the spinal nerves to the gangliated cord. In the lumbar region there are only two or at most three of these, and they proceed from the upper two or three lumbar nerves. The gi-ey ra/ni coi/n/iunicauies are much more numerous, and are formed of fibres which stream out in an irregular manner from the sympathetic cord to all the anterior primary divisions of the lumbar' nerves. The pe7’ipheral bra7iches of disfribtttmi consist of a large number of small filaments which arise irregularly from the lumbar gangliated cord and pass medially to the aortic plexus.