ABDOMEN 394 Nerves of the Abdominal Wall.—Running forwards upon the transversus abdominis muscle, the dissector will find the following nerves :— 1. The anterior branches of the lower seven thoracic nerves. 2. The ilio-hypogastric nerve. \From the anterior branch of the first 3. The ilio-inguinal nerve. / lumbar nerve. The seven lower thoracic nerves enter the abdominal wall at the margin of the costal arch, where they insinuate themselves between the internal oblique and the transversus abdominis muscle. Then they run to the lateral border of the rectus muscle, where they disappear by piercing and passing within the sheath of the muscle. In a future dissection they will be observed sinking into the substance of the rectus, supplying it with twigs, and then turning forwards to pierce the sheath a second time. They end on the front of the abdomen as the anterior cutaneous nerves. Midway between the spine and the linea alba they give off the lateral cutaneous branches. They likewise supply offsets to the transversus abdominis and two oblique muscles. Minute arteries accompany these nerves. The last thoracic nerve also supplies the oblique and transverse muscles, and in addition it gives a branch to the pyramidalis muscle. Its lateral or iliac b?-anch, however, goes to the skin of the buttock. The ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal are the two lowest nerves of the series. They are directed forwards between the internal oblique and the transversus close to the crest of the ilium. The ilio-hypogastric is the higher of the two. It gives off an iliac or lateral branch, which pierces the two oblique muscles and then crosses the crest of the ilium to reach the skin of the glutmal region. The anterior portion of the nerve perforates the internal oblique, a short distance in front of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and then runs forwards towards the linea alba. It does not enter the sheath of the rectus, but becomes superficial by piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique immediately above the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The ilio-inguinal ne^-ve gives off no lateral branch. It pierces the internal oblique, to which it gives branches, a short distance above the inguinal ligament, and it becomes superficial by passing through the subcutaneous inguinal ring.