INFERIOR EXTREMITY 276 again be examined. Observe how the sartorius overlaps the tendons of the other two, and how the tendon of the gracilis overlaps the proximal part of the tendon of the semitendinosus. Bursae mucosa separate these tendons from each other. The collateral tibial Ugame7it of the knee-joint will be seen extending distally, for a short distance, upon the medial aspect of the body of the tibia. Passing anteriorly under cover of this ligament, so as to gain the anterior aspect of the knee, are the inferior medial genicular vessels and the inferior 7nedial articular 7ierve. Posterior Crural Region. The following is a list of the structures which are met with in this dissection :— 1. 2. 3- 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- r, c • 1 • r Great saphenous vein. ^ ’ I Small saphenous vein. Cutaneous nerves. Deep fascia. r Gastrocnemius. Superficial muscles of the calf, -! Plantaris. (Soleus. Tenclo calcaneus (Achillis) and its bursa. Posterior tibial vessels. Tibial nerve. {Popliteus. Flexor hallucis longus. Tibialis posterior. Flexor digitorum longus. Ligament laciniatum. Deep muscles. Reflection of Skin.—The limb must now be placed on its anterior aspect, and the muscles of the calf rendered tense by flexing the foot at the ankle-joint. This position should be maintained by the aid of hooks, fastened to the toes and to the under surface of the table. Incisions.—(i) A longitudinal incision along the middle line of the leg, on its posterior aspect, to the extremity of the heel. (2) A transverse incision at the distal end of this, extending along the medial and lateral margins of the foot for about two inches on either side. The two flaps of skin thus marked out must be raised and turned laterally and medially. Superficial Veins. — The great and S7nall saflie/wus veins must be traced in the substance of the fatty superficial fascia. Both of these vessels have been seen in previous steps of the dissection. The great safhe7wus vem has been observed to arise from the medial extremity of the venous arch on the dorsum of the foot, and it has been followed proximallyi for a short distance, anterior to the medial malleolus, and then