FOREARM AND HAND ”3 raised with care. More especially is it necessary to proceed with caution at the roots of the fingers in order that some transverse fibres, constituting a superficial cutaneous ligament, may be preserved. In reflecting the medial flap of integument it is well not to lift it quite as far as the medial border of the hand, because it is into this portion of skin that the m. palmaris brevis is inserted. Superficial Structures.—The superficial fascia over the central part of the palm is dense and thin, and the fat is subdivided into small lobules by fibrous septa which bind the skin to the subjacent palmar aponeurosis. Towards the medial and lateral margins of the hand the fat becomes softer, and the amount of fibrous tissue amongst it diminishes. In connection with the superficial fascia of the palm we have to study—(i) the palmaris brevis; (2) the superficial trans- verse ligament; and (3) the palmar cutaneous nerves. The 7)1. pahnaris brevis is a small cutaneous muscle embed- ded in the superficial fascia which covers the proximal part of the hypothenar eminence. If it has not already been exposed by the reflection of the skin, carry the knife transversely through the granular fat on the ulnar margin of the palm immediately below the transverse carpal ligament. The fleshy bundles of the muscle will come into view. When these have been cleaned, the muscle will be seen to consist of a series of distinct fasciculi, which, in its distal part, are frequently separated from each other by intervals of varying width. It constitutes a thin fleshy layer, which covers an inch and a half or more of the hypothenar eminence. Laterally it takes origin from the transverse carpal ligament and medial border of the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis whilst medially its fasciculi are inserted into the skin over the medial margin of the hand. The volar {pal77iar) cutaneous nerves are three in number, and they arise, as already noted, from the ulnar and median nerves and from the superficial branch of the radial nerve. They should now be traced to their ultimate distribution in the palm of the hand. The transverse superficial Uga77ient is a band of fibres which extends across the palm at the roots of the fingers. It is intimately connected with the skin, and is enclosed within the folds of integument in the clefts between the fingers. Dissection.—The palmaris brevis should be reflected by detaching its fasciculi from their origin, and turning them medially. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the ulnar artery and nerve, which lie under VOL. I—8