ABDOMEN 548 anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, and posteriorly by the middle lamella of the lumbar fascia (Fig. 148, p. 395). Fascia covering the Psoas and Iliacus.—This is one con- tinuous aponeurotic sheet. Above the level of the crest of the ilium, where it is merely in relation to the psoas, it is thin and narrow. Here it is attached laterally to the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum, whilst medially it is fixed to the spine by a series of fibrous arches which bridge over the lumbar arteries. Superiorly, it has been seen to form the thickened band termed the arcus lumbo-costalis medialis. Below the fascia expands so as to cover both the psoas and the iliacus, and at the same time it becomes much denser and thicker. Here it receives the name of the fascia iliaca, and presents most important connections. The external iliac vessels lie upon it, whilst the femoral nerve lies behind it. The lumbo-inguinal nerve pierces it, and comes into relation with the external iliac artery. Laterally it is firmly fixed to the crest of the ilium, whilst medially it sweeps over the psoas, and is attached to the brim of the small pelvis. These attachments can be easily demonstrated by dividing it in the vertical direction, over the iliacus, a short way to the lateral side of the psoas. It is very loosely attached to the subjacent muscles, so that the fingers can readily be passed behind it, first in a lateral and then in a medial direction. Note that no perceptible fascial partition dips backwards from it between the psoas and iliacus. The inferior connections of this fascia have already been studied (p. 183). On the lateral side of the iliac vessels it has been seen to become continuous with the fascia transversalis, and, at the same time, to be attached to the inguinal ligament; whilst behind these vessels it is carried downwards into the thigh, to form the posterior wall of the femoral sheath. Surgical Anatomy.—The attachments of the ilio-psoas fascia are of high surgical importance. When an abscess forms in connection with the lumbar vertebrae the pus readily passes downwards within the psoas sheath, and in certain cases is conducted behind the inguinal ligament so as to point in the thigh. It cannot enter the pelvis owing to the attachment of the fascia iliaca to the ilio-pectineal line. Dissection.—The muscles should now be cleaned and their attachments defined ; but, in doing this, certain points must be attended to. The medial portion of the fascia iliaca must be carefully preserved, in order that its relation to the pelvic fascia may be afterwards made out. In the case of