421 HERNIA moreover, the constituent parts of the anterior and posterior walls are so arranged that weakness of one wall is compen- sated for by strength in the opposite wall. The dissector should now proceed to demonstrate the truth of these state- ments by making a special dissection of the inguinal region on the left side of the body, which has been kept intact for the purpose. Dissection.—Begin by reflecting the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Make a vertical incision through it, parallel to the lateral border of the rectus, and carry the incision downwards on the medial side of the medial crus of the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The aponeurosis can thus be thrown downwards and laterally and, at the same time,- the subcutaneous ring is preserved. The internal oblique, cremaster, and falx inguinalis should now be cleaned, and their precise relations to the spermatic cord studied. Notice that the fleshy lower border of the internal oblique overlaps the upper part of the cord, whilst, towards the outlet of the inguinal canal, the falx inguinalis lies behind the cord. Next replace the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and introduce the point of the forefinger into the sub- cutaneous ring and press directly backwards. Observe that the finger rests upon either the lig. inguinale reflexum which lies anterior to the falx in- guinalis, or, if the reflex inguinal ligament is absent, upon the falx inguinalis itself; that, in fact, this fascia and tendon and the fascia transversalis inter- vene between the finger and the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue and the peritoneum. The lower part of the internal oblique muscle should now be separated from the transversalis by insinuating the handle of the knife between them. When this is done, divide the internal oblique close to the inguinal ligament, and throw it medially. At the same time, make a longitudinal incision through the cremaster muscle, and turn it aside from the surface of the cord. All further dissection must be effected from the inside. Divide the abdominal wall horizontally, from side to side, at the level of the umbilicus. On raising the lower part and examining its posterior aspect three peritoneal folds are seen, the plica: ttmbilicales, a median and two lateral. In the median fold lies the urachus, which descends from the umbilicus to the apex of the bladder, and in each lateral fold is the obliterated portion of the umbilical branch of the hypogastric artery of the corresponding side. Each lateral fold, with the contained obliterated artery, descends from the um- bilicus to the side of the bladder if the latter is distended, and to the lateral wall of the pelvis if the bladder is empty. The lower part of the fold lies on the posterior surface of the abdominal wall, a short distance to the medial side of the abdominal inguinal ring. There is still another fold on each side of the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, caused by the inferior epigastric artery as it ascends to the posterior aspect of the rectus abdominis ; it is placed at a short distance to the lateral side of the lateral umbilical fold, but runs more or less parallel with it. By means of these folds three fossae are mapped out on each side of the middle line above the inguinal ligament ; they are termed the supravesical, the medial, and lateral inguinal fossae, and are regarded as determining, to some extent, hernial protrusions in the inguinal region. The supravesical fossa lies between the fold enclosing the urachus and that enclosing the obliterated part of the umbilical artery, and the subcutaneous inguinal ring is in front of its lower part, separated from it by the most medial part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. The middle inguinal fossa, t—27 a