I 02 THE UPPER EXTREMITY and the fibrous septum on its medial side also contribute fibres. The ulnar head is placed deeply, and it may be recognised from the fact that it intervenes between the median nerve and the ulnar artery. To bring it into view the superficial humeral head must be drawn well to the medial side. The ulnar head is very variable in size. As a rule, it is a small fleshy slip, but sometimes it is chiefly fibrous. It arises from the medial border of the coronoid process of the ulna (Fig. 43, p. 108), and soon joins the deep surface of the humeral head. The muscle thus formed is carried obliquely distally and laterally, and ends in a tendon which gains insertion into a rough impression upon the middle of the lateral surface of the radius (Fig. 43, p. 108). This attach- ment is placed on the summit of the chief curve of the radius, an arrangement which enables the muscle to exercise ' its pronating action at a great advantage. Close to its insertion the pronator teres is crossed by the radial artery and is covered by the brachioradialis muscle. It is supplied by the median nerve. It is a pronator of the forearm and hand and a flexor of the elbow. M. Flexor Carpi Radialis.—The flexor carpi radialis arises from the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm and the fibrous septa which intervene between it and the adjacent muscles. Its fleshy belly gives place, a short distance distal to the middle of the forearm, to a long flattened tendon, which, at the wrist, traverses the groove on the front of the os multangulum majus in a special compartment of the trans- verse carpal ligament (Fig. 48, p. 122). It is inserted into the volar aspect of the base of the metacarpal bone of the index, and slightly also into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Its relations to the transverse carpal ligament, and also its attachment to the metacarpus, will be exposed and studied at a later stage of the dissection. It is supplied by the median nerve. M. Palmaris Longus.—This is a long slender muscle, which is not always present. It springs from the common origin, the aponeurotic investment of the forearm and the fibrous | septum on either side of it. Its tendon pierces the deep fascia immediately proximal to the wrist, and then proceeds distally, | in front of the transverse carpal ligament, to join the strong j intermediate portion of the palmar aponeurosis. Very ! frequently it gives a slip to the abductor pollicis brevis. It is i