ABDOMEN 35° 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- lO. fa. M. superficialis transversus 0. M. Bulbo-cavernosus. c. M. Ischio-cavernosus. Inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. The internal pudendal vessels and the pudendal nerve and their branches. M. transversus perinei profundus and M. sphincter urethra: mem- branaceaa. Cowper’s glands. The membranous portion of the urethra. Superior fascia of urogenital diaphragm. Superficial Perineal Vessels and Scrotal Nerves (O.T. Perineal).—The superficial perineal vessels and the scrotal nerves must now be followed out:— Arteries -f perineal artery. \ 2. The transverse branch of the perineal artery. ' I. The scrotal nerves. Nerves. - 2. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The perineal artery., a branch of the pudendal, first pierces the medial wall of Alcock’s canal, and then the base of the urogenital diaphragm, so as to gain the interior of the perineal pouch of fascia. It now crosses the superficial transversus perinei muscle, and is continued anteriorly, in the interval between the bulbo-cavernosus and ischio-cavernosus, to the scrotum, to the dartos muscle and integuments to which it is distributed in the form of numerous long, slender branches, the posterior scrotal arteries. Before it reaches the scrotum, it supplies twigs to the superficial perineal muscles. It is accompanied by the posterior scrotal branches of the perineal nerve. The transverse perineal artery is a small vessel which usually springs from the preceding. It pierces the base of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm, and, gaining the surface of the transversus perinei superficialis muscle, proceeds transversely and medially to the interval between the rectum and the bulb, where it ends by supplying the parts in this locality, and by anastomosing with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The posterior scrotal nerves are branches of the perineal division of the pudendal nerve. They appear in the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa after piercing the fascia on its lateral wall. They leave the fossa by piercing the base of