THE UPPER EXTREMPPY 136 The anconceus is frequently more or less directly continuous with the triceps, and this, together with the fact that it gets a special branch of supply from the radial nerve, has led some anatomists to regard it as a piece of the triceps muscle. This is not the case, however ; it belongs to, and is therefore properly classified with, the group of muscles on the extensor aspect of the forearm. The nerve of supply to the anconteus has already been dissected. It is a long slender branch from the radial 7ierve (musculo-spiral), which descends to its destination in the substance of the medial head of the triceps. In addition to this, the distal part of the muscle usually receives a twig from the dorsal interosseous nerve. Dissection.—Reflect the extensor digitorum communis and the extensor digiti quinti proprius. Divide the fleshy belly of each about its middle, and throw them proximally and distally. In doing this care must be taken to secure and preserve the nerve twigs from the dorsal interosseous nerve which enter these muscles on their deep surface. The dorsal interosseous artery and nerve, together with the deep muscles, are now exposed, and may be fully dissected. In the distal part of the forearm the terminal part of the dorsal interosseous nerve dips under cover of the extensor pollicis longus, to reach the interosseous membrane and the back of the carpus. In following this part of the nerve, the terminal or perforating branch of the volar interosseous artery will be seen appearing on the dorsum of the forearm, under cover of the extensor pollicis longus. Deep Muscles.—These are—(i) the supinator; (2) the abductor pollicis longus; (3) the extensor pollicis brevis; (4) the extensor pollicis longus; and (5) the extensor indicis proprius. The supinator will be recognised from the close manner in which it is applied to the proximal part of the body of the radius. The other muscles take origin proximo-distally in the order in which they have been named. The attach- ments of the supinator cannot be satisfactorily studied at present. They will be described at a later stage of the dissection. M. Abductor Pollicis Longus (O.T. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis).—This muscle arises from both bones of the forearm, and from the interosseous membrane which stretches between them. Its origiti from the radius corre- sponds to the middle third of its dorsal surface; its origin frotn the ulna is more proximal, from the lateral part of the dorsal surface of the body immediately distal to the oblique line which marks the distal limit of the insertion of the anconteus. The muscle proceeds distally and laterally, and comes to the surface in the interval between the extensor digitorum com-