634 ABDOMEN occur in the form of the bladder as it passes from the empty to the distended condition are the same in the female as in the male (see p. 588). Urethra Muliebris (Female Urethra).—The urethra is the canal by which the urine leaves the bladder. Its length is about one and a half inches, and it takes a slightly curved course from the neck of the bladder downwards and forwards to the base of the vestibule where it opens on the surface by an aperture called the orificium urethrcB. exter?iufu. The meatus usually presents the appearance of a vertical slit, and lies immediately in front of a prominent projection of the mucous membrane at the lower extremity of the anterior vaginal wall. The projection is easily felt, and when the finger is passed over the vestibular area the position of the external orifice is readily localised. On its way to the surface the urethra passes through the two layers of the uro-genital diaphragm, and in the interval between them it is surrounded by the fibres of the sphincter urethrae mem- branaceae muscle. In the whole of its length it is closely bound to the anterior wall of the vagina, and its walls are in close apposition, except when the passage is opened by the flow of urine through it. The urethra should be split open longitudinally so that its coats can be examined. They are (i) a muscular coat; (2) a submucous coat; (3) a mucous coat. The muscular coat consists of an outer layer of circular and an inner layer of longitudinal fibres. The circular fibres are strongly developed in the region of the neck of the bladder where they form a distinct sphincter. The submucous coat connects the mucous coat loosely with the muscular coat. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds. It contains a number of gland follicles and lacunae and, in addition, there are present in its ventral wall two longitudinal tubules, the para-iirethral ducts, which are also known as Skene’s tubules. They open either into the canal close to the orifice or directly into the vestibule close to the orifice. The Ureters.—The pelvic portions of the ureters in the female are slightly longer than in the male, owing to the greater width of the pelvis and to the greater depth of the bladder. Their relations to the hypogastric arteries and the structures on the side-wall of the pelvis are practically similar to those of the male ureters (p. 592), but the relations of the