ABDOMEN 476 As the peritoneum of the right side of the mesentery is removed take away the fat lying between the two layers and clean the structures exposed. They will be the (i) trunk of the superior mesenteric artery lying along the root of the mesentery ; (2) the accompanying vein, which usually lies to the right of the artery ; (3) the intestinal branches of the superior mesenteric artery, passing forwards to the wall of the gut; (4) the accompanying veins and lymph vessels and nerves; and (5) scattered at.varying intervals from the border of the gut to the superior mesenteric trunk in the root of the mesentery, the mesenteric lymph glands which lie in the intervals between the blood vessels. After the peritoneum has been removed from the posterior part of the abdomen, between the root of the mesentery and the ascending colon, and the extra-peritoneal fat has been cleaned away, a large number of structures will be exposed. Most superficially, immediately behind the peritoneum, will be found the right colic and ileo-colic branches of the superior mesenteric artery with the accompanying veins, nerves, lymph vessels and glands. In the upper part of the region, directly below the root of the transverse meso-colon, the lower part of the second portion and the right part of the third portion of the duodenum will be found, with the superior mesenteric artery and vein crossing in front of the latter and a small part of the head of the pancreas in the angle between them. Behind the superior mesenteric artery is a part of the aorta, and to the right of the aorta the inferior vena cava. Partly behind the duodenum and partly to the right of it, on a posterior plane, is the lower pole of the right kidney. The right ureter emerges from behind the duodenum and passes downwards along the medial border of the lower pole of the kidney, and then behind the ileo-colic and the superior mesenteric arteries on its way to the brim of the pelvis. The internal spermatic vessels cross in front of the ureter (Fig. 184) and the genito-femoral nerve passes downwards and laterally, behind the ureter, on the anterior surface of the psoas magnus muscle. Beyond the lateral border of the psoas magnus the fascia on the anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum will be exposed. As the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon is removed the trunk and branches of the middle colic artery and their anastomoses with branches of the right and left colic arteries will be exposed, with the accompanying veins, nerves, lymph vessels, and glands. When all the above - mentioned structures have been secured and cleaned, the dissector should throw the small intestine over to the right side and should then strip the peritoneum from the posterior wall of the abdomen between the root of the mesentery to the right, and the descend- ing and the iliac colon to the left. He should also remove the lower layer of the left part of the transverse meso-colon. As he clears away the extra- peritoneal fat, after the removal of the peritoneum, he will bring into view a larger number of structures than on the right side. In the median plane, below the root of the mesentery, lies the lower part of the abdominal portion of the aorta, dividing, opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, into the two common iliac arteries, each of which is continued downwards into the corresponding external iliac artery. On the surface of the aorta is the aortic plexus of nerves which must be carefully preserved. To the right of the aorta is the lower part of the inferior vena cava, and to the right of and below the left common iliac artery is the left common iliac vein. Springing from the front of the aorta, about one and a half inches above its bifurcation and to the left of the median plane, is the inferior mesenteric artery. The inferior mesenteric artery runs downwards on the left of the