INFERIOR EXTREMITY 296 Nervus Plantaris Medialis (O.T. Internal Plantar Nerve). —The medial plantar nerve is the larger of the two terminal branches of the tibial nerve. It takes origin in the hollow of the calcaneus under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum. It accompanies the medial plantar artery, and presents the same relations. After it emerges from under cover of the abductor hallucis, it gives off the proper digital branch to the medial side of the hallux, and then ends, in the interval between the abductor hallucis and the flexor digitorum brevis, by dividing into three common digital branches. The branches of the medial plantar nerve are :— 1. Cutaneous twigs to the skin of the sole. 2. Muscular branches. 3. Proper digital branch to medial side of great toe. 4. Three common digital branches. The cutaneous twigs to the integument of the sole spring from the trunk of the nerve, and pierce the aponeurosis in the line of the medial intermuscular septum. The proper digital 7ierve to the great toe supplies the medial side of that toe. The three common digital branches pass to the proximal ends of the three medial interdigital clefts, where each divides into two proper digital branches. The proper digital branches of the most medial common digital nerve supply the adjacent sides of the great toe and the second toe, those of the second common digital nerve supply the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, and the proper digital branches of the third common digital supply the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes. From the third common digital branch of the medial plantar nerve a communication is given to the superficial part of the lateral plantar nerve. The digital distribution of the medial plantar nerve in the foot closely resembles the median nerve in the hand. The proper digital nerves should be traced along the toes. They are arranged in a manner very similar to that of the corresponding nerves of the fingers. The ?nuscular bratiches go to four muscles of the sole, viz. the abductor hallucis, the flexor digitorum brevis, the flexor hallucis brevis, and the most medial or first lumbrical muscle. The branches which supply the abductor hallucis and the flexor digitorum brevis arise from the trunk of the medial plantar nerve a short distance from its origin. The other