130 THE UPPER EX'PREMITY side of the tendon, and are yet supplied by the median nerve. Arcus Volaris Profundus (O.T. Deep Palmar Arch).—The artery which takes the chief part in the formation of this arch is the radial. This vessel enters the palm by passing to the volar surface through the proximal part of the first interosseous space between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. In the present state of the dissection it makes its appearance between the contiguous margins of the oblique and transverse portions of the adductor pollicis. It runs medially upon the interossei muscles and the meta- carpal bones immediately distal to their bases. As it ap- proaches the fifth metacarpal bone it is joined by the deep volar branch of the ulnar artery, and in this manner the deep volar arch is completed. The deep volar arch does not show so strong a curve as the superficial volar arch, and it is placed at a more proximal level in the palm. It is closely accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve; and is separated from the super- ficial volar arch by the group of flexor tendons and their sheaths, the lumbrical muscles, the branches of the median nerve which occupy the intermediate compartment of the palm, and also, at its medial end, by the short flexor of the fifth digit, dorsal to which the deep volar branch of the ulnar artery passes to join the radial. The branches which spring from the deep volar arch are: (i) the recurrejit—a few small twigs which run proximally in front of the carpus to anastomose with branches of the volar carpal arch; (2) perforating branches^ which pass dorsally in the upper parts of the interosseous spaces to anastomose with the dorsal metacarpal arteries; and (3) the volar metaca7'pal branches—three in number—which pass distally, volar to the interosseous spaces, and unite, near the roots of the fingers, with the corresponding common volar digital arteries from the superficial volar arch. Sometimes these branches enlarge and take the place of the corresponding common volar digital arteries. Dissection.—To bring llie arteria volaris indicis r.adialis and the arteria princep.s pollicis into view, the parts of the adductor pollicis must he detached from their origins and turned laterally. The radial artery is now seen passing volarwards between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle.