443 ABDOMINAL CAVITY left lobe, and note that before the posterior border is reached the fingers are carried up to the diaphragm by a triangular fold of peritoneum, the left triangular ligametit (see* Fig. 200). Examine the lower border of the anterior surface, note that it is cleft at the lower margin of the attachment of the falciform ligament by a notch, the umbilical notch. Through this, between the right and left lobes, the ligamentum teres, which lies in the rounded lower margin of the falciform ligament, passes into the umbilical fossa on the lower surface of the liver. Further to the right, in or near to the right lateral plane and opposite the lip of the ninth right costal cartilage, the fundus of the gall-bladder projects below the liver in the majority of cases. Raise the lower margin of the liver and examine the loiver surface. It looks downwards, backwards, and to the left, and over the whole of its extent it is in contact with other vi.scera; on this account it is frequently called the visceral surface. It conceals the upper and right portion of the anterior surface of the stomach, the first and the upper part of the second portion of the duodenum, the lesser omentum, the greater part of the gall-bladder •, to the right of the gall-bladder it is in relation, posteriorly, with a large portion of the anterior surface of the right kidney, and, more anteriorly, with the right j:olic flexure (see Fig. T69). It is divided into right and left portions by a fossa, the . umbilical fossa, which contains the ligamentum teres. This fossa extends from the umbilical notch in the lower border of the anterior surface to the junction of the inferior and posterior surfaces, where it becomes continuous with the fossa for the ductus venosus. Trace the lesser omentum upwards to the lower surface of the liver, and note that it is attached to the margin of a fissure which extends from the neck or uppermost part of the gall-bladder on the right to the umbilical fos.sa on the left; this is the porta hepalis or transverse fissure. It lies at the junction of the inferior with the posterior surface. Note, further, that the upper border of the lesser omentum is continued upwards on the posterior surface of the liver, where it is attached to the margins of the fossa for the ductus venosus. The posterior surface, which is largely in relation with the diaphragm, cannot be conveniently examined at present (see Fig. 200).