PELVIS 615 and laterally, it is inserted into the medial lip of the iliac crest at the posterior part of the iliac fossa. The synchondrosis between the body of the last lumbar vertebra and the base of the sacrum corresponds, in every respect, to the similar articulations between the bodies of the vertebrae above. The opposed bony surfaces are each coated by a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, and are firmly united by an intervening disc of fibro-cartilage, which is dense and laminated externally, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The dissector should observe that this disc is the thickest of the series, and further, that it is wedge-shaped, being thicker in front than behind. Sacro-coccygeal Articulation.—This is a synchondrosis. The articulating surfaces are each covered by a thin cartilaginous plate, and these are united by a disc of fibro- cartilage. The joint is strengthened in front by an anterior ligament, which extends downwards from the front of the sacrum to the anterior aspect of the coccyx, and by a posterior ligament which, attached above to the posterior border of the lower aperture of the sacral canal, proceeds downwards upon the posterior aspect of the coccyx. The latter ligament is much the stronger of the two. In addition, fibrous bands will be found passing between the cornua of the sacrum and the coccyx, and also between the lateral angles of the sacrum and the transverse processes of the first piece of the coccyx. As regards the coccygeal joints (when such exist), the union of the different segments of the bone is brought about by intervening cartilaginous discs and anterior and posterior ligaments. Sacro-iliac Articulation.—The sacrum is wedged in between the two innominate bones, and is held fast in this position by the sinuous form of the opposed articular surfaces, and by the strong ligaments which pass between the bones. These ligaments are:— I. The anterior sacro-iliac. 2. The interosseous sacro-iliac. 3. The long posterior sacro-iliac. 4. The short posterior sacro-iliac ligament. 5. The sacro-tuberous ligament. 6. The sacro-spinous ligament. Ligamentum Sacroiliacum Anterius.—The anterior sacro- iliac ligament is by no means strong. It is composed of a series of short fibres stretching across the front of the joint, and connecting the bones anteriorly.