70 THE UPPER EXTREMITY course. As it approaches the medial epicondyle of the humerus it joins the basilic vein. The median basilic vein is the vessel commonly selected when the surgeon has recourse to venesection. Therefore the relations of the vein are of practical importance. The dissector should note the following points regarding it :—(i) that it crosses a thickened band of deep fascia known as the lacertus fibrosus of the biceps brachii ; (2) that the lacertus fibrosus separates it from the brachial artery which the vein also crosses; (3) that the volar branch of the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm usually passes behind it, although in many cases it crosses in front of the vein. The basilic vein having received the median basilic vein runs proximally, on the medial surface of the arm, in the medial bicipital sulcus; about half-way up the arm it pierces the deep fascia, close to the spot at which the median cutaneous nerve of the forearm emerges, and at the lower border of the posterior wall of the axilla it becomes the axillary vein. The arrangement of the veins of the forearm is extremely variable. In many cases the median vein is absent, and the cephalic and basilic are united, in the anti- cubital region, by a large, oblique, anastomosing channel which lies in the position of the median basilic vein and appears to be the main continuation of the cephalic trunk, the proximal part of the latter vessel being much reduced in size. Lymphoglandulse (Lymph Glands).—If the superficial fascia be searched upon the medial side of the limb, and immediately above the elbow, one or two minute lymph glands will be found in relation to the basilic vein. These are the superficial cubital glands, and they are of interest to dissectors as they are the first to enlarge and become painful in cases of dissection-wound. Fascia Brachii (Brachial Fascia).-—^The deep fascia should now be cleaned by the removal of the fatty superficial layer. It forms a continuous envelope around the arm, but at no point does it show a great density or strength. Above, it is continuous with the axillary fascia and the fascia covering the pectoralis major and the deltoid. The tendons of these two muscles are closely connected vvith it—a certain proportion of their tendinous fibres running directly into it. Below, it is firmly fixed to the bony prominences around the elbow, and in front it receives an accession of fibres from the tendon