THE UPPER EXTREMITY 3° seen that all the three posterior divisions unite to form the posterior cord of the plexus, and, further, that the most medial of these divisions is much smaller than the other two. Of the three anterior divisions the two lateral join to constitute the lateral cord, whilst the medial passes distally by itself, as the medial cord of the plexus. From the three cords of the plexus are given off the branches which supply the upper extremity. From the above description it will be seen that the plexus may be divided into four stages:— First Stage, . . Five separate nerves (viz. four lower cervical and first thoracic). Second Stage, . Three nerve-trunks (viz. an upper, middle, and lower). Third Stage, . Three anterior divisions and three posterior divisions. Fourth Stage, . Three nerve-cords (viz. a lateral, medial, and a posterior). The plexus lies in the lower and medial part of the posterior triangle of the neck, behind the middle third of the clavicle, and in the axilla; extending from the lateral border of the scalenus anterior to the lower border of the pectoralis minor. As a rule the first two stages are in the neck, the third stage is behind the clavicle, and the last stage is in the axilla. It has been customary to divide the branches of the plexus into supraclavicular and infraclavicular groups, but such a division is neither scientifically accurate nor practically important. The branches of the plexus spring either from its roots, or its trunks, or its cords. The parts of the plexus above the clavicle, and the branches given off in the supra- clavicular region, are found and cleaned by the dissector of the head and neck, and the remaining parts of the plexus and its branches are displayed by the dissector of the upper extremity, but the two dissectors must combine to examine thoroughly the general relations and the branches of the plexus. The Relations of the Plexus. — Superficial to the cervical part of the plexus lie the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma, the deep fascia, the external jugular vein, the transverse cervical and transverse scapular veins, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the transverse cervical artery. Behind it is the scalenus medius muscle. In the interval between the neck and the axilla, the clavicle