THE UPPER EXTREMITY 94 by its position within the capsule, and in the deep sulcus between the tubercles of the humerus, serves to keep the head of the bone in place, and to steady it in the various movements at the shoulder-joint. The stratum synoviale (the synovial membrane) lines the capsule of the joint, and is reflected from it upon the anatomical neck of the humerus as far as the articular margin of the head of the bone. The bursal protrusion of the brirsa sub- scapularis under the tendon of the subscapularis muscle has already been noticed. The tendon of the biceps, as it traverses the joint, is enveloped in a tubular sheath of the membrane, which bulges out through the opening of the capsule in the form of a bursa, which lines the sulcus inter- tubercularis, and receives the name of bmsa iniertubercularis. Articular Surfaces.—The smooth, glistening articular cartilage, which coats the head of the humerus, is thickest in the centre, and thins as it passes towards the edges. In the case of the glenoid cavity the reverse of this will be noticed. The cartilaginous coating is thinnest in the centre, and becomes thicker as it is traced towards the circumference. Movements at the Shoulder-joint.—The shoulder is a ball-and-socket joint (enarthrosis), and consequently movement in every direction is per- mitted, viz.—(i) Jlexion, or forward movement; {i) extension, or backward movement (checked in its extent by the coraco-humeral ligament) ; (3) abduction, or lateral movement (checked by the coraco-acromial arch) ; (4) adduction, or medial movement (limited by the coraco-humeral ligament). In addition to these different forms of angular movement, rotation to the extent of a quarter of a circle and circutnduction are permitted. The muscles chiefly concerned in producing these movements are :— flexion—the pectoralis major and the anterior part of the deltoid ; extension —latissimus dorsi, posterior part of the deltoid, and the teres major ; abduction—the deltoid and supraspinatus ; adduction—pectoralis major, coraco-brachialis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi; rotation ?nedial!y— subscapularis, pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major; rotation laterally—supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; circtimduction is produced by the action of different combinations of these muscles. FOREARM AND HAND. Dissection.—The skin has already been removed from the volar and dorsal surfaces of the forearm. It should now be raised from the dorsum of the hand by making incisions along the radial and ulnar borders. This is done in order that the superficial structures in this region may be examined in connection with those of the forearm. Venae Superficiales (Superficial Veins).—On the dorsum of