369 FEMALE PERINEUM is now laid bare. In the anal triangle it agrees in every particular with the same portion of fascia in the male. In the anterior or urogenital triangle, however, owing to the difference in the external organs of generation, there is a slight modifica- tion. It presents the same two layers. In the superficial fatty layer, where it covers the labia majora, there are darios fibres similar to those in the scrotum of the male. The deeper layer has the same attachments as in the male, viz. to the anterior lips of the pubic arch, and to the base of the uro- genital diaphragm; but it is not so membranous, and con- sequently does not form so distinct a stratum. The two fascial pouches are also present in the female, and are some- times spoken of as the mdvo-scrotal sacs. Their separation along the middle line is not due to the interposition of a median septum, as in the male, but to the presence of the urogenital fissure. Anal Triangle. Nothing need be added to what has already been written regarding this portion of the perineal space in the male. In both sexes the steps of the dis.section and the parts found are precisely the same {vide p. 345). Urogenital Triangle. Superficial Perineal Vessels and Nerves. — Under this heading are included :— Arleries ^ superficial perineal artery. 1 The transverse perineal artery. [ The posterior labial nerves. Nerves. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of 1 the thigh. They have precisely the same disposition as the corre- sponding vessels and nerves in the male, with this exception, that they are somewhat smaller, and are distributed to the labium majus, instead of to the scrotum. For a detailed description of these structures, the student may refer to p. 350. Dissection.—The superficial perineal vessels and nerves should now be divided and thrown backwards, and the superficial perineal muscles cleaned. These are three in number, viz. the transversus perinei superficialis, the ischio-cavernosus, and the sphincter vaginte. The two first have a similar position to the corresponding muscles in the )nale ; the sphincter vaginie VOL. 1—24