195 THE THKIII suprenia, escape from the canal by passing under cover of the distal thickened margin of the fibrous expansion which forms the roof. They can be seen in the present stage of the dissection in this situation.- Dissection.—The fibrous expansion which is stretched across the adductor canal, under cover of the sartorius muscle, should now be divided, in order that the arrangement of the parts within the canal may be studied. Distal Portion of the Femoral Artery.—The entire length of the femoral artery is now exposed. Below the apex of the femoral triangle it enters the adductor canal, and is separated from the medial surface of the.thigh by the fibrous expansion which closes the canal, the sartorius muscle, the fascia lata, and the integument. The saphenous nerve crosses anterior to the artery from the lateral to the medial side. Proximo-distally the artery rests upon the pectineus, the adductor brevis, the adductor longus, and the adductor magnus. Its proximal part, however, is separated from these muscles by the femoral vein, which lies posterior to it; more distally, the vein, which inclines laterally, comes to lie on its lateral side on a posterior plane. The relation of parts in the adductor canal is seen in Figs. 71, 72, and 73. From the femoral artery, as it traverses Hunter’s canal, proceed muscular twigs and the arteria genu suprema. The viiiscular branches are irregular in number and in their mode of origin. They supply the vastus medialis, the adductor longus, and the sartorius. Arteria Genu Suprema (O.T. Anastomotic).—This branch springs from the femoral trunk a short distance proximal to the point where it enters the fossa poplitea by passing through the opening in the adductor magnus. The arteria genu suprema almost immediately divides into a saphenous and an articular branch: very frequently, indeed, these branches take separate origin from the femoral artery. The saphenous branch accompanies the saphenous nerve, and leaves the adductor canal by passing under cover of the distal border of the fibrous expansion which is stretched over the canal. On the medial side of the knee it appears between the gracilis and sartorius, and it ends in branches to the integument on the medial aspect of the proximal part of the leg. 'I'he articular branch enters the substance of the vastus