PELVIS 623 anterior surface contains the round ligament of the uterus. The portion of the broad ligament between the uterine tube and the ovary is termed the mesosalpinx. The fold which proceeds from the posterior surface of the ligament to the ovary is the 7?iesovarium, and the portion of the broad ligament below the level of the mesovarium is sometimes called the mesometrium. In addition to the uterine tube, the ovary and its ligament, and the round ligament of the uterus, the two layers of the broad ligament include between them other structures, viz. (i) the paroophoron-, (2) the uterme ovarian vessels and nerves. Peritoneal Fossae.—The paravesical fossa lies in front of the broad ligament and at the side of the bladder. The middle or genital fossa is bounded anteriorly by the back of the broad ligament and the ureteral ridge, and posteriorly by a fold of peritoneum, similar to the sacro-genital fold of the male (p. 558), which is called the utero-sacral fold. This is semilunar in form, and curves, on each side, from the back of the uterus to the posterior wall of the pelvis at the side of the rectum. Between its two layers there are some unstriped muscular fibres as well as connective tissue. Where it crosses the back of the uterus it is known as the torus uterinus. The pararectal fossae are situated at the sides of the empty rectum between it and the utero-sacral fold. Excavatio Recto-uterina (Recto-uterine Pouch or Pouch of Douglas) corresponds to the recto-genital pouch or recto- vesical excavation in the male. In front it is bounded by the peritoneum covering the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina and the lower part of the back of the uterus; behmd by the peritoneum on the rectum; while ott each side is the sacro-uterine fold of peritoneum. It is con- tinuous laterally with the pararectal fossae, which are obliterated when the rectum is distended (p. 559). Excavatio Vesico-uterina (Utero-vesical Pouch) is a shallow depression, not always distinguishable, between the uterus and the upper part of the base of the bladder. It is bounded laterally by two slight folds of peritoneum termed the utero-vesical folds. The False Ligaments of the Bladder.—These are the same as in the male (p. 561), except that the utero-vesical folds take the place of the longer sacro-genital folds or posterior false ligaments of the bladder of the male.