MALE PERINEUM 351 the superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm and passing either superficial or deep to the superficial trans- verse muscle, then they run forwards in the urogenital triangle to the skin of the scrotum. As they pass forwards they anastomose with the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The deep branch of the perineal nerve passes deep to the superficial transverse perineal muscle and ends in branches to the deep transverse muscle, the superficial perineal muscles, and the bulb of the penis. Dissection.—Instead of searching for the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh at the point where it becomes super- ficial, and then following it towards its distribution, it is much easier to find it after it has entered the perineal pouch of fascia. Here it will be discovered lying in close relation to the two preceding nerves, but to the lateral side of them. Trace it forwards and backwards. It communicates with the inferior hremorrhoidal nerve, and also with the posterior super- ficial perineal nerve. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh (O.T. lotig pudendal nerve) pierces the deep fascia of the thigh a short distance in front of the tuber ischiadicum, and about an inch and a half to the lateral side of the margin of the pubic arch. As it proceeds forwards it inclines medially, and, piercing the attachment of Colles’ fascia to the margin of the pubic arch, it accompanies the other vessels and nerves to the scrotum, the lateral and front part of which it supplies. Dissection.—Divide the superficial -perineal vessels and nerves, and throw them aside. Root of the Penis.—At this stage of the dissection the student should consider the position of the urogenital diaphragm, and the relation which it bears to the root of the penis. The urogenital diaphragm is a strong triangular jDarti- tion which stretches acro.ss the pubic arch and separates the anterior part of the perineum from the pelvis. It consists of the deep transverse muscle of the perineum, and the sphincter urethrae membranaceae, enclosed between two layers of fascia, an upper and a lower. The tw'o layers of fascia are blended together anteriorly and posteriorly. They are attached laterally to the margins of the pubic arch, and they enclose between them a space which encloses not only the muscular part of the diaphragm but also the membranous portion of the