THE THIGH 203 maximus ; (5) from the proximal part of the linea aspera ; and (6) from the lateral intermuscular septum. The fleshy fibres are for the most part directed distally and anteriorly. By means of the common tendon of insertion the muscle gains attachment to the patella and, at the same time, gives an expansion to the capsule of the knee-joint. It is supplied by the femoral nerve. M. Vastus Medialis (O.T. Vastus Internus) is intimately connected with the vastus intermedius, but not to such an extent as might be inferred from a superficial inspection. In its proximal part the anterior border, which is fleshy, is either contiguous to or blended with the intermedius; distally, the anterior border is tendinous and overlaps the intermedius, but it is not, as a rule, fused with it. “A line drawn from the middle of the linea intertrochanterica distally and slightly laterally to the middle of the proximal border of the patella will define accurately the thick anterior border of the vastus medialis.”—(Williams.) Dissection.—Divide the rectus femoris about its middle, and pull the distal part forcibly towards the foot. The narrow interval between the tendons of the vastus intermedius and vastus medialis will then become apparent, and may be followed proximally. A still further guide is the long, slender nerve of supply to the articular muscle of the knee ; it runs along the medial edge of the vastus intermedius. When the anterior border of the vastus medialis is raised from the vastus intermedius the medial surface of the body of the femur will be seen to be perfectly bare. No muscular fibres arise from this bony surface. The fleshy mass of the vastus medialis may now, with advantage, be divided transversely about two inches proximal to the patella. The muscle can then be thrown medially, and its origin studied. The vastus medialis arises—(i) from the lower part of the linea intertrochanterica; (2) from the line leading from this, distal to the trochanter minor, to the linea aspera; (3) from the medial lip of the linea aspera; (4) from the proximal part of the medial supracondylar line as far distally as the opening in the adductor magnus; (5) from the rounded tendon of the adductor magnus. The fleshy fibres are directed distally and anteriorly, and end in the common tendon of the quadri- ceps muscle. By this it is inserted into the patella, and becomes connected with the capsule of the knee-joint. It is supplied by the femoral nerve. M. Vastus Intermedius (O.T. Crureus) covers the anterior and lateral aspects of the body of the femur, from both of which, as well as from the distal part of the lateral inter-