ABDOMINAL WALL 409 peritoneum lining the inner surface of the abdominal wall. The testis is developed in the lumbar region, and it projects forwards into the peritoneal cavity covered with a layer of epithelium, which is continuous with the peritoneal epithelium. It also invaginates a portion of the wall of the peritoneal sac and so produces a mesentery connecting the testis and the epithelium .which covers its surface with the parietal peritoneum, this is called the mesorchium. The testis and its mesorchium gradually descend in the wall of the peritoneal sac to the inguinal region and, at the same time, a diverticulum of peritoneum, the processus vaginalis, is projected through the inguinal portion of the abdominal wall into the scrotum, producing by its passage the inguinal canal, and prolonging the cavity of the peritoneum into the scrotum. During the latter part of the seventh and the early part of the eighth month of foetal life the testis, with its epithelium and its mesorchium, descends along the posterior wall of this diverticulum, and during the ninth month it comes to rest near the lower end of the scrotum, where it projects forwards in the posterior wall of the lower part of the processus vaginalis. In the meantime the cavity of the upper part of the processus vaginalis disappears and its peritoneal wall forms a solid fibrous cord {Rudiinetitum processus vaginalis). The lower part of the sac, thus cut oft', is the tunica vaginalis of the testis. Its cavity is now entirely separated from the cavity of the peritoneum, but its wall is still connected, for a longer or shorter time, with the peritoneum by the fibrous cord which is the remains of the upper part of the processus vaginalis. In most cases, however, this cord undergoes atrophy from below upwards, and in many cases, as already mentioned, it entirely disappears. The orifice of communication between the processus vaginalis and the peritoneal cavity is usually closed before birth, and the cavity of the upper portion of the process, from the abdominal inguinal ring to the persistent tunica vaginalis, is generally obliterated during the first month of extra- uterine life. The cause of the descent of the processus vaginalis and the testis is still a subject of dispute. It has been suggested :—(i) that it is due to different growth energy in adjacent parts; (2) to traction from below produced by a musculo-fibrous cord, ihe gubernaculuni of the testis, which grows through the inguinal part of the abdominal wall and is attached to the interior of the scrotum, whilst above it is attached to the testis and the adjacent peritoneum ; (3) to the action of intra-abdominal pressure tending to displace the testis downwards. Dissection.—The coverings of the spermatic cord should now be removed, and the parts which enter into its formation isolated from each other. Constituent Parts of the Spermatic Cord.—The following are the structures which form the spermatic cord :— I. The ductus deferens (O.T. vas deferens). 2. Blood-vessels. Arteries. Veins. Lymph vessels. Nerves. / spermatic The internal spermatic. The external spermatic. The artery to the ductus deferens. The pampiniform plexus of veins. f Sympathetic twigs. These are all held together by loose areolar tissue which