FOSSA POPLITI-.A 239 defined and cleaned, the contents should be dissected by removing the soft fat which surrounds them. The dissection of the fossa should be carried out over the entire area at the same time. The heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, therefore, should be well separated from each other. It is here that the dissection becomes tedious, because the numerous branches of the nerves and vessels to the muscles on the back of the leg require time and care for their dissection. The floor of the fossa must now be cleaned. Scrape the fatty tissue from the popliteal surface of the femur with the handle of the knife. It is during this stage of the dissection that the genicular branches of the popliteal artery are liable to injury, as they lie in close contact with the floor. Be especially carefiil not to injure the medial artery of the knee which pierces the posterior part of the capsule of the joint, and the superior arteries of the knee which wind round the femur, immediately pro.ximal to the condyles. The fascia covering the popliteus muscle should be left in position. The Fossa Poplitea as seen in a Section through the Frozen Knee.— The diamond-shaped space on the back of the knee-joint which is brought into view by dissection, differs widely from the condition which is observed when transverse sections are made through this part of the frozen limb (Fig. 88). Before the integuments and fasciae are removed all the parts are tightly braced together, and the fossa poplitea is merely represented by a small intermuscular interval between the lower parts of the hamstring muscles. The fossa in this condition is rather under an inch wide at its broadest part. The popliteal artery, therefore, as it traverses the space, is covered by muscles throughout its whole course, with the exception of a very small part immediately above the knee-joint. Floor of the Fossa.-—The floor is formed from proximo- distally by—(i) the planum popliteum of the femur; (2) the oblique popliteal ligament of the knee-joint; and (3) by the strong fascia which covers the popliteus muscle. Nervus Cutaneus Femoris Posterior (O.T. Small Sciatic).— This nerve enters the fossa poplitea at its proximal angle, and proceeds distally, immediately subjacent to the fascia poplitea. It gives one or two twigs through the fascia to the skin, and finally pierces the fascia in the distal part of the fossa. Its terminal twigs are distributed to the*skin over the proximal part of the calf of the leg. Nervus Tibialis (O.T. Internal Popliteal Nerve).—d'his nerve enters the popliteal fossa, by emerging from under cover of the biceps femoris, and runs distally so as to bisect the fossa longitudinally. It is the larger of the two terminal branches of the sciatic nerve, and it arises about the middle of the thigh. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle it leaves the fossa poplitea and passes into the posterior region of the leg. The superficial position of the tibial nerve has already been referred to. At first upon the lateral side of the popliteal vessels it crosses them superficially, and in the distal part of