THE UPPER EXTREMPl'Y 5° and (d) of several fine filaments which pierce the substance of the deltoid muscle, and appear at irregular intervals on its surface. The latter are difficult to secure, but the main branch can be easily found by carefully dividing the superficial fascia along the posterior border of the deltoid. On everting this border very little dissection is required to expose the nerve hooking round it about two and a half inches above the insertion of the deltoid (Fig. 22). It breaks up into branches which supply the skin over the lower portion of the deltoid region. Deep Fascia.—A firm but thin fascia covers the subscapu- laris muscle. Into this some of the fibres of the serratus anterior are usually inserted at the vertebral border of the scapula. The strongest and most conspicuous fascia in this region is that which covers the exposed part of the infraspinatus muscle on the dorsal aspect of the scapula. It is firmly attached to the limits of the fossa in which that muscle lies, and presents other very apparent connections. Thus a strong septum, proceeding from its deep surface, will be noticed to dip in between the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles, and then, as it proceeds forwards, it gives a thin covering to the teres minor, teres major, and the deltoid. In- deed, it may be said to split into two lamellee—a superficial and a deep,—which as they pass forwards enclose between them the deltoid muscle. Dissection.-—Depress the scapula and retain it in this position by means of hooks. The fibres of the deltoid are thus rendered tense, and the coarse fasciculi of the muscle may be cleaned. M. Deltoideus.—The deltoid muscle, as its name implies, is triangular in form. It is composed of coarse fasciculi, and covers the shoulder-joint. It arises from the anterior border of the lateral third or half of the clavicle (Fig. 18, p. 41), from the lateral border of the acromion and from the lower border of the spine of the scapula (Fig. 24, p. 55). Its origin closely corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. The fasciculi of which the muscle is formed converge rapidly as they are traced distally, and finally they are attached, by a pointed tendinous insertion, to the deltoid eminetice on the middle of the lateral surface of the body of the humerus (Fig. 33, p. 79). Its nerves of supply come from the axillary {circumflex') nerve.