551 ABDOMINAL CAVITY Dissection.—To bring the anterior primary divisions of the lumbar nerves into view, it is necessary to scrape away the psoas muscle. This has already been partially done in following the connecting sympathetic twigs backwards. An occasional branch, the accessory obturator, is liable to injury unless it be secured at once. When present, it will be found descending along the medial border of the psoas. Lumbar Nerves.—The anterior primary divisions of the lumbar nerves are five in number, and pass laterally in the substance of the psoas muscle. They increase in size from above downwards, and each nerve is joined by one or more twigs from the sympathetic cord. Branches are given by them to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. The first three lumbar nerves, with a part of the fourth, unite in a loop-like manner to form the lumbar plexus, whilst the remaining part of the fourth joins the fifth to form the lumbosacral cord. The fourth lumbar nerve is frequently called the nervus furcalis, seeing that it enters into the forma- tion of both the lumbar and sacral plexuses. Plexus Lumbalis (Lumbar Plexus).—This plexus is placed in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae in the substance of the psoas magnus. Above it is usually connected with the last thoracic nerve by a small twig, which descends in the substance of the psoas, to the first lumbar nerve ; below it is brought into communication with the sacral plexus by the branch of the fourth nerve, which enters into the forma- tion of the lumbo-sacral cord. The following are the branches which proceed from the lumbar plexus:— 2' } derived from 1st lumbar nerve. 3. Genito-femoral, ,, 1st and 2nd lumbar nerves. 4. Lateral cutaneous of thigh, ,, 2nd and 3rd lumbar nerves. 5. Obturator, ,, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th lumbar nerves. 6. Femoral, ,, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th lumbar nerves. 7. Muscular branches to the quadratus lumborum and psoas magnus muscles which ari.se somewhat irregularly. The manner in which these nerves spring from the plexus may now be studied. The first lumbar trunk breaks up into three branches, viz. the ilio-hypogastric, the ilio-inguinal, and the upper root of the genito-femoral. The second, third, and fourth lumbar trunks each divide into an anterior and a posterior division. The three anterior divisions are smaller than the others, and they unite to form the obturator nerve; the three large posterior divisions unite to form the femoral I—35 a