478 ABDOMEN aorta to the left common iliac artery, where it becomes the superior hremor- rhoidal artery. Before it becomes the superior hremorrhoidal it gives off the left colic branch, and one or more sigmoid branches. The left colic branch passes to the left, towards the descending colon, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch which run towards the upper and the lower parts of the descending colon respectively. The sigmoid branches run downwards and laterally towards the lower part of the iliac colon. To the left of the inferior mesenteric artery is the inferior mesenteric vein, which ascends, crossing behind the left colic artery, to the root of the transverse meso-colon where it disappears behind the lower border of the pancreas, which is exposed in the upper part of the area under consideration. To the left of the inferior mesenteric vein are the internal spermatic vessels which pass behind the sigmoid and left colic arteries, or their branches, and also disappear above, behind the pancreas. In the upper and left angle of the area, in the concavity of the splenic flexure of the colon, is the lower part of the left kidney, a7id, descending along its medial border, the left ureter, which passes downwards, behind the internal spermatic vessels and the left colic and sigmoid arteries, to the lower end of the left common iliac artery. Running downwards and laterally behind the left ureter, on the front of the left psoas magnus muscle, is the left genito-femoral nerve, and beyond the lateral border of the left psoas is the fascia on the front of the medial part of the left quadratus lumborum. Along the anterior border of the psoas, at the left of the aorta, is the left sympathetic cord. The right sympathetic cord is concealed by the inferior vena cava. When the dissector has found and defined all the structures mentioned he should commence the study of the superior and the inferior mesenteric arteries and their branches. He will find that the superior mesenteric supplies the terminal portions of the duodenum, the whole of the jejunum and the ileum, the ctecum, the ascending colon and the greater part of the transverse colon. That the inferior mesenteric supplies the left part of the transverse colon, the left colic flexure, the descending colon, the iliac colon, and the pelvic colon, and that it also furnishes the greater part of the blood supply of the rectum, by means of its continuation—the superior hasmorrhoidal artery. He will find also that there is a very free anasto- mosis between the left colic branch of the inferior mesenteric artery' and the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric artery. At a later period he will find that an inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric anastomoses with the superior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the gastro-duodenal artery, and when he recalls to mind the fact that the latter artery is a branch of the hepatic, and that it furnishes the right gastro-epiploic, which passes to the stomach and anastomoses on its surfaces with the other arteries which supply that viscus, he will recognise that a complete chain of arterial anastomoses runs along the wall of the abdominal part of the alimentary canal, providing for the continuance of the blood supply to the wall of the gut in the event of one or more of the bigger trunks being temporarily or permanently occluded. Arteria Mesenterica Superior.—The superior mesenteric artery springs from the front of the abdominal aorta about a quarter of an inch below the coeliac artery. At its origin it is covered by the neck of the pancreas, and crossed by the splenic vein. Emerging from under cover of the pan- creatic neck it proceeds downwards, in front of the lower portion of the head of the pancreas, crosses the third part of