3i6 INFERIOR EXTREMITY by areolar tissue to the deep surface of the posterior part of the capsule. Define the attachments of the crucial ligaments by removing the synovial membrane which is wrapped round them and the areolar tissue in connec- tion with them. The menisci should also receive the attention of the dissector, and the manner in which their fibrous pointed extremities are fixed to the tibia must be studied. At this stage the changes produced in the degree of tension of the crucial ligaments, and the change brought about in the position of the menisci by movements of the joint, should be examined. Movements at the Knee-joint.—The movements of the knee-joint are those of flexion and extension. The leg can be bent posteriorly until the prominence of the calf comes into contact with the posterior aspect of the thigh ; but in extension the movement is brought to a close when the leg Adductor magnus. Popliteal artery Semimembranosus Medial head of gastrocnemius Inferior medial artery of knee Popliteal vein Popliteus Popliteus Synovial bursa .Common tendon of quadriceps Sj-novial membrane Patella Femur Infra-patellar pad of fat Deep infra-patellar bursa Ligamentum patellae .Tibia Fig. 117.—Vertical antero-posterior section through the Knee-joint. comes into a line with the thigh. In this position the joint is firmly locked, and the anterior crucial, the tibial and the fibular collateral ligaments, and the posterior part of the capsule with the accessory oblique popliteal ligament being fully stretched, the leg and thigh are converted into a rigid column of support. In flexion, however, the ligaments mentioned are relaxed, and a certain amount of rotation of the tibia upon the femur is allowed. But the movements of flexion and extension at the knee-joint are by no means so simple as at first sight they might appear to be, and to obtain some appreciation of them it is necessary to subject the opposed articular surfaces to a close scrutiny. Flex the joint acutely, and examine the cartilage-covered surface of the distal end of the femur. It consists of an anterior trochlear portion for the patella, and two condylar surfaces which move on the tibia. The trochlea is separated from the surface of the lateral condyle by a faintly marked groove, which takes a slightly curved course, from the lateral border of the distal end of the femur, medially and posteriorly to the fore part of the intercondylar fossa. At either extremity