INFERIOR EXTREMITY i88 fascia lata should be left undisturbed, so as to maintain as far as possible the natural position of parts. Trigonum Femorale (O.T. Scarpa’s Triangle),—This is the name which is given to the triangular hollow which lies in the proximal part of the thigh below the inguinal ligament. The lateral boundary is formed by the sartorius muscle.^ as it runs distally and medially across the thigh from the anterior superior spine of the ilium; the medial boundary is constituted by the prominent medial margin of the adductor longus muscle. These muscles meet below to form the apex of the triangle. The inguinal ligament forms the base of the triangle. The contents of the space must now be displayed by remov- ing the fatty areolar tissue which surrounds them. The femoral vessels should first be cleaned. Remove the remains of the femoral sheath and define the various branches which proceed from the vessels in so far as they are seen within the limits of the triangular space. Be careful not to injure the small twig of the femoral nerve which supplies the pectineus; it passes medially behind the vessels a short distance distal to the inguinal ligament. In this part of its course the femoral artery gives off—(i) the three superficial inguinal vessels, which have already been observed ramifying in the superficial fascia of the groin of the subinguinal region ; (2) the deep external pudendal, which runs medially over the pectineus; (3) the large profunda fe7tioris. The profmda fe^tioris comes off from the lateral side of the femoral artery about one and a half inch below the inguinal ligament. It inclines distally and medially behind the femoral trunk, and soon leaves the space by passing posterior to the adductor longus. The lateral and medial circumflex arteries of the thigh will be seen to arise from the profunda femoris within the femoral triangle. The a. circumflex femoris lateralis (O.T. external circumflex) should be traced laterally as it passes amongst the branches of the femoral nerve, to disappear under cover of the lateral boundary of the space. The a. circumflex femoris 7/iedialis (O.T. internal circumflex) passes from view, shortly after its origin, by sinking posteriorly through the floor of the space between the pectineus and psoas muscles. The veins corre- sponding to these arteries must be cleaned at the same time. Certain nerves are also to be found in this space, viz.—(i)