481 ABDOMINAL CAVITY ctecal junction and sends branches in different directions. Two, termed the anterior and posterior ccecal arteries^ pass respectively to the front and back of the caecum; one, a long slender vessel, the artery to the vermiform process, runs downwards behind the terminal part of the ileum and enters the meso-appendix for the supply of the vermiform process; whilst a fourth, the ileal artery, turns to the left along the ileum, and forms a loop with the termination of the superior mesenteric trunk. The Arteria Colica Dextra arises together with or above the ileo-colic and passes to the right, behind the parietal peritoneum on the posterior wall of the abdomen. It divides into two branches, a superior and an inferior. The superior branch ascends between the two layers of the transverse meso- colon to inosculate with the middle colic; whilst the inferior branch joins the ascending part of the ileo-colic. From the convexity of these arches twigs proceed to the ascending colon, the right colic flexure, and part of the transverse colon. The Arteria Colica Media springs from the upper end of the superior mesenteric. It passes between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and divides into a right and a left branch. The right branch joins the superior part of the right colic, whilst the left branch inosculates with the ascending part of the left colic artery, which is derived from the inferior mesenteric. Arterial arcades are thus formed in the transverse meso-colon, from which branches proceed for the supply of the transverse colon. Vena Mesenterica Superior.—This large vein lies to the right of the superior mesenteric artery, and receives tributaries, which come from those parts of the intestinal canal which are supplied by branches from the superior mesenteric artery, and also the right gastro-epiploic vein from the great curvature of the stomach and the pancreatico-duodenal vein. It passes upwards, in front of the third part of the duodenum, and, leaving the root of the mesentery, disappears under cover of the neck of the pancreas, where it unites with the splenic vein to form the vena portcc. Plexus Mesentericus Superior.—This is a dense plexus of sympathetic nerve twigs which surrounds the superior mesenteric artery like a sheath. From it filaments are prolonged to the intestine along the various branches of the artery. As the nerves approach the bowel some of the twigs VOL. I—31