AXILLARY SPACE 19 the axilla. After the nerve has been secured the serratus anterior must be cleaned. When this has been done the dissector should clean the lower parts of the axillary vessels and nerves and their branches and tributaries. Commence at the lower border of the pectoralis minor and find the subscapular artery. It springs from the medial and posterior part of the axillary trunk and runs distally and medially along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle. Follow the artery and, whilst doing so, clean the posterior group of the a.xillary lymph glands which lie along its course and secure the thoracodorsal nerve (long subscapular), which joins the artery near the junction of the lateral and posterior walls of the axilla and ter- minates in the latissimus dorsi, which it supplies. Rising from the upper part of the subscapular artery is its large circumflex scapular branch which passes backwards through the posterior wall of the axilla. In the angle be- tween this branch and the main trunk will be found the tower subscapular nerve which supplies the teres major and the lower fibres of the subscapularis. The dissector should now thoroughly clean the lower part of the axillary arter}' and vein, the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm which lies in the angle between them anteriorly, and the median cutaneous nerve of the arm which lies along the medial side of the vein ; then he should pull the vein forwards and laterally, and in the angle between it and the artery, posteriorly, he will find the ulnar nerve ; this also should be pulled forwards and laterally to display the axillary (circumflex) nerve, which turns back- wards at the lower border of the subscapularis above the level of the circumflex scapular artery, and the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve, which descends behind the axillary artery to the lower border of the axilla. Spring- ing from the upper part of the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve are its posterior brachial cutaneous branch and muscular branches to the long and medial heads of the triceps muscle ; these branches may rise separately from the radial nerve or they spring from it by a common trunk which afterwards divides into the individual branches. Trace the posterior brachial cutaneous nerve to the back of the arm behind the intercosto-brachial nerve; follow the nerve to the long head of the triceps till it enters the muscle. The nerve .to the medial head of the triceps is usually a long slender branch which is known as the ulnar collateral nerve because it accompanies the ulnar nerve to the lower part of the arm. It will be traced to its termination at a later period. The anterior and posterior humeral circumflex branches of the axillary artery will be found springing from the artery a short distance below the subscapular branch, the former rising from the anterior and the latter from the posterior aspect of the axillary trunk. When the lower part of the axilla has been thoroughly cleaned, the pectoralis minor must be divided, about midway between its origin and insertion, and the two parts must be turned aside. When this has been done the upper subscapular nerve must be found entering the upper part of the subscapularis, and then the remaining areolar tissue must be removed from the axillary space, the trunks and branches of the axillary vessels and nerves rnust be thoroughly cleaned, and the contents of the space must be studied in detail. LympLoglandulae Axillares (Axillary Lymph Glands).— 1 he lymph glands in the axillary region are spoken of, collectively, as the axillary glands, but for convenience of description, and to facilitate a more precise knowledge of their connections and associations, they are subdivided into