595 PELVIS I—38 a changes which occur in the state of the distension of the bladder. It is a matter of importance to notice that the prostate lies loosely in its sheath. Only in the middle line, in front, and around the urethra as it emerges from the gland, is there any degree of adhesion between the prostate and its fascial envelope (Fig. 224). Within the sheath, and attached more closely to its inner surface than to the prostate, is a plexus of thin - walled veins, the pudendal plexus (Fig. 223). The plexus is spread over the anterior border and the lateral surfaces of the prostate, and is denser in the latter situation than in the former. It receives the dorsal vein of the penis, it com- municates with the internal pudendal vein, and it becomes continuous above, at the base of the prostate, with the prostatico-vesical venous plexus from which the blood is drained by the inferior vesical veins. Immediately surrounding the prostate, and quite inde- pendent of the sheath, is the fibrous capsule of the prostate. This capsule varies in thickness, in some cases being ex- tremely thin and in others forming a distinct cortex. In association with operations for the removal of the prostate, now frequently performed, it is important to notice that the capsule has but very slight connection either with the venous plexus or with the sheath of pelvic fascia. It is on this account that the gland can be so easily shelled out from its surroundings. The prostate presents for examination a base or superior surface, an apex or inferior extremity, a posterior surface, two lateral surfaces, and an anterior, rounded border. The base looks upwards, surrounds the internal urethral orifice, and, in a considerable part of its extent, is structurally continuous with the bladder. Around the greater part of its circumference, however, it is separated from the bladder by a grooye in which is lodged a group of thin-walled veins known as the prostatico-vesical plexus. The apex abuts against the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm (Fig. 224). The posterior surface is usually a flat triangular area which rests on the anterior aspect of the rectum, but, occasionally, it is marked by a median vertical groove. The two lateral surfaces rest upon the levatores ani muscles, and are separated from each other by the prominent rounded anterior border, from which the urethra emerges immediately above the apex of the gland.