23 AXILLARY SPACE on the medial wall of the axilla, crosses the interval between the medial and posterior walls, and then runs along the lateral wall to the lower border of the teres major, where it leaves the axilla, and, passing into the arm, becomes the brachial artery. For convenience of description it is usually divided into three parts, the part above, the part behind, and the part below the pectoralis minor, which are known respectively as the first, second, and third parts. The direction of the course of the artery varies with the position of the limb. When the arm is at a right angle with the body, the direction is that of a straight line from the centre of the clavicle to the middle of the bend of the elbow. When the arm is by the side, the artery describes a curve with the convexity directed laterally; and if the arm is raised above the head the curve formed by the artery is convex in the reverse direction. The yfrr/ j>ar^ of the axillary artery lies very deeply. It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, clavicular part of the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, and the vessels and nerves superficial to it. But, even when these are removed, the vessel is not completely exposed, because it is enveloped, along with the axillary vein and great nerves, by a funnel-shaped sheath, which is prolonged upon them from the deep cervical fascia, and by the loop of communication between the two anterior thoracic nerves which lies in front of the sheath. Posteriorly, this part of the vessel is supported by the first intercostal space and the first digitation of the serratus anterior muscle, and the long thoracic nerve and the medial cord of the brachial plexus cross behind it. To its medial side, and somewhat overlapping it, is the axillary vein, whilst above and to its lateral side are the lateral and posterior brachial nerve-trunks. The second part of the axillary artery is placed behind the two pectoral muscles, and has the three cords of the brachial plexus disposed around it. Thus the medial cord lies upon its medial side, the lateral cord upon its lateral side, and the posterior cord behind it. The axillary vein is still upon its medial side, but is separated from the artery by the medial nerve-cord. Strictly speaking, it is not in apposition with any muscle posteriorly, being separated from the sub- scapularis muscle by areolo-fatty tissue. The third and longest part of the axillary artery is superficial