THE KNEE-JOINT 309 their origin, and the anastomoses which are formed between them are unimportant and inconstant. They are sometimes supplemented by another artery, the posterior recurrent tibial. This small vessel is a branch which rises from the anterior tibial before it leaves the back of the leg. It ascends anterior to the popliteus muscle, ramifies over the distal part of the oblique popliteal ligament, and inosculates with the two inferior genicular branches of the popliteal. The tnedian genicular artery is chiefly destined for the supply of the interior of the joint. It pierces the oblique popiteal ligament, passes forwards between the crucial ligaments, and ramifies in the fatty tissue in that situation. Its terminal twigs usually anastomose with the middle arch in front of the knee-joint. It will be dissected at a later stage in the interior of the joint. Articular Nerves of the Knee-Joint.—The knee-joint is richly supplied with nerves. No less than ten distinct branches may be traced to it. The femoral nerve, the common peroneal, and the tibial nerve trunks contribute three twigs apiece to this articulation, and the obturator furnishes a filament to its posterior aspect. The femoral nerve supplies the joint through branches which proceed from the nerves to the vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, and m. articularis genu. These nerves pierce the fibres of the quadriceps muscle, and are distributed to the proximal and anterior part of the articulation. The articular branch from the nerve to the vastus medialis is of larger size than the other two, and it accompanies the articular branch of the arteria genu suprema. The cotnmon peroneal nerve gives off—(i) the superior and inferior lateral genicular nerves : these accompany the arteries of the same name, and end in fine filaments, which pierce the capsule of the joint; and (2) the recurrent articular nerve which accompanies the anterior recurrent tibial artery. This nerve ends chiefly in the tibialis anterior muscle; but a fine twig may reach the distal part of the anterior aspect of the knee-joint. The tibial nerve furnishes the knee-joint with superior and inferior medial genicular branches and a median genicular nerve, which accompany the arteries of the same names. The branch from the obturator nerve descends on the posterior aspect of the popliteal artery as far as the back of the knee-joint. At this point it leaves the artery and, inclining forwards, breaks up into several filaments which pierce the oblique popliteal ligament separately. 1—20 6