THE UPPER EXTREMITY 132 When the whitlow occurs more distally, in the pulp of the finger, the vitality of the distal part of the ungual phalanx is endangered, but the flexor tendons may be regarded as being tolerably safe. When the inflammation occurs more proximally, and involves the flexor sheath, as it generally does, sloughing of the tendons is to be apprehended, unless an immediate opening is made. And no slight superficial incision will suffice. The knife must be carried deep into the centre of the finger, so as to freely lay open the sheath containing the tendons. Early interference in cases of whitlow of the thumb and little finger is even more urgently required than in the case of the other three digits, because the digital mucous sheaths of the former are, as a rule, offshoots from the great common mucous sheath of the flexor tendons, and offer a ready means for the proximal extension of the inflammatory action. Every amputation of the fingers above the insertion of the tendons of the flexor profundus involves the opening of the flexor sheaths, and this, no doubt, explains the occasional occurrence of palmar trouble after operations of this kind. The open tubes offer a ready passage, by means of which septic material may travel proximally into the palm, and, in the case of the thumb and little finger, into the carpal tunnel and distal part of the forearm. Dorsum and Lateral Border of the Forearm. The cutaneous nerves and vessels in this region have already been studied (p. 65). The parts which still require to be examined are :— 1. The deep fascia. 2. The supinator and extensor muscles. 3. The dorsal interosseous artery. 4. The perforating or terminal branch of the volar interosseous artery. 5. The dorsal interosseous nerve. Deep Fascia.—The deep fascia on the dorsal aspect of the forearm is stronger than that which clothes its volar surface. At the elbow it is firmly attached to the epicondyles of the humerus and the olecranon, and it receives a reinforcement of fibres from the tendon of the triceps muscle. There also it affords origin to the extensor muscles, and sends strong septa between them. At the wrist a thickened band—dorsal carpal ligatnent—is developed in connection with it. This can readily be distinguished from the thinner portions of the fascia, with which it is continuous proximally and distally, and it will be observed to stretch obliquely from the styloid process of the radius medially and distally across the wrist to the medial side of the carpus. Dissection.—The deep fascia should now be removed, but that portion of it near the elbow, which gives origin to the subjacent muscles, should be left in place. The dorsal carpal ligament should also be artificially separated and retained in situ.