FOREARM AND HAND 127 Short Muscles of the Thumb.—The abductor pollicis forms the most prominent and lateral part of the ball of the thumb. The superficial head of the fiexor pollicis b7-evis lies immediately to the medial side of the abductor; and by separ- ating the one from the other, the opponens pollicis will be exposed. These three muscles lie to the lateral side of the tendon of the fiexor pollicis longus. To the medial side of this tendon, and placed deeply in the palm, is a fan-shaped muscular sheet, the adductor pollicis, imperfectly separated into a proximal and distal part by the radial artery as it enters the palm. The proximal is the oblique and the distal the trans- verse part of the muscle. In dissecting these muscles the muscular branch of the median nerve must be traced to those which lie upon the lateral side of the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the deep branch of the ulnar must be followed, and its branches to the adductors of the thumb secured. The abductor pollicis arises from the volar aspect of the transverse carpal ligament and the os multangulum majus. It is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb, and slightly into the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the proximal phalanx. Its nerve of supply comes from the media?i. The superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis^ takes origin from the transverse carpal ligament, and is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb. It is supplied by the tuedian nerve. The oppone7ts pollicis springs from the transverse carpal ligament and the ridge on the front of the os multangulum majus. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted into the entire length of the lateral border and the adjacent part of the volar surface of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Its nerve of supply is derived from the 77iedian. The adductor pollicis consists of two parts, an oblique part (O.T. oblique adductor pollicis) and a transverse part (O.T. the transverse adductor pollicis). The oblique part arises from the os multangulum minus, the os capitatum, and the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. The transverse part springs from the lower two-thirds of the volar border of the third metacarpal bone. The two parts con- ' The term superficial head, applied to this muscle, suggests the presence of a deep head. Such a head is present. It is the interosseus primus volaris of Henle {v. p. 147).