GLUT/EAL REGION 227 medial circumflex artery will be seen, whilst between the con- tiguous margins of the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus the larger transverse terminal branch of the same artery makes its appearance. Nervus Glutaeus Inferior (Inferior Glutseal Nerve).—This is the nerve of supply to the glutaeus maximus. It springs from the sacral plexus, and enters the glutseal region through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. During the reflection of the glutaeus maximus it has been seen to break up into numerous twigs which enter the deep surface of the muscle. Arteria Glutaea Inferior (O.T. Sciatic).—The inferior glutaeal artery, a branch of the hypogastric artery (O.T. in- ternal iliac), issues from the pelvis, through the great sciatic foramen below the piriformis muscle, and proceeds distally, with the sciatic nerve, under cover of the glutaeus maximus. Finally, reaching the distal border of that muscle, it is continued as a fine cutaneous twig to the posterior aspect of the thigh, in company with the posterior cutaneous nerve. It gives off numerous branches in the glutaeal region. Of these the large muscular offsets to the glutaeus maximus, and the cutaneous twigs that accompany the branches of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh which turn round the distal border of that muscle, have been already studied. The following three branches remain to be examined:—(i) the coccygeal branch, which passes medially between the ligamentum sacrotuber- osum and ligamentum sacrospinosum to reach the integument and fascia in the region of the coccyx; a number of twigs derived from this branch have been previously noticed piercing the ligamentum sacrotuberosum and ending in the glutaeus maximus; (2) a. comitans n. ischiadici, a minute artery, which runs distally on the sciatic nerve and finally penetrates into its substance; (3) the artery to the (jtmdratus femoris, which accompanies the nerve to that muscle; it will be found lying on the hip bone under cover of the sciatic nerve. In a well-injected body the anastomosis between the inferior glutaeal artery, the two terminal branches of the medial circumflex artery, and the first perforating artery may be made out. Nervus Cutaneus Femoris Posterior (O.T. Small Sciatic Nerve).—This cutaneous nerve arises from the sacral plexus within the pelvis. After escaping through the great sciatic I—15«