40 THE UPPER EXTREMITY line of the angles of the ribs and the lateral margin of the sacrospinalis muscle. In every case the cutaneous branches derived from the thoracic nerves turn laterally in the super- ficial fascia, and may be traced for a varying distance in this direction. It is important to note that the area of skin supplied by each of these cutaneous nerves is placed at a lower level than the origin of the posterior branches from which it arises. In the lumbar region three cutaneous nerves reach the surface by piercing the lumbar fascia at the lateral margin of the sacrospinalis muscle, a short distance above the ilium. They are the terminal twigs of the lateral branches of the posterior rami of the three upper lumbar spinal nerves; and they differ from those above, inasmuch as they turn downwards over the crest of the ilium to supply the skin of the gluteal region (Fig. 17). The cutaneous arteries which accompany these nerves come from the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. Muscles connecting the Limb to the Dorsal Aspect of the Trunk.—These are five in number, and are arranged in two strata. Two form the superficial stratum, viz. the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi. Both are broad, flat muscles which cover the greater part of the dorsal aspect of the trunk, from the occiput above to the ilium below. The trapezius lies over the back of the neck and the thorax. The latissimus dorsi is placed lower down. The deeper stratum of muscles, composed of the levator scapulae and the two rhomboid muscles, is placed under cover of the trapezius. Dissection.—The trapezius should now be cleaned. This muscle belongs only in part to the dissector of the upper e.xtremity. The portion of it which lies above the prominent spine of the seventh cervical vertebra is the property of the dissector of the head and neck, and must be dissected by him. The two dissectors should work in conjunction with each other ; and when the entire muscle is exposed, each should give the other an opportunity of studying it in its entirety. In cleaning the trapezius the limb must be placed in such a position as will render the fibres of the muscle tense. If the dissection is being made on the right side, the arm must be placed close to the trunk, and drawn downwards, whilst the scapula is dragged well forwards over the end of the block which supports the thorax. A transverse cut is now to be m.ade through the superficial and decji fascim, from the seventh cervical spine laterally. This incision will be found to coincide with the direction of the fibres of the muscle at this level. From this point work gradually downwards, raising both faseix in a continuous layer from the surface of