ABDOMEN 5^4 it enters into intimate relationship with the pelvic viscera. The visceral part stretches across the cavity and helps to separate the perineum from the remainder of the pelvis. If the upper part of the parietal layer is examined it will be found that it is continuous at the pelvic brim with the fascia on the psoas magnus muscle, from which it descends to the level of a line drawn from the lower part of the back of the body of the pubis to the spine of the ischium. At this level the visceral layer springs from the parietal, its origin serving to separate the latter into lower and upper parts. If the upper part of the parietal portion is traced backwards it will be found to extend round the lateral side of the hypo- gastric vessels and across the front of the sacrum, behind the pelvic meso-colon and the rectum, to theopposite side. If it is traced forwards a short distance below the brim, it will be found to blend with the periosteum on the back of the superior ramus of the pubis, along an oblique line which de- scends from the junction of the middle with the lower third of the external iliac artery to the upper margin of the obturator foramen. Below the superior ramus of the pubis it forms a distinct thickened border which bridges across the upper part of the obturator foramen, and forms the lower boundary of the commence- ment of the obturator canal, by which the obturator artery and nerve leave the pelvis. To the medial side of the obturator foramen the parietal fascia blends with the periosteum on the back of the body of the pubis, along a line which descends towards the apex of the pubic arch and passes below the line of attachment of the visceral layer. The parietal layer is deficient, therefore, in the region of the upper part of the anterior wall of the pelvis, and as its anterior margin blends with the periosteum on the pubis any effusion lying external to the fascia will be prevented from extending forwards to the anterior part of the pelvis. Fig. 217.—Diagram of the Pelvic Wall and Pelvic Floor.