92 THE UPPER EXTREMITY specially thickened by the addition of fibres, which pass from the scapula to the humerus. Two of these thickened portions receive the names of the coraco-humeral and the gle7io-hiuneral ligaments. A third is placed on the inferior aspect of the capsule, where it is not supported by muscles, viz. between the long head of the triceps and the subscapularis. It is against this thickened portion of the capsule that the head of the humerus rests when the arm is abducted from the side, and it is sometimes spoken of as the inferior gleno- himiet'al ligament. Ligamentum Coracohumerale (Coraco-Humeral Ligament). —This is placed upon the proximal aspect of the joint. It is a broad band of great strength, which is more or less completely incorporated with the capsule. Above, it is fixed to the root and lateral border of the coracoid process of the scapula, and it passes from this obliquely distally and laterally, to gain attachment to the two tubercles of the humerus. It forms a strong arch over the upper part of the sulcus inter- tubercularis, under which the tendon of the biceps passes. Ligamentum Glenohumerale (Gleno-Humeral Ligament). —This ligament can only be seen when the joint is opened. The dissector should therefore, at this stage, remove the posterior part of the capsule, and, drawing the bones well apart from each other, look forwards into the cavity. The tendon of the biceps will be observed arching over the head of the humerus, to reach its insertion on the upper aspect of the glenoid cavity. Immediately medial to this, and parallel to it, will be noticed a ridge on the inner aspect of the capsule projecting into the joint. This band is the gleno- humeral ligament (of Flood). It is inserted into a faintly- marked pit on the anatomical neck of the humerus, close to the upper end of the sulcus intertubercularis. As already noted, the thickened band in the inferior part of the capsule is sometimes called the inferior gleuo-humeral ligament, .'\nother thicken- ing of the anterior wall of the capsule between this and the gleno-humeral ligament proper has received the name of the middle gleno-humeral ligament. Dissection.—Complete the division of the capsular ligament, and draw- ing the tendon of the biceps brachii through the interlubercular aperture in the capsule, separate the two Irenes from each other. Labrum Glenoidale (Glenoid Ligament).—The labrum glenoidale is the dense fibro-cartilaginous band which