ABDOMINAL WAIJ. 40 r the inguinal region it plays an important part as a constituent of the abdominal wall. In the present state of the dissection (on the right side of the body), a small gap or interval is seen to exist between the lower arched border of the transverse muscle and the inguinal ligament. The membrane which fills up this interval is the transversalis fascia. At no part of the abdominal wall is the fascia stronger than here, and this accession of strength is obviously for the purpose of com- pensating for the deficiency in the transverse muscle, which, at this point, does not descend so low as the inguinal liga- ment. In this interval the transversalis fascia has an im- portant relation to the spermatic cord. It, the fascia, is pierced by the cord, but as yet no opening is visible. Take hold of the cord and draw it downwards and medially. The margins of the aperture through which it passes will be observed to be prolonged downwards upon the cord in a funnel-shaped manner, so as to invest it upon all sides with a tube of fascia. This investment, which is thus seen to come directly from the fascia transversalis, is called the infundibuli- form or internal spermatic fascia. Dissection. — It must now become the object of the dissector to demonstrate the more important attachments of this fascia. He must, therefore, divide the fibres of the transverse muscle along the lateral part of the inguinal ligament and along the crest of the ilium, and, raising the muscle from the subjacent fascia, throw it upwards. It is not necessary to reflect the entire muscle. Attachments of the Fascia Transversalis.—When the fascia is cleaned, with the handle of the scalpel, it will be seen to be attached laterally to the medial lip of the iliac crest. Along the line of this attachment, which is by no means firm, it becomes continuous with the fascia iliaca—that portion of the same fa.scial stratum which covers the iliacus and psoas muscles in the iliac fossa. Close to the crest of the ilium the fascia transversalis is pierced first by the ascending branch and then by the terminal branches of the deep circumflex iliac artery. Anteriorly., in the inguinal region, its connections are more complicated, and must be studied at three different points —(i) between the anterior superior iliac spine and the femoral artery, where it will be seen to be attached to the inguinal ligament; along this line also it becomes continuous with the fascia iliaca; (2) opposite the femoral vessels, where it is VOL. I—2(5