644 ABDOMEN displaced during pregnancy, and it is doubtful if they ever regain their original positions. In the nulliparous female each ovary occupies a peritoneal fossa on the back part of the side-wall of the pelvis, below the external iliac vessels and in front of the hypogastric vessels and the ureter. This recess is termed the fossa ovarica. The long axis of the ovary is vertical. From its upper pole the suspensory ligament of the ovary passes to the side-wall of the pelvis, and to the same extremity the mouth of the uterine tube is attached by one of its fimbrise ; from the latter connection the upper pole is frequently called the tubal extremity {extremitas tubaria) of the ovary. The lower, or ute?'ifie extremity (extre7nitas uterijia), is connected with the lateral border of the uterus, immediately below and posterior to the* entrance of the uterine tube, by the round cord-like ligament of the ovary, which lies in the medial part of the mesovarium, and is a remnant of the gubernaculum of the ovary. The anterior border is thinner and straighter than the posterior border. It is commonly called the attached border or hilus because it is connected to the back of the broad ligament by the mesovarium, and through it the vessels and nerves pass into and out of the ovary. The poste7'ior bot'der of the ovary is free, and looks backwards towards the ureter. In the natural position of the organs the uterine tube encircles the greater part of the circumference of the ovary. On each surface of the ovary, close to the anterior border, a white line marks the transition of the flat endothelial cells of the peritoneum into the cubical epithelium of the surface of the ovary. Before puberty the surface of the ovary is smooth ; after that period it becomes scarred and puckered by the cicatrices which mark the positions of the ruptured Graafian or vesicular ovarian follicles from which ova have escaped. Epoophoron (O.T. Parovarium).—This structure is of interest because it represents the coni vasculosi and part of the epididymis of the testis of the male. It will be found by stretching the broad ligament, holding it to the light, and examining the lateral part between the ovary and the uterine tube. It lies between the layers of the broad ligament, and consists of a horizontal tubule and a series of vertical tubules. 'I'he vertical tubules radiate from the region of the hilus of the ovary to the horizontal tubule, in which they terminate. The horizontal tubule lies about midway between the ovary and the uterine tube, and runs parallel with the latter.