S62 ABDOMEN the region of the ureter, and afterwards from the hypogastric vessels and their branches and tributaries. Whilst this is being done, the obturator nerve will be brought into view to the lateral side of the ureter, and below the level of the umbilical artery. Whilst removing the fat and displaying the structures embedded in its substance, the dissector must be careful not to injure either the parietal or the visceral pelvic fascia. He will find that some of the branches of the hypogastric artery pierce the parietal fascia as they leave the pelvis, and that the visceral branches, the rectum, the ureter, and the ductus deferens, pass into the substance of the visceral layer. When the dissection is completed the student should note the relative positions of the structures he has exposed. The ductus deferens will be seen passing downwards and backwards, on the side wall of the pelvis, till it meets the ureter, which is passing downwards, from the junction of the lateral and posterior walls of the cavity and along the front of the hypogastric artery. Before they meet both the ductus deferens and the ureter turn medially and, medial to the point of crossing, they both enter the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. Behind the ureter is the hypogastric artery dividing into its anterior and posterior divisions. Running forwards on the lateral side of the ureter and the ductus deferens are the umbilical, the obturator, the middle and inferior vesical, and, not uncommonly, the middle haemorrhoidal branches of the anterior division of the hypogastric arterJ^ Springing from the umbilical artery are one or more superior vesical arteries, whilst below the umbilical artery and above the obturator artery is the obturator nerve, which pierces the parietal fascia at the back of the pelvis and runs forwards, above the corresponding artery and vein, to the obturator canal. Behind the ureter the lateral sacral branches and the gluteal continuation of the posterior division of the hypogastric artery will be seen piercing the pelvic fascia, and when the posterior division of the artery is displaced medially its ilio-lumbar branch will be found. The hypogastric vein lies along the posterior border of the artery, and those of its tributaries which correspond to the anterior branches of the artery pass, usually, to the medial side of the anterior division of the artery on their way to the main vein. There is no vein with the umbilical artery or its superior vesical branch. As a rule only one vein accompanies the obturator artery, but the inferior vesical and middle hsemorrhoidal veins are usually numerous, and, as they pass to their termination, they ensheath the lower part of the