253 BACK OF THE THIGH portions of the capsule, with more or less distinct attach- ments, are described under special names. These are :— The ligamentujn iliofemorale {ilio-femoral ligament) is placed over the front of the articulation, and constitutes the thickest and most powerful part of the capsule. It springs from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and from a depressed surface on the bone immediately to the lateral side of the spine. As it proceeds distally and laterally, it divides into two limbs, which diverge slightly from each other. The 7nore lateral portion is implanted into the proximal part of the linea intertrochanterica, close to the great trochanter; the medial portion, longer and almost vertical in direction, descends to find attachment into the distal end of the linea inter- trochanterica. The interval between the two diverging parts of this ligament is occupied by a thinner portion of the capsule. The ilio-femoral ligament is sometimes called the ^-shaped ligament., but, in making use of this term, remember that the shape it presents is that of an inverted Y. The ligamentunipiibocapsulare (O.'F. pubo-femoral ligattient) is the name applied to several fasciculi which spring from the pubic bone and the obturator membrane, and join the distal and anterior aspect of the capsule. In cases where the bursa under the ilio-psoas is continuous with the cavity of the joint, the aperture of communication is placed between this band and the ilio-femoral ligament. The ligamenhmi ischiocapsulare (O.T. ischio-femoral ligament) is a comparatively weak band which springs from the ischium below the acetabulum and passes proximally and laterally, anterior to the tendon of the obturator externus. Its lateral extremity terminates in the capsule. The zona orbicularis (O.T. orbicular liga7?ietit) is composed of circular fibres, which are most distinct on the posterior aspect of the capsule. It encircles the neck of the femur posteriorly and distally, but is lost as it is traced anteriorly towards the proximal and anterior part of the capsule. The dissector has already observed the close connection which is exhibited between the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendons of the glutaeus minimus, and the reflected head of the rectus femoris. Reinforcing fibres are contributed to the capsule by both of these tendons. 1. Ilio-femoral. 2. Pubo-capsular. 3. Ischio-capsular. 4. The zonular band.