ABDOMINAL WAT,L 403 The floor is formed, in tlie first part of the canal, by the upper grooved surface of the inguinal ligament. Towards the outlet, however, the floor becomes broader and more definite; here it is formed not only by the inguinal ligament, but also by the lacunar ligament. At this point, as the student has already observed, the cord rests directly upon the abdominal surface of the latter ligament. The parts which enter into the formation of the anterior wall are—(i) the aponeurosis of the external oblique throughout the entire extent of the canal; and (2) the lower border of the internal oblique in the lateral third of the canal. These facts can be readily verified by restoring the structures to their original positions. The parts which compose the posterior wall are still m situ. Naming them in order, from the inlet to the outlet, they are—(i) the fascia transversalis; (2) the falx inguinalis; and (3) the ligamentum inguinale reflexum, when it is strongly developed. But it may be asked, does the transversus abdominis muscle take no part in the formation of the inguinal canal ? The student can readily satisfy himself as to this point. He will notice that the arched lower border of this muscle does not descend so low as that of the internal oblique, that, in fact, it stops short immediately above the abdominal inguinal ring. The canal is closed superiorly by the approximation of the anterior and posterior walls above the cord and by the inter- vention between these walls of the lower border of the trans- versus abdominis. There is still another point to be noted, viz. the relation which the inferior epigastric artery bears to the posterior wall of the canal. This vessel can be felt (and, indeed, in most cases seen) extending obliquely upwards and medially, posterior to the transver.salis fascia, to the lateral border of the rectus. A triangular space is thus mapped out by the artery, the inguinal ligament, and the lateral border of the rectus. 'I’his receives the name of the triangle of Hesselbach. The space corresponds with the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, and chiefly with that part of it which is compo.sed of the falx inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon). In the female the inguinal canal is much smaller than in the male. It has the same boundarie.s, and it is traversed by the round ligament of the uterus. Arteries of the Abdominal Wall.—'I'he following arteries will be found in the abdominal wall:—