37 DISSECTION OF THE BODY upper part of the lumbar region, and it fades away below at the level of the spine of the third sacral vertebra. The finger should next be passed along the crest of the ilium as it pursues its sigmoid course forwards and laterally. The highest point of the iliac crest corresponds in level with the spine of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and the posterior superior spine of the ilium can be easily detected, seeing that its position is indicated by a small but distinct depression or dimple on a level with the second sacral spine. The scapula or shoulder blade is for the most part thickly covered by muscles; but, in spite of this, its general outline can be made out. It covers a considerable area of the upper portion of the posterior aspect of the thorax. With the hand by the side its medial angle lies over the second rib, the root of its spine is placed opposite the spine of the third thoracic vertebra, whilst its inferior angle reaches down as far as the seventh, or even the eighth, rib. The scapula is very mobile, and moves to a greater or less degree with every movement of the limb. The spine and acromion of the scapula are subcutaneous throughout. Below the scapula the lower five ribs can be felt, and the tip of the last rib can be made out at a point about two inches above the iliac crest. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. In this dissection the following are the parts which require to be examined ;— 1. 2. 3- 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- The cutaneous vessels and nerves of the back. I The 111. trapezius. - 1st day. The m. latissimus dorsi. J The mm. rhomboidei and their nerves. The m. levator scapute. The n. accessorius and the nerves from the cervical plexus which supply the trapezius. The a. transversa colli and its two terminal branches (viz. the ramus descendens and the ramus asceiidens). The posterior belly of the m. omo-hyoideus. The a. transversa scapula; and n. suprascapularis. -2nd day. This dissection must be completed lu two days, in order that the dissector of the head and neck may be enabled to con- tinue the deeper dissection of the back. The first day's work 1-3 6