333 ARTICULATIONS (Fig. 126). Its proximal surface, therefore, is smooth and covered with synovial membrane; its distal surface is sup- ported by the tendon of the tibialis posterior. This ligament has an important part to play in maintaining the integrity of the longitudinal arch of the foot. Posteriorly it is attached to the fore border of the sustentaculum tali, whilst anteriorly it is fixed to the distal surface of the navicular bone. The lateral calcaiieo-navicular ligament (O.T. exter7ial calcanea-scaphoid ligament) also forms a small part of the socket for the head of the talus. It is placed deeply in the anterior part of the depression between the calcaneus and the head of the talus, and is the medial part of a V-shaped band, the ligamenttitn bifurcatum^ which springs from the anterior part of the proximal surface of the cal- caneus and immediately divides into a medial or navicular part and a lateral or cuboid portion. The medial part, here called the lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament, is continuous below and medially with the plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament, and dorsally with the talo-navicular ligament. Calcaneo-cuboid Articulation.—In this joint the concavo- convex surface on the fore aspect of the calcaneus articulates with the corresponding surface on the posterior aspect of the os cuboideum. It is a distinct joint, that is, its cavity does not communicate with the cavities of neighbouring joints. The ligafnents which bind the two bones together are :— 1. Capsula articularis. 2. Ligamentum calcaneo-cuboideum plantare. 3. Ligamentum plantare longum. The capsule completely surrounds the joint and its dorsal and medial parts, which are somewhat thickened and are sometimes called the dorsal and medial ligaments of the joint. The medial ligament is the lateral part of the lig. bifurcatum mentioned above. The long plantar ligament springs from the distal surface of the calcaneus, anterior to the medial and lateral processes of the tuber calcanei. It extends forwards to the distal surface of the cuboid bone where it broadens out and is for the most part attached to the tuberosity of that bone. Numerous strong fibres, however, are prolonged anteriorly, across the tendon of the peronceus longus, to gain attach- ment to the bases of the three intermediate metatarsal bones.