AR'I'ICULATIONS 163 I—11 ft Dissection.—To display the articular surfaces of the carpo-metacarpal articulations, the metacarpus should be detached from the carpus. The interosseous ligaments between the carpal bones of the second row, and also between the bases of the four medial metacarpal bones, can likewise be demonstrated by carrying the knife between the bones, and dividing the ligaments. Articular Surfaces.—The base of the metacarpal bone of the index will be seen to be hollowed out for the reception of the os multangulum minus. On the lateral side it likewise articulates with the os multangulum majus, and on the medial side with the os capitatum. The base of the third metacarpal rests against the os capitatum alone. The base of the meta- carpal bone of the ring finger rests upon the os hamatum, but also articulates slightly with the os capitatum. The fifth metacarpal bone articulates with the os hamatum. Movements of the Metacarpal Bones.—The opposed saddle-shaped surfaces of the os multangulum majus and the metacarpal bone of the thumb allow free movement at this joint. Thus the metacarpal bone of the thumb can be moved—(i) dorso-laterally (extension); (2) volarwards and medially (flexion); (3) medially towards the index (adduction) ; (4) laterally (abduc- tion) ; (5) medially across the palm towards the little finger (opposition) ; (6) a combination of the above-mentioned movements occurring one after the other constitutes circumduction. The muscles which operate on the thumb are—(i) the two special extensors, brevis and longus, and the abductor pollicis longus producing extension ; (2) the flexor pollicis brevis, the oppHDnens pollicis, and the adductor pollicis producing flexion and opposition, two movements which are similar in character ; (3) the abductor pollicis longus and the abductor pollicis brevis producing abduction; (4) the adductor pollicis and the first dorsal interosseous muscle which give rise to adduction. The metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers possess very little power of independent movement. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger, and more especially the metacarpal bone of the little finger, are not so tightly bound to the carpus. When the hand is clenched they both move volarwards. The metacarpal bone of the little finger is provided with an opponens muscle, and has a feeble power of moving volarwards 1 and laterally towards the thumb. Articulationes Metacarpophalangeal (Metacarpo- phalangeal Joints). The slightly cupped base of the first phalanx of each digit articulates with the rounded head of the corresponding ! metacarpal bone, and is held in position by (i) a capsule; I (2) two ligg. collateralia, and (3) by a lig. accessoriuni volarc. Lig. Accessorium Volare (O.T. Anterior Ligament).- 'The volar accessory ligatnent is a dense fibrous plate placed on the volar aspect of the joint. It is firmly attached to the base