INFERIOR EXTREMITY 320 anterior portion of the lateral surface of the medial condyle. It receives one, or sometimes two, strong slips from the posterior horn of the lateral meniscus (Fig. ii8, p. 319). The anterior crucial ligament is tight in extension, and the posterior crucial ligament is tight in flexion of the knee- joint. Menisci (O.T. Semilunar Cartilages).—These are two cres- centic plates of fibro-cartilage which are placed on the condylar surfaces of the tibia. They deepen the surfaces upon which the condyles of the femur roll, and, being movable, they fill up the gaps which would otherwise arise during the movements of the joint. Each meniscus presents two fibrous extremities, or horns, which are attached to the rough intermediate surface on the proximal end of the tibia. They are thick towards the circumference of the joint, but thin away to a fine free concave edge in the opposite direction. Both surfaces are smooth and covered with synovial membrane. They do not cover the entire extent of the condylar surfaces of the tibia. The central parts of the latter, as well as the sloping surfaces of the tubercles of the eminentia intercondyloidea, are free. On raising the cartilages from the surface upon which they rest, distinct impressions similar in shape and extent are seen on the subjacent encrusting cartilage of the tibia. Dissection.—Carefully define the attachments of the fibrous horns of the menisci. The lateral meniscus is usually somewhat thicker around its circumference than the medial meniscus. It forms the segment of a smaller circle, and its horns being fixed to the tibia close together, a very nearly complete circle is formed. The anterior fibrous horn is attached, immediately in front of the intercondylar eminence, to the lateral side of and partly under cover of the attachment of the anterior crucial ligament. The posterior horn is fixed to the summit of the inter- condylar eminence in the interval between the two tubercles. It likewise gives a strong slip to the posterior crucial ligament. The fibular collateral ligament is not in contact with the lateral meniscus. It is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, and the impress of the tendon is left on the cartilage in the form of a faint smooth groove on the posterior part of its lateral border. Posteriorly, its circumfer- ence is attached to the posterior ligament.