ABDOMEN 6o8 the sciatic trunk out of the pelvis, and supplies not only the quadratus femoris but also the inferior gemellus and the hip-joint. The Perforating Cutaneous Nerve springs from the back of the plexus and contains fibres of the second and third sacral nerves. It pierces the sacro-tuberous ligament, winds round the lower border of the glutseus maximus, and supplies the skin over the lower and medial part of that muscle. The Twigs to the Piriformis spring usually from the first and second sacral nerves. The Visceral Branches (white rami communicantes) are derived mainly from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The Coccygeal Plexus.—-This is a small, looped plexus. It is formed by the lower branch of the fourth sacral nerve, the fifth sacral nerve, and the coccygeal nerve. Besides join- > ing with the fifth, the fourth sacral nerve gives branches to the coccygeus and the levator ani, the latter branch being known as the perineal b7-anch of the fourth sacral. It also supplies white rami convmmicantes which join the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic and supply the pelvic viscera. The fifth sacral 7ierve enters the pelvis by piercing the i coccygeus. It communicates with the fourth sacral and the | coccygeal nerves and gives branches to the coccygeus muscle. i The coccygeal nerve also enters the pelvis by piercing the i coccygeus muscle. Having communicated with the fifth I sacral nerve it runs downwards and leaves the pelvis by again i piercing the coccygeus muscle. It ends in the skin in the neighbourhood of the tip of the coccyx. Pelvic Plexuses of the Sympathetic.—It has already been noted that the hypogastric plexus, which lies in front of the last lumbar vertebra, ends below by dividing into the two pelvic plexuses. These are prolonged downwards, one on each side of the rectum. Each pelvic plexus receives numerous branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves and from the pelvic portion of the sympathetic cord of the same side. The points at which these unite with the plexuses are marked by minute ganglia. Prolongations from each pelvic plexus are sent along the various branches of the hypogastric artery of the same side. There are thus formed various secondary plexuses, viz. the ^ vesical plexus associated with the bladder, the seminal vesicles, ^ and the vas deferens ; the hcemori-hoidal plexus distributed to