FOREARM AND HAND 95 the hand a plexus of superficial veins will be seen. In de- fining this, care must be taken of the fine cutaneous twigs from the superficial branch of the radial nerve and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. From the lateral part of the venous plexus the large cephalic vein takes origin, whilst from its medial part springs the basilic vein. Both of these vessels have already been traced along the forearm to their termina- tions. While still upon the dorsum of the hand each com- municates with the rami profundi in the palm of the hand. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves). — Several cutaneous nerves have already been traced to the integument of the forearm, viz. the volar and ulnar branches of the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm to the medial aspect, the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm to the lateral region, and the dorsal cutaneous nerve of the forearm from the n. radialis on the dorsal aspect. Some additional twigs make their appearance by piercing the fascia in the distal third of the forearm. 1. The n. cutaneus palmaris of the n. ulnaris, 'j 2. The n. cutaneus palmaris of the n. medianus, I ,, i 3. The n. cutaneus palmaris of the ramus super- ^ ® aspect. hcialis of the n. radialis, j 1. The ramus dorsal manus of the n. ulnaris, ) .1. , , 2. The ramus superficialis of the n. radialis, Rami Cutanei Palmares (Palmar Cutaneous Nerves).— These are small twigs which supply the skin of the palm. The hvig frotu the ulnar nerve takes origin about the middle of the forearm, but it does not at once pierce the fascia of the forearm. It proceeds distally on the ulnar artery, and becomes superficial immediately proximal to the lig. carpi transversum (anterior annular lig.), and close to the lateral side of the insertion of the flexor carpi ulna/is tendon into the pisiform bone. It is here, therefore, that it must be sought for (Fig. 27, p. 66). The palmar cutaneous branch of the median nerve appears through the deep fascia in the interval between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus muscles, immediately above the wrist. It is continued distally into the palm (Fig. 27, p. 66). The palmar branch of the superficial division of the radial nerve runs close to the lateral border of the distal part of the forearm. It does not spring from the trunk of the