648 ABDOMEN uterine plexus are present in addition to those mentioned in the description of the male pelvis. The tUerine plexus proceeds from the pelvic plexus. It ascends between the layers of the broad ligament, along the uterine artery, and is distributed to both aspects of the uterus. The vaginal plexus is also an offset from the pelvic plexus, and the nerves which compose it are derived mainly from the visceral branches which enter the pelvic plexus from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The ovarian plexus is derived from the aortic and renal plexuses. It accompanies the artery of the same name, and is distributed to the ovary. Dissection.—When the blood-vessels and the visceral nerve plexuses have been examined the pelvic viscera should be removed. The vessels and nerves passing to them must be cut ; the visceral layer of pelvic fascia on the upper surface of the levator ani must be divided, from before backwards, and stripped medially from the upper surface of the muscle. Finally, the rectum must be separated from the upper end of the anal canal, and then the viscera can be removed. When this has been done the structure of the walls of the viscera should be studied. Structure of the Uterus.—The uterus possesses three well-marked coats—a serous or peritoneal, a muscular and a mucous. The serous covering has already been fully studied (p. 623). The muscular part of the wall constitutes its chief bulk. It is composed of involuntary muscular tissue with a considerable admixture of areolar tissue. It is not equally thick throughout and is relatively thin towards the angles or points where the uterine tubes open into the uterus. The mucous membrane which lines the cavity is not of uniform appearance. In the body of the uterus it is smooth and closely bound to the adjacent muscle. In the cervix it presents a striking arrangement, which from its appearance has been termed the arbor vita. This consists of a series of prominent folds or rugre, plicce palmata, arranged in a definite manner. There is a median fold both on the anterior and on the posterior wall of the canal, and secondary folds branch off from each of these and pass obliquely upwards and laterally. The arbor vitaj is better marked on the anterior than on the posterior wall. Between the plicte palmatce the dissector may discover some minute vesicles filled with yellowish fluid; these are the ovula Nahothi. They result from the obstruction of the mouths and the