PELVIS 647 The Veins of the Pelvis.—But little requires to be said beyond what was stated regarding the veins of the male pelvis on p. 602. The pudendal plexus, into which the dorsal vein of the clitoris opens, is smaller than in the male, but is connected in a similar manner with the vesical plexus. A bulky uterine venous plexus is formed on each side of the uterus between the two layers of the broad ligament. This enters into the formation of the parametrium, and from its lower part the blood is drained away by one or more uterine veins which end in the hypogastric vein. A vaginal venous plexus is also formed around the vagina. It is most dense along each lateral border, in the angle between the vesical and the recto-vaginal layers of the pelvic fascia. One or more vaginal veins proceed from its upper end on each side j they end in the hypogastric veins. A pampinifor7n plexus of veins is formed by the veins which issue from the hilus of the ovary. From this plexus, which lies between the layers of the broad ligament, two ovarian veins issue. They accompany the ovarian artery, and ultimately fuse into a single vein which ends in a manner similar to the corresponding internal spermatic vein of the male (P- 542). The Pelvic Lymph Vessels.—The lymph vessels of the bladder and rectum are the same in the female as in the male (see p. 603), but in the female the lymph vessels of the vagina, uterus, uterine tubes, and ovaries have also to be considered. Lymph vessels from the lower part of the vagina pass to the superficial inguinal and sacral lymph glands. From the middle and upper parts of the vagina and from the cervix uteri they pass to the hypogastric and external iliac and the sacral lymph glands. From the body of the uterus they pass to the external iliac and hypogastric lymph glands and along the round ligament to the superficial inguinal lymph glands. The lymph vessels from the upper part of the uterus and the ovary terminate in the lymph glands round the aorta. The Visceral Nerves ok the Pelvis. Very little requires to be added to what has already been said about the visceral nerve plexuses (p. 608). There is no prostatic plexus-, but a vaginal plexus, an ovarian plexus, and a