THE UPPER EXTREMITY 116 stretches transversely across the fronts of the heads of the metacarpal bones. These relations can only be satisfactorily made out by dividing the arch and slitting the slip of fascia in an upward direction. Fascial Compartments of the Palm.—Two weak septa pro- ceed into the palm from the margins of the strong intermediate portion of the palmar aponeurosis. They join a layer of fascia, which is spread out over the interosseous muscles and the deep volar arch, and they thus subdivide the palm into three fascial compartments, viz. an inter mediate, containing the flexor tendons, the lumbrical muscles, the superficial volar arch, and the terminal branches of the median nerve; a medial, enclosing the short muscles of the little finger; and a lateral, enclosing the short muscles of the thumb. Dissection.—Raise the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis. Divide its narrow proximal part, throw it distally, and finally remove it completely. The superficial volar arch is the most superficial of the struc- tures now exposed. Trace the ulnar artery into it, and follow the digital branches which it gives off. The lig. carpi volare which binds the ulnar artery to the front of the transverse carpal ligament may now be removed. Tire median and ulnar nerves must also be dissected. The muscular branches, which the median gives to the muscles of the thenar eminence, are especially liable to injury. They come off in a short, stout stem, almost in a line with the lower margin of the transverse carpal ligament, and at once turn laterally to reach the short muscles of the thumb, to some of which they are distributed. The nerve twigs to the two lateral lumbricals must also be looked for. They spring from the digital branches of the median which go to the lateral side of the index and to the cleft between the index and middle fingers. In order that the digital vessels and nerves may be traced to their distribution the skin must be reflected from the fingers. This can be done by making an incision along the middle of each digit, and turning the integument laterally and medially. As the skin is raised from the borders of the different digits the cutaneous ligaments of the phalanges (Cleland) will come into view. These are fibrous bands, which spring from the edges of the phalanges behind the digital vessels and nerves. They are inserted into the skin so as to form a strong fibrous septum on each side of each finger. They retain the integument in proper position during the different movements of the digits. Arcus Volaris Superficialis (O.T. Superficial Palmar Arch.).—The ulnar artery, when traced into the palm, is found to form the superficial volar arch—an arterial arcade, which lies immediately subjacent to the palmar aponeurosis. The ulnar artery enters the palm by passing in front of the transverse carpal ligament, close to the lateral side of the pisiform bone. A short distance below this it curves laterally across the palm, and, near the middle of the thenar emin-