458 ABDOMEN less complete coverings to the various abdominal viscera, and that its posterior wall was raised into numerous complicated folds. The folds are due to the invagination of the wall of the sac by the adjacent viscera, and the complication of the folds has been produced by changes in form and position of the viscera, and by the fusion and partial disappearance of some of the primitive folds. The portion of the peritoneum which lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall is called parietal peritoneum. The portion which covers the viscera is termed “ visceral peritoneu7nP and the folds which connect the viscera with each other or with the wall of the abdomen are defined as omenta, mesenteries, and ligaments. The term mesentery is generally applied to folds of peri- toneum which connect portions of the alimentary canal with the posterior wall of the abdomen. The term “ omentum ” has usually been applied, in English terminology, to folds of peritoneum which connect the stomach with other viscera, and the term ligament was applied to any fold which did not fall into either of the two first divisions. Now, however, it is becoming customary to speak of folds and portions of folds which connect the stomach to adjacent viscera as ligaments; thus the lesser omentum is said to consist of the hepato-gastric and the hepato-duodenal ligaments, the two terms being applied respectively to the parts which connect the liver to the stomach and the liver to the duodenum. The gastro-lienal omentum becomes the gastro-lienal ligament, and the greater omentum is sometimes spoken of as the gastro-colic ligament. The relations of the layers of the visceral and parietal peritoneum to each other, and the relations of the layers which bound the omental bursa to those which limit the cavity of the great sac to each other, can be easily followed in Figs. 171, 172, 173, and 174. The dissector should study the figures and confirm their accuracy by following the peritoneum at the levels, and in the planes indicated in them. Dissection.—After examining the various parts of the peritoneal cavity, and the different folds of the peritoneal membrane, the dissector should remove the peritoneum of the posterior wall of the omental bursa, above the level of the root of the transverse meso-colon. Commence immediately above the line of attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the lower border of the pancreas, which can be seen through the thin peritoneum, and work upwards, taking care not to injure either the pancreas itself or