3S6 ABDOMEN of the pudendal nerve. It supplies twigs to the skin, to the muscles of the perineum, and to the bulb of the penis. The cutaneous scrotal branches have already been followed out. Muscular tivigs, occupying a deeper plane, may be traced to each of the three superficial perineal muscles and to the levator ani, whilst a few minute offsets pierce the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm to supply the deep transversus perinei muscle. The 7ierve to the bulb is a small branch which breaks up into filaments which enter the hinder part of the corpus cavernosum urethrae. Perineal Triangles.—If the superficial perineal muscles be now examined, in regard to the relations which they hold to each other, the student will see that they constitute the boundaries of a small triangular space upon each side of the middle line. The base of the triangle is formed by the superficial transversus perinei; laterally it is limited by the ischio-cavernosus, and medially by the bulbo-cavernosus. Let the student now place the point of his finger within this space and press upwards and backwards. He will perceive that it rests upon a strong resisting membrane. This is the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (O.T. triangular ligament), which therefore forms the roof of the space. Dissection.—To bring the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm fully into view, it is necessary in the first place to remove the super- ficial perineal muscles. When this is done the three divisions of the root of the penis are exposed to view, and their manner of attachment (which has already been described, p. 354) can be studied. Detach, in the next place, the left crus of the penis from the side of the pubic arch, and turn it aside. This must be effected with care, so as not to destroy the attach- ment of the ligament to the side of the pubic arch, or to injure the pudendal artery and dorsal nerve of the penis, which pierce the anterior part of the ligament. Lower Fascia of the Urogenital Diaphragm (O.T. Super- ficial Layer of the Triangular Ligament).—This is now seen to be a strong aponeurotic membrane which stretches across the pubic arch. It must be regarded as lying in the same morphological plane as the bony and ligamentous wall of the pelvis, and as completing the pelvic wall in front, much in the same manner as the obturator membrane fills up the gap formed by the obturator foramen. Upon each side the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm is attached to the margins of the rami of the pubis and ischium. Its base is somewhat indefinite, and has already been seen to blend along the posterior border of the super-