575 PELVIS at the neck of the bladder and ends on the glans penis. Its average length is about eight or nine inches (220-225 mrn-)- It is customary to divide the canal into three parts, from the different characters of the structures which it traverses. The first part, pars prosiatica urethrcz^ is contained within the substance of the prostate gland; the second part, pars membranacea urethra^ extends from the prostate to the bulb of the corpus cavernosum urethree, and is surrounded, between the layers of the uro-genital diaphragm, by the fibres of the sphincter muscle of the membranous urethra; the third part, pars cavernosa urethrce^ traverses the entire length of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. Pars Prostatica Urethrae (Prostatic Portion of the Urethra).—This part of the urethra is about one inch and a quarter in length (31 mm.). It is fusiform, being wider in the middle than at either its commencement or its termina- tion. It traverses the prostate in front of its so-called middle lobe, and takes a very nearly vertical course through its substance. It is the widest, and at the same time the most dilatable part of the canal. In connection with the posterior wall or floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra there are certain important features to be noted. The mucous membrane along the median plane is raised into a prominent ridge called the crista urethrce or urethral crest. This commences a short distance below the orifice of the urethra in the bladder, and extends downwards for about three-quarters of an inch. At first it increases gradually in height, until it forms a prominent eminence, the colliculus seminalis or seminal hillock, then its height suddenly diminishes, and, finally, the ridge fades away into the membranous part of the canal. On each side of the urethral crest the floor of the urethra is hollowed out into a longi- tudinal depression, termed the prostatic sinus, into which the numerous prostatic ducts open. These may be rendered evident by squeezing the prostate, when fluid will be found to exude into the sinuses through the ducts. A close inspection of the floor of the urethra, above the crista, will reveal the apertures of the ducts of the so-called middle lobe of the prostate. Immediately below the seminal hillock the mucous membrane dips backwards and upwards, forming a small cul- de-sac behind the middle lobe of the prostate. This is the