432 ABDOMEN may also chance that the bladder is full, in which case its apex will be observed projecting above the pubes. Lastly, in pregnant females the gravid uterus will be visible, reaching a height which corresponds with the period of gestation. Raise the great omentum and turn it upwards over the lower margin of the thorax. By this proceeding the coils of the small intestine are exposed and a part of the great intestine, which extends across the cavity of the abdomen, will be seen attached to the posterior part of the great omentum. This is the transverse colon. Note that all the viscera which have been seen are covered by a smooth glistening membrane, the peritoneum. This membrane forms the immediate boundary of a space, the perito7ieal cavity, which has been opened into by the reflection of the anterior wall of the abdomen. The dissector should recognise that under normal circumstances the peritoneal cavity is merely a potential cavity, and that it only becomes an actual cavity when the surgeon or dissector pulls its walls apart in opening into it, or when its walls are forced apart by abnormal collections of fluid or gas. Replace the great omentum and commence a fuller consideration of the general position, relations, and connec- tions of the viscera by examining the general position of the liver. Hepar (The Liver).—The liver is the large, reddish-brown organ which occupies a large part of the upper portion of the abdomen, where it lies in the epigastric and both hypochon- driac regions. A very large portion of its surface is in contact with the diaphragm which separates it from the contents of the lower part of the thorax. The lower border of its anterior surface is seen crossing the subcostal angle from above downwards and to the right, and continuing to the right either along or immediately below the right costal arch. Opposite the tip of the ninth right costal cartilage the fundus of the gall- bladder projects from beneath it. Pass the hand over its anterior and upper surfaces and note that they are connected to the anterior abdominal wall and to the diaphragm re- spectively, by a fold of the peritoneal lining of the abdomen which is called the falciform ligament. Raise the lower margin of the liver and note that the lower and posterior surfaces of the liver are connected to the stomach by a fold of peritoneum called the small omentum.