ABDOMEN 482 leave the vessels and effect a series of communications, with each other, in the intervals between the arteries. The superior mesenteric plexus is an offshoot from the coeliac plexus^ and it distributes twigs to the jejunum, ileum, and to the right half of the great intestine. Lymphoglandulse Mesentericse. — The mesenteric lymph glands are very numerous, indeed considerably over a hundred in number. In health they rarely attain a size greater than that of a small bean or a pea, and they are scattered between the two layers of the mesentery. The larger glands lie along the superior mesenteric artery, whilst the others are placed in the intervals between its branches. It should be noted that they are most numerous opposite the jejunum, and that the mesentery in the immediate vicinity of the intestine is free from them. A few lymph glands will also be noticed in connection with the large intestine. The lacteal vessels enter the mesentery from the walls of the intestine in enormous numbers. As they proceed up- wards they pass through the succession of glands which they meet, and, greatly reduced in number although considerably enlarged in calibre, they usually terminate, near the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, in one or perhaps more trunks which pour their contents into the cisterna chyli of the thoracic duct. Arteria Mesenterica Inferior.—The inferior mesenteric artery, considerably smaller than the superior mesenteric, springs from the left side of the front of the abdominal aorta, about an inch and a half above its termination. It descends, with a slight inclination to the left, to the brim of the pelvis, there it crosses to the left common iliac artery and becomes the superior hcE77iorrhoidal which descends into the pelvis. Before it reaches the left common iliac artery it gives off the left colic and the sigmoid branches. The Arteria Colica Sinistra.—The left colic artery runs to the left and divides into two branches, of which one ascends in front of the lower part of the left kidney to the transverse meso-colon where it inosculates with the middle colic, whilst the other descends behind the peritoneum of the posterior wall of the abdomen, to unite with the superior sigmoid artery. P'rom the arches thus formed twigs are supplied to the transverse colon, the left colic flexure, and