ABDOMEN 376 The perineal nerve gives off—(i) the posterior labial branches to the skin covering the labium majus: they correspond with the posterior scrotal nerves in the male; (2) muscular twigs to all the perineal muscles; and (3) a branch to the bulb of the vagina. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris gives a twig to the corpus cavernosum, and runs forwards with the artery of the same name between the crura to reach the dorsum of the clitoris. Dorsal Vessels and Nerves of the Clitoris. — On the dorsum of the clitoris a little dissection will display the dorsal vein occupying the groove in the middle line, with a dorsal artery and nerve lying upon each side of it. The arteries and nerves should be traced forwards to their distribution in the glans. The dorsal vein of the clitoris takes origin in the glans. As it proceeds backwards it receives certain superficial veins, and also tributaries from the corpus cavernosum clitoridis. At the root of the clitoris it passes between the transverse ligament of the pelvis and the arcuate ligament of the pubes, and is continued backwards into the pelvis, to join the plexus of veins on the wall of the vagina in the region of the neck of the bladder. It communicates also with the internal pudendal vein. ABDOMINAL WALL. After the dissection of the perineum is completed, the body is placed upon its back, with blocks under the thorax and pelvis, and the dissectors of the abdomen begin the dissec- tion of the abdominal wall (Fig. 141). External Anatomy.—It is well, however, before proceeding to the actual dissection of the part, that some attention should be paid to the general configuration and bony prominences of the region. If the subject is obese the abdomen presents a smooth, rounded, and protuberant appearance; if, on the other hand, it is spare, the abdominal wall is depressed, and the lower margin of the thorax above, and the pubes, crest of the ilium, and the inguinal ligaments below, stand out in marked relief. In the middle line the student will notice a linear depression, extending downwards towards the symphysis. This corresponds with the linea alba or the interval between