173 THE THIGH thinning indicates the position of the lateral part of the margo falciformis, which should be defined by the edge of the knife and then traced proximally and medially into the cornu superius. When the lateral part of the margo falciformis is displayed the dissector should return to the cornu inferius and trace it to its fusion with the fascia pectinea; then he should clear away the superficial fascia from the surface of the latter. As he does this he will recognise that, above the level of the cornu inferius, the fascia pectinea does not pass across the front of the femoral vessels to join the iliac portion of the deep fascia, but, on the contrary, it dips posterior to the femoral vessels to become continuous with the deep intermuscular septa. In a sense, therefore, the margo falciformis forms the medial free margin of the iliac part of the fascia lata (see Fig. 65). In reality, however, a thinner layer of fascia is continued from this margin across the front of the sheath of the femoral vessels to join the fascia pectinea. This thinner layer of fascia which closes the fossa is known as the fascia cribrosa, because it is perforated by the great saphenous vein and by the efterent vessels of the inguinal and subinguinal lymph glands on their way to join the deep subinguinal lymph glands. When the margins of the fossa ovalis have been displayed, the inguinal and subinguinal lymph glands and the fascia cribrosa should be removed, care being taken, during the removal of the latter, to avoid injury to the femoral sheath which lies subjacent to them. Fossa Ovalis (O.T. Saphenous Opening).—This is the aperture in the deep fascia through which the great saphenous vein passes to its junction with the femoral vein. A thin fascia, called the fascia cribrosa, is spread over the opening. Difference of opinion exists as to what the fascia cribrosa really is. It is regarded by some as being a part of the superficial fascia, but it is more correct to look upon it as being a thin layer of fascia lata carried over the opening, or, in other words, a prolongation medially of the lateral margin of the opening. The fossa ovalis is of special importance, because it is the opening through which femoral hernia makes its way to the surface. It is oval in shape and not more than half an inch in width; but it is at least one and a half inches long. Its medial boundary, which is formed by the receding fascia pectinea, lies on a deeper plane than the lateral boundary. The lateral boundary or margo falciformis is crescentic. It is formed by the iliac portion of the fascia lata. The cor7iu tnfenus of the falciform edge curves medially, distal to the proximal end of the great saphenous vein, to join the fascia pectinea. The cornu superius (sometimes called Hey’s liga- ment), not so well defined, sweeps medially, anterior to the proximal part of the femoral sheath, and joins the front of the lig. lacunare (O.T. Gimbernat’s ligament) (Fig. 65).