158 THE UPPER EXTREMITY discus articularis to the distal end of the ulna. In this movement the discus articularis moves with the radius, and travels dorsally on the distal end of the ulna in supination, and towards the volar surface in pronation. But the question may be asked, does the ulna move during pronation and supination ? When the elbow-joint is extended to its fullest extent the ulna remains almost immovable. When, however, pronation and supination are conducted in the semi-flexed limb, the ulna does move. A small degree of lateral movement at the elbow-joint is allowed, and the distal end of the ulna during pronation is carried slightly dorsally and laterally, and in the reverse direction during supination. The tnuscles which are chiefly concerned in producing supinalion of the forearm are—the biceps brachii, the brachio-radialis, and the supinator. The biceps brachii, from its insertion into the dorsal part of the tuberosity of the radius, is placed in a very favourable position, in so far as its supinat- ing action is concerned. The muscles which act as pj-onators of the limb are —the pronator teres, the pronator quadratus, and, to a certain extent, the flexor carpi radialis. The pronator teres, from its insertion into the point of maximum lateral curvature of radius, can exercise its pronating action to great advantage. The balance of power is in favour of the supinators, and this is due to the preponderating influence of the biceps. Dissection.—The annular ligament should be cut through, and the oblique cord and the membrana interossea should be divided proximo- distal ly. By drawing the radius laterally and opening the capsule of the distal radio-ulnar joint, the proximal surface of the discus articularis of the wrist will be displayed and its attachments more fully appreciated. Articulationes Carpea; (Carpal Joints). In the carpus two joints are recognised— 1. Articulatio ossis pisiformis. 2. Articulatio intercarpea. Pisiform Joint.—The pisiform bone articulates with the volar surface of the os triquetrum to which it is attached by a capsular ligament. The cavity of the pisiform joint is quite distinct from those of the adjacent joints. The dissector has previously noted that the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is inserted into the pisiform bone, and as the capsular ligament would be quite incapable by itself of withstanding the strain to which this muscle subjects the articulation, certain accessory bands are provided w’hich anchor the pisiform firmly in place—they are the piso-hamate and the piso metacarpal bands. The former passes from the distal end of the pisiform to the hook of the os hamatum, and the latter attaches the pisiform to the proximal ends of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones.