261 THE LEG tion of the sural nerve, the superficial peroneal nerve furnishes twigs to the two margins of each of the toes (Fig. 98, p. 269). Very frequently the distribution of the superficial peroneal nerve is more restricted, and in these cases the lateral dorsal cutaneous nerve will, in all probability, be found to supply the lateral two and a half toes. The nervus peromcus profundus (O.T. miterior tibial nerve), or rather its medial terminal branch, pierces the deep fascia on the dorsum of the foot in the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones. It receives a communicating branch from the medial dorsal cutaneous nerve, and ends by dividing into two twigs, which go to supply the adjacent margins of the great toe and the second toe. Deep Fascia.—The fatty superficial fascia should be re- moved in order that the deep fascia may be displayed. This aponeurosis does not form a complete investment for the leg. It is absent over the medial area of the tibia, and is attached to the anterior and medial borders of that bone. It is also absent over the triangular subcutaneous surface on the distal part of the fibula, being attached to the ridges which limit that area anteriorly and posteriorly. It is not equally dense throughout. In the proximal part of the anterior crural region it is thick and strong, but it thins as it is traced distally, and on the dorsum of the foot it becomes exceedingly fine. Its great strength in the proximal part of the anterior crural region is due to the fact that there it gives origin to subjacent muscles. In the neighbourhood of the ankle-joint it forms the thickened bands which retain the tendons in position during the action of the muscles. Four of these may be examined at this stage, viz. the lig. transversum cruris, the lig. cruciatum cruris, and the superior and in- ferior retinacula, of the peroneal muscles.^ The ligamentum transversum cruris (O.T. upper part of anterior annular ligament) is a strong, broad band which stretches across the front of the leg immediately proximal to the ankle-joint. By one extremity it is attached to the fibula, and by the other to the tibia. The lig. cruciatum cruris (O.^F. lower part anterior annular liga?nent) is placed over the ankle- joint. Laterally it presents the appearance of a narrow, well- ’ In the old terminology the first two bands were respectively the upper and lower parts of the anterior anmilar ligament of the ankie, and the last two were included under the term external annular ligament. 1—17 h