265 THE LEG be carried proximally along the plane of this septum. By drawing aside the peromeus tertius muscle, the perforating branch of the peroneal artery will be seen piercing the interosseous membrane. It is a small artery which descends upon the distal end of the fibula. As the structures in the anterior crural compartment are being exposed and cleaned, the dissector should, at the same time, carry on the dissection of the dorsum of the foot. There the tendons of the muscles on the front of the leg must be followed to their insertions, and the extensor digitorum brevis vmscle defined. The dorsalis pedis arterj'axid deep pero?teal nerve should also be followed, and their branches traced to their various destinations. M. Tibialis Anterior (O.T. Tibialis Anticus).—The tibialis anterior is a powerful muscle, which takes origin from the distal part of the lateral condyle of the tibia, and from the proximal half of the lateral surface of its body (Fig. 96, p. 264). It likewise derives many fibres from the deep fascia 'which covers it, from the fascial septum between it and the extensor digitorum longus and the portion of the interosseous membrane on which it rests. In other words, it springs from the structures which form the walls of the medial portion of the osteo-fascial compartment in which it lies.^ A strong tendon issues from its fleshy belly in the distal third of the leg, and this reaches the dorsum of the foot by passing through both the transverse and cruciate ligaments. On the foot it inclines medially, and, turning round the medial margin, gains insertion by two slips into the medial and distal part of the medial cuneiform bone, and into the adjoin- ing part of the base of the first metatarsal bone. The tibialis anterior is supplied by the deep peroneal nerve. M. Extensor Digitorum Longus.—This muscle arise.s, for the most part, from the structures which form the lateral portion of the wall of the anterior crural region. Thus it springs from the distal part of the lateral condyle of the tibia, from the head of the fibula, and from the proximal three-fourths of the anterior part of the medial surface of the body of the fibula (Fig. 96, p. 264). It also takes origin from a small portion of the proximal part of the interosseous membrane, the deep investing fascia of the leg, the anterior peroneal septum, and the inter-muscular septum which dips ’ To understand the attachments of the muscles of the leg, it is necessary to bear in mind that the interosseous membrane, which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the leg, and thus extends the surface of origin for these muscles, is attached to the interosseous crest of the tibia [i.e. between its lateral and posterior surfaces) and to the interosseous crest of the fibula. The interosseous crest of the fibula traverses the medial surface, and divides it into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior part gives origin to the extensor muscles and the posterior part to the flexor muscles.