INFERIOR EXTREMITY 274 M. Peronaeus Longus.—The peron^us longus muscle arises from the head and from the lateral surface of the shaft of the fibula in its proximal two-thirds. A surface of origin is also afforded to it by the fascia which covers it, and by the two peroneal intermuscular septa. It ends, a short distance proximal to the ankle, in a long tendon, which is continued distally posterior to the lateral malleolus. Gaining the lateral margin of the foot, it proceeds forwards on the lateral surface of the calcaneus to the groove on the plantar surface of the cuboid, which conducts it transversely into the sole. Its insertion will be examined at a later period. It is supplied by the superficial peroneal nerve (O.T. musculo cutaneous'). M. Peronaeus Brevis.—This muscle arises from the distal two-thirds of the lateral surface of the body of the fibula, distal and anterior to the peronaeus longus, and from the peroneal intermuscular septum on either side of it. Its tendon descends, posterior to the lateral malleolus, and then turns forwards on the lateral surface of the calcaneus to gain an insertion into the projecting base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe.^ On the posterior surface of the lateral malleolus the tendon of the peronaeus brevis lies directly under cover of the tendon of the peronaeus longus, and therefore in contact with the bone. On the lateral surface of the calcaneus the tendon of the peronaeus brevis is placed more proxirnally than that of its fellow muscle. As the tendons of the two peronei muscles proceed distally, in the hollow between the lateral malleolus and the posterior prominence of the calcaneus, they are held in place by the superior peroneal retinaculum., and their movements are facilitated by the presence of a common mucous sheath. On the lateral surface of the calcaneus the tendons are retained in position by the mferiorperoneal retinaculum, but each tendon lies in a separate compartment surrounded by its own special i prolongation of the mucous sheath. The peroneal tubercle I of the calcaneus intervenes between these two sheaths. The ' peronreus brevis is supplied by the superficialperojieal na-ve. N. Peronaeus Communis (O.T. External Popliteal Nerve). ( —This nerve has previously been traced as far as the neck of c the fibula. At this point it disappears from view by passing | 1 A small tendinous slip will, as a general rule, be observed to proceed j: forwards from the tendon of the peronreus brevis to join the tendon of the long i e.xtensor on the dorsum of the little toe. This is the peroncrus quinti digiti-