538 ABDOMEN Centrum Tendineum (Central Tendon).—The central tendon is exceedingly strong. It is composed of tendinous bundles running in different directions, and closely woven together so as to give it a plaited appearance. This is well seen by an inspection of its abdominal surface. In shape the central tendon resembles a trefoil leaf, of which the right lobe is the largest, and the left lobe the smallest. Upon all sides it is surrounded by muscular fibres. Those which spring from the sternum are much the shortest. Foramina of the Diaphragm.—The continuity of the diaphragm is broken by three large openings, and by some smaller apertures’or fissures for the passage of the splanchnic nerves, and the vena hemiazygos. The three main open- ings receive the names of the most important objects which they transmit. They are— 1. The aortic. 2. The vena caval. 3. The oesophageal. Hiatus Aorticus {the aortic .opening is in the medial plane in front of the first lumbar vertebra, and between the crura of the diaphragm. It is bounded in front by the fibrous band which arches across the middle line and connects the tendinous portions of the two crura. The structures which pass through the aortic opening are—(i) the aorta, (2) the thoracic duct, and (3) the vena azygos major—in this order from left to right. Foramen Vence Cavce {the vena caval opening) is at a higher level, being situated opposite the disc between the eighth and the ninth dorsal vertebrae, in front and slightly to the right of the aortic opening. It is placed in the back part of the central tendon at the junction between its middle and right lobes. Its form is somewhat quadrangular, and its margins are prolonged upon the walls of the vena cava as it passes through it. The contraction of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm will therefore tend to increase the size of this opening and the calibre of the vein which it holds. In addition to the vena cava, one or two minute twigs from the right phrenic nerve may be transmitted through the vena caval opening. Hiatus (Esophageus {the oesophageal opening) is an oval or elliptical foramen in the muscular part of the diaphragm. It lies in front and slightly to the left of the aortic aperture.