INFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 1 6 6. 7- Nerves Glutceus maximus ; (and after this has been reflected). Three bursa; auicosa'. The glutasus medius and minimus. The two gemelli muscles and the tendon of the obturator internus. Tendon of the obturator externus. Proximal border of the adductor magnus. The origin of the hamstrings from the tuber ischiadicuni. The proximal part of the vastus lateralis. The ligamentum sacro-tuberosum. (O.T. great sciatic lig.). The superior glutaal artery. The inferior glutreal artery (O.T. sciatic). The internal pudendal artery. The medial circumflex artery. ^Superior glutreal. Sciatic. Posterior femoral cutaneous. Pudendal. Nerve to m. obturator internus. Nerve to m. quadratus femoris. Inferior glutaeal. Supposing that two days are allowed for the above dissection, the first day’s work should consist—(i) in the dissection of the parts superficial to the glutreus maximus ; (2) in the cleaning and reflecting of this muscle ; (3) in tracing and defining the various nerves and blood-vessels which enter its deep surface. On the second day the parts which are exposed by the reflection of the gluta;us maximus should be dissected. Surface Anatomy.—Before the skin is reflected the surface markings of the gluteal region require examination. On each side the prominence of the nates forms a round, smooth elevation. Inferiorly the nates are separated, in the middle line, by a deep fissure—the natal cleft. This cleft, if traced upwards, almost disappears over the prominence formed by the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum. The crest of the ilium can be felt along its whole length, and in the well-formed male its position is indicated by a groove—the iliac furrow. Traced anteriorly the crest terminates in the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; traced posteriorly it ends in the posterior superior spine of the ilium. The position of the latter is indicated by a faint depression or dimple which lies on a level with the second spine of the sacrum, and it corresponds with the middle of the sacro- iliac articulation. The prominence of the nates is chiefly formed by the glutasus maximus muscle, covered by a thick layer of fat. A deep transverse groove, produced by a fold of skin and fascia, limits the gluteal elevation below. This is called the gluteal sulcus, and is sometimes said to correspond with the distal border of the glutteus maximus muscle. It