GLUT/EAL REGION 223 of the lumbar fascia, at the attachment of the latter to the crest of the ilium. From this extensive origin the coarse fasciculi of the muscle proceed obliquely distally and anteriorly towards the proximal portion of the femur, but only a comparatively small proportion of them receive direct insertion into that bone. The greater part of the muscle is inserted into the fascia lata. To be more precise, we may say that the whole of the fibres belonging to the proximal half of the muscle, and the superficial stratum of fibres of the distal half of the muscle, are inserted into the fascia lata. The deeper fibres of the distal half of the muscle, however, are directly attached to the glutccal tuberosity on the back of the femur (t.e. the ridge which extends from the greater trochanter to the linea aspera). (Fig. 78, p. 209.) The glutseus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteeal nerve. Reflection of the Glutaeus Maximus.—This is by no means an easy dissection. It is best to detach the muscle from its origin and throw it distally towards its insertion. It should be dissected completely away from the various surfaces from which it arises. By this means the general outline of the pelvis becomes more apparent, and the dissector obtains distinct bony landmarks which are most useful in enabling him to localise the various structures he is expected to expose. Let us suppose we are dealing with the left lower limb. As a preliminary step, the two borders of the muscle should be freed and the left hand gently insinuated under the fleshy mass. The muscle must, in the first instance, be detached from the ilium. When the surface on the dorsum ilii from which it springs is cleared the upper margin of the great sciatic notch is reached. Here the dissector must proceed with caution, because through this notch pass the glutreal vessels, and their branches enter the deep surface of the glutanis maximus muscle. When these are secured the muscle must be detached from the side of the sacrum, then the piriformis muscle, emerging from under cover of the sacrum, comes into sight. The muscular fibres may now be raised from the surface of the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum and separated from the side of the coccyx. In doing this, care should be taken to preserve the three sacral cutaneous nerves intact, in order that they may be sub- sequently traced to their origins. As the surface of the ligamentum sacro- tuberosum is gradually laid bare, a number of small arteries (the coccygeal branches of the inferior glutieal artery) will be seen piercing it and immediately sinking into the substance of the gluta’us maximus. These cannot be retained. It is necessary to sever them in order that the muscle may be freed. The perforating branch of the fourth sacral nerve, which winds round the distal border of the glutseus maximus near the coccyx, must also be remembered and traced to the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum which it will be seen to pierce. rhe gluUcus maximus is now completely separated from the parts from which it arises, but it cannot be thrown distally towards its insertion. It is still tied to its place by the blood-vessels and nerves which enter its deep surface. These are (i) the branches of the superficial division of the superior glutieal artery which appear at the upper border of the piriformis ;