44 THE UPPER EXTREMITY the teres major, then it is folded round its distal border, and finally it is inserted in front of it. To this peculiar relation- ship of the two muscles is due the full, rounded appearance of the posterior axillary fold. The latissimus dorsi is supplied by the thoracodorsal nerve. It is an adductor, retractor, and medial rotator of the upper extremity. Two Intermuscular Spaces.—A triangular space mapped out by the distal border of the trapezius, the proximal border of the latissimus dorsi, and the base of the scapula, will now be noticed (Fig. 22, p. 53). Within these limits a small portion of the rhomboideus major can be seen, and also a varying amount of the wall of the thorax—a part corresponding to the sixth intercostal space and the borders of the ribs which bound it above and below. It is well to note that this is the only part of the thoracic parietes on the posterior aspect of the trunk which is uncovered by muscles. Further, between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi will generally be observed to overlap the posterior border of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall. Sometimes, however, a narrow triangular interval exists between the two muscles, in which is seen a small part of the internal oblique muscle. This space is termed the trigonum lumbale {Fetiti) (Fig. 17, p. 39). Reflection of the Trapezius.—On the second day the dissector should begin by reflecting the trapezius, working, if possible, in conjunction with the dissector of the head and neck. Divide the muscle about two inches from the spines of the vertebrae, and throw it laterally towards its insertion. The trapezius is very thin at its origin, and the greatest care must therefore be taken not to injure the subjacent rhomboid muscles. The small bursa between the tendon of insertion of the lower part of the trapezius and the triangular root of the spine of the scapula must not be overlooked. Nerves and Vessels of Supply to the Trapezius.—A dis- section of the deep surface of the reflected muscle will reveal the following structures :— a. The accessory nerve. b. Two or three nerves from the cervical plexus. c. The ascending branch of the transverse cervical artery. These constitute the nervous and vascular supply of the trapezius. The nerves have already been displayed by the dissector of