4o6 ABDOMEN These are the two terminal branches of the internal mam- mary. The superior epigastric be found behind the rectus muscle and within the upper part of its sheath. It gives twigs to the rectus, and anastomoses with the inferior epi- gastric and the intercostal arteries. The musculo-phre7iic can only be seen by reflecting the transversus abdominis from the ribs. It will be found at the level of the eighth rib. From this it proceeds downwards along the attachment of the diaphragm, to the last intercostal space. It gives branches to the diaphragm and others (anterior intercostalis), which enter some of the lower inter- costal spaces. Dissection.—When the transversalis fascia is reflected the only layers which intervene between the dissector and the abdominal cavity are the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue and the parietal peritoneum. If the subject be a male, now is the best time for the student to examine the constitution of the scrotum, spermatic cord, and testis. This can only be done at present on the right side, as the parts on the opposite side must be kept in situ for the study of hernia. After that study has been made the dissection can be repeated on the left side. Scrotum.—This is a pendulous purse-like arrangement of the skin and superficial fascia for the lodgment of the testes. The skin composing it is of a dark colour and rugose, and is traversed, along the middle line, by a mediati raphe or ridge, an indication of its bilateral character. The superficial fascia possesses certain characters peculiar to itself. It has a ruddy colour, and is totally devoid of fat. The ruddy tint is due to the presence of involuntary muscular fibres, which take the place of the fat and constitute what is called the dartos muscle. The rugosity of the scrotal skin is maintained by these muscular fibres. But, further, the superficial fascia forms an imperfect septum or partition, which divides the interior of the scrotum into two chambers —one for each testis. These points in connection with the construction of the scrotum have all, to a certain degree, been noted in the dissection of the perineum. But these two scrotal tunics are not the only coverings of the testis. Each constituent of the abdominal wall has been seen to contribute an investment to the spermatic cord, and these in turn are continued down so as to clothe the testis. Presuming, then, that the skin and superficial fascia are reflected, the testis and cord within the scrotum will still be found to be invested by