PELVIS 557 space, and the rectum and pelvic colon the posterior part. The difference is to be found in the generative organs and their blood-vessels. It is necessary, therefore, to describe the male and the female pelvis separately. Male Pelvis. The male pelvis contains the following structures ;— f The rectum and the pelvic colon. ^ The bladder, with the lower portions of the ureters, V the prostate, and the prostatic part of the urethra. V The ducti deferentes and the vesiculae seminales. * I The hypogastric vessels and their branches and I tributaries. I The superior hfemorrhoidal vessels. I Venous plexuses associated with the viscera. 1 The pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic system and their offshoots. I The obturator nerves. f The extraperitoneal fat. I The pelvic part of the peritoneum. The following structures lie between the pelvic fascia and the bony and muscular strata of the pelvic wall:— ( The middle sacral vessels. Blood- Vessels. I The parietal branches of the hypogastric vessels [ after they have pierced the fascia. Nerves ^ sacral and sacro-coccygeal plexuses. I The pelvic parts of the sympathetic cords. General Position of the Viscera.—The pelvic colon and the rectum occupy the back part of the cavity, the colon extending in flexuous curves from the left margin of the pelvic inlet to the middle of the third piece of the sacrum, where it becomes the rectum. The rectum follows the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, and runs forwards to the base of the bladder. The bladder lies in the front part of the cavity behind the pubic bones, and in front of the rectum. The seminal vesicles lie in a plane between the bladder and the rectum, and the ducti deferentes (O.T. vasa deferentia)., having crossed the brim, behind the origins of the inferior epigastric arteries, run downwards and backwards, and then turn medially, across the ureters, to gain the ba.se of the bladder ' Strictly speaking, the Ijladcler, the prostate, the seminal vesicles, and the lower parts of the rectum, ducti deferentes and ureters arc not in the pelvis, for they are embedded in the pelvic fascia and therefore lie in the pelvic wall. Viscera. Blood- Vessels. Nerves. Other Structures.