542 ABDOMEN breaks up into three branches, which enter the hilus, and pass deeply into the renal sinus. It is overlapped by the accompanying vein. The right artery is placed at a slightly lower level than the left, and passes behind the. inferior vena cava. At the hilus two of the terminal branches as a rule lie between the renal vein and the pelvis of the ureter, whilst the third enters the sinus behind the pelvis of the ureter. In the renal sinus the three terminal branches break up into numerous smaller branches, which penetrate the kidney substance in the intervals between the renal papillae (Fig. 209, p. 533). The renal artery gives a small branch—the mferior suprarenal —to the suprarenal gland, and also numerous fine twigs to the connective tissue around the kidney. The renal veins join the inferior vena cava. The vein of the left side is the longer of the two. It lies behind the pancreas and crosses in front of the aorta. It receives a tributary from the left suprarenal gland; it is also joined by the left internal spermatic or ovarian vein. Arteriae Spermaticae Internae (O.T. Spermatic Arteries).— These are two long slender vessels which spring from the front of the abdominal aorta, a short way below the renal arteries. Diverging from each other, each artery passes obliquely downwards and laterally behind the peritoneum, to the abdominal inguinal ring, where it joins the other factors of the spermatic cord. As it descends it rests upon the psoas magnus, and crosses anterior to the ureter and the lower end of the external iliac artery. On the right side the internal spermatic artery passes in front of the vena cava inferior and behind the terminal part of the ileum. On the left side it proceeds downwards behind the iliac colon (Fig. 184). In the female the corresponding arteries go to the ovaries, and are consequently termed the ovariati aiieries. Within the abdomen proper they have the same relations as the spermatic arteries except that they cross the upper ends of the external iliac arteries. In the dissection of the female pelvis they will be followed to their destination. The right internal spermatic vein joins the inferior vena cava directly, whilst the left vein terminates in the left renal vein, 'rhe ovarian veins end in the same manner. Arteriae Lumbales (Lumbar Arteries).—Four in number on each side, they spring from the posterior aspect of the abdominal aorta, in series with the intercostal arteries. At