FRONT OF THE ARM 73 cords of the brachial plexus, with the exception of the axillary (circumflex), will be found for some part of their course in this region. The radial nerve (musculo-spiral), it is true, almost at once proceeds to the back of the limb, but it again comes to the front, and may be found in the lower part of the lateral side of the arm, by separating the origins of the brachioradialis and extensor carpi radialis longus from the brachialis, and dissecting deeply in the interval between them. Dissection.—In carrying out this somewhat extensive dissection, the main object of the dissector should be to keep the brachial artery as un- disturbed as possible until he has satisfied himself as to its relations. He is therefore, in the first instance, advised to clean only those parts of the muscles which are in immediate relationship to the vessel and its branches. The divided brachial nerves, with the axillary artery and vein, should be arranged in proper order, and then tied to a small piece of wood about inches long \e.g. a piece of a penholder), held transversely. By means of a loop of string this can then be fastened to the coracoid process. By this device the dissection of the arm will be greatly facilitated. The dissection of the entire length of the brachial artery should be carried out at one and the same time, and its termination in the radial and ulnar arteries should be defined. Arteria Brachialis (Brachial Artery) is the direct continua- tion of the axillary artery; it begins, therefore, at the distal border of the teres major, and it passes distally and slightly laterally to the cubital fossa where, at the level of the neck of the radius, it divides into its two terminal branches—the radial and the ulnar arteries. In the proximal part of the arm it lies to the medial side of the humerus, but as it approaches the elbow it passes to the front of the humerus. This change of position must be borne in mind when pressure is applied to the vessel with the view of controlling the flow of blood through it. In the upper part of the arm the pressure must be directed laterally and backwards, and in the lower part directly backwards. Relations.—The brachial artery is superficial in the whole of its length, therefore, to expose it, it is only necessary to reflect the skin and the fascia, but it is overlapped, from the lateral side, by the medial margins of the coraco-brachialis and biceps brachii (see Figs. 30, 31). At the bend of the elbow it is crossed superficially by the lacertus fibrosiis which intervenes between it and the median basilic vein. The basilic vein lies to the medial side of the artery and on a somewhat posterior plane. In the distal part of the arm it is separated from the artery by the fascia brachii; but