INFERIOR EXTREMITY 242 the tendon of that muscle. It next lies in the interval between the lateral head of the gastrocnemius and the biceps fernoris, and finally turning anteriorly, round the neck of the fibula, it ends under cover of the proximal part of the perongeus longus. It gives off cutaneous and articular branches. The cutaneous brariches are two in number, viz. the anasto- motic peroneal nerve, and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the calf which supplies the skin on the anterior and lateral aspect of the proximal part of the leg. They frequently take origin by a common trunk. The anastomotic peroneal nerve arises from the common peroneal trunk in the fossa poplitea, and is continued distally over the lateral head of the gastrocnemius. It ulti- mately unites with the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf to form the sural nerve. The articular branches are three in number. They accompany the lateral genicular branches of the popliteal artery, and the anterior recurrent tibial branch of the anterior tibial artery. They are of small size and difficult to dissect. The recurrejit articular tterve springs from the termination of the common peroneal nerve, and will be dissected at a later stage. Arteria Poplitea (Popliteal Artery).—The popliteal artery is the terminal part of the great arterial trunk of the lower limb. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus, where it is continuous with the femoral artery, and it ends, at the distal border of the popliteus muscle, by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. This division is at present hidden from view by the proximal border of the soleus muscle, but it will be exposed in the dissection of the leg. The course which the popliteal artery takes through the popliteal fossa is not straight. In the first instance it inclines obliquely distally and laterally, so as to gain the middle of the fossa between the two condyles of the femur. From this point to its termination it takes a vertical course. Through- out the greater part of its length it is placed deeply. In the proximal part of the fossa it is covered by the semimem- branosus, but when it gains the interval between the two condyles, although it lies deeply in the fat of the fossa, it is simply covered by the integuments and fascim. This part of the vessel is very short, however—not more than about an inch,—because it at once passes onwards between and anterior to the two heads of the gastrocnemius, is crossed by '