FOREARM AND HAND 1 29 and is inserted into the medial side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little finger. It is supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The flexor digiti quinti brevis is composed of a single fleshy belly which springs from the hook of the os hamatum and the transverse carpal ligament, and is inserted into the medial side of the proximal phalanx of the little finger, in common with the abductor. This muscle is sometimes much reduced in size, and frequently more or less completely incorporated with the opponens. Its nerve supply comes from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The oppofiens digiti quinti arises from the transverse carpal ■ligament, and the hook of the os hamatum, and its fibres spread out to obtain insertion into the entire length of the medial margin of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The deep bra7ich of the ubiar gives it its nerve of supply. Ramus Profundus Nervi Ulnaris (Deep Branch of the palmar part of the Ulnar Nerve).—This nerve springs from the parent trunk on the volar aspect of the transverse carpal ligament, and gives off a branch which supplies the three short muscles of the little finger. Accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar artery it sinks into the interval between the abductor and flexor digiti quinti brevis, and turns laterally across the palm deep to the flexor tendons. Near the lateral border of the palm the deep branch of the ulnar nerve breaks up into terminal twigs which supply the adductor pollicis, and the first dorsal interosseous muscle. In its course across the palm it lies along the concavity or proximal border of the deep volar arch, and sends three fine branches distally in front of the three interosseous spaces. They supply the interosseous muscles in the spaces, while the two medial also give branches to the dorsal surfaces of the two medial lumbrical muscles. The third lumbrical has frequently a double nerve supply, a branch from the deep part of the ulnar nerve, and, not uncommonly, a second twig from the median enters its volar aspect. The deep branch of the ulnar may, therefore, be said to supply all the muscles of the palm which lie to the medial side of the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, whilst the median supplies the three muscles which lie to the lateral side of that tendon. There are two exceptions to this generalisation, viz. the two lateral lumbrical muscles, which lie upon the medial VOL. I—9