FOREARM AND HAND 99 The radial artery is usually selected for the determination of the pulse. By placing the tips of the fingers upon the distal part of the forearm, in the interval between the tendons of the brachioradialis and flexor carpi radialis, the pulsations of the vessel in the living person can readily be felt. Branches of the Radial Artery. — In the forearm the radial artery gives off the following branches, viz. :— 1. The a. recurrens radialis. 2. The a. volaris superficialis. 3. The a. carpeus volaris. 4. Rami musculares. The rami musculares are very numerous, and proceed from the radial artery at irregular points throughout its whole course in the forearm. The arteria recurrens radialis is a branch of some size. It takes origin close to the commencement of the radial artery, and in the first instance runs laterally between the brachioradialis and the supinator. Here it comes into relation with branches coming from the radial nerve, and gives off several twigs for the supply of the muscles arising from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. Somewhat reduced in size, it now turns proximally in the interval between the brachioradialis and brachialis, and ends, in front of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, by anastomos- ing with the anterior terminal branch of the art. profunda brachii. It may be represented by two or more vessels. The ramus volaris superficialis (O.T. art. superficialis volse) is a small, variable branch, which arises a short distance pro.ximal to the wrist, and runs distally to end in the muscles of the ball of the thumb. Sometimes, however, it attains a larger size and a special importance, from its being continued into the palm to complete the superficial volar arch on the lateral side. The ramus carpeus volaris is a minute twig which springs from the radial at the distal border of the pronator quadratus muscle. It runs medially, under cover of the flexor tendons, and joins the corresponding branch of the ulnar artery to form the volar carpal arch. The Ramus Superficialis and the Ramus Profundus of the Nervus Radialis (O.d’. Radial and Posterior In- terosseous Nerves). — It has already been noted that the radial nerve ends above the elbow, under cover of the brachio- radialis muscle, by dividing into two terminal branches, I—7 a