147 FOREARM AND HAND muscle arises by two heads from the contiguous surfaces of the two metacarpal bones between which it lies, and the fibres converge in a pennate manner upon a delicate tendon. In the case of the first or most lateral dorsal interosseous 7nuscle, this tendon is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the first phalanx, and also into the lateral margin of the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon of the index. The second and third dorsal interosseous fnuscles are inserted in a similar manner upon either side of the base of the first phalanx of the middle finger; whilst the fourth has a corresponding insertion upon the medial aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the ring finger. The first dorsal interosseous muscle is frequently termed the abductor indicis, and between its two heads of origin the radial artery enters the palm. Between the heads of the other three muscles the small perforating arteries pass. The three tnm. interossei volares can only be seen on the palmar aspect of the hand. They act as adductors of the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle digit, and each muscle is placed upon the metacarpal bone of the finger upon which it acts. The first volar mterosseous muscle there- fore arises from the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and its delicate tendon is inserted upon the medial side of that digit, partly into the base of the first phalanx, and partly into the extensor expansion. The secofid pabnar biterosseous muscle springs from the metacarpal bone of the ring finger, and has a similar insertion into the lateral side of that digit. The third pabnar interosseous muscle takes origin from the metacarpal bone, and presents a corresponding insertion into the lateral side of the first phalanx and extensor expansion of the little finger. The interosseous muscles are supplied by the profunda branch of the ulnar nerve. Deep Head of M. Flexor Pollicis Brevis. — This small muscle, which is also known as the m. interosseous primus volaris (Henle), can best be displayed from the dorsal aspect of the hand by reflecting the lateral head of the first dorsal interosseous miuscle. It arises from the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and is inserted into the medial sesamoid bone of that digit. It is deeply placed, and is entirely covered, on its volar aspect, by the oblic[ue part of the adductor pollicis. Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis.—The tendon of this muscle should now be traced through the groove on the volar aspect of the os multangulum majus to its insertion into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index. It presents also a minor attachment to the base of the middle metacarpal bone.