ARTICULATIONS 329 The distal part of the posterior ligament forms a strong narrow band of yellowish fibres, which takes a transverse course on the back of the joint and is firmly attached to both tibia and fibula, filling up the interval between them. It constitutes a part of the tibio-fibular socket for the talus at the ankle-joint (Figs. 120 and 121); and on the proximal aspect of the articular surface of the talus, the area over which it plays is usually easily distinguished. This portion of the posterior ligament is called the inferior trans- verse ligament. Dissection.—To see the interosseous ligament of the tibio-fibular syndes- mosis the bones of the leg may be sawn through about two inches proximal to the distal end of the tibia, and then divided with the saw from above downwards in a vertical-transverse, or frontal direction. This cut should be planned so as to pass through the inferior tibio-fibular joint. The short strong fibres of the interosseous ligament will then be seen, and also the short narrow articular interval between the lower portions of the opposing surfaces of the bones when the latter is present. If a cavity is present in the distal part of the joint the synovial membrane of the capsule of the ankle-joint is prolonged proximally over the inner surface of those parts of the ligaments of the tibio-fibular syndesmosis which help to form the boundaries of the cavity. Articul.-vtions of the Foot. The articulations of the foot are very numerous. They consist of: — 1. Articulationes intertarsse, tarsometatarste, and intermetatarsEC. 2. Articulationes metatarso-phalangese. 3. Articulationes digitorum pedis. The bones which enter into these articulations are the seven tarsal bones, the metatarsal bones, and the phalanges. The tarsal and metatarsal bones are bound together by inter- osseous, plantar, and dorsal ligaments, and are disposed in the form of two arches, viz. a longitudinal and a transverse. The integrity of these arches is maintained: (i) partly by the forms of the bones; (2) partly by the tension of the liga- ments; (3) partly by supporting tendons; and (4) partly by the tension of the plantar aponeurosis. The longitudinal arch presents a greater height and a wider span along the medial than along the lateral side of the foot. The talus is placed on the summit of this arch and forms its keystone. The posterior pillar of the longitudinal plantar arch is short and solid, being formed by the calcaneus alone ; the anterior pillar, much longer, is composed of several bones.