'43 FOREAR^[ AND HAND The branches which spring from the radial artery in this part of its course are of small size. They are :— 1. The dorsal carpal. 2. The dorsal metacarpal. 3. The two dorsales pollicis arteries. 4. The dorsalis indicis artery. The dorsal radial carpal artery takes origin on the lateral aspect of the wrist, and runs medially upon the carpus to join the corresponding carpal branch of the ulnar artery. The arch thus formed is placed under cover of the extensor tendons, and gives off two branches which run distally in the third and fourth inter-metacarpal intervals. They are termed the seco7id and third dorsal 7netacarpal arteries. The first dorsal 77ietacarpal artery arises, as a rule, from the radial trunk, although not infrequently it may be seen to spring from the dorsal carpal arch. It extends distally in the second interosseous space. The three dorsal metacarpal arteries are brought into connection -with the arteries in the palm by communicating branches. They are joined by the three perforating twigs of the arcus volaris profundus. These make their appearance on the dorsum between the heads of the three medial dorsal inter- osseous muscles. Further, at the distal ends of the interosseous spaces the dorsal metacarpal arteries usually send raw/ per- fora7ttes hiferiores to join the corresponding common volar digital arteries in the palm. The hvo dorsal arteries of the tlnwib run distally upon either side of that digit. The dorsal artery of the mdex is distributed on the lateral side of the index. Dorsal Carpal Ligament.—This has been seen to be an aponeurotic band which stretches obliquely across the wrist. It is merely a thickened portion of the deep fascia, and its attachments are so arranged that it does not interfere with the free movement of the radius and hand during pronation and supination. On the lateral side it is fixed to the lateral margin of the distal end of the radius, whilst on the medial side it is attached to the os triquetrum and os pisiforme, and also to the palmar aponeurosis. In the case of the transverse carpal liga- ment one large compartment, or tunnel, is formed for the flexor tendons; not so in the case of the dorsal carpal ligament. Partitions or processes proceed from its deep surface, and