INFERIOR EXTREMITY 33° viz. the navicular, the cuboid, the three cuneiforms, and the metatarsus. Further, the anterior pillar may be considered as being formed of a medial column composed of the navicular, the three cuneiform, and the three medial metatarsal bones, and a lateral column composed of the cuboid and the two lateral metatarsal bones. The weight of the body is trans- mitted to the summit of the arch through the talus, and the most important ligaments concerned in the prevention of excessive flattening of the arch are the plantar ca/ca?ieo- navicular, the two pla7itar calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, and the various slips of the te7idon of the tibialis posterior as they pass to find attachment to the different tarsal and meta- tarsal bones. The pla7itar aponeurosis also acts po-werfully in this way: connecting as it does the extremities of the two pillars of the plantar arch, it operates, as the late Sir < George Humphry once pointed out, in the same manner as the “ tie-beam ” of a roof. The transverse arch of the foot is seen to best advantage across the line of the tarso- metatarsal articulations. Dissection.—The muscles and tendons which have hitherto been only partially detached from the bones of the foot should now be completely removed and the ligaments defined. Taloid Articulations.—The talus articulates by means of the large posterior facet on the distal surface of its body with the corresponding posterior facet on the proximal surface of the calcaneus. Its head, on the other hand, is received into a large socket which is formed for it by the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneus, the navicular, and two ligaments which pass between the calcaneus and the navicular—viz. one below, the plantar calcaneo-navicular, and another on the lateral side, the lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament. These two taloid articulations are quite distinct. The ligaments which hold the talus in its place are five in number. Four are attached to the calcaneus and one to the navicular bone. They are :— 1. Lig. talo-calcaneum intcrosseum. 2. Lig. talo-calcaneum laterale. 3. Lig. talo-calcaneum mcdiale. 4. Lig. talo-calcaneum posterius. 5. Lig. talo-naviculare dorsale. 'I'he talo-calca7iea7i intetvsseous Iiga7ne7it is by far the most powerful. It occupies the tarsal canal, and consists of strong