178 INFERIOR EXTREMITY margin of the pubic arch, and to the tuber ischiadicum. Anteriorly^ its upper attachment is complicated by the presence of the fossa ovalis. This aperture separates the fascia lata into a lateral or iliac portion and a medial or pectineal portion, now known as the fascia pectinea. This subdivision only extends distally to the distal border of the fossa ovalis. The iliac portmi is attached along the whole length of the inguinal ligament. Its medial crescentic margin bounds the fossa ovalis laterally and forms its falciform edge. The cornu superius of this edge blends with the lig. lacunare (O.T. Gimbernat’s ligament), whilst its inferior cornu joins the pectineal portion of the fascia lata. The fascia pectinea clothes the proxi- mal portions of the adductor longus and pectineus muscles. It recedes from the surface as it is traced laterally, passes posterior to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and blends with the lig. pubocapsulare of the hip-joint, with the deep intermuscular septa, and with the fascia iliaca which covers the Fig. 67.—Diagram to show the arrangement of the three inter- muscular septa and the tliree ... , n-.ii j- 1 osteo-fascial compartments of iho-psoas muscle. To the medial side of the femoral vessels the the thigh. (After Turner.) a. Medial intermuscular septum. A Posterior intermuscular septum. c. Lateral intermuscular septum. fascia pectinea is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line of the pubic bone. The fascia cribrosa, as previously stated, is to be regarded as a thin piece of the fascia lata, stretched across the fossa ovalis. lyaterally, it is continuous with the falciform edge of the iliac portion of the fascia; medially, it blends with the front of the fascia pectinea. In the neighbourhood of the knee the fascia lata is con- tinuous posteriorly with the popliteal fascia, whilst on the lateral and anterior aspects of the joint it is attached to the various bony prominences and to the different tendons in this locality and it helps to strengthen and support the capsular ligament offfhe knee-joint. Septa Intemiuscularia (Intermuscular Septa). — But the fascia lata has other offices to perform besides that of forming a continuous investment for the thigh. From every part of