ABDOMINAL CAVITY 485 its mucous surface downwards, upon the bottom of a cork-lined tray, which has been previously filled with clean water. The jejunum is chosen because its wall is thicker than the ileum, and consequently more easily dissected. Carefully remove the thin serous coat in order that the subjacent layer of longitudinal muscular fibres may be studied. Then turn the specimen round and pin it down with its mucous surface uppermost. Now remove the mucous membrane with the subjacent flocculent submucous coat, with the scissors, in one layer. The circular muscular fasciculi will come into view. Coats of the Small Intestine.—The small intestine has five coats or strata entering into the formation of its walls, viz. :— The serous coating of the jejunum and ileum is complete, except along the line of the mesenteric attachment. It is exceedingly thin — much thinner than .the layers of the mesentery with which it is continuous. Unless great care be taken in stripping it off, some of the subjacent muscular fibres will be taken away with it. The subserous coat is a scarcely appreciable amount of areolar tissue which inter- venes between the peritoneum and the muscular coat. It need not be taken into account in this dissection. The muscular coat is composed of involuntary, non-striated muscular fibres. These are disposed in two layers, viz., an external stratum of longitudinal fibres, and an mternal stratum of circular fibres. Of these the circular layer is the thicker and more distinct of the two. The external longitudinal fibres are spread out, in the form of a thin continuous layer, all round the circumference of the intestine. In that part of the wall opposite the mesenteric attachment the fibres are more thickly disposed than elsewhere. The subtuucous coat is com- posed of loose areolar tissue which binds the muscular to the mucous coat. It is more firmly connected with the latter. The mucous coat must be examined throughout the whole length of the jejunum and ileum. Dissection.—The student has noticed that externally no distinction can be drawn between the jejunum and ileum, with these exceptions, viz., that as the intestine descends it diminishes slightly in its calibre and in the thickness of its walls. It is necessary, therefore, that he should open it up along its whole length, with the view of determining what differences exist internally. Before doing this, about twelve inches of the upper part of the jejunum should be removed and inflated with air. It should then be hung up to dry in order that the folds of mucous membrane, called plica; circulares, may be studied in their continuity. The best way to open the 1. Serous. 2. Subserous. 3. Muscular. 4. Submucous. 5. Mucous.