ABDOMEN 4. Internal spermatic or ovarian arteries. 4. The middle sacral. 54° of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the median plane, by dividing into the two com^yion iliac arteries. It therefore pursues an oblique course—inclining slightly to the left as it proceeds downwards. A line drawn between the highest points of the iliac crests would indicate the level of the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta; it takes place a little below and to the left of the umbilicus. Most of the structures which lie hi front of the abdominal aorta have been removed. In immediate relation to it from above downwards are:—(i) The coeliac plexus and the layer of peritoneum which forms the posterior wall of the omental bursa. (2) The pancreas and splenic vein. (3) The left renal vein and the third part of the duodenum. (4) The root of the mesentery and the superior mesenteric vessels. (5) The peritoneum and the aortic plexus of nerves. Super- ficial to these it is covered by the liver, the lesser omentum and the stomach, the transverse colon and its mesentery, and by the greater omentum and the coils of the small intestine. Behind., the abdominal aorta rests upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae and the intervertebral discs, separated from them, however, by the anterior longitudinal ligament and the left lumbar veins. On each side it is related in its upper part to the crus of the diaphragm. On the right side the inferior vena cava lies close to the aorta as high as the second lumbar vertebra, but above this it is separated from it by the fleshy part of the right crus. In the interval between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta, the student has already noted the cisterna chyli and the vena azygos. On the left side, the left gangliated cord of the sympathetic is in relation to the artery below the level of the left crus. Branches of the Abdominal Aorta.—-The branches of the abdominal aorta may be described under two heads, viz.— (i) Those which come off in pairs. (2) Those which arise singly. Paired Branches. 1. Inferior phrenic arteries. 2. Middle suprarenal arteries. 3. Renal arteries. 5. Lumbar arteries. ^Vith the exception of the middle sacral, which arises from the back of the extremity of the aorta between the two Single Branches. 1. The coeliac artery. 2. The superior mesenteric. 3. The inferior mesenteric.