422 ABDOMEN narrow but frequently very deep, lies between the fold containing the obliterated part of the umbilical artery and that containing the inferior epigastric artery. It is behind that part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal which is formed by the transversalis fascia only. The lateral inguinal fossa lies to the lateral side of the fold formed by the inferior epigastric artery and its lowest, medial, and deepest part corresponds with the abdominal inguinal ring. Having determined these points, the dissector can proceed as follows :— Divide the lower part of the abdominal wall in a vertical direction along the linea alba, from the umbilicus to the pubes. Make this incision a little on one side of the urachus, and, on nearing the pubic symphysis, be careful not to injure the bladder, which may project upwards beyond it. On throwing the left flap downwards and laterally, it may be possible to detect the position of the abdominal inguinal ring from the fact that in some cases the peritoneum is slightly dimpled into it. Now strip the peritoneum from the flap as far down as the inguinal ligament. This can be easily done with the fingers, as its connection with the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue is very slight. Next separate the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue from the fascia transversalis with the handle of the knife, proceeding with great care as the inguinal ligament is approached. The abdominal inguinal ring, or the inlet of the inguinal canal, is now seen from within. From this point of view the opening is more like a vertical slit in the fascia transversalis than a ring. Its lower and lateral margin will be seen to be specially strong and thick. Note the inferior epigastric artery passing upwards and medially close to its medial margin. Further, observe the ductus deferens and the spermatic vessels entering it, the former, as it disappears into the canal, hooking round the inferior epigastric artery. Introduce the tip of the little finger into the opening and push it gently downwards in the direction of the inguinal canal. On raising the flap of the abdominal wall and looking at its front aspect, a very striking demonstration of the infundibuliform fascia can thus be obtained. When the dissection is satisfactorily completed the student should note that there are three portions of each wall of the canal. At the medial end of the anterior wall lies the subcutaneous inguinal ring covered, and to a certain extent closed, by the intercrural fibres descending on the spermatic cord. Immediately to the lateral side of the superficial ring the anterior wall is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique only, and at its lateral end the anterior wall is composed of the external oblique aponeurosis and the lower fibres of the internal oblique muscle : the anterior wall, therefore, is weakest at its medial and strongest at its lateral extremity. The posterior wall on the contrary is strongest at its medial and weakest at its lateral end. At its medial end, behind the subcutaneous inguinal ring, it is three layers thick, the layers from before backwards being the lig. inguinale reflexum, the falx inguinalis, and the transversalis fascia. More laterally, opposite the region where the anterior wall consists of external oblique aponeurosis alone, the posterior wall is formed by the transversalis fascia and the falx inguinalis, and still more laterally, where the anterior wall is formed by both external oblique aponeurosis and internal oblique muscle, the posterior wall is represented by transversalis fascia only. The walls of the canal are well adapted, therefore, to resist the eflects of intra- abdominal pressure. The student must remember, however, that, for practical purposes, in association with the formation of hernia, the contents of the abdomen may be looked upon as being of a fluid or semifluid nature, consec]uently if a portion of the abdominal contents happens to slip through the abdominal inguinal ring, into a persisting though shrunken processus vaginalis, the action of the abdominal pressure will, thenceforth, tend to