ABDOMINAL WALL 419 down the deep muscles of the back at the sides of the spines of the vertebra:. In the thoracic region it is a thin transparent lamina which extends from the spines of the vertebrre to the angles of the ribs. At the upper end of the thoracic region it disappears into the neck under cover of the serralus posterior superior. In the lumbar region it becomes much stronger and more complicated. Above it is continuous with the dorsal portion of the fascia and is attached to the last rib. Medially it is attached to the tips of the spines and transverse processes, and to the fronts of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrre; laterally it is connected with the transversus abdominis and the internal oblique, and below it is closely attached to the posterior part of the lateral lip of the iliac crest. In the pelvic region it is attached to the spines of the sacrum and to the back of the lower part of the sacrum and to the back of the coccyx. In the lumbar region its posterior lamella covers the rounded column of the spinal muscles, and to this part the remains of the origin of the latissimus dorsi and the serratus posterior inferior will be found attached. The former must be cleared away, the latter extends upwards and laterally to its attachment to the lower four ribs. It must be cut through at right angles to its fibres and turned aside, its nerves of supply, from the anterior branches of the lower thoracic nerves, being sought for on its deep surface. The remains of its origin from the lumbar fascia must be cleared away and then a vertical incision must be made through the fascia, midway between the medial and lateral borders of the rounded mass of the spinal muscles, and at each end of the longitudinal incision a transverse incision must be made, one just below the last rib and the other just above the iliac crest. The trans- verse incisions should commence at the spine and should not extend beyond the lateral margin of the mass of spinal muscles. The medial part of the divided fascia must be turned to the median plane and its attachments to the tips of the spine verified. The lateral part should be pulled laterally, and at the lateral border of the mass of spinal muscles it will be found to blend with a deeper layer. Push the spinal muscles medially and follow the middle lamella to its attachment to the tips of the transverse processes. The dissectors should then note that the upper fibres of origin of the internal oblique spring from the lumbar fascia just lateral to the line where the middle and posterior lamellre of the fascire blend. There is still, how- ever, another lamella of the lumbar fascia, the anterior lamella. To display this the dissector must divide the middle lamella vertically, close to its attachments to the tips of the transverse processes, and transversely along the line of its attachment to the iliac crest. The middle lamella can then be turned laterally and the posterior surface of the quadratus lumborum is brought into view. When the lateral border of this muscle is displaced towards the median plane the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia will be exposed. The dissector should place his finger upon its surface and trace, it medially and laterally. Medially he will be able to follow it to, or to within a short distance of the roots of the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and laterally he will find that it joins the remainder of the fascia some distance lateral to the union of the posterior and middle lamella;. He must note, further, that beyond the union of the three lamella; the lumbar fascia is continued into the transversus abdominis, and thus it is, through the lumbar fascia, that the transversus obtains its origin from the tips of the spines, and transverse processes, and the fronts of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra;. When he has satisfied himself regarding the lamella; of the lumbar fascia and their relation to the internal oblique and the transversus adominis, the dissector should carefully divide the anterior lamella longitudinally and introducing his finger, through the incision, into the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue, he should scrape away the