ABDOMEN 628 attachment on each side the anterior fibres of the levator ani arise from the back of the body of the pubis. The dissector should now turn to the perineum and examine the pelvic fascia from below. He has already seen that it forms the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa and is carried medially from the margin of the pubic arch, as the superior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm, to the medial plane, where it turns backwards along the urethra and round the anterior border of the levator ani. He has seen also that the levator ani arises from the parietal fascia of the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa and passes downwards and medially to the wall of the anal canal into which many of its fibres are inserted. The levator ani must now be divided from before backwards, midway between its origin and its insertion, and the upper portion must be turned laterally towards the pelvic wall. When this has been done the lower surface of the superior fascia of the pelvic diaphragm will be exposed, and the dissector will see, after the removal of the peritoneum and extra- peritoneal fat above, and the levator ani below, that the visceral fascia alone separates the pelvic cavity above from the perineum below, and he can convince himself that the visceral layer springs from the parietal immediately above the origin of the levator ani, and that, as it runs towards the medial plane, it encloses the pelvic viscera. He will also find, if he traces the under surface of the visceral layer forwards, that it blends anteriorly, round the anterior border of the levator ani, vdth the upper fascia of the uro- genital diaphragm which is formed by the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia. He has still to demonstrate the cleavage of the visceral layer into secondary lamellce which ensheathe the pelvic viscera. To do this he must take the following steps:— Dissection.—Detach the crura of the clitoris from the margins of the pubic arch and trace the dorsal vein of the clitoris beneath the arcuate ligament. Divide the dorsal vein and turn the clitoris down. Separate the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm from the margin of the pubic arch on each side, if that has not already been done during the dissection of the perineum. Examine the sphincter urethrre membranacea: which lies above the inferior layer of the uro-genital diaphragm. Divide the sphincter urcthrx membranacere on each side and turn it towards the median plane. Pass a probe into the urethra and note that the anterior fibres of the sphincter pass in front of the urethra, and that its posterior fibres pass over the wall of the vagina. Behind the sphincter urethrte membranacete lies the