233 CxLUT^AL REGION inches in a distal direction. This will bring very conspicuously into view the upper part of the vastus lateralis. Next, grasp the cut edge of the fascia lata from which the glutKus maximus has been separated, and, dragging it forcibly laterally, dissect in the interval between it and the glutteus medius. The tensor fasciae latae, which is intimately associated with this portion of the fascia lata, is pulled laterally with it, and the deep surface of that muscle, clothed by a strong deep lamella of fascia, comes into view. Very little dissection is required to expose its nerve of supply—a branch from the superior glutseal—which emerges from the anterior border of the glutasus minimus, and sinks into its deep surface. An artery will also be noticed ramifying on the deep surface of the tensor fasciae latae ; this is the ascending branch of the lateral circumflex artery. Seeing that the anterior borders of the glutaeus medius and glutaeus minimus are adherent, it is welt to separate them from behind forward by introducing the fingers between their posterior borders. When the glutaeus medius is completely isolated, it may be divided about two inches above the greater trochanter of the femur, and the two portions thrown respectively proximally and distally. A small bursa, between the muscle and the upper part of the greater trochanter, will thus be brought into view, and the exact insertion of the tendon will be rendered evident. As the proximal part of the muscle is raised, a number of vessels and nerves between it and the glutaeus minimus will be exposed. These must be carefully cleaned and followed to their destinations. They are derived from the superior glutreal artery and nerve. Arteria Glutaea Superior (O.T. Glutaeal Artery).—This is a large vessel which springs from the hypogastric artery and escapes from the pelvis, through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen, above the level of the piriformis. Immediately after its exit, it divides into a superficial and a deep division. The superficial division has been already seen during the reflection of the glutteus maximus. It is distributed to the deep surface of that muscle, and is placed between it and the glutaeus medius. The deep division bifurcates close to its origin into a superior and an inferior branch; both of these lie between the glutaeus medius and minimus. The superior branch follows accurately the anterior curved line on the dorsum ilii, and, at the anterior superior spine, terminates by anastomosing with the superficial and deep circumflex iliac arteries, and with the ascending branch of the lateral circumflex artery. The latter has already been noticed passing proximally under cover of the tensor fasciae latae. The mferior branch runs distally and anteriorly towards the greater trochanter. It gives twigs to the two glutaeal muscles between which it lies, and some terminal offsets to the hip-joint. Nervus Glutaeus Superior (O.T. Superior Glutaeal Nerve).— The superior glutaeal nerve emerges from the pelvis in company with the superior glutaeal artery, and passing anteriorly, between