624 ABDOMEN Dissection.—The dissector should cut through the lateral false ligaments of the bladder at their junctions with the lower borders of the anterior surfaces of the broad ligaments; he should then turn the (lateral false ligaments medially to the lateral borders of the upper surface of the bladder. Next he should draw the apex of the bladder backwards and pass his index finger down through the soft fat, between the anterior border of the bladder and the back of the symphysis pubis, till he feels the resistance of the upper fascia of the pelvic diaphragm which passes medially from the wall of the pelvis to the bladder, and which is thickened on each side of the medial plane to form the medial pubo-vesical ligaments of the bladder. These ligaments having been recognised, the finger should be carried laterally and then backwards between the wall of the pelvis and the bladder, above the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, as far as the lateral border of the broad ligament. The dissector will find he can do this quite easily, and by doing it he will demonstrate the fact that between the anterior border and infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder and the wall of the pelvis there is a space filled with easily displaced extra- peritoneal fat; this is the lower and front part of the so-called cave of Retzius. The finger should now be passed still farther backwards along the lateral wall of the pelvis, beyond the lateral border of the broad ligament, until the front of the hypogastric artery is reached ; but little resistance will be metj and the dissector will be able to satisfy himself that the lower part of the so-called cave extends round the sides and front of the pelvis from the hypogastric artery of one side to the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The upper part of the cave lies behind the anterior abdominal wall, extending upwards between the inferior epigastric arteries to the level of the umbilicus. The cave is of practical importance because, on account of the laxity of its fatty contents, urine escaping from a ruptured bladder, or effused blood, or inflammatory exudations, can spread rapidly throughout the area ; moreover it is an area in which the surgeon can readily separate the abdominal contents from the abdominal wall. Having satisfied himself of the presence and the boundaries of the cave, the dissector should carefully remove the extra-peritoneal fat which lies between the bladder and the wall of the pelvis, taking care to avoid injuring any vessels which may be passing through the fat. ^Yhen he has completed this part of the dissection he will have displayed on the side wall of the pelvis the following structures :—The lateral umbilical ligament lying a short distance below the level of the pelvic brim.^ The obturator nerve below the ligament, and at a still lower level the obturator artery and vein. Crossing from the umbilical ligament to the bladder he will find the superior vesical artery. Lateral to the obturator vessels and nerve he will see the ]jarietal pelvic fascia, and at the bottom of the space he will find the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia passing medially from the parietal layer to the bladder. Just to the lateral side of the junction of the lateral border with the posterior border of the bladder he will find the lower end of the ureter, and, if he passes a finger into the vagina, he will recognise that the lower end of the ureter is crossing a recess of the vagina, at the side of the lower end of the uterus, which is called the lateral fornix of the vagina (Fig. 24S). If the lower border of the broad ligament is now carefully raised, the uterine artery will be found passing medially above the ureter to the side of the uterus (Fig. 24S). Having displayed the structures in front of the broad ligament, the dissector should turn to the posterior part of the pelvis, where he must care- fully divide the peritoneum along the back of the lower border of the 1 See p. 599.