149 ARTICULATIONS The articular capsule is attached proximally to the antero- medial and antero-lateral surfaces of the humerus, above the coronoid and radial fossae respectively. At the sides it is attached to the epicondyles and posteriorly to the posterior sur- * face on which the line of attachment passes through the upper part of the fossa olecrani. Distally the capsule is attached to the anterior margin of the proximal, medial, and lateral surfaces of the olecranon ; to the medial and volar margins of the coronoid process of the ulna, and to the annular ligament of the radius. The anterior part of the capsule consists of fibres which take an irregular course over the an- terior aspect of the joint. The posterior part of the capsule is weaker than the an- terior and its attach- ment to the posterior surface of the humerus is comparatively loose. Ligamentum Col- laterale Radiale (O.T. External Lateral Ligament).—This is a strong but short ligamentous band which is attached above to the distal aspect of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. Below, it is fixed to the annular ligament of the radius, and also, more posteriorly, to the lateral side of the olecranon of the ulna. The annular ligament is a strong ligamentous collar which surrounds the head of the radius, and retains it in the incisura radialis of the ulna. Ligamentum Collaterale Ulnare (O.T. Internal Lateral Ligament).—The ulnar collateral ligament, taken as a whole, is fan-shaped. By its proximal pointed part it is attached to the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Distally it spreads out to find insertion into the coronoid process and olecranon. It consists of three very distinct portions, viz. an anterior, a posterior, and a transverse. The anterior part springs from the distal and anterior part of the medial epicondyle, and is attached to the medial margin of the coronoid process of the ulna. The posterior part is Biceps brachii' Brachialis' Median basilic vein Brachial artery Flexor carpi ulnaris Fig. 58.—Vertical section through Humerus and Ulna at the Elbow-joint.