ABDOMEN 554 its middle, and descends obliquely across the iliacus muscle, behind the fascia iliaca, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. At this point it leaves the abdomen by passing behind the inguinal ligament. It supplies the skin upon the lateral and anterior aspect of the thigh. The nervus femoralis (O.T. a7iterior crural nerve) is the largest branch of the plexus. It runs downwards in the interval between the psoas and iliacus, and passes out of the abdomen behind the inguinal ligament. It gives a branch to the iliacus muscle. The n. obturatorius {pbhirator nerve) emerges from the medial border of the psoas, where this muscle reaches the brim of the small pelvis, and extends forwards upon the inner surface of the wall of the small pelvis, a short way below the ilio-pectineal line of the innominate bone. At the upper part of the obturator foramen it joins the artery of the same name, and, escaping from the pelvis, enters the thigh. A small nerve, the accessory obturator^ is occasionally to be found. It may spring either directly from the obturator or from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It proceeds down- wards along the medial side of the psoas, and it enters, the thigh by passing over the pubic bone under cover of the pectineus. In the thigh it gives branches to the hip-joint, and unites with the obturator nerve. It occasionally supplies a twig to the pectineus muscle. Truncus Lumbosacralis (Lumbo-sacral Cord).—This large nerve trunk is formed by the union of the anterior primary division of the fifth lumbar nerve with the descending branch of the fourth lumbar nerve. It passes downwards over the base of the sacrum into the pelvis, and joins the sacral plexus. Last Thoracic Nerve.—The anterior primary division of this nerve will be found running laterally in front of the quadratus lumborum, and under cover of the fascia spread over that muscle, along the lower border of the last rib. Near the spine it sends a small offset downwards to the first lumbar nerve, and at the lateral border of the quadratus lumborum it pierces the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, and then passes forwards in the abdominal wall between that muscle and the internal oblique. Its course and distribution in the wall of the abdomen have already been described (P- 394)- Arteriae Lumbales (Lumbar Arteries).—These have been