235 FOSSA POPLITEA 1. Superficial fascia. 2. The small saphenous vein. 3. The posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. 4. Popliteal fascia. (Biceps femoris. Semitenclinosus. Semimembranosus. Gastrocnemius. Plantaris. 6. The tibial and common peroneal nerves and their branches. 7. The popliteal artery and vein and their branches. 8. A few lymph glands. g. A slender branch from the obturator nerve. 10. The popliteus muscle. Surface Anatomy. — The space which lies immediately behind the knee-joint, and between the hamstring muscles and the two heads of the gastrocnemius, is termed the ham. It is depressed when the knee is flexed, but forms a slight prominence when the joint is fully extended. By flexing the knee and pressing deeply into the interval between the hamstrings, the (injected) popliteal artery may be distinguished, and its pulsations can usually be felt in this situation in the living subject. With the limb in the same position, the tendon of the biceps femoris, on the lateral side of the space, is distinctly seen, as it passes distally to its insertion into the head of the fibula. The head of the fibula lies posterior and a little distal to the most projecting part of the lateral condyle of the tibia, and by pressing deeply between the fibula and the lateral condyle of the femur, the cord-like collateral fibular ligament can be distinguished. When the knee-joint is flexed and the limb is abducted, the rounded tendon of the adductor magnus may be detected on the medial side. It should be traced distally to the adductor tubercle. This bony projection is placed on the femur at the point where the medial supracondylar ridge joins the proximal and posterior part of the medial condyle, and is an important landmark, inasmuch as it indicates the level or the plane of junction between the distal epiphysis and the body of the femur. The common peroneal nerve (O.T. external popliteal) may be felt as it crosses the lateral side of the neck of the fibula, just before it pierces the peronasus longus muscle. In muscular subjects, on the upper part of the back of the leg, the two heads of the gastrocnemius form prominent objects. The posterior region of the thigh presents a smooth.