ABDOMEN 392 At the lateral margin of the rectus muscle the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splits into two layers—a superficial and a deep. The superficial aponeurotic layer passes in front of the rectus, and has already been seen to fuse with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The deep layer is carried medially behind the rectus, and becomes incorporated with the subjacent aponeurosis of the transverse muscle. But this arrangement does not hold good lower down than a point about midway between the umbilicus and the. pubes. Below this point the aponeurosis does not split, but passes entirely in front of the rectus to join the apo- neurosis of the external oblique. It is important to mark exactly the rela- tion which the lower part of the muscle bears to the spermatic cord. At first the cord lies behind the fleshy fibres, but it soon emerges, clothed by the cremaster muscle, and, as it is continued downwards and medi- ally to the subcutaneous inguinal ring, it lies in front of the falx apo- neurotica inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon). Especially note the position of the falx inguinalis in relation to the subcutaneous inguinal ring. It lies immediately behind it, and gives strength to this otherwise weak point in the abdominal parietes. M. Cremaster. ■— This muscle supports the testis and spermatic cord, and is consequently peculiar to the male. It arises from the medial part of the inguinal ligament, and also derives fibres from the lower border of the internal oblique (rarely from the lower border of the transversus abdominis muscle). The fleshy fibres descend upon the lateral and anterior aspects of the cord in the form of loops, the con- cavities of which are directed upwards. The depth to which Fig. 147.—Diagram to illustrate the relation of the lower border of the Internal Oblique Muscle to the Cord, the Falx Inguinalis, and the Inguinal Canal. O.I. Internal oblique muscle. C.T. Falx Inguinalis. The position of the subcutaneous inguinal ring is indicated by a dotted outline.