556 ABDOMEN and anteriorly by the innominate bones. 'I’he bony wall is deficient, on each side posteriorly, between the sacrum and coccyx behind and the innominate bone in front. This interval is partially filled in by the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum (O.T. great sacro-sciatic ligament) and the ligamentum sacro- spinosum (O.T. small sacro-sciatic ligament) which divide it into the great and small sacro-sciatic foramina. Anteriorly, on each side, the bony wall is broken by the obturator foramen, which is closed by the obturator membrane, and directly in front there is a gap, the pubic arch, which is occupied by the uro-genital diaphragm and its fasciae (O.T. triangular ligament). The area thus enclosed is separated into an upper and a lower part by an imaginary plane, the plane of the pelvic brim. The margins of this plane are the ilio-pectineal lines of the innominate bones and the promontory of the sacrum. The part above the plane is the pelvis major (O.T. false pelvis), which has already been studied as part of the abdomen. The part below the plane is the pelvis minor (O.T. true pelvis). The inner aspect of the wall of the small pelvis is partially covered by the following muscles. Posteriorly, on the front of the sacrum, are the two piriformes muscles. Laterally, on the inner surface of each hip bone, is the obturator mternus muscle. Anteriorly is the uro-genital diaphragm formed by the deep transverse perineal muscles and the sphincter urethra membi-anacece. The inner surfaces of these muscles and the intervening skeletal structures are covered by a continuous layer of fascia, the parietal pelvic fascia. The wall of the pelvis minor may, therefore, be regarded as consisting of three strata, viz.-—i. A bony stratum. 2. A muscular stratum. 3. A membranous stratum. The small pelvis is separated into an upper part and a lower part by the pelvic diaphragm, and the fascia covering it. The pelvic diaphragm is formed by the two levatores ani and the two coccygei muscles. In the following account the upper part will be spoken of as the pelvis. The lower part has already been called the perineum. The pelvis as thus defined is the smaller, basin-shaped, lower part of the abdominal cavity. It communicates with the upper portion or pelvis major through a somewhat constricted aperture, the pelvic inlet. The contents of the pelvic cavity differ in the two sexes; in both, however, the bladder occupies the fore-part of the