FOSSA POPLITRA 237 nerves. The artery and vein are placed deeply in the space, and in close contact with each other—the vein being superficial to the artery throughout. The tibial tierve and the common peroneal tierve lie more superficially. With the e.xception of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh which descends immediately subjacent to the deep fascia, the tibial nerve is the most superficial structure in the fossa poplitea. It lies superficial to the popliteal vessels, and is readily found by separating the adipose tissue in the middle line of the fossa. The common peroneal tierve will be exposed by dissecting along the proximo-lateral boundary of the space. It lies under shelter of the biceps femoris muscle. Both of these large nerves give off branches, of which the majority are easily secured and readily followed. The articular twigs, however, are very delicate, and great care is required in their dissection. In intimate relation to the popliteal artery is the geniculate branch of the obturator nerve. It descends in close apposition with the coats of the artery. As the fat is being cleared out from the fossa the dissector will not fail to observe some small lymph glands in relation to the great vessels. Boundaries. — The fossa poplitea is diamond - shaped. Above and laterally it is bounded by the biceps fe7noris muscle; whilst above and medially are the se??iitendinosus and the setni- membranosus muscles., the former lying upon the posterior surface of the latter. On the medial side of the knee, anterior to the semimembranosus, the gracilis, the sartorius, and the tendon of the adductor 7>iagnus, can be exposed. The fossa is bounded, below, by the converging heads of the gastroc7iemius. In the formation of the distal and lateral boundary, the lateral head of the gastrocnemius will be seen to be assisted by the small plantaris tnuscle. Dissection.—In cleaning the muscles which bound the fossa poplitea there are certain points to be attended to. In the case of the lateral head of the gastrocnemius, care must be taken not to remove the anastomotic tierve, which passes distally and medially upon its surface. In the groove between the heads of this muscle will be seen the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf. Further, the dissector must not overlook the bursa mucosa which intervenes between the tendon of the semimembranosus and the medial head of the gastrocnemius. This bursa sometimes communicates with a second bursa mucosa, which will be brought into view by lifting the medial head of the gastrocnemius from the medial condyle of the femur. The dissection may be carried in an anterior direction on the medial aspect of the limb a little beyond the medial boundary of the fossa, in order to expose the saphenous branch of the arteria genu suprema, the