6o2 ABDOMEN third piece of the sacrum. There it divides into two branches which proceed downwards, one on either side of the rectum. Each of these branches soon breaks up into smaller branches, which range themselves round the gut and pierce its muscular coat about the middle of its length. Within the submucous coat they proceed down to the anal canal, where it is usual to find one within each rectal column (p. 6io). The terminal twigs anastomose freely with each other and with branches of the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries. Arteria Sacralis Media (Middle Sacral Artery).—During the dissection of the abdomen the middle sacral artery was seen springing from the back of the termination of the aorta above the common iliac arteries. It descends in front of the bodies of the lower two lumbar vertebrse and behind the left common iliac vein. Reaching the sacrum, it continues downwards in the medial plane to the tip of the coccyx. It supplies the coccygeal body, and, from each side, it gives off small twigs which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries. Veins of the Pelvis.—The arrangement of the veins in the pelvis corresponds in great measure to that of the arteries; but there are some important differences, viz. :— (1) The dorsal vein of the pejiis, instead of joining the internal pudendal vein, enters the pelvis and divides into two branches, which join the pudendal plexus of veins. (2) The ilio-lumbar and middle sacral veins pour their blood, as a rule, into the common iliac veins, (3) The veins round the prostate, bladder, and rectum are large and numerous, and form dense plexuses, which com- municate freely with each other. The pudendal (O.T. prostatic') and vesical plexuses have already been noticed; the blood is drained from them chiefly by the vesical veins. The hcemorrhoidal plexus consists of two parts, one in the sub- mucous coat and one on the surface of the gut. It is the latter which is seen in the dissection. The blood is drained from it by three groups of channels, viz. the stiperior Immor- rhoidal vein, which ends in the inferior mesenteric vein; the middle hcemorrhoidal vems, which end in the hypo- gastric veins; and the inferior hcemor7-hoidal vems, which go to the internal pudendal veins. The hjemorrhoidal plexus is therefore a link between the portal and systemic