232 INFERIOR EXTREMITY ternus. Its terminal branches ramify in the neighbourhood of the fossa trochanterica, where they anastomose with twigs from the inferior and superior and glutaeal arteries. The transverse branch passes pbsteriorly, between the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus, and enters the hamstring muscles. It anastomoses with the terminal twig of the middle division of the lateral circumflex artery, which in a well-injected subject will be noticed appearing from amidst the fibres of the proximal part of the vastus lateralis. An arterial circle is thus com- pleted around the proximal part of the femur which com- municates proximally with the inferior glutasal artery and distally with the first perforating artery. This series of in- osculations is sometimes spoken of as the crucial a?iastomosis of the thigh. Dissection.—The dissector has now examined all the structures in the gluteal region which lie distal to the level of the piriformis. He should, in the next place, turn his attention to that portion of the dissection which lies proximal to the level of that muscle. Here are found a number of parts in close relation to the dorsum ilii. These are the glutreus medius, the glutteus minimus, and the tensor fascire latte, together with the blood-vessel and nerve which supply them, viz. the superior glutseal artery and the superior glutteal nerve. The hinder part of the glutteus medius muscle is covered by the glutteus maximus. Its anterior border is overlapped by the tensor fascite latte, and the intermediate area is invested by the dense aponeurotic layer already referred to. This fascia must be removed in order that a satis- factory view of the muscle may be obtained. It will then become evident that numerous fleshy fibres arise from the deep surface of the fascia. M. Glutseus Medius.—The glutteus medius arises from that part of the dorsum ilii which is bounded above by the posterior curved line and the anterior four-fifths of the crest of the ilium, and below by the anterior curved line (Fig. 84, p. 222); it also derives fibres from the strong fascia which covers it. The fibres converge to form a flattened band, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, which is inserted into an oblique line on the lateral aspect of the greater trochanter of the femur, and into the surface immediately above it. The gluta2us medius muscle is supplied by the superior glutceal nerve. Dissection.—The gluteeus medius must now be reflected. This dis- section is complicated by the fact that in its proximal and anterior pap the glutceus medius is partially blended with the subjacent glutteus mini- mus and the tensor fasciee lata;. Begin by rotating the limb medially. Then seizing the glutwus maximus with the left hand, pull it laterally, and divide the glistening aponeurosis into which it is inserted for two or three