THE UPPER EXTREMITY 46 The rhomboideus minor is a narrow, ribbon-like fleshy band which runs parallel to the upper border of the major rhomboid. It springs from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas, the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, and frequently also from the spine of the first thoracic vertebras. It is in- serted into the base of the scapula opposite the triangular surface at the root of its spine (Fig. 24, p. 55). It is entirely covered by the trapezius. The rhomboideus 7najor arises from the upper four or five thoracic spines, and the corresponding parts of the supraspinous ligaments. Its fibres run obliquely downwards and laterally, and end in a tendinous cord, which receives insertion into the base of the scapula close to the inferior angle. From this point, up to the commencement of the spine, the tendinous cord is firmly bound to the base of the scapula by areolar tissue (Fig. 24, p. 55). The greater part of the rhomboideus major is covered by the trapezius ; only a small portion near the inferior angle of the scapula lies immediately subjacent to the deep fascia. M. Levator Scapulae (O.T. Levator Anguli Scapulae).— This is an elongated muscle which arises by four more or less tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae, and passes downwards and backwards to be inserted into the base of the scapula from the medial angle to the spine. It is supplied by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves. Dissection.—In cleaning the levator scapuke muscle care must be taken of the nerves which pass to it from the cervical plexus, and also of the dorsalis scapuke nerve and the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery which lie under cover of it near the base of the scapula. The dissector of the head and neck has an interest in the levator scapula, and when it has been studied by both dissectors it should be divided midway between its origin and insertion, and the lower portion should be turned laterally. The dorsalis scapula nerve has already been secured in the interval between the rhomboideus minor and the levator scapula, and it has still further been exposed by the reflection of tlie latter muscle. It may now be displayed in its whole length, together with the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery, which it accompanies, by reflecting the rhomboidei muscles. These should be detached from the ligamentum nucha and the vertebral spines, and be thrown laterally towards the base of the scapula. In doing this care must be taken of the serratus posterior superior, a thin muscle which lies subjacent, and is apt to be injured. Nervus Dorsalis Scapulae (O.'I’. Nerve to the Rhomboids).— This is a long slender twig which arises in the neck from the fifth cervical nerve, usually in common with the upper root