SOLE OF THE FOOT 291 nerves will be seen piercing the deep fascia in order to reach the skin. Towards the heads of the metatarsal bones the metatarsal arteries and the common plantar digital nerves are unprotected by the aponeurosis, and the dissector must proceed cautiously. The nerves and vessels which go to the medial side of the great toe and to the fibular side of the little toe are especially liable to injury, as they perforate the fascia farther back than the others. A band of transverse fibres, which crosses the roots of the toes and lies over the digital vessels and nerves, should be noticed. It is the superficial transverse ligament of the toes. It is closely connected with the skin where it forms the cutaneous webs between the toes. By forcibly separating the toes its connections will become evident. When the relations of this ligament have been studied it may be removed. Plantar Aponeurosis (O.T. Plantar Fascia).—The plantar aponeurosis, which is now brought into view, consists of three portions—{a) a medial, {p) an intermediate, and {c) a lateral part. This subdivision is indicated by a difference in the density of the three parts and by two shallow furrows which traverse the foot in a longitudinal direction, one upon either side of the strong intermediate portion of aponeurosis. Each of the three portions of fascia is in relation to a subjacent muscle. The intermediate portioti covers the flexor digitorum brevis; the lateral part clothes the abductor digit! quinti ; and the medial part covers the abductor hallucis. The intermediate portion of the plantar aponeurosis stands out in marked contrast to the lateral and medial portions in point of strength and density. Posteriorly, where it is attached to the medial tuberosity of the calcaneus, it is narrow, but it expands as it passes forwards, and, near the heads of the metatarsal bones, splits into five processes, which are bound together by transverse fibres. In the intervals between the digital slips the metatarsal vessels, the common digital nerves, and the lumbrical muscles appear. Trace the processes forwards. One goes to the root of each toe, and there divides into two slips, which embrace the flexor tendons and become fixed to the flexor sheaths, and to the transverse ligament of the heads of the metatarsal bones on either side of the toe. In its arrangement, there- fore, this portion of the plantar aponeurosis closely resembles the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis. The lateral and medial parts of the plantar aponeurosis are weak in comparison with the intermediate portion. They simply constitute aponeurotic coverings for the muscles which lie subjacent. A strong band is to be noted in connection with the lateral part. It stretches between the prominence