ABDOMEN 380 fascia differs somewhat from the same fascia in other parts of the body. It is more elastic, and this elasticity is due to the presence of elastic fibres in its deeper membranous part. Over the lower part of the linea alba the elastic tissue is generally seen collected in the form of a distinct band which, in the region of the symphysis pubis, becomes connected with the penis and its suspensory ligament. A reference to com- parative anatomy gives interest to this fact. In the human subject this elastic band is the rudimentary representative of a continuous and distinct layer of yellow elastic tissue {the abdominal tunic), which is present in the horse and other quadrupeds in which the weight of the viscera is chiefly sustained by the abdominal wall. When the two layers of the superficial fascia are followed downwards, from the front of the abdomen, the fatty layer of Camper passes over the inguinal ligament and becomes directly continuous with the fatty superficial fascia on the front of the thigh. The relations of the fascia of Scarpa are very different. In the region of the pubes it is carried con- tinuously downwards over the spermatic cords, the penis and scrotum, into the perineum, where it becomes continuous with the fascia of Codes. On the lateral side of the spermatic cord, in the region of the groin, it proceeds downwards, and ends immediately distal to the inguinal ligament by blending with the fascia lata of the thigh. These connections of the fascia of Scarpa are so important that it is necessary to undertake a special dissection, in order that they may be demonstrated. As this encroaches somewhat upon the region of the thigh, it must be done in conjunction with the dissector of the lower e.xtremity. A transverse incision should be made through the entire thickness of the superficial fascia on the front of the abdomen from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the middle line of the abdomen. On raising the lower edge of the divided fascia the two layers can be easily distinguished. Insinuate the fingers between the fascia of Scarpa and the subjacent pearly- looking tendon of the external oblique muscle. Little resistance will be met, as the fascia of Scarpa is only bound down by some lax areolar tissue. As the superficial fascia is thus raised from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the anterior cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve will be seen piercing the aponeurosis and entering the deep surface of the superficial fascia a little way above the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The fingers can be readily passed downwards behind the fascia of Scarpa as far as the inguinal ligament. Here it will be found that they can force their way no farther. The passage of the hand into the thigh is barred by the blending of the fascia of Scarpa with the fascia lata of the thigh. At this level it ceases to exist; it loses its identity by becoming fused with the deep fascia of the thigh along the line of, and immediately distal to, the inguinal ligament.