THE UPPER EXTREMITY 156 capsule consists of lax fibres which can have little influence in retaining the distal extremities of the bones in apposition. The capsule is attached to the anterior and posterior surfaces of both bones of the forearm, to the lower parts of the inter- osseous crests and to the anterior and posterior borders of the discus articularis. A diverticulum of the capsule which is prolonged from the joint area for some distance proximally, between the bones of the forearm, is called the recessus sacciformis. Discus Articularis (O.T. Triangular Fibro-Cartilage).— The discus articularis is the true bond of union at the inferior radio-ulnar joint. It has already been noticed in connection with the radio-carpal joint, where it extends the radial articular surface in a medial direction, and is interposed between the lower end of the ulna and the os lunatum. It is a thick, firm plate, attached by its base to the distal margin of the incisura ulnaris of the radius. The apex of the cartilage is directed medially, and is fixed to the depression on the distal end of the ulna at the root of the styloid process. It intervenes between the inferior radio-ulnar joint and the radio-carpal joint. Stratum Synoviale (Synovial Membrane).—The synovial membrane of the proximal radio-ulnar joint is continuous with that of the elbow-joint. It is prolonged distally so as to line the lig. annulare, and it protrudes beyond this for a short distance upon the neck of the radius. The cavity of the inferior radio-ulnar joint and the synovial membrane are prolonged between the head of the ulna and the discus articularis. Sometimes the discus articularis is perforated ; when this is the case, the inferior radio-ulnar joint-cavity communicates with the cavity of the radio-carpal joint. Membrana Interossea Antibrachii (O.T. Interosseous Mem- brane).—This is a fibrous membrane which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the forearm, and is attached to the crista interossea of each. Its proximal border is situated about an inch distal to the tubercle of the radius. Distally it blends with the capsule of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. The fibres which compose it run for the most part obliquely distally and medially from the radius to the ulna, although several slips may be noticed taking an opposite direction. The dorsal interosseous vessels pass dorsally.