313 ARTICULATIONS broader in the middle than at either extremity, which springs from the medial condyle of the femur distal to the adductor tubercle. As it descends it inclines slightly forwards, and finally it gains attachment to the margin of the medial condyle and to the proximal part of the body of the tibia below the medial condyle. The main part of the tendon of the semimembranosus extends anteriorly under cover of its posterior border to gain an insertion into the medial condyle of the tibia, whilst more distally the inferior medial genicular vessels are carried forwards between it and the bone. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus, lie upon its superficial surface, but are separated from it by an intervening bursa. The Posterior Part of the Capsule and the Ligamentum PopliteumOhliquumfO.T. Posterior Ligament).—The posterior part of the capsule extends as a continuous sheet across the posterior aspect of the joint; laterally it is continuous with the lateral part of the capsule, which lies medial to the fibular collateral ligament, and medially it fuses with the lateral surface of the. tibial collateral ligament as the latter crosses the line of the joint. The lateral head of the gastrocnemius fuses with the proximal part of its lateral portion, and the tendon of the popliteus passes through the distal part of the same portion. The medial part of the posterior portion of the capsule is separated from the medial head of the gastrocnemius by a bursa which communicates medially with the bursa which intervenes between the medial head of the gastro- cnemius and the semimembranosus, and it may communicate anteriorly with the cavity of the joint, through an aperture in the capsule. The intermediate part of the posterior portion of the capsule forms part of the anterior boundary of the fossa poplitea, and is strengthened by a strong oblique band, the oblique popliteal ligafuent, which passes proximo-laterally from the distal part of the tendon of the semimembranosus to the medial border of the lateral condyle of the femur. In addition to the apertures through which the bursa anterior to the medial head of the gastrocnemius com- municates with the cavity of the joint, and that through which the tendon of the popliteus emerges, there are several small apertures in the posterior part of the capsule for the trans- mission of vessels into the interior of the joint. Dissection,—A vertical incision should be made into the joint on either