MALE PERINEUM 355 of the inferior ramus of the ischium close to the tuber- osity. It passes medially and unites with the corresponding muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perineum. The central point of the perineum is a tendinous septum, situated in the middle line of the body, close to the posterior end of the bulb and a short distance in front of the anus. Towards this point a number of the perineal muscles converge to obtain attachment. Oji each side, it gives attachment to the superficial transverse perineal muscles; posteriorly, to the sphincter ani; anteriorly, to the posterior fibres of the bulbo- cavernosus; whilst superiorly, the anterior fibres of the levator ani descend to reach it. Musculus Bulbo-cavernosus (O.T. Ejaculator Urinse).—This muscle is spread over the bulb and posterior part of the corpus cavernosum urethrae. It is composed of two symmetrical halves, and its fibres take origin from the central point of the perineum and from a fibrous median raphe which is prolonged forwards between the two halves of the muscle. The insertion differs according to the point at which the muscle is examined. The posterior fibres are simply attached to the superficial aspect of the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm; the middle fibres, constituting the greater part of the muscle, sweep around the corpus cavernosum urethrte, so as to invest it completely, and are inserted into a common aponeurosis upon the superior surface of this portion of the penis ; lastly, the anterior fibres form two long narrow muscular bands which diverge from each other like the limbs of the letter V, and, passing forwards over the sides of the corpus cavernosum penis, are inserted into an aponeurosis on the dorsum of the penis. Thus the posterior fibres partially embrace the bulb; the middle fibres embrace the corpus cavernosum urethrae; whilst the ayiterior fibres embrace the body of the penis. The bulbo-cavernosus supports the urethra during micturition, and by its contraction it ejects the last drops of urine or semen from the passage. Musculus Ischio-cavemosus (O.T. Erector Penis).—The ischio-cavernosus lies upon the crus penis. It arises by fleshy fibres from the medial a.spect of the tuber ischiadicum, and is inserted by an aponeurotic expansion into the lower and lateral surface of the anterior portion of the crus. Perineal Nerve.—This is one of the two terminal branches