470 ABDOMEN In both cases, it occupies more space within the abdomen by the displacement of neighbouring viscera, and the pylorus moves to the right, but not as a rule more than an inch and a half, or at most two inches, from the medial plane. The pylorus does not alter in a vertical direction ■, it main- tains the same level within the abdomen. The position of the cardiac opening is only slightly affected by the emptying or the distension of the stomach. It is placed opposite the body of the tenth dorsal vertebra, and on the surface of the body its situation may be indicated by placing the finger on the seventh costal cartilage of the left side about one inch from the median plane. As the stomach fills it becomes more rounded in general outline, and should it assume the oblique position when full the fundus is directed upwards whilst the surfaces look forwards and backwards; further, the part of the greater curvature opposite the incisura angularis takes a medial position and occupies a lower level than any other part of the stomach. It follows from this that the pyloric part of the organ courses upwards and to the right to reach its termination. In considering the various conditions which determine the position and form of the full stomach it is necessary to take into account the state of the movable, and as a rule yielding, floor of the stomach chamber. It is possible that the easiest and most natural way for the stomach to expand, under ordinary circumstances, is in a downward direction by intestinal displacement, and when this occurs the oblique portion of the organ is the result. But when the intestines are distended the stomach cannot acquire the necessary space in this manner, and the liver, which forms so large a part of the roof of the stomach chamber, has to give way before it. The obvious result of such a change in the position and form of the pliant liver is that the full stomach retains the horizontal position. The dissector must remember that the above description refers to the appearance presented by the stomach fixed and hardened after death when the body is lying on its back. It probably has a very similar form and similar relations during life when the body is recumbent, but when the body is erect the oesophageal orifice and the fundus retain their close relationships to the diaphragm and the pylorus remains at the level of the transpyloric plane, but the lowest part of the great curvature descends to or below the level of the umbilicus, and the upper two-thirds of the organ becomes more tubular and lies more in a vertical plane. The Abdominal Part of the (Esophagus.—The abdominal