FOREARM AND HAND 107 two-thirds it is closely applied to the medial side of the vessel. In the forearm the ulnar nerve gives off:— 1. Rami articulares. 2. Rami Musculares, 3. Rami cutanei, / to the flexor carpi ulnaris and the medial part \ of the flexor profundus. / ramus cutaneus palmaris. \ ramus dorsalis manus. The rami articulares come from the ulnar nerve as it lies in the interval between the olecranon and medial epicondyle of the humerus, and pass to the elbow joint. The rami musculares are given off high up in the fore- arm, and supply the flexor carpi ulnaris and the medial part of the flexor digitorum profundus. The ramus cutaneus palmaris is a minute twig which has already been seen piercing the fascia of the forearm im- mediately above the transverse carpal ligament. It arises about the middle of the forearm and proceeds distally upon the ulnar artery, to the coats of which it gives line filaments. The ramus dorsalis manus is a nerve of some size which springs from the ulnar trunk about two and a half or three inches above the wrist. It winds round the medial margin of the forearm, under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and reaches the dorsum of the hand immediately below the prominence formed by the distal end of the ulna. From this point onwards it has been traced in the superficial dissec- tion (p. 96). Nervus Medianus (Median Nerve).—As its name implies, the median nerve passes down the middle of the forearm ; and to obtain an unbroken view of it, it is necessary to reflect the humeral head of the pronator teres and the radial head of the flexor digitorum sublimis. In the proximal part of the forearm the median nerve lies in the fossa cubitalis upon the medial side of the ulnar artery. It leaves this space by passing between the two heads of the pronator teres, and as it does so it crosses the ulnar artery, but is separated from the vessel by the ulnar head of the muscle. From this point the median nerve runs distally between the flexor sublimis and the flexor digitorum pro- fundus. Near the wrist it becomes superficial, and lies in the interval between the tendons of the flexor digitorum sublimis on the medial and the flexor carpi radialis on the