4T4 ABDOMEN parts. For this purpose place it in a cork-lincd tray and dissect it under water. Having fixed it to the bottom of the tray, with pins, begin by tracing tlie vessels into the gland. In doing this a tpiantity of involuntary muscular tissue spread over the posterior border of the testis and the epididymis becomes apparent. This is the inncruinsculartunic of KoUiker. Now free the tail and body of the epididymis from the back of the gland. This can be easily done by cutting the serous covering as it passes from one to the other, and breaking through the fibrous tissue which intervenes between the tail and the lower part of the body of the testis. Do not interfere with the head. When the body and tail of the epididymis are turned aside, the body of the testis may be divided trans- versely, with a sharp knife, about its middle, into an upper and a lower portion. Structure of the Testis.—The cut surface of the lower part of the body of the testis may now be studied. The dense, tough fibrous coat which envelops it, under cover of the epithelium, first attracts attention. It is called the tunica albuginea. At the posterior margin of the testis it will be seen to be projected into the interior in the form of a thick fibrous elevation. This extends along the whole length of the posterior border, and receives the name of the mediastinum testis (corpus Highmori). It is traversed by the vessels that pass into and out from the gland, and it is also tunnelled by a plexus of seminal canals, called the rete testis {Ifal/eri). From the front and sides of the mediastinum testis radiat- ing fibrous lines will be seen passing into the substance of the testis. These are the cut margins of incomplete fibrous septula which extend towards the deep surface of the tunica albuginea and become connected with it (Fig. 154). By means of these partitions and the mediastinum testis, the space enclosed by the tunica albuginea becomes broken up into a large number of lobules or compartments, two to three hundred in number, the walls of which are imperfect. Such is the fibrous framework of the body of the testicle. The blood-vessels have a very definite arrangement with reference to this framework. Passing in through the media- stinum they spread out on the deep surface of the tunica albuginea, and upon both surfaces of the fibrous septula which bound the testicular comj)artment.s. The va.scular mesh-work thus formed is sometimes called the tunica vasculosa. The proper glandular substance of the testis is lodged within the compartments described above. It consists of an enormous number of fine hair-like tubes, termed the contorted