96 THE UPPER EXTREMITY superficial division of the radial nerve, but from that branch of it which goes to the lateral margin of the thumb. It is joined by a twig from the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm, and proceeds downwards in front of the tendon of the abductor pollicis longus to end in the skin covering the ball of the thumb (Fig. 27, p. 66). Dissection.—In tracing the nerves which appear on the dorsum of the forearm, it will be necessary to remove the skin from the dorsal aspect of the thumb and fingers. The great flap of skin which is still attached at the roots of the fingers may be detached, and an incision can then be made along the middle of the dorsal aspect of each digit. The skin should be carefully raised from each finger in two flaps and thrown laterally and medially. Nervi Cutanei Dorsales (Dorsal Cutaneous Nerves).— The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve winds round the medial margin of the wrist to reach the dorsum of the hand. It will be found immediately below the prominence formed by the distal end of the ulna, and it at once divides into three main terminal branches. Of these, one runs along the ulnar margin of the dorsum of the hand, and is continued onwards along the medial margin of the little finger. The second branch proceeds towards the cleft between the little finger and the ring finger, and divides into two twigs which supply the contiguous sides of these digits. The third branch joins a twig from the superficial branch of the radial nerve, and the nerve thus formed runs towards the interval between the ring finger and the middle finger, and divides to supply their adjacent margins. Each of these three main branches gives several minute filaments to the integument on the dorsum of the hand (Fig. 28, p. 68). The superficial branch of the radial nerve will be found winding round the lateral margin of the forearm, about two inches proximal to the extremity of the styloid process of the radius. It at once gives off a long twig which proceeds along the radial margin of the hand and thumb. A little farther on it breaks up into four terminal branches, which are distributed as follows: the first supplies the medial side of the thumb; the second goes to the lateral side of the index finger; the third divides to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers; whilst the fouiih joins with a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar (as already described) to supply the contiguous margins of the middle and ring fingers.