ABDOMEN 584 ani muscles. Below the pelvic floor in this region lies the posterior part of the sphincter ani externus muscle. Peritoneal Relations of the Rectum.—These relations are of practical importance. In its upper third the gut is clothed by the peritoneum both in front and on the sides; then the peritoneum passes away from the sides, so that in its middle third the gut is covered merely in front; finally, about an inch above the base of the prostate, at the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation, the membrane quits the rectum altogether, and is reflected on to the deferent ducts and the seminal vesicles as they lie at the fundus of the bladder. The lower third of the rectum is thus altogether devoid of peritoneum. It is separated from the fundus of the bladder and the posterior surface of the prostate by the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia, and embedded in the fascia, behind the bladder, are the lower parts of the deferent ducts and the seminal vesicles. On each side of the upper part of the undistended rectum is a pararectal fossa, and each lateral wall of the lower part of the gut is supported by the corresponding levator ani muscle (Figs. 229 and 230). Flexures of the Rectum.—The rectum does not take a straight course along the back wall and floor of the pelvis. On the contrary, it presents three abrupt lateral bends or flexures, of which, as a rule, two are convex to the right and one to the left. The sharply marked infoldings of the wall of the gut opposite to the flexures are the cause of the so- called plicae transversales recti (O.T. rectal valves) in the interior of the gut. The flexures are best marked when the gut is distended, but even when it is empty they are usually quite obvious. Lying between the bladder and prostate in front and the sacrum and coccyx behind, the rectum, when empty, has its anterior wall pressed against its posterior wall, and in this condition its lumen appears, in transverse section, as a transverse slit (Fig. 231). Behind the apex of the prostate, where the gut bends to become the anal canal, its anterior wall, in the distended condition, sometimes shows a slight bulging cul-de-sac^ the ampulla recti, which gains a lower level than the prostate. Anal Canal.—This is the narrow slit-like passage about an inch and a half in length (49 mm.) which leads from the rectum