INFERIOR EXTREMITY 174 DissecHon.—Clean the great saphenous vein proxiino-distally, taking care to avoid injuring any of the branches of the cutaneous nerves which lie close to it. In the proximal part of the thigh it is accompanied by branches of the medial cutaneous nerve (O.T. internal cutaneous), one of the anterior cutaneous branches of the femoral nerve. In the distal part of the thigh it is accompanied by the anterior branch of the same nerve and it passes across the medial and posterior aspect of the knee, where it is accompanied by the saphenous nerve. Clean also the tributaries of the vein and avoid injury to the cutaneous nerves which they cross. Vena Saphena Magna (O.T. Internal Saphenous Vein).— This is the largest superficial vein of the inferior extremity. It commences on the dorsum of the foot, passes proximally anterior to the medial malleolus and across the medial surface of the distal third of the tibia, and then along the medial margin of the tibia. It enters the area of dissection at present under consideration at the level of the tuberosity of the tibia, passes proximally across the posterior part of the medial aspect of the knee, then further proximally, with an inclination anteriorly and laterally, through the medial region of the thigh to the fossa ovalis, where it pierces the fascia cribrosa and the femoral sheath and terminates in the femoral vein. In its course through the thigh it receives tributaries from the anterior and medial regions, the former constitute the lateral femoral circumflex veins and the latter the medial femoral circumflex veins; one of the latter not uncommonly connects the great saphenous veins with the small saphenous vein. Just before it pierces the fascia cribrosa the great saphenous vein is joined by the small veins which correspond with the three superficial arteries of the subinguinal region. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—The cutaneous nerves are now to be looked for in the superficial fascia. The main stems are six in number, and are derived from two sources. Three come directly from the lumbar plexus^ and three are branches of the fc)uo7'al nerve :— ( Ilio-inguinalis. From lumbar plexus, -j Lumboinguinalis. ( Lateral cutaneous of the thigh. f Intermediate cutaneous. From n. femoralis, -j Medial cutaneous. ( Saphenous. N. Ilio-inguinalis.—The ilio-inguinal nenje will be found as it escapes from the subcutaneous inguinal ring (O.T. ext. abdominal) in company with the spermatic cord. Its branches