336 INFERIOR EXTREMITY The cuboid, by an oval facet on its medial surface, articulates with the lateral or third cuneiform bone, forming thereby the cubo-cmieiform joint. The two bones are bound together by interosseous., dorsal, and pla^itar ligaments. By dividing the dorsal ligament and insinuating the knife between the two bones the interosseous ligament may be detected. It is the strongest of the three ligaments. The synovial membra?ie which lines the naviculo-cuneiform articulation is prolonged into the cubo-cuneiform joint and also into the naviculo-cuboid joint when that exists. Tarso-metatarsal Articulations.—The bases of the five metatarsal bones articulate with the three cuneiform bones and the cuboid bone, and are very firmly attached to them by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are flat, distinct bands which can readily be defined. One such ligament passes to the base of the first metatarsal from the medial or first cuneiform; three, one from each of the cuneiform bones, proceed to the base of the second metatarsal; 07ie extends from the lateral or third cuneiform to the base of the third metatarsal; two, of which one proceeds from the lateral cuneiform and the other from the cuboid, go to the base of the fourth metatarsal; and one passes from the cuboid to the base of the fiftli metatarsal. The plafitar ligaments are not so regularly disposed. Those in connection with the first and second metatarsal bones are very strong. Some of the bands have an oblique direction, and those which go to the bases of the three intermediate metatarsal bones are more or less connected with the sheath of the tendon of the peronseus longus, and therefore with the long plantar ligament. To bring the interosseous liganmits into view, divide freely the dorsal ligaments, and then forcibly bend the metatarsus distally upon the tarsus. The interosseous ligaments will resist this proceeding, and on looking into the joints they will be seen stretched and tense. If the force be continued they will rupture. The interosseous ligaments are three in number, viz. a medial, an intermediate, and a lateral. The medial interosseous liga?nent is an exceedingly strong band, which passes laterally from the anterior part of the lateral surface of the medial cuneiform bone to the adjacent surface of the base of the second metatarsal bone. The