ABDOMINAL CAVITY 447 extremity of the small curvature. Trace the right gastric artery to its origin from the hepatic artery and follow the latter upwards, in the right border of the lesser omentum, to its division into right and left branches immediately below the porta hepatis. On the walls of the artery some of the fibres of the hepatic plexus of sympathetic nerves may be recognised, and at its side some of the hepatic lymph glands may be seen. Clean both terminal branches of the hepatic artery carefully, especially the right branch which passes either anterior or posterior to the hepatic duct. To the right of the hepatic artery find the common bile duct, trace it downwards to the point where it dis- appears behind the first part of the duodenum and upwards to the upper border of the lesser omentum, where it is formed by the union of the commo7i hepatic duct with the cystic.diut. Follow the cystic duct to the neck of the gall-bladder, noting that it makes an S-shaped bend. Continue the incision already made in the gall-bladder into the cystic duct and note that the spiral arrangement of the mucous membrane is continued into the duct. Follow the common hepatic duct upwards into the porta hepatis, to the point • where it is formed by the union of the right and left hepatic ducts which come respectively from the right and left lobes of the liver. Clean away the fascia from between the hepatic artery and the common bile duct and display the portal vem which lies behind them. Trace it upwards to its division into right and left branches, at the porta hepatis, and downwards to the first part of the duodenum where it disappears from view at the present stage of dissection. Note that the portal vein lies immediately in front of the epiploic foramen (Winslow) and that its posterior surface is covered by the peritoneum of the anterior margin of the foramen. Omentum Majus (The Greater Omentum).—After he has displayed and studied the structures situated between the two layers of the small omentum the dissector should examine the greater omentum. It hangs down, like an apron, before the viscera which lie in the lower part of the abdomen. It is a double fold of peritoneum and consists, therefore, of two anterior and two posterior layers, the former being separated from the latter by a portion of the cavity of the omental bursa. The upper margins of the two anterior layers are attached to the lower part of the great curvature of the stomach, where they become continuous with the peritoneum on the anterior and posterior surfaces of that viscus. To the left and above, the two anterior layers are continuous with the two layers of the gastro-lienal ligament, but at a lower level the two anterior layers become continuous with the two posterior layers at the free left border. Similarly at the lower and the right margins of the greater omentum the two anterior become continuous with the two posterior layers. The upper margins of the two posterior layers are attached H to the lower border of the transverse colon, and, through the i peritoneum on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the P latter, they become continuous with the two layers of the trans- I verse meso-colon, which attaches the transverse colon to the