INFERIOR EXTREMITY 312 insertion of the quadriceps extensor muscle. Its anterior surfaces and margins should be carefully defined. The ligamentufn patella is a strong band, about two inches long, which is attached proximally to the apex and distal border of the patella, and distally to the proximal part of the l tuberosity of the tibia. Its superficial fibres are directly continuous over the surface of the patella with the central part of the common tendon of the quadriceps extensor. Its deep surface is separated proximally from the synovial mem- brane by the infrapatellar pad of fat, and distally it is separated from the anterior surface of the proximal end of the tibia by the deep infrapatellar bursa. Dissection.—The fibular collateral ligament may be exposed by removing the fascia lata which covers it, and ‘ by carefully cleaning the tendon of insertion of the biceps femoris. By this proceeding the inferior lateral genicular artery will be displayed as it extends forwards to the front of the joint. Ligamentum Collaterale Fibulare (O.T. External Lateral Ligament).—This is rounded and cord-like. It stands well away from the joint cavity, and is attached proximally to a tubercle on the lateral tuberosity of the femur. Distally, it is fixed to a depression on the head of the fibula anterior to the apex. It is closely associated with the tendon of the biceps femoris and the tendon of the popliteus. It splits the tendon of the biceps into two pieces, and extends distally between them to its fibular attachment. The tendon of the popliteus takes origin from the lateral condyle of the femur distally and anteriorly to the femoral attachment of the fibular collateral ligament. As the tendon proceeds backwards it is placed under cover of the ligament. An additional slip is sometimes described as the posterior part of the fibular collateral ligament. When present it ends above in the capsule, under cover of the lateral head of the gastrocnemius. Below, it is im- planted into the apex of the head of the fibula. Ligamentum Collaterale Tibiale (O.T. Internal Lateral Liga- ment).—The tibial collateral ligament is a long, flat band. Fibulae collateral ligament Popliteus Lateral meniscus Biceps femoris Fig. 115.—The Fibular Collateral Ligament of the Knee-joint.