54i ABDOMINAL CAVITY common iliacs, the single branches have already been described. The middle sacral artery will be examined when the pelvis is dissected. The paired branches may now be examined. Arteriae Phrenicse Inferiores (Inferior Phrenic Arteries). — These have already been noticed upon the under sur- face of the diaphragm. They are two in number, and are the first branches which spring from the abdominal aorta. Diverging from each other, the artery of the right side passes behind the inferior vena cava, whilst the artery of the left side goes behind the oesophagus. Near the posterior border of the central tendon of the diaphragm each divides into a lateral and a medial branch. The lateral branch pro- ceeds laterally to anastomose with the intercostal arteries, whilst the medial branch curves forwards in front of the central tendon, and ends by anastomosing with its fellow, and with the terminal branches of the internal mammary artery. Each phrenic artery, in addition to the branches which it supplies to the diaphragm, gives a twig, called the superior suprarenal artery^ to the suprarenal gland. On the left side it also sends a few minute branches to the oesophagus. The phrenic veins open into the inferior vena cava. Arterise Suprarenales Mediae (O.T. Middle Capsular Arteries).—The middle suprarenal arteries are two small vessels which arise, one from each side of the aorta, at the same level as the superior mesenteric. They run laterally and upwards, in front of the crura of the diaphragm, to the suprarenal glands, into the substance of which they sink. On the right side the middle suprarenal artery passes behind the inferior vena cava. They anastomose freely with the superior and inferior capsular arteries. The right siiprarenal vein opens into the inferior vena cava, whilst the left vein ends in the renal or phrenic vein. Arterise Renales (Renal Arteries).—When compared with the organs which they supply, the renal arteries are dispro- portionately large. Only a small part of the blood which they carry to the kidneys is used for the nourishment of the gland substance. The kidneys are excretory organs, and it is necessary that the blood should pass to them in large quantity in order that certain materials may be removed from it. The renal arteries take origin about a quarter of an inch below the superior mesenteric. Each artery proceeds laterally at right angles tO the aorta, and, approaching the kidney.