368 ABDOMEN pierced in the centre by a circular opening or a vertical slit j again, it may be cribriform or fringed along its free margin. Lastly, it may constitute a complete septum across the opening of the vaginal canal. In this case awkward results ensue from the retention of the menstrual fluid. After it has been ruptured its position is marked by certain rounded elevations which have received the name of caruncula hymenales. Close to each side of the vaginal orifice, in the groove between it and the posterior part of the labium minus, is the opening of the duct of the large vestibular {Bartholm's) glafjd, an orifice just visible to the naked eye. Passage of Catheter and Examination of Os Uteri.—The dissector should now practise the passing of the female catheter, and afterwards introduce a speculum into the vagina, so as to obtain a view of the os uteri. In passing the catheter the forefinger of the left hand should be placed in the orifice of the vagina, with its palmar surface directed upwards towards the pubes. If the instrument be now passed along this finger and the point raised slightly, when it reaches the entrance to the vagina, a little manipula- tion will cause it to enter the urethra. When the speculum is introduced into the vagina, the points to be noted in connection with the os uteri are;—(i) the small size of the opening; (2) the two rounded and thick lips which bound this aperture. In both the virgin and in women who have borne children it is a transverse cleft, but in the former it is small and its anterior and posterior lips are smooth and rounded, whilst in the latter it is usually larger and its lips are frequently cleft and scarred. Note further that the anterior lip is the thicker and shorter of the two, whilst the posterior lip is the longer. KefLection of Skin.—The anal canal should be slightly filled with tow, and the vulva and anal orifice stitched up.—Incisions—(i) A transverse in- cision should, in the first place, be carried from one ischial tuberosity to the other, in front of the anus. (2) The urogenital fissure and the orifice of the anus should next be closely encircled by incisions, and these joined by a cut along the middle line. (3) Lastly, carry an incision forwards from the second or third piece of the coccyx along the middle line to the cut which surrounds the anus. Four flaps are thus marked out ; the two anterior may be thrown for- wards and laterally, and the two posterior b.ackwards and laterally. Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia of the perineum