PELVIS 621 the organ. It covers only the upper two-thirds of this surface, and is then reflected on to the fundus of the bladder. 'I'he vagina, therefore, receives a partial covering of peritoneum posteriorly, but is altogether devoid of peritoneum anteriorly. The whole of the supra-vaginal portion of the posterior surface of the uterus is covered, but only the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface. From each lateral border of the uterus the peritoneum extends laterally in the form of a wing-like fold, the broad liga??ieni, which connects the uterus with the side wall of the pelvis. Upon the upper surface of the bladder the peritoneum varium Lig. of ovary j of ovary infundibulu Meso-salpinx Kiesovariurn Mciomeirium Anterior Body of Fundus wall of .\mpulla of uterine tube Meso* Utenne tube vagina ^pDdices psicuN^si Morgagni Epoophoron V . at. border of broad lig.'' / Corpus luteuni V/ ^ Ovary Lig. of Ovary Lower border of broad lig. Ger\* Os uteri externum. Fig. 246. — The Uterus, the Uterine Tubes, the Ovaries, the Broad Liga- ments, and the upper part of the Vagina seen from behind. The posterior wall of the uterine cavity has been removed, and the left Uterine Tube and the upper part of the Vagina have been opened. passes forwards, and at the apex it is conducted upwards to the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall by the urachus, over which it forms a fold known as the mediati umbilical fold. From each lateral border of the upper sur- face of the bladder the peritoneum extends outwards to the lateral wall of the pelvis, forming the lateral false ligaments. Ligamenta Lata Uteri (Broad Ligaments of the Uterus).— Each broad ligament is a wide fold composed of two layers of peritoneum. It stretches from the lateral border of the uterus to the lateral wall of the pelvis on the same side. The greater part of the superior or anterior border of the ligament is occupied by the uterhie tube. The smaller part, which extends beyond the tube, forms the suspensory ligament of the ovary, and contains the ovarian vessels and nerves. The