MEDIAI. SIDE OF THE THIGH 2'5 Dissection.—Divide the femoral vessels, and the femoral nerve, about an inch distal to the inguinal ligament, and having tied them together with twine throw them distally. Now cut through the sartorius and the rectus femoris, about two inches from their origins, and turn them aside. The tendon of the ilio-psoas must ne.xt be detached from its insertion and, with the muscle, turned upwards. This will e.xpose tlie anterior surface of the capsule of the hip-joint. An intervening bursa mucosa will also be displayed. Open this and ascertain its extent by introducing the finger. It facilitates the play of the ilio-psoas upon the front of the hip-joint, and in some cases its cavity will be found to be directly continuous with the cavity of the joint through an aperture in the capsular ligament. The intimate con- nection which exists between the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendon of the gluUeus minimus, the reflected head of the rectus femoris, and the deep layer of the tractus ilio-tibialis, should be noticed. Lastly, turn aside the tensor fascue laUe, and carefully clean the anterior aspect of the capsule of the hip-joint. At the end of the fifth day the dissector must paint the various parts of the anterior and medial regions of the thigh with preservative solution, replace them in position and fix the skin flaps over them w'ith a few points of suture. On the morning of the sixth day after the subject has been brought into the dissecting-room, it is placed upon the table with its face downwards and its thorax and pelvis supported by blocks. In this position it is allowed to remain for five days, and during this time the dissector of the low’er extremity has a very extensive dissection to perform. He has to dissect—(i) the glutfeal region ; (2) the proximal part of the fossa poplitea ; and (3) the posterior region of the thigh. With so much work before him, and being limited as to the time in which it must be done, it is necessary that he should apportion the four days at his disposal so as to complete the dissection before the body is turned again. The first hvo days he should devote to the study ot the glutteal region ; the third and fourth days may be given to the fossa poplitea; and on the fifth day he should undertake the dissection of the back of the thigh, and revise the work of the four preceding days. GLUT/E A L REGION. In this region the following are the parts which will be displayed in the course of the dissection :— 1. .Superficial fascia. 2. Cutaneous nerves and blood-vessels. 3. Deep fascia, r—146