495 ABDOMINAL CAVITY dices epiploicce. The external longitudinal muscular fibres have also been observed to be disposed in three flat bands. These begin on the cajcum at the base of the vermiform process. From this they diverge, so as to take up positions on different aspects of the gut. They are placed as follows:—(i) One in relation to the attached surface (tfenia mesocolica); (2) the second upon the anterior aspect (taenia libera); (3) and the third along the medial aspect of the gut (taenia omen- talis), but, in the case of the transverse colon, the latter band is in relation to the inferior aspect of the tube. The inter?ial circular muscular fibres are most distinct in the constrictions between the sacculi, but constitute a thin uniform layer over the entire extent of the gut. The submucous coat is in no respect different from the corresponding coat in the small intestine. Flexura Colica Sinistra (O.T. The Splenic Flexure of the Colon).—The splenic flexure is situated in the left hypo- chondriac region in close relation with the lower end of the spleen, the tail of the pancreas, and the lateral border of the left kidney. It is closely attached to the left extremity of the anterior border of the pancreas by the left portion of the transverse meso-colon, to the stomach by the upper end of the left border of the greater omentum, and to the abdominal surface of the diaphragm, opposite the eleventh rib in the mid-axillary line, by the phrenico-colic ligament. It is, therefore, a more fixed, and it is also a more acute, flexure than the hepatic flexure. Colon Descendens (The Descending Colon).—The descend- ing colon commences at the splenic flexure in the left hypo- chondriac region, descends along the lower part of the lateral border of the left kidney, turns slightly medially to the apex of the lower pole of the kidney, and then descends, vertically, to the left iliac crest, where it becomes the iliac colon. Its length varies from four to six inches. Like the ascending colon it is covered in front and on each side by peritoneum, and its posterior surface is in relation with the extra-peritoneal fat which separates it from the fascia in front of the quadratus lumborum and the medial part of the aponeurosis of origin of the transversalis abdominis. Its posterior and anterior relations are similar to those of the ascending colon (see p. 490- The Iliac Colon.—This portion of the colon commences