444 ABDOMEN Vesica Fellea (The Gall-Bladder).—Pull the liver upwards and to the right and examine the position, the attachments, and the connections of the gall-bladder. It is a small pyriform sac, with a capacity of from one to two ounces. It lies in the right hypochondriac region close to the right lateral plane. Its lower extremity or fundus projects below the lower margin of the anterior surface of the liver, at the level of the right ninth costal cartilage, in the right lateral plane and immediately to the right of the lateral border of the right rectus abdominis muscle. From this point the body of the organ runs upwards, backwards, and to the left, to the right extremity of the porta hepatis, where a constricted portion of its upper end, called the 7ieck, becomes continuous with the cystic duct which connects the gall-bladder with the common bile-duct. The upper and anterior surface of the body of the gall-bladder is embedded in a sulcus on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, which is called the fossa for the gall- bladder, and it is attached to the liver by areolar tissue and by a number of small veins which pass from the gall-bladder into the sub- stance of the liver, where they com- municate with branches of the portal vein. The fundus and the lower or posterior surface are covered with peritoneum, and the lower surface is in contact, posteriorly and above, with the first and second parts of the duodenum, and below with the transverse colon. The cystic duct is enclosed in the right extremity of the upper border of the small omentum. CYST. DUCT. Fig. i68. — Diagram of the Cystic and Hepatic Ducts. (From Gegenbaur, modified.) Dissection.—Make a longitudinal incision tlirougli the lower surface of the gall-bladder from the fundus to the neck and examine the strueture of its walls and its lining membrane. In addition to its partial serous cover- ing it has (i) a strong coat composed of muscular and white fibrous tissue, and (2) an internal mucous coat. The mucous membrane is stained green by the bile and it presents a honeycombed appearance, being raised into numerous ridges which surround polygonal depressions ; in the neck the ridges assume a spiral form and constitute the so-called spiral valve of Ileister which is continued into the cystic duct. To olitain a satisfactory view of the lesser omentum and its contents the left lobe of the liver must lie removed. Cut through it from before back-