598 ABDOMEN third and fourth sacral nerves pass to its walls. Whilst the pelvic fascia is being removed from the sacral region care must be taken not to injure the sacro-pudendal and coccygeal plexuses and their roots and the sympathetic cord, which all lie immediately behind the fascia. The lateral sacral arteries will serve as useful guides, for as they run medially, from the posterior division of the hypogastric artery, they lie in front of the sacral plexus, and as one or other of them descends along the front of the sacrum it lies immediately to the lateral side of the sympathetic cord and across the roots of the sacral nerves as they issue from the anterior sacral foramina. Pelvic Blood-Vessels.—The pelvic arteries are the following :— 1. The hypogastric and its branches (upon each side). 2. The middle sacral ) , ,. , , , T,, . , u -j 1 1 (near the median plane). 3. i he superior hfemorrhoidal j ' r / Arteria Hypogastrica (O.T. Internal Iliac Artery).—The hypogastric artery is the medial terminal branch of the , common iliac artery; it is a short, wide vessel, about one and a half inches long (37 mm.) and much smaller in the adult than the external iliac artery. It commences opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, at the level of the lumbo-sacral articulation ; it runs downwards and backwards in the pelvis, and ends, near the upper border of the great sciatic notch, by dividing into an anterior and a posterior division. Relations.—To its lateral side are the obturator nerve, and, at a higher level, the external iliac vein, which separates it from the medial border of the psoas. In fro7it is the ureter, and behind is the hypogastric vein. Medially it is covered by peritoneum, which separates the right artery from coils of the ileum and the left from the pelvic colon. In the female the ovary and the ovarian end of the Fallopian tube are anterior relations of the artery and of the ureter, from both of which they are separated by the parietal peritoneum. Condition in the Foetus.—Very different is the condition < of the hypogastric artery in the foetus. It is twice as large | as the external iliac artery. Instead of terminating at the sciatic notch it runs forwards and ascends, on the posterior aspect of the anterior abdominal wall, to the umbilicus, through which it passes, in company with its fellow of the opposite side and the umbilical vein. Outside the abdominal cavity the hypogastric arteries enter the umbilical cord, and, twining spirally round the umbilical vein, they reach the placenta, where the impure blood which they carry is brought into relation with the maternal blood.