SOLE OF THE FOOT 295 as it proceeds forwards it appears in the interval between this muscle and the flexor digitorum brevis. Finally, at the root of the great toe it ends by joining the plantar digital artery to the medial side of the hallux. The branches which proceed from the medial plantar are small but very numerous. They are—(i) three twigs which accompany the common digital branches of the medial plantar nerve to the clefts between the four medial toes—these end by joining the corresponding metatarsal arteries; (2) a series of cutaneous branches to the skin of the sole, which pierce the aponeurosis in the furrow between its medial and inter- mediate parts; (3) a number of branches to the muscles in the vicinity; (4) som.e offsets which pass medially under cover of the abductor hallucis to reach the medial border of the foot. Art. Plantaris Lateralis (O.T. External Plantar Artery). —This vessel is much larger than the medial plantar. It is accompanied by the lateral plantar nerve and two vence comites. From its origin in the hollow of the calcaneus it proceeds laterally, across the sole, to reach the interval between the flexor digitorum brens and the abductor digiti quinti. In this interval it is continued forwards for a short distance, and then, at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, it turns suddenly to the medial side, and crosses the sole a second time, under cover of the flexor tendons, forming the plantar arch. In the present stage of the dissection it is only displayed as far as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Between its origin and this point its relations are as follows:—(i) It is placed between the abductor hallucis and the hollow of the calcaneus ; (2) it lies between the flexor digitorum brevis and the quad- ratus plantre; (3) it occupies the interval between the flexor digitorum brevis and the abductor digiti quinti. In this latter situation it is near the surface, and is merely covered by the integument and fasciae. The branches which proceed from this part of the vessel are —(i) twigs to the neighbouring muscles; (2) medial calcanean branches which arise near its origin, and gain the heel by piercing the origin of the abductor hallucis; (3) cutaneous branches which appear through the plantar aponeurosis along the line of the lateral intermuscular septum; (4) twigs to the lateral margin of the foot which anastomose with the tarsal and arcuate branches of the dorsalis pedis.