388 ABDOMEN corresponding fibres of the other side, and are inserted into the front of the opposite pubic bone. The lateral or inferior crus is simply the medial end of the inguinal ligament. It is, therefore, thick and strong, and is fixed to the pubic tubercle. The spermatic cord, as it issues from the sub- cutaneous inguinal ring, rests upon the lateral crus. The size of the subcutaneous inguinal ring is very variable. In the male the average length may be said to be one inch, and the breadth about half an inch. In the female it is much smaller, and the round ligament of the uterus which passes through it ends in the superficial fascia of the groin. On a close inspection of the lower part of the external abdominal aponeurosis, the student will observe a number of cross fibres arching over its surface. These are called the fibrae intercrurales, and in some cases they are very strongly marked. They begin at the inguinal ligament, close to the iliac spine, and curve upwards and medially, upon the aponeurosis, above the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The function of these fibres is very evident, and the term “ inter- crural" is derived from the part which they play. They bind together the two crura of the ring, and prevent their further separation or divarication. There is a direct con- tinuity between the intercrural fibres and the external spermatic fascia which clothes the cord, and consequently, as already stated, the term “ intercrural ” is frequently applied to the latter. Eeflection of the Obliquus Externus.—Between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the posterior border of the external oblique muscle is free, and as this border will be examined when the body is placed on its face it must not be disturbed at present. Begin by detaching the upper six serrations of the muscle from the ril>s ; from the interval between the sixth and seventh serrations carry an incision downwards, through the fibres of the muscle, to the posterior border of the tubercle on the lateral lip of the iliac crest. Raise the anterior portion of the muscle from the surface of the subjacent internal oblique and turn it medially, dividing the fleshy fibres inserted into the iliac crest close to the bone. Next divide the aponeurosis horizontally, in a line leading from the anterior superior spine to the lateral border of the rectus. The greater part of the muscular and aponeurotic portion of the external oblicpie can now be thrown medially. The dissector must proceed with care on approaching the lateral border of the rectus, because a little beyond this the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique fuses with the deep surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Define the line of union, and notice that it does not extend beyond the lower margin of the thorax. Above this the rectus is simply covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; its outer margin in this locality is bare, and the hand can be freely passed between it and the costal cartilages.