PELVIS 6i I 1—39 a the two left folds are situated, one an inch and a half above the right fold, and the other the same distance below it (Birmingham). The Structure of the Walls of the Bladder.—The bladder possesses the following five coats :— I. Serous. 2. Subserous. 3. Muscular. 4. Submucous. 5. Mucous. The serous or peritoneal covering has already been examined. The subserous coat is a thin stratum of areolar tissue which connects the peritoneum with the muscular coat. The Muscular Coat.—The fibres of the muscular wall of the bladder are arranged in three layers:— I. External longitudinal fibres. 2. Circular fibres. 3. Internal longi- tudinal fibres. The external longitudinal fibres, frequently spoken of as the detrusor nrince, spring from the back of the pubic bones, the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and the base of the prostate. They ascend from these attachments over the anterior border and the medial parts of the infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder. At the apex a few pass into the urachus, but the majority pass backwards over the superior surface and the base of the bladder to the prostate, to which they are attached. On the lateral parts of the infero-lateral surfaces and on the lateral borders of the bladder this layer is less complete, and the fibres take a more oblique direction. The circular fibres are arranged in coarse bundles, which run obliquely as well as circularly round the bladder and constitute the greater part of its muscular coat. At the internal urethral orifice the bundles become finer and are massed together to form a sphincter, the fibres of which are more or less continuous with those of the prostate. The internal longitudinal fibres are absent on the fundus, and form only an incomplete layer on the other walls of the bladder. The Submucous Coat is a layer of loose areolar tissue which forms a loose connection between the mucous and muscular coats, except in the region of the trigone where the connection is much closer. The blood-vessels and nerves ramify in the submucous layer before they enter the mucous coat. The Mucous Coat was examined when the bladder was opened (p. 571).