498 ABDOMEN venience of description the duodenum is divided into four parts (i) superior, (2) descending, (3) inferior, (4) ascending. The greater portion of the first part is surrounded by peritoneum which is continuous below with the great omentum and above with the gastro-hepatic omentum, but its terminal portion is devoid of peritoneum posteriorly and inferiorly. The second part is covered by the peritoneum in front, and on the right side, except where it is crossed by the transverse colon, the third part is covered in front and below, and the fourth part is covered in front and on the left side. The remaining surfaces of the second, third, and fourth parts of the duodenum are devoid of peritoneum, and they lie in relation either with other viscera, with large blood-vessels, or with the posterior wall of the abdomen. Pars Superior.—The first part of the duodenum is two inches in length, it lies in the epigastric region, and for about an inch or more from the pylorus it is enveloped by the same two layers of peritoneum which invest the stomach, consequently it enjoys a limited degree of movement; in its terminal part it is only covered on its anterior and superior surfaces by the peritoneum. Its position and relations are dependent upon the degree of distension of the stomach. When that viscus is empty and the pylorus, in consequence, lies close to the medial plane, the first part of the duodenum passes backwards and to the right, with a slightly upward inclination, in correspondence with the slope of the visceral surface of the liver, until it reaches the neck of the gall-bladder. Here it ends by bending suddenly downwards into the second part. Under these circumstances the superior part of the duodenum lies in close apposition with the lobus quadratus of the liver. When the stomach, on the other hand, is dis- tended the pylorus comes into relation with the lobus quadratus, and the superior part of the duodenum is some- what shortened and proceeds straight backwards. It then occupies only the posterior part of its original situation, and its termination is lodged in a depression at the right end of the porta hepatis. The relations of the first part of the duodenum are as follows: above and m front, the under surface of the liver; below, the pancreas ; behind, the common bile-duct, the gastro-duodenal artery, the upper part of the neck of the pancreas, and the portal vein. Pars Descendens.—The second part of the duodenum is 1