ABDOMEN 45° of the lesser omentum. First cut through the posterior layer along the left border of the hepatic artery, then carry the incision upwards along the margin of the fossa for the ductus venosus. Finally cut through the posterior layer for a short distance along the lesser curvature of the stomach, above the left gastric artery^ and turn the separated portion of the posterior layer of the lesser omentum to the left over the stomach. Again introduce the hand from the lower part into the upper part of the omental bursa and examine again the constriction of the cavity between the oesophageal and pyloric ends of the stomach and the pancreatico-gastric folds which cause it. It is not possible to make a thorough examination of the cavity of the omental bursa till the stomach, which lies in its anterior wall, has been turned aside. Divide the right gastric artery and the right gastro-epiploic artery immediately to the left of the pylorus, then cut through the stomach in the same situation and turn it over to the left side. The greater part of the anterior wall of the omental bursa is now removed, and the cavity and the remaining boundaries can be examined. The Cavity of the Omental Bursa extends from the lower margin of the greater omentum below to the liver above, and a narrow, pouch-like recess is prolonged upwards, behind the liver, to the under surface of the diaphragm. The posterior wall of the sac is formed from below upwards by the two posterior layers of the great omentum, the transverse colon, covered by peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, and, above the line of attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the posterior abdominal wall, by the upper of the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, the so-called ascending layer,'’’ which passes upwards, in front of the pancreas, the upper and medial part of the left kidney, the left suprarenal gland and the crura of the diaphragm, to the under surface of the diaphragm from which it is reflected forwards to the upper part of the posterior surface of the liver. The outline of the pancreas can be seen through the thin peritoneum and the kidney, and the supra- renal glands, if not visible, are easily felt. The narrow, pouch-like upper portion of the cavity of the omental bursa is bounded behind, as already stated, by the peritoneum on the abdominal surface of the crura of the diaphragm; above by the reflection of the peritoneum forwards to the posterior surface of the liver; in front by the peritoneum on the posterior surface of a small subdivision of the posterior aspect of the right lobe of the liver called the caudate lobe (O.T. Spigelian); on the left by the reflection of the posterior layer of the small omentum from the margin of the fossa for the ductus venosus to the crura of the diaphragm ; and to the right by the reflection of the peritoneum from the right crus of the diaphragm to the right lateral margin of the caudate lobe.