ABDOMEN 546 Vena Iliaca Externa (External Iliac Vein).—This, the con- tinuation of the femoral vein, enters the pelvis by passing up- wards behind the inguinal ligament. It lies at first along the medial side of the artery of the same name, but on a plane somewhat posterior to it, and higher up on the right side it gets completely behind the artery. At the level of the lumbo- sacral articulation it ends by joining the hypogastric vein in the formation of the common iliac vein. Immediately before its termination it passes to the lateral side of the hypogastric artery—between the artery and the psoas magnus muscle. Its tributaries are the veins corresponding to the deep circum- flex iliac artery and the inferior epigastric artery. Deep Lymph Glands. — The dissector has, doubtless, noticed a chain of lymph glands in connection with the external iliac artery, the common iliac artery, and also extend- ing upwards upon the vertebral column in relation to the aorta and inferior vena cava. The exterrial iliac glafids are in two groups—a lower and an upper. The former consists of three glands placed one on each side and one in front of the external iliac artery, and immediately above the inguinal liga- ment. The medial gland receives the deep femoral lymphatic vessels; into the anterior gland' is poured the lymph which is drained from the district supplied by the inferior epigastric artery; whilst the lateral gland receives the lymph from the district supplied by the deep circumflex iliac artery. The efferent vessels from the lower group enter the higher group of glands, and from these the lymph is passed on to the common iliac and lumbar glands. The glands in relation to either side of the aorta and inferior vena cava are both numerous and large, and are called the media7i lumbar gla?ids. Their efferent vessels terminate in two common lumbar lymphatic trunks, which open into the cisterna chyli. Cisterna Chyli (O.T. Receptaculum Chyli).—This is the dilated commencement of the thoracic duct. It is placed upon the bodies of the first and second lumbar vertebra;, in the interval between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta. ']’o bring it into view, it is necessary to separate the right crus from the lumbar vertebras and pull it aside. When fully dis- played, the cisterna chyli is seen to be a narrow elongated sac, about two inches in length, which receives at its lower end the two common lumbar lymphatic trunks, whilst