DORSUM OF THE ARM 87 the humerus by dividing into two terminal branches, viz. the ramus superficialis (O.T. radial) and the ramus profundus (O.T. posterior interosseous). The radial nerve presents, therefore, very different relations as it is traced from its origin to its termination: (i) between the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major, and long head of the triceps which support it behind, and the axillary and brachial arteries which are placed in front of it; (2) between the long and the medial heads of the triceps; (3) in the sulcus for the radial nerve between the bone and the lateral head of the triceps ; (4) in the interval between the brachialis on the medial, and the brachioradialis and extensor carpi radialis longus on the lateral side. The branches which proceed from the radial nerve are viuscular, cutaneous, and terminal. The cutaneous branches are two in number, and have already been traced. They are—(i) the n. cutaneus brachii posterior, and (2) and (3) the nervi cutanei antibrachii dorsales. The muscular branches are distributed to the three heads of the triceps, to the anconaeus, to the lateral fibres of the brachialis, to the brachic-radialis, and to the extensor carpi radialis longus. The branches to the three last-named muscles spring from the trunk of the nerve after it has pierced the lateral intermuscular septum. The branch to the medial head of the triceps is a long slender nerve, termed the ulnar collateral nerve, on account of its association with the ulnar nerve in the arm. The branch to the anconaeus is a long slender twig which passes through the substance of the medial head of the triceps on its way to the anconaeus (F"ig. 37). The terminal branches are the ramus superficialis (O.T. radial), which is a purely cutaneous nerve, and the ramus profundus (O.T. posterior interosseous), which is continued into the dorsal part of the forearm as the dorsal interosseous nerve, and is distributed to the muscles on the dorsal aspect of the forearm, and to the radiocarpal joint. These nerves will be followed later. Arteria Profunda Brachii (O.T. Superior Profunda Artery). —This artery has been already observed to take origin from the brachial trunk, immediately below the lower margin of the teres major muscle. It accompanies the radial nerve and its relations to the three heads of the triceps and the sulcus for the radial nerve of the humerus are exactly the same as 1—66