16 THE UPPER EXTREMITY the coracoid process; this portion is frequently called the costo-coracoid ligament. The membrane is continuous below with the fascial sheath of the pectoralis minor and posteriorly with the fascial sheath of the axillary vessels. It is perforated, above the upper border of the pectoralis minor, by the cephalic vein, the thoraco-acromial artery, and the lateral anterior thoracic nerve. Note that the fibres of the membrane run medio-Iaterally, that they are put on the stretch when the arm is abducted, and that they are relaxed when the arm is by the side. The surgeon takes advantage of these facts when he is ligaturing the first part of the axillary artery. Axillary sheath Axillary fascia Clavicle Subclavius Thoraco-acromial artery first rib Costo-coracoiil membrane Axillary artery Fig. 7.—Diagram of the Costo-coracoid Membrane. Dissection.—Cut through tlie anterior layer of the upper part of the costo-coracoid membrane and expose the subclavius muscle. Pass the handle of a knife below the lower border of the subclavius and upwards behind the muscle and demonstrate the posterior layer of the upper part of the membrane. Clear away the remains of the membrane and follow the cephalic vein to its junction with the axillary vein, the thoraco-acromial artery to the axillary trunk, and tlie lateral anterior thoracic nerve to the lateral cord of the brachial ple.xus. Clean the upjier parts of the axillary artery and vein and the lateral cord of the brachial plexus. Note that the axillary vein lies to the medial side of the artery on a somewhat anterior ]ilane, and that as the arm is abducted from tlie side the vein passes more and more in front of the artery. The lateral cord of the plexus lies to the lateral side of the artery and on a posterior jilane. behind the upper border of the iiectoralis minor lind the medial anterior thoracic nerve, and note that an anastomosis is formed between the medial and lateral anterior thoracic nerve across the front of the artery and behind the costo-coracoid membrane.