ABDOMINAI, WALL 381 Towards the pubes the finger can be pushed downwards behind the fascia of Scarpa and along the spermatic cord into tlie perineum. No barrier opposes the passage of the finger in this direction. The continuity of the fascia of Scarpa and the fascia of Colles is thus demonstrated. If the dissector now recalls the fact that in the urethral triangle of the perineum the fascia of Colles is attached laterally to the margins of the pubic arch, and posteriorly to the base of the urogenital diaphragm, whilst above the level of the pubic crests it is continuous with the fascia of Scarpa on the front of the abdominal wall, he will have little difficulty in understanding the course which urine takes when extrava- sated from a rupture of the urethra in front of the urogenital diaphragm. The effused fluid is directed upwards into the scrotum over the penis, and along the spermatic cords to the front of the abdomen. From the abdomen it cannot pass downwards to the front of the thighs, owing to the attachment of Scarpa’s fascia to the fascia lata. Unless vent be given to it by early and free incisions, it will continue to ascend over the abdomen. Cutaneous Nerves.—A dissection must now be made of the cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. These are arranged on the same plan as the cutaneous nerves of the thorax. We have therefore to look for an anterior and a lateral series. .Anterior series. Lateral series. f I. Anterior cutaneous nerves. J 2. Anterior cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric I nerve. \ 3. The ilio-inguinal nerve. [ I. Lateral cutaneous nerves. -{ 2. Lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve. I, 3. Lateral cutaneous branch of ilio-hypogastric nerve. The anterior cuta?ieous nerves are the small terminal twigs of the lower five or six thoracic nerves. They pierce the aponeurotic sheath of the rectus muscle at variable points, some close to the median line and others a little distance from it. After entering the superficial fascia they run for a short distance laterally. To find these nerves, the best plan to adopt is to divide the superficial fascia along the middle line, and reflect it cautiously laterally. The small arteries which accompany the nerves serve as guides. The anterior cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric lies in series with the preceding. In the dissection of the superficial fascia it has been seen piercing the aponeurosis