THE LEG 263 fascial compartments, corresponding to the anterior, lateral, and posterior crural regions. The atiterior cofnpartme?it is bounded by the investing deep fascia, the anterior peroneal septum, the anterior part of the medial surface of the fibula (that part which lies anterior to the interosseous crest), the interosseous membrane, and the lateral surface of the tibia. The lateral comparftnent is bounded by the lateral surface of the fibula, the investing fascia, and the two peroneal septa. The posterior compartment is much the largest, and its walls are formed by the posterior surface of the tibia, the posterior part of the medial surface and the whole of the posterior surface of the fibula, the interosseous membrane, the posterior peroneal septum, and the investing deep fascia. This compartment'is still further subdivided by two partitions ; but these will be studied later. Dissection. —The anterior compartment of the leg should now be opened by removing the deep fascia. The transverse and cruciate ligaments, however, must be retained, and their borders should be separated artificially, by the knife, from the deep fascia with which they are continuous. In the proximal part of the leg it will be found impossible to raise the fascia from the subjacent muscles without lacerating their surfaces. It should therefore be left in position. At a lower level it can readily be separated. Divide it in a longitudinal direction midway between the tibia and fibula. On throwing the medial piece medially its firm attachment to the anterior border of the tibia will become evident; and as the lateral piece is turned laterally the anterior peroneal septum will come into view. Contents of the Anterior Crural Compartment.—Four muscles are brought into view by the above dissection, viz. the tibialis anterior, the extensor digitorum longus, the extensor hallucis longus, and the peronaeus tertius. The tibialis anterior lies in relation to the tibia; the extensor digitorum longus is placed along the fibula; and on separating these muscles from each other, the extensor hallucis longits will be seen in the interval between them. The peronceus tertius lies upon the distal portion of the fibula, and in most cases is incorporated with the extensor digitorum longus. The anterior tibial vessels and the deep peroneal nerve (O.T. anterior tibial) proceed distally in this compartment. At first they are deeply placed, but as they approach the ankle they come nearer to the surface. Dissection.—To expose the anterior tibial vessels and the deep peroneal nerve in their entire course, on the front of the leg, the tibialis anterior and the extensor digitorum longus must be separated from each other, along the line of a strong intermuscular septum which dips posteriorly I—17 c