ABDOMEN 566 Dissection.—The dissector must carefully define the anterior borders of the levatores ani muscles, and then he must cut boldly through the centre of the perineum between the bulb and the anal orifice until he reaches the fascial interval between the posterior surface of the prostate and the front of the lower part of the rectum. When the interval is reached the knife may be discarded and the forefinger introduced into the space and carried from side to side. In this way it will be possible to demonstrate that the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, as it descends on the levator ani, divides into a lower layer which passes behind the rectum, and a layer which passes between the rectum and the prostate. (Fig. 220, p. 567.) The right levator must now be divided, from before backwards, about midway between its origin from the parietal fascia and its insertion into the wall of the anal passage, care being taken to avoid injury to the fascia on its upper surface. The lower part of the muscle should ^e followed to Fascia iliaca Peritoneum Obturator inlernus • Levator ani clothed on medial side by rectal fascia and on outer side by lower fascia of pelvic diaphragm Alcock's canal, con-. taining pudendal vessels and nerve Anal canal Fig. 219.—Diagram of the Endo-pelvic Fascia. The pelvis is divided in a coronal plane and the pelvic fascia is represented in red. its insertion into the wall of the anal canal, and the mode of insertion between the internal and the external sphincters noted. The upper part should be turned laterally and the fingers of the left hand passed along its upper surface till its origin from the fascia is reached. When this has been done the dissector will find that the only structure which separates his fingers from the cavity of the pelvis is the upper layer of the fascia of the pelvic diaphragm {visceral layer of the pelvic fascia), which extends from the parietal fascia, at the level of the origin of the levator ani, and passes medially to the walls of the viscera, which it ensheathes. If the dissector will now place the fingers of one hand on the upper surface of the visceral fascia and those of the other hand on the lower surface, and then carry both hands medially, he will find that the one hand passes on to the upper surface of the bladder and the other behind the rectum. He will thus demonstrate that as the visceral fascia crosses the pelvis from side to side it separates into an upper or vesical layer and a lower or rectal layer. The third or recto-vesical layer, which covers the posterior surface of the prostate, and separates the gland from the rectum, has already