513 ABDOMINAL CAVITY the fundus of the stomach. Within its area and about an inch or so in front of the margo intermedius is situated a longitudinal slit, frequently broken up into two or more pieces, the hiliis lienis. This gives passage to the vessels and nerves which enter and leave the organ. Behind the hilus and immediately in front of the intermediate angle there is a pancreatic depression of variable extent and depth into which the tail of the pancreas is received. They««Vj renalis is concave, and varies somewhat in its extent. It is applied to the anterior surface of the upper part of the kidney close to its lateral border. The peritoneal relations of the spleen are such that the renal surface cannot be studied unless the posterior border of the organ is pulled forwards, and the fingers are passed behind it. The colic suij^ace is smaller than the other two visceral areas. It is triangular in form, and looks downwards and medially. It is in contact with the left colic flexure and the phrenico-colic ligament. Of the several borders which separate the different surfaces of the spleen from each other, the anterior, the inferior, and the posterior are the most prominent and conspicuous. The anterior border is notched or crenated, and intervenes between the diaphragmatic surface and the gastric surface. The inferior border separates the diaphragmatic surface from the colic surface; whilst the posterior border intervenes between the renal and diaphragmatic surfaces. The other margins which separate the visceral areas from each other radiate out from the intermediate angle, and have been already noticed. A characteristic feature of the typically formed spleen is the great prominence of the anterior angle. It forms the most anteriorly placed part of the spleen. The form of the spleen varies very greatly with the varying degrees of distension of the hollow viscera which are related to its visceral aspect. There is good reason to believe that the tetrahedral form which is described above is associated with an empty or slightly distended stomach .and a well-distended intestine. When, however, the stomach is distended and the intestine more or less empty, the basal surface partially or even entirely disappears, and then the spleen assumes a form similar to that of the segment of an orange (Shepherd). Structure of the Spleen.—As the spleen will be required when the relations of the left kidney arc studied, the dissector should obtain a sheep’s spleen for the purpose of studying the structure of the organ. I le will find that it is envelo])ed by two coats—(i) serous; (2) fibro-elastic. VOL. I—3.3