75 FRONT OF THE ARM insertion of the coraco-brachialis, then they leave it. The ulnar nerve inclines backwards, pierces the medial inter- muscular septum and, passing behind the medial epicondyle, enters the forearm. The median cutaneous nerve of the forearm inclines forwards and medially, pierces the fascia brachii and becomes superficial. The radial nerve is behind the upper part of the artery, but it soon leaves it by passing distally and laterally into the sulcus or the radial nerve between the medial and the lateral heads of the triceps. Branches of the Brachial Artery.—A considerable number of branches spring from the brachial artery. Those which arise from its lateral aspect are irregular in number, origin, and size. They are termed the lateral branches, and are distributed to the muscles and integument on the front of the arm. The series of medial branches which proceed from the medial and posterior aspect of the parent trunk are named as follows as we meet them from above downwards:— 1. A. profunda brachii. 3. A. nutricia humeri. 2. collateralis ulnaris superior. 4. A. collateralis ulnaris inferior. The arteria profunda brachii (O.T. superior profunda) is the largest of the branches which spring from the brachial trunk. It takes origin about an inch or so distal to the lower margin of the teres major, and associates itself with the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve, which it accompanies to the back of the arm. Consequently, only a short part of the vessel is seen in the present dissection. It soon disappears from view between the long and medial heads of the triceps. The arteria collateralis ulnaris superior (O.T. inferior pro- funda) is a long slender artery, which can be recognised from the fact that it follows closely the course which is pursued by the ulnar nerve. Its origin is somewhat uncertain. As a general rule, it issues from the brachial artery opposite the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, but very frequently it will be seen to arise in common with the profunda brachii. It pierces the medial intermuscular septum, with the ulnar nerve, and descends behind the aponeurotic partition to the interval between the olecranon and the medial epicondyle of the humerus. The arteria nutricia humeri may arise directly from the brachial trunk, or take origin from the superior ulnar