FOREARM AND HAND 115 I—8 a remove the ligament. The digital arteries and nerves for the medial side of the little finger, and the lateral side of the index, appear beyond the area of the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis, more proximal than the others, and are consequently liable to injury, unless the positions they occupy are kept in mind. Aponeurosis Palmaris (O.T. Palmar Fascia).—The palmar aponeurosis is composed of three portions—an intermediate, a medial, and a lateral. The lateral and medial are thin and weak, and are spread over the muscles which constitute the thenar and hypothenar eminences on the lateral and medial margins of the palm. The intermediate portio7i of the palmar aponeurosis, on the other hand, is exceedingly strong and dense, and is spread out over the middle of the palm. It counteracts the effect of pressure in this region, and effectually protects the vessels, nerves, and tendons over which it is stretched. Its strength differs considerably in different hands, and it is seen to best advantage in the horny hand of a labourer, or of a mechanic who has been in the habit of handling heavy implements. In shape it is triangular. Above, it is narrow and pointed, and at the wrist it is attached to the transverse carpal ligament, and receives the insertion of the flattened tendon of the palmaris longus. As it approaches the heads of the metacarpal bones it expands, and finally divides into four slips, which separate slightly from each other and pass to the roots of the four medial digits. It gives no slip to the thumb. For the most part it is composed of longitudinal fibres, but, where it divides, a series of strong and very evident transverse fibres pass across it in relation to its deep surface, and bind together its diverg- ing slips. In the three intervals between the digital slips of the palmar aponeurosis, the digital arteries and nerves, together with the corresponding lumbrical muscles, make their appear- ance. The connections of the four digital slips of the palmar aponeurosis must be closely examined. Each lies in front of the two flexor tendons proceeding to the finger with which it is connected, and each will be observed to divide into two portions, so as to form an arch under which these tendons pass. This arch is connected with the flexor sheaths, which bind the tendons to the front of the finger, and the two portions which form it are carried backwards, to obtain attachment to the transverse metacarpal ligament, which