226 INFERIOR EXTREMITY border of the adductor magnus. By separating the con- tiguous margins of the gemellus inferior and quadratus femoris from each other, and looking into the interval between them, the tendon of the obturator externus will be seen as it passes round the neck of the femur to reach the fossa trochanterica. By dealing similarly with the adjacent margins of the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus, the lesser trochanter of the femur will be exposed. Lastly, the origin of the hamstring muscles, from the tuber ischiadicum, and the proximal part of the vastus lateralis, arising from the root of the greater trochanter of the femur on its lateral aspect, should be noted. In each interval formed by the adjacent margins of the muscles exposed, blood-vessels and nerves, or blood-vessels alone, are to be found. Before proceeding to the dissection of these, however, it is well that the student should renew his acquaintance with the skeletal peculiarities of this region. Let him obtain a dried pelvis with the ligaments in situ, and study carefully the position and boundaries of the great and small sciatic notches, and the manner in which they are converted into foramina by the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum (O.T. great sciatic) and ligamentum sacro- spinosum (O.T. small sciatic). Through these foramina important structures issue from the interior of the pelvis into the glutmal region. In the interval between the contiguous margins of the glutteus medius and the piriformis muscles, the superior glufatal artery and nerve issue from the pelvis through the great sciatic foramen. In the interval between the piriformis and the gemellus superior two arteries and six nerves must be looked for, as they emerge through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen, viz. :— The huge sciatic nerve, together with the inferior glutteal artery and posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, proceed distally in the hollow between the greater trochanter of the femur and the tuber ischiadicum. In the interval between the gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris, the small ascending terminal Iminch of the Nerves, Arteries, { f I. A. glutma inferior. ( 2. A. pudenda interna. ’ I. N. ischiadicus. 2. N. cutaneus femoris posterior. 3. N. pudendus. 4. N. glutivus inferior. 5. Nerve to the obturator internus. 6. Nerve to the quadratus femoris.