ABDOMINAL CAVITY 549 the psoas muscle, care must be taken not to injure—(i) tlie sympathetic cord, which lies along its anterior margin ; (2) the lumbo inguinal nerve, which runs downwards in front of it; {3) the ilio-inguinal nerve, and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh, which appears at its lateral border, and the femoral nerve, which lies in the interval between it and the iliacus muscle. In the case of the quadratus lumborum, bear in mind that the last thoracic nerve runs laterally in front of this muscle, close to the lower border of the last rib, and that the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves cross it obliquely at a lower level. M. Quadratus Lumborum.—This muscle arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament and from the crest of the ilium behind it. It likewise receives two or three slips from the transverse processes of a corresponding number of the lower lumbar vertebrae. Narrowing slightly, as it passes upwards, it is inserted into the medial half of the last rib, behind the arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis, and by four tendinous slips into the tips of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae. M. Psoas Magnus (O.T. Psoas).—This muscle has three distinct series of origins from the side of the vertebral column:—(i) by five fleshy processes from the anterior surfaces and lower borders of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae close to their roots; (2) by five slips, each of which arises from the intervertebral disc and the con- tiguous margins of the bodies of two vertebrae—the first slip springing from the last thoracic and the first lumbar vertebrae and the intervening disc, and the last slip from the two lower lumbar vertebrae and their intervening disc; (3) from the tendinous arches which bridge over the lumbar arteries and protect these vessels from the pressure of the contracting muscle. The psoas tapers somewhat as it extends downwards along the brim of the pelvis, and a tendon appears on its lateral border, which affords attachment to the fibres of the iliacus. Passing behind the inguinal ligament, it is inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur. Another muscle, called the psoas parvus, is occasionally present. This springs from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra:, and the intervertebral disc between them, and, stretching downwards upon the anterior and medial aspect of the psoas magnus, it ends in a tendon which is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and ilio-pectineal line. Iliacus.—This muscle arises from the upper part of the iliac fossa, the anterior ilio-sacral ligament, and the base of the sacrum. It is inserted into the tendon of the psoas