THE UPPER EXTREMITY 64 on the dorsal aspect of the limb. It becomes apparent to the eye as a prominence when the elbow is semi-flexed. The olecranon produces a marked projection on the dorsum of the elbow between the two epicondyles. It is placed slightly nearer to the medial than to the lateral epicondyle. The loose skin which covers the olecranon moves freely over its subcutaneous surface, owing to the interposition of a bursa mucosa. The different positions which are assumed by the olecranon, in relation to the epicondyles of the humerus in the movements of the forearm at the elbow-joint, must be carefully examined. This can best be done by placing the thumb on one epicondyle, the middle finger on the other, and the forefinger on the olecranon. The limb should then be alternately flexed and extended, so as to make clear the extent of the excursion performed by the olecranon. In full extension at the elbow-joint the three prominences lie in the same horizontal line; when the forearm is bent at a right angle the three bony points are placed at the angles of an equilateral triangle, the apex of which points distally. When the forearm is extended a marked depression on the dorsal aspect of the elbow indicates the position of the articula- tion between the radius and the humerus. Immediately distal to this the head of the radius lies close to the surface, and can readily be felt, especially when it is made to roll under the finger by inducing alternately the movements of pronation and supination. The head of the radius is placed about an inch distal to the lateral epicondyle. As the skin of the forearm must be reflected in the pur- suit of the cutaneous nerves, it is well, at this stage, to study also the external anatomy of this segment of the limb. In its proximal half the radius is deeply imbedded in muscles, but in its distal half it can be felt, and its styloid process on the lateral side of the carpus can be readily distinguished. On the dorsal aspect of the distal end of the radius immediately above the radiocarpal joint, and nearer the lateral than the medial border of the limb, a prominent bony tubercle may be felt. This is the high ridge which forms the lateral wall of the sharply cut groove on the dorsal aspect of the radius in which the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus muscle plays. The sinuous dorsal border of the ulna is subcutaneous, and may be followed by the finger throughout its entire length ; as the elbow is approached it leads directly on