364 ABDOMEN seefp. 359. Above the superior wall of the deep compartment lie the apex of the prostate gland and the anterior borders of the levatores ani muscles. To approach the prostate, therefore, through the urethral triangle, a series of alternating fascial and muscular strata would have to be divided, viz. 1. The fascia of Colies. 2. The superficial perineal muscles. 3. The superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. 4. The deep transverse perineal muscle and the sphincter of the membranous urethra. 5. The deep fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. This, however, is not a practicable way of approaching the prostate, and the method which should be adopted to display the posterior surface of the gland will be described when the investigation of the pelvic fascia is undertaken (see p. 566). A pad of tow, soaked in a mixture of spirit and carbolic acid, should be placed in the perineum, and the flaps of skin carefully stitched over it. On the fourth day after the body has been brought into the dissecting-room, it is placed upon its back, and the dissectors of the abdomen commence work upon the abdominal wall. FEMALE PERINEUM. The boundaries of the female perineum are identical with those in the male. The region is wider, however, and of greater extent. For purposes of description it is subdivided, by an imaginary transverse line drawm in front of the anus and the tuberosities of the ischium, into a posterior^ anal triangle, and an anterior, urogenital triangle. External Anatomy.—The anal triangle presents the same points for consideration as in the male. The external anatomy of the urogenital triangle demands careful study because it includes the external organs of generation. They are— 1. The mens Veneris. 2. The labia majora. 3. The labia minora. 4. The clitoris. 5. The urethral opening. 6. The vaginal orifice. All these parts are included under the common term of Vulva. Mons Veneris.—This is a marked cushion-like eminence situated in front of the pubes. The projection is due to