177 THE THIGH Four of the cutaneous nerves of the thigh have been found to send twigs to the skin over the knee-joint, viz. the anterior division of the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh, the inter- mediate cutaneous, the anterior division of the medial cutane- ous, and the saphenous nerve. These nerves communicate with each other and form an interlacement which is situated over the patella, the ligamentum patellae, and proximal part of the tibia. It is termed the patellar plextis. On the medial side of the thigh two minute cutaneous nerve twigs some- times make their appearance which do not belong to any of the above main cutaneous trunks. One appears below the ilio-inguinal nerve, and is a twig from the perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; the other pierces the deep fascia at the middle of the medial area of the thigh, and comes from the obturator nerve. Dissection.—.\fter the cutaneous nerves have been cleaned the remains of the superficial fascia must be removed in order that the fascia lata may be studied. Fascia Lata.—This is the name which is given to that portion of the general aponeurotic investment of the lower extremity which clothes the thigh and preserves its figure. The dissector will be struck with the marked difference in strength which it shows on the lateral and medial aspects of the thigh. Laterally it is so dense and strong that it appears to be more tendinous than aponeurotic in its character. The reason of this is that the tensor fascim latae muscle and the greater portion of the glutaeus maximus are inserted into it upon this side of the limb. The strong band thus formed goes under the name of the Iractus iliotibialis, from its being attached above to the crest of the ilium, and below to the lateral condyle of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. It acts as a powerful brace, on the lateral aspect of the limb, which, in the erect posture, helps to steady the pelvis and at the same time keep the knee-joint firmly extended. Medially, the fascia lata is so exceedingly delicate and thin that the subjacent muscular fibres shine through it, and it is very apt to be removed with the superficial fascia unless care be exercised in the dissection. Superiorly, around the root of the limb, the fascia lata is attached to the inguinal ligament and the bones of the pelvis. Posteriorly., it is continuous with the glutmal aponeurosis, and through this it is fixed to the coccyx, sacrum, and crest of the ilium. On the lateral side it is attached to the crest of the ilium; and on the medial side to the body of the pubis, the VOL. I—12