ABDOMEN 358 its two layers will be studied when the superficial layer is reflected. The inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm is not an unbroken continuous layer. It is pierced—(i) by the urethra; (2) by the internal pudendal arteries; (3) by the dorsal nerves of the penis; (4) by the arteries to the bulb ; (5) and lastly, at its base, where it blends with the superficial fascia, by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. The aperture for the tirethra is situated in the middle line, one inch below the symphysis pubis. It is not a clean-cut hole with sharp edges. The margins of the opening, which are separated by a considerable interval from the circumference of the urethra, are prolonged over the bulb of the penis so as to form for it an aponeurotic capsule. As soon as the urethra gains the superficial aspect of the fascia it sinks into the bulb, and is carried forwards through the entire length of the corpus cavernosum urethrte to its external opening on the glans penis. On either side of the urethral aperture there is a small opening in the fascia which gives passage to the corresponding artery to the bulb. Half an inch farther forwards the dorsal nerve of the penis and the inter7ial pudendal artery pierce the fascia on either side, close to the margin of the pubic arch, and under cover of the corresponding crus penis. The term “ inferior or superficial fascia ” of the urogenital diaphragm which is applied to this membrane, implies that there is a deeper or superior fascia to be studied in connec- tion with it; and so there is. But whilst these fascije are very intimately connected, they must be looked upon as being distinct structures. The superficial or inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm is in the same morphological plane as the bony wall of the pelvis and the obturator mem- brane, and, in fact, completes the pelvic wall in front. The superior fascia of the urogetiital diaphragm is simply the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia carried round to the front of the pelvis. Consequently the connections of the latter layer can be examined very much better in conjunction with the pelvic fascia. It should now be noted (1) that it forms with the inferior fascia the urogenital diaphragm ; (2) that the anterior and posterior margins of the two layers are blended together;. (3) that the intermediate interval between the two is closed laterally by the attachment of both layers to the margins of