ABDOMINAL CAVITY 435 the fundus it runs forwards and downwards with a marked convexity to the left; finally it runs to the right and slightly backwards with a convexity downwards. The second portion is frequently spoken of as the left lateral border and the last portion as the lower border of the stomach; the junction of these two parts is commonly the lowest portion of the organ and, when the body is recumbent, it lies on a level with the tips of the tenth costal cartilages, but in the erect posture and when the stomach is full it may descend to a much lower point, even to the level of the umbilicus or still lower. The dissector will find that the small curvature is attached to the lower and posterior surfaces of the liver by a fold of peritoneum which is called the /esser omentum. The part of the great curvature immediately adjacent to the CESophagus is attached to the diaphragm by a peri- toneal fold, the gastro-phrenic ligament., the descending part of the great curvature is attached to the spleen by the gastro- lienal ligament (O.T. gastro-splenic omentum), and the lower part of the great curvature is connected with the transverse colon by the gastro-colic ligament or greater omentum. The first of these connections can be demonstrated by pulling the stomach downwards, the second by pulling it to the right, and the last by raising the great omentum which hangs down from the lower border and turning it upwards over the lower margin of the costal arch. The surfaces of the stomach are an anterior or superior and a posterior or inferior. The latter cannot be seen at the present stage of dissection, it rests on the stomach bed. The anterior is directed upwards and forwards, and the student should note that it is in relation to the left and above with the diaphragm, below with the anterior wall of the abdomen, in the region of the sub- costal angle, and above and to the right with the lower surface of the liver. After examining the stomach the dissector should look for the spleen. Lien (The Spleen).—The spleen cannot be seen, when the abdominal organs are undisturbed, if it is of normal size and is lying in its normal position, but it can easily be felt if the hand is passed backwards round the left margin of the stomach into the back part of the left hypochondriac region, and it can be brought into view by pulling the stomach towards the right side. When this has been done the spleen will be found to be attached to the stomach by the gastro lienal ligament