FOREARM AND HAND 145 bone. It contains two tendons, viz. the tendons of the abductor pollicis longus and the extensor pollicis brevis. The second compartment corresponds with the most lateral groove on the dorsal aspect of the radius. It is broad and shallow, and it holds the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longus, and extensor carpi radialis brevis. The third compart7nent is formed over the narrow, deep, oblique intermediate groove on the dorsum of the distal end of the radius, and through it the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus passes. The fourth compartment is placed over the wide shallow groove which marks the medial part of the dorsal aspect of the distal end of the radius. It is traversed by five tendons, viz. the four tendons of the extensor digitorum communis and the tendon of the extensor indicis proprius. The fifth co^npartment is situated over the interval between the distal ends of the radius and ulna. It contains the slender tendon of the extensor digit! quinti proprius. The sixth and most medial compartment^ which corresponds with the groove on the dorsum of the distal end of the ulna, encloses the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensor Tendons of the Fingers.—The four tendons of the extensor digitoru?n communis^ when they emerge from their compartment under the dorsal carpal ligatfiefit diverge on the dorsum of the hand to reach the four fingers. ’ The tendon of the ring finger will be seen to be connected by a tendinous slip with the tendon on either side of it. This explains the small degree of independent movement in a backward direction which the ring finger possesses. The arrangement of the tendons on the fingers is the same in each case. Upon the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx the tendon expands so as to cover it completely. Into the margins of this ’■’■dorsal expansion ” the delicate tendons of the lumbrical and inter- osseous muscles are inserted. Near the first interphalangeal joint the expansion becomes marked off into three portions— a central and two lateral. The central part, which is the weakest, is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the second phalanx. The stronger lateral portions unite into one piece beyond this, and gain an insertion into the base of the ungual phalanx. 'I'he tendon of the extensor indicis proprius joins the expan- sion of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx of the index finger. VOL. I—10