310 INFERIOR EXTREMITY ARTICULATIONS. The dissection of the knee-joint, the ankle-joint, the tibio- fibular joints, and the various articulations of the foot, may now be proceeded with. It is possible that the ligaments may have become hard and dry. If this be the case, soak the joints in water for an hour or two. Articulatio Genu (Knee-Joint). In the knee-joint three bones are in apposition, viz. the distal end of the femur, the proximal end of the tibia, and the patella. It is the largest and most com- plicated articulation in the body; and, if the bones be examined in the skeleton, the joint presents an apparent insecurity, because the bony surfaces show little adaptation the one to the other. In reality, however, the knee-joint is very strong, and very rarely suffers dislocation on account of the strength of the ligaments which retain the bones in place. The ligaments on the exterior of the joint are:— 1. The capsular ligament. 2. Two collateral ligaments—fibular and tibial. 3. The ligamentum patellm (or anterior ligament). 4. The oblique popliteal ligament. Dissection.—The popliteal vessels, tibial and common peroneal nerves, and the muscles surrounding the knee-joint, must be removed. Portions of the tendons of the biceps femoris, semimembranosus, sartorius, semitendi- nosus, gracilis, and popliteus, together with small pieces of the heads of the gastrocnemius, should be left in place in order that their connections with the ligaments of the joint may be studied. The quadriceps extensor may be divided about three inches proximal to the patella, and the distal part allowed to remain in position. Further, the various genicular arteries which surround the joint should be followed to their terminations. Capsula Articularis.—The capsule of the knee-joint, together with the tibial collateral ligament and the oblique popliteal ligament, form a complete investment for the joint. In some places the fibrous or peripheral part of the capsule has disappeared and has been replaced either by bone and cartilage or by tendon, and in other places it has been strengthened and extended by the incorporation of adjacent portions of fascia and tendons, thus anteriorly the patella entirely replaces a portion of the capsule and above the patella the capsule is merely represented by the stratum