561 PELVIS The False Ligaments of the Bladder.—The false ligaments of the bladder are parts of the pelvic peritoneum. When the bladder is empty a fold extends from the anterior end of its upper surface, the apex of the bladder, to the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall. This is the plica umbilicalis media (O.T. superior false ligament) of the bladder. It separates the right and left paravesical and supravesical fossae from each other, and is caused by the projection of the ligamentum uhibilicale medium formed by the urachus or fibrous remnant of the allantois. The peritoneum, extending from each lateral border of the upper surface of the bladder to the side wall of the pelvis, constitutes a lateral false liga- ment, and forms the floor of the corresponding paravesical fossa. Not uncommonly each lateral false ligament and the peritoneum on the upper surface of the bladder are divided into anterior and posterior portions by a transverse fold, the plica vesicalis transversa, which crosses from one side of the pelvic brim to the other. It is questionable if the term posterior false ligament should be retained ; it is still applied, however, to the remnants of the sacro-genital folds which extend from the back of the distended bladder to the sides of the distended rectum, or to the front of the sacrum. Dissection from above.—All the peritoneum above the level of the pelvic brim should now be removed, care being taken not to injure or displace the ureter or the ductus deferens. The dissector should then stitch the ureter to the artery it crosses at the brim, common or external iliac as the case may be. He must also stitch the ductus deferens to the external iliac artery close to the origin of the inferior epigastric branch. This being done, he must carefully detach the peritoneum from the extraperitoneal fat, separating any adhesions with the knife. The separation should be commenced at the brim, and be carried medially until the root of the pelvic meso-colon, the side of the rectum, and the lateral border of the upper surface of the bladder are reached. When this has been done on both sides, the dissector should displace the bladder backwards, and pass his finger down between the viscus and the symphysis, through the soft extraperitoneal fat, till it meets a resisting membrane. This is the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia or upper layer of the fascia of the pelvic diaphragm. By his sense of touch the dissector will recognise not only that it is attached to the lower part of the posterior surface of the symphysis, but also that two thickened bands of its substance extend backwards, one on each side of the medial plane, from the back of the symphysis to the anterior border of the bladder. These bands are the anterior true ligaments of the bladder or the medial pubo-prostatic ligaments, the latter name indicating that, in the male, they are placed above the prostate. Having satisfied himself regarding these ligaments the dissector should carry his finger backwards, between the bladder and the wall of the pelvis, displacing the soft fat, until he touches the ureter. The region which he will thus investigate is the lower and anterior part of a large area, known as the cccve of Retzius, in which the extraperitoneal fat has very slight attachment either to the peritoneum or to the pelvic fascia, and in which, therefore, it is very easily displaced. The area extends from the hypogastric artery of one side round the front of the bladder to the hypogastric artery of the opposite side, downwards to the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, and upwards between the umbilical (O.T. obliterated hypogastric) arteries to the umbilicus. The facility with which he displaces the fatty tissue should demonstrate to the dissector how easy, in this area, will be the spread of urine effused from a ruptured bladder, or of blood running from a divided artery, or of effusions due to inflammatory conditions. The dissector must now remove the extraperitoneal fat first from the ductus deferens, then from VOL. I—36