FOREARM AND HAND 135 M. Extensor Digitorum Communis.—The extensor digi- torum communis takes origin by the common tendon from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. The deep fascia and the intermuscular septa in relation to it also contribute fibres. Its fleshy belly, in the lower part of the forearm, sends out four tendons, which pass under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament. On the dorsum of the hand they diverge and proceed onwards to the four fingers. Their arrangement and attachments on the dorsum of the hand and fingers will be afterwards considered (p. 145). This muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous 7ierve. M. Extensor Digiti Quinti Proprius (O.T. Extensor MiTiimi Digiti).—The extensor digiti quinti proprius is a slender fleshy belly which at first sight appears to be a part of the preceding muscle, but its tendon passes through a special compartment in the dorsal carpal ligament. It arises in common with the extensor digitorum communis, and is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. M. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris.—^The extensor carpi ulnaris arises, by means of the common extensor tendon, from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor digiti quinti proprius. In the middle third of the forearm it receives some fibres from the strong fascial layer which binds it to the dorsal border of the ulna. The tendon does not become free from the fleshy fibres until it approaches close to the wrist. It occupies the groove on the dorsal aspect of the distal end of the ulna, between the head and styloid process, and passing under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament is inserted into the tubercle on the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. This muscle is supplied by the dorsal mterosseous nerve. M. Anconaeus (Anconeus). — The anconaeus is a short triangular muscle placed on the dorsal aspect of the elbow-joint. It presents a narrow origin from the posterior aspect of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. From this its fibres spread — the upper fibres passing transversely medially, whilst the others proceed medially and distally with an increasing degree of obliquity towards its distal end. It is inserted into the lateral surfece of the olecranon, and into the proximal third of the dorsal surface of the body of the ulna.