INFERIOR EXTREMITY 254 Movements permitted at the Hip-joint. — Before the capsule of the joint is opened the range of movement which is permitted at the hip-joint should be tested. Flexion, or forward movement, is very free, and is only checked by the anterior surface of the thigh coming into contact with the abdominal wall. Extension, or backward movement, is limited by the ilio-femoral ligament. This powerful ligament has a most important part to play in preserving the upright attitude with the least possible expenditure of muscular exertion. In the erect posture the line of gravity falls slightly behind the line joining the central points of the two hip-joints. In the upright attitude the ilio-femoral ligaments are tense, and prevent the pelvis from rolling backwards on the heads of the femora. Adduction, or lateral movement of the limb, is checked by the pubo-femoral ligament. Adduction, or medial movement {e.g. as in crossing one thigh over the other), is limited by the proximal portion of the ilio-femoral ligament and the proximal part of the capsule. Rotation tightens the ischio-capsular ligament, and is therefore in a measure restrained by it. Rotation laterally is limited by the lateral portion of the ilio-femoral ligament. In circumduction, which is produced by combination of the movements of flexion, abduction, exten- sion, and adduction, different parts of the capsular ligament are tightened at different stages of the movement. The flexor muscles, which operate on the femur at the hip-joint, are chiefly—(i) the ilio-psoas, and (2) the pectineus ; the extensors are—(i) the glutteus maximus, and (2) the glutmus medius ; (3) the hamstrings ; the abductors—(i) the upper part of the glutseus maximus, (2) the gluUeus medius, (3) the glutreus minimus; the adducto7s—(i) the three adductors, (2) the pectineus, (3) the distal part of the glutreus maximus, and (4) the obturator externus ; the medial rotators—(i) the anterior part of the gluteus medius, (2) the anterior part of the glutceus minimus, (3) the tensor fasciae late, and (4) the ilio-psoas; the lateral rotators—(i) the two obturator muscles, (2) the gemelli, (3) the piriformis, (4) the quadratus femoris, and (5) the distal fibres of the glutceus maximus. It should be noted that the muscle fibres which act as lateral rotators when the body is erect, become abductors when the hip-joint is flexed, and that the ilio-psoas is a flexor of the hip-joint and a medial rotator of the thigh until flexion is almost complete, but then it becomes a lateral rotator. Dissection.—The hip-joint may now be opened, and in doing this it is advisable to remove in the first instance the whole capsule, with the exception of the ilio-femoral ligament. The enormous strength of this portion of the capsule can in this way be appreciated. It is fully a quarter of an inch thick, and a strain varying from 250 lbs. to 750 lbs. is required for its rupture (Bigelow). It is very rarely torn asunder in dislocations, and consequently the surgeon is enabled in most cases to reduce the displace- ment by manipulation. The ilio-femoral ligament may now be removed. Labrum Glenoidale (O.T. Cotyloid Ligament).—This is a firm fibro-cartilaginous ring, which is fixed to the brim or margin of the acetabulum. It bridges across the incisura, and thus com- pletes the circumference of the cavity, deepens it, and at the same time narrows slightly its mouth. The labrum glenoidale fits closely upon the head of the femur, and, acting like a sucker, exercises an important influence in retaining it in place. Both surfaces of the labrum are covered by synovial