199 THE THIGH hip-joint; two, and frequently three, filaments go to the knee-joint. Tractus Ilio-tibialis of Fascia Lata (O.T. Ilio-tibial Band).—The thick band of fascia lata on the lateral aspect of the thigh which receives this name should now be e.xamined, and its connections ascertained. It has been preserved for this purpose. Distally it is attached to the lateral condyle of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. On tracing it proximally, on the lateral surface of the vastus lateralis, it will be observed to split, at the junction of the middle and proximal thirds of the thigh, into two lamellce —a superficial and a deep. The tensor fascite latje is enclosed between these layers, and when they are disengaged from its surfaces the muscle will be seen to be inserted into the fascia at the angle of splitting. The superficial lamina of the tractus ilio-tibialis is attached above to the crest of the ilium, and is continuous posteriorly with the glutaeal aponeurosis where this covers the glutaeus medius. The deep lamina can be followed proximally, on the lateral surface of the rectus femoris, to the capsule of the hip-joint, with the upper and lateral part of which it blends. It is also connected with the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. This layer is per- forated by the ascending twigs of the lateral circumflex artery of the thigh. M. Tensor Fasciae Latae (0.1’. Tensor Fasciae Femoris). —This is a small muscle which is placed on the lateral and anterior aspect of the proximal third of the thigh. It lies between the two lamellae of the tractus ilio-tibialis, in the interval between the sartorius muscle anteriorly and the glutaeus medius muscle posteriorly. On turning the muscle laterally so as to display its deep surface, a little dissection will bring into view its nerve of supply which comes from the superior glutceal nerve. A few arterial twigs from the lateral circumflex artery also sink into its deep surface. The tensor fascice. latae arises from a small portion of the anterior part of the lateral lip of the crest of the ilium; from the upper part of the margin of the notch below the anterior superior (iliac) spine ; and by some fibres from the aponeurosis covering the glutaeus medius. It extends distally, with a slight inclination posteriorly, and is inserted into the tractus ilio-tibialis of the fascia lata at its angle of splitting. Art. Circumflexa Femoris Lateralis (O. I'. External I—13i