ABDOMEN 468 forwards; to its uppermost segment is attached the gastro- phrenic ligament, to its left lateral segment the gastro lienal ligament, and to its lowest or anterior segment the greater omentum. The stomach is not only curved from one end to the other but it is also bent upon itself more or less acutely so that a notch or angular depression, the incisura angularis, is produced in the lesser curvature (Fig. i8o). Advantage is taken of this notch to divide the organ, for descriptive purposes, into a large cardiac part which lies to the left and a much smaller pyloric part which lies to the right of the incisura. The cardiac' part of the stomach is generally considered to consist of a fundus and a body. An imaginary line drawn around the organ from the cardiac orifice to a point on the greater curvature directly opposite is taken as separating these portions of the stomach from each other. The short pyloric part of the stomach is composed of a pyloric canal and a pyloric vestibule. The pyloric canal is a short, narrow, usually cylindrical part, about one inch or one inch and a quarter long, which immediately adjoins the duodeno-pyloric constriction. It thus constitutes the right extremity of the stomach, and its thick muscular walls and its cylindrical form give it a special character of its own. The pyloric canal is, as a rule, directed backwards, and it is marked off from the pyloric vestibule by a slight notch in the greater curvature termed the sulcus hitermedius. The p^oric vestibule lies to the left of the pyloric canal and the sulcus inter- medius. It is wider than the pyloric canal, and its walls are not so thick. But there is also a physiological subdivision of the stomach. During the process of active digestion the right half of the body of the stomach and the whole of the pyloric portion, by the firm contraction of their walls, assume a tubular form. In this tube a thorough mixture and trituration of the food is effected by means of constriction waves which pass over it in regular procession from left to right. The fundus and left half of the body of the stomach maintain a saccular form, and constitute a passive reservoir from which food is squeezed into the more active tubular part to take the place of the material which intermittently escapes from the stomach into the small intestine. When the stomach is empty it is questionable if it ever assumes during life the flaccid, relaxed, and flattened form which is so frequently seen in the dissecting-room, in subjects which have not been specially hardened. In life, the healthy stomach, by contraction of its muscular coat, adapts itself to its contents whether these be liquid, gaseous, or solid, and when empty and contracted its walls become thick and firm. Position of the Stomach.—When empty and contracted the stomach lies more or less horizontally within the abdominal cavity, it is placed within the left hypochondrium and the left portion of the epigastrium. The organ is bent on itself like a sickle and the fundus sinks downwards so that it comes to look directly backwards; the surfaces are directed upwards and downwards and the curvatures forwards and backwards the greater curvature being at a slightly higher level than the lesser curvature; lastly, there is a gradual but decided down- ward slope of the upper surface from the fundus to the pylorus.