246 INFERIOR EXTREMITY limb a few minute branches from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh maybe discovered; (2) towards the lateral side of the thigh some twigs from the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh may be detected; (3) lastly, towards the ?nedial aspect of the limb endeavour to find some offsets from the medial cutaneous (O.T. internal cuta?ieous) branch of the femoral nerve and twigs of obturator nerve. Deep Fascia.—On removing the superficial fascia the deep fascia will be observed to be exceedingly thin. It must now be turned aside, and in doing this be careful of the trunk of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, which passes down, in the middle line of the limb, immediately subjacent to the fascia. Hamstring Muscles.—-The hamstring muscles are three in number, viz. the biceps femoris, the semitendinosus, and the semimembranosus. They stretch from the tuberosity of the ischium to the proximal ends of the tibia and fibula. The biceps femoris is recognised from its diverging laterally to form the lateral and proximal boundary of the fossa poplitea. The sanitendinosus and semimembranosus extend distally on the medial side of the posterior aspect of the thigh, the former on the superficial aspect of the latter. In cleaning these muscles the dissector should proceed cautiously to work, otherwise he will injure the arterial and nerve twigs which enter them. The latter may be easily secured by pulling proximally the proximal part of the sciatic nerve, and at the same time gently separating the muscles with the fingers. M. Biceps Femoris (O.T. Biceps). — The biceps femoris arises by two heads—a long, or ischial, and a short, ox femoral, —^and is inserted, chiefly, into the head of the fibula. The long head arises from the ischium by a tendon which is common to it and the semitendinosus (Pig. 74, p. 200). This is implanted into the medial of the two impressions which mark the upper part of the tuber ischiadicum. Some fibres from the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum are continued into it. The short head arises from the back of the femur below the insertion of the glutfeus maximus, viz. from the lateral lip of the linea aspera, from the proximal half of the lateral supracondylar ridge, and from the lateral intermuscular septum. Its parallel fibres run obliquely distally and laterally, and join the anterior and medial surface of the tendon of insertion. This tendon, on the lateral