INFERIOR EXTREMITY 338 which pass between the non-articular portions of the basal parts of the bones, and they constitute the chief bonds of union. In addition to these basal ligaments, the strong transverse metatarsal ligament of the heads of the metatarsal bones unites the distal extremities of the bones together. This ligament has been previously described (p. 305). Joint Cavities of the Foot.—There are six separate joint cavities in connection with the tarsal, tarso-meta- tarsal, and intermetatarsal articulations, viz.—(i) the cavity between the posterior facets of the talus and calcaneus; (2) the calcaneo-cuboid joint cavity; (3) the cavity of the joint formed by the head of the talus, the navicular, the sus- tentaculum tali, and the two calcaneo-navicular ligaments; (4) a complicated cavity which extends between the navicula- cuneiform articulation, and is prolonged forwards between the cuneiforms, and also between the cuboid and lateral cuneiform bones. This cavity, however, is not confined to the tarsus, but is continuous with the cavity between the second and third metatarsal bones and the tarsus, as well as with the cavities of the joints between the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones ; (5) a separate cavity lies between the first metatarsal and the medial cuneiform ; (6) a distinct cavity for the articulations between the cuboid and the 'two lateral metatarsal bones. This is prolonged distally into the joint between the bases of these two metatarsals. Metatarso-phalangeal and Digital Joints.—These joints are constructed upon a plan almost identical with that of the corresponding joints of the upper extremity. For the detailed description the student is therefore referred to p. 163. In the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe the thick pla?itar accessory Iiga7>ie7it or fib7-ous plate holds two large sesamoid bones, which slide upon grooved surfaces on the head of the metatarsal bone. Movements.—The movements which take place in the tarso-metatarsal, intermetatarsal, and in the majority of the tarsal joints, are of a gliding character. In the joints between the talus and navicular, and also between the calcaneus and the cuboid, movements of a wider range are ^ The lateral interosseous tarso-metatarsal ligament, which passes from the lateral cuneiform bone (frequently from the cuboid bone) to the base of the fourth metatarsal bone, separates the cavity between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones and the cuboid from the general tarsal articular cavity.