INFERIOR EXTREMITY 2o8 pectineus. It proceeds posteriorly through the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. The arteria perforaris secunda takes origin a short distance lower down, or perhaps by a common trunk with the first perforating. It pierces the same muscles, viz. the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. The arteria perforans tertia springs from the profunda distal to the adductor brevis, and passes posteriorly through the adductor magnus. The arteria perforans qnarta^ as before noted, is the terminal branch of the profunda femoris; it pierces the adductor magnus alone. The arteria nutricia femoris superior may spring from either the second or the third perforating branch. An inferior nutrient artery is frequently present; it is often derived from the fourth perforating artery. When the adductor magnus is more fully exposed it will be seen that the perforating arteries, as they pierce its tendon, have a series of fibrous arches thrown over them. M. Pectineus. — This muscle is placed between the adductor longus and the ilio-psoas. It is flat and somewhat broader at its origin from the brim of the pelvis than at its insertion into the femur. It has a fleshy origin, from the pecten pubis, and from the surface of the innominate bone anterior to it (Fig. 74, p. 200). Some fibres are likewise derived from the lacunar ligament. It descends obliquely laterally and posteriorly, and gains insertion into the femur, posterior to the lesser trochanter, and to a certain extent also into the line which leads from that prominence down to the linea aspera. It is supplied by the femoj-al nerve. Dissection.—The pectineus may be detached from its origin, and thrown distally and laterally. In separating the muscle from the pubis the dis- sector must bear in mind that in some cases an accessory obturator nerve descends into the thigh, under cover of its lateral margin, and over the brim of the pelvis. Care must also be taken not to injure the anterior division of the obturator nerve which lies posterior to the muscle, or the medial circumflex artery which passes posteriorly in contact with its lateral border. The Nervus Obturatorius Accessorius when present arises within the abdomen from the lumbar plexus or from (Fig. 208) the obturator trunk near its origin. In the thigh it gives a branch to the hip-joint and joins the anterior division of the obturator nerve. It is very rare to find a twig given to the pectineus either by it or by the trunk of the obturator nerve itself. Art. Circumflexa Femoris Medialis (O.'F. Internal Circum- flex).—This vessel springs from the medial and posterior aspect of the profunda femoris artery at the same level as the lateral