2 2 1 GLUT/EAL REGION from the inferior gluteal artery. The latter comes into view medial to the ischial tuberosity, and is accompanied by small branches of the inferior htemorrhoidal artery. These nerves can most readily be found by everting the lower border of the glutxus maxinius ; but in doing this, care must be taken not to injure the trunk of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, as it passes from under cover of the glutieus ma.ximus and runs vertically down the thigh. Deep Fascia.—The deep fascia of the gluteal region is brought into view by removing what remains of the super- ficial fascia. The fatty tissue should be cleared away not only from the deep fascia as it is spread over the glutaeus maximus, but also from the more anteriorly situated area. In the latter situation a dense, opaque, pearly white apo- neurosis is by this means exposed. This covers the anterior part of the glutcCus medius, and is firmly attached above to the crest of the ilium. It stands in marked contrast with the deep fascia over the glutasus maximus, which is thin and transparent. Subsequent dissection will show that the dense fascia over the anterior part of the glutaeus medius, when it reaches the anterior border of the glutaeus maximus, splits into two lamellae which enclose the great glutaeus between them. Dissection.—Now proceed to clean the glutKus maximus muscle. If it is the right limb, begin at the anterior or upper margin of the muscle ; but if it is the left, commence the dissection at the posterior or distal border. In undertaking this dissection, the dissector must keep clearly before him the rules which have already been laid down regarding the cleaning of a muscle:—(i) render the fibres as tense as possible by rotating the limb medially ; (2) remove the fascia in one continuous layer ; (3) always cut in the direction of the muscular fibres ; (4) define very carefully the borders of the muscle. The glutaeus maximus is a difficult muscle to clean, the fasciculi are so exceedingly coarse. To do it well it is not sufficient to remove the fascia which covers the muscle but it is necessary, at the same time, to follow, for a short distance, the septa which penetrate between the fasciculi and to remove them also. Do not remove the thick opaque fascia which covers the insertion of the muscle. The dissector of the left limb, on reaching the anterior margin of the muscle, will observe that the fascia which he holds in his hand is continuous with the strong aponeurosis which covers the glutarus medius ; and further, if he now frees the anterior border of the mu.scle from subjacent parts, he will notice that the layer of fascia upon which the glutaius maximus rests is also continuous with the same aponeurosis. In other words, he will, in this manner, be able to satisfy himself that the strong fascia which covers the anterior part of the glutreus medius splits into two layers to enclo.se the glutasus maximus. The posterior cutaneous nerve of the tliigh should be secured at once by everting the distal border of the glutxus maximus. Otherwise it is very liable to be injured in the subsequent stage of