ABDOMINAL CAVITY 505 the third part of its course, it dips behind the right border of the head of the pancreas, and coming into relation with the main duct of the pancreas it accompanies it into the wall of the second part of the duodenum, where they both enter the ampulla of Vater. The ampulla opens into the cavity of the gut by a single orifice, which is situated on the duodenal papilla. Dissection.—Make a vertical incision in the anterior wall of the second part of the duodenum, nearer its right than its left lateral border. At the upper and lower ends of the vertical incision make short transverse incisions and turn the flaps so formed aside. Clean the interior of the duodenum with a sponge, and then e.xamine the mucous membrane. Note that the mucous membrane of the second part is thrown into numerous and large plicae circulares, and that, as a rule, it is deeply stained by bile. Look for a longitudinal fold of the mucous membrane, which lies at the junction of the medial and posterior walls, nearer the lower than the upper end, this is the plica longitudinalis. It serves as a guide to the duodenal papilla which lies at its upper extremity, usually concealed by one of the largest of the plicae circulares. Pass a small probe through the opening on the apex of the papilla into the ampulla. Make an opening in the lower part of the bile-duct, and pass a small probe along the duct into the ampulla ; perform the same operation on the main pancreatic duct, then cut down through the medial wall of the gut and open up the lumina of the ducts, the cavity of the ampulla of Vater, and its orifice of communication with the interior of the duodenum. Vena Portse (Portal Vein).—Blood is carried to the liver both by the hepatic artery and by the portal vein. The hepatic artery which carries arterial blood has already been examined, p. 445. The portal vein, which carries the venous blood from the whole of the abdominal part of the alimentary- canal, except the anal canal, and from the spleen, the pancreas, and the gall-bladder, must now be studied. It is a wide vessel, about three inches in length (7.5 c.m.), which is formed by the union of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins behind the neck of the pancreas, and between it and the upturned uncinate process of the head of the pancreas. It ascends, behind the first part of the duodenum and in front of the inferior vena cava, to the lower margin of the epiploic foramen where it leaves the vena cava, enters the lesser omentum, and continues upwards, in front of the epiploic foramen and behind the bile-duct and the hepatic artery, to the right extremity of the porta hepatis; there, after enlarging slightly, it divides into a wide short right branch, and a longer and narrower left branch. The right branch receives the cystic vein and then enters the right