164 THE UPPER EXTREMITY of the phalanx, but only slightly connected with the meta- carpal bone. Occupying the interval between the two col- lateral ligaments it is united to both by its margins, so that the three ligaments are more or less directly continuous. The volar accessory ligament also exhibits a close connection with the transverse ligament of the heads of the metacarpal bones which stretches transversely across the heads of the metacarpal bones, and its volar surface is grooved for the flexor tendons as they proceed distally over the joint. Further, the fibrous sheath, which bridges over the tendons, is fixed to its borders. Ligg. Collateralia (O.T. Lateral Ligaments).—The col- lateral ligavients are placed one on either side of the joint. Each is a strong, thick, and short band, which is attached, on the one hand, to the tubercle and depression on the corresponding side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and on the other to the base of the phalanx and the border of the volar ligament. Dissection.—The extensor tendon should now be raised from the dorsal aspect of the joint. By this proceeding the joint is opened, and a demonstration is afforded of the fact that the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are only represented dorsally by the stratum synoviale. Stratum Synoviale (Synovial Membrane). — A synovial tnembrane lines the deep surfaces of the capsula articularis in each joint, and also the deep surface of the extensor tendon, as it passes over the articulation. The tendon there- fore takes the place of the stratum fibrosum of the capsule. Movements at the Metacarpo-phalangeal Joints.—The movements of the first phalanx at these joints are—[a) flexion, or volar movement; (b) extension, or dorsal movement ; (r) abduction ; and {d) addiution. During flexion of the fingers the first phalanx travels volarwards with the thick accessory volar ligament upon the head of the metacarpal bone. The interosseous and lumbrical muscles are chiefly instrumental in producing this movement. The first phalanges of the fingers in the movement of extension can only be carried dorsally to a very slight degree beyond the line of the metacarpal bones. The extensor communis and the special extensors of the index and little flnger are the muscles which operate in this case. Abduction and adduction are movements of the first phalanx away from and towards a line prolonged distally through the middle finger, and are seen when the fingers are spread out and again drawn together. The abductor digiti quinti and the dorsal interosseous muscles act as abductors of the fingers at these joints, whilst the volar interosseous muscles operate as adductors of the little, ring, and index fingers. In the case of the middle digit, the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles act alternately as abductors and as adductors. In connection with the