THE UPPER EXTREMITY 56 branch to the teres minor, and, after furnishing a few twigs to the posterior part of the deltoid, is continued onwards, as the lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm, which has already been dissected in the superficial fascia over the lower part of the deltoid (Fig. 22). The nerve to the teres minor is distinguished by the presence of an oval gangliform swelling upon it. The anterior division proceeds round the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus, and ends near the anterior border of the deltoid. It is distributed by many branches to the deep surface of this muscle, whilst a few fine filaments pierce the deltoid and reach the skin. M. Teres Major.—The part which the teres major pla)'s in the formation of the quadrilateral and triangular spaces has already been seen. It arises from the oval surface on the dorsum of the scapula close to the inferior angle of the bone (Fig. 24, p. 55), and also from the septa which the infra- spinous fascia sends in to separate it from the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles. It is inserted into the medial lip of the intertubercular sulcus on the upper part of the humerus (Fig. 33, p. 79), and is supplied by the lower sub- scapular nerve. Insertions of Latissimus Dorsi and Pectoralis Major.—The narrow, band-like tendon of the latissimus dorsi lies in front of the insertion of the teres major. From its inferior margin a small fibrous slip will be observed passing downwards, beyond the lower margin of the teres major, to find attachment to the long head of the triceps (Fig. 22). This is a rudiment of the dorsi-epitrochlearis muscle of the lower animals. The tendons of the teres major and latissimus dorsi should now be separated from each other. They will be found to be more or less adherent, and a small bursa mucosa will be discovered between them. The insertion of the latissimus dorsi into the bottom of the intertubercular sulcus of the humerus may now be satisfactorily studied. The tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major, which is attached to the lateral lip of the intertubercular sulcus, may also be conveniently e.xamined at this stage (p. 13). A separation of the sternal and clavicular portions of the muscle will bring into view the two lamina; which constitute the tendon, and the following points may be noted in connection with these :—(«) that they are continuous with each other below, or, in other words, that the tendon is simply folded upon itself; [b) that the posterior lamina extends upwards on the humerus to a higher level than the anterior, and that a fibrous expansion proceeds upwards from its superior border, to seek attachment to the capsule of the shoulder-joint and the lesser tuberosity of the humerus ; (c) that the lower border is connected with the fascia of the upper arm. Articulatio Acromio - Clavicularis (Acromio - clavictilar