288 INFERIOR EXTREMITY distance proximal to the ankle-joint, and runs transversely medially under cover of the flexor hallucis longus to join the posterior tibial artery. The perforating bra7uh passes forwards, through the interosseous membrane, and has already been dissected in the anterior region of the leg (p. 271). Ligamentum Laciniatum (O.T. Internal Annular Liga- ment).—The connections of this thickened band of deep fascia should be carefully studied, and also the arrangement of the structures which pass under cover of it into the sole of the foot. It bridges across the hollow between the promin- ence of the calcaneus and the medial malleolus, and it is attached to both. Its chief proximal connection is with the layer of the deep fascia which intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior region of the leg, but it is also continuous with the general aponeurotic investment of the limb. Its distal margin gives origin to the abductor hallucis, and is connected with the medial portion of the plantar aponeurosis. Passing under cover of this ligament the dissector will observe—(a) the posterior tibial vessels and the tibial nerve; if) to the lateral side of these, the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus; if) to their medial side, the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus and tibialis posterior. From the medial to the lateral side these structures lie in the following order:— 1. Tendon of tibialis posterior. 2. Tendon of flexor digitorum longus. 3. Posterior tibial vessels. 4. Tibial nerve. 5. Tendon of flexor hallucis longus. The tendons are isolated from each other and from the vessels and nerve by septa, which pass from the deep surface of the laciniate ligament to ridges on the bones. These septa can be demonstrated by slitting up the ligament, for a short distance, in the line of each of the tendons: each of the three compartments will then be seen to be lined by a glistening mucous sheath. Anastomosis around the Ankle-joint.—The dissector should next satisfy himself with regard to the anastomosis of arteries which takes place around the ankle-joint. On the lateral aspect of the joint he will observe inosculations taking place between branches of the following arteries:—{a) lateral