256 INFERIOR EXTREMITY The ligamentum teres is not round, as its name might lead one to expect, but somewhat flattened and triangular in shape. Its narrow femoral extremity is implanted into the proximal margin of the fovea capitis fern oris, whilst its flattened acetabular end is bifid, and is fixed to the margins of the incisura acetabuli, and also to the transverse ligament. This attachment can be defined by removing the synovial membrane and some areolar tissue. The ligamentum teres is surrounded by a prolongation of the synovial membrane, and a small artery runs along it to the head of the femur. It is difficult to under- stand the part which the ligamentum teres plays in the mechanism of the hip-joint. It presents very different degrees of strength in different individuals. It becomes very tense when the thigh is slightly flexed and then ad- ducted. The Interior of the Joint and the Synovial Membrane.—A mass of soft fat occupies the non-articular bottom of the acetabulum. Upon this the ligamentum teres is placed, and blood-vessels and nerves enter it by passing through the notch under cover of the transverse ligament. The vessels come from the medial circumflex and the obturator arteries, and the nerves come from the anterior branch of the ob- turator nerve and from the accessory obturator, when it is present. A nerve-twig is also supplied to the posterior part of the joint by the nerve to the quadratus femoris. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule. From this it is reflected on to the neck of the femur, and it clothes the bone as far as the margin of the articular cartilage which covers the head. Along the line of reflection some fibres of the capsular ligament proceed upwards on the neck of the femur and raise the synovial membrane in the form of ridges. These fibres are termed the retinacula or cervical ligaments. The- cervical ligaments are of some surgical imporlance. In intra- capsular fracture of the neck of the femur they may escape rupture, and they may then to some e.\tent help to retain the fragments in apposition. Hence examinations of this class of fracture must be conducted gently, lest by rupturing this ligamentous connection the fragments be perma- nently displaced. At the acetabular attachment of the capsular ligament the synovial membrane is reflected on to the labrum glenoidale and invests both its surfaces. It also covers the articular