279 THE LEG the tendons of the sartorius, the gracilis, and the semi- tendinosus. Osteo fascial Compartments of the posterior region of the Leg.— Divide the fascia along the middle line and turn it laterally and medially. Leave the ligamentum laciniatum intact. On raising the medial part of the fascia it will be seen to be attached to the medial border of the tibia. In fact, it blends with the periosteum covering the medial subcutaneous surface of this bone. On turning the lateral portion of fascia laterally it will be observed to be directly continuous with the fascia on the front of the leg : further, the strong intermuscular septum (posterior peroneal septum) which passes in to join the lateral crest of the fibula, between the peroneal muscles and the muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg, will be demon- strated. In this manner, then, the large posterior osteo-fascial compartment is formed, and, as the dissection goes on, two partitions will be noticed to stretch across it so as to subdivide it into three portions. The most superficial of these holds the superficial muscles of the calf; the intermediate portion contains the flexor muscles with the posterior tibial vessels and the tibial nerve : whilst the deepest part encloses the tibialis posterior muscle (Fig. 97, p. 266). One of these partitions may be exposed at the present moment by removing the fat which is usually accumulated under cover of the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). Subjacent to this tendon is the layer of fascia in question. It stretches between the tibia and Fig. 102.—Posterior aspect of distal por- fibula, and separates the super- tion of Femur with Attachments of ficial from the deep group of Muscles mapped out. muscles. In this locality it will be seen to be very dense, and to be strengthened by numerous transverse fibres. It becomes continuous on the medial side of the ankle with the ligamentum laciniatum (O.T. internal annular ligament)—indeed, the dissector will not fail to observe that it takes a more prominent part in the formation of this ligament than the investing aponeurosis of the limb. In the proximal part of the leg it becomes very thin. Superficial Muscles,—The superficial muscles of the calf of the leg are three in number, viz. the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, and the soleus. The gastrocnemius is the most superficial; the soleus is placed under cover of the gastro- cnemius ; whilst the slender plantaris extends distally and medially between them. The tendons of insertion of the gastrocnemius and soleus unite to form the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). M. Gastrocnemius.—This strong muscle arises by two heads