397 ABDOMINAL WALL Anteriorly the fibres of the transversus abdominis muscle end in a strong aponeurosis, which is inserted into the linea alba, the pubic crest, and the ilio-pectineal line. Towards this aponeurosis the fleshy fibres for the most part run in a transverse direction. The lower fibres, however, take a curved course downwards and medially, so that the muscle presents an arched lower margin. The dissector has already seen that the lowest portions of the aponeuroses of the internal oblique and the transverse muscles blend to form the falx mguinalis or conjohied tendim. It is through the medium of this tendon that the transversus abdominis gains its insertion into the pubic crest and into the pecten pubis. The aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis constitutes the greater portion of the falx inguinalis—indeed, whereas the internal oblique aponeurosis has an attachment to the pecten pubis of little more than half an inch, the aponeurosis of the transversalis is fixed to fully an inch of this crest. Above the level of the falx inguinalis the aponeurosis of the transversus is inserted into the linea alba, but in passing medially to this insertion it presents two different relations to the rectus muscle. Down to a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes it passes behind the rectus, and blends with the posterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique. Below this point it passes in fro?it of the rectus, and blends with the aponeuroses of the internal oblique and external oblique. Dissection.—The sheath of each rectus should now he opened by a vertical incision along the middle line of the muscle. The divided anterior lamella should then be carefully raised from the surface of the muscle and turned laterally and medially. At the linea: transversae this can only be done with difficulty, so close is the connection between the sheath and the tendinous intersections of the muscle. Contents of the Sheath of the Rectus.—Within the rectal sheath we find the following structures:— 1. The rectus muscle. 2. The pyramidalis muscle. 3. The terminal portions of the anterior branches of the seven lower thoracic nerves. 4. The inferior epigastric artery. 5. The superior epigastric artery. In cleaning the rectus keep in mind the thoracic nerves. These will now be seen to enter the sheath and sink into the