516 ABDOMEN mesenteric plexuses, and, below, branches which issue from it are pro- longed downwards across the fronts of the common iliac arteries into the hypogastric plexus. Plexus Spermaticus.—Each spermatic plexus receives filaments from the aortic plexus and from the renal plexus of the same side. It accompanies the corresponding internal spermatic artery and gives branches to the ureter as well as to the testicle. In the female the corresponding plexus is called the ovarian plexus and accompanies the ovarian vessels. Plexus Mesentericus Inferior.-—The inferior mesenteric springs from the aortic plexus. It accompanies the inferior mesenteric arterj' and gives secondary offshoots along the branches of the artery. Removal of the Spleen, Pancreas, and Duodenum.—The dissector should now proceed to the removal of the spleen, the pancreas, and the duodenum, which should be kept together and preserved so that they can be replaced in position when the relations of the kidneys are being studied. Cut through (i) the splenic artery about three-quarters of an inch from its origin from the coeliac trunk ; (2) the portal vein, about one inch above the union of the superior, mesenteric, and splenic veins; (3) the superior mesenteric artery half an inch below its origin from the aorta ; (4) the gastro-duodenal branch of the hepatic arter)^ h'ix the splenic vein to the posterior surface of the pancreas with a few stitches. Pull the spleen over towards the right side and cut through the left layer of the lieno-renal ligament which is still in position, then remove the spleen, the pancreas, and the duodenum from the abdomen. Removal of the Liver. —The general position and connections of the liver have been considered, and the left lobe has been detached and laid aside (see p. 444). The right lobe must now be separated from the parts to which it is connected. Strip the peritoneum from the anterior surface of the inferior vena cava, from the point where it was exposed by the removal of the first part of the duodenum to the point where it disappears into the fossa venas cavse on the posterior surface of the liver. Raise the liver as much as possible and, to the right of the inferior vena cava, cut through the layer of the peritoneum which is reflected from the lower part of the posterior surface of the liver to the diaphragm. This layer is the lower layer of the coronary ligament. At the base of the liver the lower layer of the coronary ligament becomes continuous with the right triangular ligament which must also be divided. After the right triangular ligament is divided, pull the liver downwards as far as possible, and cut through the falciform ligament which connects the anterior and superior surfaces of the liver to the anterior abdominal wall and to the diaphragm. Divide this ligament from before backwards, and note as its posterior extremity is approached that its right lateral layer becomes continuous with the upicr layer of the coronary ligament which passes from the posterior border of the upper surface of the liver to the diaphragm. Divide this layer from right to left, and be careful not to injure the upper ]iart of the abdominal ]iortion of the inferior vena cava, which lies immediately behind it a little to the right of the line of attachment of the falciform ligament. Now, with the right hand, pull the right lobe of the liver forwards and to the left, detach- ing its posterior surface from the diaphragm, with the fingers of the left hand, until the right border of the fossa for the inferior vena cava is reached ; then separate the vena cava from the fossa, with the fingers, from below upwards, until the large hepatic veins arc reached as they ])ass out of the upper part of the posterior surface of the liver into the anterior wall of the inferior vena cava, immediately below the diaphragm. Divide these veins carefully with the knife and remove the right lobe of the liver from the abdomen.