ABDOMEN 496 at the termination of the descending colon at the level of the upper and back part of the iliac crest. It passes downwards and forwards to the region of the anterior superior iliac spine, and then turns medially, along the line of the inguinal ligament, to the brim of the small pelvis, where it becomes the pelvic colon. Its length is variable, but averages about six inches. It does not possess a mesentery, but is covered with peritoneum anteriorly and along its sides. Posteriorly it is separated by the extra-peritoneal fat from the iliacus, the psoas magnus, the femoral nerve (O.T. anterior crural) which lies in the groove between the two muscles, and its termina- tion is in front of the left external iliac artery. The remaining portions of the large intestine will be considered in association with the dissection of the pelvis. Dissectioti.—Place two ligatures round the descending colon, below the splenic flexure, and two more ligatures round the junction of the iliac with the pelvic colon ; divide the intestine between each pair of ligatures and remove the descending and the iliac portions of the colon. Take the detached intestine to the sink, wash it thoroughly, open it, and note that, as in the other parts of the large intestine previously examined, the mucous membrane is devoid of villi and of j^licre circulares. After the separated part of the intestine has been examined, clean the posterior wall of the abdomen in the regions from which it was removed and then expose the structures which form its posterior relations. After these have been displayed clear away the remains of the transverse meso-colon from the front of the pancreas and proceed to the examination of the duodenum. Duodenum (The Duodenum).—It has already been noted that the duodenum is the first part of the small intestine, and it would have been examined, in proper sequence, immediately after the examination of the stomach, had it not been that a complete examination of it at that time w’ould have interfered too much with the relations of other portions of the intestine which have now been removed. The duodenum is from ten to twelve inches in length, it is the widest and the most fi.xed of the three parts of the small intestine, and its walls are thicker than those of the other two parts. It extends from the pylorus, which lies in the transpyloric plane half an inch to the right of the median plane, to the duodenal flexure, situated at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra slightly below the transpyloric plane and about an inch to the left of the median plane. Whilst passing from its commencement to its termination the duodenum describes a U-shaped curve, the concavity of the curve, which embraces the head of the pancreas, being directed upwards and to the left. For con-