DORSUM OF THE ARM 83 DORSUM OF THE ARM. In this region the following are the structures which_require to be studied :— 1. The triceps muscle. 2. The a. profunda brachii, and the n. radialis (musculo-spiral). 3. The a. collateral ulnaris superior, and the n. ulnaris. 4. The posterior branch of the a. collate>ralis ulnaris inferior. 5. The m. subanconreus. Dissection.—The skin has already been removed from the dorsum of the arm. The deep fascia should now be raised from the surface of the m. triceps, and its three heads cleaned and isolated from each other. To place the muscle on the stretch, the inferior angle of the scapula should be raised as high as possible, and the forearm flexed at the elbow-joint. The radial nerve, together with the a. profunda brachii, must at the same time receive the attention of the dissector. They should be followed back- wards between the heads of the triceps, and all their branches should be carefully preserved. M. Triceps Brachii (O.T. Triceps).—This muscle occupies the entire posterior osteo-fascial compartment of the upper arm. It arises by a long or middle head from the scapula, and by two shorter heads, lateral and medial, from the humerus. The fleshy fibres of these three heads join a common tendon, which is inserted into the top of the olecranon of the ulna. The superficial part of the muscle is, for the most part, formed hy the long head and the lateral head of the muscle. The medial head is deeply placed; only a very small portion of it appears superficially, in the lower part of the arm, on each side of the common tendon of insertion. The caput longum of the triceps arises, by a flattened tendon, from the rough triangular impression on the upper part of the axillary border and the lower aspect of the neck of the scapula (Fig. 15, p. 34). This tendon lakes origin in the interval between the teres minor and subscapularis muscles. The hvo humeral heads take origin from the posterior aspect of the humerus ; and if it be borne in mind that no fibres arise from the sulcus for the radial nerve and that the groove in- tervenes between the origins of the two heads, their rela- tions will be easily understood. The dissector should provide himself with a humerus, and, having first identified the sulcus for the radial nerve, proceed to map out the areas of attach-