ABDOMEN 646 The Pelvic Blood-vessels. The manner in which the pelvic blood-vessels should be dissected has been described on p. 597. In the female the dissector will find three arteries which were either not studied at all, or not under the same name in the dissection of the male pelvis, viz.— o' vtei ine, \branches of the hypogastric. 2. 1 he vaginal, J 1 fa 3. The ovarian, from the abdominal aorta. Arteria Uterina.—The uterine artery springs either from the anterior division of the hypogastric or from the umbilical artery. It runs downwards in front of the vertical part of the pelvic portion of the ureter, and then medially along the lower border of the broad ligament and above the lower part of the ureter (Figs. 249, 252). Having crossed the ureter it passes above the lateral fornix of the vagina and turns upwards along the side of the uterus. It ends by anastomosing with branches of the ovarian artery beneath the isthmus of the uterine tube. It gives branches to the uterus, the vagina, and the isthmus of the uterine tube, and frequently it supplies twigs to the ovary. Arteria Vaginalis.—The vaginal artery springs from the anterior division of the hypogastric artery. It probably represents the inferior vesical artery of the male, and whilst it is distributed mainly to the vagina it gives twigs also to the base of the bladder and to the rectum. Arteria Ovarica.—The ovarian artery corresponds to the internal spermatic artery of the male, and the abdominal part of its course is similar to that of the latter artery. When it arrives at the pelvis it crosses the upper part of the ex- ternal iliac vessels, and insinuates itself between the two layers of the broad ligament, where they form the suspen- sory ligament of the ovary. It is highly tortuous, and is enclosed in the terminal part of its extent in the coils of the pivnpinifonn plexus formed by the veins which issue from the hilus of the ovary. Its terminal branches are mainly distributed to the ovary, which they enter at the hilus, but some pass on to anastomose with branches of the uterine artery. It supplies twigs to the uterine tube also. The remaining arteries of the female pelvis correspond very closely to those of the male, of which descriptions will be found on pp. 598-601.