ABDOMEN 6oo This is usually of larger size than any of the superior vesical branches. It crosses in front of the ureter and over or under the angular bend of the deferent duct to reach the base of the bladder, where it ramifies, sending twigs to the bladder, the seminal vesicle, the ductus deferens, and the prostate. It frequently gives off the artery to the defere7it duct. Arteria Hsemorrhoidalis Media (Middle Hsemorrhoidal) may arise independently or in common with the inferior vesical, and it may pass in front of the lower part of the ureter or behind it. It is distributed mainly to the muscular coat of the rectum, where it anastomoses with the superior and inferior haemorrhoidal vessels. It supplies twigs also to the prostate, the deferent ducts, the seminal vesicles, and the bladder. Arteria Obturatoria (Obturator Artery).—The obturator artery runs forwards on the inner aspect of the pelvic wall to the upper margin of the obturator foramen, where it enters the obturator canal. In the pelvis it lies in the extra- peritoneal fat below the obturator nerve and above the vein. It gives some small iliac branches to the iliac fossa, and a pubic branch which ascends behind the pubis to anastomose with the pubic branch of the inferior epigastric artery. This anasto- mosis may become converted into either the commencement | of the obturator which then arises from the inferior epigastric, | or the commencement of the inferior epigastric which then l arises from the obturator, and, in either case, it may pass to ' the medial side or to the lateral side of the femoral ring; thus it attains a close relationship with a femoral hernia. Arteria Pudenda Interna (O.T. Internal Pudic Artery). —In the pelvic part of its course the internal pudendal artery proceeds downwards in front of the piriformis muscle and the sacral nerves. It leaves the pelvis by passing between the piriformis and the coccygeus muscles, and through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. Arteria Glutaea Inferior (O.T. Sciatic Artery).—The inferior glutccal artery is usually the largest branch given off by the anterior division of the hypogastric artery, and, as a rule, it lies behind the internal pudendal. It passes down in front of the piriformis muscle and the sacral plexus, and frequently through one of the loops of the plexus. It leaves the pelvis by passing between the piriformis and coccygeus muscles and through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen (Fig. 85).