FOREARM AND HAND 131 Arteria Volaris Indicia Radialis, and Arteria Princeps PoUicis (O.T. Eadialis Indicia and Princepa Pollicia Arteriea). —These arteries spring from the radial as it proceeds towards the volar surface between the first and second metacarpal bones. The arteria volaris indicis radialis runs distally between the transverse part of the adductor pollicis and the first dorsal interosseous muscle to the lateral border of the index, along which it proceeds as its lateral volar proper digital artery. The arteria prhiceps pollicis takes a course distally and laterally under cover of the oblique part of the adductor pollicis, and gains the volar aspect of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Here it lies dorsal to the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, and divides into the volar proper digital arteries of the thumb. These branches make their appear- ance in the interval between the adductor and the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and are carried distally on either side of the tendon of the long flexor. Surgical Anatomy of the Palm and Fingers.—When an abscess forms in the intermediate compartment of the palm early surgical interference is urgently called for. The dense palmar aponeurosis effectually prevents the passage of the pus to the surface of the palm, whilst an easy route proximally into the forearm is offered to it by the open carpal tunnel, through which the flexor tendons enter the palm. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, that before this can occur the surgeon should make an opening in the palm by means of which the pus can escape. In making such an incision it is important to bear in mind the position of the various vessels which occupy the intermediate compartment of the palm. As previously stated, the level of the superficial volar arch can be indicated by drawing a line transversely across the palm from the distal margin of the outstretched thumb. The deep volar arch lies half an inch more proximally. The volar common digital arteries, which spring from the convexity of the superficial volar arch, run in line with the clefts between the fingers. An incision, therefore, which is made distal to the superficial volar arch and in a direction corresponding to the central line of one of the fingers, may be considered free from danger in so far as the vessels are concerned. The loose mucous sheath which envelops the flexor tendons as they pass deep to the transverse carpal ligament has been noticed to extend proxim- ally into the distal part of the forearm, and distally into the palm. When this is attacked by inflammatory action it is apt to become distended with fluid (thecal ganglion), and the anatomical arrangement of parts at once offers an explanation of the appearance which is presented. There is a bulging in the palm, and a bulging in the distal part of the forearm, but no swelling at all at the wrist. Here the dense transverse carpal ligament resists the expansion of the mucous sheath, and an hour-glass constriction is evident at this level. The fingers are subject to an inflammatory process, termed whitlow, and, in connection with this, it is essential to remember that the flexor fibrous sheath ends on the base of the distal phalanx in each digit. I—9 a