AXILLARY SPACE 17 Clean the pectoralis minor muscle witlioul injuring the medial anterior thoracic nerve which pierces it. M. Pectoralis Minor.—The pectoralis minor is a triangular muscle which rises from the anterior ends of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs close to their junctions with their cartilages and from the fascia covering the intercostal muscles in the intervening spaces. Its fibres pass upwards and laterally, and its tendon of insertion is attached to the upper surface and the anterior border of the coracoid process near its lateral extremity. When the muscle is in action it draw's the scapula downwards and forwards and depresses the shoulder. It is supplied by the medial anterior thoracic nerve. The greater portion of the pectoralis minor is concealed by the pectoralis major, but the medial part of its inferior border appears on the lateral wall of the thorax below the pectoralis major; its insertion is concealed by the anterior fibres of the deltoid. Dissection.—QXqtv! away the clavipectoral fascia below the level of the pectoralis minor and open up the lower part of the axilla, remove also the deep fascia of the arm in the region of the lateral boundary of the axilla. Commence at the lateral jjart of the area below the pectoralis minor and clean the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps as they descend into the arm from the tip of the coracoid process. Find the lower part of the axillary artery at the medial border of the coraco-brachialis. The trunk of the median nerve lies between the artery and the muscle, and at the lower border of the pectoralis minor the medial head of the nerve crosses the front of the artery. Pull the coraco-brachialis laterally and find the musculo-cutaneous nerve entering its deep surface, just below the pectoralis minor. Above and to the lateral side of the trunk of the musculo- cutaneous nerve find the branch from it which supplies the coraco-brachialis. The axillary vein lies along the medial side of the artery, and in the angle between the artery and vein, anteriorly, is the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm (internal cutaneous). Running along the medial side of the vein is the medial cutaneous nerve of the arm (lesser internal cutaneous nerve) ; secure this and follow it upwards to the communication which it receives from the intercosto-brachial nerve. At the same time identify and preserve the lateral group of axillary lymph glands which lie along the medial side of the axillary vein. .Secure the intercosto-brachial nerve and follow it medially, to the point where it emerges from the second intercostal space, and laterally to the medial and posterior aspect of the arm where it is distributed. In order to display the distribution of the intercosto-brachial nerve, and to give better access to the medial and posterior walls of the axilla, the axillary fascia must be separated from the fascia of the arm. When this has been done the dissector should turn to the medial wall of the axilla and find the anterior and posterior divisions of the lateral branches of the intercostal nerves, as they emerge between the digitations of the serratus anterior behind the inferior border of the pectoralis minor. These he must trace forwards and backwards respectively, and he may expect to find VOL. I—‘2