202 INFERIOR EXTREMITY Arteria Tibialis Anterior.—The anterior tibial artery passes forwards, between the two heads of the tibialis posterior muscle, to the anterior region of the leg, where it has already been dissected. In this part of its course the anterior tibial artery gives off the posterior recurrent tibial and the superior fibular branch. The posterior recurreiit tibial is a small twig which is not always present. It runs upwards under cover of the popliteus muscle to the back of the knee-joint. The superior fibular runs laterally, on the neck of the fibula, and is dis- tributed to the muscles and integument in the neighbourhood. Arteria Tibialis Posterior.—The posterior tibial artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal trunk. It takes origin at the distal border of the popliteus muscle and ends in the hollow on the medial side of the calcaneus, under cover of the abductor hallucis, and at the level of the distal border of the ligamentum laciniatum, by dividing into the lateral and medial plantar arteries. In the first instance the artery is placed between the two bones of the leg upon the tibialis posterior muscle; but as it passes distally it inclines gradually medially, and at its termination it lies midway between the prominence of the calcaneus and the medial malleolus. In its proximal two-thirds the posterior tibial artery is situated very deeply, being covered by the superficial muscles of the calf. In the distal third of the leg it appears between the tendo calcaneus and the medialborder of the tibia, and is merely covered by the integument, two layers of fascia, and lower down by the ligamentum laciniatum. Proximo-distally it rests upon the tibialis posterior, the flexor digitorum longus, the tibia, and the posterior aspect of the ankle-joint. Throughout its entire course the posterior tibial artery is closely accompanied by two vetice comites. The tibial nerve is at first on its medial side, but it soon crosses the vessel, and then proceeds distally on its lateral side. The following are the branches which issue from the posterior tibial artery :— 1. Muscular. 2. A. mUritia tibae. 3. A. perouKa. 4. Cutaneous branches. 5. Medial calcanean. 6. Ramus communicans. 7. A. jilanlaris medialis. S. A. ]5lantaris lateralis. The muscular branches supply the deep muscles on the back of the leg, and one or two of large size enter the soleus.