THE THIGH 191 more distally it is crossed by the medial cutaneous branch (O.'r. internal cutaneous) of the femoral nerve, which runs along the medial border of the sartorius muscle. Posterior to the artery are the psoas and pectineus, but it is separated from the psoas by the femoral sheath and the nerve to the pectineus, and from the pectineus by fatty areolar tissue in which lie the profunda femoris artery and the femoral vein. Upon the lateral side of the femoral artery is the femoral nerve—but not in apposition with it, as a small portion of the psoas intervenes. The femoral vein changes its position with reference to the artery, as it is traced distally. In the proximal part of the space it lies on the same plane and to the medial side of the artery, but distally it becomes more deeply placed and gradually assumes a position posterior to the artery. The branches which the femoral artery gives off in the femoral triangle have already been enumerated (p. 188). One of these, viz. the deep external pudendal, may now be traced to its destination. Art. Pudenda Externa Profunda (Deep External Pudic). —This is a small twig which arises from the medial side of the femoral, a short distance below the inguinal ligament. It extends medially, upon the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and, piercing the fascia lata, ends, according to the sex, in the integument of the scrotum or of the labium pudendi. Dissection.—The fascia lata may now be removed from the distal two- thirds of the anterior and medial parts of the thigh. This can best be effected by dividing it along the middle line of the limb, and throwing it laterally and medially. Preserve undisturbed the thickened band of fascia (tractus ilio-tibialis) on the lateral side of the thigh. In cleaning the sartorius muscle several of the nerves of the thigh will be found intimately related to it, and must be carefully dissected. The intermediate cutaneous nerve (O.T. middle cutaneous) frequently pierces its proximal border, and then proceeds distally in front of it ; the anterior branch of the medial cutaneous crosses it more distally, whilst the posterior branch of the same nerve is carried distally along its posterior border. Near the knee it lies superficial to the saphenous nerve, which ultimately comes to the surface between it and the gracilis. A short distance above this the sartorius is pierced by the infrapatellar branch of the saphenous nerve. Lastly, about the middle of the thigh, there is formed under cover of the sartorius, an interlacement of fine nerve twigs derived from the posterior branch of the medial cutaneous, the saphenous nerve, and the obturator nerve. On raising the sartorius from subjacent parts this must be looked for. The different portions of the quadriceps extensor muscle must also be cleaned ; and the branches which the femoral nerve gives to them, and