'FHE THIGH 197 large number of cutaneous and muscular branches. The following is a list of these :— With the exception of the saphenous nerve, which is distributed upon the medial side of the leg and foot, the distribution of the cutaneous branches of the femoral nerve has been already examined (p. 175). The nerve to the pectineus arises a short distance below the inguinal ligament and turns medially, posterior to the femoral vessels, to reach its destination. The branches to the sartorius are two or three in number. As a rule they take origin by a common trunk with the intermediate cutaneous nerv'e. The intermediate cutaneous nerve (O.T. middle cutaneous') sometimes pierces the proximal border of the sartorius. It divides into two branches which perforate the fascia lata about three or four inches distal to the inguinal ligament. The medial cutaneous nerve (O.T. internal cutaneoits) inclines distally and medially and crosses anterior to the femoral artery. It divides into an anterior and a posterior portion, which become superficial at different levels on the medial side of the limb. From the trunk of the nerve a few cutaneous twigs are given to the skin over the proximal and medial parts of the thigh. The anterior branch crosses the sartorius muscle and makes its appearance through the fascia lata in the distal part of the thigh, a short distance in front of the great saphenous vein. The posterior branch runs distally, along the posterior border ol the sartorius, and pierces the deep fascia on the medial side of the knee, behind the sartorius and the saphenous nerve. A short distance distal to the middle of the thigh the posterior branch of the medial cutaneous nerve forms, with filaments from the obturator nerve and the saphenous nerve, a plexiform interlacement, the sartorial plexus. Anterior division, To the rectus femoris. ,, vastus medialis. ,, vastus lateralis. Posterior division, Rami musculares, ,, vastus inter- medins. ,, m. articularis genu. Ramus cutaneus, Saphenous nerve. ^ Rami articulates. I—13 a