DORSUM OF THE ARM 85 narrow pointed fleshy slip, which obtains origin from the bone as high as the insertion of the teres major muscle. Below, it widens out and arises, by short fibres, from the entire breadth of the posterior surface of the humerus. It also springs from the posterior surface of the medial intermuscular septum, and from the lower part of the corresponding surface of the lateral intermuscular septum. The medial head of the triceps, therefore, has very much the same origin from the back of the bone that the brachialis has from the anterior surface of the bone. The dissector should now study the co7nnwn tetidoji of insertion of the triceps. The long and the lateral heads end in a broad, flat tendon, which is inserted into the back part of the proximal surface of the olecranon, and at the same time gives off, on the lateral side, a strong expansion to the fascia of the forearm as it covers the anconaeus muscle. The short fleshy fibres of the medial head are, for the most part, inserted into the deep surface of the common tendon, but a considerable number find direct attachment to the olecranon, whilst a few of the deepest fibres are inserted into the loose posterior part of the capsule of the elbow-joint. These latter fibres have been described as a separate muscle under the name of subancomeus. The triceps is suppjjfcd by branches from the radial nerve. ™ Dissection.—In order that the radial nerve and the art. profunda brachii may l>e fully exposed, the lateral head of the triceps must be divided. Thrust the handle of a knife along the sulcus for the radial nerve, and under the muscle. This will give the direction in which the lateral head of the triceps should be severed. Beyond cleaning the nerve and its branches, and the art. profunda brachii, as they lie in the groove, no further dissection is necessary. Nervus Radialis (O.T. Musculo-Spiral Nerve).—The radial nerve is the direct continuation of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus after it has furnished in the axilla the two subscapular nerves, the thoracodorsal nerve, and the axillary nerve. In the first instance, the radial nerve proceeds distally, behind the distal part of the axillary artery and the proximal part of the brachial artery. It soon leaves the anterior aspect of the arm, however, and, inclining backwards, with the art. profunda brachii, enters the interval between the long and the medial heads of the triceps, and reaches the sulcus for the radial nerve. In this it passes round the back of the body of the I—6 a