6o THE UPPER EXTREMPl'Y taking care not to injure the subjacent vessels. Pull the muscle cautiously backwards, and its nerve of supply with the terminations of the transverse artery of the scapula and the circumfle.x artery of the scapula will be e.xposed. Treat the supraspinatus muscle in a similar manner (Fig. 37, p. 86). Arteria Transversa Scapulae (O.T. Suprascapular Artery).— 'Phis vessel enters the supraspinous fossa by passing over the ligament which bridges across the incisura scapularis. It divides, under cover of the supraspinatus muscle, into a supra- spinous and an infraspinous branch. The former supplies the supraspinatus muscle, and gives off the chief nutrient artery to the scapula; the latter proceeds downwards in the great scapular notch, and under cover of the inferior transverse scapular ligament, to reach the deep surface of the infra- spinatus muscle to which it is distributed. At the superior border of the scapula the transverse artery of the scapula gives off a branch {ramus subscapularis') which enters the subscapular fossa under cover of the subscapularis muscle. Nervus Suprascapularis (Suprascapular Nerve).—This nerve accompanies the transverse artery of the scapula, but it enters the supraspinous fossa by passing through the incisura scapulse, under cover of the upper transverse ligament of the scapula. It supplies the supraspinatus, and ends in the infra- spinatus muscle. It usually sends two articular hvigs to the posterior aspect of the shoulder-joint, viz. one while in the supraspinous fossa, and the second as it lies in the infra- spinous fossa. Arteria Circumflexa Scapulae (O.T. Dorsalis Scapulae Artery).—This vessel has already been observed to arise from the subscapular branch of the axillary and enter the triangular space. While there it supplies one or two ventral branches, which pass under cover of the subscapular muscle to the subscapular fossa, and a larger infrascapular branch which runs downwards in the interval between the teres major and teres minor to the inferior angle of the scapula (Fig. 21, p. 51). After these branches are given off, the circumflex scapular artery leaves the triangular space by turning round the axillary border of the scapula, under cover of the teres minor. It now enters the infraspinous fossa, where it ramifies and supplies branches to the infraspinatus muscle. Anastomosis around the Scapula.—An important and free anastomosis takes place around the scapula. Three main