301 SOLE OF THE FOOT nerve. Sever also the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus and the fle.xor hallucis longus at the point where they emerge from under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum. Upon cutting the branch which is given by the lateral plantar nerve to the quadratus plantse these structures can be thrown forwards towards the toes. On raising the lumbrical muscles, the twigs which are furnished to the second, third, and fourth by the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve must be looked for. That for the second lumbrical muscle will be seen to take a recurrent course around the transverse head of the adductor hallucis muscle. Lastly, cut the medial plantar nerve close to its origin and turn it aside. Third Layer of Muscles.—The flexor hallucis brevis lies along the lateral side of the abductor hallucis. The oblique head of the adductor hallucis (O.T. oblique adductor of the great toe) has a very oblique position in the sole, and hides to a great extent the interosseous muscles. It lies to the lateral side of the flexor hallucis brevis. The transverse head of the adductor hallucis (O.T. transverse adductor of the great toe) is placed transversely across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The flexor brevis digiti quinti (O.T. minimi digiti) may be recognised from its lying upon the fifth metatarsal bone. The deep division of the lateral plantar nerve and the plantar arterial arch are partially exposed, but they will be more fully displayed at a later stage. M. Flexor HaUucis Brevis.—This muscle arises from the os cuboideum and from the slip from the tendon of the tibialis posterior muscle which goes to the intermediate and lateral cuneiform bones. It is narrow and tendinous at its origin, but it soon divides into two separate fleshy bellies, which are ultimately inserted upon either side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. In the tendons of insertion two large sesamoid bones are developed. The medial head of the flexor hallucis brevis is closely connected with the tendon of the abductor hallucis, and is inserted in common with it. The flexor hallucis brevis is supplied by the medial plantar nerve. ' Adductor Hallucis (O.T. Adductor Obliquus Hallucis and (Adductor Transversus Hallucis).—I'he adductor hallucis consists of two separate portions called the oblique and the transverse heads of thetnuscle. The oblique head (adductor obliquus hallucis) arises from the sheath of the peronteus .t longus muscle and from the bases of the second, third, and It fourth metatarsal bones. It tapers as it approaches the root r