337 ARTICULATIONS intermediate interosseous ligament is small. It passes between the anterior part of the medial surface of the lateral cuneiform and the adjacent surface of the base of the second metatarsal. The lateral interosseous ligament passes from the lateral surface of the lateral cuneiform bone to the medial side of the base of the fourth metatarsal. One inter- osseous ligament, therefore, passes from the medial cuneiform bone and two from the lateral cuneiform; and of these, two are attached to the base of the second, and the'third to the base of the third metatarsal bone. Tarso-metatarsal Articular Surfaces.—The manner in which the metatarsus is implanted upon the tarsus should now be examined. The first metatarsal rests against the medial cuneiform, and this joint possesses a separate synovial cavity. The second metatarsal rests against the inter- mediate cuneiform, but its base is grasped by the projecting anterior ends of the medial and lateral cuneiform bones, with both of which it articulates, and with both of which it is con- nected by interosseous ligaments. It is not surprising, there- fore, that this metatarsal should possess so little power of independent movement, and present a difficulty to the surgeon when he is called upon to amputate the fore-part of the foot through the tarso-metatarsal articulation. The third meta- tarsal rests against the lateral cuneiform. The synovial meynbrane which lines the joints between the tarsus and the second and third metatarsal bones is continuous with that which is present between the medial and inter- mediate cuneiform bones, and through this with the synovial membrane of the naviculo - cuneiform articulation. The bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones are supported by the cuboid, but that of the fourth, by its medial margin, articulates also with the lateral cuneiform. The joint formed between the two lateral metatarsal bones and the tarsus has a capsule and a cavity separate from that of the adjacent joints. Intermetatarsal Joints.—The bases of the metatarsal bones, with the exception of the first, articulate with each other, and are very firmly bound together. The ligaments which connect the bases of the four lateral metatarsal bones are dorsal, plafitar, and interosseous. To bring the interosseous ligaments into view it is necessary to divide the dorsal ligaments, and then forcibly separate the bases of the bones from each other. They are strong bands VOL. I—22