ABDOMINAL WALL 407 1. The external spermatic or intercolumnar fascia from the aponeurosis of the external oblique. 2. The cremasteric fascia—the muscular element of which is partly derived from the internal oblique. 3. The infundibuliform fascia from the fascia transversalis. The dissector will find it difficult to demonstrate in every case these different investments of the: testis. In cases of large hernite of old standing, however, they become thickened, and are more readily recognisable. In any case the dissector works at a great disadvantage when he attempts to unfold the coverings of the cord and unravel its constituent parts while they are attached to the body. The cord and testis of the right side should be removed by dividing the former with its coverings at the level of the sub- cutaneous inguinal ring. The specimen should then be placed in a cork- lined tray and dissected under water. Having fastened the cord and testicle, with pins, to the bottom of the tray, little difficulty will be experienced in displaying and recognising the different layers, and a splendid demonstration will be afforded of the constituent parts of the cord. From the above description the student will understand that there is only o?ie tunic common to both testes—viz. the-integument; that the superficial fascia and dartos, forming the dartos tunic, and the investments derived from the abdominal wall, constitute special tunics for each testis. Funiculus Spermaticus (Spermatic Cord).—The spermatic cord is formed by the association together of certain blood- vessels, nerves, and lymph vessels, along with the ductus deferens, all of which are proceeding to or coming from the testis. These structures come together at the abdominal inguinal ring, and this may be taken as the point at which the cord begins. It has already been traced in its course through the inguinal canal, and has been observed to issue from it through the subcutaneous inguinal ring. It is now seen as it lies within the scrotum suspending the testicle. Before dissecting out the constituent parts of the cord, examine the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue which lies behind the abdominal inguinal ring. Note that a process of this tissue is prolonged downwards with the cord. Now with the handle of the knife gently separate the extra-peritoneal fat from the subjacent peritoneum. Behind the abdominal inguinal ring the peritoneum shows a slight bulging forwards, and a slender fibrous band may be detected passing into the cord from the most prominent part of this bulging. This fibrous cord is the remains of the tube of peritoneum which, in the foetus, connected the serous invest- ment of the testicle (the tunica vaginalis) with the general peritoneal lining of the abdomen. In some cases it may be 1—26 «