2 I 8 INFERIOR EXTREMITY proceeds transversely it crosses the muscle-border, and finally comes to lie on the surface of the muscle. In disease of the hip-joint, the buttock loses its prominence, whilst the glutseal sulcus becomes faint. The tuberosity of the ischium may be felt deep to the distal border of the glutaeus maximus by placing the fingers in the medial part of the glutreal sulcus and pressing upwards. A line drawn from the most prominent part of this tuberosity to the anterior superior spine of the ilium is called Nelatoti’s line-, it passes over the top of the great trochanter and crosses the centre of the acetabulum and it is used by the surgeon in the diagnosis of dislocations and other injuries of the hip-joint. The great trochanter of the femur may be felt at a point about six inches distal to the highest part of the crest of the ilium. It can be seen in thin subjects, but it does not form so projecting a feature of this region as might be expected from an in- spection of the skeleton, because the thick tendon of the glutseus medius is inserted into its lateral surface, and it is covered also by the aponeurotic insertion of the glutreus maximus. Reflection of Skin.—Incisions.—(i) From the posterior superior spine of the ilium in a curved direction along the crest of the ilium, as far forwards as the position of the body will permit; (2) from the posterior extremity of this curved incision obliquely downward and medially to the middle line of the sacral region, and then perpendicularly to the tip of the coccyx ; (3) from the tip of the coccyx obliquely distally and laterally over the back of the thigh, to the junction of the upper with the middle third of the posterior border of the lateral area of the thigh. A large flap of skin is thus marked out, and this must be raised from the subjacent superficial fascia and thrown laterally. On the right side of the body the dissector begins at the crest of the ilium and works distally and anteriorly ; whilst on the left side he commences over the coccyx and works upwards and anteriorly. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—-The superficial fascia is now exposed, and it is seen to partake of the same characters as the corresponding layer of fascia in other parts of the body (p. 5). It presents, however, certain special peculiarities. It is much more heavily laden with fat—more particularly so in the female; it thickens over the proximal and distal margins of the glutreus maximus, and it becomes tough, elastic, and stringy over the ischial tuberosity, so as to form a most efficient cushion upon which this bony i)romin- ence rests while the body is in the sitting posture. Cutaneous Nerves (Fig. 83).—The superficial fascia forms