633 PELVIS which is known as the irigo?ie, the connection is closer and the mucous membrane is always smooth. The rugaj on the other parts of the inner surface become unfolded as the bladder distends, until the whole inner surface is smooth. The trigone is also the most sensitive area of the bladder wall. At its apex, which marks the lowest point of the base of the bladder, is situated the semilunar or Y-shaped internal orifice of the urethra, and at its lateral angles, which are about one inch from each other and the same distance from the orifice of the urethra, lie the slit-like orifices of the ureters. The student should pass probes into the ureters; he will then be able to convince himself that each ureter runs for about three-quarters of an inch in the substance of the bladder wall, and that this part of each duct can be easily palpated through the anterior wall of the vagina. The obliquity of the ureters in the substance of the bladder wall is believed to produce a valve-like action of the lower parts of the ducts, permitting the passage of urine into the bladder, but preventing its return. Relations of the Bladder.—The relations of the infero- lateral surfaces and the anterior border of the bladder are practically the same in the female as in the male (see p. 587), except that there is no prostate beneath the lower part of the anterior border, and the neck of the bladder, which is embraced by the prostate in the male, is closely bound to the anterior wall of the vagina in the female. The superior surface which is in relation in the male with coils of small intestine and pelvic colon, is overhung posteriorly by the uterus in the female, and is in relation with small intestine or a coil of the pelvic colon only in the anterior part of its extent. The fundus of the bladder, which in the male is in relation with the deferent ducts and the seminal vesicles, is closely bound in the female to the anterior surface of the neck of the uterus and to the upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina (Fig. 244). Peritoneal Relations.—The peritoneal relations of the bladder are the same in the female as in the male (see p. 590), except that the upper part of the base may be covered by peritoneum in the female. The alterations in the peri- toneal relations which occur as the bladder distends are the same in both sexes (see p. 588). Changes in the form of the Bladder.—'I’he changes which