INFERIOR EXTREMITY 326 which passes from the distal end of the lateral malleolus to the lateral surface of the calcaneus. Ligamentum Deltoideum (O.T. Internal Lateral Lig.).— This is an accessory band on the medial side of the joint. It is strong and of triangular form. Its apex, which is directed proximally, is attached to a shallow pit on the distal end of the medial malleolus. Its fibres diverge from the apex, and are attached in a continuous layer from before backwards to the navicular bone, the talus, sustentaculum tali, and posterior to this to the talus again. Synovial Membrane.—The synovial membrane lines the ligaments above described, and in some cases it sends a smMl process proximally between the tibia and fibula. It is thrown into a transverse fold anteriorly when the joint is flexed, and into a similar fold posteriorly when the joint is extended. Movements.—The movements which take place at the ankle-joint are —(i) flexion (dorsal-flexion); (2) extension (plantar-flexion); and (3) a very limited degree of lateral movement (abduction and adduction) when the foot is fully extended. The two principal movements (flexion and extension) take place around a horizontal axis, which is not transverse, but which is directed laterally and posteriorly, so that it is inclined to the median plane of the body at an angle of about 60° (Krause). This horizontal axis passes through or near the interosseous canal between the calcaneus and talus (Henle). As the articular cavity formed by the tibia and fibula, and also the part of the talus which plays in it, are broader in front than behind, it follows that the more completely the ankle-joint is flexed, the more tightly will the talus be grasped between the two malleoli. In the erect position the talus is held firmly in the bony socket, and portions of its articular surface project both in front of and behind the tibia. The centre of gravity is placed anterior to the ankle-joint, and in this way the bones are kept firmly locked. When, on the other hand, the ankle-joint is fully extended (as when we rise on tip-toe) the narrower posterior part of the talus is brought into the socket, and thus a limited amount of lateral movement is allowed. In flexion the calcaneo-fibular and posterior talo- fibular bands, greater part of the deltoid ligament, and the posterior part of the capsule are put on the stretch. In extetision the anterior talo- fibular ligament, the anterior fibres of the deltoid ligament, and the anterior ])art of the capsule are rendered tense. The Muscles principally concerned in producing dorsi-flexion of the foot at the ankle-joint are the tibialis anterior and the peronreus tertius ; those which operate as plantar-flexors are the superficial muscles of the calf, the tibialis posterior, and the peronrcus longus and brevis. Tibio-fibular Joints. The fibula articulates with the tibia by both its proximal and distal extremity. The upper of the two, the articulatio tibiofibularis, is a diarthrodial joint possessing a cavity and a