THE LEG 2 59 3. A lateral crural region, which includes the parts in relation to the lateral surface of the fibula. 4. A posterior crural region, in which are placed the parts, on the back of the leg, which lie posterior to the interosseous membrane and the two bones of the leg. Anterior Crural Region and Dorsum of Foot. The anterior crural region should be dissected first, and it is usual to conjoin with this the dissection of the dorsum of the foot. The following parts are exposed ;— 1. Superficial veins. 2. Cutaneous nerves. 3. Deep fascia, with its inter - muscular septa, the ligamentum transversum cruris, the lig. laciniatum, and the lig. cruci- atum cruris. 4. Tibialis anterior. S- Extensor digitorum longus. 6. Peronreus tertius. 7. Extensor hallucis longpts. 8. Anterior tibial vessels. 9. Perforating branch of the per- oneal artery. 10. Deep peroneal nerve. 11. Recurrent articular branch from the common peroneal nerve. 12. Extensor digitorum brevis. 13. Dorsalis pedis artery. Reflection of Skin.—To place the limb in a convenient position for the dissection of this region, a block should be introduced beneath the knee, and the foot should be extended and fastened firmly to the table by means of hooks. The skin should be reflected from the tibial and pironeal [medial 2cnA lateral) crural regions at the same time. Incisions:—(i) a vertical cut along the medial line of the leg and dorsum of the foot to the base of the middle toe ; (2) a transverse incision across the ankle-joint ; (3) a transverse incision across the dorsum of the foot at the roots of the toes. The four flaps of skin thus mapped must now be raised from the subjacent fatty tissue, and the superficial veins and nerves dissected out. Venae Superficiales (Superficial Veins).—The arcus venosus dorsalis pedis, which receives the common digital veins, should in the first place be dissected. From the medial extremity of this arch the great saphenous vein will be seen to take origin, whilst from its lateral end the small saphenous vein proceeds. Trace these vessels proximally. The former will be found to pass anterior to the medial malleolus, whilst the latter ascends posterior to the lateral malleolus. The great saphenous vein IS associated with the saphenous nerve, and the small saphenous vein with the sural nerve. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—The following are the cutaneous nerves which must be secured in this dissection;— I—17 a 1. N. cutaneus sune lateralis. 2. N. suralis.