THE UPPER EXTREMITY I o6 muscles, and it anastomoses with the anterior terminal branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery. The a. recurre?is uhiaris dorsalis (O.T. posterior ulnar recurrent') passes medially, under cover of the flexor digitorum sublimis, and then turns proximally, between the two heads of origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris, to gain the interval between the medial epicondyle of the humerus and the olecranon on the dorsal aspect of the limb. Here it comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, and anastomoses with the posterior terminal branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery and with the superior ulnar collateral artery. It is not uncommon to find the two recurrent arteries arising from the ulnar trunk by a short common stem. The arteria interossea cotnmunis is a short, wide trunk, which takes origin immediately below the recurrent branches, about an inch or so below the commencement of the ulnar artery. It proceeds dorsally, and at the proximal margin of the interosseous membrane it divides into two terminal branches, viz. the volar (O.T. a/ite?-ior) and the dorsal (O.T. posterior) interosseous arteries. The arterice carpece ulnares are two small arteries, which partially encircle the wrist. The anterior ulnar carpal artery runs laterally, under cover of the tendons of the flexor digi- torum profundus, and anastomoses with the volar carpal branch of the radial artery. From the arch thus formed small twigs are given to the volar aspect of the carpal bones and joints. The dorsal uhtar ca7pal artery gains the dorsal aspect of the carpus by winding round the medial margin of the limb immediately proximal to the pisiform bone, and under cover of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Nervus Ulnaris (Ulnar Nerve).—The ulnar nerve, which was traced in the dissection of the arm as far as the interval between the olecranon and medial epicondyle of the humerus, enters the forearm between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It proceeds distally, upon the flexor digitorum pro- fundus and under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, along the volar aspect of the medial side of the forearm. Close to the wrist it becomes superficial, upon the lateral side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and it reaches the palm by passing anterior to the transverse carpal ligament. In the proximal third of the forearm the ulnar nerve is separated from the ulnar artery by an interval, but in the distal