500 ABDOMEN relation, anteriorly, with the head of the pancreas and, posteriorly, with the aorta. Behind it lies the anterior border of the right psoas magnus muscle, with the right sympathetic cord, and the left renal vein crosses behind it, unless the latter vessel lies at a somewhat relatively higher level behind the lower surface of the pancreas. Dissection.—Cut through the peritoneum along the lines of its reflection from the duodenum to the right kidney on the right, and from the duo- denum to the posterior wall of the abdomen below and to the left, then turn the second part medially, and the third and fourth parts upwards to examine the posterior relations noted above. The first part of the duodenum and the attached portion of the pyloric end of the stomach can be turned to the right for the examination of the posterior relations of the first part of the duodenum. Suspensory Muscle of the Duodenum and the Root of the Mesentery.—The duodeno-jejunal flexure and the root of the mesentery are held in position and prevented from slipping downwards on the posterior wall of the abdomen by a band of involuntary muscular fibres, which fixes them to the dia- phragm. This band is called the suspensory muscle of Treitz. It is attached above to the diaphragm, on the right side of the oesophageal aperture. From this it proceeds downwards, on the left side of the coeliac artery, to the duodeno-jejunal flexure, into ,which a large number of its fibres are inserted. The remaining fibres enter the mesentery and find attachment to the peritoneum. In the child the suspensory muscle is well marked and easily isolated, but in the adult it loses its distinctly muscular character and becomes more or less blended with neighbouring tissues. Pancreas.—The pancreas is an elongated gland which stretches transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen behind the stomach. For the most part it is situated in the epigastric region, a small portion only of its left extremity being placed in the left hypochondriac region. As in the case of the other solid organs contained within the abdominal cavity, its form is greatly modified by the condition of the hollow viscera in its immediate vicinity, and its true shape can only be ascertained by fixing it in situ by injections of some hardening reagent. It may be described as consisting of a head, a neck, a body, and a tail. The head of the pancreas is the flattened portion of the gland which lies in front of the spine and occupies the con- cavity of the duodenum. It rests upon the inferior vena cava 1