THE UPPER EXTREMITY 146 The tendon of the extensor digiti quintiproprius splits into two parts. Of these the lateral joins the tendon of the common extensor which goes to that digit, whilst the medial ends in the dorsal expansion. Nervus Interosseous Dorsalis (O.T. Posterior Interosseous Nerve).—The terminal filament of this nerve can now be traced distally to the dorsal aspect of the carpus. It passes under cover of the extensor indicis proprius, the tendons of the extensor communis, and the dorsal carpal ligament. On the carpus it ends in a gangliform swelling, from which fine twigs proceed for the supply of the numerous joints in the vicinity. Dissection.—The limb should now be turned round, so that the trans- verse metacarpal ligament which stretches across the volar surface of the heads of the metacarpal bones may be examined previous to the dissection of the interosseous muscles. Transverse Metacarpal Ligament.—The transverse liga- ment of the head of the metacarpal bones is a strong band composed of transverse fibres, which is placed upon the volar aspect of the heads of the four metacarpal bones of the fingers. Commencing on the lateral side upon the distal extremity of the index metacarpal, it ends at the medial margin of the hand upon the head of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. It is not directly attached to the bones, but is fixed to the powerful accessory volar ligaments of the four medial metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and it effectually prevents excessive separation of the metacarpal bones from each other. Dissection.—To obtain a satisfactory view of the interosseous muscles the transverse part of the adductor pollicis,iif not previously reflected, should be detached from its origin, and thrown laterally towards its insertion into the thumb. The transverse metacarpal ligament must also be divided in the intervals between the fingers. Mm. Interossei.—The interosseous muscles occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are seven in number, and are arranged in two groups, viz. a dorsal and a volar. The mm. interossei dorsales are four in number, and are more powerful than the volar muscles. They are best seen on the dorsal aspect of the hand, but they are also visible in the palm. They act as abductors of the fingers from the central line of the middle digit, and their in- sertions are arranged in accordance with this action. Each