189 THE THIGH ihe lumbo inguinal nerve, (2) the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; and (3) the femoral nerve. The lumbo-mguinal nerve descends in the lateral compartment of the femoral sheath on the lateral side of the femoral artery. It pierces the lateral wall of the sheath and the fascia lata a short distance below the inguinal ligament, and has already been traced to its distribution (p. 175). The lateral cutaneotis nerve of the thigh passes into the thigh behind the inguinal ligament, close to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It soon leaves the femoral triangle by crossing the sartorius and piercing the fascia lata. It has already been traced in its ramifications in the superficial fascia on the lateral aspect of the thigh. The femoral nerve will be detected, lying deeply, in the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles, about a quarter of an inch to the lateral side of the femoral artery. In- sinuate the handle of a knife under the main trunk, so as to raise it above the level of the muscles between which it lies, and render it tense, and then follow the numerous branches into which it breaks up as far as the limits of the space will allow. The small twig to the pectineus muscle must be looked for. It passes medially, posterior to the femoral vessels. The floor oi the femoral triangle slopes backwards both from the medial and the lateral boundary of the space. To the medial side of the femoral artery it is formed by the adductor longics and the pectmeus; in some cases a small portion of the adductor brevis may be seen in a narrow interval between these two muscles. To the lateral side of the artery are the psoas and iliacus. The adductor longus is placed in an oblique plane, the medial border being nearer the surface than the lateral border; and thus it is that this muscle not only forms the medial boundary of the triangle, but also takes part in the formation of the floor. These muscles should be cleaned in so far as they stand in relation to the femoral triangle. When a transverse section is made through the frozen thigh in the region of the femoral triangle, thej space has the appearance of a deep intermuscular furrow, bounded on the medial side by the adductor longus and pectineus, and on the lateral side by the sartorius and rectus femoris, whilst behind it is separated from the bone by the ilio-psoas. The femoral vessels and the femoral nerve pass distally in this groove—the a. profunda femoris being placed very deeply, whilst the femoral artery lies nearer to the surface.