343 MALE PERINEUM Make a deep incision into it with the knife, and a bursa will be displayed intervening between the fascia and bone. This bursal sac is frequently intersected by strong fibrous bands or cords. In this locality the superficial fascia acts as a cushion on which the tuber ischiadicum rests when the body is in the sitting posture. But, again, if the superficial fascia be now followed anteriorly, over the urogenital triangle, another change in its character becomes manifest. The farther forwards it is traced the scarcer becomes the fat which it contains in its meshes. In the scrotum the fat entirely disappears and gives place to a thin layer of involuntary muscular fibres. These fibres con- stitute the dartos muscle, and are recognised by their ruddy colour. The rugosity of the scrotal integument is caused by their contraction. Over the urogenital triangle the superficial fascia can be shown to consist of two very definite layers. The superficial layer is fatty and is not confined to this region. In fact, it is simply a portion of the general fatty covering of the body. Posteriorly, it is continuous with the plugs of fat which fill up the ischio-rectal fossae; on either side, it leaves the perineum and becomes continuous with the fatty tissue on the medial aspects of the thighs. The deep layer is of an altogether different nature. It is a dense membranaceous stratum, devoid of fat, which is spread over the urogenital triangle. It is called the fascia of Colles. This sheet of fascia forms very definite attachments around the limits of the urogenital triangle. Thus, on either side, it is fixed to the anterior lips of the rami of the pubis and ischium, whilst, posteriorly, it is tucked round the two superficial transverse perineal muscles and blends with the base of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (O.'F. triangular ligament). A pouch is thus formed, bounded superficially by the fascia of Colies, deeply by the urogenital diaphragm, laterally by the attachment of these to the sides of the pubic arch, whilst, posteriorly, it is closed by the union of the fascia of Colles with the base of the fascia of the urino- genital diaphragm (Fig. 129, p. 344). Within-this pouch certain important parts are placed—viz., the superficial peri- neal muscles, the perineal vessels and the scrotal nerves, the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, the bulb and crura of the penis, and the termina- tion of the pudendal artery. The pouch is partially divided