ABDOMEN 57° fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm and turned downwards until the urethra is brought into view. It pierces the upper part of the fascia in the medial plane and passes at once into the bulb. The muscles and fascia must now be detached from the anterior surfaces and upper borders of the bodies of the pubic bones, and from the upper parts of the pubic rami. Then the bones must be cut through, with the saw, on each side, along a line running from below the'attachment of the arcuate ligament to the lateral side of the pubic tubercle (see Fig. 222). By these saw-cuts a considerable part of the anterior wall of the pelvis is isolated, and it can be removed when the vesical layer of the endo-pelvic fascia has been detached from its posterior surface. Flaving been removed, it must be kept for the examination of the inter-pubic joint. Whilst the bone is being removed care must be taken to avoid injuring the dorsal vein of the penis. After the bone is removed the dissector will see the anterior border of the vesical layer of the endo-pel-vic fascia which has been detached from the back of the pubis. In this fascia he will readily recognise the thickened bands of the pubo-prostatic ligaments. The vesical layer must now be divided in the medial plane and turned laterally to each side. Whilst this is being done it will be noticed that above the prostate the vesical layer is gradually lost on the anterior border and infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder (Fig. 223). When the fascia has been turned laterally to its junction with the recto-vesical layer, already displayed from below, the dorsal vein of the penis must be followed backwards. It divides, immediately after entering the pelvis, beneath the vesical layer of fascia, into right and left branches which join the corresponding parts of the pudendal (O.T. prostatic) venous plexus. The dissector should notice that, by the removal of the bone in the region of the symphysis, he has exposed not only the structures already noted, but also the whole of the anterior border of the bladder and parts of its infero-lateral surfaces. If he now replaces the pelvic peritoneum, he will find that it has no relation to the border and surfaces mentioned ; they lie entirely below the level of the peritoneum. They form the posterior boundary of the lower part of the cave of Retzius, and lie in relation with the anterior and antero-lateral parts of the pelvic wall, from which they are separated by the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue which was removed at an earlier stage of the dissection. The dissector has now seen three surfaces of the bladder, the superior surface covered by peri- toneum, and the two infero-lateral surfaces. The bladder possesses also a fourth surface, the fundus or base, which lies in relation with the ductus deferentes, the seminal vesicles, and to a less extent with the lower part of the anterior wall of the rectum. This surface and the interior of the bladder should now be investigated. ■ Dissectio7i.—Enter the knife through tlie anterior border of tire bladder, a little below its upper extremity, and carry it backwards first on one side and then on the other, just below the upper border of each infero-lateral