281 THE LEG it, or with the fascia of the leg before it reaches the tendo calcaneus. The plantaris is supplied by a branch from the tibial nerve. M. Soleus.—This is a flat, thick, and powerful muscle which arises from both bones of the leg, as well as from a strong fibrous arch which is thrown across the posterior tibial vessels. Its fihilar origin is from the posterior surface of the head and the proximal third of the posterior surface of the body of the bone; by its tibial origin it is attached to the linea poplitea of the tibia distal to the popliteal surface, and more distally to the medial border of the bone as far down as the middle of the leg (Fig. 104, p. 285). The soleus ends in a strong stout tendon which joins with the tendon of the gastrocnemius to form the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). Branches from the tibial fierve supply the soleus. Tendo Calcaneus (Achillis).—This is the most powerful tendon in the body. It narrows as it descends, but near the heel it again expands slightly. It is inserted into the middle portion of the posterior surface of the calcaneus. The fleshy fibres of the soleus are continued distally on its deep surface to within a short distance of the heel. A bursa mucosa intervenes between the tendo calcaneus and the proximal part of the posterior surface of the calcaneus. Dissection.—Divide the soleus muscle along its line of origin from the tibia and separate it from the fibrous arch over the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, then turn it to the lateral side and secure the branches which the muscle receives from the peroneal and posterior tibial arteries. The deep fascial septum which stretches across from the tibia to the fibula between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the leg may now be removed. In doing this note the manner in which it becomes continuous below with the ligamentum laciniatum. On no account interfere with this ligament. The posterior tibial vessels and the tibial nerve, with their branches, should be dissected with as little disturbance to the deep muscles as possible. The muscle which lies on the fibula is the flexor hallucis longus; the muscle on the tibia is the flexor digitorum longus ; whilst the third muscle between and on a deeper plane than the other two is the tibialis posterior. Termination of the Popliteal Artery.—The termination of the popliteal artery lies under cover of the proximal border of the soleus. It should now be cleaned, and it will be seen to end at the distal margin of the popliteus muscle by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Further, the vente comites which accompany these vessels will be observed to join at this point to form the large popliteal vein.