INFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 24 (2) branches of the inferior gliUical ar/erj> and the inferior gluheal nerve below the level of the piriformis. The veins may at once be removed, but the arteries and nerves must be systematically cleaned as they come into view, and traced into the substance of the glutteus maximus. Finally, to allow of the complete reflection of the glutseus maximus, these vessels and nerves must be cut, and it is advisable to leave in connection with the cut end of each a small portion of muscle-substance, in order that they may be readily recognised in the further steps of the dissection. The whole muscle may now be thrown distally and laterally, and after a little dissection an admirable view is obtained of its insertion. Piercing the distal part of this there will be seen a few small twigs of the first perforat- ing artery—a branch of the profunda femoris. In the case of the right limb the procedure adopted in reflecting the glutceus maximus is the same as detailed above, with this exception, that the dissector should begin by detaching it from the coccyx and ligamentum sacro-tuberosum and work upwards towards the ilium. Although it is recommended that the glutreus maximus should be reflected proximo-distally, it is right to mention that an equally- instructive view of the subjacent parts may be obtained by detaching it from its insertion and throwing it upwards towards its origin. The senior , student would do well to adopt this method. Bursae Mucosae under cover of the Glutaeus Maximus.—Tivo bursa are found in relation to the insertion of the glutaeus maximus. The 07ie—a large loose sac—is interposed between the aponeurosis, into which the proximal part of the muscle is inserted, and the great trochanter of the femur. It allows the aponeurosis to play freely on the bone. The second bursa lies immediately distal and anterior to the part of the muscle which is inserted into the glutmal tuberosity of the femur. A slight touch of the knife is sufficient to open it, and then the glistening tendon of the vastus lateralis comes into view. The bursal sac intervenes between this tendon and the aponeurotic insertion of the glutaeus maximus. A third bursa is situated between the glutaeus maximus and the tuber ischiadicum. In all probability this has already been explored by the dissector of the perineum. It lies over the lower aspect of the bony prominence, and is interposed j more between the tough superficial fascia and the bone, than 1 between the muscle and the bone. I Dissection.—On the second day the dissector undertakes the dissection 1 of the remaining structures which are displayed by the reflection of the t glutreus maximus. The vessels and nerves which have been ]iartially exposed in the previous day’s dissection must now be followed towards I the pelvis, and the remaining vessels and nerves, together with the muscles, li must be defined and cleaned by removing the loose areolar tissue which li covers and passes between them. , Parts under cover of the Glutseus Maximus. — Pro- ; ceeding, from the dorsum ilii distally, towards the tuber |