154 THE UPPER EXTREMITY surface of the discus articularis. The os lunatum at the same time crosses the bounding ridge on the distal surface of the radius, and encroaches on the territory of the os naviculare, whilst a considerable part of the surface of the os naviculare leaves the radius and comes into contact with the lateral part of the capsule. Synovial Membrane.—-The synovial membrane of the radio-carpal joint lines the capsule and it covers the proximal surfaces of the two interosseous ligaments which complete the carpal surface. Sometimes the discus articularis is imperfect, and in these cases the synovial membrane of the radio-carpal joint becomes continuous with the synovial membrane of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. Movements at the Eadio-carpal Joint.—The hand can be moved in four directions at the radio-carpal joint. Thus we have—{a) volar movement, or flexion; {b) dorsal movement, or extension ; [c) ulnar movement, or adduction; {d) radial movement, or abduction. In estimating the extent of these movements in the living person the student is apt to be misled by the increase of range which is contributed by the carpal joints. Thus, flexion is in reality more limited than extension, although by the combined action of both carpal and radio-carpal joints the hand can be carried much more freely volarwards than dorsally. Adduction, or ulnar flexion, can be produced to a greater extent than abduction, or radial flexion. In both cases the extent of movement at the radio-carpal joint proper is very slight, but the range is extended by movements of the carpal bones. The styloid process of the radius interferes with abduction. The mtiscles which are chiefly concerned in producing these- different movements of the hand at this joint are the following :—(a) flexors—the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor carpi ulnaris ; {b) extensors—^extensor carpi radialis longus, the extensor carpi radialis brevis, and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; (r) abductors, or 7-adial flexors — flexor carpi radialis, extensor carpi radialis longus, abductor pollicis longus, and the extensor pollicis brevis; {d) adductors, or ulnar flexors— extensor carpi ulnaris and flexor carpi ulnaris. Articulationes Radio-ulnares (Radio-Ulnar Joints). At the two radio-ulnar joints, proximal and distal, the movements of pronation and supination take place. At the proximal joitit the medial part of the head of the radius fits into the incisura radialis of the ulna; at the distal the small capitulum ulnae is received into the incisura ulnaris on the medial side of the distal end of the radius. In connection with these joints there are special ligaments which retain the bones in apposition. These are—(i) for the proximal radio-ulnar joint, the annular ligament; and