PELVIS 649 distension of the cavities of certain tubular glands which lie in the mucous membrane. The Coats of the Vagina. — The vagina possesses an e.\ternal muscular coat, an internal mucous coat, and an intermediate layer of erectile tissue. The muscular coat is formed of unstriped muscle fibres arranged in two layers, an external longitudinal layer and an internal circular layer, of which the former is much the stronger. The mucous membrane presents two well-marked median longitudinal folds, one on the anterior, and one on the posterior wall. These are termed the columnce rugarum, and from each side they send off numerous transverse ridges, which are arranged so that those of the anterior wall fit in between those on the posterior wall. The folds are best marked near the vaginal orifice, and are absent at the upper part of the canal. The intermediate layer of erectile tissue is thin. Structure of the Uterine Tubes.-—Each uterine tube has an external serous, an intermediate muscular, and an internal mucous lining coat. The serous coat is the peritoneal covering formed by the layers of the broad ligament. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of unstriped muscle fibres. The tube is so narrow in the region of the isthmus that the mucous membrane in that region can only be satisfactorily examined in sections and with the aid of the microscope, but the ampulla is easily opened, and when this has been done the dissector will recognise that the mucous membrane is arranged in longitudinal folds. To obtain a proper idea of the fimbrite the tube should be immersed in water, when they will float out and separate from each other. The Coats of the Rectum and Anal Canal.—The coats of these portions of the intestinal canal are identical in both sexes. The student should refer, therefore, to p. 609, where the walls of the male rectum and anal canal are described. Dissection.—When the dissector has completed his study of the structure of the pelvic viscera he should return to the investigation of the pelvic spinal nerve plexuses, and the sympathetic cord, and the coccygeal body (see p. 608). After he has satisfied himself regarding the fonnation and distribution of the plexuses, and the position and connections of the sympathetic cord, he should study the pelvic diaphragm. The sacro-pudendal and the coccygeal nerve plexuses are the same in both sexes, and the description of their constitu- tion and relations will be found on p. 605.