'I'HE THIGH 201 Intermuscular Septa.—Divide the tractus ilio-iibialis of the fascia lata distal to the point at which it splits to enclose the tensor fasciae lataj. This is done so as to obtain a better view of the vastus lateralis, and in order to demonstrate satisfactorily the lateral intermuscular septum. Take hold of the distal portion of the tractus ilio-tibialis and draw it forcibly laterally ; at the same time push medially the vastus lateralis muscle, and a strong fibrous septum will be seen passing medially from the fascia lata towards the linea aspera. This is the lateral intermuscular septum of the thigh, a partition interposed between the vastus lateralis and the short head of the biceps femoris. Follow it proximally and distally with the finger. The fibres of the vastus lateralis are seen arising from it, but little difficulty will be experienced in making out its attach- ment to the linea aspera and lateral supracondylar ridge of the femur. It extends in a proximal direction as far as the insertion of the glutfeus maximus, whilst distally it reaches the lateral condyle of the femur. Immediately proximal to the lateral condyle of the femur it is pierced by the lateral superior genicular artery and nerve. The medial inter- muscular septmn is interposed between the adductors and the vastus medialis, and should also be examined. It is thin in comparison with the lateral septum. M. Quadriceps Femoris.—This muscle is composed of four portions. The rectus femoris, which is placed in the anterior part of the thigh, and is quite distinct from the others, except at its insertion; the vastus lateralis, vastus inter- medius, and the vastus medialis, which clothe the body of the femur on its lateral, anterior, and medial aspects, and are more or less blended with each other. M. Rectus Femoris.—This muscle arises by two tendinous heads of origin, which may be exposed by dissecting deeply in the interval between the iliacus and tensor fasciae latae. The anterior ox straight head springs from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium (Fig. 74, p. 200); the posterior or reflected head arises, under cover of the glutaeus minimus, from a marked impression on the lateral surface of the ilium, immediately above the upper part of the rim of the acetabulum (Fig. 74, p. 200). It is connected both with the capsule of the hiiD- joint and the deep lamina of the ilio-tibial tract of the fascia lata. At the present stage of dissection it is only possible to display the