ARTICULATIONS 157 above its proximal margin, between the two bones of the forearm, whilst the terminal branch of the volar interosseous artery pierces it about two inches above its distal end. This ligament braces the two bones together in such a manner that forces, passing proximally through the radius, are trans- mitted from the radius to the ulna, and it extends the surface of origin for the muscles of the forearm. By its volar surface it gives origin to the flexor digitorum profundus and the flexor pollicis longus muscles, whilst from its dorsal surface springs fibres of the two extensor muscles of the thumb, the abductor pollicis longus, and the extensor indicis proprius. Chorda Obliqua (O.T. Oblique Ligament).—This is a weak band of fibres which springs from the tuberosity of the ulna, and extends obliquely distally and laterally to find an attach- ment to the radius immediately distal to its tuberosity. It crosses the open space between the bones of the forearm above the proximal border of the interosseous membrane. The chorda obliqua is often absent, and unless the utmost care be taken in removing the adjacent muscles it is apt to be injured. Movements at the Radio-ulnar Joints.—At these articulations the movements of pronation and supination take place. When the limb is in a condition of complete supination the palm of the hand is directed anteriorly, the thumb laterally, and the two bones of the forearm are parallel, the radius lying along the lateral side of the ulna. In the movement of pronation the radius is thrown across the ulna, so that its distal end comes to lie across the volar surface and on the medial side of the ulna. Further, the hand follows the radius in this movement, and the dorsal aspects of both are directed forwards, and the thumb is turned medially. The dissector should analyse, as far as possible in the part upon which he is engaged, the movements at the two radio-ulnar joints which produce these effects. At the same time it should be remembered that results obtained from a limb, in which the dissection has proceeded so far, are apt to be deceptive. In the case of the proximal radio-ulnar joint the movement is simple enough. The head of the radius merely rotates within the annular ligament, and accuracy of motion is obtained by the fovea capituli radii resting and moving upon the rounded capitellum of the humerus. But it should be noticed that the head of the radius does not fit accurately upon the capitellum in all positions of the elbow-joint. In extreme extension and extreme flexion of the elbow it is only partially in contact with it. Therefore the semi-flexed condition of the elbow-joint places the radius in the most favourable position for free and precise movement at the proximal radio-ulnar joint. At the distal radio-ulnar joint the distal end of the radius revolves around the distal end of the ulna. It carries the hand with it, and describes the arc of a circle, the centre of which corresponds to the attachment of the