ABDOMINAL CAVITY 439 pyloric end of the stomach, first backwards to the neck of the gall-bladder, then downwards behind the transverse colon and meso-colon, to the right of the median plane, and finally from right to left, behind the upper part of the mesentery, to the duodeno-jejunal flexure, where it becomes continuous with the jejunum. He will thus demonstrate the continuity of the three portions of the small intestine. Next he should follow the mesentery downwards into the right iliac fossa, where he will find that the terminal portion of the ileum joins the large intestine, a short distance above the lower end of the latter and on its left side. The portion of the large intestine below the entrance of the ileum is a sac which terminates blindly below and is called the ccecum (intestmum ccecum). Turn the caecum and the lowest part of the ileum upwards and to the right to expose the vermiform process, which springs from the medial and posterior aspect of the caecum a short distance below the ileo-caecal junction. The caecum is continuous above with the ascending colon, which must be traced upwards to the right hypochondriac region where, under cover of the anterior part of the lower surface of the liver, it joins the transverse colon at an angular bend, the right colic flexure of the colon (O.T. hepatic flexure). The transverse colon extends across the abdomen from the right to the left hypochondriac region, forming a bold curve with the convexity directed downwards and forwards. It is connected to the stomach by the great omentum and to the posterior wall of the abdomen by the transverse meso-colon. It is exposed when the omentum is turned upwards over the lower part of the costal arch and it will be found to terminate, immediately below the lower extremity of the spleen, by joining the descending colon at a second angular bend, the left colic flexure of the colon (O.T. splenic flexure). The descending colon passes downwards through the left lumbar region, and at the level of the iliac crest it becomes the iliac colon which runs downwards and medially across the left iliac region, parallel with the inguinal ligament, to the brim of the true pelvis, where it becomes the pelvic colon. To expose the pelvic colon lift the coils of small intestine out of the pelvis. It will then be found that the pelvic colon either runs first across to the right side of the pelvis, above the bladder, then back to the left side, and finally downwards and medially to the third piece of the sacrum, where it becomes continuous with the