THE UPPER EXTREMITY 38 should comprise — (i) the reflection of the skin ; (2) the dissection of the cutaneous nerves and vessels; and (3) the cleaning of the latissimus dorsi and trapezius muscles. The remainder of the dissection can be undertaken on the second day. Reflection of the Skin.—The following incisions are necessary;—1. From the tip of the coccyx upwards, along the middle line of the body, to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. 2. From the upper end of the foregoing medial incision transversely, to the tip of the acromion of the scapula. 3. From the lower extremity of the median incision in a curved direction laterally and forwards, along the crest of the ilium, to within two inches of the anterior superior iliac spine. 4. An oblique incision from the spine of the first lumbar vertebra, upwards and laterally, to the posterior fold of the axilla, and along the latter to the arm. The two large flaps which are now mapped out upon the back must be carefully raised from the subjacent fatty tissue. Reflect the upper triangular flap first, and then the lower flap. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).- In subjects which have been allowed to lie for some time on the back the superficial fascia is usually more or less infiltrated with fluid which has gravitated into its meshes, otherwise it has the ordinary characters of superficial fascia (p. 5). Dissection.—In searching for the cutaneous nerves cut boldly down through the superficial fascia, in the direction in which the nerves run (Fig. 17), until the plane is reached at which the superficial and deep fascia blend. It is here that the main trunks are to be found and in a well injected subject the cutaneous arteries will serve as guides. A more rapid way of finding the cutaneous nerves in this region is to reflect the superficial and deep fascia laterally from the vertebral spines in one layer ; the nerves are then found as they issue from the muscles. This plan, however, should only be adopted by the senior student. Vasa Cutanea, Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves).—The cutaneous nerves of the back are derived from the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. As the posterior branches pass backwards, they subdivide into medial and lateral divisions. Both of these supply twigs to the muscles amongst which they lie; but one or the other also contains some sensory fibres which come to the surface, in the shape of a cutaneous nerve, to supply the skin. In the thoracic region the iipper six or seven cutaneous nerves are the terminations of the medial branches of the posterior rami of the thoracic nerves. They become super- ficial close to the vertebral spines, and are to be sought for near the median plane. It is not uncommon to find one or more of them piercing the trapezius one or two inches