14 THE UPPER EXTREMITY the anterior wall. It is formed, from above downwards, by the subscapularis muscle, the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and the teres major muscle. The subscapularis, covering the costal surface of the scapula, takes by far the largest share in the formation of this wall. The narrow tendon of the latissimus dorsi conceals the front of the teres major and only the lower border of the latter muscle is seen below it. The posterior fold of the axilla is formed by the lower border of this wall. The medial wall is constituted by the upper four or five ribs with the intervening intercostal muscles; it is clothed by the corresponding digitations of the serratus anterior muscle. The lateral wall is formed by the humerus and the conjoined 1. Upper end of humerus. 2. Scapula. 3. Rib. 4. Pectoralis major. 5. Serratus anterior. 6. Subscapularis. 7. A.villary vein. 8. Axillary artery. 9. Long head of biceps. 10. Conjoined origin of short head of biceps and coraco-brachi- alis. 11, 12,13. Brachial nerves. Fig. 6.—Diagram of section through the Axilla of the Left Side. proximal parts of the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps brachii. The apex of the space corresponds with the narrow com- munication between the axilla and the root of the neck. It is a triangular interval (which can readily be investigated by the finger when the space is dissected) bounded by the clavicle, first rib, and upper margin of the scapula, and through it pass the great axillary vessels and brachial nerves on their way from the neck to the arm. The wide base of the axilla is closed by the vaulted axillary fascia. Contents of the Axilla.—The axillary artery and vein, with the great brachial nerves and the axillary lymph vessels and lymph glands, constitute the most important contents of the axilla. Except at the summit of the space, they lie close to the lateral wall, and follow it in all the movements of the arm. Disser/iou.—Cut througli llie clavicular fibre.s of the [lectoralis major,