ABDOMINAL WALL 377 the two recti muscles. It is an important line to the surgeon, because here the wall of the abdomen is thin and devoid of blood-vessels. In this line the trocar is intro- duced into the abdomen in the operation of paracentesis abdominis or tapping. In the linear depression, rather nearer the pubes than the ensiform cartilage, is the umbilicus or navel. This is a depressed and puckered cicatrix, the floor of which is raised in the form of a little button-like knob. It results from the closure of an opening, in the abdominal wall of the foetus, through which passed the constituents of the umbilical cord —viz. the umbilical vein, the two allantoic or umbilical arteries, and the stalk of the allantois. In powerful, well-developed subjects the rectus muscle stands out on each side of the middle line, and its lateral margin gives rise to a curved line, the concavity of which is directed medially. This line corresponds to the linea semi- lunaris—i.e. the line along which the aponeurotic tendon of the internal oblique muscle splits to enclose the rectus. The linea semilunaris may, on certain occasions, be selected by the surgeon as the site for incisions through the abdominal wall. The student should now place his finger upon the upper part of the symphysis pubis and carry it laterally, over the pubic crest, to the pubic tubercle; from this he should follow the line of the inguinal ligament (Poupart’s) to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and, havipg identified these parts, he should next endeavour to determine the position of the subcutaneous inguinal ring (O.T. external abdominal). This is easily done in a male subject. Immediately lateral to the tubercle of the os pubis the spermatic cord can be felt as it passes over the inguinal ligament to reach the scrotum. Taking this as a guide, push the loose skin of the scrotum upwards before the finger. The tip of the finger enters the opening, the sharp margins of which can now be felt. The spermatic cord, as it passes downwards into the scrotum, should be taken between the finger and thumb. On pressure being applied the ductus deferens can be easily distinguished at the back of the cord, by the hard whipcord- like feel that it conveys to the fingers. The crest of the ilium, as it proceeds upwards and back- wards from the anterior superior spine, can be easily felt. Indeed, in most cases, it is visible to the eye for a distance