DISSECTION OF THE BACK 47 of the long thoracic nerve. It pierces the scalenus medius, and then proceeds downwards, under cover of the levator scapulae, to the deep surface of the rhomboidei muscles to which it is distributed. The dorsalis scapulae nerve likewise supplies one or two twigs to the levator scapulae. The dorsalis scapulae nerve sometimes pierces the levator scapulae in two or more branches, which unite in a plexi- form manner. Ramus Descendens of the Art. Transversa Colli (O.T. Posterior Scapular Artery).—The descending branch of the transverse cervical artery takes origin in the lower part of the neck close to the lateral margin of the levator scapulae. At first it proceeds medially under cover of this muscle, but soon changing its direction it runs downwards along the base or vertebral border of the scapula under cover of the rhomboid muscles (Fig. 17, p. 39). It gives numerous branches to both costal and dorsal aspects of the scapula, and its terminal twigs may enter the latissimus dorsi. One large branch usually passes backwards, in the interval between the rhomboid muscles or through the greater rhomboid, to reach the trapezius muscle; and another branch, the supraspinal, is given to the supraspinatus muscle, and the structures superficial to it. Reflection of Latissimus Dorsi.—Divide the muscle by carrying the knife from its upper margin, about three inches from the vertebral spines, obliquely downwards to a point a little way behind its digitation from the last rib. In raising the medial portion of the muscle care must be taken of the subjacent serratus posterior inferior. The attachment of the latissimus dorsi to the crest of the ilium and to the lumbar aponeurosis can now be verified. The lateral part of the muscle is next to be thrown forwards, so that the three costal digitations may be seen from their dee]) aspect, and also for the purpose of displaying the termination of the sub- scapular artery and the thoracodorsal nerve. These are found upon fhe deep surface of the muscle at the inferior angle of the scapula. The Removal of the Upper Extremity.—After the costal attachments of the latissimus dorsi have been displayed the upper e.xtremity must be removed. Draw the extremity away from the body ; detach the costal slips of the latissimus, cut through the serratus anterior about one inch from the vertebral border of the scapula; divide the dorsal scapular nerve, the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, the transverse scapular artery and the suprascapular nerve. Cut through the axillary vessels and the cords of the brachial plexus at the lateral border of the first rib; detach the anterior skin flap