SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION 57 Joint).—This is a diarthrodial joint, and the ligaments which bind the bones together are :— Ligaments proper to the f i. Superior ) joint . . . \ 2. Inferior / ‘ ^ Accessory ligaments—Coraco-clavicular | The siiperior acromio-clavicular ligament is a broad band, composed of stout fibres, which is placed on the upper aspect of the joint. The inferior acromio-clavictclar ligafnent which closes the joint below is not so strongly developed. In front and behind, these ligaments are connected with each other so as to constitute a capsule. The joint should now be opened, when it will be seen to be lined by a synovial membrane. An imperfect meniscus is also usually present. It is wedge-shaped, and connected by its base to the superior ligament, whilst its free margin is directed downwards between the bones. Lig. Coracoclaviculare (Coraco-clavicular Ligament).—This powerful ligament binds the under surface of the clavicle to the base of the coracoid process. When thoroughly cleaned and defined it will be seen to consist of two parts, which are termed the conoid and the trapezoid ligaments. The ligamentum conoideum placed upon the posterior and medial aspect of the lig. trapezoideum is broad above, where it is attached to the coracoid tubercle of the clavicle 5> P- 12), and somewhat narrower below at its attach- ment to the medial part of the root of the coracoid process. The ligamentum trapezoideum is the anterior and lateral part. Above, it is attached along the trapezoid line of the clavicle (Fig. 5, p. 12), whilst below it is fixed to the upper aspect of the coracoid process. In the recess between these two ligaments a bursa mucosa will usually be found. Arcus Coracoacromialis (Coraco-acromial Arch). — It is necessary to examine this arch at the present stage, as the next step in the dissection will, in a great measure, destroy it. It is the arch which overhangs the shoulder-joint and protects it from above. It is formed by the coracoid process, the acromion, and a ligament—the coraco-acromial—which stretches between them. The ligamentum coracoacrotniale is a strong band of a some- what triangular shape. By its base it is attached to the lateral