41 DISSECTION OF THE BACK the muscle. The knife must always be carried in the direction of the muscular fibres: and care must be taken to leave none of the thin, filmy deep fascia behind. As the direction of the fibres changes the position of the arm must also be changed to keep the fibres which are being cleaned on the stretch. In the case of the left trapezius, the student must make the incision through the fascia, along the lower margin of the muscle, and work upwards to the level of the seventh cervical vertebra. In removing the fascia from the trapezius, and indeed throughout the whole dissection of the back, the cutaneous nerves must be carefully preserved, in order that the dissector of the head and neck may have an opportunity of establishing their continuity with the trunks from which they arise. M. Trapezius.—The trapezius is a flat, triangular muscle, which lies, in its entire extent, immediately subjacent to the deep fascia. It has a very long origin, which extends along the median plane, from the occiput above to the level of the last dorsal vertebra below. It arises from—(i) the medial Fig. 18.—Upper Surface of the Right Clavicle. Sterno'hyoid third or less of the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone and the external occipital protuberance ; (2) the ligamentum nuchge and the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra; (3) the tips of the spines of all the thoracic vertebrae, as well as the supraspinous ligaments which bridge across the intervals between them (Fig. 17). In the lower cervical and upper thoracic regions the tendinous fibres by which the muscle arises lengthen out so as to form a flat tendon, which, taken in conjunction with the corresponding aponeurosis of the opposite side, exhibits an oval outline. As the fibres of the trapezius pass laterally they converge, to gain an insertion into the two bones of the shoulder-girdle. The occipital and upper cervical fibres incline downwards, and, turning forwards over the shoulder, are inserted into the lateral third of the posterior border of the clavicle (Fig. 1 8); the loiver cervical and upper thoracic fibres pass more or less trans- versely to gain an insertion into the medial border of