Superficial Dissection. 'I'his dissection comprises the examination of the following parts:— 1. Superficial fascia. ' 2. Vena saphena niagna and its tributaries. 3. Art. Pudenda externa superficialis. 4. Art. Epigastrica superficialis. 5. Art. Circumflexa ilium superficialis. 6. Lymph glands and vessels. 7. The fossa ovalis. S. Cutaneous nerves. 9. The fascia femoris. 10. The bursm patellK. Reflection of the Skin.—huisions.—(i) From the anterior superior iliac spine along the line of the inguinal ligament to the symphysis pubis ; (2) from the medial extremity of the first incision distally along the margin of the scrotum, then along the junction of the medial with the posterior aspect of the thigh and across the medial aspect of the knee to the level of the tuberosity of the tibia ; {3) from the distal end of the vertical incision transversely across the anterior surface of the leg to its lateral border. The quadrilateral flap of integument thus mapped out must be raised carefully from the subjacent superficial fascia and turned laterally, particular care being taken in the region of the knee to avoid injury to the patellar plexus of cutaneous nerves. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—The fatty super- ficial fascia which is now exposed is continuous with the corresponding layer on the front of the abdomen, and it is regarded by some anatomists as being composed of two layers. This subdivision is needless and artificial. In the lower part of the abdominal wall, above the inguinal liga- ment, it is true the superficial fascia presents two distinct strata—one a fatty layer continuous, over the inguinal liga- ment, with the superficial fascia of the anterior part of the thigh, and sometimes termed the fascia of Cainper-, the other, a deeper layer, firm and membranous and devoid of fat, called the fascia of Scarpa. As this latter fascial stratum is attached to the fascia femoris (deep fascia of the thigh) immediately below the inguinal ligament, it is necessary that it should receive some attention. To demonstrate the fascia of Scarpa the dissectors of the lower extremity and abdomen should work in conjunction with each other. A transverse incision should be made through the entire thickness of the superficial fascia on the front of the abdomen, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the medial line of the body. On raising the lower edge of