PELVIS 617 meni).—The sacro-tuberous ligament has a wide attachment to the posterior superior and posterior inferior iliac spines and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx. Narrowing consider- ably as it proceeds downwards and forwards, it again expands, and is inserted into the medial border of the tuberosity of the ischium. From this it sends upwards a sharp falcifortn edge, which extends forwards for a short distance upon the inferior ramus of the ischium, and gives attachment to the parietal pelvic fascia. It should be noticed that at its ischial attach- ment some of the fibres of the ligament pass continuously into the tendon of the biceps femoris muscle. Ligamentitm Sacrospinosum (O.T. Small Sacro-sciaiic Liga- ment).—The sacro-spinous ligament is triangular in form. By its base it is fixed to the side of the sacrum and coccyx in front of the sacro-tuberous ligament, the fibres of both mingling together; by its apex it is attached to the spine of the ischium. The pelvic surface of this ligament presents an extremely intimate connection with the coccygeus muscle j indeed, it is generally believed that the ligament is derived from the posterior part of the muscle by the fibrous degenera- tion of its fasciculi. The sacro-tuberous and the sacro-spinous ligaments convert the sciatic notches of the hip bone into foramina. Through the great sciatic foramen pass the superior glutaeal vessels and nerve, the piriformis muscle, the pudendal and inferior gluteal vessels and nerve, the nerve to the obturator internus, and the nerve to the quadratus femoris. The stnall sciatic foramen transmits the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, the pudendal vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The sacro-iliac joint is a diarthrodial joint. The ligaments of the joint should now be divided, and the two bones forcibly wrenched asunder. It will then be seen that each articular surface is covered with a plate of cartilage, and that a small synovial space intervenes between and partially separates the two plates. The sacro-iliac joint is not immovable, as is sometimes stated. A slight amount of movement can take place—the sacrum rotating round an imaginary line drawn transversely through its second piece from one side to the other. In the erect posture the promontory of the sacrum is withdrawn to the full extent from the symphysis; when the body is bent