INFERIOR EXTREMITY 190 Arteria Femoralis (O.T. Femoral Artery, Common and Superficial).—The femoral artery, the great arterial trunk of the inferior extremity, is the direct continuation of the external iliac. It begins at the inguinal ligament, behind which it enters the thigh, and it extends distally to the open- ing in the adductor magnus, through which it gains the fossa poplitea and becomes the popliteal artery. This opening is situated in the distal third of the medial region of the thigh, and the course which the vessel pursues may be marked on the surface, when the thigh is slightly abducted and rotated laterally, by an oblique line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis to the medial condyle of the femur. The relations which the artery bears to the femur are im- portant. As it enters the femoral triangle it passes from the brim of the pelvis and comes to lie in front of the medial part of the head of the femur, from which it is separated by the psoas muscle. Although its relation to the bone is tolerably intimate, this situation should not be chosen for applying compression. On account of the mobility of the head of the bone there is a liability for the vessel to slip from under the fingers. It is much safer to compress it against the brim of the pelvis. Below the head of the femur, during the re- mainder of its course through the femoral triangle, the artery is not in direct relation to the bone. It crosses anterior to the angular interval between the neck and body of the femur. Towards the apex of the space, however, it comes into relation with the medial side of the body of the femur, and this position it holds to its termination. In the present condition of the dissection it is only that part of the femoral artery which traverses the femoral triangle which comes under the notice of the dissector. The length of this part varies with the development of the sartorius muscle, and the degree of obliquity with which this crosses the front of the thigh. It measures from three to four inches in length, and is comparatively superficial throughout its entire course. At the apex of the triangle the femoral artery disappears under cover of the sartorius and takes up a deeper position in the limb. In the femoral triangle the femoral artery is enveloped in its proximal part by the femoral sheath, and is separated from the surface by the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, whilst