FEMALE PERINEUM 371 The sphincter vagince is the representative of the biilbo- cavernosus of the male. It is a true sphincter muscle, and consists of two halves, which are placed one on each side of the vaginal orifice and vestibule, closely adapted to tlie surfaces of the two halves of the vaginal bulb. Posteriorly the fibres of opposite sides unite behind the vaginal opening, and are attached to the central point of the perineum, some of the fibres intermixing with those of the sphincter ani. Anteriorly the two portions of the muscle become narrower, and, converging tow^ards the middle line, are attached to the sides of the clitoris. In some cases a small fasciculus, on each side, may be observed to reach the dorsum of the clitoris and there gain insertion into a tendinous expansion w'hich lies superficial to the dorsal vein. This fasciculus is comparable with the anterior fibres of the bulbo-cavernosus of the male, which embrace the circumference of the body of the penis. Perineal Triangle.—The dissector should now observe that the three perineal muscles form the sides of a small triangle, the floor of which is constituted by the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. Perineal Body.—It has been already stated that the term “perineum” is confined by the obstetrician to the narrow interval between the frenulum pudendi and the anus. Now that this part has been dissected, it will be seen to consist of an indefinite mass of fibrous and muscular tissue, which occupies the interval betw'een the anal canal and the vagina. This is known as the permeal body. Muscular tissue belonging to the sphincter ani, levatores ani, and sphincter vaginje, together wdth the central point of the perineum, enter into its constitution. Dissection.—The sphincter vaginie should now be carefully raised from the surface of the bulb, and the ischio-cavernosus from the surface of the crus clitoridis. The transversus perinei superlicialis may be removed at the same time. Bulb of the Vestibule.—The bulb of the vestibule is now di.splayed. It consists of two oblong bodies, composed of erectile tissue, placed one on each side of the vestibule and entrance to the vagina. Somewhat narrow in front, they expand as they pass backw'ards, and each is invested by a fibrous capsule derived from the urogenital dia[)hragm, upon the inferior surface of which they rest. Laterally each presents a rounded convex surface w'hich is coated with the sphincter vaginae muscle, whilst each erectile mass rests, medially, upon