FOREARM AND HAND 109 medial aspects of the ulna; the flexor pollicis longus is placed upon the volar surface of the radius; while the pronator quadratus is a quadrate fleshy layer closely applied to both bones immediately proximal to the wrist. The artery and nerve proceed distally in the interval between the flexor pro- fundus and flexor pollicis longus. M. Flexor Digitoruin Profundus.—The deep flexor of the fingers springs from the volar and medial surfaces of the ulna in its proximal three-fourths. It likewise derives fibres from the volar surface of the interosseous membrane and the aponeurosis by which the flexor carpi ulnaris takes origin from the dorsal border of the ulna. The fleshy mass gives place to four tendons for the four medial digits, but only one of these—that for the index finger—becomes separate and distinct in the forearm. They proceed distally, deep to the transverse carpal ligament, into the palm. The flexor digitorum profundus is supplied by the volar interosseous branch of the median and by the ulnar fierve. M. Flexor Pollicis Longus.—The flexor pollicis longus arises from the volar surface of the radius, over an area which extends from the volar border above to the proximal border of the pronator quadratus below. It also takes origin from the adjacent part of the volar surface of the interosseous membrane. A rounded tendon issues from the fleshy belly, and proceeds into the palm, under cover of the transverse carpal ligament. In many cases the flexor pollicis longus will be observed to have an additional slender head of origin, from the medial border of the coronoid process of the ulna, or the medial epicondyle of the humerus. The flexor pollicis longus is supplied by the volar interosseous nerve. M. Pronator Quadratus.—This is a quadrate muscle which takes origin from the volar surface of the ulna in its distal fourth, and is inserted into the volar aspect of the distal end of the radius. It is supplied by the volar interosseous nerve. Arteria Interossea Volaris (O.T. Anterior Interosseous Artery).—The volar interosseous artery has been seen to arise from the common interosseous artery. It runs distally upon the volar surface of the interosseous membrane, in the interval between the flexor pollicis longus and the flexor digitorum profundus. At the proximal border of the pronator