THE UPPER EXTREMITY 88 those of the nerve. Before it reaches the lateral inter- muscular septum, it ends by dividing into two terminal branches —an anterior and a posterior. The anterior and smaller branch accompanies the radial nerve through the septum, and follows it distally to the anterior aspect of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, where it anastomoses with the radial recurrent arteries. The posterior larger branch descends on the posterior surface of the lateral intermuscular septum, and anastomoses on the back of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus with the interosseous recurrent artery. The branches which proceed from the art. profunda brachii are chiefly distributed to the three heads of the triceps muscle. One twig ascends between the long and lateral heads of the muscle, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus. In this way, a link is established between the axillary and brachial systems of branches. Dissection.—The ulnar nerve, with the superior ulnar collateral artery, and the slender ulnar collateral nerve, can now be advantageously followed, as they proceed distally upon the posterior aspect of the medial inter- muscular septum. They are covered by a thin layer of fleshy fibres belonging to the medial head of the triceps. The posterior branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery, after it has pierced the medial septum, should also be dissected out. As a rule, a transverse branch passes between this vessel and the posterior terminal part of the a. profunda brachii. It lies upon the posterior aspect of the humerus, immediately above the elbow-joint, and can be exposed by dividing the triceps muscle a short distance above the olecranon. At the same time the fleshy fibres of the medial head of the triceps, which are inserted into the posterior part of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and constitute the subancomcus muscle, should be examined. Lastly, raise the lower piece of the triceps from the elbow-joint, and look for a small bursa mucosa between the deep surface of the triceps tendon and the upper aspect of the olecranon. ARTICULATIO HUMERI (SHOULDER-JOINT). Before proceeding to the dissection of the forearm it is advisable to study the articulatio humeri (shoulder-joint), because if this is deferred too long the ligaments are apt to become dry. In no joint in the body is the movement so free, and so varied in its character, as in the shoulder-joint. This is rendered necessary by the many functions which are performed by the upper limb. P'reedom of motion is provided for in two ways—(i) by the large size of the head of the humerus, in comparison with the small dimensions and shallow character