555 ABDOMINAL CAVI'l'Y traced to the medial border of the psoas. They are now observed to pass backwards behind this muscle to the intervals between the transverse processes of the vertebras, where each gives off a dorsal branch. Each dorsal branch runs backwards, between the transverse processes, and, after giving a spinal branch which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen, it ends in the muscles and integument of the back. After givingoff their ^^ri’a/branches the trunks of thearteries, with the exception of the last, proceed laterally behind the quadratus lumborum, and are then directed forwards between the internal oblique and transversus muscles, where they anastomose, above with the intercostal arteries, below with the deep circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries, and in front with the branches of the superior and inferior epigastric arteries. The last abdominal branch, as a rule, passes in front of the quadratus lumborum. Vense Lumbales (LumbarVeins).—These vessels accompany the corresponding arteries, and pour their blood into the inferior vena cava. The veins of the left side pass behind the aorta. The lumbar veins of each side are linked together, in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrae, by anastomosing channels which form a continuous longitudinal vessel, called the ascending lumbar vein. By its upper end this venous trunk is connected with the corresponding azygos vein. Last Thoracic or Subcostal Artery.—At this stage of the dissection the subcostal artery, the last parietal branch of the thoracic aorta, will be seen crossing the upper part of the quadratus lumborum in company with the last thoracic nerve. It lies in series with the abdominal branches of the lumbar arteries. Dissection.—The lower limbs having, by this time, been removed from the trunk, the pelvis also may be detached. Place a ligature around the aorta and inferior vena cava at the level of the bifurcation of the former, and divide them immediately above this point. Then carry the knife through the intervertebral disc which intervenes between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, and, having cut the nerves and soft parts, complete the separation of the pelvis from the remainder of the trunk by means of the saw. PELVIS. The pelvis, using the term in its widest sense, is the region bounded posteriorly by the sacrum and coccyx, and laterally