ABDOMEN 488 number varies much, but the average number may be stated to be about thirty. They are more numerous in the young, and not so abundant nor so distinctly marked out in later periods of life. Indeed, in very old individuals they may disappear almost entirely. The solitary lymph nodules are isolated lymph follicles, scattered everywhere over the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They are minute, rounded or ovoid, opaque white bodies, about the size of a millet seed, and they usually cause a slight bulging of the mucous membrane at the points where they occur. The pllcce drculares^ the villi^ and aggregated ly^nph nodules are the only special peculiarities of the mucous membrane of the jejunum and ileum which are visible to the naked eye, and, from what has been said regarding them, the dissector will understand that although they are not arranged in such a way as to mark off by a clear line of demarcation the jejunum from the ileum, they are sufficient to enable him to distinguish between characteristic portions of each—i.e. between portions taken at some distance from the arbitrary line of division. The following are the essential points of difference which would guide him in deciding which is ileum and which jejunum :— Jejunum. Plica Circttlares. Ileum. Numerous and well marked. Few in number and poorly de- veloped, and, in its lower part, absent altogether. Villi. Numerous and large. | Not so numerous and not so I large. Aggregated Lymph Nodules. b'ew in number, small in size. More numerous, of large size, and and, as a rule, nearly circular oblong in form, in outline. The general position and the constituent portions of the large intestine have already been noted (p. 439); the positions and relations of the individual parts must now be studied more completely. The Csecum and Vermiform Process.—The cmcum forms the commencement of the large gut. It has the appearance of a sacculated pouch, 2\ inches long and 3 inches broad, continuous above with the ascending colon, and on the