537 ABDOMINAL CAVITY arise from both of these arcuate bands; those from the medial arch are more numerous and better marked than those which take origin from the lateral arch, and they are continuous with the fleshy fibres of the crus. Very frequently a gap or interval exists between the fibres which spring from the lateral arch and those which arise directly from the last rib. The anterior, lateral, and posterior attachments of the diaphragm are therefore marked off by intervals from each other. The crura of the diaphragm are two thick fleshy processes which descend upon the bodies of the upper lumbar vertebrae, tapering as they proceed downwards. They end in pointed tendinous extremities. The right crus is the larger and longer of the two. It takes origin from the bodies of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, and the intervertebral discs which intervene between them. The left crus springs from the left side of the bodies of the first two lumbar vertebrae. It is much smaller, and lies upon a plane posterior to the right crus. Follow the crura upwards; opposite the last dorsal vertebra they will be observed to be connected across the middle line by a strong fibrous band which arches over the aorta. From the upper border of this fibrous arch fleshy fibres arise which join both crura, and on this account it is called the ligamentum arcuatum medium. It may be regarded as a law that wherever an artery pierces the origin or insertion of a muscle, and comes to lie between bone and muscular fibres, it is protected by a fibrous arch. Of this nature is the arch in question, and also the fibrous arch thrown over the superior profunda artery on the back of the humerus, and the fibrous arches in the adductor magnus for the passage of the perforating arteries, and the femoral artery itself. Above the level of the ligamentum arcuatum medium the fleshy fibres of the crura diverge and ascend to join the posterior border of the central tendon. The most medial fibres of each crus, however, decussate so as to separate the aortic from the oesophageal openings. The decussating fasciculus of the right crus is always the larger of the two, and moreover it usually passes behind the decussating fasciculus of the left crus. It is the custom of some authors to divide each crus into three parts, a lateral crus, an intermediate crus, and a medial crus. The lateral crus is formed by the fibres which spring from the medial lumbo-costal arch. It is separated from the intermediate crus by the sympathetic cord. The inter- mediate crus is separated from the medial crus by the splanchnic nerves. In many cases, however, the subdivisions are not distinct.