639 PELVIS cervix is devoid of peritoneum, and is in direct relation with the fundus of the bladder. The lateral borders of the uterus are connected with the broad ligaments, and between the layers of the ligaments they are associated with the uterine artery, and the uterine plexus of veins, which is embedded in a mass of loose fatty tissue called the parmnetrium. The parametric tissue is most abundant in the region of the upper part of the vagina and at the side of the neck of the uterus. Ligamentum Teres Uteri (Round Ligament).—The round ligaments of the uterus are two cord-like bands, one on each side, composed of involuntary muscle fibres and connective tissue. They are attached to the body of the uterus immediately below and in front of the entrance of the uterine tubes. Each ligament runs forwards and laterally from the uterus, between the layers of the broad ligament, to the side wall of the pelvis. There it lies for a short distance on the external iliac vessels, and then turns round the inferior epigastric artery, and passes through the abdominal inguinal ring into the inguinal canal, where it has already been examined. It represents the lower part of the gubernaculum of the ovary, the upper part being represented by the ligament of the ovary. Position of the Uterus. — In women who have borne no children (nulliparae), and in whom the bladder and the rectum are both empty, the uterus is normally anteflexed and anteverted. The statement that the uterus is anteflexed, means that it is bent forwards on itself at the isthmus, so that the body and the cervix meet at an angle which is open in front. This forward flexion depends upon two circumstances, viz. (i) upon the greater pliability of the body as compared with the firmer consistence and greater resistance of the cervix; and (2) upon the fact that the cervix is more or less held in position by its attachments to the anterior vaginal wall and the fundus of the bladder in front, and to the posterior vaginal wall behind. The term anteversion means that the whole uterus—body and cervix—is inclined forwards and forms an angle of greater or less magnitude with the vertical axis of the trunk. In this position of the uterus, coils of small intestine and a loop of the pelvic colon rest upon its posterior surface, and its anterior surface is supported by the bladder. It is only on rare occasions that a coil of small