AXILLARY SPACE 21 the lateral thoracic artery, and receives lymph from the lateral wall of the thorax. (3) A posterior or subscapular grouj) which lie along the subscapular artery on the posterior wall of the axilla, and receive lymphatics from the back. (4) The infraclavicular glands, a group of two or three small glands which lie in the deltopectoral triangle and receive lymph from the upper and lateral parts of the arm. In addition a central or intermediate and a subclavicular group of glands are described. The central group lies either on the super- ficial aspect of the axillary fascia, in a pocket of its sub- stance, or deep to the axillary fascia embedded in the adipose tissue of the axilla. The subclavicular glands, from six to twelve in number, lie in the apex of the axilla, they receive afferent vessels from all the lower groups, and their efferents unite together to form the subclaviati lymphatic trunk. The student should note that although the various subgroups are more or less separate, and are particularly associated with definite regions from which they receive lymph, nevertheless they are linked together by lymphatic vessels; therefore micro-organisms which have gained entry into the lymph stream and lymph-borne cancer cells can readily pass from one subgroup to another. Rami Laterales (O.T. Lateral Cutaneous Branches) of the Anterior Divisions of the Second and Third Thoracic Nerves. —As a rule, the first thoracic nerve does not give off a lateral branch. That which springs from the second thoracic nerve is the largest of the series, and differs from the others in not dividing into an anterior and posterior branch. It is termed the intercosto-brachial nerve., on account of its being distributed to the skin on the medial and dorsal aspects of the upper part of the arm. To reach this destination it crosses the axilla and pierces the deep fascia. But before doing so it establishes communications and forms a plexiform arrange- ment in the axilla with the medial brachial cutaneous nerve, and the lateral cutaneous branch of the third thoracic nerve. This plexus may be joined by another twig, which is occa- sionally present, viz. the minute lateral cutaneous branch of the first thoracic nerve. The lateral cutaneous branch of the third thoracic nerve divides into an anterior and posterior part, which are dis- tributed in the ordinary way. From the posterior branch twigs are given to the skin of the axilla, and the terminal