ARTICULATIONS 335 Naviculo-cuneiform Articulation.^—The three cuneiform bones articulate with the anterior surface of the navicular. They are held in position by dorsal ligaments, which pass from the dorsal surface of the navicular to the dorsal surface of each of the cuneiform bones, and by plantar ligaments, which are similarly disposed. The strength of the plantar ligaments is greater than that of the dorsal ligaments, and they are very largely formed by slips from the tendon of the tibialis posterior. The dissector may now divide freely all the dorsal and the most medial of the plantar naviculo-cuneiform ligaments. The navicular bone can then be drawn posteriorly so as to expose the interior of the joint. The knife may also be carried round the lateral side of the lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament. A much better view of this ligament is thus obtained, although this dissection entails the division of the dorsal naviculo-cuboid ligament. The convex anterior articular surface of the navicular fits into a transversely concave socket, which is formed for it by the proximal surfaces of the three cuneiform bones, and often by a small facet on the medial surface of the cuboid as well. The articular surface of the navicular is divided by prominent ridges into areas or facets corresponding with the different parts of the socket in which it lies. The synovial membrane, which lines this joint, is prolonged forwards into the intercuneiform joints. Naviculo-cuboid and Cubo-cuneiform Articulations.—It has been noted that the anterior pillar of the longitudinal arch of the foot consists of a lateral and a medial column. The tarsal portions of these are connected together by the naviculo- cuboid and the cubo-cuneiform articulations. It is only occasionally that the navicular touches and articulates directly with the medial surface of the cuboid. When it does so, the facet on the cuboid lies in series with the articular surfaces on the proximal ends of the cunei- form bones, and forms with them the socket for the distal surface of the navicular. The ligaments which bind the navicular to the cuboid are disposed transversely, and consist of—(i) a series of short strong interosseous fibres which bind the opposed surfaces together; (2) a dorsal band ; and (3) a plantar band. The dorsal band has previously been divided in exposing the interior of the naviculo-cuneiform joint and in defining the bI lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament, but the interosseous and l«j plantar ligaments may be readily displayed.