ABDOMINAL CAVITY 445 wards, immediately to the left of the line of attachment of the falciform ligament. On the lower surface the knife must be carried backwards along the umbilical fossa, close to its left margin, and it must emerge on the . posterior surface in the fossa for the ductus venosus and close to the left margin of that fossa (see Fig. 170). The portion of liver removed must be carefully preserved so that it may afterwards be reattached to the right lobe. Omentum Minus (The Lesser Omentum).—The lesser omentum is a fold of peritoneum which connects the lesser curvature of the stomach and the first part of the duodenum with the margins of the porta hepatis (O.T. transverse fissure) on the lower surface of the liver, and with the margins of the fossa for the ductus venosus on the posterior surface. Its lower and left margin is attached to the stomach and duodeum ; its upper margin is attached to the liver; and its right border is free and forms the anterior boundary of an aperture, the foramen efiploicum (O.T. foramen of Winslow), which connects the cavity of the larger part of the peritoneal sac, the greater sac, with the smaller part, the bursa omentalis. The guide to this aperture is the gall-bladder, and if the dissector carries his finger upwards and backwards along the lower surface of the gall- bladder to its neck, and then turns it backwards and to the left he will find that it passes through the epiploic foramen into the omental bursa. The lesser omentum contains a large number of important structures. Two of the arteries which supply the stomach, the hepatic artery and the portal vein which carry blood to the liver, the bile ducts through which the bile is conducted to the duodenum, and numerous nerves, lymph vessels, and lymph glands lie between its layers. The dissector should now display these structures by removing the anterior layer of the fold. It is not probable that he will be able to remove it in a continuous sheet, but he must take care not to destroy the posterior layer. Disseclion.—Commence at the upper border of the stomach, immediately below the oesophagus, and expose the left gastric artery, follow this down- wards to its ana.stomosis with the right gastric branch of the hepatic artery, and upwards to the point at which it gives off its oesophageal branch ; trace the latter along the oesophagus to the diaphragm. Remove the peritoneum from the front of the oesophagus and find the left vagus nei-ve, which descends on the front of the lower end of the oesophagus. Trace the terminal branches of the nerve to the wall of the stomach and into the lesser omentum. Whilst cleaning the left gastric artery the dissector may possibly see some of i\\c cardiac lymph glands of the stomach at the upper