PREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION IV regular and definite than that hitherto in use, and, therefore, it tends to inculcate greater definiteness of idea and statement. Secondly, because it has been very generally adopted in Canada, Australia, and America, and will be adopted in the new anatomical department of the South African College. Therefore, if we in Great Britain and Ireland retain the old terms, it will not be long before students and graduates who have been educated in the British Colonies and America will have difficulty in understanding the terminology in use in this country, and the blame for the un- necessary confusion which will result will lie with those of us who refuse to adapt ourselves, and fail to encourage our students to adapt themselves, to changing conditions. It is not for a moment suggested that the Basle anatomical terminology is perfect, indeed in many respects it might easily be improved, but on the whole it is simpler, more definite, and more instructive than the old terminology, particularly for the beginner, to whom the old terms are unknown ; moreover, it uses only one designation for each structure and, therefore, avoids the superfluity of terms which is one of the great drawbacks of the older nomen- clature. Thus it presents several advantages, and its deflciencies can easily be remedied, with a minimum of trouble, by the altera- tion of a few terms ; for the main principles are sound and are easily applied to details which were not considered at the Basle congress. It is admitted that the adoption of the Basle nomenclature will, for a time, be a source of some trouble to medical men to whom the old terms are familiar, but the difficulty can be alleviated by the frequent repetition of the old term after the new, when the former differs considerably from the latter—a plan which has been adopted in this volume. To further facilitate the transition from the older to the newer terminology, the glossary of the more important terms, indicating the differences between the old and the new, which was introduced in the last edition, and for which my thanks are due to Mr. J. Keogh Murphy, has been retained, but whilst the old terms were placed first, and the new last, in the old edition, the position has been reversed in this. Our experience in Edinburgh, during the past two years, encourages the belief that under the system outlined above, and adopted in this volume, the transition from the old to the new terminology will be the source of very little trouble to the student, whilst it will excite his interest and lead him to appreciate the value of terms which themselves convey instruction in anatomy as contrasted with others which have only historical associations. ARTHUR ROBINSON.