INFERIOR EXTREMITY i66 INFERIOR EXTREMITY. THE THIGH. On the morning of the fourth day after the subject has been brought into the dissecting room it is placed upon the table lying upon its back, the pelvis is supported by two blocks, and the inferior extremities are stretched out at full length. In this position it is allowed to remain for five days and during that period the dissector of the inferior extremity has a very extensive dissection to perform. He has to dissect (r) the anterior region of the thigh, including the irigomim femorale and its contents, (2) the medial region of the thigh, in- cluding the adductor canal and its contents. With so much work to be completed, within a limited time, he must appor- tion the five days to the best advantage. During the first day he should dissect the superficial structures of the whole of the anterior and medial aspects of the thigh. During the second and third days he should complete the dissection of the femoral triangle and the anterior region of the thigh, and the remainder of the period should be devoted to the dissec- tion of the medial region. Surface Anatomy.—Before the skin is reflected the surface markings of the anterior, the lateral, and medial region of the thigh must be examined. A faint sulcus at the superior extremity of the a?iterior region is the boundary line between the inguinal region of the abdomen and the subinguinal region of the thigh. The resistance felt deep to the sulcus is due to the ligamentum inguinale (O.T. Pouparfs Ligament) which is attached, at the lateral and superior end of the sulcus, to the a?iterior superior iliac spine, and its inferior and medial end to the tubercle of the pubis. From the anterior superior iliac spine the C7‘ista iliaca can be traced laterally and dorsally, and from the pubic tubercle the finger should be carried medially, along the pubic crest, to the superior end of the sy?nphysis pubis. Next the finger should be passed downwards, along the front of the symphysis pubis, to the superior margin of the arcus pubis and thence downwards and dorsally,' along the rami of the pubis and ischium, which mark the superior boundary of the medial femoral region, to the tuber