ABDOMEN 494 another pair of ligatures round the left part of the transverse colon near the left colic flexure. Divide the transverse colon between the ligatures at each end, then cut the transverse colon away from the remains of the transverse meso-colon and its contents. Take the separated portions of the large intestine to the sink, remove the ligatures and wash out the cavity of each part with running water. In one piece carefully divide the longitudinal bands of muscle in the intervals between the sacculi of the wall, then pull on the extremities and note (i) that the intestine lengthens, (2) that to a great extent the sacculi disappears, and (3) that when the tension is removed the piece of intestine does not return to its former length. This simple experiment shows that it is the shortness of the longitudinal bands which causes the puckered condition of the wall of the large gut. Open both the separated portions and note that the mucous membrane is devoid both of plicae circulares and villi. Hold the wall of the intestine to the light and note that whilst solitary lymph nodules are present there are no aggregated lymph nodules. Structure of the Vermiform Process.—The serous coat is complete, and the subjacent exte7-nal longitudmal layer of the muscular coat forms a continuous and uniform covering, which at the base of the process becomes divided into the three bands or tsenice coli of the caecum. The internal chxtdarfibres of the muscular coat are likewise spread uniformly and con- tinuously over this part of the intestine. The distinguishing and important structural feature of the vermiform process is found in the submucous coat. This coat is loaded with lymph tissue which is arranged in numerous nodular masses, like solitary lymph nodules, placed so closely together that ad- jacent nodules in many cases become confluent with each other. When the process is cut across and examined under a tow power of the microscope, these lymph follicles, arranged in this manner, present a strong resem- blance to what is seen in a cross-section through an aggregated lymph nodule. Intestinum Crassum (Large Intestine).—Structure of Large Intestine.—Transverse and oblique ridges or folds, correspond- ing to the constrictions which separate the sacculi, are every- where apparent on the inner surface of the large intestine. If the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres be removed or divided at short intervals, and the intestine stretched, both sacculi and constrictions disappear, and the wall of the in- testine becomes uniform. The mucous membrane of the large intestine is absolutely destitute of &////, but solitary lymph twdules are present in considerable numbers. If the mucous surface be examined with a lens, its surface will be seen to be studded over with the round mouths of tubular glands, which are embedded in the mucous membrane (ctyfits of Lieberkiilm). The same glands are present in the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but they are not so large. Dissection.—The coats of the large intestine must be dissected in the same manner as in the case of the small intestine. Coats of the Large Intestine.—In connection with the serous coat, the student has already taken notice of the afipeti-