PELVIS 631 The former can be lifted into the pelvis and the latter can be forced downwards much as the two segments of a folding door are displaced in opposite directions, and thus a passage is made for the exit of the child (Berry Hart). The dissector should also note, as a matter of clinical importance, that, whilst the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina are closely bound together and cannot be separated except by the use of the knife, the posterior wall of the vagina and the anterior wall of the rectum are only loosely united together and can easily be torn apart. Vesica Urinaria (The Bladder).—The female bladder has normally a smaller capacity, and it lies at a somewhat lower level in the pelvis than the male bladder, but its shape when empty and slightly contracted is the same as in the male, i.e. it has the form of a triangular pyramid possessing a superior surface^ two infero-lateral surfaces^ a fundus or base^ and an apex. The superior surface is covered by peritoneum. It is bounded by two lateral borders which separate it from the infero-lateral surfaces, and by a posterior border which separates it from the base. The two lateral borders converge anteriorly and meet at the apex, from which a fibrous cord, the median umbilical ligament (urachus) passes up the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall to the umbilicus. The urachus is the remains of the allantois of the foetus. The lateral borders meet the posterior border of the upper surface at the lateral angles of the bladder where the ureters enter the wall of the viscus. The infero-lateral surfaces and the anterior border which separates them are devoid of peritoneum. They form the posterior wall of the lower part of the cave of Retzius, and are separated from the back of the symphysis and the posterior surHces of the pubic bones by a layer of loose extra-peritoneal fat. The term retro-pubic pad is applied to that portion of the fatty tissue which intervenes between the back of the symphysis pubis, the upper surfaces of the medial pubo-vesical ligaments, and the anterior border of the bladder. To examine the relation of the fundus of the bladder to the uterus and vagina the student must cut through the peritoneum at the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation, and then with the aid of the knife separate the bladder from the front of the neck of the uterus and the upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina. Whilst he is dividing the peritoneum he should notice that the 1—40 a