5 PECTORAL REGION I—1 a can at once put his finger on any given point whatever tlie position of the limb. Reflection of Skin.—Incisions—(i) Along the middle line of the body from the upper margin of the manubrium sterni to the tip of the xiphoid process; (2) from the lower end of this vertical incision transversely round the lateral border of the body; (3) from the upper extremity of the primary incision laterally along the clavicle to the extremity of the acromion process ; (4) from the lower end of the vertical and medial incision {i.e. tip of the xiphoid process) obliquely upwards and laterally, along the anterior fold of the axilla, to the point at which this joins the upper arm. Then down the arm for two and a half or three inches. Two triangular flaps of skin are marked out by these incisions, and these are now to be raised from the panniculus adiposus. But, before this is done, encircle the areola and nipple with the knife and leave the skin covering them undisturbed. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—The fatty layer which is now exposed is termed the panniculus adiposus or superficial fascia. It constitutes the cushion upon which the skin rests, rounds off the angularities of the body, and varies in thickness according to the obesity of the subject. It constitutes the bed in which the cutaneous vessels and nerves ramify before they enter the skin. It is separated from the muscles by a tough, but thin, layer of fibrous tissue, devoid of fat, which forms another investment for the body; this aponeurotic membrane receives the name of the deep fascia; it can be readily demonstrated by making an incision in the superficial fascia, and raising a small portion of it. The superficial fascia presents here, as elsewhere, the usual characters, but, as a rule, the fat is not so plentiful. As it descends over the clavicle to the upper part of the thorax and summit of the shoulder, it has, in most cases, a faintly ruddy striated appearance. Should this not at first be apparent, the removal of some of the superficial fat will render it visible. This appearance is due to the presence of a number of sparse scattered muscular fasciculi which stream down over the clavicle, to obtain attachment in the panniculus adiposus over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. In the neck they form a thin, cutaneous, fleshy stratum, called the platysma myoides. The superficial fascia in this region is also specialised by the development of the mamma in its substance. It should now be dissected, with the view of exposing the mamma as well as the cutaneous vessels and nerves which make it their bed before entering the skin.