90 THE UPPER EXTREMITY are stretched under it, viz. the long head of the triceps and the teres major. Still, this must be regarded as the weakest part of the joint, and consequently dislocation of the head of the humerus downwards into the axilla through the inferior part of the capsule is an occurrence of considerable frequency. Dissection.—Detach the axillary vessels and brachial nerves from the coracoid process to which they have been tied, and throw them distally. Then proceed to remove the muscles. Divide the conjoined origin of the short head of the biceps brachii and the coraco-brachialis close to the coracoid process, the teres major about its middle, and the long head of the triceps about an inch or two below its origin, and turn them aside. Next deal with the muscles more immediately in relation to the joint, viz. the supra- spinatus, the infraspinatus, the teres minor, and the subscapularis. These must be removed with great care, because their tendons are closely con- nected with the subjacent ligamentous capsule. They are not incorporated with the capsule, however, although at first sight they appear to be so, and thus they can be dissected from it. In the case of the subscapularis a protrusion of the synovial membrane, forming a bursa mucosa, will be found near its upper border, close to the root of the coracoid process. The capsule of the shoulder-joint may now be cleaned, and its attachments defined. The liganiefits in connection tvith the shoulder-joint are:— 1. The capsula articularis. 3. The lig. glenohumerale. 2. The lig. coracohumerale. 4. The labrum glenoidale. Capsula Articularis (Capsule).—The capsule of the shoulder-joint is a dense and strong ligamentous structure, which envelops the articulation on all sides. It is attached to the scapula around the glenoid cavity, but only above is it directly fixed to the bone. Elsewhere it springs from the fibrous ring or the labrum glenoidale, which serves to deepen the articular cavity; indeed, in its lower part it appears to be continuous with the border of the labrum glenoidale. Laterally it is fixed to the lateral part of the anatomical neck of the humerus. The width of the capsule is not uniform throughout. It expands as it passes over the en- closed head of the humerus, and contracts as it reaches its scapular and humeral attachments. The great laxity of the capsule of the shoulder-joint will now be apparent. When the muscles are removed, and air is admitted into the joint, the bony surfaces fall away from each other—the head of the humerus sinking downwards, when the part is held by the scapula, to the extent of an inch. The capsule of the shoulder-joint is not complete upon all aspects. Its continuity is interrupted by two, and sometimes three, apertures. The largest of these is an opening of some size, which is placed upon its medial aspect, near the root