ABDOMINAL CAVITY 493 the two posterior layers of the great omentum. The right extremity of its upper border is in relation to the under surface of the liver and the posterior surface of the gall-bladder, and, in the remainder of its extent, it is attached posteriorly by the transverse meso-colon to the pancreas, and anteriorly it em- braces the lower part of the greater curvature of the stomach, behind the line of attachment of the greater omentum to the lower border of that viscus. The Transverse Meso-colon is a fold of peritoneum which connects the posterior part of the upper border of the trans- verse colon to the front of the head and to the anterior border of the body of the pancreas. It is not so extensive as the transverse colon and is absent to the right of the head of the pancreas where the transverse colon is in direct contact with the second part of the duodenum. The lower layer of this fold has already been removed, but the upper layer and the arteries which lie between the two layers are still in position and will enable the dissector to verify the attachments of the fold, which contains the middle colic artery and its branches, the accompanying veins, lymph vessels, and nerves, and the terminal portions of the upper branches of the right and left colic vessels and their anastomoses with the middle colic vessels. Before removing the ascending colon and the transverse colon the dissector should again examine the longitudinal muscle fibres of the walls of the large intestine. They are arranged in the form of three longitudinal bands {tanice coli). The bands converge together on the medial and posterior aspect of the caecum and fuse into a continuous layer on the vermiform process. At the opposite end of the large gut they converge again on the wall of the rectum, first into two bands and then into a continuous layer, but in the remaining parts of the large intestine the bands are widely separated, one running along the anterior border {tania libera), one along the posterior border {ttstiia mesocolica), whilst the third lies along the medial borders of the ascending and descending portions of the colon, and along the lower border of the transverse colon (tania omentalis). Dissection.—Place two ligatures round the upper part of the ascending colon, immediately below the right colic flexure; divide the intestine between the ligatures and remove the cfccum and ascending colon. Place two liga- tures round the transverse colon to the left of the right colic flexure, and