3^4 ABDOMEN The superficial epigastric takes a vertical course upwards, and, crossing the inguinal ligament, ramifies in the superficial fascia over the lower part of the abdomen. Its branches extend as high as the level of the umbilicus. The small veins which accompany these arteries open into the large saphenous vein. Muscles of the Abdominal Wall.—The abdominal wall is formed anteriorly and laterally by five pq.irs of muscles, and by the aponeuroses which constitute their tendons. Anteriorly are the two recti muscles and the two pyramidales muscles. 'Fhe recti are placed parallel to the middle line, and extend in a vertical direction from the pubic bones to the lower margin of the thorax. On each side three fleshy and apon- eurotic strata are met with. From the surface towards the abdominal cavity they are-—(i) the external oblique muscle; (2) the internal oblique muscle ; (3) the transversus abdominis muscle. The direction taken by the muscular fibres which compose each of these layers is different. The external oblique corresponds in this respect with the external inter- costal muscles; the fibres proceed obliquely downwards and forwards. Again, the internal oblique resembles the internal intercostal muscles in the direction of its fibres; they are directed upwards and forwards, and thus the fibres of the two oblique muscles cross each other like the limbs of the letter X. Lastly, the fibres composing the transversus abdominis muscle pursue a horizontal or transverse course. This difference of direction in the fibres which compose these three strata is a source of strength to the fleshy part of the abdominal wall, which, consequently, offers a strong barrier to the protrusion of any of the abdominal contents. The two oblique muscles and the transversus are prolonged to the middle line in the form of aponeuroses. The union of these with the corresponding aponeuroses of the opposite side forms the linea alba—a strong band which extends, in the median line, from the symphysis pubis to the xiphoid process. Dissection.—Remove the superficial fascia from the front of the abdomen. This will expose the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. Towards the thorax this aponeurosis is very thin, and is liable to injury, unless the dissection be performed with care. Proceed cautiously also at the lower part of the abdomen, above the medial end of the inguinal ligament. Here the aponeurosis is pierced in the male by the spermatic cord. The lips of the oiiening thus formed are prolonged downwards upon the cord in the