ABDOMINAL CAVITY 503 lower and medial part of the gastric concavity of that organ (Fig. 197, p. 512). Dissection.—To display the posterior relations of the body and neck of the pancreas raise the tail from the spleen then, working from left to right, carefully separate the body and the neck from the structures which lie behind them. The posterior surface of the body of the pancreas lies in front of the middle portion of the left kidney; in front of the hilus of the kidney and the structures which pass through it; in front of the lower part of the left suprarenal gland; in front of the left crus of the diaphragm ; and it joins the left and anterior end of the neck in front of the left border of the aorta. The splenic vein runs behind its upper border, between it and the kidney and the left suprarenal gland, to the back of the neck, where it joins with the superior mesenteric vein to form the commencement of the portal vein. The inferior mesenteric vein passes behind the right end of the posterior surface to join the splenic vein, and the left internal spermatic vein also ascends behind it to join the left renal vein which issues from the hilus of the kidney and passes to the right to join the inferior vena cava behind the head of the pancreas. Ducts of the Pancreas.—The ducts of the pancreas are, as a rule, two in number—a main duct and an accessory duct. Both run within the gland substance. The main paticreatic duct of Wirsimg begins at the tail of the gland by the union of the small ducts issuing from the lobules in this region, and it proceeds transversely towards the right. It gains considerably in size as it traverses the organ from its being joined by the small ducts which come from the various groups of lobules. Reaching the neck of the gland it bends downwards into the substance of the head. If the gland is divided horizontally, little difficulty will be experienced in discovering the main duct. The extreme whiteness of its walls is a help to the student in this dissection. Close to the duodenum the pancreatic duct comes in contact with the common bile-duct, and, in company, both pierce the coats of the descending part of the duodenum upon its posterior and medial aspect, and terminate in its wall in a dilatation, the ampulla of Vater, which opens into the cavity of the duodenum at the apex of a papilla, the papilla duodeni. The accessory duct of Santorini is small, and arises in the lower part of the head of the gland. It usually has an