ABDOMINAL CAVITY SOI and to some extent also upon the aorta, whilst its anterior surface is crossed by the transverse colon. As a rule its margins tend to overflow the duodenal boundary: in other words, its marginal lobules show a tendency to wander over the anterior surface of the second and third parts of the duodenum so as to overlap the gut in the vicinity of its con- cavity. Certain other relations may be noticed in connec- tion with the head of the pancreas, viz. : (i) the common bile-duct passes down behind it in close relation to the second part of the duodenum; (2) the pyloric part of the stomach lies in front of it, above the transverse colon ; (3) its lower part, the processus uncinatus, is prolonged to the left, along the upper border of the third part of the duodenum, behind the superior mesenteric vessels, and then upwards behind the neck; (4) the vena portae is formed in front of the upturned part of the processus uncinatus and behind the neck. The 7ieck of the pancreas (Symington) is a narrow, constricted portion of gland-substance which springs from the anterior aspect of the head, nearer its upper than its lower margin. It constitutes the link of connection between the head and the body of the pancreas, and as it proceeds to the left and forwards, it lies in front of the commencement of the vena portae and of the termination of the superior mesenteric vein. These vessels intervene between the neck and the front surface of the upper part of the processus uncinatus. The anterior part of the anterior surface of the neck is covered by the layer of peritoneum which forms the posterior wall of the omental bursa. It is usually somewhat depressed by the pyloric end of the stomach, which rests upon it, and the posterior part is separated from the first part of the duodenum by the gastro-duodenal artery. The body of the pancreas extends from the anterior and left extremity of the neck backwards and to the left, across the lower part of the left suprarenal body, and the front of the left kidney to the short tail^ which lies in relation with the spleen. It presents anterior^ inferior^ and posterior swfaces which are separated from each other by superior, anterior, and inferior borders. The anterior surface looks upwards and forwards, and is covered by the peritoneum of the posterior wall of the omental bursa. This surface of the pancreas, in the greater part of its extent, supports the postero-inferior surface of the stomach, and is hollowed for its reception.