ABDOMINAL CAVITY 471 part of the gullet is very short, probably never more than one inch in length. It lies in the upper and posterior part of the epigastric region behind a groove in the posterior aspect of the left lobe of the liver and in front of the left crus of the diaphragm. Its right border passes uniformly and gradually into the lesser curvature of the stomach without the formation of an angle, but a very definite angle is formed between the left border and the fundus. Relations between Thoracic and Abdominal Organs.—At this stage it is useful to consider the relations which exist between the abdominal and thoracic organs which lie upon the different aspects of the diaphragm. It has been noted that the right lobe of the liver occupies the right vault of the diaphragm, whilst the left lobe of the liver, the fundus of the stomach, and the spleen occupy the left vault. The base of the right lung is in relation to the right lobe of the liver. The pericardium, in by far the greater part of its extent, lies above the left lobe of the liver, which therefore intervenes between it and the stomach; only a limited portion of the apex of the heart extends over the region of the stomach. The base of the left lung lies over the left lobe of the liver, the fundus of the stomach, and the spleen. Intestinum Tenue (Small Intestine).—The small intestine is that part of the alimentary canal which succeeds the stomach. It begins in the epigastric region at the pylorus, and ends in the lower part of the right iliac region by joining the great intestine. Its average length is somewhere about twenty- three feet, and as it is traced towards its termination it will be seen to diminish slightly in calibre. It is divided into three portions, viz.;— 1. The duodenum. 2. The jejunum. 3. The ileum. The duodenum is the name which is given to the first part of the small intestine. It is about ten inches long, and extends from the pylorus to the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. As it lies deeply in the greater part of its extent, and as further dissection is necessary to display its relations, it would not be advantageous to consider it at present. The jejunum and ileum constitute the coils of the small intestine, and are more or less completely covered by the