INFERIOR EXTREMITY 286 narrow tendon, within the capsule of the knee-joint, from the front of the popliteal groove on the lateral surface of the lateral condyle of the femur. The fleshy fibres are directed medially and distally, and spread out to obtain insertion into the posterior surface of the tibia above the linea poplitea, and also into the aponeurosis which covers the muscle. The nerve to the popliteus has already been seen to arise from the tibial nerve. It can now be seen hooking round the distal margin of the muscle to reach its anterior surface. M. Flexor Hallucis Longus.—The flexor hallucis longus is a powerful muscle which arises from the posterior surface of the fibula, distal to the origin of the soleus, from the posterior peroneal septum, and from the surface of the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posterior. Its tendon occupies a deep groove on the posterior border of the talus, and turns forwards under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum to gain the sole of the foot. The flexor hallucis longus is supplied by the tibial nerve. M. Flexor Digitorum Longus.—The flexor digitorum longus arises from the posterior surface of the body of the tibia, distal to the popliteus, and medial to the vertical ridge which descends from the linea poplitea. It also derives fibres from the surface of the aponeurosis which covers the tibialis posterior. After crossing the lower part of the tibialis posterior, its tendon grooves the back of the medial malleolus on the lateral side of the tendon of that muscle. It is continued under cover of the ligament laciniatum into the sole of the foot. The flexor digitorum longus is supplied by the tibial tterve. M. Tibialis Posterior (O.T. Tibialis Posticus). — This muscle takes origin from the posterior surface of the inter- osseous membrane, from the posterior part of the medial surface of the body of the fibula, from the posterior surface of the body of the tibia on the lateral side of the flexor digitorum longus, and from the aponeurosis which covers it. In Fig. 95, p. 262, the compartment which it occupies is shown in a diagrammatic manner, and the surfaces from which it takes origin are indicated. Towards the distal part of the leg the tibialis posterior inclines medially, under cover of the flexor digitorum longus, and its strong flattened tendon grooves the back of the medial malleolus to the medial side of the tendon of that muscle. Proceed- ing under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum, its tendon is