ABDOMINAL CAVITY 431 region and a right and left hypocho7idriac regioti; the umbilical zone into a central umbilical region and a right and left lumbar regiofi ; and the hypogastric zone into a central hypogastric region and a right and left iliac region. Contents of Abdomen Proper.—Within the abdominal cavity we find the following structures ( Stomach. 1. Abdominal part of the alimentary canal.Small intestine. [Large intestine. 2. Glands situated outside the"! walls of the alimentary canal [Liver with its gall-bladder or reservoir, and pouring their secretions j Pancreas, into it. j 3. The spleen. 4. The two kidneys, the ureters, and the two suprarenal bodies. 5. Lymph glands, lymph vessels, the cisterna chyli, and the commence- ment of the thoracic duct. 6. The abdominal aorta, with its various visceral and parietal branches. 7. The inferior vena cava and its tributaries, and the commencements of the venae azygos and hemiazygos. 8. The vena portae and its tributaries. 9. The lumbar plexuses of nerves. 10. The abdominal portions of the sympathetic nervous system. 11. The peritoneal membrane which lines the cavity and invests the viscera. On opening the abdominal cavity, a very partial view of the contained viscera is obtained, so long as they are left undisturbed. On the right side of the costal zone the sharp margin of the liver may be observed, projecting slightly below the ribs, whilst opposite the ninth costal cartilage the fundus of the gall-bladder is seen peeping out from under cover of the liver, and projecting slightly beyond its anterior border. In the same zone, to the left of the liver, a portion of the stomach is visible, whilst extending downwards from the greater curvature or anterior border of this viscus is a broad apron- like fold of peritoneal membrane, called the great oinetitwn. This usually contains a quantity of fat in its meshes, and is spread out like an apron, so as to hide from view the viscera which occupy the two lower zones. Sometimes, how- ever, the great omentum is narrow and short; or it may be turned more or less completely upwards or to the side. In either case some of the coils of the small intestine will be seen, and also, in all probability, those parts of the great intestine which occupy the right and left iliac fossae. The part lying in the right iliac fossa is called the caecian, whilst the part situated in the left iliac fossa is the iliac colon. It