PELVIS 637 behind it is convex, the convexity of the posterior surface, however, being much more marked, especially in its upper part, than that of the anterior surface. Each lateral border is connected to the corresponding broad ligament, and im- mediately below the entrance of the uterine tube it is joined, in front, by the round liga7ne?it, and behind, by the ligamefit of the ovary. Inferiorly, the body of the uterus is marked off from the cervix by a slight constriction, which, although very apparent in the infant, becomes less distinct as puberty approaches, and usually disappears altogether after parturition. This constriction is called the isthmus. Cervix Uteri (Neck or Cervix).—The cervix is about an inch in length (25 mm.); it is narrower than the body and more cylindrical in form. It projects into the upper end of the vagina, the walls of which are attached around it. To obtain a satisfactory view of the relation of the uterus to the vagina, both organs should now be split sagittally, care being taken to avoid injuring the rectum. When this has been done the posterior wall of the vagina will be found to ascend to a higher level on the cervix than the shorter anterior wall (Figs. 244, 247). On the lower extremity of the cervix, which rests against the posterior vaginal wall, there is an orifice, the orificiuni externum titeri (O.T. os uteri externu?n). This opening, in nulliparae, is always a small transverse slit with rounded anterior and posterior lips, but in women who have borne children it is usually larger, and its margins are more irregular in outline. The anterior lip is the shorter, and it is placed at a lower level in the vagina. This difference in the level and in the length of the two lips is due to the fact that the uterus passes obliquely through the vaginal wall. The part of the cervix which projects into the vagina is the portio vaginalis; the part above is termed the portio supravaginalis. Cavum Uteri.—The cavity of the uterus is separable into two parts, the cavity of the body and the cavity of the cervix. The cavity of the body is a mere cleft, triangular in outline, which lies between the anterior and posterior walls. The base of the triangle is above, and at each of its lateral angles a uterine tube opens into the cavity. The apex is below, where the cavity of the body joins the cavity of the cervix at a constricted aperture of communication called the 07ificium i7iternu77i uteri (O.T. os uteri i7iter7ium).