THE UPPER EXTREMITY 28 detached from the superior border of the clavicle and the sternal part of the muscle must be pulled towards the medial plane. Articulatio Sternoclavicularis.—The sterno-clavicular joint is a diarthrodial joint formed by the sternal end of the clavicle, the lateral part of the superior border of the manubrium sterni, and the superior surface of the sternal end of the cartilage of the first rib. It helps to increase the range of the forward, backward, and upward movements of the arm. The clavicle is attached to the sternum and the first rib by a strong fibrous capsule. Within the capsule is an articular meniscus which separates the joint cavity into two parts. It is attached to the superior border of the sternal end of the clavicle, to the superior surface of the first rib, and to the anterior and posterior parts of the capsule. On the lateral aspect of the capsule there is a strong accessory ligament, the costo-clavicular ligament, which lies behind the origin of the subclavius muscle and passes upwards, back- wards, and laterally from the first rib to the costal tubercle on the lower surface of the clavicle. In the capsule itself there are three thickened bands, an anterior, a posterior, and a superior, and as some of the fibres of the latter pass from one clavicle to the other, it is called the interclavicular ligament. • Dissection.—Pull the sternal head of the sterno-cleidomastoid muscle towards the medial plane. Cut through the anterior part of the capsule of the joint close to the sternum. Pass the knife behind the capsule, avoid- ing the anterior jugular vein which runs laterally behind the upper border of the joint, and detach the fibres of origin of the sternb-hyoid muscle which spring from the back of the capsule. Cut through the posterior ligament and pull the clavicle laterally. The meniscus is now e.xposed. Detach it from the first rib, then carry the knife laterally below the clavicle and cut through the lower part of the capsule and the costo-clavicular ligament. The clavicle can now be displaced sufficiently upwards and laterally to bring the whole of the brachial plexus into view. Before studying the plexus, the dissector should note that behind the sterno- clavicular joint there are the lower fibres of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyreoid muscles which intervene on the right side between the capsule of the joint and the bifurcation of the innominate artery into its right common carotid and subclavian branches, and on the left side between the joint and the left common carotid artery. Plexus Brachialis (Brachial Plexus). — This important plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the four lower cervical nerves and the greater part of the large anterior branch of the first thoracic nerve. Above, the plexus is further reinforced by a small twig of communication which passes from the fourth to the fifth cervical nerve, whilst below.