ABDOMEN 348 lateral side of the tuber ischiadicum. Having secured these vessels and nerves, clean the distal margin of the glutasus maximus, and then proceed to dissect the ischio-rectal fossa. If the subject is obese, a considerable quantity of fat may be removed at once without endangering the inferior heemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. Take the surface of the glutaeus maximus and the margin of the external sphincter as guides, and transfix the fat with the knife in this plane. The adipose tissue superficial to this plane may be removed en masse with safety. The hcetriorrhoidal vessels and nerve may be found by dissecting cautiously in the fat and carrying the knife in an oblique direction, from behind forwards and from the lateral to the medial wall of the space. The perineal branch from the fourth sacral nerve appears by the side of the coccyx. Roof of the Space.—When the contents of the space are secured, continue to remove the fat from the fossa until its walls are fully displayed. On passing the finger upwards, its passage into the pelvis is prevented by the junction of the anal fascia with the parietal or obturator layer of the pelvic fascia (Fig. 130, p. 346). Further, if the anal fascia be removed, its entrance into the pelvis is still resisted by the levator ani muscle and also by the visceral layer of pelvic fascia, which at this level passes medially on the superior surface of the levator ani. Internal Pudendal Vessels (O.T. Internal Pudic) and Pudendal Nerve (O.T. Pudic).—The dissector should now pass his finger upwards and downwards, over the surface of the parietal or obturator layer of the pelvic fascia which covers the obturator internus muscle and forms the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. About an inch and a half above the inferior border of the ischial tuberosity he will feel, very distinctly, the pudendal vessels and nerve as they pass forwards to gain the urethral triangle. In this position they are enclosed in a tube or sheath formed by the parietal pelvic fascia. This fascial tunnel is called Alcock’s canal. The student must for the present be satisfied with palpating these structures. To expose them would necessitate the division of the parietal part of the pelvic fascia, and this should be kept entire until the pelvic fascia can be studied as a whole. Arterise Hsemorrhoidales Inferiores.—The inferior htemor- rhoidal arteries, usually two or three in number, are branches of the internal pudendal. They pierce the medial wall of Alcock’s canal, and pass medially through the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa to supply the anal canal and the muscles in connection with it, as well as the skin around the anus.