462 ABDOMEN ■ ■ anastomosing with the right gastric branch. of the hepatic artery. The branches of the left gastric artery are :— 1. Qisophageal. 2. Gastric. Eami CEsophagei.—^Two or three oesophageal branches may arise separately, or by a common trunk, from the left gastric artery at the point where it reaches the stomach. They pass upwards, through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, upon the posterior aspect of the gullet, and anastomose with the oesophageal branches of the thoracic aorta. The gastric branches take origin from the trunk, as it runs along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and are distributed to both surfaces of this viscus. Vena Coronaria Ventriculi (Coronary Vein of the Stomach). —This vein accompanies the left gastric artery along the small curvature of the stomach and behind the omental bursa to the coeliac artery, then, continuing to the right, it crosses in front of the aorta and joins the portal vein at the lower border of the epiploic foramen (Winslow). Arteria Hepatica.—The hepatic artery, intermediate in size between the left gastric and splenic, at first takes a trans- verse course, to the right, along the upper border of the pan- creas. At the pylorus it changes its direction, and, turning forwards, below the epiploic foramen (Winslow), in the right pancreatico-gastric fold, it ascends between the two layers of the lesser omentum. Near the porta hepatis it ends by dividing into right and left hepatic arteries. The hepatic artery is accompanied by numerous large nerve twigs derived from the coeliac plexus, and, as it passes upwards to the liver, it is in close relationship with the common bile duct and the portal vein. The duct lies upon the right side of the artery, and the vein lies behind both. (Fig. 170, p. 449, and Fig. 172, p. 453.) The following are the branches of the hepatic artery:— 1. Right gastric. „ , , , , rSuperior pancreatico-duodenal. 2. Gastro-duodenal. | Rj^ht gastro-epiploic. 3. H^pa.ic.{S“- ■! The Arteria Gastrica Dextra is a small artery which springs