THE LEG 2 7 I adjacent sides of the second, third, fourth, and fifth toes. From the most lateral interosseous artery a twig is also given to the lateral side of the little toe. First Dorsal Metatarsal Artery (O.T. First Dorsal Interos- seous).—This small vessel takes origin from the dorsalis pedis, at the point where it turns plantarwards to reach the plantar region of the fqpt. It continues anteriorly, upon the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and divides into dorsal digital branches for the medial side of the great toe and the adjacent sides of the great toe and second toe.^ Perforating Branch of Peroneal Artery (O.T. Anterior Peroneal Artery).—This branch of the peroneal artery reaches the anterior region of the leg by piercing the interosseous membrane, about one and a half or two inches proximal to the lateral malleolus, and it descends upon the lower part of the fibula under cover of the peronaeus tertius. It is distributed on the lateral side of the tarsus, where it anastomoses with the lateral malleolar and the lateral tarsal arteries. M. Extensor Digitorum Brevis.—The extensor digitorum brevis may now be examined. It arises from the anterior part of the calcaneus, and also from the ligamentum cruciatum. It splits into four fleshy bellies, which extend forwards and medially, on the dorsum of the foot, and end in four slender tendons for the four medial toes. The most medial tendon crosses the dorsalis pedis artery, near its termination, and is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe; the remaining three tendons join the long extensor tendons which go to the second, third, and fourth toes. The extensor digitorum brevis is supplied by the lateral branch of the deep pero7ieal nerve. Nervus Peronseus Profundus (O.T. Anterior Tibial).—The deep peroneal nerve is one of the terminal branches of the common peroneal. It arises on the lateral side of the neck of the fibula, and, piercing the proximal part of the extensor digitorum longus obliquely, joins the anterior tibial vessels a short distance distal to the lateral condyle of the tibia, and accompanies them during the remainder of its course. In the first instance it is placed lateral and next anterior to them, but near the ankle-joint it again lies on their lateral ' For the branches from the dorsalis pedis in tlie plantar region see p. 304.