138 THE UPPER EXTREMITY pollicis longus, and accompanies it beneath the dorsal carpal ligament. It may be traced on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to the base of the proximal phalanx, into which it is inserted. This muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. M. Extensor Pollicis Longus (O.T. Extensor Secundi Inter- nodii Pollicis).—-The extensor pollicis longus takes origin from the lateral part of the dorsal surface of the body of the ulna in its middle third, and also from the interosseous membrane. It, to some extent, overlaps the preceding muscle, and it ends in a tendon which passes under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament, where it occupies a deep narrow groove on the dorsum of the distal end of the radius. On the carpus it takes an oblique course, and, crossing the tendons of the two radial extensors and the radial artery, reaches the thumb. It is inserted into the base of the distal phalanx of that digit. The extensor pollicis longus is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. When the thumb is powerfully extended in the living person the tendons of its three last-mentioned muscles become prominent on the lateral aspect of the wrist. The oblique course of the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus is rendered evident, and a distinct depression between it and the other two tendons is seen. M. Extensor Indicis Proprius (O.T. Extensor Indicis).— The extensor indicis proprius arises below the preceding muscle from a limited area' on the dorsal surface of the ulna and from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon accom- panies those of the extensor communis under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament, and will afterwards be traced to its insertion on the index finger. This muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. Arteria Interossea Dorsalis (O.T. Posterior Interosseous Artery). — This vessel arises in the volar part of the forearm, from the common interosseous branch of the ulnar artery. It at once proceeds dorsally between the two bones of the forearm, in the interval between the proxi- mal border of the interosseous membrane and the oblique cord. In the present dissection it makes its appearance between the contiguous borders of the supinator and the abductor pollicis longus, and then it extends distally between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the forearm. It gives branches to these, and by the time it has reached the