636 ABDOMEN bladder may extend beyond the lateral border of the vagina, and in such cases the relation of the ureter to the vagina is much less intimate. Uterus. — The uterus is the organ in which the im- pregnated ovum is retained until the fetus is fully developed. It lies in the middle part of the pelvis, resting upon the posterior part of the upper surface of the bladder, and lying beneath coils of small intestine. It is of modified piriform shape, being flattened from before backwards. It measures about three inches in length (75 mm.), and its long axis lies in the axis of the inlet of the pelvis, and almost at right angles with the long axis of the vagina (Fig. 244). Its breadth^ at the Lig. of ovary Mesometriuin Anterior Body of Fundus wall of uterus . 1 cavity Ampulla of uterine tul>e Appendices vesiculosi Morgagni ^ Meso- Uterine tube vagina Epoophoron . Lat. border of broad lig/ Corpus luteum Ovary Lig. of ovary / Lower border of broad lig. Cervix- S us pen. ] of ovar Infundibu. Meso-salpinx ^lesovarium Os uteri externum. Fig. 251.—The Uterus, the Uterine Tubes, the Ovaries, the Broad Ligaments, and the upper part of the Vagina seen from behind. The posterior wall of the uterine cavity has been removed, and the left Uterine Tube and the upper part of the Vagina have been opened. broadest part, is about two inches, and its greatest thickness one inch. Its broad, upper end is directed upwards and forwards, and is continuous at each side with an oviduct or uterine tube. Its narrower, lower end is directed down- wards and backwards, and passes through the upper part of the vaginal wall into the cavity of the vagina. It is customary to describe the uterus as consisting of three parts, viz. a fundus, a body, and a cervix. The fundus (fundus uteri) is that portion of the rounded upper end which lies above a line drawn transversely across the organ between the points where the uterine tubes enter. It is completely covered by peritoneum. Corpus Uteri (Body of the Uterus) diminishes m breadth as it proceeds downwards to the neck. In front and 1,