ABDOMEN 402 carried distally into the thigh behind the inguinal ligament, to form the anterior part of the femoral sheath {vide p. 182); (3) medial to the femoral vessels, where it is attached to the ilio-pectineal line or pecten of the superior ramus of the pubis behind the falx inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon), with which it is partially blended. Annulus Inguinalis Abdominalis (Abdominal Inguinal Ring). —It has been noted that the transversalis fascia is pierced by the spermatic cord. The opening through which it passes is called the abdoviinal inguinal ring (O.T. internal abdominal ring). This opening can only be defined from the front by an artificial dissection—viz. by dividing the infundibuliform fascia around the cord and pushing it upwards with the handle of the knife. The ring thus defined lies about half an inch above the inguinal ligament, at a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Through the opening the dissector can see the extra-peritoneal fat upon which the transversalis fascia rests, and, just medial to the opening, he will notice the inferior epigastric artery, pursuing its oblique course upwards and medially, and shining through the fascia. If the handle of the knife be now introduced into the ring and carried laterally between the fascia and extra-peritoneal fat, the attachments of the fascia to the inguinal ligament and to the iliac crest can be very clearly shown. Canalis Inguinalis (Inguinal Canal).—The dissector has observed that the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female pierce the abdominal wall above the inguinal ligament. The passage which is formed for their transmission receives the name of the mguinal canal. Now, as this canal is a source of weakness to the abdominal wall, and as it is in connection with it that inguinal hernia occuns, the student will understand how necessary it is that he should examine it carefully from all points of view. The inguinal canal is a narrow channel of about one inch and a half in length. It begins at the abdominal inguinal ring, which may be spoken of as its inlet, and ends at the- subcutaneous inguinal ring, which constitutes its outlet. It is, consequently, very oblique, having a direction almost directly mcdialward.s, with a slight inclination downwards and for- wards. So much for its length and direction ; its floor, its anterior wall, and its posterior wall have still to be examined.