ABDOMEN 6i8 forwards, the symphysis and the promontory are approximated, and, in consequence, the tension of the sacro-tubercus and sacro-spinous ligaments is increased. Symphysis Ossium Pubis (O.T. Symphysis Pubis).—This is an example of a synchondrosis. In addition to the interven- ing disc of fibro-cartilage which connects the cartilage-covered opposing surfaces of the two pubic bones, four ligaments are present, viz. :— I. Anterior pubic. 2. Posterior pubic. 3. Superior pubic. 4. Arcuate. Ligament um Pubicum Anterius.—The anterior pubic ligament is strongly marked, and consists of two layers of fibres—a superficial and a deep. The superficial fibres are oblique, and cross each other like the limbs of the letter X, mingling with the decussating fibres of the superior crura of the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The deep fibres are transverse, ' and extend across from one bone to the other. Ligamentum Pubicum Posterius.—The posterior pubic liga- ment consists of a very few transverse fibres on the posterior aspect of the joint. Ligamentum Pubicum Superius.—The superior pubic ligament^ like the preceding, is weak. It is placed upon the upper aspect of the symphysis, and stretches between the crests of I the two pubic bones. Ligamentum Arcuatum Pubis (O.T. Sub-pubic Ligameni).— The arcuate pubic ligament is situated on the lower aspect of the joint, rounds off the apex of the pubic arch. It is a strong band, somewhat triangular in shape, which is attached on each side to the inferior ramus of the pubic bone, and above, to the fibro-cartilaginous disc. Between the crescentic lower margin of this ligament and the upper border of the uro-genital diaphragm there is an oval aperture through which the dorsal vein of the penis passes backwards. Dissection.—The saw should now be used, and a portion sliced off from the front of the joint. The intervening plate of fibro-cartilage can in this way be studied. It will be seen to be thicker and denser in front than behind. As a general rule, a small synovial cavity will be found towards its back part, and nearer its upper than its lower end. Membrana Obturatoria (O.T. Thyroid Membrane),—The obturator membrane stretches across the obturator foramen. It is attached to the circumference of the foramen, except at its upper part, where it bridges across the groove on the under surface of the superior ramus of the pubic bone, and