65 FRONT OF THE ARM to the subcutaneous surface on the back of the olecranon. In cases of suspected fracture, therefore, this border affords valuable information. The styloid process of the ulna may be detected, immediately above the wrist, and it should be observed that this does not extend so far distally as the corresponding process of the radius. The rounded distal end of the ulna makes a marked projection on the medial and dorsal aspect of the limb immediately proximal to the wrist- joint, and lying in the groove between it and the styloid process the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris may be felt. Reflection of Skin.—The skin should be removed from the limb as far down as the radio-carpal joint. It is necessary to do this in order that a connected view may be obtained of the cutaneous nerves and the superficial veins. But at the same time the skin should not be cast aside, as it forms a most efficient protective wrapping for the part even after it has been detached. Make one long incision along the middle of the anterior aspect of the arm and the volar surface of the forearm down to the radiocarpal articulation. A second incision carried transversely round the distal end of the forearm, immediately above the radio-carpal joint, will enable the dissector to reflect the skin in two large flaps, medially and laterally. In the fatty superficial fascia which is then exposed, the superficial structures may be traced. It is well to begin with the nerves, as these are not so apparent and, therefore, more liable to injury than the veins. But the dissection of the veins should be carried on concurrently with that of the nerves. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—These are very numerous, and are derived from several sources. In addition to the two medial cutaneous nerves, which spring from the brachial plexus, there are the terminal cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, three branches derived from the radial nerve and one — the intercostobrachial nerve—form the second thoracic nerve. These seven nerves may be classified into a medial and a lateral group as follows :— 1. N. cutaneus antibrachii dorsalis upper branch, 2. N. cutaneus antibrachii dorsalis lower branch, 3. N. cutaneus antibrachii lateralis, / Distributed mainly upon the lateral part of the arm and forearm. 1. N. intercostobrachialis, 2. N. cutaneus brachii posterior, 3. N. cutaneus brachii medialis, 4. N. cutaneus antibrachii medialis. The two dorsal cutaneous nerves of the forearm pierce the deep fascia about the middle of the lateral surface of the arm immediately distal to the insertion of the deltoid, and VOL. I—5 {Distributed mainly upon the medial part of the arm and forearm.