229 GLUT^.AL REGION Nervus IscMadicus (O.T. Great Sciatic Nerve).—The sciatic nerve, the largest nerve in the body, comes from the sacral plexus, and enters the glutseal region through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. At first it has the form of a flattened band, but soon it becomes oval or round, as seen in section. Covered by the glutaeus maximus, the sciatic nerve traverses the gluteeal region in the interval between the great trochanter of the femur and the tuber ischiadicum. Proximo- distally it lies on the innominate bone (at the lower margin of the great sciatic notch), the tendon of the obturator internus with the two gemelli muscles, the quadratus femoris, and the adductor magnus. In this region it does not, as a rule, give off any branch, but occasionally the nerves to one or more of the hamstring muscles issue from the main trunk as high as the level of the quadratus femoris. The sciatic nerve frequently escapes from the pelvis in the form of two trunks (the two divisions into which it divides lower down, viz. the tibial and the common peroneal) which enclose between them a portion of the piriformis muscle. Dissection.—The student should flex the knee and raise it on a block in order to relax the sciatic nerve. By pulling this great nerve-trunk laterally, the dissector will expose the nerve to the quadratus femoris lying directly upon the hip bone. Medial to this he will find the pudendal vessels and nerve with the nerve to the obturator internus crossing the spine of the ischium. These structures require to be carefully cleaned. The twig from the nerve to the obturator internus to the gemellus superior is especially liable to injury. The dissection will be improved by scraping off the periosteum from the small area of bone which is in relation to the above-mentioned vessels and nerves. Internal Pudendal Vessels and Pudendal Nerve (O.T. Internal Pudic), and the Nerve to the Obturator Internus.— These structures emerge from the great sciatic foramen, below the piriformis, and are only exposed in the present dis- section for a very short part of their course. They pass out of view by entering the small sciatic foramen. The tierve to the obturator internus is placed most laterally. It lies on the base of the ischial spine, and furnishes a twig to the gemellus superior. The internal pudendal artery’, with a companion vein on each side, crosses the tip of the spine. The pudendal nerve is placed most medially, and lies on the ligamentum sacro-spinosum close to its attachment to the spine. In some cases, however, the pudendal nerve unites in a plexiform manner with the nerve to the obturator internus, so that the whole, or a part, of it may lie lateral to the pudendal vessels. 1—15 6