INFERIOR EXTREMITY I 70 the divided fascia the two layers can be easily distinguished. Insinuate the fingers between the fascia of Scarpa and the pearly-looking tendon of the external oblique muscle. Little resistance will be encountered, as it is only bound down by some lax areolar tissue. The fingers can be readily carried down- wards behind the fascia of Scarpa as far as the inguinal liga- ment. Here it will be found that they can force their way no farther. The passage of the hand into the thigh is barred by the blending of the fascia of Scarpa with the fascia lata, along an oblique line immediately below the inguinal ligament. At this level, therefore, it ceases to exist. The fatty super- ficial layer of Camper, however, as we have said, is continued onwards as the superficial fascia of the thigh. When urine is effused under the superficial fascia of the anterior abdominal wall, the attachment of the fascia of Scarpa to the fascia lata prevents its passage downwards in front of the thigh. Dissection. — In the superficial fascia, blood-vessels, glands, lymph vessels, and nerves are embedded, and these must now be dissected out. First look for the great saphenous vein. It will be found running proxi- mally from the posterior border of the medial condyle of the femur to a point about one and a half inches distal and lateral to the pubic tubercle, where it passes through the fossa ovalis into the femoral triangle to join the femoral vein. It is not desirable to define the opening in the fascia femoris through which it passes until a later stage of the dissection. Several tributaries join the great saphenous vein at this point, and these should be dissected along with the small superficial arteries of the groin which accompany them. The large lymph glands of the groin must also be dissected out from the fatty tissue in which they lie. In doing this care must be taken to preserve as many as possible of the minute thread-like lymph vessels which enter and leave the glands. A small artery and vein should also be traced to each gland. Superficial Inguinal Vessels, — Three minute arteries, termed the superficial epigastric, the superficial external pudendal and the superficial circumflex iliac, pierce the fascia femoris below the inguinal ligament, and radiate from each other for the supply of the lymph glands and integument of the subinguinal region. They all spring from the femoral artery immediately after it enters the thigh. Art. Pudenda externa superficialis.—The superficial external pudendal comes forward through the fascia cribrosa (a thin fascial layer, which is spread over the fossa ovalis), and runs medially, and upwards across the spermatic cord. It supplies the skin of the scrotum and penis.