THE UPPER EX'J'REMITY 118 palmaris brevis muscle; beyond this it is placed immediately behind the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis. As it is followed from the medial to the lateral side of the hand it will be seen to rest upon—(a) the transverse carpal ligament • (d) the short muscles of the little finger ; (c) the flexor tendons and the digital branches of the median nerve. Branches of the Arcus Volaris Superficialis. — Small branches proceed from the superficial volar arch for the supply of the integument and adjoining short muscles of the palm. As the ulnar artery leaves the surface of the transverse carpal ligament it gives off its prqfmida branch; whilst from the convexity of the arch proceed four common volar digital bratiches. The a. volaris profundus is a small vessel, which at once disappears from view by passing backwards in the interval between the abductor digit! quinti and the flexor brevis digit! quinti. It will be traced to its termination in the deep dissection of the palm. The four common volar digital arteries supply both sides of the three medial digits and the medial side of the index finger. The first common volar digital artery runs distally upon the short muscles of the little finger, to which it gives twigs, and then it is carried along the medial side of the digit. The second co7nmon volar digital artery proceeds towards the interval between the roots of the little and ring fingers, and divides into two branches (collateral or proper volar digital arteries), which run along the contiguous sides of these digits. The third cofnmon volar digital artery supplies in like manner the adjacent sides of the ring and middle fingers; whilst the fourth common volar digital artery deals similarly with the contiguous margins of the middle and index fingers. There are certain points in connection with these volar digital arteries, during their course in the palm and along the sides of the fingers, which must be noted. In the palm the undivided trunks lie in the intervals between the flexor tendons and volar to the digital nerves and the lumbrical muscles. Along the sides of the fingers they show a different relation to the nerves : the nerves are now on the volar side and the arteries lie dorsal to them. Upon the terminal phalanx the two collateral branches join to form an arch, from which proceed great numbers of fine twigs, to supply the pulp of the finger, and the bed upon which the nail rests.