INFERIOR EXTREMITY 234 the gluteeus medius and minimus, gives branches to both these muscles. Its terminal branch pierces the anterior fibres of the glutseus minimus, and ends in the tensor fasciae latae. M. Glutseus Minimus.—This muscle arises from the broad area on the dorsum ilii, which is included between the anterior and inferior curved lines (Fig. 84, p. 2 2 2). The muscular fibres pass gradually into an aponeurotic tendon, which covers the superficial surface of the distal part of the muscle. This tendon, as it passes distally, narrows into a flattened band, which is in- serted into a special impression on the anterior aspect of the greater trochanter of the femur (Fig. 75, p. 202). It is in- timately connected, near its insertion, with the capsule of the hip-joint. The glutteus minimus is supplied by the superior glutccal 7terve. Parts under cover of the Glutseus Minimus.—The last step in the dissection of the glutEeal region consists in the reflection of the glutseus minimus muscle. It must be detached from its origin and thrown distally. Three objects are revealed by this dissection—(i) the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint; (2) a bursa which intervenes between the tendon of the muscle and the greater trochanter; (3) the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. The capsular ligavmit will be seen to be only loosely attached to the posterior aspect of the neck of the femur, but very firmly to the acetabular brim. The bin-sa nmcosa should be opened and examined. The 7'eflected tendon of the rectus fe7)wris occupies a groove situated just above the upper margin of the acetabulum. It is partially concealed by some fibres of the capsular ligament, which are prolonged upwards over it. It should be cleaned by repeatedly drawing the point of the knife over it in a direction parallel to its fibres. FOSSA POPLITEA (POPLITEAL SPACE) It is well to dissect the fossa poplitea before the muscles of the posterior region of the thigh are disturbed. In this way the boundaries of the space are maintained in position during the examination of the structures which lie within it. During the dissection of the popliteal fossa the following structures are brought into view:—