581 PELVIS from the anterior surface of the rectum, and still more later- ally the apical part of the seminal vesicle lies on the levator ani at the side of the rectum, while the lower part of the ureter intervenes between the vesicle and the bladder wall. Dissection.—The anterior part of the prostate was divided when the urethra was opened. The dissector should now divide the posterior part in the median plane. The rectum must then be divided in the median plane, and afterwards the sacrum and coccyx must be divided vertically by a saw- cut, to the left of the middle sacral artery. The separation of the two halves of the pelvis from each other must be completed by the division of any remaining soft parts with the knife. All the subsequent stages of dissection and the examination of the relations of the viscera can be quite con- veniently carried out on each side separately. Relations of Blood Vessels and Nerves to the Pelvic Fascia.—The dissector should again note that the blood vessels of the pelvis are placed on the peritoneal surface of the pelvic fascia. It follows, therefore, that all the branches pierce the fascia as they pass to the viscera or as they pass out of the pelvis, and they carry with them prolongations of the fascia which blend with their sheaths. There is one exception to this rule, viz. the obturator artery, which passes over the upper border of the parietal pelvic fascia into the obturator canal. The nerves lie outside the fascia, and, with the exception of the obhirator nerve., those which are leav- ing the pelvis do not require to pierce it, but the branches which are to supply the viscera pass through its substance to gain their terminations, and the obturator nerve pierces it posteriorly to gain the interior of the pelvis. This differ- ence in the nerves and blood vessels can be well studied by looking at the fascia as it passes over the great sciatic foramen. The relation of the pelvic blood vessels to the lining fascia is a matter of some practical importance. The margins of the apertures in the fascia through which the vessels pass are usually strengthened by some encircling fibres ; still, a portion of gut may make its way through one or other of the openings in the fascia and form a hernia. Sciatic hernia consists of a protrusion of the gut through the great sciatic notch. The hernia may be situated either above or below the piriformis. In the former case it escapes through the aperture in the fascia made by the superior glutteal artery, and in the latter through the aperture for the inferior glutseal or the internal pudendal artery. 1—37 a