INFERIOR EXTREMITY 304 dorsum of the foot by joining the corresponding dorsal meta- tarsal artery. The second^ third, and foiirth plantar inetatarsal arteries run forwards in the second, third, and fourth intermetatarsal spaces, pass dorsal to the transverse head of the adductor hallucis, and at the proximal end of the corresponding interdigital cleft each plantar metatarsal artery ends by dividing into two plantar digital arteries. The plantar digital branches of the second plantar metatarsal artery supply the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, those of the third supply the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes, and the plantar digital branches of the third plantar metatarsal artery supply the adjacent sides of the fourth and fifth toes. Immediately before it divides, each plantar metatarsal artery sends dorsally an anterior perforating artery which joins the corresponding dorsal metatarsal artery. Upon the sides of the toes the plantar digital arteries are distributed in exactly the same manner as the proper digital arteries of the fingers (see p. rr8). The plantar digital branch to the lateral border of the little toe springs from the lateral extremity of the plantar arch, crosses the plantar surface of the flexor brevis digiti quinti, and runs forward to the terminal end of the toe. The First Plantar Metatarsal Artery (O.T. Arteria Magna Hallucis) corresponds with the arteria volaris indicis radialis and the arteria princeps pollicis of the hand. It rises from the plantar extremity of the dorsalis pedis, at the point where the latter joins the plantar arch, and runs forwards to the cleft between the great toe and the second toe, where it divides into two plantar digital branches for the supply of the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. Before it divides, it gives off a plantar digital branch to the medial side of the great toe which is joined by the terminal part of the medial plantar artery. Deep Division of the Lateral Plantar Nerve.—This ac- companies the plantar arch in its course medialwards across the sole, and ends in the deep surface of the oblique head of the adductor hallucis. In addition to this muscle it supplies all the interosseous muscles (with the exception of those in the fourth space), the transverse head of the adductor hallucis, and the three lateral lumbrical muscles, The twig to the second lumbrical takes a recurrent course around the