152 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Articulatio Radio-carpea (Wrist-Joint). The radio-carpal or wrist-joint is the joint between the forearm and the hand. The proximal face of the joint is formed by the distal articular surface of the radius and the discus articularis, and the distal surface by the navicular, lunate, and triquetral bones, and the interosseous ligaments which connect them together. The opposed surfaces are retained in apposition by a capsular ligatnent in which at least four thickened bands can be recognised, they are :■— 1. Lig. radiocarpeum volare. I 3. Lig. collaterale radiale. 2. Lig. radiocarpeum dorsale. | 4. Lig. collaterale ulnare. The capsule is attached proximally to the borders of the distal ends of the radius and the ulna, and to the borders of the discus articularis. Distally it is connected with the bones of the proximal row of the carpus, with the exception of the pisiform, and some of its fibres can be traced to the os capitatum. The volar radio-carpal ligament springs from the anterior border of the styloid process of the radius and the adjacent part of the anterior border of the distal end of the radius. Distally it breaks up into flat bands which are attached to the navicular, lunate, and capitate bones. In many cases a volar ulnaj'-carpal ligament is also found. When present it extends from the anterior aspect of the base of the styloid process and the adjacent anterior part of the head of the ulna to the triquetral, pisiform, and capitate bones. The dorsal radio-carpal band springs from the posterior border of the distal end of the radius, and is attached distally to all the bones of the proximal row of the carpus, except the pisiform. Its fibres are often separable into a number of distinct bands. The radial collateral carpal ligament passes from the tip of the styloid process of the radius to the lateral part of the navicular, and the tilnar collateral carpal ligament connects the styloid process of the ulna with the triquetral bone. Articular Surfaces.—Divide the anterior and lateral parts of the capsule by a transverse incision carried across the front of the articulation. The hand can now be bent backwards, so as to expose fully the articular surfaces opposed to each other in this joint. 'rhe carpal surface is composed of the proximal articular