ABDOMEN 442 axillary line. The flattened apex lies to the left, at the level of the left sixth rib in or near to the left lateral plane. The anterior and superior surfaces are smooth and convex. The anterior is attached to the anterior abdominal wall, and the superior to the under surface of the diaphragm, by a fold of peritoneum, the falciform ligament, which separates each surface into a smaller left and a larger right portion, the right and left lobes of the liver. The anterior surface is triangular in outline. It passes gradually, over rounded and indistinct borders, into the superior surface and the base, but it is separated from the inferior surface by a sharp and definite margin. Its left and right portions are in contact with the diaphragm, and the intermediate part is in contact with the anterior wall of the abdomen in the region of the subcostal angle. Its position can be indicated on the surface by three lines, (i) The first commences at the level of the left sixth rib in the left lateral plane, and ends to the' level of the right sixth rib midway between the right lateral plane and the right border of the body. (2) The second commences at the same point as the first and passes obliquely downwards and to the right to the tip of the tenth right costal cartilage. (3) The third connects the right extremities of the first and second. The superior surface is accurately adapted to the lower surface of the diaphragm, which separates it from the lungs and pleurae, and from the heart and pericardium. Immedi- ately below the heart it is slightly concave, but to the right and left of the cardiac concavity it is markedly convex, and more convex on the right than on the left side. Pass the hand backwards over the upper surface of the right lobe and note that in the right lateral plane it rises to the level of the ^ fourth intercostal space, and even to the lower border of the fourth rib. * Pass the hand still further back over the upper surface, ^ and note that at the junction of the superior and posterior surfaces a layer of peritoneum, the upper layer of the coronary ^ j liga?nent, passes from the liver to the diaphragm. Carry the fingers to the right along the coronary ligament round to the . ‘ base where, at the junction of the base with the posterior surface, a triangular fold of peritoneum, the right triangular ligament, will be found, connecting the liver with the diaphragm. Now pass the hand over the upper surface of the i