603 PELVIS systems of veins. This is of practical importance in associa- tion with the production of hsemorrhoids or piles, which are due to a varicose condition of the hgemorrhoidal veins. It has been noted that the portal vein and its tributaries are without valves; consequently, anything which retards the flow of blood through the portal system will react upon the hasmorrhoidal plexus, cause its distension, and predispose to haemorrhoids. Vena Hypogastrica (O.T. Internal Iliac Vein).—This is a trunk which lies behind the hypogastric artery. Its tributaries correspond to the branches of the hypogastric artery, except that the ilio-lumbar vein opens into the common iliac vein. The Lymph Vessels of the Pelvis.—It is only in rare cir- cumstances that the dissector will be able to display any of the pelvic lymphatic vessels, but in favourable subjects he will be able to localise some of the pelvic lymph glands. The main groups of lymph glands of the pelvis are (i) the hypogastric glands-, (2) the sacral glands and (3) the rectal glands. The hypogastric glands are situated on the lateral pelvic wall, near the origins of the branches of the hypogastric artery. They receive lymphatics from the membranous part of the urethra, the lower part of the bladder, the prostate, the upper part of the anal canal, and the lower part of the rectum. Their efferent vessels pass to glands situated round the common iliac artery. The sacral glands lie along the medial sides of the anterior sacral foramina. They receive lymph vessels from the adjacent bones and ligaments, from the rectal glands, and from the prostate. Their efferent vessels end in the common iliac glands. The rectal glands, four or five in number, lie in relation with the superior haemorrhoidal vein and its two main tributaries. They receive lymph from the rectum, and their efferent vessels terminate in the lateral sacral glands. Dissection.—As soon as the examination of the pelvic vessels is com- pleted the viscera should be drawn as far as possible from the lateral wall of the pelvis, any vessels which tend to prevent the movement should be divided, and then the pelvic diaphragm should be examined. It is com- posed of two muscles on each side—viz., the levator ani and the coccygeus. Both the muscles must be cleaned, and whilst this is being done care must be taken to avoid injuring the fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves as they pierce the coccygeus near the coccyx. M. Levator Ani.—This is a strong sheet of muscle fibres.