i68 INFERIOR EXTREMITY prominence of the trochanter major of the femur. Above the trochanteric region, and between it and the crista iliaca, is the regio coxce (hip), and below the trochanteric region is the regio femoris lateralis. At the distal end of the anterior part of the thigh is the regio genu anterior. In the centre of the anterior part of the knee lies the patella or knee-cap, the outline of which can be seen as well as felt. When the limb is extended' the extensor muscles in the anterior part of the thigh are relaxed and the patella is freely movable. As the legxs, fle.xed on the fetnur at the knee the patella passes distally, till it lies in front of the interval between the femur and the tibia, and the facies patellaris of the femur can be felt beneath the skin. From the distal end of the patella the lig. patellre should be followed to the tuberosity of the tibia. At the distal end of the lateral region of the thigh the outline of the lateral condyle of the femur is easily recognised. Directly below it is tl\e lateral condyle of the tibia, and at the distal and posterior part of the latter the head of the fibula. The tendon which can be traced proximally from the capitulum fibulte, on the border line between the lateral and posterior femoral regions, is the tendon of the biceps femoris, and the dense longitudinal band of fascia immediately anterior to the tendon of the biceps is the tractus ilio-tibialis of the fascia lata —a fascial band which is more easily distinguishable in the living than in the dead body. At the distal end of the medial part of the thigh is the outline of the medial condyle of the femur which should be palpated, and immediately distal to it the medial condyle of the tibia is easily recognised beneath the integument. The tendons posterior to the medial condyle of the femur, which also are more easily felt in the living than the dead body, are the tendons of the semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles, and the less easily palpated tendon of the adductor magnus should be distinguished as it descends to the superior border of the medial femoral condyle. The dissector should verify all the above-mentioned points of surface anatomy not only on the dead body but also on the bodies of himself and his friends, and he should e.xamine them repeatedly until he is cpiite familiar with them both by sight and touch.