PELVIS 607 thus arises directly from the sacral plexus, it usually perforates the piriformis muscle on its way out of the pelvis. In addition to the two main bands into which the plexus resolves itself (sciatic and pudendal) various other branches are given off. They are :— 1. Superior glutreal. 2. Inferior gluteal. 3. Posterior cutaneous of the thigh (O.T. small sciatic). 4. Nerve to the obturator internus and superior gemellus. 5. Nerve to the quadratus femoris and inferior gemellus. 6. Perforating cutaneous nerve. 7. Branches to the piriformis muscle. 8. Branches to the pelvic viscera. Nervus Glutseus Superior (Superior Glutseal Nerve).— I he superior glutaeal nerve arises from the posterior aspect of the plexus and contains fibres of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves. It passes, with the superior glutseal artery, above the upper border of the piriformis muscle, and leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen. It is distributed, in the glutaeal region, to the glutseus medius and glutseus minimus, and to the tensor fascise latse muscles. Nervus Glutseus Inferior (Inferior Glutseal Nerve).—This is the special branch of supply to the glutseus maximus. It also springs from the back, of the plexus, and contains fibres of the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. It passes below the piriformis and through the great sciatic foramen into the buttock. Nervus Cutaneus Femoris Posterior (O.T. Small Sciatic).— This nerve arises from the back of the plexus and contains fibres of the second and third sacral nerves. It passes between the piriformis and coccygeus, and leaves the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. The Nerve to the Obturator Internus springs from the anterior aspect of the plexus, and contains fibres of the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. It leaves the pelvis with the pudendal nerve, and, after giving a twig to the superior gemellus in the glutseal region, it reaches the obturator internus by passing through the small sciatic foramen. It sinks into the medial aspect of the muscle. The Nerve to the Quadratus Femoris springs from the anterior aspect of the plexus, receiving fibres from the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first sacral nerves. It accompanies