ABDOMINAL CAVLl'Y 545 vein to form the inferior vena cava. Each common iliac vein is formed by the junction of the external iliac vein and the hypogastric vein. The common iliac vein of each side is joined by the ilio- lumbar vein. The left common iliac vein also receives the middle sacral vein. Arteria Iliaca Externa (External Iliac Artery).—This vessel is the first or abdominal portion of the great arterial trunk which carries blood to the lower limb. It begins opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, at the level of the lumbo-sacral articulation, and extends obliquely downwards and laterally, along the brim of the small pelvis, to the inguinal ligament, behind which it passes into the thigh, and becomes the fetnoral artery. Its course is indicated on the surface by Ihe lower two-thirds of a line drawn from a point a little below and to the left side of the umbilicus to a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The upper third of the line indicates the position of the common iliac artery. The external iliac, like the common iliac artery, is closely covered by peritoneum. The right artery passes behind the terminal part of the ileum, and the left behind the pelvic colon. Towards its termination each external iliac artery is crossed by the deep circumflex iliac vein, and the external spermatic nerve (O.T. genital branch of genito-crural). In the male this part of the artery is also crossed by the ductus deferens and the internal spermatic vessels, and in the female by the round ligament of the uterus. At first the external iliac artery rests upon the medial margin of the psoas magnus muscle, but close to the inguinal ligament it comes to lie directly in front of that muscle. The artery is separated from the muscle, however, by the iliac fascia, to which it is bound down by a condensed part of the extra-peritoneal tissue, which passes over it. The external spermatic nerve lies along the lateral side of the artery, and the companion vein is placed on its medial side; on the right side, however, the vein, as it passes upwards, gradually comes to lie behind the artery. The external iliac gives off two large branches to the abdominal wall, viz.—(i) the inferior epigastric; (2) the deep circumflex iliac. They arise close to the inguinal ligament, and have both been examined (pp. 404, 405). The veins corre- sponding to these arteries open into the external iliac vein. VOL. I—35