577 PELVIS The prostate is very liable to become enlarged as old age approaches. When this happens the most important result is the effect e.xerted on the urethra. If the enlargement is uniform the canal is merely lengthened, but, if excessive growth is localised the enlarged part may impinge upon the urethra and interfere with micturition. When the middle lobe enlarges it projects upwards and forwards, over the orifice of the urethra, and forms a kind of ball valve, which may pre- vent the exit of urine through the internal urethral orifice. It is only in pathological conditions that the so-called middle lobe becomes a distinct and more or less in- dependent part of the organ. During health it is merely marked off from the rest of the prostate by the utricle and by the passage of the ejaculatory ducts through the substance of the gland. Pars Membranacea Urethrae (Membranous Portion of the Urethra).—This is the narrowest and the shortest division of the urethra. It extends from the prostate to the bulb of the penis, curving gently downwards and forwards, behind the lower border of the symphysis pubis, from which it is distant about one inch (25 mm.). Its length is barely three-quarters of an inch, and the concavity of its curve is directed forwards and upwards. Throughout its entire length it is enveloped by the fibres of the sphincter urethrm membranaceae (O.T. compressor urethrae) muscle. Towards its termination the bulbo-urethral glands are placed behind it—one on each side. The membranous part of the urethra has important rela- tions to the uro-genital diaphragm and to the pelvic fascia. As it emerges from the prostate, it pierces the parietal pelvic fascia {i.e. the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm), and the margins of the aperture through which it passes are carried backwards to become continuous with the sheath of the prostate. At its termination it pierces the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm about an inch below the symphysis. It lies therefore in the interval between these two fasciae. The mucous membrane of the membranous part of the urethra is directly surrounded by a thin coat of erectile tissue, and this is embraced by a muscular tunic compo.sed of involuntary fibres arranged circularly. Pars Cavernosa Urethrae (Spongy Portion of the Urethra).— VOL. I—37