ABDOMINAL WALL 385 form of a thin membrane called the external spermatic fascia. In defining this the blade of the knife must not be used. Work entirely with the handle. The thin layer of deep fascia which is spread over the muscular part of the external oblique muscle must also be removed. In doing this it is not necessary to carry the knife in the direction of the fleshy fasciculi. Indeed, the muscle can best be cleaned by carrying the knife at right angles to the general direction of the fibres. In front, the deep fascia will be seen to blend with the aponeurosis of the muscle, along the line of junction between the tendinous and fleshy fibres. The slips of origin of the external oblique muscle from the eight lower ribs must each be care- fully defined. M. Obliquus Abdominis Extemus (Ex- ternal Oblique). — The external oblique muscle arises by eight pointed processes or digitations from the outer surfaces and lower borders of the eight lower ribs (Fig. 142). Of these, the tipper three interdigitate with the digitations of the serratus anterior, and the latissimus dorsi interdigitates with the lower three. From this origin the fibres proceed downwards and forwards with vary- ing degrees of obliquity. The posterior fibres have a nearly vertical direction, and are inserted into the anterior half of the lateral lip of the crest of the ilium. The superior fibres are almost horizontal, and the intermediate fibres are directed obliquely downwards and fonvards, and all end in a strong aponeurosis called the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Superiorly the aponeurosis of the external oblique is very thin, and is carried forwards to be attached to the xiphoid process. It is from this part that the pectoralis major derives fibres of origin. Inferiorly the aponeurosis is folded upon itself to form the inguinal ligament which is attached laterally and superiorly to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and medially and inferiorly to the tubercle of the pubis. Betweeti the upper and lotver attachtnents the aponeurosis lies in front of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba and into the front of the os pubis. In connection with this aponeurosis note that it is broadest VOL. I—25 B Fig. 143.—Crest of the Ilium as seen from above (semi- diagrammatic), with Attachments of Muscles mapped out.