352 ABDOMEN urethra, the bulbo-urethral glands (Cowper’s), the terminal parts of the internal pudendal vessels and some of their branches, and the dorsal nerves of the penis. The blended anterior margins of the inferior fascia of the urogenital dia- phragm (O.T. superficial layer of the triangular ligament), and the superior fascia of the uroge?iital diaphragm (O.T. deep layer of the triangular ligament) form the transverse ligament of the pelvis, and their blended posterior margins form the base of the urogenital diaphragm (triangular ligament). The space between the two layers is spoken of as the deep compartment, or pouch, of the urethral triangle, and the area en- closed between the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm and the fascia of Colics is the superficial pouch. This latter pouch has already been opened, and the superficial vessels and nerves which form part of its contents have been displayed. The root of the penis also lies within the superficial area of the urethral triangle, in relation with the inferior aspect of the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. With the handle of the knife clear away, for a short distance, the loose tissue which surrounds the body of the penis, which will then be seen to consist of two masses; a superior, the corpjis cavernosum penis, and an inferior, the corpus cavernosum urethrce. The corpus cavernosum penis forms the main mass of the anterior two-thirds of the penis. It has the form of a flattened cylinder grooved upon its superior and inferior surfaces. Anteriorly the corpus cavernosum is partially separated into two lateral halves by a perforated septum. Posteriorly, at the apex of the pubic arch, it divides into two lateral portions the crura of the penis. The groove on the superior surface lodges the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and the corpus cavernosum urethrae lies in the deeper groove on the inferior surface. Immedi- ately behind the point where it diverges from the corpus cavernosum penis each crus is slightly dilated, thence, back- Dorsal Dorsal artery vein / Dorsal nerve —Corpus caver- nosum urethrae Urethra Fig. 131.—Transverse section through the body of the Penis.