MEDIAL SIDE OF THE THIGH 213 joint. The latter branch pierces the distal part of the adductor magnus, close to the linea aspera, and will be seen in the fossa poplitea lying posterior to the popliteal artery. M. Gracilis.—This is a long, strap-like muscle, which lies along the medial aspect of the thigh and knee. It springs, by a thin tendon, from the lower half of the body of the pubis, close to the symphysis, and also from the upper half of the pubic arch (Fig. 81, p. 212). It ends in a slender, rounded tendon which inclines anteriorly below the knee, and then ex- pands and is inserted into the proximal part of the medial surface of the tibia, under cover of the tendon of the sartorius, and at a higher level than the insertion of the semitendinosus (Fig. 92, p. 248). A bursa mucosa separates the expanded tendon of the gracilis from the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint, and is prolonged above it, so as to intervene between it and the tendon of the sartorius. The gracilis is supplied by the anterior division of the obturator nerve. M. Adductor Magnus.—This is one of the most power- ful muscles of the thigh. It forms a flat, fleshy mass, which springs from the anterior surface of the entire length of the pubic arch of the corresponding side, and from the distal part of the tuber ischiadicum (Fig. 81, p. 212). The fibres which arise from the pubic arch spread out as they approach the posterior aspect of the femur. The proximal fibres are nearly horizontal in their direction; the more distal descend with increasing degrees of obliquity. They are inserted into the posterior part of the femur, just medial to the glutaeal tuberosity, into the linea aspera, and into a small portion of the proximal part of the medial supracondylar ridge (Fig. 77, p. 207). The fibres which take origin from the ischial tuberosity descend almost vertically and form the thick medial border of the niuscle. In the distal third of the thigh they end in a strong, rounded tendon, which is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the medial condyle of the femur (Fig. 102, p. 279). This tendon is further attached to the femur by the medial inter- muscular septum which stretches between it and the medial supracondylar line. Close to the linea aspera the dissector will notice that fibrous arches are formed in connection with the insertion of the adductor magnus for the passage of the perforating arteries. The opening through which the femoral artery enters the popliteal fossa lies in series with these. It I—14 a