ABDOMEN 474 second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa, crossing in its course the third part of the duodenum, the abdominal aorta, the inferior vena cava, the right ureter, and the right psoas magnus muscle. Its total length is about six inches. Its anterior border, which is attached to the intestine, is necessarily as long as the part of the gut to which it is attached, that is, about twenty-two feet; but this great length is not at first apparent because the mesentery is thrown into folds like a frill (Fig. 182) and the coiled condition of the gut is due to this arrangement. Thus the mesentery is markedly fan-like, and its length, from its root to its intestinal attachment, at its longest part is about six inches after death and when the body is hardened, but it may be considerably longer during life. The two layers of the peritoneum of the mesentery are not in apposition. They are separated by a variable amount of fat and areolar tissue in which lie the superior mesenteric artery and its branches to the jejunum and ileum, the corre- sponding veins, the accompanying nerves, the lymph vessels passing from the gut which are called lacteals, and numerous lymph glands. The jejunum and ileum are generally con- sidered as lying in the free border of the fold. Occasional Peritoneal Fossae.—Before the dissection of the mesentery is commenced the dissector should look for certain peritoneal fossae which are occasionally present. Some of these fossm lie near the terminal part of the duodenum, others near the termination of the ileum, and one is associated with the root of the pelvic meso-colon. The chief fossae in the region of the duodenum are the duodenojejunal, the upper duodenal, the lower duodenal, the para-duodenal, and the retro- duodenal. The duodeno-jejunal or meso-colic fossa lies immediately above the duodeno-jejunal flexure of the small intestine and passes upwards into the root of the transverse meso-colon. The upper and the lower duodenal fossa lie at the left side of the terminal portion of the duodenum, the upper passing upwards towards the upper end and the lower passing downwards towards the lower end. Thu para-duodenal fossa lies a little more to the left. It is a pouch of peritoneum pushed laterally behind the inferior mesenteric vein, and its mouth looks towards the termin.al part of the duodenum. The retro-duodenal fossa passes upwards behind the terminal part of the duodenum. The fossre in the region of the ileo-cwcal junction are the anterior ilco- cacal, the posterior ileo-cacal or ilco-appendicular, and the retro-ccccal or retro-colic. The anterior ileo-aveal fossa lies behind a small fold of peritoneum which crosses the front of the ileo-cmcal junction. Its mouth is directed downwards and to the left. The inferior ileo-civcal fossa also opens towards the left. It is bounded to the right by the emeum, in front by the terminal part of the ileum and the adjacent part its mesentery, behind by the mesentery of the appendix, and below by the plica ileo-cxcalis, a fold