315 ARTICULATIONS of the femur, where it is attached. This band is termed the patellar synovial fold (O.T. ligafnenti/f/i mucosuni). As it approaches the femur it becomes narrow and slender; but, before it fairly rises from the surface of the infra-patellar pad it is broad and triangular, and presents two free margins which extend along the lateral borders of the distal part of the patella, and receive the name of plicae alares {ligamenta alaria). It must be clearly understood that these are not ligaments in the ordinary sense of the word, but merely folds of synovial membrane. Within the joint the dissector is now able to recognise: 1. The two crucial ligaments. 2. The two menisci (O.T. semilunar cartilages). Strattim Synoviale (O.T. Synovial Membrane).—As the knee-joint is the largest joint in the body its synovial mem- brane is more extensive than that of any other joint. It lines the deep surfaces of the ligamentous structures of the lateral and anterior parts of the joint. It also lines the deep surfaces of the medial and lateral portions of the posterior part of the capsule, and from them it is prolonged anteriorly along the sides and round the front of the crucial ligaments. In the anterior part of the joint it is prolonged proximally beyond the articular surface of the distal end of the femur, in the form of a great cul-de-sac, under cover of the tendon of the quadriceps. The proximal extremity of this cul-de-sac usually communicates by an orifice of greater or less width with the suprapatellar bursa. The synovial membrane also invests the menisci and a pouch-like diverticulum is prolonged posteriorly and distally, along the tendon of the popliteus which it partially ensheaths, across the posterior part of the external border ot the lateral meniscus to the posterior aspect of the proximal end of the tibia. This prolongation lies is close relation with the capsule of the tibio-fibular joint, and in some cases a communication is established "between the cavity of the diverticulum and the cavity of the tibio-fibular joint. Dissection.—Divide the patellar synovial fold and remove the infra- patellar pad of fat. The bursa between the ligamentum patellae and the proximal part of the tuberosity of the tibia may now be opened and examined. Next dissect away the intermediate part of the posterior portion of the capsule (oblique popliteal ligament) and trace the median genicular artery, which pierces it, forwards to the crucial ligaments. It will now be seen that the posterior surface of the posterior crucial ligament is not covered by synovial membrane, and that it is connected