6io ABDOMEN tain’ the flexures and prevent the rectum from elongating as it becomes loaded. The circular muscle fibres form a more or less uniform layer internal to the longitudinal fibres, and they are prolonged into the bases of the rectal valves. Muscular Coat of the Anal Canal.—The muscular wall of the anal canal is very thick and powerful. The internal circular layer of muscle-fibres prolonged down from the rectum is greatly thickened to form a muscular cylinder, the internal sphincter., which embraces the whole length of the canal, except the lower half-inch. The longitudinal fibres from the rectum are also prolonged downwards, outside the internal sphincter, and they blend with the fibres of the levator ani, which are inserted into the wall of the canal between the internal and the external sphincters. The external sphincter surrounds the lower part of the canal outside the levator ani. The submucous coat of the rectum and anal canal is composed of lax areolar tissue, which allows the mucous coat to move freely on the muscular coat. It contains vessels and nerves. The Mucous Membrane of the Eectum and Anal Canal is thicker and more movable upon the muscular -tunic than the mucous membrane of the colon, and, in consequence of this mobility, it is thrown into irregular folds or rugte when the gut is empty. In the upper part of the anal canal the mucous membrane is thrown into a series of longitudinal folds, the columnce rectales (Morgagni). A short distance above the anal orifice the columns are connected by a number of irregular semilunar folds called the anal valves. In the con- cavity of each valve is a pocket-like recess, the smus rectalis. The folds are of importance in connection with the condition known as fissured anus, and they indicate the level at which the scaly epithelium of the integument merges into the columnar epithelium of the gut. Plicae Transversales Eecti (O.T. Valves of Houston).— These folds are not always visible, and are usually seen best in a rectum which has been fixed with formalin when in a state of distension. They are three in number in conformity with the inflections of the gut, consequently there are two on the left side and one, the largest, on the right side. Each is formed by an infolding of the mucous, submucous, and jjart of the muscular coat. The positions of the folds are variable ; but the right and largest is usually placed at the level of the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation of peritoneum, whilst