FRONT OF THE ARM 77 carried distally in front of the medial epicondyle of the humerus, in the interval between the brachialis and the pronator teres. It anastomoses in this situation with the anterior ulnar recurrent artery. The posterior branch pierces the medial intermuscular septum and will be seen later on in the posterior compartment of the arm. The N. Cutaneus Brachii Medialis and Nervus Cutaneus Antibrachii Medialis (O.T. Lesser Internal Cutaneous and Internal Cutaneous Nerves).—Very little more requires to be said about these nerves. Their origin within the axilla has already been noted, and they have been traced to their distri- bution from the points where they pierce the investing fascia brachii. It only remains for the dissector to examine them in that part of their course in which they lie under cover of the fascia brachii. It will be observed that they both lie along the medial side of the brachial artery. The medial cutaneous nerve of the arm gives off, as a rule, no branches in this situation, except one or more twigs of communica- tion to the intercosto-brachial nerve. The medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm gives off the branch which pierces the fascia to supply the skin in front of the biceps brachii. Nervus Me^anus et Nervus Ulnaris (Median and Ulnar Nerves).—These large nerve trunks do not furnish any branches in the arm. The median nerve arises in the axilla by two heads from the lateral and medial cords of the brachial plexus. It proceeds distally upon the lateral and superficial aspect of the axillary and brachial arteries, until it approaches the level of the insertion of the coraco- brachialis. Here it lies in front of the brachial artery. Finally, it reaches the medial side of the vessel, and main- tains this position for the rest of its course in the arm. The ulnar ?ierve is the largest branch of the medial cord of the brachial plexus. It descends upon the medial side of the axillary and brachial arteries, and at the insertion of the coraco-brachialis it encounters the superior ulnar collateral artery. Accompanied by this vessel, it leaves the brachial artery, passes backwards through the medial intermuscular septum, and it is continued downwards, upon the posterior aspect of this aponeurotic partition, to the interval between the olecranon and medial epicondyle of the humerus. Dissection.—The muscles should now be thoroughly cleaned, and the musculo-cutaneous nerve and its branches dissected out.