SOLE OF THE FOOT 303 phalangeal ligaments of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and proceeds transversely medially, under cover of the flexor tendons, to find insertion into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe, in common with the oblique head. Its nerve of supply comes from the deep division of the lateral phmtar nerve. Flexor Brevis Digiti Quinti (O.T. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti).—The flexor brevis digiti quinti is a single fleshy slip, which springs from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the sheath of the peronaeus longus tendon. It is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. Its nerve of supply comes from the sttperficial divisio7i of the lateral plantar 7ierve. Dissectio>i.—The oblique head of the adductor hallucis and the flexor hallucis brevis must now be detached from their origins and thrown forwards, in order that the entire length of the plantar, arterial arch, and the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve, may be displayed. In raising the oblique head of the adductor hallucis the branch which is given to it by the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve must be secured and retained. Arcus Plantaris (Plantar Arch).—'bhe plantar arterial arch is the continuation of the lateral plantar artery across the sole of the foot. It runs from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone to the base of the first interosseous space, where it is joined by the terminal plantar portion of the dorsalis pedis artery. The arch is deeply placed ; it rests against the interosseous muscles close to the proximal ends of the metatarsal bones, and it is concealed by the flexor tendons, the lumbrical muscles, and the oblique head of the adductor hallucis. It is accompanied by the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve and by two venae comites. The branches which proceed from the arch are:— 1. Articular. 2. Posterior perforating. 3. Second, third, and fourth plantar metatarsal arteries. 4. Plantar digital artery to the lateral side of the little toe. The articular branches rise from the concavity of the arch, and run posteriorly to supply the tarsal joints. The posterior perforati/ig bra7iches are three in number. They pass dorsally through the posterior ends of the three lateral intermetatarsal spaces and between the heads of the corresponding dorsal interosseous muscles. Each ends on the