429 ABDOMINAL CAVITY part, the pubic, ischial, sacral, and coccygeal bones form very complete bony boundaries for the cavity. Whilst the abdominal cavity, therefore, is very fully pro- tected, posteriorly and laterally, by skeletal parts, the front wall is almost entirely formed by the muscles and apo- neuroses which have been dissected in this region. From this it will be seen that the roof, floor, and the greater part of the abdominal wall are composed of muscular structures, the contraction of which would diminish the capacity of the cavity and subject the contained viscera to compression. Subdivision of the Abdominal Cavity.—In dealing with so large a cavity, and one which contains such a diversity of contents, it is convenient to subdivide it into regions, in order that the precise position of each viscus may be accurately defined. In making the first subdivision, advan- tage is taken of the brim of the true pelvis. That part of the cavity which is situated above this is termed the abdomen proper; whilst the part which lies below it is called the pelvic cavity. These two portions of the general abdominal cavity do not lie the one directly over the other. The long axis of the abdomen proper is very nearly vertical; that of the pelvic cavity is very oblique, and directed backwards and downwards. Indeed, the pelvic cavity presents the appearance of a recess leading backwards and downwards from the lower and posterior part of the abdominal cavity (Fig. 160). The abdomen proper is still further subdivided by means of four arbitrary planes of section. Two of these are supposed to pass through the body in a horizontal direction, and two in a vertical direction. The former are termed the subcostal and the intertuberciilar planes of subdivision, and the position of each is determined as follows :—A horizontal line is drawn around the body at a level corresponding to the most dependent parts of the tenth costal arches. This gives the position of the subcostal plane. A second line is drawn horizontally around the trunk so as to pass, on each side, through the highest point on the iliac crest that is seen, from the front. This point is always easily determined, as a prominent tubercle juts out from the lateral lip of the iliac crest at the spot. It is situated rather more than two inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine, and it marks the point where the outline of the body meets the iliac crest. The