INFERIOR EXTREMITY 3o6 Dissection.—A satisfactory display of the interosseous muscles cannot be obtained unless the transverse ligament be divided betvvfeen the heads of the metatarsal bones. The toes can now be separated more freely from each other, and the interosseous muscles traced to their insertions. It is well also to reflect, at this stage, the flexor brevis digiti quinti. Interosseous Muscles.—The plantar uiterosseous muscles are three in number, and are so placed that they adduct the three lateral toes towards a line drawn through the second toe. They arise from the plantar aspects of the three lateral metatarsal bones, and each is inserted upon the medial side of the first phalanx of the corresponding toe. The dorsal inter- osseous muscles are four in number. They occupy the four inter- metatarsal spaces, and consequently they must be dissected both upon the plantar and dorsal aspects of the foot. They are arranged so as to abduct the second, third, and fourth toes from a line drawn through the second toe. They are inserted, therefore, as follows : the first the medial side of the second toe; the second upon the lateral side of the same toe; the third upon the lateral side of the third toe; and the fourth upon the lateral side of the fourth toe. The slender tendons of the interosseous muscles are only very slightly attached to the bases of the proximal phalanges. They are for the most part inserted into the expansions of the extensor tendons on the dorsal aspect of the toes. Tendon of the Tibialis Posterior.—Before leaving the sole of the foot the dissector must determine the precise insertions of the tendons of the tibialis posterior and of the peronteus longus. The tendon of the tibialis posterior is not merely inserted into the tubercle of the navicular bone. Fibrous slips are seen to spread out from it, and these may be traced to every bone of the tarsus with the exception of the talus, and also to the bases of the second, third, and fourth meta- tarsal bones. As it lies under and gives support to the head of the talus, the tendon of the tibialis posterior has developed within it a sesamoid nodule of fibro-cartilage, or perhaps a sesamoid bone. Tendon of the Peronseus Longus.—The tendon of the peronaeus longus turns round the lateral margin of the foot, and runs medially, across the sole, in the groove on the plantar surface of the cuboid bone, to reach the base of the first metatarsal bone. As it traverses the sole it is enclosed in a fibrous sheath. This sheath is mainly formed by fibres derived from the long plantar ligament. Open the sheath