464 ABDOMEN lies at a lower level, and therefore altogether behind the pancreas. The following are the branches of the splenic artery;— 1. Pancreatic branches. 2. Gastric. S^f^ric arteries. t Left gastro-epiploic. 3. Splenic branches. The arterice. pa?tcreaticce are small twigs which come off at various points for the supply of the pancreas. The pancreatica magna branch which is commonly described as accompanying the duct from left to right in the substance of the pancreas is not as a rule present. The Arteries Gastricce Breves (O.T. Vasa Brevia) are five or six small arteries, of which some arise directly from the splenic, whilst others take origin from its terminal branches. They run towards the stomach, between the two layers of the gastro-lienal ligament, and are distributed to the cardiac end of the viscus, anastomosing with the left gastric and left gastro-epiploic arteries. The Arteria Gastro-Epiploica Sinistra takes origin from the splenic, or one of its terminal branches near the spleen; it runs forwards, in the gastro-lienal ligament, and then turns to the right, along the greater curvature of the stomach, between the two anterior layers of the greater omentum. It gives branches which ascend to supply both aspects of the stomach, and others which descend into the greater omentum, and it ends by anastomosing with the right gastro-epiploic artery. The splenic or terminal branches of the splenic artery reach the spleen by passing between the two layers of the lieno-renal ligament. From the above description of the branches of the coeliac artery it will be seen that the stomach is remarkably rich in blood-vessels. Two proceed from left to right—viz. the left gastric along the lesser curvature, and the left gastro-epiploic along the greater curvature ; two, both branches of the hepatic, are directed from right to left—viz. the right gastric, in relation to the lesser curvature ; and the right gastro-epiploic, in relation to the greater curvature. The arterial circle is completed on the left by the short gastric arteries, which connect the coronary artery with the left gastro-epiploic. The splenic vein, the portal vein, the bile duct, and the inferior phrenic arteries will be considered at a later stage of the dissection. Ventriculus (Stomach).—The stomach is the most dilated