183 THE THIGH which the femoral sheath is derived, and the manner in which it is formed, must next be considered. This entails the study of some of the structures concerned in the construc- tion of the abdominal wall. Unfortunately it is not likely that, at this period, the dissection of the abdomen is in a sufficiently advanced state for their examination. A small portion of the medial part of the interval between the inguinal ligament and the portion of the innominate bone over which it stretches is filled up by the lacunar ligament. Immediately to the lateral side of this the femoral vessels, enclosed within the femoral sheath, enter the thigh from the abdominal cavity, whilst still more laterally the interval is occupied by the ilio-psoas muscle. Three nerves also find their way into the thigh through the interval, viz. the lumbo-inguinal nerve, which passes distally in the femoral sheath; the femoral (O.T. anterior crural) nerve, which occupies the interval be- tween the psoas and iliacus muscles ; and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh, which runs behind the inguinal ligament close to its iliac attachment. The arrangement of the aponeurotic lining of the abdominal cavity with reference to this interval of communi- cation between abdomen and thigh also requires attention. The lower part of the posterior wall of the abdomen, immedi- ately above the thigh, is formed by the iliacus and psoas muscles. These are covered by that part of the aponeurotic lining of the abdomen which receives the name of the fascia iliaca} The anterior wall of the abdomen is lined in like manner by a portion of the general lining, termed the fascia transversalis. To the lateral side of the femoral vessels these two fascial layers become continuous with each other, and at the same time are attached to the back of the inguinal liga- ment. It is behind this union that the ilio-psoas, the femoral nerve, and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh are carried distally into the thigh. But the external iliac vessels (which become the femoral vessels in the thigh) with the lumbo-inguinal nerve lie anterior to the fascia iliaca, or, in other words, within the fascial lining of the abdomen, and, as they proceed distally behind the inguinal ligament, they carry with them a * The dissector must bear in mind the distinction between the fascia iliaca and the iliac portion of the fascia lata. The former is a part of the general aponeurotic lining of the abdomen, and the latter is a part of the fascial invest- ment of the thigh.