THE UPPER EXTREMITY I I 2 whilst the transverse elevation above the roots of the fingers, which corresponds to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, constitutes the distal boundary of the central palmar depres- sion. Two pronounced bony projections on the front of the wrist cannot fail to attract attention when the hand is bent backwards. The more prominent of the two is situated at the proximal extremity of the thenar eminence, and is formed by the tubercle of the navicular bone and the vertical ridge on the front of the os multangulum majus ; the other is placed at the proximal end of the hypothenar eminence, and is some- what obscured by the soft parts attached to it. It is caused by the pisiform bone, and when taken firmly between the finger and thumb a slight degree of gliding movement can be communicated to it. Traversing the thick integument of the palm, three strongly marked furrows are apparent. One of these begins at the elevation formed by the navicular and os multangulum, and curves distally and laterally, around the base of the thenar eminence, to the lateral margin of the hand. A second crosses the palm transversely. Commenc- ing at the middle of the lateral border of the hand, where the first furrow ends, it runs medially, but, as a general rule, it fades away upon the hypothenar eminence. The third furrow begins near the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and proceeds medially with a gentle curve across the hypothenar eminence to the medial margin of the hand. The transverse cutaneous furrows at the roots of the fingers, and on the palmar aspects of the interphalangeal joints, should also be noticed. The furrows at the roots of the fingers are placed over the palmar aspects of the proximal phalanges very nearly one inch distal to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. The proximal of the two furrows palmar to each of the proximal interphalangeal joints is placed immediately over the articulation, whilst in the case of the distal inter- phalangeal joints the single crease which is usually present is situated immediately proximal to the articulation. On the back of the hand the metacarpal bones can be readily felt, whilst their distal extremities, or heads, form the promin- ences known as the “knuckles.” Reflection of Skin.—In the first instance the skin should only be raised from the palm. Two incisions are recjuired—viz. (i) a vertical incision along the middle line of the jialm ; (2) a transverse cut across the roots of the fingers from the medial to the lateral margin of the hand. The skin is tightly bound down to the subjacent palmar aponeurosis, and it must be