425 HERNIA ligament (Gimbernat’s). If the peritoneum is still in position at this point it may exhibit a slight dimpling or depression as it passes over the ring. Strip the peritoneum from the greater part of the iliac fossa. The extra- peritoneal fatty tissue, as it stretches across the femoral ring, will be observed to be denser, stronger, and more fibrous than elsewhere. A special name is applied to this small portion of the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. Seeing that it is applied to the ring in such a manner as to close the femoral canal at its abdominal end, it is called the septum femorale. The extra-peritoneal fatty tissue should now be dissected back with the handle of the knife, to the same extent as the peritoneum. The fascia iliaca clothing the iliacus and psoas muscles is thus exposed, and the dissector should note that the external iliac vessels lie within and not outside this fascia. The student is now in a position to study the manner in which the femoral ring is formed. Let him follow the fascia iliaca and the fascia transversalis towards the inguinal ligament. If the dissection has been carefully performed it will be obvious that, to the lateral side of the external iliac vessels, these two fasciae become directly continuous with each other, and, further, that along the line of union they are both firmly attached to the inguinal ligament. It is evident, then, that no hernial protrusion could leave the abdominal cavity behind the inguinal ligament and lateral to the iliac vessels. In the region of the iliac vessels the arrangement of the fascia will be found to be different. Here the fascia iliaca is carried downwards behind the vessels, whilst the fascia transversalis is prolonged downwards in front of the vessels and behind the inguinal ligament. In the region of the thigh they together constitute a funnel-shaped sheath for the femoral artery and vein, and for some lymph vessels ascending to the abdomen. This sheath is divided into three compartments by two vertical partitions. The femoral artery occupies the lateral compartment, and the vein ^he intermediate compartment, whilst the medial compartment, called the femoral canal, is occupied by the lymph vessels and, sometimes, by a small lymph gland. An essential difference between these compartments is this—-that whilst the two lateral are completely filled up, by the artery and vein, the femoral canal is much wider than is necessary for the passage of its contents. Gauge the width of the femoral ring by introducing the point of the little finger. It is readily admitted within the opening. Here, then, is a source of weakness to the abdominal wall, and one which is greater in the female than in the male, seeing that the distance between the iliac spine and pubic tubercle is proportionally greater in the female, and, in consequence, the femoral ring wider. When the finger is within the ring, mark the structures which surround it—in front, the inguinal ligament, with the spermatic cord or round ligament of the uterus ; behind, the ramus of the pubes, giving origin to the pectineus muscle, which is covered by the pectineal portion of the fascia lata ; medially, the sharp crescentic free border of the lacunar ligament ; and laterally, the external iliac vein. It is still more necessary to note the relations of the blood-vessels to the femoral ring. The external iliac vein has been seen to lie to its lateral side. The inferior epigastric artery, as it ascends on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, is close to its upper and lateral margin, and sends its pubic branch medially in front of it. More important than any of these is the relation of the obturator artery, when it takes origin from the inferior epigastric. This anomalous vessel may adopt one of three courses:—(i) It may follow the course of the pubic artery, an