AXILLARY SPACE 25 A. thoracalis suprema A. thoraco- acromialis A. thoracalis lateralis from the first part. from the second part. A. subscapularis . A. circumflexa humeri anterior A. circumflexa humeri posterior _ from the third part. A. Thoracalis Suprema (O.T. Superior Thoracic).—This is a small branch which springs from the axillary at the lower border of the subclavius. It ramifies upon the upper part of the medial wall of the axilla and supplies twigs to adjacent structures. A. Thoracoacromialis (O.T. Acromio thoracic or Thoracic Axis).—The thoraco-acromial artery is a short, wide trunk, which takes origin under cover of the pectoralis minor. It winds round the upper border of that muscle, pierces the costo- coracoid membrane, and immediately divides into numerous branches, which diverge widely from each other. These re- ceive different names, and are arranged as follows:—(a) The rawusc/aviai/an's,a sma\\ twig, which runs upwards to the clavicle and then turns medially along that bone between the clavicular part of the pectoralis major and the costocoracoid membrane. (^) The rami peciorales, of larger size, proceed downwards be- tween the two pectoral muscles, give branches to both, and they anastomose with the lateral thoracic and the lateral branches of the intercostal arteries, {c) The ramus acromialis runs laterally upon the tendon of the pectoralis minor and the coracoid process. Some of its twigs supply the deltoid, whilst others pierce it to reach the superior surface of the acromion. It anastomoses with the transverse scapular (suprascapular) and posterior circumflex humeral arteries. {d) The ramus deltoideus, as a rule, takes origin from a trunk common to it and the preceding artery. It runs distally in the intermuscular interval between the pectoralis major and the deltoid and supplies both muscles. A. Thoracalis lateralis (O.T. Long Thoracic).—This vessel takes the lower border of the pectoralis minor as its guide, and proceeds distally and medially to the side of the thorax. It gives branches to the neighbouring muscles, and it anastomoses with twigs from the intercostal arteries. It also supplies the mamma, giving off, as a rule, an external mammary branchy which winds round or pierces the lower border of the pectoralis major on its way to the gland. Alar Thoracic.—This small artery supplies the fat and lymph glands