PELVIS 643 of the pubes to the central point of the perineum, closely embrace the vagina, and act as a superior or second sphincter of the canal (Figs. 249, 252). Tubse Uterinse (O.T. Fallopian Tubes).—There are two uterine or Fallopian tubes, one on each side, and their function is to convey ova from the ovaries to the uterus. Each tube is about four inches long, and it is contained, in the greater part of its length, in the medial four-fifths of the upper border of the broad ligament. Its medial end pierces the uterus at the junction of the body and fundus. At a short distance from its lateral end it pierces the surface of the broad ligament, curls over the upper pole of the ovary, and opens into the peritoneal cavity by a constricted orifice, the ostium abdomittale, which is surrounded by a number of fringe- like processes called the fimbria. By one of these fimbriae, fimbria ovarica, it is attached to the tubal or upper pole of the ovary. Its calibre is by no means uniform. As it is traced from the uterus it is at first very narrow, scarcely admitting a bristle. This portion is the isthmis tuba uterina. More laterally it dilates considerably, and becomes convoluted and less closely attached to the peritoneum of the broad ligament. This part is called the a7npulla tuba uterina, and the fimbria which are merely the segments of the cleft wall of a funnel- like extremity constitute collectively the infiimdibulum tuba uterina. The ovarian fimbria is longer than the others, and is attached along its whole length to the broad ligament. On its surface is a gutter-like groove leading from the constricted mouth of the tube to the ovary. Traced from the uterus the tube runs first laterally, then, at the lateral wall of the pelvis, it turns upwards, and finally, having gained the upper pole of the ovary, it bends downwards and covers the posterior free border and the greater part of the medial surface of the ovary (Fig. 253). Ovarium (The Ovary).—The ovaries are two small solid bodies, each of which is attached to the posterior surface of the corresponding broad ligament, by a secondary fold of the posterior layer of the ligament called the mesovarium. Each ovary has the form of a slightly compressed ovoid, and is about the size of a pigeon’s egg. It presents two flattened surfaces, two extremities or poles, and two borders. Its natural or typical position can be studied only in women who have borne no children, for the ovaries become