ARTICULATIONS 331 fibres attached distally to the groove between the articular facets on the proximal surface of the calcaneus, and proximally to the corresponding groove on the distal surface of the talus. The lateral ligament is a short band of fibres which pro- ceeds from the lateral surface of the talus to the lateral surface of the calcaneus. It is parallel with the calcaneo- fibular ligament of the ankle-joint, but it is placed on a deeper plane, and lies somewhat more anteriorly. The medial talo- calcanean ligament * passes distally and forwards, from the medial border of the groove on the talus from the flexor hallucis longus to the sustentaculum tali. The posterior talo-calcafiean liga- ment passes from the posterior border of the talus to the cal- caneus. It closes the posterior talo- calcanean articula- tion behind. The dorsal talo- navicular liga7tient extends on the dorsum of talus to the navicular bone. Os calcis Scaphoid Posterior surface of navicular Plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament Lateral calcaneo- navicular ligament Facet on calcaneus for head of talus Interosseous talo* calcanean ligament Facet on calcaneus for body of talus Fig. 125.—Talus removed so as to show the socket for its head. the foot from the head of the It is thin and membranous. The medial and lateral parts of the capsule of the ankle- joint also help to keep the talus in its place. Dissection.—The talus should now be removed by dividing the various ligaments which hold it in place. By this proceeding the different parts which form the socket for the head of the talus will be brought into view; and the posterior talo-calcanean articulation will be seen to be completely cut off from the anterior articulation by the interosseous talo-calcanean ligament. The great strength of this ligament can ■ now be appreciated, and the facets on the head of the talus studied. These are:—(r) a convex surface which looks anteriorly and articulates with the navicular ; (2) an elongated facet on its distal aspect (sometimes divided into two), which rests upon the sustentaculum tali; and {3) between these, a triangular facet which corresponds with the proximal surface of the plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament. In the recent slate (and indeed