FEMALE PERINEUM 375 1—24 b A leading peculiarity of the female urethra is its great dilatability. Cases are on record in which vesical calculi weighing from two to four ounces have traversed it, and thus escaped from the bladder. It thus happens that in the extraction of foreign substances from the female bladder, it is rarely necessary to have recourse to the knife. M. Transversus Perinei Profundus and M. Sphincter Urethrae Membranaceae (O.T. Compressor Urethrae Muscle).— I'he deep transverse muscle of the perineum is less marked in the female than in the male, and is also less distinctly separable from the sphincter of the membranous part of the urethra. It rises laterally from the margin of the pubic arch, at the junction of the ischial and pubic rami, and terminates medially on the lower part of the posterior wall of the vagina. Its anterior fibres blend with the posterior fibres of the sphincter of the urethra. The sphincter consists of an internal layer of fibres arranged circularly round the urethra, and an external layer which springs from the pubic arch, anterior to the origin of the deep transverse muscle and from the inferior layer of the urogenital diaphragm. As the fibres of this layer approach the medial plane some pass in front of the vagina and urethra, and others are attached to the posterior wall of the vagina. Both the above muscles are sup- plied by twigs from the perineal branch of the pudendal nerve. Glandulse Vestibularis Majores (O.T. Bartholin’s Glands).— These glands are the representatives, in the female, of the bulbo-urethral glands of the male. They are two round or oblong bodies, about the size of a horse-bean, placed one upon each side of the entrance to the vagina immediately behind the rounded end of the bulb, and under cover of the sphincter vaginte. A long duct proceeds from each gland, and opens in the angle between the labium minus and the hymen or carunculae myrtiformes (Fig. 140, p. 373). Internal Pudendal Vessels and the Pudendal Nerve.—The internal pudendal vessels and the pudendal nerve have a similar disposition to the corresponding vessels and nerve in the male (p. 360). If anything, they are somewhat smaller. The student must therefore look for the artery to the bulb, a branch of the internal pudendal, which in this case is given to the bulb of the vagina, and the two terminal branches of the internal pudendal artery, viz. the dorsal artery of the clitoris, and the artery to the corpus cavernosum. The pudendal nerve ends by dividing into the [)crineal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris.