AXILLARY SPACE 35 I—3 « naturally into three parts, (a) The upper part, composed of the large first digitation alone, arises from the first and second rihs, and from a tendinous arch between them. The fibres converge, to be inserted into a somewhat triangular surface on the costal aspect of the medial angle of the scapula, (b') The middle part consists of two digitations which take origin from the second and third ribs. The upper slip is very broad, and springs from the lower border of the second rib. The fibres diverge to form a thin muscular sheet, which is inserted into the anterior lip of the vertebral border of the scapula, between the insertions of the upper and lower portions, {c) The lower part is formed by the remaining digitations of the muscle. These converge to form a thick mass, which is inserted into a rough surface upon the costal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula. The deep surface of the serratus anterior is in contact with the chest wall. It is the most powerful protractor of the upper extremity. Dissection.—At the end of the fifth day, after the dissector has examined the serratus anterior and carefully revised the contents of the axilla he must replace the clavicle, pack the axilla with tow or rags steeped with disinfectant solution and fix the skin flaps to the wall of the thorax with a few stitches. When he returns on the sixth day he will find that the body has been placed upon its face, with blocks supporting the chest and the pelvis. It will remain in this position for five days, and during the first two of these the dis- sector of the upper extremity must examine the structures which connect the limb with the posterior aspect of the trunk. Surface Anatomy.—In the middle line of the back there is little difficulty in recognising the tips of the spinous processes of the vertebrae. These follow each other in consecutive order, and it may be observed, when the finger is passed over them, that all of them do not lie in the medial plane; some may be deflected, in a slight degree, to one side or the . other. The spines of the vertebrae are the only parts of the vertebral column which come to the surface; they alone yield direct information, by touch, to the surgeon as to the condition of the spine. .At the lower end of the neck, the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra {vertebra prominens) makes a visible projection ; and the spines of the first two thoracic vertebrae are likewise very prominent. As a rule, the most evident of the three is that of the first thoracic vertebra. At a lower level, in subjects of good muscular development, a median furrow is produced by the prominence of the sacrospinalis muscle on each side, and