515 ABDOMINAL CAVITY The upper extremity of each ganglion is joined by the great splanchnic nerve of the same side, whilst the lower part, which is often more or less detached, is connected with the small splanchnic nerve. Plexus Gastricus Superior.—The left gastric plexus springs from the front of the coeliac plexus. It accompanies the left gastric artery to the small curvature of the stomach and distributes twigs to both aspects of the viscus. Plexus Hepaticus.—The hepatic plexus also springs from the front of the central part of the coeliac plexus. It is joined by twigs from the left vagus nerve, and accompanies the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the bile-duct, to- the liver. At the lower margin of the small omentum, it gives off twigs which accompany the gastro-duodenal artery and its right gastro-epiploic branch ; these constitute the inferior gastric plexus. Plexus Lienalis.—The splenic plexus, like the left gastric and the hepatic plexuses, springs from the median and anterior part of the coeliac plexus. It accompanies the splenic artery to the spleen, and is joined by twigs from the right vagus nerve. It gives offshoots along the various branches of the artery. Plexus Eenalis.—Each renal plexus consists-of numerous nerves which spring chiefly from the medial and lateral part of the corresponding cceliac ganglion. Some will be found, however, coming from the strands of the coeliac plexus and others from the aortic plexus. The smallest or third, splanchnic nerve, when it is present, joins tiiis plexus. Thus constituted, the filaments of the renal plexus run with the renal artery to the hilus of the kidney, and are distributed within the gland substance. Several twigs are likewise given to the spermatic plexus. A few scattered ganglia are usually found in connection with the renal plexus. Plexus Suprarenalis.—The dissector will be struck with the large number of nerves which supply the suprarenal glands. They are chiefly derived from the coeliac ganglion of the same side, but many come from the strands of the coeliac plexus. Below, each suprarenal plexus is directly continuous with the renal plexus, and above, it is connected with the dia- phragmatic plexu.s. The smallest splanchnic nerve usually contributes a branch to this plexus, and the point at which it joins is marked by a small ganglion. Plexus Phrenicus.—The filaments composing each phrenic plexus take origin from the upper part of the coeliac ganglion of the same side, and are distributed with the inferior phrenic artery, to the under surface of the diaphragm, but they do not follow rigorously the branches of this vessel. At first they lie subjacent to the peritoneum, but soon they penetrate be- tween the fleshy fasciculi and establish communications with the phrenic nerve. On the right side a small ganglion is formed on the under surface of the diaphragm at the point of junction between this plexu.s and the phrenic. In addition to its diaphragmatic branches the phrenic plexus contributes filaments to the suprarenal plexus, and, on the right side, to the hepatic plexus. Plexus Mesentericus Superior.— The superior mesenteric plexus springs from the lower part of the central portion of the coeliac plexus and descends, with the superior mesenteric artery, in the root of the mesentery of the small intestine. It gives offsets along the branches of the artery. Plexus Aorticus Abdominalis.—The abdominal aortic plexus is formed mainly by branches derived from the ganglia of the abdominal parts of the sympathetic cords, but it is connected above with the coeliac and superior