FRONT OF THE ARM 67 distally as far as the elbow. Its filaments are distributed to the skin over the lateral and anterior part of the distal half of the arm. The larger loiver bra?ich can be followed as far as the wrist, and not infrequently its terminal filaments even reach the dorsum of the hand. It supplies the skin on the dorsal aspect of the forearm. It should be borne in mind that the skin on the lateral aspect of the limb, above these nerves and over the deltoid, is supplied by the cutaneous branches of the axillary nerve and the posterior supraclavicular nerves of the cervical plexus (p. 48). The lateral aUatieous nerve of the forearm is the terminal part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. It will be found in front of the elbow-joint where it pierces the deep fascia on the lateral side of the tendon of the biceps brachii. It is a large nerve, and proceeds distally behind the median cephalic vein. The skin, both upon the volar and dorsal aspects of the lateral side of the forearm, is supplied by this nerve, and it is distributed by two main branches. The larger volar branch can be traced as far as the skin over the ball of the thumb. A few of its terminal twigs pierce the fascia above the wrist, and join the radial artery, by which they are conducted to the dorsal aspect of the carpus. The dorsal branch may be followed on the dorsal aspect of the limb as far as the wrist. The intercosto-brachial nerve can usually be traced half-way down the arm; but the area of skin which it supplies is somewhat variable. The posterior cutaneous ne?-ve of the arm is a branch of the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve. It proceeds downwards and backwards on a deeper plane, and crosses posterior to the intercosto-brachial nerve. Its filaments extend upon the back of the arm as low as the elbow-joint. The medial brachial cutaneous 7ierve will be found piercing the deep fascia, to become superficial, half-way down the medial side of the arm. Its twigs may be followed, in the sui^erficial fascia, as far as the olecranon. On the medial side of the arm, on its dorsal aspect, three nerves therefore have been traced. P'rom the medial to the lateral side these are: the medial brachial cutaneous nerve, the intercosto-brachial nerve, and the posterior cutaneous brachial branch of the radial nerve (Fig. 28). The medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm (internal 1—5 «