4(>3 ABDOMINAL CAVITY from' the hepatjg at the pylorus, and then runs from right to left, along the lesser curvature of the stomach, between the two layers of. the gastro-hepatic omentum. It ends by inosculat- ing with the left gastric; the accompanying vein terminates in the portal vein. The Arteria Gastro-Duodenalis arises close to the pyloric artery, and is directed downwards, behind the first part of the duodenum, in a groove on the anterior aspect of the neck of the .pancreas. At the lower border of the duodenum it ends by dividing into the superior pancreatico-duodenal and the right gastro-epiploic branches (Fig. 170). The Arteria Pancreatico-Duodenal is Superior runs first to the right and then downwards between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum. It anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric artery forming an arch round the head of the pancreas. It gives branches to both the duodenum and the pancreas. The pancreatico-duodenal veins join the superior mesenteric vein. The Arteria Gastro-Epiploica Dextra is directed from right to left, along the greater curvature of the stomach, and between the two anterior layers of the great omentum. It gives branches upwards to both surfaces of the stomach, and downwards to the greater omentum, and ends by anasto- mosing with the left gastro-epiploic branch of the splenic. The right gastro-epiploic vein joins the superior mesenteric vein. The right and left hepatic arteries, the terminal branches of the hepatic, diverge from each other, and sink into the liver at the two extremities of the porta hepatis. From the right hepatic a small branch called the cystic is given to the gall-bladder. This divides into two twigs, one of which ramifies in the areolar tissue between the liver and gall- bladder and the other upon the inferior surface of the gall- bladder, between it and its peritoneal covering. The cystic vein joins the vena portse or its right branch. Arteria Lienalis (Splenic Artery).—The splenic artery is the largest branch of the cceliac artery. It takes a wavy or tortuous course, along the upper border of the pancreas behind the omental bursa, towards the left side, and ends, in front of the left kidney, by dividing into five or six branches, which enter the hilus of the spleen. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which, however.