FRONT OF THE ARM 8i and dissect out the radial nerve, with the anterior terminal branch of the profunda brachii artery, which lie deeply in the interval between them. Here also the anastomosis between the profunda brachii artery and the radial recurrent arteries may be made out, in a well-injected subject ; and the twigs which are given by the radial nerve to the brachialis, the brachioradialis, and the extensor carpi radialis longus, should be looked for. Fossa Cubitalis (O.T. Antecubital Fossa).—This is a slight hollow in front of the elbow-joint. It corresponds to the fossa poplitea of the lower extremity, and within its area the brachial artery divides into its two terminal branches. In the first instance, consider the structures which cover it. Some of these have already been removed, they are the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. Within the superficial fascia are the median basilic and median cephalic veins, the volar branch of the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm. These structures constitute the coverings of the fossa. The fossa is triangular. Its base is directed proximally, and is usually regarded as being formed by a line drawn between the two epicondyles of the humerus. The medial boundary is the pronator teres muscle, and the lateral boundary the brachioradialis. The meeting of the two muscles distally constitutes the apex of the fossa. The boundaries must first be cleaned, then the contents of the fossa may be dissected. Within the fossa is the termination of the brachial artery and the proximal parts of the radial and ulnar arteries, into which it divides. To the lateral side of the main vessel is placed the tendon of the biceps brachii, and to its medial side the median nerve. A quantity of loose fat is also present. The ulnar artery leaves the space by passing under cover of the pronator teres; the radial artery is continued distally beyond the apex of the fossa, overlapped by the brachioradialis. The median nerve disappears between the two heads of the pronator teres, and the tendon of the biceps brachii inclines posteriorly, between the two bones of the forearm, to reach its insertion into the radial tuberosity. When the fatty tissue has been thoroughly removed the floor of the space will be revealed. This is formed by the brachialis and the supinator muscles. In this situation the brachialis is closely applied to the anterior aspect of the elbow-joint, whilst the supinator is wrapped round the upper part of the radius. VOL. I—6