26o INFERIOR EXTREMITY 3. N. saphenus. 4. N. peronaeus superficialis. 5. N. peronreus profundus. The lateral cutaneous tierve of the calf is a branch of the co7timon pennieal ne7-ve which frequently arises in common with the peroneal anastomotic branch. It turns anteriorly, and is distributed upon the lateral and anterior aspect of the proximal part of the leg. The sural 7ierve (O.T. short saphenous) can be readily found. It reaches the lateral margin of the foot by passing posterior to the lateral malleolus, in company with the small saphenous vein, and becomes the lateral dorsal cutaneous nerve. Trace it anteriorly, and it will be found to end upon the lateral side of the little toe. On the dorsum of the foot a connecting twig passes between this nerve and the lateral division of the superficial peroneal nerve (nervus cutaneus dor- salis intermedins). The saphenous 7ierve (O.T. inter7ialsaphe7ious ne7've) should be looked for anterior to the medial malleolus. It descends in company with the great saphenous vein. It may, with care, be followed half-way along the medial margin of the foot, but there it ends. Above the ankle-joint several minute twigs from this nerve may be found passing forwards to reach the front of the leg. The superficial peroneal 7ierve (O.T. 77msculo-cutaneotis yterve) appears in the distal third of the leg. It pierces the deep fascia a short way lateral to the middle line of the limb. Almost immediately it splits into a medial and a lateral part. The /7iedial division (the nervus cutaneus dorsalis medialis) extends anteriorly, on the dorsum of the foot, and sends one branch to the medial side of the great toe, and a second to supply the adjacent sides of the second and third toes. It likewise gives a number of twigs to the skin upon the medial margin of the -foot, and effects junctions with the deep peroneal nerve and the saphenous nerve. The lateral divisio7i (the intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve), is smaller than the medial part. It gives several twigs to the skin on the dorsum of the foot, communicates with the lateral dorsal cutaneous nerve, and then divides into two branches, which supply the contiguous margins of the third, fourth, and fifth toes. Therefore, with the exception of the adjacent sides of the great toe and the second toe, which are supplied by the deep peroneal nerve, and the lateral side of the little toe, which is supplied by the lateral dorsal continua-