ABDOMINAL CAVITY 539 and also at a higher level, being placed opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. In some cases its upper or anterior border is tendinous, and formed by the posterior margin of the central tendon. Posteriorly it is separated from the aortic opening by the decussation of the medial fibres of the crura. The oesophageal opening transmits the gullet and the two vagi nerves. The three large openings of the diaphragm, therefore, present very different features. The aortic opening is a fibrous arch behind the diaphragm, and it can in no way be affected by the contraction of the muscular fibres. The ve7ia caval ope7iing is in the central tendon, and its margins are attached to the wall of the vessel which it transmits ; con- traction of the diaphragm must therefore have a tendency to open this aperture to its widest extent. The oesophageal ope7tmg is placed in the muscular part, and consequently it is probable that the fibres which surround it may be capable of exercising a constricting influence upon the oesophagus, and in this way help to prevent regurgitation of food during the descent of the diaphragm. Little need be said regarding the smaller foramina. Each crus is pierced by the three splatichnic fierves, and the left crus is likewise perforated by the hemiazygos vein. The superior epigastric artery descends in the interval between the sternal and costal attachments of the diaphragm, and the musciilo-phrettic artery passes between two slips of the costal attachment opposite the eighth or ninth rib. Vessels on the Posterior Wall of the Abdomen. Dissection.—The abdominal aorta and its branches and the inferior vena cava must now be cleaned. In doing this, care should be taken of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic which extends downwards, on the vertebral column, along the anterior border of the psoas magnus. It is necessary to bear in mind that the lumbar branches of the aorta, as they proceed laterally, pass behhtd the sympathetic cord. Separate the right crus of the diaphragm from the aorta, and dissect in the interval between them. Here the cister7ia chyli and the vena azygos will be found. A chain of lymph glands, termed the hwibargla7tds, wilt be noticed in relation to the aorta. The only branches of the aorta which are liable to injury are the mternal spermatic arteries. These are two slender arteries which spring from the front of the vessel a short distance below the renal arteries. They are so small that they are apt to be overlooked. Aorta Abdominalis (Abdominal Aorta).—The abdominal aorta is the direct continuation of the thoracic aorta. It begins in the median plane, in the upper part of the aortic orifice of the diaphragm, in front of the lower border of the last dorsal vertebra, and it ends in front of the low'er border