6 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Dissection.—In searching for a cutaneous nerve, cut boldly down through the superficial fascia in the direction in which the nerve runs until the plane at which the superficial and deep fascia blend is reached. It is here that the main trunks are to be found ; and in a well-injected subject the cutaneous arteries furnish the best guides. Nervi Cutanei, Arterise Cutanese (Cutaneous Nerves and Arteries).—There are three distinct groups of cutaneous nerves for the supply of the skin on the anterior and lateral parts of the thorax. They are :— 1. The supraclavicular nerves—from the cervical plexus. 2. The anterior cutaneous, \from the anterior rami (intercostal) 3. The lateral cutaneous, / of the thoracic nerves. The supraclavicular nerves arise in the neck from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and, spreading out as they descend, they cross the clavicle under cover of the platysma. They are classified, according to their positions, into the anterior, the medial, and the posterior branches. The anierior are the smallest of the series; they cross the medial part of the clavicle to end in the skin immediately below. The medial branches pass over the middle of the clavicle and extend downwards, in the superficial fascia over the pectoralis major, as far as the third rib. The posterior cross the lateral third of the clavicle, and will be afterwards followed to the skin of the shoulder. These nerves can readily be found by cutting down upon the clavicle through the platysma, and in the direction of its fibres. The anterior cutaneous nerves are the minute terminal twigs of the anterior branches of the thoracic nerves. They become superficial by piercing the pectoralis major muscle and deep fascia close to the margin of the sternum. One will be found in each intercostal interval, and they are accompanied by the cutaneouspe)'forating bratiches of the internal mammary artery, which (when injected) serve as the best guides to the nerves. They give slender twigs to the skin over the sternum, and larger branches which are directed laterally, and may be traced as far as the anterior fold of the axilla. The lateral cutatieous nerves, much larger than the pre- ceding, arise from the anterior rami of the thoracic nerves, and appear on the side of the thora.x, along a line situated a little behind the anterior fold of the axilla. They pierce the wall of the thorax in the interspaces between the ribs, and divide into anterior and posterior branches under