ABDOMEN 486 remainder of the intestine is to tie a ligature around the lower cut end of the ileum, and fill the intestine as full as possible with water. The scissors can now be easily carried along the line of the mesenteric attachment, and the intestine slit open in its entire length. The intestine can be laid open with much greater ease if a piece of costal cartilage be impaled upon that blade of the scissors which is introduced into the bowel. Mucous Membrane of the Small Intestine.—The plica circii- lares (O.T. valvula conniventes) are the most conspicuous objects on the inner wall of the small intestine. These are folds of the mucous membrane placed more or less transversely to the long axis of the intestine. Note particularly that they are permanetit folds, and that no amount of stretching or distension of the walls will cause their obliteration. On careful study of the dried specimen three main varieties of plicae circulares may be recognised. The great majority are in the form of crescentic folds, which extend for a variable distance round the wall of the intestine; others form complete rings around the interior of the intestine ; whilst the third variety, and usually the least numerous, are arranged in a spiral manner, and take from one to three spiral turns around the wall of the intestine. Each fold consists of two layers of mucous mem- brane, with a little intervening areolar tissue derived from the submucous coat. The other coats of the intestine take no part in the formation of the valvulse conniventes. In the upper part of the jejunum the valvule conniventes are strongly developed, and placed so closely together that the intervals between them are hardly greater than the thickness of one of the folds. Lower down, however, they gradually diminish in numbers, become more widely separated, more oblique in their direction, and not nearly so prominent. Approaching the middle of the ileum, they become exceed- ingly sparse and far between, and a little beyond this they usually disappear altogether. The chief function of the valvulas conniventes is to increase the absorbing and secreting surface of the small intestine. Another peculiarity characteristic of the mucous lining of the small intestine is the presence of villi. These are minute projections of the mucous membrane, varying in length from about the ■g'Mh to of an inch. They occur in enormous numbers over the entire extent of the inner surface of the intestine, not only upon the plicae circulares, but also in the intervals between them, and they give to the mucous membrane a velvety or fleecy appearance.