ABDOMEN 420 latter until he exposes the lower part of the kidney, below the level of the last rib, and the adjacent part of the colon which lies along the lower and lateral part of the kidney. After this has been done the dissector of the abdomen ceases work till the body is re turned, when he will re-examine the anatomy of the inguinal region in association with the formation of hernia, and afterwards proceed to the investigation of the abdominal cavity and its contents. HERNIA. The anatomy of the abdominal wall, in the regions where hernia most frequently occurs, is of such great importance to the practical surgeon that special attention must be paid to it by the dissector. Hernia is the term applied to the abnormal protrusion, through the wall of the abdomen, of a viscus, or a part of a viscus, or of a part of a peritoneal fold which supports or is attached to a viscus. It most commonly occurs where the peritoneal sac, or a diverticulum of the peritoneal sac, was prolonged through the abdominal wall at some period of intra-uterine develop- ment, The two situations in which such prolongations are always present are the inguinal region and the umbilicus, and it is stated that a small diverticulum is almost always met with, in the subinguinal region, dipping into the mouth of the femoral canal of the femoral sheath. These three regions, therefore, are the situations in which hernia is most often met with and it is asserted that the most important factor in the production of hernia is the presence of a more or less definite persisting diverticulum of the peritoneum. The diverticulum which existed in the inguinal region was the processus vaginalis described on pp. 408, 409. This diverticulum passed obliquely through the wall of the abdomen producing the inguinal canal, and although the diverticulum disappears the canal made by its passage may be looked upon, to a certain extent, as a source of weakness to the part of the wall through which it runs. The weakness, however, is more apparent than real, for the canal is so oblique in the adult that its abdominal opening, the abdominal inguinal ring, is one and a half inch distant from its super- ficial opening, the subcutaneous inguinal ring) the opening is, therefore, valvular and the intra-abdominal pressure, forcing the posterior against the anterior wall, tends to close the canal;