6i SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION blood-vessels take part in this, viz.—(a) the transverse artery of the scapula; (^) ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery ; and (c) the subscapular artery. The ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery (O.T. posterior scapular) runs downwards in relation to the vertebral border of the scapula, and dispenses branches upon both the dorsal and costal aspects of the bone. The subscapular artery runs downwards and medially along the axillary border of the scapula, and at the inferior angle some of its terminal branches anastomose with the terminal twigs of the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery. The transverse artery of the scapula is brought into communication with the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery at the upper margin, by an anastomosis in the neighbourhood of the medial angle of the bone. But still more distinct anastomoses take place upon the dorsal and costal aspects of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa, branches of the transverse artery of the scapula inosculate with twigs from the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery; whilst in the infraspinous fossa, free communications are established between the circumflex arteiy of the scapula, the transverse artery of the scapula, and the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery. On the ventral aspect of the scapula, the ventral branch of the transverse artery of the scapula, the ventral branches of the circumflex artery of the scapula, and the ventral branches of the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery join to form a network. The importance of this free communication between the blood-vessels in relation to the scapula will be manifest when it is remembered that two of the main arteries, viz. the ramus de.scendens of the transverse cervical artery and the transverse artery of the scapula spring indirectly from the first part of the subclavian; whilst the third, viz. the subscapular, arises from the third part of the axillary. When, therefore, a ligature is applied to any part of the great arterial trunk of the upper limb, between the first stage of the subclavian and the third part of the axillary, this anastomosis affords ample means of re-establishing the circulation. Dissection.—Detach the subscapularis from the scapula and lift it laterally to its insertion. This will afford a better view of its relation to the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and also of the subscapular bursa. In a well-injected subject the ventral anastomosis can likewise be made out. Ligamentum Transversum Scapulae Superius (O.T. Supra- scapular Ligament) and Lig. Trans versum Scapulae Inferius (O.T\ Spinoglenoid Ligament).—These are two ligamentous