257 BACK OF THE THIGH surface of the transverse ligament and the cushion of fat which occupies the bottom of the cavity. Lastly, it gives a tubular investment to the ligamentum teres. Removal of the Limb.—The limb may now he removed from the trunk by dividing the ligamentum teres. It should then be taken to one of the tables set aside for the dissection of separate parts. Before proceeding to the dissection of the leg it is advisable to study the attachments of the various muscles to the femur. The bulk of these may be removed, but a small portion of each should be left, so that their connections may again be revised, should it be found necessary to do so at a later period. THE LEG. Surface Anatomy.—The relation of the tibia and fibula to the surface should be carefully investigated. The sharp crista anterior or shin of the tibia does not form a projection visible to the eye, but nevertheless it is subcutaneous, and can be very distinctly felt when the finger is passed along it. It pursues a slightly sinuous course and, in its distal part, becomes rounded-off and indistinct. The broad, flat, medial surface of the body of the tibia is also subcutaneous, distal to the level of the insertion of the sartorius, and the medial border of the bone can be followed by the finger throughout its entire length. The fibula is more deeply placed, and the proximal half of its body cannot be felt from the surface owing to the manner in which it is sur- rounded by muscles. The head of the bone, however, is very evident where it articulates with the lateral and posterior part of the lateral condyle of the tibia. For a short distance above the lateral malleolus the body of the fibula is subcutaneous over a triangular area which is interposed between the peronaeus I tertius mu.scle anteriorly and the peronaeus longus and I peronaeus brevis muscles posteriorly. , The two malleoli form marked projections in the region of I the ankle. The medial malleolus is the broader and more 1 prominent of the two; it does not descend so far distally, ‘ but its anterior border is situated more anteriorly than the i lateral malleolus. This is due to its greater breadth, because, ’ when examined from behind, the posterior borders of the two I projections are seen to occupy very nearly the same plane. On the posterior aspect of the leg the prominence known VOL. I—17