359 MALE PERINEUM the pubic arch ; and (4) that the space between the two layers contains:— 1. The membranous portion of the urethra and its sphincter muscle. 2. The deep transverse perineal muscle. 3. The bulbo-urethral (Cowper’s) glands. 4. The internal pudendal vessels, the dorsal nerves of the penis, and the arteries to the bulb. Dissection.—To e.xpose these parts, the superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm must be raised upon one side of the body. It should be carefully preserved upon the opposite side, for it is required as a landmark in the subsequent dissection of the pelvis. On the side selected detach the membrane from the margin of the pubic arch, and, cautiously raising it from the subjacent structures, throw it medially towards the bulb. Pars Membranaceae Urethrae (Membranous Portion of the Urethra).—The canal of the urethra is subdivided for descrip- tive purposes into three parts, according to the structures which are in relation to its walls as it passes from the bladder to its termination on the glans penis. These are—(i) the prostatic portion; (2) the membranous or muscular portion; and (3) the cavernous portion. Each of these subdivisions has a very definite relation to the urogenital diaphragm; the prostatic part is placed above and posterior to both layers of the diaphragm; the membranous part is situated between the two layers; whilst the cavernous portion lies anterior and inferior to the diaphragm. Now that the superficial fascia of the diaphragm is removed upon one side, the student can readily feel, with the point of the finger, the staff as it lies within the membranous portion of the urethra. He should examine the surroundings of this canal. It is the shortest subdivision of the urethra, and is distant about one inch from the symphysis pubis. Throughout its entire extent it is enveloped by the fibres of the sphincter muscle, and on this account it is sometimes called the muscular part of the urethra. On each side, and at a lower level, is a bulbo-urethral (Cowper’s) gland, whilst between it and the symphysis pubis is the dorsal vein of the penis which is separated from it by the transverse liga- ment of the pelvis. M. Transversus Perinei Profundus and M. Sphincter Urethrae Membranaceae (O.T. Compressor Urethrae Muscle). —The deep transverse muscle of the perineum is a small fan-shaped muscle which lies between the fascial layers of the urogenital diaphragm. It has a tendinous origin 1—23 6