INFERIOR EXTREMITY 292 formed by the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the lateral tuberosity of the calcaneus. In connection with the plantar aponeurosis two ititer- muscular septa have also to be studied. These pass dorsally into the sole, along the lines of the longitudinal furrows which mark off the intermediate from the medial and lateral parts of the aponeurosis. They consequently lie one upon either side of the flexor digitorum brevis, and form partitions which separate it from the abductor hallucis on the one side, and the abductor digiti quinti on the other. Dissection.—To demonstrate these septa, make a transverse incision through the intermediate portion of the plantar aponeurosis, about an inch in front of the medial tuberosity of the calcaneus, and also a longitudinal cut through the same piece of aponeurosis, extending from the first incision along the middle line of the foot. Now raise the divided fascia and throw it laterally and medially. Some difficulty will be experienced in effecting ' this, owing to its affording a surface of origin, in its posterior part, to the subjacent flexor digitorum brevis. As the margins of this muscle are approached the septa are brought into view. Muscles and Tendons of the Sole.—It is customary to look upon the muscles and tendons which we find in the dissection of the sole as being disposed in four strata, viz. :— f Abductor hallucis. Flexor digitorum brevis, f Abductor digiti quinti. (Tendon of flexor digitorum longus. M. quadratus plantre. Lumbrical muscles. Tendon of flexor hallucis longus. I Flexor hallucis brevis. 1 Adductor hallucis, oblique and transverse heads. ( Flexor brevis digiti quinti. I ( Interosseous muscles. Tendon of the peronteus longus. ^Tendon of the tibialis posterior. Dissection.—The lateral and medial portions of the plantar aponeurosis should be raised from the subjacent muscles. The three superficial muscles of the sole are then exposed to view and their connections can be studied. The pexor digitorum brerois is placed intermediately, the abductor digiti quinti extends along the lateral margin of the sole, and the abductor hallucis along the medial margin of the sole. In the interval between the abductor hallucis and flexor digitorum brevis the medial plantar nerve and artery will be found. Follow the nerve toward the toes and dissect out its four common digital branches. In doing so, care must be taken of the muscular twigs which are given to the flexor hallucis brevis and the most medial lumbrical muscle. Slender branches of the medial plantar artery accompany the common digital nerves. Now trace the trunk of the medial plantar nerve posteriorly, by carefully separating the flexor digitorum brevis First layer. Second layer. Third layer. Fourth layer.