2 THE UPPER EX-rREMITY by the dissector of the upper extremity,' and five days are allowed for the examination of the axilla-and-the muscles .1' which pass to it from the anterior portion of the thoracic region of the body. The following, table may be found useful in regulating- the amount of work' which should be carried out ■ on each day :-—- First Day.—{a) Surface anatomy ; (6) reflection of the skin ; (r) cutane- ous vessels and nerves of the anterior and lateral aspects of the thorax; i (a') examination of the fascia of the pectoralis major and the axillary fascia ; (e) the cleaning of the pectoralis major ; {/} the reflection of the pectoralis major. Second Day.—{a) The examination of the costo-coracoid membrane and the structures piercing it; (d) the removal of the costo-coracoid membrane and the examination of the structures posterior to it. Third Day.—{a) The cleaning of the pectoralis minor ; (b) the cleaning of the contents of the axilla below the pectoralis minor. Fourth Day.—{a) The reflection of the pectoralis minor ; (d) the com- pletion of the cleaning of the contents of the axilla ; (r) the cleaning of the serratus anterior ; (d) the cleaning of the posterior wall of the axilla ; {e) the reflection of the subclavius; (/) the examination of the sterno- 'd clavicular articulation and the disarticulation of the clavicle at the sterno- clavicular joint. Fifth Day.—{a) The brachial plexus and a general review of the axilla and its contents. | Surface Anatomy. —Before jjroceeding to the actual dis- ; section of any region, the student should make it an invariable practice to familiarise himself with the bony prominences within its area. It is by using these as landmarks that the surgeon is enabled to establish the positions of the component parts of the body in the living subject. At the lower part of the neck the entire length of the clavicle can be felt under the skin (Fig. i), and as the student follows its curves, with his finger, he can recognise the positions of the origins of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles from its anterior border (Fig. 5). In a few instances these muscles may present an unbroken line of origin from the sternal to the acromial ends of the bone, but in the vast majority of cases a triangular interval is left between them. This is marked on the surface by a shallow depression, termed the delto- pectoral triangle (infraclavicular fossa), and it is rendered all the more apparent by the prominence of the shoulder on its lateral side, and the sharp backward curvature of the clavicle immediately above it. If the finger be placed in this triangle, and pressed backwards and laterally, it will rest upon the medial side of the coracoid process of the scapula.