INFERIOR EXTREMITY 298 Nervus Plantaris Lateralis (O.T. External Plantar Nerve). —The lateral plantar nerve corresponds to the ulnar nerve in the palm of the hand. It accompanies the lateral plantar artery and presents the same relations. In the interval between the abductor digiti quinti and the flexor digitorum brevis, opposite the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, it divides into a deep and a superficial part. The deep division follows the plantar arch under cover of the flexor tendons. The superficial division divides into a proper and a common digital branch. From the trunk of the lateral plantar nerve proceed two muscular branches, viz. to the quadratus plantee and to the abductor digiti quinti. The first or lateral proper digital branch of the superficial part of the lateral plantar nerve goes to the lateral side of the little toe. It also gives muscular twigs to the flexor brevis digiti quinti and the interosseous muscles in the fourth intermetatarsal space. The second conmton digital branch divides into two proper digital branches which supply the adjacent sides of the fourth toe and little toe. It likewise sends a twig of com- munication to the third common digital branch of the medial plantar nerve. Dissection.—The abductor digiti quinti should be completely detached from its origin, and turned forwards in order that a good display may be obtained of the structures composing the second stratum of the sole. Second Layer of Muscles and Tendons.—As the tendon of the fiexor hallucis longus enters the sole it grooves the under surface of the sustentaculum tali and inclines medially towards the great toe. The tendon of the fiexor digitorum longus, on the other hand, inclines laterally to reach the middle of the foot, where it divides into four tendons for the four lateral toes. Moreover, the tendons of these two muscles cross each other in the sole—the tendon of the flexor digitorum lying upon the plantar or superficial surface of the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus, and receiving from it a strong tendinous slip. Sir William Turner has called attention to the fact that this slip, which passes from the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, varies greatly in magnitude and in the manner in which it is connected with the flexor tendons of the toes. In the majority of cases it goes to the tendons of the second and third toes ; in some cases, however, only to the tendon of the second toe, or to the tendons of Uie second, third, and fourth toes. Very rarely does it divide so as to bring