514 ABDOMEN The peritoneal investment adheres so closely to the subjacent fibrous coat that it can only be removed with difficulty. With regard to the fibro-elastic tunic (tunica propria), it should be noted that processes proceed from its deep surface and dip into the substance of the organ. These are the trabecula:, and they constitute the supporting framework of the gland-pulp. On account of this arrangement, it will be found utterly impossible to strip off the fibrous coat of the spleen without at the same time lacerating its surface. Make a section through the organ, and carry a portion off it to the tap. By squeezing it and allowing the water to run freely over it, a view of the trabecular framework may be obtained. Disced ion.—The sympathetic plexuses of the upper part of the abdomen may now be studied with advantage. Throw the tail and body of the pancreas and the first part of the duodenum over to the right. Next turn to the left coeliac ganglion, which was displayed when the posterior wall of the omental bursa was removed, lying between the left border of the coeliac artery and the medial border of the left suprarenal gland (see p. 460). From the medial border of the left coeliac ganglion trace sympathetic nerve fibres across the front of the aorta round the root of the coeliac artery to the opposite ganglion which lies behind the inferior vena cava. To expose the right coeliac ganglion, therefore, it is necessary to displace to the right the portion of the inferior vena cava which lies behind the first part of the duodenum and to fix it out of the way with hooks or pins. Follow each coeliac ganglion upwards and backwards to its union with the great splanchnic nerve of the same side, and follow the splanchnic nerve to the point where it passes into the abdomen by piercing the crus of the diaphragm of the corresponding side. Sympathetic Plexuses.—In connection with the sympa- thetic nervous system three large plexuses are formed in front of the vertebral column: they are the cardiac plexus in the thorax, the coeliac or solar plexus in the upper part of the abdomen proper, and the hypogastric plexus in the lower part of the abdomen proper. The Coeliac or Solar Plexus, which is by far the largest of the three, consists of the two coeliac (O.T. semilunar) ganglia and the numerous nerve bundles which connect the ganglia together. It lies at the level of the lower part of the last dorsal and the upper part of the first lumbar vertebra in front of the crura of the diaphragm and the uppermost part of the abdominal portion of the aorta, between the medial margins of the suprarenal glands, and around the coeliac artery. Numerous offshoots arise from it and pass either along the adjacent arteries, or to the suprarenal glands and the kidneys ; these constitute secondary plexuses. Ganglia Cceliaca (O.T. Semilunar Ganglui).—The coeliac ganglia are of irregular shape, and they are so large that they are frequently mistaken by students for lymphatic glands.