iii PREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION In this the fifth edition of Professor Cunningham’s Manual of Practical Anatomy—the first edition which has appeared since his death—the editor has attempted to retain the essential features of a book which is neither a text-book of anatomy nor a mere description of the methods to be adopted for the satisfactory dissection of the different regions of the body. In a sense it is a combination of the two which avoids minuteness of detail, in- dispensable in a text-book, whilst at the same time it endeavours to be a reliable guide for those who desire to obtain a knowledge and comprehension of human anatomy which will be of practical use in the ordinary course of their professional work. The present edition differs from those which have preceded it in two important respects. Some of the plans of dissection have been changed and the Basle anatomical nomenclature has been adopted throughout. In Vol. I. the plans of dissection which have been either entirely altered or greatly modified are those dealing with the dissections of the axilla, the abdomen and the pelvis, and the changes have been made with the object of bringing the methods of dissection more into line with the necessities of present-day operative procedure, that is, with the object of displaying the parts in a sequence which shall be introductory to the study of the anatomical details of clinical diagnosis and operative work. All the dissections described have been performed repeatedly and successfully, in the dissecting-rooms of the University of Edinburgh, by students dissecting the parts for the first time ; and the new figures illustrating the various stages of the dissection of the abdomen have been drawn from dissections made by students preparing, in the ordinary way, for their professional examination in anatomy. Other plans were tried before those which are described were finally adopted ; and I am greatly indebted to my first and second assistants, Dr. E. B. Jamieson and Mr. T. B. Johnston, and to Pro- fessor R. B. Thomson of the South African College, Capetown, formerly my second assistant, for their loyal help and valuable suggestions during the progress of the work. 1 am also indebted to Messrs. O. Blackley, S. J. Linzell, M. Barseghian, R. C. Rogers, and F. M. Halley, for the skilful help, so willingly given, in the preparation of the dissections from which new drawings have been made, and to Mr. J. T. Murray, for the drawings, which fully sustains the reputation he has gained as a delineator and interpreter of anatomical subjects. The reasons for the adoption of the Basle anatomical nomen- clature are mainly two. Firstly, and chiefly, because it is more