PELVIS 5 73 urethral orifice, semilunar or V-shaped in outline, with a slightly elevated posterior lip which is known as the uvula of the bladder (Figs. 224 and 225). The elevation indicates the position of the middle lobe of the prostate gland below. When the bladder is empty and contracted a number of radial ridges of mucous membrane diverge from the margins of the orifice. The ureteral orifices lie at the posterior angles of the trigone. They are small semilunar slits, and are frequently connected together by a transverse bar of mucous mem- brane {torus vesicalis) which covers a bar of muscle. This ridge is sometimes spoken of as Mercier’s bar. Not uncommonly a ridge of mucous membrane will be found connecting each ureter with the urethra, and the muscular bands which underlie the latter ridges are known as Bell’s muscles. Probes should be passed along the ureters to demonstrate the obliquity with which the ducts pass through the bladder wall. It will be found that each ureter runs through the substance of the bladder wall for about three- quarters of an inch (20 mm.). This arrangement serves the purpose of a valve which allows urine to pass easily into the bladder but tends to prevent its backward flow. When the bladder is distended the openings of the ureters are about an inch and a half apart (37 mm.), and about the same distance from the orifice of the urethra, but when the viscus is empty and contracted the distance between the orifices is reduced to about one inch (25 mm.) in each case. The dissector should now investigate the relations of the fundus of the bladder by palpation. Keeping one index finger in the bladder and passing the other into the rectum, he will find that he can distinguish the prostate below and around the internal urethral orifice. Above the level of the prostate he can feel the thick walls of the deferent ducts, one on each side of the medial plane, and more laterally he will recognise the convoluted coils of the seminal vesicles. If he passes his finger upwards, along the median plane, he will find that the deferent ducts diverge, and that between them the rectum and bladder lie in contact. The area in which this contact occurs corresponds with the posterior part of the trigone, and varies considerably in size. When the bladder is empty the area is small or absent, but it increases considerably when the bladder is distended, and at one time