ABDOMINAL CAVITY 451 This recess, when the body is recumbent, is the most dependent part of the omental bursa. The anterior wall of the omental bursa is formed, from above downwards, by the peritoneum on the posterior surface of the caudate lobe of the liver, the lesser omentum, the peritoneum on the posterior surface of the stomach, and by the anterior two layers of the greater omentum. The left lateral boundary is formed in the region of the uppermost recess by the reflection of the peritoneum from the margin of the fissure for the ductus venosus to the crura of the diaphragm, at a lower level, posteriorly, by the lieno-renal ligament, which passes from the left kidney to the spleen (see Fig. 172), and anteriorly by the gastro-lienal ligament which connects the spleen with the stomach ; and at a still lower level by the union of the two anterior with the two posterior layers of the greater omentum at the left free border of the omentum (Fig. 173). The splenic artery runs forwards in the left lateral wall, between the layers of the lieno-renal ligament, and the short gastric branches and the left gastro- epiploic branch of the splenic artery run onwards to the stomach between the layers of the gastro-lienal ligament. The right lateral wall is formed, from below upwards, by the union of the two anterior with the two posterior layers of the greater omentum at its right free border (Fig. 170). Next by the reflection of the posterior of the two anterior layers backwards from the posterior surface of the first part of the duodenum to the front of the pancreas, where it be- comes continuous with the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon (Fig. 173). Immediately above the duodenum the right boundary is absent and the small sac communicates with the great sac through the epiploic foramen (Winslow). Above the epiploic foramen the right margin of the small sac is formed, in the upper recess, by the reflection of the peritoneum from the right border of the caudate lobe (Spigelian) of the liver to the right crus of the diaphragm. The hepatic artery turns round the right border of the sac immediately behind the upper border of the first part of the duodenum, producing the right pancreatico-gastric fold previously mentioned. The Great Sac of the Peritoneum.—After he has made himself thoroughly conversant with the cavity of the omental bursa the dissector should study the cavity of the great sac. It is the cavity into which he opened when he cut through