484 ABDOMEN arteries pass into the pelvic meso-colon, and there form a series of arcades, varying in number according to the length of this mesentery, from which the twigs for the supply of the pelvic colon are given off. The superior hamorrhoidal artery will be followed out in the dissection of the pelvis. Vena Mesenterica Inferior.—This vein receives tributaries corresponding with the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery. It passes upwards, upon the psoas magnus muscle, under cover of the peritoneum, to the left of, and at some distance from, the artery, and, disappearing behind the pancreas, it ends in the splenic vein. Plexus Mesentericus Inferior.—This plexus of nerve fibres is an offshoot from the ■ left side of the aortic plexus. It closely surrounds the artery, and sends twigs along the branches of the vessel to supply the left half of the large intestine. Plexus Aorticus Abdominalis.—The aortic nerve plexus is placed upon the aorta between the origins of the two mesenteric arteries. It is more strongly marked upon the sides of the artery than in front of it. Superiorly it is continuous with the coeliac and renal plexuses, but this fact must be demonstrated at a later stage of the dissection, whilst interiorly it sends several large branches downwards, in front of the common iliac arteries, to join the hypogastric plexus—-a plexus which is situated in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Upon each side the aortic plexus will be observed to be reinforced by several small twigs from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The mferior mesenteric plexus accompanying the artery of that name, and the internal spermatic (or ovarian) plexus of nerves which accompanies the internal spermatic (or ovarian) artery, are offsets from it. Removal of the Jejunum and Ileum.—Apply two ligatures round the jejunum about an inch below the duodenal flexure and divide the gut between them ; next place two ligatures round the ileum about six inches above its union with the large intestine, and divide it in like manner ; then cut through the blood-vessels and the remains of the mesentery close to the wall of the gut and remove the separated portion. When they have been detached the jejunum and ileum should be taken to the sink, the ligatures should be removed, and the cavity of the separated portion of the gut should be thoroughly cleaned by allowing water from the tap to run through it. The coats of the small intestine should be dissected under water. Take a few inches from the upper end of the jejunum, and, having opened it up with the scissors along the mesenteric line of attachment, pin it out, with