i6 I ARTICULATIONS Movements at the Carpal Joints.—The movements at the carpal joints supplement those at the radio-carpal joint, and tend greatly to increase the range of movement at the wrist. Between the individual bones of each row the movement is of a gliding character, and very limited. At the trans- verse intercarpal joint volar and dorsal movements (flexion and extension) are alone allowed. By the multiplicity of joints in this part of the limb, strength and elasticity is contributed to the wrist. Dissection.—The interosseous muscles should now be removed from the metacarpal bones. At the same time the flexor tendons and lumbrical muscles may be detached from the fingers. The extensor tendons, how- ever, should be left in position on the dorsal surfaces of the metacarpo- phalangeal and interphalangeal joints. The ligaments which connect the carpus and metacarpus, and those which pass between the bases of the four medial metacarpal bones, should be cleaned and defined. Articulationes InTERMETACARPEAl (Intermetacarpal Joints). The four metacarpal bones of the fingers articulate with each other by their basal or proximal extremities, and are united together by strong ligaments. The metacarpal bone of the thumb stands aloof from its neighbours, and enjoys a much greater freedom of movement. The ligaments which bind the four medial metacarpal bones to each other are— 1. A series of volar and dorsal bands which pass trans- versely and connect their basal extremities. 2. Three stout interosseous ligaments., which occupy the intervals between the basal ends of the bones. 3. The transverse ligatnents of the heads, which connect the heads or distal extremities of the bones (p. 146). This liga- ment has been removed in the dissection of the interosseous muscles. The interosseous ligaments cannot be seen at present, but can be studied later on by separating the bases of the metacarpal bones from each other. Articulationes Carpometacarpea!; (Carpo-metacarpal Joints). The metacarpal bone of the thumb articulates with the os multangulum majus by a joint which is quite distinct from the other carpo-metacarpal articulations. A capsular ligament surrounds the joint, and is sufficiently lax to allow a very con-