230 INFERIOR EXTREMITY Small Lateral Rotator Muscles of the Thigh.—Under this heading are included the piriformis, obturator internus, gemelli, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. They are all inserted into or in the neighbourhood of the greater trochanter of the femur, and they are applied to the posterior surface of the capsule of the hip-joint. The piriformis arises within the pelvis from the three middle pieces of the sacrum, and slightly from the upper margin of the great sciatic notch of the hip bone. The sacral origin cannot be seen at present, but the iliac origin should be made out. After passing through the great sciatic foramen, the muscle is directed distally, laterally, and anteriorly. Its fleshy belly rapidly tapers and ends in a rounded tendon, which crosses superficial to the common tendon of the obturator internus and gemelli, and is inserted into a small impression on the highest part of the greater tro- chanter of the femur (Fig. 75, p. 202). It is closely adherent to the subjacent obturator tendon for some distance. The piriformiis is supplied by branches from the first and second sacral nerves. The obturator mternus and gemelli constitute, together, a tricipital muscle with one large intra-pelvic belly (obturator internus), and two small extra-pelvic bellies (gemellus superior and inferior). The common tendon of this tricipital muscle is inserted into an impression on the upper part of the greater trochanter of the femur immediately anterior and medial to the insertion of the piriformis (Fig. 75, p. 202). The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium at the upper margin of the small sciatic notch. Its fibres pass laterally along the superior border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and are inserted obliquely into that tendon. The gemellus inferior arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, at the lower margin of the small sciatic notch, and is in- serted into the distal border of the obturator tendon, in a similar manner to the gemellus superior. Close to their origins the gemelli meet under cover of the obturator tendon, and form a fleshy bed, on which it lies; near the trochanter the fibres of the gemelli overlap the obturator tendon, and tend to cover its superficial surface. The tendon of the obturator internus should be freed from the gemelli for some little distance from its point of exit from the small sciatic foramen. It may then be divided and