214 INFERIOR EXTREMITY is a gap between the two portions of the muscle, and is situated in the distal third of the thigh. The adductor magnus has a double nerve supply. The fibres which spring from the pubic arch are supplied by the posterior branch of the obturator nerve. Those which arise from the ischial tuberosity are supplied by the sciatic nerve. Dissection.—The adductor magnus should now be detached from its origin, in order that the obturator externus muscle and the obturator artery may be more fully examined. M. Obturator Externus. — The obturator externus is a flat, fan-shaped muscle, which is placed over the anterior aspect of the obturator foramen of the hip bone. It springs from the medial half of the membrane which closes the foramen, and also from the medial and lower part of its bony margin (Fig. 81, p. 212). It proceeds posteriorly and laterally, below the neck of the femur and the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, and ends in a stout tendon which obtains insertion into the fossa trochanterica (Fig. 78, p. 209). This tendon will be examined in the dissection of the glutgeal region. The obturator externus is supplied by the posterior divisiott of the obturator nerve. Art. Obturatoria (Obturator Artery).—The obturator artery appears in the thigh through the upper part of the obturator foramen of the hip bone. It at once divides into two terminal branches, which diverge from each other and form an arterial circle upon the obturator membrane, under cover of the obturator externus. This muscle must therefore be detached in order that the vessels may be followed. Both branches give twigs to the neighbouring muscles, whilst the posterior brattch sends an articular tivig through the incisura acetabuli into the hip-joint. When the joint is opened this twig may be followed, in a well-injected subject, along the ligamentum teres into the head of the femur. Mm. Psoas Magnus and Iliacus.—These muscles arise within the abdomen and enter the thigh posterior to the inguinal ligament. A tendon appears on the lateral side of the psoas magnus, and into this the fibres of the iliacus are for the most part inserted. The conjoined tendon of the ilio- psoas is implanted into the lesser trochanter of the femur, but a certain proportion of the fleshy fibres of the iliacus obtain direct insertion into the body of the femur distal to that prominence (Fig. 78, p. 209).