499 ABDOMINAL CAVITY usually about from three to four inches in length, and takes a downward course from the under surface of the liver. Placed at its commencement in the epigastric region, it descends into the umbilical region, lying close to the medial side of the right lateral plane. Reaching the level of the third lumbar vertebra, it turns towards the spine and enters upon the third stage of its course. This second stage of the duodenum is immovably fixed in its position. It is covered by peritoneum only on its anterior and lateral surfaces, and is crossed by the commencement of the transverse colon, which, in this part of its course, does not possess a mesentery (Fig. 170). Behind, it rests upon the right border of the inferior vena cava and presents a variable relation to the renal vessels and the anterior surface of the right kidney in the neighbourhood of the hilum. To the right is the hepatic flexure of the colon; and to the left is the head of the pancreas, which is moulded upon the medial side of this part of the duodenum. The common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct open into the second part of the duodenum a little below its middle, at the junction of its medial and posterior aspects. Pars Horizontalis.—The third part of the duodenum crosses the posterior wall of the abdomen at the level of the third lumbar vertebra, its direction being from right to left and slightly upwards. To the right of the median plane it lies in the upper part of the umbilical region, but near its termination it rises above the subcostal plane into the epigastric region. Its anterior and inferior surfaces are covered by i)eritoneum. It lies behind the transverse colon, and it is crossed by the upper part of the root of the mesentery of the small intestine containing the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Posteriorly it rests against the right ureter, the right psoas magnus muscle, the right internal spermatic artery, the inferior vena cava, and the abdominal part of the aorta. Its upper border is in relation with the head of the pancreas and the inferior pancreatico-duodenal artery, and its lower border is in relation with coils of the jejunum. Pars Ascendens.—The fourth part of the duodenum passes upwards from the level of the upper part of the third lumbar vertebra to the duodeno-jejunal flexure. In front and on the left it is covered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the upper part of the jejunum. To the right it is in I—32 a