THE LEG 275 anteriorly between the peronasus longus muscle and the bone. The muscle must therefore be carefully turned aside from its origin in order that the nerve may be followed. It will be found to give off a small recurrent articular nerve to the knee-joint, and then to divide into the deep and superficial peroneal nerves. The recurrent branch accompanies the anterior recurrent tibial artery. It turns proximally in the fibres of the tibialis anterior. To the proximal part of this muscle it gives several twigs, whilst its terminal filaments gain the front of the knee-joint. The deep peroneal nerve pierces the proximal part of the extensor digitorum longus to reach the anterior region of the leg, where it has already been dissected. N. Peronaeus Superficialis (O.T. Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve). — This nerve proceeds distally in the substance of the peronasus longus. It reaches the interval between the two peronei muscles, gives branches to both, and, lastly, comes to lie between the peronaeus brevis and the extensor digitorum longus. In the distal third of the leg it pierces the fascia, becomes cutaneous, and divides into the medial and inter- mediate dorsal cutaneous nerves of the foot (p. 260). Medi.vl Crural Region. This region corresponds to the subcutaneous or medial surface of the tibia. The deep fascia blends with the peri- osteum of the bone, and the only structures which have to be examined are :— 1. The great saphenous vein. 2. The saphenous nerve. 3. The expanded tendons of insertion of the sartorius, semitendinosus, and gracilis. 4. Tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. S- Inferior medial genicular artery. 6. Inferior medial articular nerve. The great saphenous vein and the saphenous Jierves, as they pass from the anterior to the posterior crural region, cross obliquely over the distal third of the medial surface of the tibia. The insertions of the sartorius., gracilis, and semitendinosus into the proximal part of the medial surface of the tibia should