ABDOMINAL CAVITY 511 fibres may be seen by the naked eye when a longitudinal section is made through the pyloric canal in the plane of the two curvatures of the stomach (Fig. 196). Coats of the Duodenum.—In connection with the duo- denum, note that the plicte circulares begin one or two inches beyond the pylorus, about the commencement of its second part; that the mucous membrane is covered by villi; and that no solitary lymph nodules are to be seen. A segment of the wall of the first part of the duodenum should now be pinned down, with its mucous surface undermost, to the bottom of a cork- iined tray filled with water. Its coats may then be dissected. They are in all respects similar to those already examined in connection with the jejunum (p. 485). Ifthe dissection is carried on until the deep surface of the submucous coat is exposed by the removal of the entire muscular coat, a view of Brunner’s glands may be obtained. They appear as whitish specks, about the size of hemp-seed, in the submucous tissue. They are most numerous close to the pylorus, and gradually disappear about two inches beyond this. Lien (Spleen).—The spleen is a solid organ, which lies deeply in the left part of the costal zone, and is altogether out of sight in the undisturbed condition of the viscera, but it is exposed when the stomach is removed. It lies very obliquely in the abdominal cavity, its upper end being much nearer the medial plane and much further back than its lower end. Its long axis is directed from above downwards and laterally, and also to some extent forwards. For the most part it lies in the left hypochondrium, but its upper end extends medially beyond the left lateral plane, so that fully a third of the organ is situated in the epigastric region. The spleen when properly hardened in situ has the shape of an irregular tetrahedron. The upper extremity is curved to some extent forwards on itself, and approaches close to the left suprarenal gland. Of the four surfaces the most extensive is the facies diaphragmatica, which is convex and looks backwards and laterally. It rests upon the posterior part of the diaphragm, to the curvature of which it is adapted, and it is separated by the diaphragm from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is necessary also to remember that the pleura descends between this portion of the chest wall and the diaphragm, and comes to lie superficially to the greater part of the diaphragmatic surface of the spleen. The thin basal margin of the lung, which occupies the upper part of the pleural