472 ABDOMEN great omentum. The jejunum begins where the duodenum ends, viz. on the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra; and the ileum ends in the lower part of the right iliac region by joining the caecum or the commencement of the large intestine. The subdivision of the small intestine is of the most arbitrary kind. After mapping off the duodenum it is customary for anatomists to look upon the upper two- fifths of the remainder as being jejunum, and the lower three- fifths as being ileum. There is no hard-and-fast line of demarcation between the lower two divisions—the one passes insensibly into the other; and, as the chief distinction is to be found by an examination of the interior of the tube, the student will not in the meantime see much difference between them. To expose the commencement of the jejunum, the greater omentum with the enclosed transverse colon should be thrown upwards over the lower margin of the thoracic wall. The coils of the small intestine should then be drawn over to the right. The junction between the duodenum and the jejunum will now be seen on the left side of the vertebral column, at the level of the second lumbar vertebra. The termination of the duodenum is fixed, partly by its relation to the peritoneum and partly by the suspensory muscle of Treitz which will be described later (p. 500), and the commencement of the jejunum bends suddenly forwards and downwards upon it, forming the diiodeno-jejunal flexure. To bring the termination of the ileum into view, the coils of the intestine should be turned over to the left. The terminal part of the ileum, which almost invariably lies in the pelvis, has no great latitude of movement. It passes upwards across the iliac vessels and upon the psoas muscle, to join the ctecum at the level of the intertubercular plane, and close to the right lateral plane. The coils formed by the jejunum and ileum are suspended from the posterior wall of the abdomen by a wide fold of peritoneum, called the mese?itery. They are thus freely movable within the cavity. Owing to the manner in which the mesentery is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen (Fig. 183, p. 475), they tend to lie more in the left than in the right portion of the cavity, and they occupy the umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar, and iliac regions, filling up the greater part of the abdominal cavity below the transverse colon and its mesentery. A variable number of coils extend downwards