6o4 ABDOMEN which forms the anterior and greater part of the pelvic dia- phragm. It has a triple origin. The anterior fibres arise from the back of the pubic bone between the attachments of the visceral and parietal layers of the endo-pelvic fascia; the posterior fibres arise from the pelvic surface of the ischial spine; the intermediate fibres, constituting the greater part of the muscle, take origin in the angle between the visceral and parietal layers of the pelvic fascia. Insertion.—The miterior fibres pass downwards and back- wards. A few of them are inserted into the central point of the perineum, others are inserted into the wall of the anal canal, between the internal and external sphincters, and some join with the intermediate fibres., which sweep round into the angle between the posterior wall of the rectum and the upper end of the anal canal, where they unite with their fellows of the opposite side and form a strong muscular collar round the gut; the lower fibres of this group are inserted into the posterior wall of the anal canal between the two sphincters. The posterior fibres pass backwards and medially, and are inserted into the median ano-coccygeal raphe behind the rectum, and into the side of the lower part of the coccyx. The anterior fibres of the muscles of the opposite sides embrace the lateral surfaces of the prostate as they pass back- wards, and are frequently called the levatores prostata (Fig. 239). As the intermediate and posterior fibres pass to their insertions they support the infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder and the lateral walls of the rectum. When the muscle contracts, as a whole, it tends to elevate the pelvic viscera. The fibres inserted into the wall of the anal canal will pull that wall upwards over descending feces, and will therefore aid defecation. The fibres which form the collar- like loop round the angle between the rectum and the anal passage will, on contraction, increase that angle, and tend to prevent the passage of the contents of the rectum into the anal passage. M. Coccygeus.—This is a small triangular muscle which continues the plane of the pelvic diaphragm posterior to the levator ani. It arises from the pelvic surface of the ischial spine and the adjacent pelvic fascia, and, expanding as it passes medially, it is inserted into the margin of the last piece of the sacrum and the anterior surface of the upper part of the coccyx. Its anterior margin is continuous with the levator ani.