SHOULDER—SCAPUr.AR REGION 59 separated from the teres major by the long head of the triceps brachii. The teres minor is supplied by a branch from the axillary 7ierve. It is an adductor and lateral rotator of the upper extremity. M. Infraspinatus.—This muscle arises from the whole of the infraspinous fossa, with the exception of a small part of it near the neck of the scapula. It also derives fibres from the fascia which covers it. Its tendon of insertion is closely adherent to the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and is attached to the middle impression on the greater tubercle of the humerus (Fig. 36, p. 84). It is supplied by the suprascapular nerve, and is an adductor and lateral rotator of the upper extremity. M. Subscapularis.—The subscapularis muscle arises from the whole of the subscapular fossa, with the exception of a small portion near the neck of the scapula ] it also takes origin from the groove which is present on the costal aspect of the axillary border of the bone (Fig. 33, p. 79). Its origin is strengthened by tendinous intersections, which are attached to the ridges which are present on the costal surface of the scapula. The fleshy fibres thus derived' converge upon a stout tendon, which is inserted into the smaller tubercle of the humerus; a few of the lower fibres, however, gain independent insertion into the body of the humerus below the tubercle. As the muscle proceeds laterally to its insertion, it passes under an arch formed by the coracoid process and the con- joined origin of the short head of the biceps brachii and the coraco-brachialis. By dissecting between the upper border of the muscle and the root of the coracoid process, a bursa of some size will be discovered. This bursa communicates with the cavity of the shoulder-joint through an aperture in the capsule: in other words, its walls are directly continuous with the synovial membrane of the capsule. This can readily be ascertained by making an incision into it. An instrument can then be passed into the joint. The subscapularis is supplied by the upper and loiver subscapular nerves. It is an adductor and medial rotator of the up[>er extremity. Dissection.—The transverse scapular artery and suprascapular nerve nuist now he followed to their distribution on the dorsum of the scapula, they have already been traced to the superior border of the scapula. Divide the infraspinatus muscle about an inch and a half from its insertion,