PECTORAL REGION 9 patch of coloured integument which is called the areola mamma:. Within the nipple, and also subjacent to the areola, there is no fat. A curious change of colour occurs in this region during the second month of pregnancy. At that time the delicate pink colour of the skin of the nipple and areola of the virgin becomes converted to brown, by the deposition of pigment, and it never again resumes its original appearance. The mamma extends, in a horizontal direction, from the side of the sternum to very nearly the mid-axillary line on the side of the thorax, and, in a vertical direction, from the second costal arch above to the sixth costal cartilage below. About two-thirds of the gland are placed upon the pectoralis major muscle, whilst the remaining part, which corresponds to its inferior and lateral third, extends beyond the anterior fold of the axilla, and lies upon the serratus anterior muscle. From the part which lies in relation to the lower border of the pectoralis major a prolongation extends upwards into the axilla, and reaches as high as the third rib. The mamma is not isolated by a capsule from the surrounding fatty tissue of the superficial fascia. Pervading it, and supporting the true glandular substance, there are strands or trabeculae of connective tissue which constitute its stroma or framework, and these are directly continuous with the fibrous tissue which supports the fat of the superficial fascia. The stroma and gland-substance together constitute a conical mass termed the corpus mamma. Processes pro- ject out from both the surface and margins of the corpus mammae, and in the hollows between these projections is deposited the fat which gives the smooth contour to the organ. Many of the processes which extend from the super- ficial surface are attached to the deep surface of the skin. 'I’hey form the so-called liga??ients of Cooper. The gland substance is arranged in lobes and lobules, and the ducts issuing from these converge towards the areola. Some fifteen or more lactiferous ducts pass towards the base of the nipple. Subjacent to the areola the ducts expand into fusiform dilatations termed the sinus lactiferi., and then, contracting, they traverse the substance of the nipple, upon the summit of which they open. In a well-injected subject twigs from the intercostal arteries, and also from the perforathig branches of the