INFERIOR EXTREMITY 268 third of the leg, where the muscles give place to their tendons, the artery comes nearer to the surface. In this part of its course it rests upon the tibia and is overlapped on the lateral side by the extensor hallucis longus. Immediately proximal to the ankle-joint the tendon of that muscle crosses the artery and comes to lie on its medial side. Two vencE co7uites closely accompany the anterior tibial artery, and send short communicating branches both anterior and posterior to it. The deep peroneal nerve is also intimately related to it. It joins the artery a short distance below the knee and soon takes up a position anterior to the vessel. Near the ankle-joint the nerve, as a rule, assumes a place on the lateral side of the artery. On the front of the leg the anterior tibial artery gives off the following branches:— 1. Muscular. 3. Medial anterior malleolar. 2. Anterior recurrent tibial. 4. Lateral anterior malleolar. The muscular branches are numerous and come off at irregular points along the whole length of the artery. They supply the muscles on the ajiterior cru7-al regio7i. Arteria Recurrens Tibialis Anterior.—This small vessel springs from the anterior tibial immediately after it reaches the front of the leg. It turns proximally on the lateral condyle of the tibia in the fibres of the tibialis anterior muscle. Its terminal twigs reach the front of the knee-joint, and anastomose with the inferior genicular branches from the popliteal artery. Malleolar Arteries.—These arteries take origin immediately above the ankle-joint. The arteria 7/ialleola7-is a7iterior lateralis is the larger of the two, and passes laterally under cover of the tendons of the extensor digitorum longus and peronreus tertius, to reach the lateral surface of the lateral malleolus. It anastomoses with the perforating branch of the peroneal artery and with the tarsal arteries. The a7ieria malleolaris anterior 7/iedialis runs medially under cover of the tendons of the extensor hallucis longus and tibialis anterior. It inosculates with branches from the posterior tibial artery. Arteria Dorsalis Pedis.—The dorsal artery of the foot is the continuation of the anterior tibial. It begins in front of the ankle-joint at a point midway between the two malleoli, and it extends forwards, upon the forepart of the talus, the