185 THE THIGH Dissection.—The femoral sheath should be opened, in order that the arrangement of parts inside may be displayed. Make three vertical and parallel incisions through the anterior wall—one over the femoral artery which occupies the lateral part of the sheath, another over the femoral vein, and the third about half an inch medial to the second. The first two should begin at the level of the inguinal ligament, and should extend distally for an inch and a half. The most medial of the three incisions should commence at the same point, but should only be carried distally for half an inch or less. Interior of the Femoral Sheath.—A little dissection will show that the sheath is subdivided by two vertical partitions into three compartments. The femoral artery and lumbo- inguinal nerve occupy the most lateral cotnpartment; the femoral vein fills up the intermediate cotnpartment ■, whilst in the most medial compartment is lodged a little loose areolar tissue, a small lymph gland, and some lymph vessels. This last compartment, from its relation to femoral hernia, has the special name of canalis fetnoralis applied to it. Canalis Femoralis (Femoral Canal).—The boundaries and extent of this canal must be very thoroughly studied. The best way to do this is to introduce the little finger into the canal and push it gently upwards. The length of the canal is not nearly so great as that of the other two compartments. Indeed it is not more than half an inch long. Inferiorly it is closed, and it rapidly diminishes in width from above downwards. Its proximal aperture lies on the lateral side of the base of the lacunar ligament, and is called the annulus femoralis. It is closed by the closely applied extra-peritoneal fatty tissue of the abdominal wall. The parts which immediately surround this opening can be readily detected with the finger: laterally the femoral vein, medially the sharp crescentic base of the lacunar ligament, anteriorly the inguinal ligament, and pos- teriorly the pubic bone covered by the pectineus muscle. The portion of the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue which closes the ring is called the septum femorale. On the abdominal surface of the septum femorale is the peritoneal lining of the abdominal cavity, and when examined from above both are seen to be slightly depressed into the opening so as to produce the appearance of a dimple. Femoral Hernia.—Femoral hernia is the name applied to a pathological condition which con.sists in the protrusion of some of the contents of the abdominal cavity into the region of the thigh. In their descent they