198 INFERIOR EXTREMITY which is placed deep to the sartorius muscle as it lies over the adductor canal (Hunter’s). The twig from the obturator nerve appears at the medial border of the adductor longus. The nervus saphenus (O.T. inte?'7ial sapJmious ?ierve) is the longest branch of the femoral nerve. It springs from the posterior division of that nerve and runs distally on the lateral side of the femoral artery. Entering the adductor canal, with the femoral vessels, it comes to lie anterior to the artery. At the distal end of the canal it emerges, by passing under cover of the thickened border of the fibrous expansion which stretches between the vastus medialis and the adductor muscles, and, accompanied by the saphenous branch of the arteria genu suprema, it escapes from under cover of the sartorius and pierces the deep fascia at the medial side of the knee. It gives off the infrapatellar branch after it quits the adductor canal. This branch pierces the sartorius and appears on the surface of the fascia lata on the medial side of the knee. Several large branches of the posterior part of the femoral nerve enter the four factors which compose the great quadriceps extensor muscle of the thigh. From certain of these, articular filaments are given to the hip and knee- joints. The branch to the rectus fetnoris sinks into the deep surface of that muscle. It supplies an articular twig to the hip-joint. The large branch to the vastus 7nedialis accompanies the saphenous nerve and enters the proximal part of the adductor canal. It can readily be distinguished from its sinking into the medial aspect of the vastus medialis about the middle of the thigh. In the substance of the muscle it extends distally, and near the knee joins the articular branch of the arteria genu suprema. It gives an articular nerve to the synovial lining of the knee-joint. The 7ie7-ve to the vastus lateralis is associated with the descending branch of the lateral circumflex artery. Very frequently it gives an articular twig to the knee-joint. The nerves to the vastus i7iter7nedius are two or three in number and they sink into its anterior surface. The most medial of them is a long slender nerve, which can be traced distally under the anterior border of the vastus medialis to the articular muscle of the knee. Its terminal twigs are given to the synovial stratum of the knee-joint. One filament then from the femoral nerve goes to the