INFERIOR EXTREMITY 28o from the posterior aspect of the distal end of the femur. These heads have been already studied in connection with the pop- liteal space, which they bound in its distal part. The lateral head springs from an impression on the lateral surface of the lateral condyle of the femur, and also from a small portion of the popliteal surface of the bone immediately proximal to the condyle. The 7>iedialhead takes origin from the proximal part of the medial condyle, and likewise from a rough ridge on the adjacent part of the planum popliteum. The two fleshy bellies swell out as they descend, and end, near the middle of the leg, in a thin aponeurotic tendon. They do not blend with each other. They are usually separated by a furrow, at the bottom of which the flattened tendon, to which the fasciculi of both heads are attached, may be seen. The medial head is the more bulky of the two, and it extends more distally than the lateral head. The flattened tendon in which they terminate narrows slightly as it descends, and, a short distance distal to the middle of the leg, it blends with the stouter tendon of the soleus to form the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). The gastrocnemius is supplied by the tibial nerve. Dissection.—The medial head of the gastrocnemius may be divided at the level of the knee-joint. The sural arteries from the popliteal trunk, and the branches of supply from the tibial nerve which enter the heads of the gastrocnemius, can thus be preserved. On rais- ing the proximal portion of the medial head, a bursa which intervenes between it and the condyle of the femur will be brought into view. On opening this with the knife it will, in all probability, be found to com- municate with the interior of the knee-joint. The smooth and tendinous opposed surfaces of the gastrocnemius and the soleus, and the narrow tendon of the plantaris, which passes distally and medially between them, are displayed when the medial head of the gastrocnemius is drawn aside. M. Plantaris.—The small fleshy belly of the plantaris is not more than three or four inches long. It lies along the medial I side, and partly under cover of the lateral head of the gastro- cnemius, and it arises from the popliteal surface of the femur i immediately proximal to the lateral condyle. It ends in a » slender tendon which is remarkable for its great length. This i proceeds distally and medially, between the gastrocnemius i and soleus, and then runs along the medial side of the tendo \ calcaneus (Achillis) to gain insertion into the posterior aspect of the calcaneus. It is frequently closely connected with I the tendo calcaneus, and sometimes becomes blended with 1