ABDOMINAL WALL 389 1—25 h On the left side of the body the parts, below the horizontal line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the lateral border of the rectus, along which the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle has been divided, should be preserved intact for the special study of the structures associated with inguinal hernia. On the right side of the body divide the lower part of the aponeurosis along the lateral border of the rectus to the pubes. This incision should pass to the medial side of the medial crus of the subcutaneous inguinal ring, so that this opening may be preserved. The triangular flap of aponeurosis may now be thrown downwards and laterally. By this proceeding the inguinal ligament, the entire extent of the internal oblique muscle, and the cremaster muscle are displayed for study. Ligamentum Inguinale (O.T. Poupart’s Ligament).—The inguinal ligament is merely the thickened lower border of the aponeurosis of the external oblique folded backwards upon itself. It thus presents a rounded surface towards the thigh and a grooved surface towards the abdominal cavity. The manner in which it is attached by its lateral and medial extremities deserves the close study of the dissector. Laterally it is fixed to the anterior superior spine of the ilium; tnedially it has a double attachment—viz. (i) to the pubic tubercle, which may be considered as its attachment proper; (2) through the medium of the lacunar ligament {Gimbertiat's') to the pecten pubis (O.T. ilio-pectineal line). The inguinal ligament does not pursue a straight course between its iliac and pubic attachments. It describes a curve, the convexity of which is directed downwards and laterally towards the thigh. By its inferior border it gives attachment to the fascia lata. When this is divided, the inguinal ligament at once loses its curved direction. Ligamentum Lacunare (O.T. Gimbernat’s Ligament) (Fig. 145).—This is a triangular process of aponeurotic fascia. Raise the spermatic cord, place the finger behind the medial end of the inguinal ligament, and press downwards. The structure upon which the finger rests is the ligament in question, and the student should note that at this point it offers a barrier to the passage of the finger into the thigh. With the handle of the knife its shape and connections can be easily defined. Its a.pex is fixed to the pubic tubercle; by otie margin it is attached to the medial part of the inguinal ligament; by its other margin it is inserted for the distance of an inch into the pecten pubis. Its base is sharp, crescentic, and free, and is directed laterally towards the femoral sheath. The dissector should thoroughly realise that the lacunar ligament is not an independent structure.