345 MALE PERINEUM How to verify these facts.—The student can verify these facts in two ways, viz.—(i) by inflating the pouch with air, and (2) by dissection. Make a longitudinal incision, large enough to admit the nozzle of the bellows (or better still an injection pipe fitted to a bicycle-pump), into the superficial fascia towards the back part of the pouch and a little to one side of the middle line. This cut must be carried through the fascia until the fibres of the superficial perineal muscles are exposed. In using the pump the margins of the opening into the pouch must be held tightly around the nozzle of the pipe. The air which is introduced passes forwards, and is first confined to one side of the pouch. Reaching the scrotum, however, where the septum is incomplete, it forces its way across the middle line, and inflates the opposite side of the pouch. The pouch is now rendered prominent, and the attachments of the fascia become very evident. The air cannot pass into the rectal triangle owing to the union of the fascia of Colles with the base of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ; it cannot pass down the medial aspect of the thighs on account of the attachment of the fascia to the sides of the pubic arch ; it can only force its way forwards under the superficial fascia and dartos muscle of the scrotum, and from this on to the penis and along the spermatic cords to the anterior aspect of the abdomen. By this means the dissector obtains a very striking view of the course which would be taken by urine escaping from a rupture in the urethra below the urogenital diaphragm. The attachments of the fascia of Colles are so important that the student should also test them by dissection. To do this it is necessary to make two incisions through the superficial fascia. Enter the knife in the middle line at the root of the scrotum, and carry it posteriorly and laterally to the tuber ischii on each side of the body. A central /\-shaped flap and two lateral flaps of fascia are thus marked out. By raising and turning back- wards the central portion, the septum of the pouch is brought into view, and the attachment of the fascia to the base of the urogenital diaphragm is demonstrated. When the lateral flaps are turned aside each will be seen to be firmly fixed to the border of the pubic arch. In effecting this dissection the utmost care is demanded on the part of the student. In the areolar tissue immediately subjacent to the superficial fascia are the superficial perineal vessels and scrotal nerves, which are certain to be injured, or perhaps even reflected with the fascia, unless the greatest caution be exercised. Anal Triangle. The dissection of this portion of the perineal space will disclose the following parts :— 1. The external sphincter ani muscle. 2. The anal canal covered by the levator ani muscle and the anal fascia. 3. The parietal or obturator layer of pelvic fascia. 4. The lower border of the glutccus maximus muscle and the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum (O.T. great sciatic). 5. The coccygeus muscle. 6. The inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. 7. The perineal artery. 8. The perineal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. 9. The perineal nerve and its branches. 10. The perforating cutaneous branch of the second and third sacral nerves.