XXXIX. GAS WASHING AND IRONING are also much easier and more effectually performed bv means of Gas than by Coal. The whole of the weekly family wash of say eight persons can be readily done in two or three hours, at a consumption of from 30 to 50 feet of Gas, which at 3/6 per 1,000 feet; cost from l^d. to 2d. By means of the “ Rapid Washer,” which we have just brought out, a day’s washing is reduced at least one-third. The clothes are more thoroughly cleansed, and are not worn out by constant rubbing. The contents of a medium sized clothes basket can be washed at one time, and merely require well soaking for about an hour and a half in warm water, the gas being lit when the clothes are put in ; then take out and soap all over, put into the drum and turn round slowly for about 15 minutes. The result will be really surprising. The clothes, after being well rinsed, will be found, no matter how dirty when first soaped, to be beautifully clean. They can be dried, if fine, out of doors ; or, if wet, in a special Gas Stove Dryer which we are now making, and put ready for gas ironing. Gas Ironing possesses many distinct advantages over the old process. Our Gas Irons are heated by an atmospheric flame, which plays right inside the iron, and keeps it always ready for use at a uniform temperature, and without the possibility of any dirt collecting on the face of the iron, and thus defacing the linen. They are easily fixed, a special double tap being fixed to the kitchen bracket or pendant, which provides a special tap for the iron, without interfering with the lighting burner. From this tap a length of India-rubber tubing should be run up to the ceiling, and suspended from there direct to the Gas Iron. This arrangement prevents the tubing from kinking, and keeps it out of the way. (We are now supplying a wire coil to prevent kinking with each iron—6d. extra). Gas Heating.—We have now shown how gas can be a most effective domestic servant as a Cooker, Washer, and Ironer • but there still remains one most important field—that of Gas Heating, in which gas fires and stoves save quite as much labour as in these other directions. It is only right, however, to preface our remarks by stating that Gas is not so cheap as coal cost for cost, in living or sitting rooms; in these cases it depends upon its adoption solely on its convenience and cleanliness. S 2