CHAPTER XXXVII. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON ICES AND CONFECTIONERY. ICES. 2282. Ice.—Ice has of late years become very cheap and easily obtained, so that it is constantly used in the kitchen, not only to prepare ices of cream and water with various flavouring, but also to assist in many processes of cookery. At one time we were chiefly dependent upon our home ponds and lakes for our supply of ice, which was stored through the winter in immense ice-houses, still to be seen in the grounds of most old-fashioned mansions. But such rough ice is now- a-days only used on the fishmongers’ stalls, and the ice-house stands empty, while a weekly, or bi-weekly, block of ice comes from the importers to replenish the refrigerator with which a cook now thinks it nearly impossible to dispense. Most of the ice we use comes from Norway, and is brought to London by water. Very often the passenger on a “ below-bridge ” steamer is conscious of a sudden blast of cold air, and, looking round, he sees men staggering from ship to shore with great blocks of ice on their shoulders. Hundreds of tons are imported annually. The chief thing to remember in the storage of ice is that it must be in such a position that the water drains away from it. It melts in no time if it lies in the bottom of a basin. Two sticks over a basin, for the block of ice to rest upon them, is all that is required. It should also be wrapped up in thick flannel to keep the cold in. Another thing that is often forgotten is, that so long as any of the ice remains unmelted the temperature of the whole does not rise above freezing point, so that it is not necessary to renew the ice before it is all melted. 2283. Freezing Mixtures.—Whenever any solid substance becomes liquid it absorbs heat in order to accomplish that change. This absorption of heat, which accompanies the liquefaction of solids, is the basis of action of all freezing mixtures. The commonest of such mixture is snow and salt, or ice and salt; there both substances become liquid, each by the action of the other. In all freezing mixtures there is, at least, one solid ingredient, which by the action of the rest is reduced to a liquid state. The degree of cold produced by the melting varies within a very wide range. Two parts of snow, or of powdered ice, to one part of bay salt is the mixture employed almost invariably in the kitchen. It is cheap, harmless, and easily ob- tained, and it lowers the temperature many degrees below that of freezing water. Freezing mixtures are sold to be .mixed with a certain proportion of water, some of which are advertised to serve for any number of times, if, after each time of using, they are evaporated to dryness, ready to melt again. But they waste in