n 33 Seasonable at any time. 2516. -QUEEN CAKES. Queen Cakes. Time.—1£ to 2 hours. Average Cost, is. 4d. SMALL POUND CAKES. Seasonable at any time. Seasonable at any time. 2515. _A pavini cake. Ingredients.—^ lb. of flour, £ lb. of ground rice, i lb. of raisins, stoned and cut into small pieces, i lb. of currants, £ It, of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, £ lb. of sifted loaf sugar, £ nutmeg grated, 1 pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Stone and cut the raisins into small pieces; wash, pick and dry the currants; melt the butter to a cream, but with- out oiling it; blanch and chop the almonds, and grate the nutmeg. When all these ingredients are thus pre- pared, mix them well together ; make the milk warm, stir in the soda, and with this liquid make the whole into a paste. Butter a mould, rather more than half fill it with the dough, and bake the cake in a moderate oven from i£ to 2 . hours, or less time should it be made into 2 cakes. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, £ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, £ lb. of currants, 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder, essence of lemon or almonds to taste. Mode.—Work the butter to a cream ; dredge in the flour, add the sugar and currants, and mix the ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, mix them with the cream and flavouring, and stir these to the flour, beat the paste well for 10 minutes; add the baking-powder, put it into small buttered pans, and bake the cake from a quarter to half an hour. Grated lemon-rind may be substituted for the lemon and almond flavouring, which will make the cakes equally nice. Time.—J to £ hour. Average Cost, is. 9d. 2517. -RAISIN CAKES. Ingredients.—1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of fine flour, 1 lb. of powdered white sugar, 6 eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 teaspoonful of nutmeg, £ tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, 1 lb. of stoned raisins. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, then add the flour to it, stir the sugar and yolks of eggs together, whip the whites to a stiff froth with the brandy, then beat them into the flour, &c. Add the soda and nutmeg, and beat till the whole is light and creamy-looking; then add the stoned and chopped raisins. Bake in a buttered paper-lined tin for an hour and a quarter in hot oven. Time.—ii hour. Average Cost, 3s.