Nourishing Blancmange. 1237 with water, cold or lukewarm, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour or rather longer. Then put the whole into a saucepan and let it cook, just enough to colour it but no more—3 to 5 minutes is quite long enough, and on no account should it be cooked too much. Mutton broth can be made the same way. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 8d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. Note.—When required of greater strength, use half the above quantity of water ; or even less, when the patient is able to take a spoonful only at a time. 2786. —NOURISHING BLANCMANGE. (Burdett.) Ingredients.—oz. of isinglass, 1 quart of new milk, \ pint of cream, sugar, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Soak the isinglass in the milk, then boil it, stirring till the isinglass is all dissolved. Add sugar and any flavouring that may be preferred with a quarter of a pint of cream. Stir it again till it nearly boils, strain it, keep stirring till it is cool then put it into a mould. Note.—Swinborne’s Patent Refined Isinglass is the best for all confectionery purposes, being perfectly pure, free from all taste or smell, and of uniform strength—a most important matter to the cook, as all other kinds of isinglass vary so much in quality and strength that it is difficult to give the exact propor- tions to be used, and few things are so provoking as to find a jelly too strong or too weak when turned out of a mould. Russian and Brazil were the kinds of isinglass formerly in use, but for all confectionery purposes they are inferior to Swinborne’s. 2787. —BOILED OR BAKED FLOUR. Mode.—Tie some flour in a cloth as if it were a pudding, put it in boil- ing water and boil it for 3 hours. Then scrape down the inner part of the ball and use a tablespoonful in a pint of milk to make gruel. Or put the flour on a tin in the oven, and bake it till it is alight brown. Both these preparations are more digestible than unboiled flour. 2788.—CALF’S FOOT BLANCMANGE. Ingredients.—1 calf’s foot, 1 quart of milk, 1 egg, sugar, nutmeg and lemon, or seasoning to taste. Mode.-—Get a calf’s foot that has been already cooked, such as is sold by the tripe-dressers, and put it on the fire with milk enough to cover it, a strip of lemon-peel, a piece of nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Let it cook very slowly for 3 or 4 hours, and then strain it. While still hot stir in the yolk of an egg, and set it in small moulds. This blancmange can be made savoury by using a little salt, peppercorns, parsley, nutmeg or cloves,