go6 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Time.—From I to i| hour to boil the apples ; £ hour the jelly. Aver- age Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for pint mould. Seasonable from July to March. 1933.—A PRETTY DISH OF APPLES AND RICE. (Fr.—Pommes au Riz.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, the rind of ^ a lemon, sugar to taste, £ saltspoonful of salt, 8 apples, lb. of sugar, | pint of water, £ pint of boiled custard, No. 1969. Mode.—Flavour the milk with lemon-rind, by boiling them together for a few minutes; then take out the peel, and put in the rice, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely, and boil gently until the rice is quite soft; then let it cool. In the meantime pare, quarter and core the apples, and boil them until tender in a syrup made with sugar and water in the above proportion ; and, when soft, lift them out on a sieve to drain. Now put a middling-sized gallipot in the centre of a dish; lay the rice all round till the top of the gallipot is reached ; smooth the rice with the back of a spoon, and stick the apples into it in rows, one row sloping to the right and the next to the left. Set it in the oven to colour the apples; then, when required for table, remove the gallipot, garnish the rice with pre- served fruits, and pour in the middle sufficient custard, made by recipe No. 1969, to be level with the top of the rice, and serve hot. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples; f hour to simmer the rice ; \ hour to bake. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. 1934.-APPLES A LA PORTUGAISE. Ingredients.—8 good boiling-apples, | pint of water, 6 oz. of sugar, a layer of apple marmalade, No. 1931, 8 preserved cherries, garnishing of apricot jam. Mode.—Peel the apples and, with a vegetable-cutter, push out the cores; boil them in the above proportion of sugar and water, without being too much done, and take care they do not break. Have ready a white apple marmalade, made by recipe No. 1931; cover the bottom of the dish with this, level it, and lay the apples in a sieve to drain; pile them neatly on the marmalade, making them high in the centre, and place a preserved cherry in the middle of each. Garnish with strips of candied citron or apricot jam, and the dish is ready for table,