348 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Seasonable at any time. ingredients. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then strain the sauce over the chopped sardines. This is a capital fish sauce. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 769.-8AUCE A L’AURORE. (For Trout, Soles, &c.) Ingredients.— The spawn of 1 lobster, 1 oz. of butter, £ pint ot bechamel, No. 665 ; the juice of | lemon, a high seasoning of salt and cayenne. Mode.—Take the spawn and pound it in a mortar with the butter until quite smooth, and work it through a hair-sieve. Put the bechamel into a stewpan, add the pounded spawn, the lemon-juice, which must be strained, and a plentiful seasoning of cayenne and salt; let it just simmer, but do not allow it to boil, or the beautiful red colour of the sauce will be spoiled. A small spoonful of anchovy essence may be added at pleasure. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, gd. Sufficient for a pair of large soles. Seasonable at any time. 770.—SHARP SAUCE. (Fr.— Sauce Piquante.) (For Cutlets, Roast Meats, &c.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 1 small carrot, 6 shalots, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 4 a bay-leaf, 2 slices of lean ham, 2 cloves, 6 peppercorns, 1 blade of mace, 3 whole allspice, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, £ pint of stock, No. 272 or 273, 1 small lump of sugar, 4 salt- spoonful of cayenne, salt to taste. Mode.—Put into a stewpan the butter, with the carrot and shalots, both of which must be cut into small slices; add the herbs, bay-leaf, spices and ham (which must be minced rather finely), and let these in- gredients simmer over a slow fire, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brown glaze. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and put in the remaining ingredients. Simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour, skim off every particle of fat, strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve very hot. Care must be taken that this sauce be not made too acid, although it should possess a sharpness indicated by its name. Of course the above quantity of vinegar may be increased or diminished at pleasure, according to taste. Time.—Altogether | hour. Average Cost, xod. Sufficient for a medium-sized dish of cutlets.