Evenings at Home. 15 are provided with partners. A gentle hint from the hostess, conveyed in a quiet, ladylike manner, that certain ladies have remained unengaged during several dances, is sure not to be neglected by any gentleman Thus will be studied the comfort and enjoyment of the guests, and no lady, in leaving the house, will be able to feel the chagrin and disappointment of not having been invited to dance during the whole of the evening. Beside her other cares, the mistress has frequently the added duties of a chaperone either of her own or some friend’s daughters. With- out making any vexatious regulations, or preventing the legitimate enjoyments of her charges, she must be able to ensure their doing nothing that is either outre or improper. At a ball she will take especial care that her charges always know where to find her, though no reasonable chaperone will expect a girl to be always with her. 37. Departure.—When any of the carriages of the guests are announced, or the time for their departure arrives, they should make a slight intimation to the hostess, without, however, exciting any observation that they are about to depart. If this cannot be done, however, without creating too much bustle, it will be better for the visitors to retire quietly, without taking their leave. During the course of the week, the hostess will expect to receive from every guest a call, where it is possible, or cards expressing the gratification experienced from her entertainment. This attention is due to every lady for the pains and trouble she has been at, and tends to promote social, kindly feelings. Having thus discoursed of parties of pleasure, it will be an interesting change to return to the more domestic business of the house, although all the details we have been giving of dinner-parties, balls, and the like appertain to the department of the mistress. Without a knowledge of the etiquette to be observed on these occasions, a mistress would be unable to enjoy and appreciate those friendly pleasant meetings which give, as it were, a fillip to life, and make the quiet, happy home of an English gentlewoman appear the more delightful and enjoyable. In their proper places, all that is necessary to be known respecting the dishes and appearance of the breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper tables will be set forth in this work. 38. A Family Dinner at Dome, compared with either giving or going to a dinner-party is, of course, of much more frequent appearance, and many will say, of much greater importance. Both, however, have to be considered with a view to their nicety and enjoyment; and the latter more particularly with reference to economy. These points will be especially noted in the following pages on “ Household Cookery.” Here we will only say, that for both mistress and ser- vants, as well in small as large households, it will be found by far the better plan to cook and serve the dinner, and to lay the tablecloth and the sideboard, with the same cleanliness, neatness and scrupulous exactness, whether it be for the mistress herself alone, a small family, or for “ company.” If this rule be strictly adhered to, all will find themselves increase in managing skill; whilst a knowledge of their daily duties will become familiar, and enable them to meet difficult occa- sions with ease, and overcome any amount of obstacles. 39. Evenings at Home.—Of the manner of passing evenings at home, there is none pleasanter than in such recreative enjoyments as those which relax the mind from its severer duties, whilst they stimulate it with a gentle delight. Where there are young people forming a part of the evening circle, interesting and agreeable pastime should especially be promoted. It is of incalculable benefit to them that their homes should possess all the attractions of healthful amusement, com- fort and happiness ; for if they do not find pleasure there, they will seek it else- where. It ought, therefore, to enter into the domestic policy of every parent to make her children feel that home is the happiest place in the world. To imbue them with the delicious home-feeling is one of the choicest gifts a parent can