Beef Sausages. 415 926.—THE DUTCH WAY TO SALT BEEF. (Fr.—Boeuf Sale a I’Hollandaise.) Ingredients.—10 lbs. of lean beef, 1 lb. of treacle, 1 oz. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt. Mode.—Rub the beef well with the treacle, and let it remain for 3 days, turning and rubbing jt often ; then wipe it, pound the salt and salt- petre very fine, rub these well in, and turn it every day for 10 days. Roll it up tightly in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; have it smoked, and turn it upside down every day. Boil it, and, on taking it out of the pot, put a heavy weight on it to press it. Time.—17 days. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. Seasonable at any time. 927.—BEEF SAUSAGES. (Fr— Saucisses de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—I lb. of suet, 2 lbs. of lean beef; seasoning to taste of Salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Mode.—Clear the suet from skin, and chop that and the beef as finely as possible ; season with pepper, salt and spices, and mix the whole well together. Make into flat cakes, or put into the skins prepared for the purpose, and fry of a nice brown. Many persons pound the meat in a mortar after it is chopped; but this is not necessary when the meat is minced finely. . > Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s. 84. Seasonable at any time. 928.—BEEF STEAK. (Fr.—Bifteck Farci et Roti.) {Rolled, Roasted, and Stuffed.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of rump-steak, forcemeat No. 629, pepper and salt to taste, clarified butter. Mode.—Have the steaks cut rather thick from a well-hung rump of beef, and sprinkle over them a seasoning of pepper and salt. Make a forcemeat by recipe No. 629 ; spread it over half of the steak ; roll it up, bind and skewer it firmly, that the forcemeat may not escape, and roast it before a nice clear fire for about one-and-a-half hour, or rather longer, should the roll be very large and thick. Keep it constantly basted with butter, and serve with brown gravy, some of which must be poured round the steak, and the remainder sent to table in a tureen. Time.—1} hour. Average Cost, is. to is. 2d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable all the year, but best in winter.