Omelets. 943 spread too much, and taste of the outside. It should also not be greasy, burnt, or too much done, and should be cooked over a gentle fire, that the whole of the substance may be heated without drying up the outside. Omelets are sometimes served with gravy ; but this should never be poured over them, but served in a tureen, as the liquid causes the omelet to become heavy and flat, instead of eating light and soft. In making the gravy, the flavour should not overpower that of the omelet, and should be thickened with arrowroot or rice flour. Time.—With 6 eggs, in a frying-pan 18 or 20 inches round, 4 to 6 minutes. Average Cost, iod. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The following anecdote, illustrative of the importance of an omelet, introduces the chef d'ceuvre of French omelets :—“ Every one knows,” says Brillat Savarin, in his Physiology of Taste, “that for twenty years Madame Recamiei was the most beautiful woman in Paris. It is also well known that she was exceedingly charitable, and took a great interest in every benevolent work. Wishing to consult the Cure of respecting the working of an institution, she went to his house at five o’clock in the afternoon, and was much astonished at finding him already at his dinner-table, Madame Recamier wished to retire, but the Cure would not hear of it. A neat white cloth covered the table ; some good old wine sparkled in a crystal decanter ; the porcelain was of the best; the plates had heaters of boiling water beneath them ; a neatly-costumed maid- servant was in attendance. The repast was a compromise between frugality and luxury. The crawfish-soup had just been r-emoved, and there was on the table a salmon-trout, an omelet and a salad. • My dinner will tell you,’ said the worthy Cure, with a smile, 1 that it is fast-day, according to our Church’s regu- lations.’ Madame Recamier and her host attacked the trout, the sauce served with which betrayed a skilful hand, the countenance of the Cure the while showing satisfaction. And now they fell upon the omelet, which was round, sufficiently thick, and cooked, so to speak, to a hair’s breadth. As the spoon entered the omelet, a thick rich juice issued from it, pleasant to the eye as well as to the smell ; the dish became full of it; and our fair friend owns that, between the perfume and the sight, it made her mouth water. ‘ It is an omelette au than ’ (that is to say, a tunny omelet), said the Cure, noticing, with the greatest delight, the emotion of Madame Recamier, ‘ and few people taste it without lavishing praises on it.’ ‘ It surprises me not at all,’ returned the beauty,; ' never has so enticing an omelet met my gaze at any of our lay tables.’ 1 My cook understands them well, I think.’ ‘ Yes,’ added Madame, 1 I never ate anything so delightful.’ Then came the salad, which Savarin recommends to all who place confidence in him. It refreshes without exciting; and he has a theory that it makes people younger. Amidst pleasant converse the dessert arrived. It consisted of three apples, cheese, and a plate of preserves ; and then upon a little round table was served the Mocha coffee for which France has been, and is, so justly famous. . ' I never,’, said the Cure, 1 take spirits ; I always offer liqueurs to my guests, but reserve the use of them myself, to my old age, if it should please Providence to grant me that.’ Finally, the charming Madame Recamier took her leave, and told all her friends of the delicious omelet which she had seen and partaken of.” And Brillat Savarin, in his capacity as the Layard of the concealed treasures of Gastronomia, has succeeded in withdrawing from obscurity the details of the preparation of