Pure Air, 1563 When giddiness or weakness with heat about the head come on, and an attack 0ujSerii0US na*-ure's threatened, the patient should be at once removed to a cool, shady place, and the head, neck and chest rubbed with small pieces of ice, so as to reduce the temperature. Extreme cold is no less fatal in its effects than extreme heat. In a minor degree it gives rise to frost-bite and chilblains. When only small parts of the body have become frozen (recognisable by the spot turning of a dull yellowish- white colour) serious injury may often be prevented by thawing it very gradually, w"|c“ may be done by bathing it with ice-cold water or rubbing it with snow. Cold also acts as a disease-producing agent by checking perspiration, and thus preventing the carrying off of injurious worn-out materials of the body by that great avenue of purification. Another effect of cold is to drive a great part of the blood out of the little blood- vessels which run everywhere just beneath the surface of the skin. This it does by its contracting and constricting influence, and the blood so driven away flows inwards to the warm parts of the body, filling them too full of blood, or, as it is called, congesting them. When the surface of the body has been chilled in consequence of exposure, the feet ought to be soaked for ten minutes in hot mustard-and-water and the patient covered over with blankets in a warm room and one or two cups of hot milk, cocoa, tea or gruel be given, so as to promote free perspiration. 3520 Pure Air.— The importance of a sufficient supply of pure air can scarcely be over-estimated. In ill-ventilated places the proportion of oxygen in the air becomes greatly reduced, which renders it deleterious and dangerous—our very life being dependent upon the blood gaining fresh oxygen and getting rid of stale carbonic acid unceasingly. Among the more important causes of atmospheric vitiation are the carbonic acid and other substances given off from the lungs, the effluvia from drains sewers and cess-pits, effluvia from decomposing animal matter, which often con- taminate the air and give rise to pestilential disorders ; the vapours given out trom thickly crowded graveyards, which greatly increase the sick and death-rates ot neighbourhoods in which they are disseminated ; emanations from manure lactones, brick-fields, chemical works of various kinds, and the air of marshes or low-lying meadows, which is apt to give rise to remittent or intermittent fevers. Dust in the air contains, among other things, innumerable epithelial scales from the skin of men and animals, hairs, fragments of wool, cotton and flax fibres, pollen grains, splinters cf wood, bark, shreds of leaves, particles of coal and many other substances. Some of these irritate the lungs mechanically, as, for example, anthracite or bituminous coal, which gives rise to miner’s consumption. I he fine particles of steel thrown off in grinding saws and other instruments the dust m potteries and the fragments of wool, flax, &c. in cloth factories, cotton mills and so forth, all exert an injurious influence upon the lungs. The great remedy for impurities of air is ventilation, and the best method of accomplishing this has been for many years one of the great objects of sanitarians. J As the air of an inhabited room cannot, at best, be kept as pure as the external atmosphere, the object of ventilation must be only to reduce the impurities of respiration to such an extent that breathing them into our lungs again will not be manifestly detrimental to health. In order to keep the ratio of carbonic acid and its associated animal impurities down to this limit, it has been found by experiment that it is necessary to supply three thousand cubic feet of perfectly pure air each hour for every adult man who is vitiating the atmosphere of a room by breathing it. Then it must be remembered that the gas-lights and other sources ol