780 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. perfectly free from dirt, repeat the process. Put it into a very large saucepan, with about half a pint of water, just sufficient to keep the spinach from burning, and the above proportion of salt. Press it down frequently with a wooden spoon, that it may be done equally; and when it has boiled for rather more than ten minutes, or until it is perfectly tender, drain it in a colander, squeeze it quite dry, and chop it finely. Put the spinach into a clean stewpan, with the butter and a seasoning of pepper; stir the whole over the fire until quite hot; then put it on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach, 5 minutes to warm with the butter. Average Cost, for the above quantity, 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July ; winter spinach from November to March. Note.— Grated nutmeg, pounded mace, or lemon-juice may also be added to enrich the flavour ; and poached eggs are also frequently served with spinach ; they should be placed on the top of it, and it should be garnished with sippets of toasted bread. Varieties Of Spinach.—These comprise the Strawberry spinach, which, under that name, was wont to be grown in our flower-gardens ; the Good King Harry, the Garden Oracle, the Prickly and the Round, are the varieties commonly used. The Oracle is a hardy sort, much esteemed i> France, and is a native of Tartary, introduced in 1548. The common spinach has its leave's round, and is softer and more succulent than any of the Brassica tribe. 1631.-SPINACH DRESSED WITH CREAM. (Fr.—Epinards a la Creme.) Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz. of butter, 8 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 small teaspoonful of pounded sugar, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode .—Boil and drain the spinach as in recipe No. 1630 ; chop it finely, and put it into a stewpan with the butter; stir over a gentle fire, and, when the butter has dried away, add the re- maining ingredients, and simmer for about five minutes. Previously to adding the cream, boil it first, in case it should curdle. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish either with sippets of toasted bread or leaves of puff-paste. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach; 10 minutes to stew with the cream. Average Cost, for the above quantity, 8rf. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July; winter spinach November to March. Spinach.—This is a Persian plant. It has been cultivated in our gardens about two hundred years, and is the most wholesome of vegetables. It is not very nutritious, but is very easily