Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 738 1546.—BOILED BEETROOT. {Fr.—Betteraves.) Ingredients—Beetroot; boiling water. Mode.—When large, young and juicy, this vegetable makes a very excellent addition to winter salads, and may easily be converted into an economical and quickly-made pickle. (See Pickles.) Beetroot is more frequently served cold than hot : when the latter mode is preferred, melted butter should be sent to table with it. It may also be stewed with button onions, or boiled and served with roasted onions. Wash the beets thoroughly ; but do not prick or break the skin before they are cooked, or they will lose their beautiful colour in boiling. Put them into boiling water, and let them boil until tender, keeping them well covered. If to be served hot, rub off the peel quickly, cut the beet into thick slices, and send to table with melted butter. For salads, pickle, &c., let the root cool, then peel by rubbing, and cut into slices. Time.—Small beetroot, i4 to 2 hours; large 24 to 3 hours. Average Cost, in full season, 2d. each. Seasonable.—May be had at any time. Beetroot.—The geographical distribution of the order Stalworts (Salsolacetz), to which beetroot belongs, is most common in extra- tropical and temperate regions, where they are common weeds, frequenting waste places, among rubbish, and on marshes by the sea-shore. In the tropics they are rare. They are characterised by the large quantity of mucilage, sugar starch and alkaline salts which are found in them. Many of them are used as potherbs, and some are emetic and vermifuge in their medicinal properties. The root of garden or red beet is exceedingly wholesome and nutri- tious, and Dr. Lion Playfair has recommended that a good brown bread may be made by rasp- ing down this root with an equal quantity of flour. He says that the average quality of flour contains about 12 per cent, of azotized principles adapted for the formation of flesh, and the average quality of beet contains about 2 per cent, of the same materials. 1547.—BOILED BROCOLI. {Fr.—Choufleur.) Ingredients.—To each 4 gallon of water allow i heaped tablespoonful of 6alt ; brocoli. Mode.—Strip off the dead leaves and the inside ones cut off level with the flower ; cut off the stalk close at the bottom, and put the brocoli into cold salt and water, or vinegar and water with the heads downwards. When they have remained in this for about three quarters of an hour, and they are perfectly free from insects, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion, and boiled brocoli. keep them boiling gently with the stalk upwards and the saucepan un» covered. Take them up with a slice the moment they are done ; drain them well, and serve with a tureen of melted butter, a little of which BEETROOT.