Rhubarb Tart. 869 Time.—Made round, 4 hours; in a long shape, 2^ hours. Average Cost, 10 d. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1850.-BOILED RHUBARB PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 or five sticks of fine rhubarb, J lb. of moist sugar, $ lb. of suet-crust, No. 1684. Mode.—Make a suet-crust with three-quarters of a pound of flour, by recipe No. 1684, and line a buttered basin with it. Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and, if old, string it—that is to say, pare off the outside skin. Cut it into inch lengths, fill the basin with it, put in the sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of the pudding together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil from 2 to hours. Turn it out of the basin, and serve with a jug of cream and sifted sugar. Time.—2 to 2£ hours. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in spring. 1851.-RHUBARB TART. Ingredients.—lb. of puff-paste, No. 1675, about 5 sticks of large rhubarb, £ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Make a puff-crust by recipe No. 1675 ; line the edges of a deep pie-dish with it, and wash, wipe, and cut the rhubarb into pieces about 1 inch long. Should it be old and tough, string it—that is to say, pare off the outside skin. Pile the fruit high in the dish, as it shrinks very much in the cooking; put in the sugar, cover with crust, ornament the edges, and bake the tart in a well-heated oven from half to three-quarters of an hour. If wanted very nice, brush it over with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, then sprinkle on it some sifted sugar, and put it in the oven just to set the glaze: this should be done when the tart is nearly baked. A small quantity of lemon-juice, and a little of the peel minced, are by many persons con- sidered an improvement to the flavour of rhubarb tart. Time.—i to f hour. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in spring. Rhubarb.—This is one of the most useful of all garden productions that are put into pies and puddings. It was comparatively little known till within the last twenty or thirty years, but it is now cultivated in almost every British garden. The part used is the footstalk of the leaves, which, peeled and cut into small pieces, are put into tarts, either mixed with apples or alone. When quite young, they are much better not peeled RHUBARB.