Vol-au-Vent. 887 the padding and boil for 3 hours. Turn it out on the dish, and serve with sifted sugar. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter pudding. 1893.—VICTORIA PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ pod of vanilla, £ pint of cream, 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of fine sifted sugar, yolks of 8 eggs. Mode.—Boil the vanilla in the milk, strain it through muslin into the cream, place it over the fire, stirring all the time; add the sugar when the mixture boils, pour it over the yolks of the eggs, having previously whisked them thoroughly. Stir till nearly cold ; then pour into a buttered basin, aud boil gently for 1 hour. Let the pudding stand for 5 minutes before turning it out. Serve with melted red currant jelly round it Time.—ij hour. Average Cost, is. xod. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1894.—VOL AU-VLNT. Ingredients.—1 to 1 lb. of puff-paste, No. 1677, fricasseed chickens, rabbits, ragouts, or the remains of cold fish, flaked and warmed in thick white sauce. Mode.—Make from ^ to 1 lb. of puff-paste, by recipe No. 1677, taking care that it is very evenly rolled out each time, to insure its rising properly ; and if the paste is not extremely light, and put into a good hot oven, this cannot be accomplished, and the vol-au- vent will look very badly. Roll out the paste to the thickness of about i£ inch, and, with a fluted cutter, dipped in boiling water, stamp it out to the desired shape, either round or oval, and, with the point of a small knife, or better, a cutter of the same shape, but two sizes smaller, make a slight incision in the paste all round the top, about an inch from the edge, which, when baked, forms the lid. Put the vol-au-vent into a good brisk oven, and keep the door shut for a few minutes after it is put in. Particular attention should be paid to the heating of the oven, for the paste cannot rise without a tolerable degree of heat. When of a nice colour, without being scorched, withdraw it from the oven, instantly remove the cover where it was marked, and detach all the soft crumb from the centre; in doing this be careful not to break the edges of the vol-au-vent; but should they look thin in places, stop them with small flakes of the inside paste, stuck on with the white of VOL-AU-VENT.