82 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. best earthenware, is supplied in sizes from 14 inches to 24 inches in length, at prices ranging from 26s. to 64s. 169. Potato Pasty-pan.-—A pasty of meat and potatoes made in this pasty- pan is extremely savoury and delicious. The meat is placed at the bottom of the pan, with seasoning, butter, and a little water, and the perforated plate, with its valve-pipe screwed on, is laid over the meat. Some mashed potatoes, mixed with milk, are next arranged on the perforated plate, filling up the whole space to the top of the tube, and finishing the surface in an ornamental manner. If carefully baked, the potatoes will be covered with a delicate brown crust, retaining all the savoury steam arising from the meat. Potato pasty-pans are supplied at from 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. Those manufactured by Messrs. Loveridge and Co. are in five sizes, ranging from 7J in. to 12 in. in length, and sold at prices varying from 5s. (id. to 9s., according to size. It may be added that either fresh or cooked meat may be dressed in the above manner; and, in the latter case, the pan will be found of great advantage, as it adds another dish to the list of “Cold Meat Cookery.” its form is shown in the illustration given in page 74. 170. Cra vy Strainer.-—One of these is absolutely indispensable. Its forms are shown in the illustrations given in page 77. One is like an inverted cone with the pointed end cut off, having a handle attached to it, and a plate perforated with very fine holes, or piece of wire netting, at the bottom, below which is a rim on which it stands. It is made in three sizes, with fine, or coarse bottom, sold at is. 6d., is. gd. and 2s. each, according to size. Another kind is made in the form of a cone ; but this, of course, will not stand by itself, terminating as it does in a point. It is made in three sizes, with fine or coarse netting, sold at is. gd., 2s. and 2s. 6d., according to size. 171. Eyy Poacher.—When eggs are much used in a family, an egg poacher forms a desirable addition to the utensils of the kitchen. These are made in different forms, the ordinary poacher being in the form of a circular tin plate, with Three or four depressions, into which the contents of the eggs are placed, and an upright handle rising from the centre. The plate is supported by feet, on which it stands when lowered into the saucepan. Poachers for three eggs are sold for is. 8d.; for four eggs at 2s. 8d. An 8£ inch oval saucepan, with a plate bearing four tin cups for eggs, is made by Messrs. Loveridge and Co., and sold for 6s. 172. Cash Stand.—For beer it is desirable to have a stand by which the cask may be raised or lowered without shaking its contents. The patent cask stand, shown in page 74, will be found most useful for this purpose. This stand is, perhaps, the best that has yet been produced, its action being very simple and easy to understand. The price of this stand for a 9-gallon cask is 10s. 6d., for an 18-gallon cask, 12s. 6d. 173. Peer tap.—The best kind of tap for home use is the brass syphon beer tap, shown in the illustration given in page 80, which requires no vent-peg, and which is fitted with a protector in front, to receive the blows of the mallet in tap- ping a cask. The protector may be unscrewed to clean the syphon tube when it is in the cask. Another improvement consists in the self-acting tube being brought down close to the mouth of the jug, glass, or vessel into which the beer is drawn. Directions for keeping the tap in order are given to the purchaser. This tap is sold at 3s. 6d. 174. Corkscrew.— A good corkscrew is necessary in every household, and the Tangent Lever Corkscrew, illustrated in page 80, possesses manifest advan- tages over the ordinary corkscrew, especially for woman’s use. The screw is twisted into the cork in the usual way; the socket at the end of the lower arm of