Giblet Pie. 619 1309—ROAST FOWL OR CAPON, STUFFED. (Fv.—Poulet Roti et Farci.) Ingredients.—A large fowl, forcemeat, No. 629, a little flour. Mode.—Select a large plump fowl, fill the breast with forcemeat, made by recipe No. 629, truss it firmly, the same as for a plain roast fowl, dredge it with flour, and put it down to a bright fire. Roast it for nearly or quite an hour, should it be very large; remove the skewers, and serve with a good brown gravy and a tureen of bread-sauce. Time.—Large fowl, nearly or quite 1 hour. Average Cost, in full season, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. Note.—Sausage-meat stuffing may be sub- stituted for the above; this is now a very general mode of serving fowl. Pencilled Hamburg.—This variety of the Ham- burg fowl is oi two colours, golden and silver, and is very minutely marked. The hens of both should have the body clearly pencilled across with several bars of black, and the hackle in both sexes should be perfectly free from dark marks. The cocks do not exhibit the pencillings, but are white or brown in the golden or silver birds respectively. Their form is compact, and their attitudes graceful and sprightly. The hens do not sit, but lay extremely well; hence one of their common names—that of Dutch every-dav layers. They are also known in different parts of the country as Chitteprats, Creoles, or Corals, Bolton bays and grays, and in some parts of Yorkshire, by tire wrong name of Corsican fowls, Holland, but those bred in this country are greatly superior in size ftNCU-ctD HAMBURGS. are imported in large numbers from 1310.-GIBLET PIE. (Fv.—Pate aux Abatis d’Oie ou Gibelettes.) Ingredients.—A set of duck or goose giblets, 1 lb. of rumpsteak, 1 onion, £ teaspoonful of whole black pepper, a bunch of savoury herbs, plain crust. Mode.—Clean, and put the giblets into a stewpan with an onion, whole pepper, and a bunch of savoury herbs ; add rather more than a pint of water, and simmer gently for about hour. Take them out, let them cool, and cut them into pieces; line the bottom of a pie-dish with a few pieces of rump-steak, add a layer of giblets and a few more pieces of steak; season with pepper and salt, and pour in the gravy (which should be strained) that the giblets were stewed in ; cover with a plain crust, and bake for rather more than i| hour in a brisk oven. Cover a piece of paper over the pie, to prevent the crust taking too much colour,