1458 Men Servants' Duties, of the different sorts separated ; but where the wine is bottled in the house, he will find the advantage not only of keeping them separate, but of rinsing them well, and even washing them with clean water as soon as they are empty. THE FOOTMAN. 3229. The Me(ld Footman.•—In large households where there are several footmen under the butler, the head footman has a comparatively easy time. He does not go out with the carriage, but remains at home to answer the front door to visitors in the afternoon. It is his duty to help the butler in bringing in after- noon tea, and he either superintends the laying of the cloth for dinner or assists in laying it himself under the supervision of the butler. It is not his duty to clean the plate or glass, in fact to do any washing or cleaning, but he is responsible for all work falling to the other footmen being properly and thoroughly done, and to him the butler will look to see that everything is in order. In a household where several footmen are kept there is as a rule a valet, but the head footman is required very often to wait upon gentleman visitors. Under the butler, he takes the first place in waiting at table at all meals where attendance is required. Where a valet is not kept, a portion of his duties falls to the footman — brushing the clothes among others. When the hat is silk, it requires brushing every day with a soft brush : after rain, it requires wiping the way of the nap before drying, and, when nearly dry, brushing with the soft brush and with the hat-stick in it. If the footman is required to perform any part of a valet’s duties, he will have to see that the housemaid lights a fire in the dressing-room in due time ; that the room is dusted and cleaned ; that the washhand-ewer is filled with soft water; and that the bath, whether hot or cold, is ready when required ; that towels are at hand ; that hair-brushes and cojnbs are properly cleansed, and in their places; that hot water is ready at the hour ordered ; the the footman. dressing-gown anci slippers in their place, the clean linen aired, and the clothes to be worn for the day in their proper places. After the master has dressed, it will be the footman’s duty to restore everything to its place properly cleansed and dry, and the whole restored to order. 3230. The second footman generally goes out with the carriage, answers the drawing or dining-room bells, and attends the ladies of the house ; his head not leaving his post in the hall during visiting hours. It falls to his lot to clean the plate, and wash the china and glass, or rather the choicer part of the latter, used in the dining-room. When there is an “at home’’ given by the ladies of the house, the second footman is sometimes required also to wait in coal vase. the hall. In fact, the second foot- man’s duties may be briefly understood as having generally to assist the head. 3231. The third footman has to do all the rougher work where a boy is not kept, such as cleaning knives, boots and windows, bringing in and carrying up