342 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. graving, and hold it in hot lard or dripping for a few seconds. Directly it is done, lift out the basket, and let it stand before the fire, that the parsley may become thoroughly crisp; and the quicker it is fried the better. The pan should be lifted off the fire, as parsley contains much water, and the fat may bubble over. It will want little more than dipping in, if the fat is properly hot. It is better to dip it in twice, than to keep it in too long the first time. Should the kitchen not be furnished with the above article, throw the parsley into the frying-pan, and, when crisp, lift it out with a slice, dry it before the fire, and, when thoroughly crisp, it will be ready for use. It ought to be as green as when it was growing, and quite dry. Wire Basket —For this recipe, a wire basket, as shown in the annexed engraving, will be found very useful. It is very light and handy, and may be used for other similar purposes besides that above described. 755.—PARSLEY JUICE. (Fr.—Jus de Persil.) (For Colouring various Dishes.) Mode.—Procure some nice young parsley; wash it and dry it thoroughly in a cloth; pound the leaves in a mortar till all the juice is extracted, and put the juice in a teacup or small jar ; place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and warm it on the bain marie principle just long enough to take off its rawness; let it drain, and it will be ready for colouring. 756— PLUM PUDDING SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce pour Plum Pouding.) Ingredients.—1 wineglassful of brandy, 2 oz. of very fresh butter, 1 glass of madeira, pounded sugar to taste. Mode.—Put the pounded sugar into a basin, with part of the brandy and the butter ; let it stand by the side of the fire until it is warm, and the sugar and butter are dissolved ; then add the rest of the brandy, with the madeira. Either pour it over the pudding or serve in a tureen. This is a very rich and excellent sauce. Average Cost, 10d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a pudding made for b persons. 757.—SOYER’S SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients.—The yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar, 1 gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, 2 small wineglassfuls of brandy.