410 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Sufficient for io persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Should the joint be very small, 4 or 5 days will be sufficient time to salt it. 917.—BRISKET OF BEEF. (Fr.—Poitrine de Bceuf a la Flamande.) Ingredients.—About 6 or 8 lbs. of the brisket of beef, 4 or 5 slices of bacon, 2 carrots, 1 onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 4 cloves, 4 whole allspice, 2 blades of mace. Mode.—Choose that portion of the brisket which contains the gristle, trim it, and put it into a stewpan with the slices of bacon, which should be put under and over the meat. Add the vegetables, herbs, spices and seasoning, and cover with a little weak stock or water; close the stewpan as hermetically as possible, and simmer very gently for 4 hours. Strain the liquor, reserve a portion of it for sauce, and the remainder boil quickly over a sharp fire until reduced to a glaze, with which glaze the meat. Garnish the dish with scooped carrots and turnips, and when liked, a little cabbage; all of which must be cooked separately. Thicken and flavour the liquor that was saved for sauce, pour it round the meat, and serve. The beef may also be garnished with glazed onions, artichoke- bottoms, &c. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, qTf per lb. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. French Beef.—It has been all but universally admitted that the beef of France is greatly in- ferior in quality to that of England, owing to inferiority of pasturage. M. Curmer, however, one of the latest writers on the culinary art, tells us that this is a vulgar error, and that French beef is far superior to that of England. This is mere vaunting on the part of our neighbours, who seem to want la gloire in everything ; and we should not deign to notice it, if it had occurred in a wotk of small pretensions; but M. Curmer’s book professes to be a complete exposition of the scientific principles of cookery, and holds a high rank in the didactic literature of France. We half suspect that M. Curmer obtained his knowledge of English beef in the sttne way as did the poor Frenchman whom the late Mr. Mathews, the comedian, so humorously described. Mr. Lewes, in his “ Physiology of Common Life," has thus revived the story of the beef-eating son of France:—“A Frenchman was one day blandly remonstrating against the supercilious scorn expressed by Englishmen for the beef of France, which he, for his part, did not find so inferior to that of England. ‘ I have been two times in England,’ he remarked, ‘ but I nevere find the bif so superior to ours. I find it vary convenient thrt they bring it you on leetle pieces of stick, for one penny ; but I do not find the bif superieur.’ On hearing this, the Englishman, red with astonishment, exclaimed, ‘Good heavens, sir 1 you have been eating cats' meat.’” No, M. Curmer, we are ready to acknowledge the superiority of your cookery, but we have long since made up our minds as to the inferiority of your raw material. 918.—BEEF PICKLE. (Fr.—Marinade.) (Which may also be used for any kind of Meat, Tongues, or Hams.) ingredients.— 6 lbs. of salt, 2 lbs, of fine sugar, 3 oz. of powdered saltpetre, 3 gallons of spring water.