The Doctor. 1592 pillows, this will assist breathing. Give milk, beef-tea, white of egg, custards, Brand’s jelly, strong chicken tea, &c. Cold water may be given to allay thirst. Medical aid should be sought at once. 3568. Quinsy.—This is a severe inflammation of the throat, chiefly in- volving the tonsils and frequently going on to suppuration. It is usually ushered in by chilly feelings, which are succeeded by fever. The speech becomes nasal in character, and there is pain and difficulty in swallowing. Treatment.—In the early stage this disease may be cut short by the adminis- tration of an emetic of twenty grains of powdered ipecacuanha or by small doses of tincture of aconite frequently repeated, say a quarter or half a drop every fifteen minutes or half hour till the patient is in a good perspiration, when the medicine may be given less frequently. Medicated sprays are much more useful than gargles. A mixture containing the following ingredients may be given with advantage:—Steel drops, three drachms; sulphate of quinine, half a drachm ; chlorate of potassium, two drachms; glycerine, half an ounce; water added to make eight ounces. A tablespoonful in water every four hours. The food should consist of milk, eggs, beef tea, cocoa, &c.; pieces of ice may be given to suck. 3569. Rheumatic Fever.—This disease begins with restlessness and fever; there is a white or creamy condition of tongue, and the bowels are deranged. Presently the joints begin to ache, the pain increases till there is great swelling and tenderness all over one or more of the large joints of the body ; the temperature rises, and, in some cases, becomes excessively high ; the urine deposits a thick, brickdust sediment on cooling. As there is a great risk of the heart becoming affected in this disease it must always be regarded with appre- hension. Treatment.—Absolute rest must be enjoined, and milk and potass water, alone or together be given along with beef tea, beat up eggs, &c. The following medicines may be usefully given :—Salicylate of sodium, three drachms ; iodide of potassium, half a drachm ; water added to make up to eight ounces. A table- spoonful of this mixture may be given every three hours. The joints should be wrapped in cotton wool, and the patient wear woollen in preference to linen articles of clothing next the skin. 3570. Spasms, in the ordinary sense of the word as used by the vulgar, mean gripes, and commonly depend on indigestion and constipation. Treatment.—In many cases relief may be obtained by the administration of a purgative. Sometimes, when the pain is very severe, it may be necessary to relieve it, that is, treat the symptoms and attend afterwards to the correction of the diet, &c. For this purpose fifteen drops of laudanum, or the solution of the muriate of morphia may be given along with twenty drops of spirit of chloroform in a little water. As soon as the pain is relieved, the general condition of the patient must be attended to, and anything in the diet that has been known to give rise to pain should be scrupulously avoided, and only simple, plain kinds of food given. WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENT OR SUDDEN ILLNESS. 3571. Apoplexy.—Treatment.—When a person is in an apoplectic fit prevent all unnecessary movement : raise the head and remove everything tight from the neck, then apply ice or cold water cloths to the head; put the feet in mustard and water or apply mustard leaves or poultices to the calves of the legs.