1200 Recipes for Beverages. 2680.-RED CURRANT WINE (WITH RASPBERRIES). Ingredients.—10 gallons of red-currant juice, 1 pint of raspberry juice, 20 gallons of water, 18 lbs. of finely sifted loaf sugar. Mode.—Put the ingredients together and let them stand until the sugar is dissolved, then put the liquor into a cask, and bung lightly, for the air to aid in the fermentation. Let it cease fermenting, then bung tightly. Bottle in a year’s time, using sound corks and sealing them. It will be in excellent condition in three months. Time.—Altogether about 16 months. Average Cost, 2s. per gallon. Seasonable in June, July and August. 2681.—DAMSON WINE. Ingredients.—1 gallon of boiling water to every 8 lbs. of bruised fruit, lbs. of sugar to each gallon of juice. Mode.—Well bruise the fruit and pour the boiling water on it; let it stand 48 hours. Then strain the mixture into a cask and put in the sugar. When fermentation ceases fill up the cask and bung closely. Bottle in 10 months’ time. It will be fit for use in a year, but improves with keeping. Time.—About two years. Average Cost, 2s. per gallon. Seasonable in September and October. 2682.—ELDER WINE. Ingredients.—To every 3 gallons of water allow 1 peck of elderberries; to every gallon of juice allow 3 lbs. of sugar, \ oz. of ground ginger, 6 cloves, 1 lb. of good Turkey raisins; J pint of brandy to every gallon of wine. To every 9 gallons of wine 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of fresh brewers’ yeast. Mode.—Pour the water, quite boiling, on the elderberries, which should be picked from the stalks, and let these stand covered for 24 hours ; then strain the whole through a sieve or bag, breaking the fruit to express all the juice from it. Measure the liquor, and to every gallon allow the above proportion of sugar. Boil the juice and sugar with the ginger, cloves and raisins for 1 hour, skimming the liquor the whole time; let it stand until milk-warm, then put it into a clean, dry cask, with 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of good fresh yeast to every 9 gallons of wine. Let it ferment for about a fortnight; then add the brandy, bung up the cask, and let it stand some months before it is bottled, when it will be found excellent. A bunch of hops suspended to a string from the bung, some persons say, will preserve the wine good for several years. Elder wine is usually mulled, and served with sippets of toasted bread and a little grated, nutmeg.