644 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. particular in not breaking the outside border of the crust), and fill the patties with the mixture. Time.—^ hour to prepare the meat; not quite £ hour to bake the crust. Seasonable at any time. Hatching.—Sometimes the chick within the shell is unable to break away from its prison; for the white of the egg will occasionally harden in the air to the consistence of joiners’ glue, when the poor chick is in a terrible fix. An able writer says, “ Assistance in hatching must not be rendered prematurely, and thence unnecessarily, but only in the case of the chick being plainly unable to release itself: then, indeed, an addition may probably be made to the brood, as great numbers are always lost in this way. The chick makes a circular fracture at the big end ot the egg, and a section of about one-third of the length of the shell being separated, delivers the prisoner, provided there is no obstruction from adhesion of the body to the membrane which lines the shell. Between the body of the chick and the membrane of the shell there exists a viscous fluid, the white of the egg thickened with the intense heat of incubation, until it becomes a positive glue. When this happens, the feathers stick fast to the shell, and the chicks remain confined, and must perish, if not released.” The method of assistance to be rendered to chicks which have a difficulty in releasing them- selves from the shell, is to take the egg in the hand, and dipping the finger or a piece of linen rag in warm water, to apply it to the fastened parts until they are loosened by the gluey substance becoming dissolved and separated from the feathers. The chick, then, being returned to the nest, will extricate itself—a mode generally to be observed, since, it violence were used, it would prove fatal. Nevertheless, breaking the shell may sometimes be necessary ; and separating with the fingers, as gently as may be, the membrane from the feathers, which are still to be moistened as mentioned above, to facilitate the operation. The points of small scissors may be useful, and when there is much resistance, as also apparent pain to the bird, the process must be conducted in the gentlest manner, and the shell separated into a number of small pieces. The signs of a need of assistance are the egg being partly pecked and chipped, and the chick discontinuing its efforts for five or six hours. Weakness from cold may disable the chicken from commencing the operation of pecking the shell, which must then be artificially performed with a circular fracture, such as is made by the bird itself. 1343.—CHICKENS FRIED. {Fr.—Poulets Frits a la Creme.) Ingredients.—2 chickens, hot lard or beef dripping, £ lb. of butter, 1 teacupful of cream, flour, parsley, salt and cayenne pepper. Mode.—Cut up the chickens, and season them with salt and cayenne pepper; roll them in flour, and fry them in hot lard or good sweet drip- ping (beef); when the whole are fried, pour oft the grease, and put in the butter and cream, a little flour, and some scalded parsley chopped fine for the sauce. Time.—10 minutes to fry. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. each chicken. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable at any time. 1344.-CURRIED FOWL. {Fr.—Poulet au Kari.) Ingredients.—I fowl, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions sliced, 1 pint of white veal gravy, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 apple, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Put the butter into a stewpan, with the onions sliced, the fowl cut into small joints, and the apple peeled, cored and minced. Fry of a pale brown, add the stock, and stew gently for 20 minutes ; rub down the curry-powder and flour with a little of the gravy, quite smoothly, and stir