454 Recipes for Cooking Veal. Mode.—Cut thin slices from a fillet of veal, place on them thin slices of bacon, and cover them with a layer of forcemeat, made by recipe No. 629, with an additional seasoning of shalot and cayenne ; roll them tightly, and fill up a pie-dish with them ; add the gravy and cream, cover with a puff-crust, and bake for 1 to hour; should the pie be very large, allow 2 hours. The pieces of rolled veal should be about 3 inches in length, and about 3 inches round. Time.—Moderate-sized pie, 1 to hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, lod. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1007.—FRIED PATTIES. (Fr.—Rissoles de Veau.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—Cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 1 egg boiled hard, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, gravy, cream, 1 teaspoon- ful of minced lemon-peel, good puff-paste. Mode.—Mince a little cold veal and ham, allowing one-third ham to two-thirds veal: add an egg boiled hard and chopped, and a seasoning of pounded mace, salt, pepper and lemon-peel; moisten with a little gravy and cream. Make a good puff-paste ; roll rather thin, and cut it into round or square pieces; put the mince between two of them, pinch the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry a light brown. They may be also baked in patty-tins ; in that case, they should be brushed over with the yolk of an egg before they are put in the oven. To make a variety, oysters may be substituted for the ham. Time.—15 minutes to fry the patties. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 9d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1008.—VEAL PIE. (Fr.— Pate de Veau.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of veal cutlets, 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, crust, 1 teacupful of gravy. Mode.—Cut the cutlets into square pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, and pounded mace ; put them in a pie-dish with the savoury herbs sprinkled over, and 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham placed at the top ; if possible this should be previously cooked, as undressed bacon makes the veal red, and spoils its appearance. Pour in a little water, cover with crust, ornament it in any way that is approved; brush it over with the