1541 Correction of Bad Habits, S458. Carrying Infants.—There is a considerable art in carrying an infant comfortably for itself and for the nursemaid. If she carries it always seated upright on her arm. and presses it too closely against her chest, the stomach of the child is apt to get compressed, and the back fatigued, tor her own comfort, a good nurse will frequently vary this position, by changing trorn one arm to the other, and sometimes by laying it across both, raising the head a little. When teaching it to walk, and guiding it by the hand, she should change the hand from time to time, so as to avoid raising one shoulder higher than the other. This is the only way in which a child should be taught to walk , leading-strings and other foolish inventions, which force an infant to make efforts with its shoulders and head forward, before it knows how to use its limbs, will only render it feeble, and retard its progress. 3459. Bad Habits.—Most children have some bad habit, of whic-h they must be broken ; but this is never accomplished by harshness without developing worse evils; kindness, perseverance, and patience in the nurse, are here ot the utmost importance. When finger-sucking is one of these habits, the fingers are sometimes rubbed with bitter aloes, or some equally disagreeable substance. Others have dirty habits, which are only to be changed by patience, perseverance, and, above all, by regularity in the nurse. She should never be permitted to inflict punishment on these occasions, or, indeed, on any occasion. But, it punishment is to be avoided, it is still more necessary that all kinds of indulgence and flattery be equally forbidden. Yielding to all the whims of a child—picking up its toys when thrown away in mere wantonness, would be intolerable. A child should never be led to think others inferior to it, to beat — a dog, or even the stone against which it falls, as some children are taught to do by silly nurses. Neither should the nurse affect or show alarm at any of the little acci- dents which must inevitably happen ; if it falls, treat it as a trifle ; otherwise she encourages a spirit of cowardice and timidity. But she will take care that such accidents are not of frequent occurrence, or the result of neglect. The nurse should keep the child as clean as possible, and pairj' ularly she should train it to habits of cleanliness, so that it should feel uncomfortable when otherwise, watching especially that it does not soil itself in eating. At tile same time, vanity in its personal appearance is not to be encouraged by overcare in this respect, or by too tight lacing or buttoning of dresses, nor a small foot cultivated by the use of tight shoes. Nursemaids would do well to repeat to the parents faithfully and truly the defects they observe in the dispositions of very young children. If properly checked in time, evil pro- • pensities may be eradicated ; but this should not ex*-end ,11D® -ii defects-; or otherwise, the intuitive perceptions which all children possess will construe the act into - spying ” and '• informing,” which should :neverr 1be 1reisor ed to in the case of children, nor, indeed, in any case Such are thecaveswhich devolve upon the nurse, and it is her duty to fulfil them personally In large establishments she will have assistance proportioned to the numberofchildren of which she has the care. The under nursemaid lights the fires, sweeps, scours, and dusts the rooms, and makes the beds ; empties slops and carries u? ’ brings up and removes the nursery meals ; washes and dresses all the children, except the infant, and assists in mending. Where there is a nursery girl to ass.st she does the rougher part of the cleaning; and all take their meals in the nursery together, after the children of the family have done.