336 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. stalks cut off. Let them simmer gently for about 10 minutes, or until they are quite tender. Put in the seasoning and ketchup ; let it just boil, when serve. Time.—Rather more than 10 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. Seasonable from August to October. Growth of the Mushroom and other Fungi.—The quick growth of the mushroom and other fungi is no less wonderful than the length of time they live, and the numerous dangers they resist while they continue in the dormant state. To spring up “ like a mushroom in a night ” is a Scriptural mode of expressing celerity; and this completely accords with all the observations which have been made concerning this curious class of plants. Mr. Sowerby remarks—“ I have often placed specimens of the Phallus canius by a window over-night, while in the egg-form, and they have been fully grown by the morning.” 740.-AVERY RICH AND GOOD MUSHROOM SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Champignons.) (To Serve with Fowls or Rabbits.) Ingredients.—r pint of mushroom-buttons, salt to taste, a little grated nutmeg, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, flour to thicken. Mode.—Cut off the stalks of the buttons and put them into a basin of salt and water. If they are large peel them ; put them in a stewpan with the above ingredients and the butter and flour; boil the whole for about 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour some of the sauce over the fowls, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient to serve with a pair of fowls. Seasonable from August to October. 741.-HOW TO MIX MUSTARD. (Fr.—Moutarde a I’Anglaise.) Ingredients.—Mustard, salt and water. Mode.—Mustard should be mixed with cold water; hot water destroys its essential properties. Put the mustard in a cup, with a small pinch of salt, and mix with it very gradually sufficient water to make it drop from the spoon without being watery. Stir and mix well, and rub the lumps well down with the back of a spoon, as well-mixed mustard should be perfectly free from these. The mustard-pot should not be more than half full, or rather less if it will not be used in a day or two, as it is much better when freshly mixed. 742.—TARTAR MUSTARD. Ingredients.—Horseradish vinegar, cayenne, ^a teacupful of mustard. Mode.—Have ready sufficient horseradish vinegar to mix with the above proportion of mustard; put the mustard in a cup. with a slight