Eggs a la Maitre d ’Hotel. 1175 2620. —FRIED EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs Frits.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, I lb. of lard, butter, or clarified dripping. Mode.—Place a delicately-clean frying-pan over a gentle fire ; put !n the fat, and allow it to come to the boiling-point, cups, slip them into the hot fat, and let them remain until the whites are delicately set; and, whilst they are frying, ladle a little of the fat over them. Take them up with a slice, drain them for & minute from their greasy moisture, trim them neatly, and serve on slices of toast, fried bacon or ham ; or the eggs may be placed in the middle of the dish, with the bacon put round as a garnish. If they are to be served with ham or bacon, cook first these, and after- wards the eggs in the same pan. Time.—2 to 3 minutes. Average Cost, id. each; 2d. when scarce. Sufficient for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. Primitive Method of Cooking Eggs.—The shepherds of Egypt had a singular manner of cooking eggs without the aid of fire. They placed them in a sling, which they turned so rapidly that the friction of the air heated them to the exact point required for use. 2621. -EGGS A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. Ingredients.—£ lb. of fresh butter, I tablespoonful of flour, £ pint of milk, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, the juice of £ lemon, 6 eggs. Mode.—Put the flour and half the butter into a stewpan; stir them over the fire until the mixture thickens; pour in the milk, which should be boiling ; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and simmer the whole for 5 minutes. Boil the eggs hard, strip off the shells, cut the eggs into quarters, and put them on a dish. Bring the sauce to the boiling-point; put the remainder of the butter into the sauce, the minced parsley and the lemon-juice, off the fire, pour over the eggs, and serve. Time.—5 minutes to boil the sauce; the eggs, 10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Veneration for Eggs.—Many of the most learned philosophers held eggs in a kind of respect approaching to veneration, because they saw in them the emblem of the world and the four elements. The shell, they said, represented the earth ; the white, water; the yolk, fire; and air was found under the shell at one end of the egg. 2622.-CEUFS SUR LE PLAT, or AU MIROIR. {Served on the Dish in which they are Cooked.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, I oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Butter a dish rather thickly with good fresh butter; melt it, Break the eggs into FRIED EGGS ON BACON.