The Doctor. 1602 3635. Fainting.—Give a teaspoonful of spirit of sal volatile in water. 3636. Flatulence.—Give bismuth and soda powders as in dyspepsia. Spirit of sal volatile in fifteen-drop doses given in water every hour or two is also useful. For children, a teaspoonful of dill water will be found of service. 3637. Hemorrhage.—Give ice. Keep the patient at complete rest. The liquid extract of ergot, in doses of ten to fifteen drops every two hours in water, will also be found useful. Ten grains of gallic acid with fifteen drops of aromatic sulphuric acid may be given every three hours in bleeding from the lungs. The others may be given for this, and bleeding from the stomach as well. 3633. Heartburn.—Bismuth and soda powders as in dyspepsia (q.v.) may be given, also bismuth tablets. 3639. Neuralgia.—Give quinine and iron—two grains of former and ten drops of latter (steel drops) three times a day in water. Menthol may be applied externally ; also the ether spray. Tonga is often useful when other remedies fail. 3640. Nigh tin arc.—Give twenty grains of bromide of potassium in water at bedtime. 3641. Night Screaming of Children.—Give three to five grains of bromide of potassium to children from six to eight years old at bedtime. 3642. Otorrhcea—Funning at the Ear.—Lay the child on its side and fill the ear with glycerine of tannic acid. This may be repeated in a few days if necessary. 3643. Piles.—Bathe the part with cold water night and morning. Apply gall and opium ointment if there is much pain. Take plenty of walking exercise. If the bowels are constipated, take a teaspoonful of the compound liquorice powder or confection of sulphur occasionally. 3644. Sciatica.—Rub the part with belladonna liniment, or spray some ether upon it. Give iodide of potassium in three-grain doses two or three times a day. It may be combined with thirty drops of the compound tincture of cinchona. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN. 3645. The infantine management of children, like the mother’s love for her offspring, seems to be born with the child, and to be a direct intelli- gence of Nature. It may thus, at first sight, appear as inconsistent and pre- sumptuous to tell a woman how to rear her infant as to instruct her in the manner of loving it. Yet, though Nature is unquestionably the best nurse, Art makes so admirable a foster-mother, that no sensible woman, in her novitiate of parent, would refuse the admonitions of art, or the teachings of experience, to consummate her duties of nurse. It is true that, in a civilised state of society, few young wives reach the epoch that makes them mothers without some insight, traditional or practical, into the management of infants: consequently, the cases wherein a woman is left to her own unaided intelligence, or what, in such a case, may be called instinct, and obliged to trust to the promptings of nature alone for the well-being of her child, are very rare indeed. Again, every woman is not