The “ Wilson " Cooking Range. 49 placed a hot closet for warming dishes, &c., an addition of incalculable advan- tage, especially when any circumstance has occurred, as is sometimes the case, t0 Ikte:Poutnot ^difficult to continue the enumeration of the merits and virtues of the Kitchener. But the construction of these ranges may be plainly seen from the illustrations; and they may be warmly recommended to all who are fitting or furnishing kitchens. It may be said, indeed, that English cookery will never be generally improved until all houses possess, instead of the old open range, one of the modern Kitcheners, or “ close fire ranges. 86. Ranges that do not require Fixing.—The ranges that have been alreadyunder consideration are ranges that require fixing, and it will now be convenient to glance briefly at others which do not require fixing, and which are therefore, more in accordance with what is usually understood and conveyed by the term kitchener, that is a cooking apparatus which is complete in itself and does not require setting in the place appropriated for its reception Chief among these are the “Wilson" Portable Cooking Range, manufactured and sold by the Wilson Engineering Company, and on view in all its different sizes at their show-rooms, 227, High Holborn, W.C.; the Improved Cooking Ranges, manufactured, supplied, and exhibited by Mr. T. J. Con- stantine, at 6i, Fleet Street, London, E.C., and the various ranges manufactured and sold by Messrs. Smith and Wellstood, Columbian Stove Works, Ludgate Circus, London, E.C. 87. The “Wilson” Cooking Range.—The general appearance of the Wilson ” Cooking Range is shown in the first of the accompanying lllustratio , which exhibits a view of it from the front; the principle on which it is con- structed may be gathered from the second, in which a semi-sectional eleva- tor, of tVip ran up itself is exhibited. An air valve regulates the fire, so that almost all the heat engendered is employed in the range and but little passes up the chimney, thus rendering a fire in the latter almost, if not entirely, an impossi- bi’itv The combustion of the smoke and the noxious gases is ingeniously effected bv means of ““tensely super-heated air. The cold air, in the first place being admitted througk a ventilator, a, m the fire-door, is made to travel through flanged chambers of which the fire-box, b, itself forms in every case one side. In this Dassage the air is thoroughly heated and meets the smoke and gases as they leave ?he firge-£x,awhere the progress of the latter isi arrested.n some nf a nlate c which, from its function, is called a baffle-plate. At this point tne heated air, smoke, gases, &c„ commingle, producing almost perfect combustion before travelling round the flues surrounding the ovens and boilers. The range as may be inferred from what has been stated, is practically a smoke consuming one while but very little soot, comparatively speaking, accumulates in the flues. The ranges are made with a flue socket at top, but are supplied with the flue locket at°the back instead, if this arrangement be preferred. A stove pipe fits on to the flue socket through which the smoke and products of combustion that escape from the range are conveyed into the chimney. (i ) Principle of Construction.—Stated in as few words as possible the principle of construction of7 the “Wilson ' Cooking range is designed to obviate waste in fu“l and to reduce its consumption to a minimum. This is brought about, shown above by effecting with highly heated air the combustion of the smallest oractktal quantity of fuel with the utilisation of that heretofore wasted in smoke ; and in giving a greater and more complete distribution of heat and in minimising the deposit of soot. t , 1 Sire and Price of Ranges.—The “ Wilson ” Cooking Ranges are made in all sizesilS i foofg inches to xo feet 6 inches, and even larger if required, at prices