Preserved Pumpkin. 1015 mouthed jar, and place them in a cool oven for 2 nights; then drain the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over, and dry them in a cool oven. Time.—15 to 20 minutes to boil the plums in the syrup. Seasonable from August to October. PlumB.—The wild sloe is the parent of the plum, but the acclimated kinds come from the East. The cultivation of this fruit was probably attended to very early in England, as Gerrard informs us that in 1597, he had in his garden, in Holborn, threescore sorts. The sloe is a shrub common in our hedgerows, and belongs to the natural order Amygdalea; the fruit is about the size of a large pea, of a black colour, and covered with a bloom of a bright blue. It is one of the few indigenous to our island. The juice is extremely sharp and astringent, and was formerly employed as a medicine, where astringents were necessary. It now assists in the manufacture of a red wine made to imitate port, and also for adulteration. The leaves have been used to adulterate tea.' the fruit, when ripe, makes a good preserve. 2196.—STEWED FRENCH PLUMS. {A Dessert Dish.) Ingredients.—i£lb. of French plums, £ pint of syrup, No. 2115,1 glass of port, the rind and juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Stew the plums gently in water for 1 hour; strain the water, and with it make the syrup. When it is clear, put in the plums with the port, lemon-juice and rind, and simmer very gently for i£ hour. Arrange the plums on a glass dish, take out the lemon-rind, pour the syrup over the plums, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. A little allspice stewed with the fruit is by many persons considered an improvement. Time.—1 hour to stew the plums in water, 1 £ hour in the syrup. Aver- age Cost, 2 s. Sufficient for 7 or S persons. Seasonable in winter. 2197.—PRESERVED PUMPKIN. Ingredients.—To each lb. of pumpkin allow 1 lb. of roughly pounded loaf sugar, 1 gill of lemon-juice. Mode.—Obtain a good sweet pumpkin; halve it, take out the seeds, and pare off the rind ; cut it into neat slices, or into pieces about the size of a five-shilling piece. Weigh the pumpkin, put the slices in a pan or deep dish in layers, with the sugar sprinkled between them; pour the lemon- juice over the top, and let the whole remain for 2 or 3 days. Boil altogether, adding half a pint of water to every 3 lbs. of sugar used, until the pumpkin becomes tender; then turn the whole into a pan, where let it remain for a week ; then drain off the syrup, boil it until it is quite thick ; skim, and pour it, boiling, over the pumpkin. A little bruised ginger, and lemon-rind thinly pared, may be boiled in the syrup to flavour the pumpkin. Time.—From £ to f hour to boil the pumpkin tender. Average Cost, 5^ to -jd per lb. pot.