i6o Recipes for Soups. 322.—POTATO SOUP. (Fr.— Soupe aux Pommes de Terre.) {Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of shin of beef, 1 lb. of potatoes, 1 onion, 2 oz. of rice, a few outside leaves of celery, pepper and salt to taste, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut the beef into thin slices, chop the potatoes and onion and put them in a stewpan with the water, peas and rice. Stew gently till the gravy is drawn from the meat; strain it off, take out the beef, and pulp the other ingredients through a coarse sieve. Put the pulp back in the soup, cut up the celery in it, and simmer till this is tender. Season, and serve with fried bread in it. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, qrf. per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 12 persons. 323.—POTATO SOUP. (Very Economical.) Ingredients.—1^ lbs. of potatoes well pared, a thick slice of bres<?, r„ stick of celery, 6 leeks peeled and cut into thin slices as far as the white extends upwards from the roots ; a tea-cupful of rice or sago, a teaspoon- ful of salt, and half that of pepper, and 3 quarts of water, or milk and water. Mode.—The water must be completely boiling before anything is put into it; then add the whole of the ingredients at once, with the exception of the rice, the salt and the pepper. Cover, and let these come to k brisk boil, put in the others, and let the whole boil slowly for an hour, or till all the ingredients are thoroughly done, and their several juices extracted and mixed. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 2d. per quart. Sufficient for 12 persons. Seasonable in winter. The Potato.— Humboldt doubted whether this root was a native of South America; but it has been found growing wild both in Chili and Buenos Ayres. It was first brought to Spain from the neighbourhood of Quito, in the early part of the sixteenth century, first to England ftom Virginia, in 1586, and first planted by Sir Walter Raleigh, on his estate of Youghal, near Cork, in Ireland. Thence it was brought and planted in Lancashire, in England, and was, at first, recommended to be eaten as a delicate dish, and not as common food. This was in 1587. Nutritious properties: — Of a hundred parts of the potato, 75 are water, IS starch, 2\ fibrin and albumen, 1 mineral water. potatoes. 324.—POMERANIAN SOUP. Ingredients.—i quart of white beans, i head of celery, sweet herbs, parsley, salt and pepper, i quart of stock, No. 27s.