240 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 503. —RED MULLET GRILLED. (Fz.—Rougets Grille*.) Ingredients.—3 fair-sized fish, 2 oz. of butter, a handful of parsley, pepper, salt and the juice of a lemon. Mode.—After cleaning the fish replace the livers with some finely chopped parsley and seasoning mixed with butter. Wrap each fish in an oiled paper, sprinkling over them some of the seasoning, and grill them over a red fire, holding a salamander above so as to avoid turning them. When done, squeeze the juice of the lemon over them and serve. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time, but most plentiful in summer. Sufficient for 3 persons. 504. —RED MULLET IN CASES. (Fz.—Rougets en Papillotte.) Ingredients.—Oiled paper, thickening of butter and flour, £ a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 glass of sherry, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Clean the fish, take out the gills, but leave the inside; fold in oiled paper, and bake them gently. When done, take the liquor that flows from the fish, add a thickening of butter kneaded with flour, put in the other ingredients, and let it boil for 2 minutes. Serve the sauce with the fish, either with or without the paper cases. Sometimes a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, herbs, shalot and mushroom powder is put in the paper with the fish, and a little only of the sauce. Time.—About 25 minutes. Avemge Cost, IS. each, exclusive of sauce. Seasonable at any time, but more plentiful in summer. Note.—Red mullet may be broiled, and should be folded in oiled paper, the same as in the preceding recipe, and seasoned with pepper and salt. They may be served without sauce, but if any is required, use melted butter, Italian or anchovy sauce. They should never be plainly boiled. The Striped Red Mullet.—This fish was very highly esteemed by the ancients, especially by the Romans, who gave the most extravagant prices for it. Those of 2 lbs. weight were valued at about £15 each ; those of 4 lbs. at {60, and, in the reign of Tiberius, three of them were sold for £209. To witness the changing loveliness of their colour during their dying agonies, was one of the principal reasons that such a high price was paid for one of these fishes. This mullet frequents our Cornish and Sussex coasts, and is in high re- quest, the flesh being firm, white and well-flavoured. THE STRIPED RED MULLET. D 505—RED MULLET WITH TARTAR SAUCE. (Fz.—Rougets Sauce Tartare.) Prepare and cook the fish as in recipe No. 503, but without the paper cases, and serve with Tartar sauce (see Sauces).