474 General Observations on the Sheep and Lamb or second bag, is passed into the mouth, which it now becomes the pleasure of the sheep to grind under his molar teeth into a soft smooth pulp, the operation being further assisted by a flow of saliva, answering the double purpose of increasing the flavour of the aliment and promoting the solvency of the mass. ,Having com- pletely comminuted and blended this mouthful, it is swallowed a second time, but instead of returning to the paunch or reticulum, it passes through another valve into a side cavity—the omasum, whence, after a maceration in more saliva for some hours, it glides by the same contrivance into the fourth pouch—the abomasum, an apartment in all respects analogous to the ordinary stomach of animals, and where the process of digestion, begun and carried on in the previous three, is consummated, and the nutrient principle, by means of the bile, eliminated from the digested aliment. ■ Such is the process of digestion in sheep and oxen. 1043. No other Animal, even of the same order, possesses in so remark- able a degree the power of converting pasture into flesh as the Leicestershire sheep; the South-Down and Cheviot, the two next breeds in quality, are, in consequence of the greater vivacity of the animal’s nature, not equal to it in that respect, though in both the brain and chest are kept subservient to the greater capacity of the organs of digestion. Besides the advantage of increased bulk and finer fleeces, the breeder seeks to obtain an augmented deposit of tissue in those parts of the carcase most esteemed as food, or what are called in the trade “ prime joints ; ” and so far has this been effected that the compara- tive weight of the hind-quarters over the fore has become a test of quality in the breed, the butchers in some markets charging twopence a pound more for that portion of the sheep. Indeed, so superior are the hind-quarters of mutton now regarded, that very many of Ibe West-end butchers never deal in any other part of the sheep. 1044. The Difference in the Quality of the Flesh in various breeds is a well-established fact, not alone in flavour, but also in tenderness; and that the nature of the pasture on which the sheep is fed influences the flavour of the meat, is equally certain, and shown in the estimation in which those flocks are held which have grazed on the thymy heath of Bamstead, in Sussex. It is also a well-established truth, that the larger the frame of the animal, the coarser is the meat, and that small bones are both guarantees for the fineness of the breed and the delicacy of the flesh. The sex, too, has much to do in deter- mining the quality of the meat ; in the males, the lean is closer in fibre, deeper in colour, harder in texture, less juicy, and freer from fat, than in the female, and is consequently tougher and more difficult of digestion ; but, probably, age, and the character of the pasturage on which they are reared, has, more than any other cause, an influence on the quality and tenderness of the meat. 1045. The numerous Varieties of sheep inhabiting the different regions of the earth have been reduced by Cuvier to three, or at most four, species; the Ovis Ammon, or the Argali, the presumed parent stock of all the rest; the Ovis Tragelaphus, the bearded sheep of Africa ; the Ovis Musmon, the Musmon of Southern Europe; and the Ovis Montana, the Mouflon of America; though it is believed by many naturalists that this last is so nearly identical with the Indian Argali as to be undeserving a separate place. It is still a controversy to which of these three we are indebted for the many breeds of modern domestication; the Argali, however, by general belief, has been considered as the most probable progenitor of the present varieties. 1046. The Effects produced by Change of Climate, accident, and other causes, must have been great to accomplish so complete a physical altera- tion as the primitive Argali must have undergone before the Musmon, or Mouflon