Men Servants' Duties. 1464 will leave it straight and level, which will be a foot from the tail. Put the roller round, and the pad-piece under it, about six or eight inches from the fore-legs. The horse’s head is now loosened ; he is turned about in his stall to have his head and ears rubbed and brushed over every part, including throat, with the dusting-cloth, finishing by “ pulling his ears,” which all horses seem to enjoy very much. This done, the mane and foretop should be combed out, passing a wet sponge over them, sponging the mane on both sides, by throwing it back to the midriff, to make it lie smooth. The horse is now turned to his head-stall, his tail combed out, cleaning it of stains with a wet brush or sponge, trimming both tail and mane, and forelock when necessary, smoothing them down with a brush on which a little oil has been dropped. 3244. Watering usually follows dressing ; but some horses refuse their food until they have drunk : the groom should not, therefore, lay down exclusive rules on this subject, but study the temper and habits of his horse. The water given to a horse merits some attention ; it should not be too cold; hard water is not to be recommended ; stagnant or muddy water is positively injurious ; soft water is the best for all purposes ; and anything is preferable to spring water, which should be exposed to the sun in summer for an hour or two, and stirred up before using it ; a handful of oatmeal thrown into the pail will much improve its quality. 3245. Exercise.—All horses not in work require at least two hours’ exercise daily, and in exercising them a good groom will put them through the paces to which they have been trained. In the case of saddle horses, he will walk, trot, canter and gallop them, in order'to keep them up to their work. With draught horses they ought to be kept up to a smart walk and trot. 3246. Feeding must depend on their work, but they require feeding three times a day, with more of less corn each time, according,to their work. In the fast coaching days it was a saying among proprietors, that “ his belly was the measure of his food ; ” but the horse’s appetite is not to be taken as a criterion of the quantity of food under any circumstances. Horses have been known to consume 40 lbs. of hay in twenty-four hours, whereas 16 lbs. to 18 lbs. is the utmost which should have been given. Mr. Croall, an extensive coach proprietor in Scotland, limited his horses to 4^ lbs. of cut straw, 8 lbs. of bruised oats, and 24 lbs of bruised beans, in the morning and noon, giving them at night 25 lbs. of the following; viz., 560 lbs. of steamed potatoes, 36 lbs. of barley dust, 40 lbs. of cut straw, and 6 lbs. of salt, mixed up together ; under this the horses did their work well. Ten to 12 lbs. of hay a day are ample for carriage or saddle hacks ; 8 lbs. with five feeds of corn a day for hunters in strong work. Time for Feeding, &c. —An experienced horseman gives the follow- ing rules:-—Between 5 and 6 a.m. feed and water (about a quart); between 6 and 7 a.m. exercise for an hour, unsaddle him; and between 8 and 8.30 a.m. dress him (an hour’s work), clean up stable fair; feed again, and water (more than before) ; if not going out, let him lie down if he will ; between 3 and 4 p.m. feed, and half bucket of water; between 7 and 8 p.m. bed up, clean up stall, water (pint), and feed. You cannot take up a paper with- out having the question put, “ Do you bruise your oats ? ” Well, that depends on SADDLE RACK.