Gooseberry Tart. 843 berries are soft enough to pulp ; then beat them through a coarse sieve, and to every pint of pulp add 3 well-whisked eggs, oz. butter, half a pint of bread-crumbs, and sugar to taste; beat the mixture well, put a border of puff-paste round the edge of a pie-dish, put in the pudding, bake for about 40 minutes, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. Time.—About 40 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from May to July. 1782.-BOILED GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Ingredients.—J lb. of suet crust, No. 1684, i^pint of green gooseberries, | lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line a pudding-basin with suet crust, No. 1684, roll out to about half an inch in thickness, and, with a pair of scissors, cut offkthe tops and tails of the gooseberries ; fill the basin with the fruit, boiled fruit pudding. put in the sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of the pudding together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil from to 3 hours ; turn it out of the basin, and serve with a jug of cream. Time.—2^ to 3 hours. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from May to July. 1783.—GOOSEBERRY TART. Ingredients.—if pint of gooseberries, i lb. short-crust, No. 1680, J lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—With a pair of scissors cut off the tops and tails of the goose- berries; put them into a deep pie-dish, pile the fruit high in the centre, and put in the sugar; line the edge of the dish with short-crust, put on the cover, and ornament the edges of the tart; bake in a good oven for about three-quarters of an hour, and before being sent to table, strew over it some fine-sifted sugar. A jug of cream, or a dish of boiled or baked custards, should always accompany this dish. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, 101. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from May to July. Gooseberries.—The red and the white are the two principal varieties of gooseberries. The red are rather the more acid; but, when covered with white sugar, are most wholesome, because the sugar neutralizes their acidity. Red gooseberries make an excellent jelly, which is light and refreshing, but not very nourishing. It is good for bilious and plethoric persons, and to invalids generally who reed light and digestible food. It is a fruit from which many dishes might be made. Ah soitr of gooseberries are agreeable when stewed, and, in this country especially, there is no frui. so universally in favour. In Scotland there is scarcely a cottage-garden without it* gooseberry bushes. Several of the species are cultivated with the nicest care.