CHAPTER XLI. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE & EGGS. MILK. 2552. Milk is obtained only from the class of animals called Mammalia, and is intended by Nature for the nourishment of their young. All young animals live upon it, and it alone, for the first months of life, and it is the only food that, taken alone, can support adult life. The fat rises in the form of cream ; curd is the nitrogenous matter, and the whey contains sugar of milk or lactose with saline or mineral matter. For the majority of those who lead wholesome, simple lives, milk is an excellent article of diet; but the milk of each amimal is distinguished by some peculiarities, and as that of the cow is by far the most useful to us in this part of the world, our observations will chiefly relate to that variety. When drawn from the cow, it is of a yellowish-white colour, and is the most yellow at the beginning of the period of lactation. Its taste is agree- able, and rather saccharine. The specific gravity of milk is somewhat greater than that of water, but varies somewhat in the milk procured from different in- dividuals. On an average, the specific gravity of milk is 1030, water being 1. 2553. Milk, as it is drawn from the cotv, is slightly alkaline, but afterwards lactic acid is formed, so that it becomes at first neutral, then acid, and the acidity goes on increasing until it is easily perceptible to taste. This acidity is said to assist in the rising of the cream. As a rule, all milk that is sold in town is more or less acid. Most schemes for preserving milk'fresh consist in the addi- tion of some alkali to correct this acidity. A pinch of bicarbonate of soda is effica- cious, and with it decidedly sour milk can often be boiled without curdling, but it gives an unpleasant flavour. Preparations are sold of which the principal con- stituent is boracic acid, and it is said that most of the milk that comes to London is treated in this way. Fortunately for the consumer, it is a quite harmless addition,