722 General Observations on Vegetables. growth to arrive at the diameter of two feet, the date of its being planted would seem to have been 1085, or about twenty years after the Conquest. 1511. Considering the great Endurance of these Trees, we are necessarily led to inquire into the meaus by which they are enabled to arrive at such strength and maturity. “ Plants have been described by naturalists who would determine the limits of the two kingdoms as organised living bodies, without volition or locomotion, destitute of a mouth or intestinal cavity, which, when detached from their place of growth, die, and, in decay, ferment, but do not putrefy, and which, on being subjected to analysis, furnish an excess of carbon and no nitrogen. The powers of chemistry and of the microscope, however, in- stead of confirming these views, tend more and more to show that a still closer affinity exists between plants and animals ; for it is now ascertained that nitrogen, which was believed to be present only in animals, enters largely into the compo- sition of plants also. When the microscope is brought to aid our powers of ob- servation, we find that there are organised bodies belonging to the vegetable kingdom which possess very evident powers of locomotion, and which change CELLULAR DEVELOPMENT. about in so very remakable a manner that no other cause than that of volition can be assigned to it.” Thus, some vegetables bear a very close resemblance to animal life ; and when y/e consider the manner in which they are supplied with nourishment, and perform the functions of their existence, the resemblance would seem still closer. If, for example, we take a thin, transverse slice of the stem of any plant, or a slice cut across its stem, and immerse it in a little pure water, and place it under a microscope, we shall find that it consists principally of cells, more or less regular, and resembling those of a honeycomb, or a network of cobweb. The size of these varies in different plants, as it does in different parts of the same plant, and they are sometimes so minute as to require a million to cover a square inch. This singular structure, besides containing water and air, is the repository or storehouse of various secretions. Through it, the sap, when pro- duced, is diffused sideways through the plant, and by it numerous changes are effected in the juices which fill its cells. The forms of the cells are various ; they are also subject to various transformations. Sometimes a number of cylindrical cells are laid end to end, and, by the absorption of the transverse partitions, form a continuous tube, as in the sap-vessels of plants, or in muscular and nervous- fibre; and when cells are thus woven together, they are called cellular tissue,, which, in the human body, forms a fine, net-like membrane, enveloping or con- necting most of its structures. In pulpy fruits, the cells may be easily separated?-