Moulded Calf’s Head. 439 Seasonable from March to October. 97?-—CALF’S HEAD, WITH PARSLEY AND LEMON SAUCE. (Fr.—T£te de Veau a la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—The remains of a cold calfs head, rather more than i pint of Maitre d’hotel sauce, No. 731. Mode.—Make the sauce by recipe No. 731, and have it sufficiently thick that it may nicely cover the meat; remove the bones from the head, and cut the meat into neat slices. When the sauce is ready, lay in the meat; let it gradually warm through, and, after it boils up, let it sim- mer very gently for 5 minutes, and serve. Time.—Rather more than hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, is. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 978.—CAPITAL DISH FROM COLD VEAL OR FOWL. Ingredients.—Remains of cold veal or fowl, parsley, shalot, pepper, salt, vinegar, butter, hot lard. Mode.—Divide the meat or fowl into neat pieces, chop the shalot and parsley and mix with vinegar, salt, and pepper, then dip the pieces of meat in. Prepare a frying-pan, by putting in sufficient lard to fry the pieces, and as soon as it is ready, put a small bit of butter on each piece of meat and fry of a dark brown colour. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, 4d., exclusive of meat. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 979-MOULD ED CALF’S HEAD. (Fr.—Tete de Veau en Aspic.) Ingredients.—The remains of a calfs head, some thin slices of ham or bacon, 6 or 8 eggs boiled hard, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, pepper, mixed spice, and parsley, £ pint of good white gravy, or stock, No. 278. Mode.—Cut the head into thin slices. Butter a tin mould, cut the yolks of eggs in half, and put some of them round the tin in a pattern: sprinkle some of the parsley, spice, &c., over it; then put in the head and the bacon in layers, adding occasionally more eggs and spice till the whole of the head is used. Pour in the gravy, cover the top with a thin paste of flour and water, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Take off the paste, and when cold, turn it out. Time.—From f to 1 hour to bake the preparation. Average Cost exclusive of the veal, is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 persons.