1238 Recipes for*’Invalid Cookery. onion and celery instead of the sugar. The lemon-peel may be added in any case. The egg may be omitted if it is not liked, a little cream might also be added. It is directed that small moulds shall be used. For an invalid, it is better to set just as much as is wanted for one meal rather than to cut a piece out of a large quantity. 2789.—BAKED OR STEWED CALF’S FOOT. Ingredients.—1 calf’s foot, I pint of milk, i pint of water, 1 blade of mace, the rind of £ a lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Well clean the foot, and either stew or bake it in the milk and water with the other ingredients from 3 to 4 hours. To enhance the flavour, an onion and a small quantity of celery may be added, if ap- proved ; half a teacupful of cream, stirred in just before serving, is also a great improvement to this dish ; a cowheel is cheaper. What remains of the foot may be cut in pieces, egged-and-breadcrumbed and fried, or may be warmed up in some simple sauce. Time.—3 or 4 hours. Average Cost, in full season, 9d. each. Sufficient for 1 person. Seasonable from March to October. 2790—CALF’S-FOOT BROTH. Ingredients.—I calf’s foot, 3 pints of water, 1 small lump of sugar, nutmeg to taste, the yolk of 1 egg, a piece of butter the size of a nut. Mode.—Stew the foot in the water, with the lemon-peel, very gently until the liquid is half wasted, removing any scum, should it rise to the surface. Set it by in a basin until quite cold, then take off every particle of fat. Warm up about half a pint of the broth, adding the butter, sugar, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg; take it off the fire for a minute or two, then add the beaten yolk of the egg; keep stirring over the fire until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil again after the egg is added, or it will curdle and the broth will be spoiled. Time.—To be boiled until the liquid is reduced one half. Average Cost, in full season, gd. each. Sufficient to make pint of broth. Seasonable from March to October. 2791— CHICKEN BROTH FOR INVALIDS. Ingredients.—| a fowl, or the inferior joints of a whole one, 1 quart of water, 1 blade of mace, % onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, salt to taste, 10 peppercorns. Mode.--If a young one be used for this broth, the inferior joints may