Tables of Different Size. 1337 As we have said before, rooms so vary that no hard and fast rule can be laid down, but it is pretty safe to exclude both light and air during the day, and to let them in when the first has lost its heat and glare and the latter has grown cooler, which is generally the case before the hour of dinner, also to have plenty of cool-looking foliage, ferns, &c., disposed in the fireplaces and round the room, while if a fountain is practicable in a conservatory adjoining, or an alcove, or even a fireplace (as I have seen some done by Dick Radclyffe), the sound of falling water, if it does not really affect the temperature, seems to give an additional coolness to the atmosphere. 3046. Lighting.—Next we come to the lighting of the room, by no means a small matter. For this purpose nothing could be better than the single large hanging lamp now so fashionable, though it should be remembered that one lamp is not always sufficient to light a very long table. The thing to be arrived at for comfort and effect is that a pleasant and suffi- cient light should be thrown from above, and concentrated upon the table and guests, whilst the remainder of the room may be in comparative shadow, with only enough light to enable the servants to do t'y.fir work. This is, as we have said before, most easily ; chieved by a hanging lamp, while in the case of a very long table, some additional light will probably be needed. For this purpose we may mention that the little lamps of tinted transparent glass with shades which are made to fit into candlesticks, are very good. Most people have tall, old fashioned candlesticks, put aside as out of date, and we would advise them to try these little lamps in them, which, raised in this way, give an excellent light, and take up very little room. These will also be found useful where a hanging lamp cannot be put up, and the light from the sides of the room is not sufficient. Few people care for gas now in a dining-room, but it is undoubtedly useful 1o have it laid on at the sides, though, as we have before said, the main light should be concentrated upon the table itself, of which we must not forget to speak. 3047. Tables of Different Size.—The happy possessors of more than one dining-room are in the minority, but we hold that to have a small as well as a large one is very convenient for the reason that the table should as nearly as possible correspond with the size of the room, while it ought to be proportionate to the number of the guests. In a room capable of dining comfortably, say thirty people, a table about large enough for six looks lost, and yet it is not well to scatter the guests round a large one. The large, old fashioned, oblong table, which wasted so much room at either end, has now given place to the oval or round, and the host and hostess, as a rule, having nothing to carve, have no more room allotted to them than any- one else. To our mind, a round table is pretty and more comfortable than any other ; it is easy to see everyone round it, and it therefore promotes conversation, but. as a rule, the large dining-room is not of the shape to accommodate one ; but if a smaller room is also used, it will be found a convenient shape for a small number, while an extra leaf will make it a slight oval, and accommodate two or four more. For the large room the oval is generally the most convenient, and it is best to have both large and small leaves to lengthen it. 3048. Allotvance of Room.—A good rule is to allow 24 inches for each person’s accommodation. Where the table is necessarily a little too large, a little more room does not matter, but on no account give less, fbr there is no greater misery than crowding.