Fillets of Blackcock. 693 and pour found a very little gravy; send some more to table in a tureen. These are most delicious birds when well cooked, but they should not be kept too long; when the feathers drop, or easily come out, they are fit for table. Time.—When liked underdone, 15 to 20 minutes ; if liked well done, allow an extra 5 minutes. Average Cost, 4s. to 6s. per brace. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to February. The Woodcock.—This bird being migratory in its habits, has consequently, no settled habits* tion ; it cannot be considered as the property of anyone, and is, therefore, not game by law. It breeds in high northern latitudes,and the time of its appearance and disappearance in Sweden coincides exactly with that of its arrival in and return from Great Britain. On the coast of Suffolk its vernal and autumal visits have been accurately observed. In the first week of October it makes its appearance in small numbers, but in November and December it appTars in large numbers, and always after sunset, and most grega- riously. In the same manner as woodcocks take their leave of us, they quit France, Germany and Italy, making the northern and colder climates their summer rendez- vous. They visit Burgundy in the latter part of October, but continue there only a few weeks, the country being hard, and unable to supply them with such sustenance as they require. In the winter, they are found as far south as Smyrna and Aleppo, and during the same season, in Barbary, where the Africans name them “ the ass of the partridge.” It has been asserted that they have been seen as far south as Egypt, which is the mdst remote region to which they can be traced on that side of the eastern world ; on the other side, they are common in Japan. Those which resort to the countries of the Levant are supposed to come from the mountains of Armenia, or the deserts of Tartary or Siberia. The flesh of the woodcock is held in high estimation : hence the bird is eagerly sought after by the sportsman, GAME ENTREES. 1422.—FI LLETS OF BLACKCOCK A LA FINANCIER E. (Fr.—Filets de Coq de Bruy^re k la Financiere.) Ingredients.—2 Blackcocks, i pint of weak stock, cayenne and salt to taste, financiere sauce, No. 710. Mode.—Cut the birds into neat fillets and stew in the stock till tender ; put them on an entree dish, squeeze over a few drops of lemon and pour over a good financiere sauce. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 5s. per brace. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable in autumn, 2 £