674 Recipes for Cooking Game. 1392.—ROAST WILD DUCK. (Fr.—Canard Sauvage Roti.) v? Ingredients.—Wild duck, flour, butter. ■ Mode.—Having trussed the birds, roast them before a quick fire, and, when they are first put down, let them remain for five minutes without basting, this will keep the gravy in; afterwards baste plentifully with butter, and a few minutes before serving dredge them lightly with flour ; iMr ^ ./*§g>) baste well, and send them to table nicely frothed, and full of gravy. If overdone, the birds will lose their flavour. Serve with a ROAST WILD DUCK. good gravy in the dish, No. 614, or orange gravy; and send to table with them a cut lemon, garnishing with the same. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, baste them for a few minutes with hot water to which have been added an onion and a little salt; then take away the pan and baste with butter. Time.—When liked underdressed, 20 to 25 minutes ; well done, 2.5 to 35 minutes. Average Cost, 4S. the brace. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from November to February. • The Wild Duck.—The male of the wild duck is called a mallard ; and the young ones are called flappers. The time to try to find a brood of these is about the month of July, among the rushes of the deepest and most retired parts of some brook or stream, where, if the old bird is sprung, it may be taken as a certainty that its brood is not far off. When once found, flappers are easily killed, as they attain their full growth before their wings are fledged. Consequently the sport is more like hunting water-rats than shooting birds. When the flappers take wing, they assume the name of wild ducks, and about the month of August repair to the corn-fields, where they remain until .they are disturbed by the harvest-people. They then frequent the rivers pretty early in the evening, and give excellent sport to those, who have patience to wait for them. In order to know a wild duck, it is necessary only to look at the claws, which should be black. I393—IPOTTED GAME (of any kind). Ingredients.—Remains of cold game, pounded mace, allspice, cayenne, black pepper, salt, x lump of sugar, ham or butter. Mode.—Free the game from skin and bone, and pound it in a mortar, then add the seasonings. Pound an equal quantity of cold ham, or, if not at hand, the same amount of butter. Mix thoroughly, press into pots, and cover with clarified butter. When required for use, dish it on an afepic, and garnish with fresh parsley.. Seasonable at any time.