Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 185 382.—TURTLE SOUP. (Fr.—Potage Tortue.) (Founded on M. Ude’s Recipe.) Ingredients.—A turtle, 6 slices of ham, 2 knuckles) of veal, 1 large bunch of sweet herbs, 3 bay-leaves, parsley, green onions, 1 onion, 6 cloves, 3 blades of mace, £ lb. of fresh butter, 1 bottle of Madeira, 1 lump of sugar. For the Quenelles cl Tortue, 1 lb. of veal, 1 lb. of bread- crumbs, milk, 7 eggs, cayenne, salt, spices, chopped parsley, the juice of 2 lemons. Mode.—To make this soup with less difficulty, cut off the head of the turtle the preceding day. In the morning open the turtle by leaning heavily with a knife on the shell of the animal’s back, whilst you cut this off all round. Turn it upright on its end, that all the water, &c« may run out, when the flesh should be cut off along the spine, with the knife sloping towards the bones, for fear of touching the gall, which sometimes may escape the eye. When all the flesh about the members is obtaiued, wash these clean, and let them drain. Have ready, on the fire, a large vessel full of boiling water, into which put the shells; and when you perceive that they come off easily, take them out of the water, and prick them all, with those of the back, belly, fins, head, &c. Boil the back and belly till the bones can be taken out, without, how- ever, allowing the softer parts to be sufficiently done, as they will be boiled again in the soup. When these latter come off easily, lay them on earthen dishes singly, for fear they should stick together, and put them to cool. Keep the liquor in which you have blanched the softer parts, and let the bones stew thoroughly in it, as this liquor is of value to moisten sauces. All the flesh of the interior parts, the four legs and head, must be drawn down in the following manner:—Lay the slices of ham on the bottom of a very large stewpan, over them the knuckles of veal, ac- cording to the size of the turtle; then the inside flesh of the turtle, and, over the whole, the members. Now moisten with the water in which you are boiling the shell, and draw it down thoroughly. It may now be ascertained if it be thoroughly done by thrusting a knife into the fleshy part of the meat. If no blood appears, it is time to moisten it again with the liquor in which the bones, &c., have been boiling. Put in a large bunch of all such sweet herbs as are adapted for the cooking of a tur-tle—sweet basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, winter savory, 2 or 3 bay leaves, common thyme, a handful of parsley and green onions, and a large onion stuck with 6 cloves. Let the whole be thoroughly done. With respect to the members, probe them, to see if they are done, and if so, drain and send them to the larder, as they are to make their appearance only when the soup is