1532 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. of potass or soda. Blow off as much dust as possible from the frames, and paint them over with a soft brush dipped in the above mixture. They will immediately come out fresh and bright. 3432.—TO TAKE OUT MARKS FROM MAHOGANY. The whitish stain left on a mahogany table by a jug of boiling water, or a very hot dish, may be removed by rubbing in oil, and afterwards pouring a little spirits of wine on the spot and rubbing it dry with a soft cloth. 3433—TO CLEAN LOOKING-GLASSES. Remove, with a damp sponge, fly stains and other soils (the sponge may be damped with water or spirits of wine). After this dust the surface with the finest sifted whiting or powder-blue, and polish it with a silk handkerchief or soft cloth. Snuff of candle, if quite free from grease, is an excellent polish for looking-glass. 3434.—CEMENT FOR CHINA AND GLASS. Dissolve an ounce of gum-mastic in a quantity of highly-rectified spirits of wine ; then soften an ounce of isinglass in warm water, and, finally, dissolve it in rum or brandy, till it forms a thick jelly. Mix the isinglass and gum-mastic together, adding a quarter of an ounce of finely-powdered gum-ammoniac; put the whole into an earthen pipkin, and in a warm place, till they are thoroughly incorporated together; pour it into a small phial, and cork it down for use. In using it, dissolve a small piece of the cement in a silver teaspoon over a lighted candle. The broken pieces of glass or china being warmed, and touched with the now liquid cement, join the parts neatly together, and hold them in their places till the cement has set; then wipe away the cement adhering to the edge of the joint, and leave it for twelve horns without touching it: the joint will be as strong as the china itself, and if neatly done, it will show no joining. It is essential that neither of the pieces be wetted either with hot or cold water. 3435—TO CLEAN WALL PAPER. If not very dirty, the paper of any room will be much improved by brushing it over in straight lines with a soft broom, covered with a clean, soft cloth; if, however, the paper be much soiled, very stale bread is the best thing to clean it with. Cut a very stale quartern loaf into slices, and, in the lightest manner possible, wipe the paper with it in a downward direction. Clean about a yard at a time, all one way, and be careful to leave no marks. By this process very dirty paper-hangings may be made to look almost like new.