Lard Crust. every day, by upwards of ro.ooo small pipes, not above one-third of an inch in diameter. The water was received in large closed basins, above which rose splendid monuments ; these basins supplied other subterranean conduits, connected with other quarters of the city, and these conveyed water to small reservoirs furnished with taps for the exclusive use of certain streets. The water which was not drinkable, ran out, by means of large pipes, into extensive enclosures, where it served to water cattle. At these places the people washed their linen ; and here, too, was a supply of this necessary element in case of fire. 1686.—COMMON CRUST. (For Raised Pies.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow £ pint of water, i| oz. of butter, 1^ oz. of lard, | saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Put into a saucepan the water ; when it boils, add the butter and lard ; and when these are melted, make a hole in the middle of-the flour; pour in the water gradually; beat it well with a wooden spoon, and be particular in not making the paste too soft. When it is well mixed, knead it with the hands until quite stiff, dredging a little flour over the paste and board, to prevent them from sticking. When it is well kneaded, place it before the fire, with a cloth covered over it, for a few minutes; it will then be more easily worked into shape. This paste does not taste so nicely as the preceding one, but is worked with greater facility, and answers just as well for raised pies, for the crust is seldom eaten. Average Cost, 4 d. per lb. 1687.—EXCELLENT CRUST FOR RAISED PIES. (See Game Pie with Jelly.) Ingredients.—Lard, dripping, flour, salt, water. Mode.—Boil lard, good and fine, in water; add as much excellent dripping as there is lard ; there must not be much of either. When still not, mix it with as much flour as you have calculated will do for youn purpose. Make the paste stiff and smooth by kneading, and also by beat- ing it with a rolling-pin. When perfectly smooth, put a ball of it by in a, cloth till cold, then use. 1688.-LARD OR PLEAD CRUST. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow £ lb. of lard or flead, £ pint of water, £ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Clear the flead free from skin, and slice it into thin flakes; rub it into the flour, add the salt, and work the whole into a smooth paste, with the above proportion of water; fold the paste over two or three times, beat it well with the rolling-pin, roll it out, and it will be ready for use. The crust made from this will be found extremely light, and may be made into cakes or tarts; it may also be very much enriched by adding more flead to the same proportion of flour. Average Cost, 6d. per lb.