Slovenly Habits of the Pig. 523 1144. Though the Hoof in the Hog is, as a general rule, cloven, there are several remarkable exceptions, as in the species native to Norway, Illyria, Sardinia and formerly to the Berkshire variety of the British domes- ticated pig, in which the hoof is entire and ««cleft. 1145. Whatever difference in its Physical Nature climate and soil may produce in this animal, his functional characteristics are the same in whatever part of the world he may be found; and whether in the trackless forests of South America, the coral Isles of Polynesia, the Jungles of India, or the spicy brakes of Sumatra, he is everywhere known for his gluttony, laziness and indifference to the character and quality of his food. And though he occasionally shows an epicure's relish for a succulent plant or a luscious carrot, which he will discuss with all his salivary organs keenly excited, he will, the next moment, turn with equal gusto to some carrion offal that might excite the forbearance of the unscrupulous cormorant. It is this coarse and repulsive mode of feeding that has, in every country and language, obtained for him the opprobrium ofbeing " an unclean animal.” 1146. In the Ulosaic Paw, the pig is condemned as an unclean beast, and consequently interdicted to the Israelites, as unfit for human food. “ And the swine, though he divideth the hoof and be cloven-footed, yet he cheweth not the cud. He is unclean to you.”—Lev. xi. 7. Strict, however, as the law was respecting the cud-chewing and hoof-divided animals, the Jews, with their usual perversity and violation of the divine commands, seem afterwards to have ignored the prohibition ; for, unless they eat pork, it is difficult to con- ceive for what purpose they kept droves of swine, as from the circumstance recorded in Matthew, xviii. 32, when Jesus was in Galilee, and the devils, cast out of the two men, were permitted to enter the herd of swine that were feeding on the hills in the neighbourhood of the Sea of Tiberias, it is very evident they did. There is only one interpretation by which we can account for a prohibition that debarred the Jews from so many foods which we regard as nutritious luxuries: that, being fat and the texture more hard of digestion than other meats, they were likely, in a hot, dry climate, where vigorous exercise could seldom be taken, to produce disease, and especially cutaneous affections; indeed, in this light, as a code of sanitary ethics, the book of Leviticus is the most admirable system of moral government ever conceived for man’s benefit. 1147. Setting his Coarse Feeding and Slovenly Habits out of the question, there is no domestic animal so profitable or so useful to man as the much-maligned pig, or any that yields him a more varied or more luxu- rious repast. The prolific powers of the pig are extraordinary, even under the restraint of domestication ; but when left to run wild in favourable situa- tions, as in the islands of the South Pacific, the result, in a few years, from two animals put on shore and left undisturbed, is truly surprising ; for they breed so fast, and have such numerous litters, that unless killed off in vast numbers both for the use of the inhabitants and as fresh provisions for ships’ crews, they would degenerate into vermin. In this country the pig has usually two litters, or farrows, in a year, the breeding seasons being April and October; and the period the female goes with her young is about four months, 16 weeks or 122 days. The number produced at each litter depends upon the character of the breed ; 12 being the average number in the small variety, and 10 in the large; in the mixed breeds, however, the average is between 10 and 15, and in some instances has reached as many as 20. But however few or however many young pigs there may be to the farrow, there is always one who is the dwarf of the family circle, a poor, little, shrivelled, half-starved