Recipes for Beverages. 1220 Mode.—In making preparations like the above, it is very difficult to give the exact proportions of ingredients like sugar and spice, as what quantity might suit one person would be to another quite distasteful. Boil the spice in the water until the flavour is extracted, then add the wine and sugar, and bring the whole to the boiling- point, when serve with strips of crisp dry toast, or with biscuits. The spices usually used for mulled wine are cloves, grated nutmeg and cinnamon or mace. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port and claret are those usually selected for the purpose; and the latter requires a very large proportion of sugar. The vessel that the wine is boiled in must be delicately MULL- clean, and should be kept exclusively for the purpose. Small tin warmers may be purchased for a trifle, which are more suitable than saucepans, as, if the latter are not scrupulously clean, they will spoil the wine, by imparting to it a very disagreeable flavour. These warmers should be used for no other purpose. 2740.—TO MAKE HOT PUNCH. Ingredients.—I pint of rum, £ pint of brandy, \ lb. of sugar, 1 large lemon, 4 teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 pint of boiling water. Mode.—Rub the sugar over the lemon until it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skin, then put the sugar into a punchbowl; add the lemon-juice (free from pips), and mix these two ingredients well together. Pour over them the boiling water, stir well together, add the rum, brandy and nutmeg; mix thoroughly aud the punch will be ready to serve. It is very im- portant in making good punch that all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated ; and to insure success, the processes of mixing must be diligently attended to. Sufficient.—Allow a quart for 4 persons ; but this information must be taken cum gram salts; for the capacities of persons for this kind of beverage are generally supposed to vary considerably. Punch is a beverage made of various spirituous liquors or wine, hot water, the acid juice of fruits, and sugar. It is considered to be very intoxicating; but this is probably because the spirit being partly sheathed by the mucilaginous juice and the sugar, its strength does not appear to the taste so CTeat as it really is. Punch, which was almost universally drunk among the middle classes about fifty or sixty years ago, has almost disappeared from our domestic tables, being superseded by wine. There are many different varieties of punch. It is sometimes kept cold in bottles, and makes a most agreeable summer drink. In Scotland, instead of the Madeira or sherry generally used in its manufacture, whiskey is substituted, and then its insiduous properties are more than usually felt. Where fresh lemons cannot be had for punch or similar beverages, crystallised citric acid and a few drops of the essence of lemon will be very nearly the same thing. In the composition of “ Regent’s punch,” champagne, brandy and veritable Martinique are required; “ Norfolk punch " requires Seville oranges; “milk punch” maybe extemporised by adding a little hot milk to lemonade, and then straining it through a jelly-bag. Then ftere are PUNCH-BOWL AND LADLE.