349 Sauce for Steaks. 771-A GOOD SAUCE FOR VARIOUS BOILED PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter, £ lb. of pounded sugar, a wineglassful of brandy or rum. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream until no lumps remain; add the pounded sugar, and brandy or rum ; stir once or twice until the whole is thoroughly mixed, and serve. This sauce may either be poured round the pudding or served in a tureen, according to the taste or fancy of the cook or mistress. Average Cost, 8d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a pudding. 772-A GOOD SAUCE FOR STEAKS. Ingredients.—1 oz. of whole black pepper, -§• oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of salt, $ oz. of grated horseraddish, £ oz. of pickled shalots, 1 pint of mush- room ketchup or walnut pickle. Mode.—Pound all the ingredients finely in a mortar, and put them into the ketchup or walnut-liquor. Let them stand for a fortnight, when strain off the liquor and bottle for use. Either pour a little of the sauce over the steaks or mix it in the gravy. Seasonable.—This can be made at any time. Note.—In using a jar of pickled walnuts, there is frequently left a large quantity of liquor; this should be converted into a sauce like the above, and will be found a very useful relish. The Growth of the Pepper Plant.—Our readers will see, amongst Pickles, a description, with engravings, of the qualities of black and long pepper, and an account of where these spices are found. We will here say something of the manner of the growth of the pepper-plant. Like the vine, it requires support, and it is usual to plant a thorny tree by its side to which it may cling. In Malabar, the chief pepper district of India, the jacca tree (Artocarpus integrifolia) is made thus to yield its assistance, the same soil being adapted to the growth of both plants. The stem of the pepper-plant entwines round its support to a considerable height; the flexile branches then droop downwards, bearing at their extremities, as well as at other parts, spikes of green flowers, which are followed by the pungent berries. These hang in large bunches, resembling in shape those of grapes ; but the fruit grows distinct, each on a little stalk, like currants. Each berry contains a single seed, of a globular form, and brownish colour, but which changes to a nearly black when dried ; and this is the pepper of commerce. The leaves are not unlike those of the ivy, but are larger and of rather a lighter colour ; they partake strongly of the peculiar smell and pungent taste of the berry. 773 — SAVOURY JELLY FOR MEAT-PIES. (Fr.—Gelee de Veau pour Pates.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of shin of beef, I calfs-foot, 3 lbs. of knuckle of veal, poultry trimmings (if for game-pies, any game trimmings); 2 onions stuck with cloves, 2 carrots, 4 shalots, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 bay- leaves ; when liked, 2 blades of mace and a little spice ; 2 slices of lean ham. rather more than 2 quarts of water.