*465 Duties of the Groom. THE COACHMAN, GROOM AND STABLE BOY. 3242. The Head of the Stables.—The establishment we have in view will consist of coachman, groom and stable-boy, who are capable of keeping in perfect order four horses, and perhaps the pony. Of this establishment the coach- man is chief. Besides skill in driving, he should possess a good general knowledge of horses ; he has usually to purchase provender, to see that the horses are regularly fed and properly groomed, watch over their condition, apply simple remedies to trifling ailments in the animals under his charge, and report where he observes symptoms of more serious ones which he does not understand. He has either to clean the carriage himself, or see that the stable-boy does it properly. 3243. The groom’s first duties are to keep his horses in condition; but he is sometimes expected to perform the duties of a valet, to ride out with his master, on occasions, to wait at table, and otherwise assist in the house ; in these cases, he should have the means of dressing himself, and keeping his clothes entirely away from the stables. In the morning, about six o’clock, or rather before, the stables should be opened and cleaned out, and the horses fed, first by cleaning the rack and throwing in fresh hay, putting it lightly in the rack, that the horses may get it out easily ; a short time afterwards their usual morning feed of oats should be put into the manger. While this is going on, the stable-boy has been removing the stable-dung, and sweeping and wash- ing out the stables, both of which should be done every day, and every corner carefully swept, in order to keep the stable sweet and clean. The real duties of the groom follow : where the horses are not taken out for early exercise, the work of grooming immediately commences. The curry-comb ought not to be necessary if a horse is in good condition, but a good strapping with a damp wisp is the principal thing requisite ; the horse should be strapped so that every hair is touched and cleaned to the root. The best wisp is made from a hay-band, un- twisted, . and again doubled up after being moistened with water; this is applied to every part of the body, as the brushing has been, by changing the hands, taking care in all these operations to carry the hand in the direction of the coat. Stains in the hair are removed- by sponging, or, when the coat is very dirty, by the water-brush ; the whole being finish- ed off by a linen or flannel cloth. The horsecloth should be put on by taking the cloth in both hands, with the outside next you, and with your right hand to the off side, throw it over his back, placing it no farther back than