Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 802 into a soft flexible paste, with the right hand, and handle it a.s little as possible; then squeeze all the buttermilk from the butter, wring it in a cloth, and roll out the paste ; place the butter on this, and fold the edges of the paste over, so as to hide it ; roll it out again to the thickness 01 a quarter of an inch; fold over one third, over which again pass the rolling- pin ; then fold over the other third, thus forming a square ; place it with the ends, top and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over, and repeat the rolls and turn twice again, as before. Flour a baking sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain on ice in some cool place for half an hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before; place it again upon the ice for a quarter of an hour, give it two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is ready for use, when required. 1679—VERY GOOD SHORT CRUST FOR FRUIT TARTS. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow f lb. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of sifted sugar, £ pint of water. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour, after having ascertained that the latter is perfectly dry ; add the sugar, and mix the whole into a stiff paste, with about one-third of a pint of water. Roll it out two or three times, folding the paste over each time, and it will be ready for use. Average Cost, 8d. per lb. 1680.—ANOTHER GOOD SHORT CRUST. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 8 oz. of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, \ pint of milk. Mode. —Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, and mix the whole as lightly as possible to a smooth paste, with the yolks of eggs well beaten, and the milk. The proportion of the latter ingredient must be judged of by the size of the eggs ; if these are large, so much will not be required, and more if the eggs are smaller. Average Cost, 8d. per lb. Sugar and Beetroot.—There are two sorts of beet—white and red ; occasionally, in the south, a yellow variety is met with. Beetroot contains twenty parts sugar. Everybody knows that the beet has competed with the sugar-cane, and a great part of the French sugar is manu- factured from beet. Beetroot has a refreshing, composing and slightly purgative quality. The young leaves, when cooked, are a substitute for spinach; they are also useful for mixing with sorrel, to lessen its acidity. The large ribs of the leaves are serviceable in various culinary preparations; the root also may be prepared in several ways, but its most general use is in salad. Some writers upon the subject have expressed their opinion that beetroot is easily digested, but those who have taken pains to carefully analyse its qualities make quite a contrary statement. Youth, of course, can digest it; but to persons of a certain age beet is very indigestible, or rather, it does not digest at all. It is not the sugar pulp which is indigestible, but its fibrous network that resists the action of the gastric organs. Thus, when the root is reduced to a puree, almost any person may eat it. French Sugar.—It had long been thought that tropical heat was necessary to form sugar, £nd, about 1740, it was discovered that many plants of the temperate zone, and amongst others the beet, contained it Towards the beginning of the 19th century, circumstances having, in