1280 Recipes for French Cookery. quarter of a pound of butter, a little salt and grated nutmeg. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon, bring it to the proper consistency, and add finally a very little lemon-juice. Time for boiling, io to 12 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from November to March. 2911.—PERDREAUX POELES. {Stewed Partridge.) Ingredients.—2 partridges, 1 lemon, some fat bacon, 2 carrots and 2 onions sliced, 1 onion with 2 cloves stuck in it, a little thyme, parsley, salt and pepper, 2 bay leaves, 1 glass of white French wine, £ pint of stock, butter. Mode.—Truss the birds without the heads, put a small lump of butter inside, and skewer the piece of the skin of the neck over it; place two slices of lemon on the breast of each, and cover over with a slice of fat bacon. Put the birds thus prepared into a stewpan with all the other in- gredients, simmer 1 hour, drain, and take off the fat and lemon just before serving. Strain the gravy, remove all the fat, thicken with a little espagnole, or butter and flour made into a paste. Put the sauce under the birds and garnish with stewed mushrooms or a puree of green peas. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. per pair. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable from 1st September to March. 2912 — WOODCOCK A LA CASSEROLE. Ingredients.—2 woodcocks, bacon, parsley, shalots, 2 eggs, 1 glass of white French wine (Sauterne or Chablis), pepper, salt. Mode.— Draw the birds, make a forcemeat by adding to the trails a little bacon, parsley and shalot all chopped fine,'the yolks of two eggs, pepper and salt. Stuff the birds, sew them up and truss as for roasting. Put some slices of bacon in a stewpan, place the birds on them and let them stew for a quarter of an hour. Then add the wine. The birds should be a little underdone. When ready, serve with the sauce round them, add- ing to the latter a few drops of vinegar. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, 3s. each. Sufficient for a dish. Seasonable from November to February.