Vegetable Soups. 157 butter and flour, and serve. It is better to rub the soup through a sievi or colander. Spanish onions make the best soup. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Onion.—Like the cabbage, this plant was erected into an object of worship by '.he idolatrous Egyptians, 2,000 years before the Christian era, and it still forms a favourite food in the country of these people, as well as in other parts of Africa. When it was first introduced to England, has not been ascertained ; but it has long been in use, and esteemed as a iavourite seasoning plant to various dishes. In warmer climates it is much milder in its flavour; and such as are grown in Spain and Portugal, are, comparatively speaking, very large, and are often eaten both in a boiled and roasted state. The Strasburg is the most esteemed ; and although all the species have highly nutritive properties, they impart such a disagreeable odour to the breath, that they are often rejected where they are liked. Chewing a little raw Vflfay parsley is said to remove this odour. onion. 316.—PAN KAIL. (Fr.—Soupe Maigre aux Choux.) Ingredients. —2 lbs. of cabbage, or Savoy greens, £ lb. of butter or dripping, salt and pepper to taste, oatmeal for thickening, 2 quarts ot water. Mode.—Chop the cabbage very fine, thicken the water with oatmeal, put in the cabbage and butter, or dripping; season and simmer for 1^ hour. It can be made sooner by blanching and mashing the greens, adding any good liquor that a joint has been boiled in, and then further thicken with bread or pounded biscuit. Time.—1^ hour. Average Cost, 1 id. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. The Savoy.—This is a close-hearted, wrinkle-leaved cabbage, sweet and tender, especially the middle leaves, and in season from November to Spring. The yellow species bears hard weather without injury, whilst the dwarf kind are improved and rendered more tender by frost. 317.—PARSNIP SOUP. (Fr.—Pur6e de Panais.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of sliced parsnips, 2 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 quart of stock, No. 274. Mode.—Put the parsnips into the stewpan with the butter, which has been previously melted, and simmer them till quite tender. Then add nearly a pint of stock, and boil together for half an hour. Pass all through a fine strainer, and put it to the remainder of the stock. Season, boil, and serve immediately. A little milk or cream improves all white soups. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 6^. per quart. Seasonable from October to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Parsnip.—(Fr. Panais.) This is a biennial plant, with a root like a carrot, which, in nutri- tive and saccharine matter, it nearly equals. It is a native of Britain, and, in its wild state, may