Ill Rules for Frying. 2. Parsley crisp when dropped in and fished out at once means fat at 35° or mo*.e. 4. The more violent the bubbling when anything is put in the hotter the fat. 5* A thin, filmy, blue smoke rises when the fat is fit for frying, and then becomes thicker until the fat is burning, when there is a dense cloud. 6. Fat, unless it has left off bubbling and is quite still, is never hot enough to fry. These rules are true of all fat, and more or less of all frying. But there are two ways of frying, known to cooks as dry frying and frying in a saucepan, or French fry. The former is more common; the latter is more economical and produces better results. 227. Dry frying is so called because of the small amount of fat used : not because of the dryness of what is fried : for things fried this way are very apt to be greasy. Sometimes the frying is so “ dry” that only just fat enough is used to prevent the meat from sticking to the pan, just as the bars of a gridiron are greased. The iron pan is heated, and the meat is cooked by heat directly commu- nicated from the hot iron. Such frying, in fact, is an imitation of broiling, and usually an unsuccessful imitation. There should always be at least enough fat to cover the surface of the pan, and it always should be made as hot as possible without burning before beginning to fry. To put cold fat and cold pan and cold chop on the stove and let them all heat together is always a mistake sure to result in a greasy, juiceless chop with burnt fat. Whatever and however you fry, first heat the fat. To fry in a saucepan means that there must be fat enough to cover what is fried, and an iron pan deep enough to contain it. It is economical, for the fat can be used over and over again, and does not soak into the food fried, which comes out quite dry and without any of the greasy moisture of frying-pan cookery. In the long run less fat is used than for ordinary dry frying ; though, of course, there is a greater outlay to begin with. An iron saucepan must be used, as the heat of the fat melts the solder of a tin pan. It is wise to take an old saucepan. Frying baskets should be used for all delicate frying (see page 65) so as to do away with the need for much handling, and to lift all the things out at the same moment. Failing a basket, an iron spoon or slice, but not of tin or Britannia metal, as they would melt. Baskets should not be used for fritters, which stick to the wires. As the basket always expands with heat, it should not be a very tight fit for the pan. 228. —Fat for frying.— Melted suet or fat can be used for French frying, and mutton is less likely to'burn than beef, but either or both together will do. Lard should never be used, for it always leaves an unpleasant flavour and costs more than beef or mutton fat. Oil is to be preferred to, and can, without burn- ing, be made hotter than any fat. Olive oil is often recommended, but it is costly, and much of the oil sold as olive is largely adulterated with cotton-seed oil, which is far cheaper than any fat used as food. Unfortunately, though a great deal is sold, not much is sold under its right name or at a fair price, except to cookshops or to the vendors of fried fish. To clarify fat or suet for frying, it should be cut up in small pieces, put into a saucepan with just enough water to prevent burning, and heated over a slow fire until the bottom of the saucepan can be seen ; then it must be strained. The pieces strained out are an economical substitute for suet for short cakes, puddings, &c. After several times using, the fat can be purified by pouring it while hot into a pan of water and well stirring; the pieces and impurities settle at the bottom of the cake of fat or sink into the water. The cake should be also occasionally strained when it is warm ; if it be strained directly after frying it will melt any soldered strainer. Dry before you fry. To fry anything well it should be dried. Fish can be rubbed in flour; vegetables in a cloth; meat should not be washed. Before dropping into hot fat anything that contains much water lift the pan off the stove, as the fat is likely to bubble over and catch fire.