88o Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. extra tablespoonfuls of sago, and boil the pudding in a buttered basin from to if hour. Sago.—Sago is the pith of a species of palm (Cycas circinalis). Its form is that of a small round grain. There are two sorts of sago: the white and the yellow; but their properties are the same. Sago absorbs the liquid in which it is cooked, becomes transparent and soft, and retains its original shape. Its alimentary properties are the same as thoee of tapioca and arrow- root. 1873.-SAGO SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of sago, ^ pint of water, | pint of port or sherry, the rind and juice of 1 small lemon, sugar to taste; when the flavour is liked, a little pounded cinnamon. Mode.-—Wash the sago in two or three waters; then put it into a saucepan, with the water and lemon-peel; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for 10 minutes ; then take out the lemon-peel, add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, and serve. Be particular to strain the lemon- juice before adding it to the sauce. This, on trial, will be found a delicious accompaniment to various boiled puddings, such as those made of bread, raisins, rice, &c. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1874.—SAUCER PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 3 eggs, a teacupful of milk, butter, preserve of any kind. Mode.—Mix the flour and sugar, beat the eggs, add them to the milk, and beat up with the flour and sugar. Well butter 3 saucers, half fill them, and bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes. Remove them from the saucers when cool enough, cut in half, and spread a thin layer of preserve on each half; close them again, and serve. Time.—20 minutes to bake. Average Cost, 7d. for this quantity. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1875.—SAVARIN. Ingredients.—1 lb. of fine flour, £ oz. of German yeast, 1 pint of milk, i lb. of butter, 5 eggs, \ oz. of sugar, £ oz. of salt, 2 oz. of candied orange peel, 1 tablespoonful of chopped almonds. Mode.—Put the flour in a bowl and make a hole in the centre, put the yeast into a quarter of a gill of lukewarm milk, then pour it into the hole in the flour and stand the bowl in a warm place. When the sponge has risen to twice its first size, pour in a gill of warm milk and 2 eggs. Work and mix the ingredients with a spoon, then add another egg. Beat the