994 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. fruit into large, dry stone jars, sprinkling the sugar amongst it; cover the jars with saucers, place them in a rather cool oven, and bake the fruit until it is quite tender. When cold, cover the top of the fruit with a piece of white paper cut to the size of the jar; pour over this melted mutton suet about an inch thick, and cover the tops of the jars with thick brown paper, well tied down. Keep the jars in a cool, dry place, and the fruit will remain good till the following Christmas, but not much longer. Time.—From 5 to 6 hours to bake the damsons, in a very cool oven. Seasonable in September and October. 2146.-DAMSON CHEESE. Ingredients.—Damsons; to every lb. of fruit pulp allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pick the stalks from the damsons, and put them into a pre- serving-pan ; simmer them over the fire until they are soft, occasionally stirring them; then beat them through a coarse sieve, and put the pulp and juice into the preserving-pan, with sugar in the above proportion, having previously carefully weighed them. Stir the sugar well in, and simmer the damsons slowly for 2 hours. Skim well; then boil the pre- serve quickly for half an hour, or until it looks firm and hard in the spoon ; put it quickly into shallow pots, or very tiny earthenware moulds, and, when cold, cover it with oiled papers, and the jars with tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. A few of the stones may be cracked, and the kernels boiled with the damsons, which very much improve the flavour of the cheese. Time.—1 hour to boil the damsons without the sugar; 2 hours to simmer them slowly, | hour quickly. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8i. per £-lb. pot. Sufficient.—1 pint of damsons to make a very small pot of cheese. Seasonable.—Make this in September or October. 2147.—COMPOTE OF DAMSONS. Ingredients.—I quart of damsons, 1 pint of syrup, No. 2115. Mode.—Procure sound ripe damsons ; pick the stalks from them, and put them into boiling syrup, made by recipe No. 2115. Simmer them gently until the fruit is tender, but not sufficiently soft to break; take them up, boil the syrup for 5 minutes ; pour it over the damsons, and serve. This should be sent to table in a glass dish. Time.—About £ hour to simmer the damsons ; 5 minutes to boil the syrup. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in Seotember and October.