Carrot Sauce. 3i3 Mode.—Cut the capers across once or twice, but do not chop them fine ; put them in a saucepan with half a pint of good melted butter, and add all the other ingredients. Keep stirring the whole until it just simmers, when it is ready to serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, 5d. Sufficient to serve with a skate, or 2 or 3 slices of salmon. Capers. (Fr. Capres.)—These are the unopened buds of a low trailing shrub which grows wild among the crevices of the rocks ol Greece, as well as in Northern Africa; the plant, however, ha's come to be cultivated in the South of Europe. After being pickled in vinegar and salt, they are imported from Sicily, Italy and the South of France. The best are from Toulon. 683.—A SUBSTITUTE FOR CAPER SAUCE. Ingredients.—i pint of melted butter, No. 676, 2 tablespoonfuls of cut parsley, £ teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode.—Boil the parsley slowly to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine. Add it to half pint of smoothly-made melted butter, with salt and vinegar in the above proportions. Boil up and serve. Time.—2 minutes to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3d. 684.—CARROT SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Carottes.) Ingredients.—1 large carrot, butter, parsley, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, £ pint gravy, No. 352. Mode.—Wash and scrape the carrot thoroughly, then grate it. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan, and as soon as it is melted add the carrot. Then put in the gravy, salt, pepper, some chopped parsley and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Let the sauce simmer till it is smooth and of the consistency of cream. This sauce may be eaten with any dish that admits of a carrot accompaniment. Time.—15 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. Seasonable at any time. 685.-CAYENNE VINEGAR; or, ESSENCE OF CAYENNE. Ingredients.—£ oz. of cayenne pepper, ^ pint of strong spirit, or 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.—Put the vinegar, or spirit, into a bottle, with the above pro- portion of cayenne, and let it steep for a month, when strain off and bottle for use. This is excellent seasoning for soups or sauces, but must be used very sparingly.