459 Curried Veal. head, trim them, seaid off the hair and cleanse very thoroughly. Put them on a sieve to drain, then put them into a stewpan with the milk and half as much water, and boil until tender for about an hour. Next fill the insides with forcemeat, and tie them up, then stew them for half an hour in the stock, seasoned with pepper, salt, and the onion, into which the cloves have been stuck. Drain again, strain the liquor and add to it the mush- rooms (previously stewed) and the cream in which the yolk of egg has been beaten. Dish the ears, pour the sauce round, and garnish with forcemeat balls and slices of lemon. This makes a very pretty side or coiner entree. The ears may also be simply served without sauce, and eaten with oil and vinegar. Time.—hour. Sufficient for x side dish. Seasonable from March to October. 1017.—FRICASSEED CALF’S HEAD. (Fr.—Tete de Veau en Fricassee.) Ingredients.—The remains of a boiled calf’s head, i| pint of the liquor in which the head was boiled, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 onion minced, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and white pepper to taste, thickening of butter and flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Remove all the bones from the head, and cut the meat into nice square pieces. Put pint of the liquor it was boiled in into a saucepan, with mace, onions, herbs, and seasoning in the above propor- tion ; let this simmer gently for three quarters of an hour, then strain it and put in the meat. When quite hot through, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and, just before dishing the fricassee, put in the beaten yolks of eggs and lemon-juice; but be particular, after these two latter ingredients are added, that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. Garnish with forcemeat balls and curled slices of broiled bacon. To insure the sauce being smooth, it is a good plan to dish the meat first, and then to add the eggs to the gravy: when these are set, the sauce may be poured over the meat. Time.—Altogether, hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1018.—CURRIED VEAL. (Fr.—Veau au Kari.) Ingredients.— 1^ lb. of veal cutlet, 6 large onions, 6 cloves of garlic, 4 oz. of butter, 3 dessertspoonfuls of curry-powder, 1 pinch of salt, 1 pint of milk, ^ teaspoonful of ground cloves, \ & lemon-