1102 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. 2428. —MADEIRA BUNS. Ingredients.—£ lb. of butter, 2 eggs, 14 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of lump sugar, 1 teaspoonful of powdered ginger, 1 dessertspoonful of caraway seeds, | teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 wineglassful of sherry. Mode.—Sift the dry ingredients together, break the eggs into the butter and beat all to a cream; then mix with the flour, &c., and beat for half an hour, then add the wine. Bake in patty pans in a moderately quick oven. Time.—About 50 minutes or an hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to make 12 buns. Seasonable at any time. 2429. —VICTORIA BUNS. Ingredients.—2 oz. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 egg, oz. of ground rice, 2 oz. of butter, i| oz. of currants, a few thin slices of candied peel f flour. Mode.—Whisk the egg, stir in the sugar, and beat these ingredient* well together; beat the butter to a cream, stir in the ground rice, cur- rants, and candied peel, and as much flour as will make it of such a consistency that it may be rolled into 7 or 8 balls. Put these on to a buttered tin, and bake them from half to three-quarters of an hour. They should be put into the oven immediately, or they will become heavy ; the oven should be tolerably brisk. Time.—| to 4 hour. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 buns. Seasonable at any time. 2430. -ITALIAN RUSKS. A stale savoy or lemon-cake may be converted into very good rusks in the following manner. Cut the cake into slices, divide each slice in two; put them on a baking- sheet, in a slow oven, and when they are of a nice brown and quite hard, they are done. They should be kept in a closed tin canister in a dry place, to preserve their crispness. Pannicled. Millet.—This is the smallest-seeded of the corn-plants, being a true grass; but the number of the seeds in each ear makes up for their size. It grows in sandy soils that will not do for the cultivation of many other kinds of grain, and forms the chief sustenance in the arid districts of Arabia, Syria, Nubia and parts of India. It is not cultivated in England, being principally confined to the East. The nations who make use of it grind it, in the primitive manner, between two stones, and make it into a diet which cannot be properly called bread, but rather a kind of soft, thin cake half-baked. PANNICLED MILLET.