224 Recipes for Cooking Fish. fully on a dish, which keep hot. Strain the gravy, stir to the cream sufficient flour to thicken; mix altogether, boil for 2 minutes, and add the cayenne and lemon-juice ; pour over the eels, and serve. Time:—f hour. Average Cost for this quantity, 2s. 6d. Seasonable from June to.March. Sold all the year round. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. The Common Eel.—This fish is known frequently to quit its native element, and to set ofl on a wandering expediton in the night, or just about the close of day, over the meadows, in search of snails and other prey. It also, sometimes, betakes itself to isolated ponds, apparently for no other pleasure than that which may be supposed to be found in a change of habitation. This, of course, accounts for eels being found in water which was never suspected to contain them. This rambling disposition in the eel has been long known to naturalists, and, from the following lines, it seems to have been known to the ancients:— “ Thus the mail'd tortoise and the wandering eel, Oft to the neighbouring beach will silent steal." 463.—STEWED EELS. Fv —(Anguilles au Vin Rouge.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of middle-sized eels, 1 pint of medium stock, No. 273, 4 pint of port wine; salt, cayenne and mace to taste; 1 tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, the juice of l a lemon. Mode.—Skin, wash and clean the eels thoroughly ; cut them into pieces 3 inches long, and put them into strong salt and water for 1 hour; dry them well with a cloth, and fry them brown. Put the stock on with the heads and tails of the eels, and simmer for half an hour ; strain it, and add all the other ingredients. Put in the eels, and stew gently for half an hour, when serve. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 464.—FRIED EELS. (TV.—Anguilles Frltes.) Ingredients.— 1 lb. of eels, 1 egg, a few bread-crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Wash the eels, cut them into pieces 3 inches long, trim and wipe them very dry; dredge with flour, rub them over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs ; fry of a nice brown in hot lard. Time.—20 minutes, or rather less. Average Cost, is. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 2 persons. Note.—Garfish may be dressed like eels, and either broiled or baked. The Productiveness of the Eel.—"Having occasion,” says Dr. Anderson, in the Bee,"to be once on a visit to a friend's house on Dee-side, in Aberdeenshire, I frequently delighted to walk by the banks of the river. I, one day, observed something like a black string movingalong the edge of the water, where it was quite shallow. Upon closer inspection, I discovered that this was a shoal of young eels, so closely joined together as to appear, on a superficial view, one con-