1637 Voidable Marriages. Every superintendent reglstrar, after granting an authority for is required in the customary manner, to conduct in his office the forms prescnbea, Ivhfch are very brief, religious or other ceremonies there being rigorously for- bidden The registrar is required to be present with his book, and the ,suPerm- tendent registrar is required to sign the register, which mnst also be signed by both parties to the marriage, and by two witnesses. The parties are at hbertyg) adjourn to any edifice, there to take part m any ceremony they may think proper, but the addition or omission of such ceremony is of no kp1 significance. Marriage in any other manner than m a church of England, or in the office ot a superintendent registrar, is not a right which any party to an ln‘e^ed l"^"af^ can legally claim or enforce. But every religious body is entitled to procure for any place of worship belonging to such body, a licence for marriages there. Any parties to an intended marriage who desire to be married m any such l^ense place, must make arrangements with the assent of the minister of SUC^P^: a^e the marriage can then take place there accordingly. It cannot be without the presence of the registrar, who, being duly notified of a reasonable time aPP°'^ ’ must attend with his book, conduct the formalities required by law, and eflect the registration in his book, all else being at the option of all the.parties^nd° no legal significance. The minister of the place of worship, whether he take part in the proceedings or not, must be present and sign the register, together wit both parties to the marriage and two witnesses. 3727. Voidable Marriages -When an authorityt0 a false declaration, or the marriage is in any manner conducted without due pon formity to thelawin any essential particular, and oneofthe Parhes ls gc lt^of or has guilty knowledge of the illegality at the time the other party being “ thereof, the marriage is voidable, and can be declared invalid ac r y y sequent proceedings. Such proceedings may be taken by the party " guilty of the illegality, or by the parents of either party. But the proceedmgs in either case, must be taken with the utmostpromptitude after discovery- of the illegality for, if time be allowed to elapse before attempting thus to repudiate the marriage, the marriage will cease to be voidable, by acquiescence. 3728. Void Marriages.—When both the parties have guilty ^ovvledge of the false character of the declaration, or of any material illegality in the Procee°- ings, the marriage is as void as though no ceremony or for nr of been gone throu|h, and, upon proof of the guilt of both parties, the legality of the marriage can be effectually challenged any time afterwards, even subsequent to the death of both parties, the children declared illegitimate, and the right ot inheritance of or succession to property totally destroyed. 3729. Law of Husband and Wife. -The sweeping change made under this head by modern legislation renders it unnecessary to treat ot it at g Concerning the property of wives, the change since 1882 is immense. Wires who were married before 1883, and to whom property of any kind accrued before that year, are still liable to the ancient law with reference to such property. With few minor exceptions, taking effect before 1883, personal property ot the wife, so accruing, belongs to the husband, and landed property is his for his wite s life. Should he desire to sell or mortgage any of the landed property of his wife, she must consent, and acknowledge her consent before an authorised legal func- tionary, otherwise the transaction is void. . 00 V Wo But with reference to all property accruing to any wife since 1882, it is hers, without the intervention or legal participation of her husband, to do with as she thinks fit her rights and liabilities with reference to such property being the same as if she were not married. And, with reference to wives married later