Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 752 perfectly tender. When done, which may be ascertained by squeezing a piece between the thumb and finger, add a thickening of butter and flour and the lemon-juice ; let the sauce boil up, and serve. Time.—io minutes to boil, 5 minutes to simmer in the broth. Average Cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from November to March. 1574.—STEWED ENDIVE. (F^.-Chicoree au Jus.) Ingredients.—6 heads of endive, 1 pint of broth, 3 oz. of fresh butter ; salt, pepper and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Wash and boil the endive as in the preceding recipe ; chop it rather fine, and put into a stewpan with the broth ; boil over a brisk fire until the sauce is all reduced; then put in the butter, pepper, salt and grated nutmeg (the latter must be very sparingly used); mix all well together, bring it to the boiling point, and serve very hot. Time.—10 minutes to boil, 5 minutes to simmer in the broth. Average Cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from November to March. 1575 —TO BOIL WHITE HARICOT BEANS (Fr.— Haricots de Soisson, au Beurre.) Ingredients.—1 quart of white haricot beans, 2 quarts of soft water, 1 oz. of butter, 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Put the beans into cold water, and let them soak from 2 to 4 hours, according to their age ; then put them into cold water, salted in the above proportion, bring them to boil, and let them simmer very slowly until tender ; pour the water away from them, let them stand by the side of the fire, with the lid of the saucepan partially off, to allow the beans to dry ; then add one ounce of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Shake the beans about for a minute or two, and serve ; do not stir them with a spoon, for fear of breaking them to pieces. Time.—After the water boils, from 2 to hours. AverageCost, 4d, per quart. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in winter, when other vegetables are scarce. Note.—Haricots blancs, when new and fresh, should be put into boiling water, and do not require any soaking previous to dressing. If they have to be boiled in a hurry, add a little soda and no salt. An excellent salad can be made of haricot beans when thus prepared. They must be allowed to become perfectly cold.