RECIPES FOR COOKING PORK. CHAPTER XIX. 1176.-PORK cutlets; (Fr.— Cdtelettes de Pore, Sauce Moutarde.) (iCold, Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast loin of pork, 1 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, | pint of gravy, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and mustard. Mode.—Cut the pork into nice-sized cutlets, trim off most of the fat, and chop the onions. Put the butter into a stewpan, lay in the cutlets and chopped onions, and fry a light brown ; then add the remaining in- gredients, simmer gently for 5 or 7 minutes, and serve. Time.—5 to 7 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 5d. Seasonable from October to March. Austrian Method of Herding Pigs —In the Austrian empire there are great numbers of wild swine, while, among the wandering tribes peopling the interior of Hungary, and spreading over the vast steppes of that country, droves of swine form a great portion of the wealth of the people, who chiefly live on a coarse bread and wind-dried bacon. In Germany, Switzerland, the Tyrol, and other mountainous districts of Continental Europe, though the inhabitants, almost everywhere, as in England, keep one or more pigs, they are at little or no trouble in feeding them, one or more men being employed by one or several villages as swine-herds ; who, at a certain hour, every morning, call for the pig or pigs, and driving them to their feeding-grounds on the mountain-side and in the wood, take custody of the herd till, on the approach of night, they are collected into a compact body and driven home for a night’s repose in their several sties. The amount of intelligence and docility displayed by the pigs in these mountain regions, is much more considerable than that usually allowed to this animal, and the manner in which these immense herds of swine are collected, and again distributed, without an accident or mis- take, is a sight both curious and interesting; for it is all done without the assistance of a dog, or the aid even of the human voice, and solely by the crack of the long-lashed and heavily- loaded whip, which the swine-herd carries, and cracks much after the fashion of the French postillion ; and which, though he frequently cracks, waking a hundred sharp echoes from the woods and rocks, he seldom has to use correctionally ; the animal soon acquiring a knowledge of the meaning of each crack, and, once having felt its leaded thong, a lasting remembrance of its power. At early dawn, the swine-herd takes his stand at the outskirts of the first village, and begins flourishing through the misty air his immensely-long lash, keeping a sort of rude time with the crack, crack, crack, crack, crack, crack, of his whip. The nearest pig3, hearing the well-remembered sound, rouse from their straw, and rush from their sties into the road, followed by all their litters. As soon as a sufficient number are collected, the drove is set in motion, receiving, right and left, as they advance, fresh numbers ; whole communities, or solitary indi- viduals, streaming in from all quarters, and taking their place, without distinction, in the general herd ; and, as if conscious where their breakfast lay, without wasting a moment on idle investi- T