Management of Nursery and Sick-Room. 1546 as free as possible from draughts, at the same time well ventilated and free from unpleasant smells. 3474. The infant (luring the month must not be exposed to strong light, or much air; and in carrying it about the passages, stairs, &c., the nurse should always have its head-flannel on, to protect the eyes and ears from the currents of air. For the management of children, we must refer our readers to our “ House and Home Books,” No. 2 ; and we need only say that a good nurse should understand the symptoms of various ills incident to this period, as, in all cases, prevention is better than cure. As young mothers with their first baby are very often much troubled at first with their breasts, the nurse should understand the art of empty- ing them by suction, or some other contrivance. If the breasts are kept well-drawn, there will be but little danger of inflammation ; and as the infant at first can- not take all that is necessary, something must be done to keep the inflammation down. This is one of the greatest difficulties a nurse has to contend with, and we only advise her to be very persevering, to rub the breasts well, and to let the infant suck as soon and as often as possible, until they are in proper order. NIGHT LAMP. THE WET NURSE. 3475. Duty of the Mother.—Unless prevented by illness or inability, a mother should nurse her child herself. A woman, no matter to what rank she belongs, with health, strength and time to devote to her child, should not shrink from performing the most natural of maternal functions, for by not doing so she certainly risks the child’s health, and perhaps her own. If, however, she be unable to nurse her child, it is better to bring it up upon cow’s or goat's milk than to engage a hired nurse ; many children thriving equally well upon good milk from either animal as upon their natural food. It is seldom that doctors think it necessary in these days to advise the employment of a wet nurse, although in some cases it is absolutely necessary. Under these circumstances we offer a few hints to the mothers who have to engage them for their children. 3476. The IFet Nurse.—We arc aware that, according to the opinion of some ladies, there is no domestic theme, during a certain period of their married lives, more fraught with vexation and disquietude than that ever-fruitful source of annoyance, “the Wet-Nurse;” but, we believe, there are thousands of excellent wives and mothers who pass through life without even a temporary embroglio in the kitchen, or suffering a state of moral hectic the whole time of a nurse’s empire in the nursery or bedroom. Our own experience goes to prove, that although many unqualified persons palm themselves off on ladies as fully competent for the duties they so rashly and dishonestly undertake to perform, and thus expose themselves to ill-will and merited censure, there are still very many fully equal to the legitimate exercise of what they undertake ; and if they do not in every case give entire satisfaction, some of the fault—and sometimes a great deal of it—may be honestly placed to the account of the ladies them- selves, who, in many instances, are so impressed with the propriety of their own method of performing everything, as to insist upon the adoption of their system