1273 French Bread. the/ would appear to go at the process with a will. Seizing the unfortunate bird three or four times a day, they open its bill and stuff a quantity of warm meal and potatoe down its throat, caressing it and talking to it the while, and when they consider it has had food enough, wind up by giving it a very small walnut byway of a digestive. 2892. The pates of France may be regarded as the equivalent of the German wurst Beginning with the renowned pate of Strasburg, they vary much in their seasoning and the different kinds of meat employed in their fabrication. Above all the French excel in their entrees or made dishes, and there is some- thing both artistic and scientific in the refinement of taste displayed in their various blendings of mushrooms, truffles, cock’s combs and other garnitures and seasonings. There is the ring of the epicure in such designations as croquettes, supreme, a la financi'ere, and a touch of sentiment in leaving out one leg of the chicken in poulet a la Marengo, because it has remained sur le champ de bataille, or in suggesting that a piece of flesh or fish should not be allowed to boil but only to “ shudder.” The airy vol-au-vent is a great weakness of the French people. Everything is converted into a vol-au-vent. Meat of all descriptions cut up small in a delicate sauce ; in like manner, fowl fricasseed, fish stewed in wine, and game dressed in savoury fashion find a place in the flaky receptacle. As a sweet, also, it is much favoured, fruit and preserves often making their appearance when the top is removed. And what can be more attractive to the epicure than a French souffle with its gold brown colour and its unapproachable lightness ? Or the immortal omelette, so well known to us by name, and yet as a rule so badly made at home, whereas in France it is to be had good everywhere, from the chateau to the peasant’s hut, theplatde bivouac as the great Napoleon called it ? 2893. French Cheese.—How much French cheese do we find upon our own tables ! True, the soft cheeses do not come to us, owing probably to the diffi- culty that would arise in transporting them to England ; but this soft cheese is much eaten at a dejeuner, and in the strawberry season, takes the place of cream with us. Cooked food is sold in the streets in France, at or a little before the hour of dejeuner. Women carry monster baskets on their heads, containing tiny earthen- ware stoves with charcoal inside them, which serve to keep hot earthenware pans filled with baked apples, fried potatoes, or viz au lait, and cooks do not think it at all infra dig. to rush out with a basin and receive the steaming rice, toss a couple of eggs into it and brown it over in the oven in ten minutes’ time, or to fetch a dish of thepommes suites'to satisfy the eager children. '2894. French Bread.—Much bread is baked in country houses, and large, flat, plain cakes, called galettes, composed principally of flour and water, the butter being conspicuous by its absence, are universal. The smaller cakes in France, the choux a la creme, meringues, eclairs, babas, &c., are delightful indeed. Vanilla is the most favourite flavouring; delicate little puffs, not three-cornered like our own, but made in soft, flaky rolls, are filled with preserve of various kinds, and yet the vanilla flavour is traceable in most of them. 2895. French Preserve.—There is a sort of national jam, much affected by the middle class, used as well for cakes as for eating with bread and butter. It is called raisinet, and is a perfect hodge-podge of fruit and vegetables. Its foundation is the new wine as it comes from the press. Into this are thrown, beetroot, turnips, carrots—all of course carefully washed and peeled—apricots plums, apples, pears, and any other fruit that may be in season, and the mixture is kept stirring for twenty-four hours. Everyone has a stir at the raisinet caldron.