The Song of Birdi. 577 suiting from it. Indeed, we may consider the velocity with which an animal moves, as a sure indication of the perfection of its vision. Among the quadrupeds, the sloth has its sight greatly limited; whilst the hawk, as it hovers in the air, can espy a lark sitting on a clod, perhaps at twenty times the distance at which a man or a dog could perceive it.” 1259. Respiration.—Amongst the many peculiarities in the construction of birds, not the least is the mode by which their respiration is accomplished. This is affected by means of air-vessels, which extend throughout the body, and adhere to the under-surface of the bones. These, by their motion, force the air through the true lungs, which are very small, and placed in the uppermost part of the chest, and closely braced down to the back and ribs. In the lungs the blood is oxidized. In the experiments made by Mr. John Hunter, to discover the use of this general diffusion of air through the bodies of birds, he found that it prevents their respiration from being stopped or interrupted by the rapidity of their motion through a resisting medium. It is well known that, in proportion to celerity of motion, the air becomes resistive; and were it possible for a man to move with the swiftness of a swallow, as he is not provided with an internal con- struction similar to that of birds, the resistance of the air would soon suffocate him. 1260. Birds are Distributed over every Bart of the Globe, being found in the coldest as well as the hottest regions, although sonje species are restricted to particular countries, whilst others are widely dispersed. At certain seasons of the year, many of them change their abodes, and emigrate to climates better adapted to their temperaments or modes of life, for a time, than those which they leave. Many of the birds of Britain, directed by an unerring instinct, take their departure from the island before the commencement of winter, and proceed to the more congenial warmth of Africa, to return with the next spring. The causes assigned by naturalists for this peculiarity are, either a deficiency of food, or the want of a secure asylum for the incubation and nourishment of their young. Their migrations are generally performed in large companies, and, in the day, they follow a leader, which is occasionally changed. During the night, many of the tribes send forth a continual cry, to keep themselves together ; although one would think that the noise which must accompany their flight would be sufficient for that purpose. The flight of birds across the Mediterra- nean was noticed three thousand years ago, as we find it said in the Book of Numbers, in the Scriptures, that " There went forth a wind from the Lord, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall upon the camp, and a day’s journey round about it, to the height of two cubits above the earth.” 1261. The Song of Birds. — It appears, from accurate observations founded upon experiment, that the notes peculiar to different kinds of birds are altogether acquired as language is by man. The attempt of a nestling bird to sing has been compared to the endeavour of a child to talk. The first attempts do not seem to possess the slightest rudiments of the future song; bnt, as the bird grows older and becomes stronger, it is easily perceived to be aiming at acquiring the art of giving utterance to song. Whilst the scholar is thus endeavouring to form his notes, when he is once sure of a passage, he usually raises his tone, but drops it again when he finds himself unequal to the voluntary task he has under- taken. “Many well-authenticated fa:ts,” says an ingenious writer, “seem decisively to prove that birds have no innate notes, but that, like mankind, the language of those to whose care they have been committed at their birth, will be their language in after-life.” It would appear, however, somewhat unaccount- able why, in a wild state, they adhere so steadily to the song of their own species only, when the notes of so many others are to be heard around them. Persons.