6T3 Broiled Fowl. keep it well basted whilst at the fire. Take the fowl up, broil it for a few minutes over a clear fire, and season it with pepper and salt. Have ready some mushroom sauce made in the following manner:—Put the mushrooms into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, the ham, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the gravy ; simmer these gently for half-an-hour, add the lemon-juice and sugar, dish the fowl, and pour the sauce round them. Time.—To roast the fowl, 35 minutes; to broil it, 10 to 15 minutes Average Cost, in full season, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable.—In full season from May to January. The Bantam.—No one will dispute that for beauty, animation, plumage and courage the Bantam is entitled to rank next to the game fowl. As its name undoubtedly implies, the bird is of Asiatic origin. The choicest sorts are the buff- coloured, and those that are entirely black. A year- old Bantam cock of pure breed will not weigh more than sixteen ounces. Despite its small size, however, it is marvellously bold, especially in defence of its progeny. A friend of the writer's, residing at Ken- sington, possessed a pair of thorough-bred Bantams, that were allowed the range of a yard where a fierce bull-terrier was kennelled. The hen had chicks; and, when about three weeks old, one of them strayed into the dog-kennel. The grim beast took no notice of the tiny fledgling; but, when the anxious mother ventured in to fetch out the truant, with a growl the dog woke, and nearly snapped her asunder in his great jaws. The black bantams. cockrbird saw the tragic fate of its partner ; but, nothing daunted, flew at the dog with a fierce cry, and pecked savagely at its face. The odds, however, were too great; and, when the terrier had sufficiently recovered from the astonishment caused by the sudden and unexpected attack, he seized the audacious Bantam, and shook him to death ; and, in five minutes, the devoted couple were entombed in Pincher's capacious maw. 1300.—BROILED FOWL (Sudden Death). (Fr.—Poulet Grille.) Ingredients.—1 fowl, 1 oz. butter, pepper, salt. Mode.—Place a large pan of cold water on the fire, go out and catch a young fowl, chop its head off, and let it bleed until the water boils, Draw it, and plunge it in the water, when the feathers and skin will come off all together easily. Split the fowl in half; lay it, inside downwards, on a gridiron over a clear fire, and keep turning it till done, which will be from about fifteen to twenty minutes. Pepper lightly at each turn, but do not add the salt till the last turn. Rub over with the butter, and serve very hot with liver and lemon sauce, No. 727, or with mushroom sauce, No. 740, or with tomato sauce, No. 784. Time.—35 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable all the year round. Note.—“ Sudden death ” is a very favourite “ above bridge " river dish, and is to be had in perfection at the hotels at Windsor, Cookham, &c. It is usually eaten as a high tea or supper dish.