White-Currant Jelly. 993 metal or iron ones would spoil the colour • of the jelly. When it has boiled from twenty minutes to half an hour, put a little of the jelly on a plate, and if firm when cool, it is done. Take it off the fire, pour it into small gallipots, cover each of the pots with an oiled paper, and then with a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Label the pots, adding the year when the jelly was made, and store it away in a dry place. A jam may be made with the currants, if they are not squeezed too dry, by adding a few fresh raspberries, and boiling all together with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely. As this preserve is not worth storing away, but is only for immediate eating, a smaller pro- portion of sugar than usual will be found enough: it answers very well for children’s puddings, or for a nursery preserve. Time.—From f to i hour to extract the juice; 20 minutes to £ hour to boil the jelly. Average Cost, from M. to 10d. per J-lb. pot. Sufficient.—8 quarts of currants will make from 10 to 12 pots of jelly. Seasonable.—Make this in July. Note.—Should the above proportion of sugar not be sufficient for some tastes, add an extra Jib. to every pint of juice, making altogether i lb. 2144—WHITE-CURRANT JELLY. Ingredients.—White currants ; to every pint of juice allow f lb. of good loaf sugar. Mode.—Pick the currants from the stalks, and put them into a jar; place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer until the juice is well drawn from the fruit, which will be in from three-quarters to one hour. Then strain the currants through a fine cloth or jelly-bag; do not squeeze them too much, or the jelly will not be clear, and put the juice into a very clean preserving-pan, with the sugar. Let this simmer gently over a clear fire until it is firm, and keep stirring and skimming until it is done; then pour it into small pots, cover them, and store away in a dry place. Time.—f hour to draw the juice ; J hour to boil the jelly. Average Cost, from 8d. to tod. per J-lb. pot. Sufficient.—From 3 pints to 2 quarts of fruit should yield 1 pint of juice. Seasonable in July and August. 2145.—BAKED DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow 8 oz. of pounded sugar; melted mutton suet. Mode.—Choose sound fruit, not too ripe ; pick off the stalks, weigh it( and to every lb. allow the above proportion of pounded sugar. Put the