570 Recipes for Tinned Meat. into neat squares, roll in flour and put them into the sauce to simmer fof 5 minutes. Dish with the meat and gravy in the centre and the beans in a border round. Time.—2 hours altogether. Average Cost, is. 4cl. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1243.—BEEF A LA MODE. Ingredients.—2 lb. tin of beef, 4 dessertspoonfuls of ground rice, pints of stock, No. 274, 2 bay leaves, 6 pepper-corns, 1 onion, 4 cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, salt. Mode.—Open the tin of meat, take the dripping, melt it in a stewpan, and mix it into a smooth paste with the ground rice. Add the stock and seasonings and let it boil, then simmer for 15 or 20 minutes. Strain, then return to the pan and colour it; it should be of the consistence of rich cream. Cut the meat into neat pieces, put it in the sauce, simmer 5 minutes, then serve on a very hot dish. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1244.—STEW OF BEEF AND MUSHROOMS. Ingredients.—1 lb. tin of beef, £ pint of button mushrooms, 1 teacupful of stock, No. 273, 1 lemon, pepper, salt, flour, butter. Mode.—Pare the mushrooms and cut off the points of the stalks. (The tinned mushrooms may be used, they need no trimming). Put a piece of butter the size of a large walnut into a stewpan, add the mushrooms, the juice of a large lemon, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer gently till tender. Then pour in the stock. Cut up the meat, dip the pieces in flour and put them in the pan. Shake gently, to prevent burning, till they are thoroughly heated, then turn into a deep dish with sippets of toasted bread round. Serve as hot as possible. Time.—About £ hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1245.-BEEF PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of tinned meat, £ pint Of stock, No. 273, pepper* salt, 1 teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, 3 lbs. of potatoes, flour. Mode.—Boil the potatoes, then mash them, or use any cold potatoes for this dish. Cut the meat into neat pieces, roll or dredge them with