and not so dry and thick. The blossoms are white, much like those ot IIg4 Recipes for Beverages. COFFEE. in it, and, when the pot is well warmed, put the ground coffee into the bag; pour over as much boiling water as is required, close the lid, and when all the water has filtered through, remove the bag, and send the coffee to table. Making it in this manner prevents the necessity of pouring the coffee from one vessel to another, which cools and spoils it. The water should be poured on the coffee gradually, so that the infusion may be stronger: and the bag must be well made, that none of the grounds may escape through the seams, and so make the coffee thick and muddy. Sufficient.—Allow I tablespoonful, or | oz. to each person. The Coffee Plant grows to the height of about twelve or fifteen feet, with leaves not unlike those of the common laurel, although more pointed, jasmine, and issue from the angles of the leaf-stalks. When the flowers fade, they are succeeded by the coffee-bean, or seed, which is enclosed in a berry of a led colour, when ripe resembling a cherry. The coffee-beans are prepared by exposing them to the sun for a few days, that the pulp may ferment and throw off a strong acidulous moisture They are then gradually dried for about three weeks, and put into a mill to separate the husk from the seed. 2668.—CAFE AU LAIT. This is merely very strong coffee added to a large proportion of good hot milk; about 6 tablespoonfuls of strong coffee being quite sufficient for a breakfastcupful of milk. Of the essence, No. 265j, which answers admirably for cafe au lait, so much would not be required. This preparation is in- finitely superior to the weak watery coffee so often served at English tables. A little cream mixed with the milk, if the latter cannot be depended on for richness, improves the taste of the coffee, as also the richness of the beverage. Sufficient.—6 tablespoonfuls of strong coffee or 2 tablespoonfuls of the essence to a breakfastcupful of milk. Tea and Coffee.—It is true, says Liebig, that thousands have lived without a knowledge of tea and coffee ; and daily experience teaches us, that under certain circumstances, they may be dis- pensed with without disadvantage to the merely animal functions ; but it is an error, certainly, to conclude from this that they may be altogether dispensed with in reference to their effects ; and it is a question, whether, if we had no tea and no coffee, the popular instinct would not seek for and discover the moans of replacing them. Science, which accuses us of so much in these respects, will have, in the first place, to ascertain, whether it depends on sensual and sinful inclinations merely, that every people of the globe have appropriated some such means of acting on the nervous life, from the shore of the Pacific, where the Indian retires from life for days in order to enjoy the bliss of intoxication with koko, to the Arctic regions, where Kamtschatdales and Koriakes prepare an intoxicating beverage from a poisonous mushroom. We think it, on the contrary, highly probable, not to say certain, that the instinct of man, feeling certain blanks, certain wants of the intensified life of our times, which cannot be satisfied or filled up by mere quantity, has discovered, in these products of vegetable life the true means of giving to his food the desired and necessary quality.