i6o8 The Doctor, DISEASES OF INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD. 3654. Chicken Pox.—This is a contagious but harmless disease of child- hood, unattended by any constitutional disturbance, as a rule, and after running its course for a few days ends in complete recovery. Often several children of the same family have it, one after the other. It affects both sexes alike and all classes indiscriminately. After a period of incubation, the length of which is doubtful, a number of little red points suddenly appear on the skin, and in the course of twenty-four hours each has become a small blister, or vesicle, raised above the surface and surrounded by a pink areola or zone. The next day more red spots appear, which also form blisters, and so on for about three or four days fresh crops appear, the previous ones attaining a maturer stage. The eruption is most abundant on the back and front of the body. In about a week the vesicles begin to wither and dry up, and in a week or ten days longer the scabs fall off, leaving as a rule no scar. Treatment.—As a rule, the child need only be kept in the nursery and not in bed all day long; occasionally the little patient is restless and feverish, but in most cases it will play about as cheerfully as usual and appear to have nothing the matter with it. For a few days the child may be kept indoors and the diet should be plain and simple. 3655. Convulsions.—Some children are much more liable to suffer from convulsions than others, owing to the more impressionable nature of the nervous system. Causes.—Difficulty in teething is a very frequent cause, the irritation of the gums affecting the brain ; and when that irritation is removed, the convulsions disappear. Indigestible articles of food are another very frequent cause ; fright may cause convulsions, and anything profoundly affecting the mother, such as anger, terror, grief, may so act upon her milk as to give rise to convulsions in the infant. Symptoms.—Sometimes the convulsions are partial, thus an arm may twitch or certain portions of the face. The writer recollects being called to a child suffering from partial convulsions, whose mother, recognising, from the inflamed condition of the gums, that the teething was at fault, took out her pen-knife and scratched the surface, which was really just what was required. Again, the convulsion may be general, when the muscles of the face, eyes, eyelids and limbs arc in a violent state of rapid contraction alternating with relaxation. Froth may appear at the mouth, and if the tongue has been bitten it will be tinged with blood. The head is generally thrown back, and the thumbs pressed in upon the palms of the hands. Treatment.—If the teeth are plainly at fault, the gums must be scarified, and three grains of bromide of potassium may be given in a little water. If due to some indigestible article of diet, then the best thing to do is to get rid of it as soon as possible. The writer gave a child that took a very severe fit during or immediately after dinner an emetic of mustard and water, which answered very well. Perhaps a safer emetic would be a teaspoonful of ipecacuanha wine in tepid water ; drinks of tepid water being afterwards given. This, of course, is only to be given if it is thought that some indigestible article of food has given rise to the convulsions, and if tco long a time has not elapsed since it was swallowed. If some hours have elapsed, it will be better to give a teaspoonful of castor oil. The following mixture will be found useful; it may be given to children from one to three years old : Bromide of potassium, two drachms; iodide of potassium, half a drachm; syrup of orange peel, an ounce; water to make four ounces. A teaspoonful every three hours, till all tendency to