Sufficient, from 18 to 20 balls for 1 tureen of soup. Forcemeat Balls. FORCEMEATS AND STUFFING. 293 625. Forcemeats.—To make good forcemeats care and patience is neces- sary. The ingredients must be thoroughly pounded, so that no lumps or fibres remain ; and for the finer kinds of forcemeat, even after the chopping and pounding of each ingredient separately, the whole must be well and long pounded together. The ingredients vary much, as do the finished productions, if we are to include under the one name “ forcemeat ” everything between plain veal-stutfing and the most elaborate game forcemeat or quenelles. Let us begin with the plainest. The ingredients are bread, suet, herbs and seasoning, milk, egg, or even water. Dripping or butter may replace the suet; but whatever is used must be chopped very fine or rubbed well in. In an emer- gency, soaked bread-crusts may replace bread-crumbs; but they must be thoroughly soaked and broken, and squeezed dry. The bread-crumbs should be rubbed through a wire sieve, or, failing that, a colander; because in this way they are more quickly done and more even in size than rubbed on a grater. The egg is not necessary, particularly if the forcemeat is to be sewn into a joint, instead of being shaped in balls. Milk or water will do, though an egg is an im- provement. As to flavouring, that should not be neglected, even in the simplest forcemeat. There is no reason why pepper and salt, parsley and thyme, should be our only seasonings. Nutmeg, a dust of mace, lemon-peel, fresh or dried, a sprig of herbs other than the usual thyme, marjoram, and parsley, are all acceptable as a varia- tion. Grated ham or lean bacon is also a suitable addition to many forcemeats. When fresh meat is used, it should be raw, pounded in a mortar, and rubbed through a wire sieve. A panada of bread-crumbs, soaked in stock, is sometimes used, and in other recipes the panada is directed to be made of butter, flour and milk, or stock, boiled until it is stiff. The finer forcemeats are usually poached in water or stock. An invariable rule is that the water should be boiling, but should not bubble after the force- meat is put in. It is safer to lay them in a buttered pan, and to pour boiling water gently in from a kettle. Various sizes and shapes are made, according to the purpose for which they are intended. Knives and spoons dipped in boil- ing water are the best implements to use for shaping, as quenelles should be soft, and are likely to stick. 626.—FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR FISH SOUPS. (Fr.—Farce de Homard.) Ingredients.—1 middling-sized lobster, £ an anchovy, 1 head of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, salt, cayenne, and mace to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs. Mode.— Pick the meat from the shell of the lobster, and pound it, with the soft parts, in a mortar; add the celery, the yolk of the hard-boiled egg, seasoning and bread-crumbs. Continue pounding till the whole is nicely amalgamated. Warm the butter till it is in a liquid state; well whisk the eggs, and work these up with the pounded lobster-meat. Make into balls of about an inch in diameter, and fry of a nice pale brown, or poach for five minutes. Half a tin of lobster may be used.