Claret Cup. 2722.—CLARET CUP. Ingredients.—1 bottle of claret, 1 pint bottle of champagne, of seltzer or soda, x glass of maraschino, 2 peaches or a few slices of pine-apple, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, borage. Mode.—Put the sugar in a jug and pour over the claret and liqueur, and stand in ice. When wanted, put the peaches sliced, or the pine, into a bowl, then pour over the contents of the jug, the champagne and the seltzer, both of which may be iced, put in the borage and let if stand for a few minutes before serving. Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable in summer, 2723.—CLARET CUP. (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 bottle of claret, 1 or 2 bottles of soda-water, about i lb. of pounded ice, 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 liqueur glass of maraschino, a sprig of green borage. Mode.—Mix all together, and serve in large glass or other ornamental jugs. The ice can be replaced by a second bottle of soda-water, or by one of effervescing lemomade, which is preferred by many persons. Sometimes all the ingredients are put into a silver cup, which is handed round with a clean napkin passed through one of the handles, that the edge of the cup may be wiped after each guest has partaken of the contents thereof, but this is now not very customary. Seasonable in summer. Clarets.—All those wines called in England clarets are the produce of the country round Bordeaux, or the Bordelais; but it is remarkable that there is no pure wine in France known by the name of claret, which is a curruption of clairct, a term that is applied there to any red or rose- coloured wine. Round Bordeaux are produced a number of wines of the first quality, which pass under the name simply of 1’ins de Bordeaux, or have the designation of the particular district where they are made: as Lafite, Latour, &c. The clarets brought to the English markets are frequently prepared for it by the wine-growers, by mixing- together several Bordeaux wines, or by adding to them a portion of some other wines; but in France the pure wines are carefully prepared distinct. The genuine wines of Bordeaux are of great variety, that part being one of the most distinguished in France: and the principal vineyards are those of Medoc, Palus, Graves, and Blanche, the product of each having characters considerably different. 2724.—CLARET GRANITO. Ingredients.—1 quart of orangeade, 1 bottle of French claret. Mode.—Mix the above, and put the mixture into a refrigerator. Time.—15 minutes. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to make 3 pints. Seasonable in summer. 1215 X bottle SODA- WATER.