Lemon Sponge. 937 Seasonable at any time. the boiling water is poured on the sugar and lemon, it should stand covered for about half an hour before the eggs are added to it, that the flavour of the rind may be extracted. Time.—£ hour to make the lemonade ; about 10 minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Average Cost, is. Sufficient to fill 12 to 14 custard-glasses. Seasonable at any time. 2004.—LEMON JELLY. (Fr.—Gelee au Citron.) Ingredients.—6 lemons, f lb. lump sugar, 1 pint of water, if oz. oi gelatine, f pint of sherry. Mode.—Peel three of the lemons, pour half a pint of boiling water on the rind, and let it infuse for half an hour; put the sugar, gelatine, and half a pint of water into a lined saucepan, simmer these ingredients for 20 minutes; then put in the strained lemon juice, the strained infusion of rind, and bring the whole to the point of boiling; skim well, add the wine, and run the jelly through a bag ; pour it into a mould that has been wetted or soaked in water ; put it in ice, if convenient, where let it remain until required for table. Previously to adding the lemon-juice to the other ingredients, ascertain that it is very nicely strained, as, if this is not pro- perly attended to, it is liable to make the jelly thick and muddy. As this jelly is very pale, and almost colourless, it answers very well for moulding with a jelly of any bright hue; for instance, half a jelly bright red, and the other half made of the above, would have a very good effect. Lemon jelly may also be made with patent gelatine, allowing the juice of three lemons to every pint. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour. Average Cost, zs. 2d. Sufficient to fill if-pint mould. Seasonable at any time. 2005.—LEMON SPONGE. (Fr.—Gel6e k la Russe au Citron.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of gelatine, if pint of water, f lb. of pounded sugar, the juice of 5 lemons, the rind of 1, the whites of 3 eggs. Mode.—Dissolve the isinglass in the water, strain it into a saucepan, and add the sugar, lemon-rind and juice. Simmer gently from 10 to 15 minutes; strain it again, and let it stand till it is cold and begins to stiffen. Beat the whites of the eggs, put them to it, and whisk the mixture till it is quite white; put it into a mould which has been pre- viously wetted, and let it remain until perfectly set; then turn it out, and garnish it according to taste. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould.