Cucumber Salad. 777 1623.—EAST INDIA SALAD. Ingredients.—1 large crab, 1 gill of tarragon vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of chili vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of sweet oil, 1 anchovy, 1 head of celery I head of endive, small bunch of green chives, salt. Mode.—Take a large boiled crab and chop it finely, bruise the anchovy in a mortar and add it to the crab with the vinegar, oil and salt. Chop the vegetables, then arrange all in a salad bowl. This is an enjoyable relish eaten with Gold fowl or alone. Time.—20 minutes to prepare. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1624.—CREAM DRESSING FOR SALAD. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream, 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, £ tea- spoonful of black pepper, 1 teacupful of vinegar. Mode.—Beat all the ingredients well together, then put them into a saucepan and stir over the fire till it thickens like custard, but do not let it boil or it will curdle. Let it cool, then mix with salad. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. Seasonable at any time. 1625—c U C U M B E R SALAD. (Fr.—Concombres a I’Huile.) Ingredients.—1 large or 2 small cucumbers, £ teaspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, 1 tablespoonful of best French vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls of pure salad oil. Mode.—Peel and slice the cucumber as finely as possible, sprinkle the pepper and salt over it; add vinegar and salt in the above proportions a moment before using. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. to 9d. in full season. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable in May, June and July. Cucumbers.—The cucumber is refreshing, but neither nutritious nor digestible, and should be excluded from the regimen of the delicate. There are various modes of preparing cucumbers. When gathered young, they are called gherkins ; these pickled, are much used in seasonings. Radishes.—This is the common name given to the root of the Rophanus sativus, one of the varieties of the cultivated horseradish. There are red and white radishes ; and the French have also what they call violet and black ones, of which the black are the larger. Radishes are composed of nearly the same constituents as turnips, that is to say, mostly fibre and nitrogen ; and, being generally eaten raw, it is on the last of these that their flavour depends.