*55 Vegetable Soups. Macaroni.—This is the favourite food of Italy, where especially among the Neapolitans, it may be regarded as the staff of life. “The crowd of London,” says Mr. Forsyth, “ Is a double line in quick motion : it is the crowd of business. The crowd of Naples consists in a general tide rolling up and down, and in the middle of this tide, a hundred eddies of men. You are stopped by a carpenter’s bench, you are lost among shoemakers’ stalls, and you dash among the pots of a macaroni stall." This article of food is nothing more than a thick paste, made of the best wheaten flour, with a small quantity of water. When it has been well worked, it is put into a hollow cylindrical vessel, pierced with holes of the size of tobacco-pipes at the bottom. Through these holes the mass is forced by a powerful screw, bearing on a piece of wood madeexactly to tit the inside of the cylinder. Whilst issu- ing from the holes, it is partially baked by a fire placed below the cylinder, and is, at the same time, drawn away and hung over rods placed about the room or in the open air in order to dry. In a tew days it is fit for use. As it is both wholesome and nutritious, it ought to be much more used by all classes in England than it is. It generally accompanies Parmesan cheese to the tables of the rich, but is also used for thickening soups and making puddings. macaroni. 311.-SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. (Fr.—Soupe Maigre.) Ingredients.—4 02. butter, 2 onions sliced, 2 heads of celery, 2 let tuces, a small bunch of parsley, 2 handfuls of spinach, 3 pieces of bread- crust, 2 blades of mace, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, and put in the onions to stew gently for 3 or 4 minutes; then add the celery, spinach, lettuces and parsley, cut small. Stir the ingredients well for 10 minutes. Now put in the water, bread, seasoning and mace. Boil gently for hour; and, at the moment of serving, beat in the yolks of the eggs and the vinegar, but do not let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 7d. per quart. Seasonable ail the year. The Lettuce (Fr. Laitue) has in all antiquity been distinguished as a kitchen-garden plant. It was, without preparation, eaten by the Hebrews with the Paschal lamb ; the Greeks delighted in it, and the Romans, in the time of Domitian, had it prepared with eggs, and served in the first course at their tables, merely to excite their appetites. Its botanical name is lactuca, so called from the milky juice it exudes when its stalks are cut. It possesses a narcotic virtue, noticed by ancient physicians ; and even in our day a lettuce supper is deemed conducive to repose. Its proper char- acter, however, is that of a cooling summer vegetable, not very nutritive, but serving as a corrective, or diluent of animal food. 312.—LENTIL SOUP. (Fr.—Puree de Lentilles.) Ingredients—1 pint of Egyptian lentils, 1 carrot, 2 large onions, a little thyme and parsley, 3 pints of water or stock, a little butter, salt and pepper to taste. IVIocie.—Wash the lentils, then put them in a saucepan containing 3 pints of boiling water, add the onions and the carrot (the latter cut up), the thyme and parsley. Let all cook until in a pulp. It will take from an hour to an hour and a half. Next rub through a wire sieve into a