Treacle Pudding. 883 1881.—TARTLETS. Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any jam or marmalade that may be preferred. Mode.—Roll out the paste to the thickness of about half an inch ; butter some round patty-pans, line them with it, and cut off the super- fluous paste close to the edge of the pan. Put a small piece of bread into each tartlet (this is to keep them in shape), and bake iu a brisk oven for about 10 minutes or rather longer. When they are doue, and are of a nice colour, take the pieces of bread out, carefully, and replace them by a spoonful of jam or marmalade. DISH 0F tablets. Dish them high on a white d’oyley, piled high in the centre, and serve. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, id. each. Sufficient.—1 lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of tartlets, Seasonable at any time. 1882.—TRANSPARENT PUDDING. Ingredients.—8 eggs, ^ lb. of powdered sugar, % lb. of butter, grated nutmeg, puff-paste. Mode.—Beat the eggs well, and mix with the other ingredients in a stewpan. Line a dish with paste, pour in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven. Candied-peel may be added. Average Cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1883.-ROLLED TREACLE PUDDING. Ingredients.—I lb. of suet-crust, No. 1684, £ lb. of treacle, % teaspoon- ful of grated ginger. Mode.—Make, with 1 lb. of flour, a suet-crust by recipe No. 1684; roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, and spread the treacle equally over it, leaving a small margin where the paste joins; close the ends securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for two hours. We have inserted this pudding, being economical, and a favourite one with children; it is, of course, only suitable for a nursery, or very plain family dinner. Made with a lard instead of suet crust, it would be very nice baked, and would be sufficiently done in from to 2 hours. Time.—Boiled pudding, 2 hours; baked pudding, to 2 hours. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2 G