III5 Coffee Cake. Seasonable at any time. the heat of the oven; it should not be too fierce, but have moderate heat to bake the cake through. Time.—5 to 6 hours. Average Cost, 2s. per lb. 2463.—CHRISTMAS CAKE. Ingredients.—5 teacupfuls of flour, 1 teacupful of melted butter, 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teacupful of treacle, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, 2 eggs, £ oz. of powdered ginger, | lb. of raisins, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode.—Make the butter sufficiently warm to melt it, but do not allow it to oil; put the flour into a basin, add to it the sugar, ginger and raisins, which should be stoned and cut into small pieces. When these dry ingre- dients are thoroughly mixed, stir in the butter, cream, treacle, and well- whisked eggs, and beat the mixture for a few minutes. Mix the soda with the dry ingredients, being very careful to leave no lumps, and stir the vinegar into the dough. When it is wetted, put the cake into a buttered mould or tin, place it in a moderate oven immediately, and bake it from if to z\ hours. Time.—if to 2f hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. 2464.—COCOA-NUT MACAROONS. Ingredients.—£ lb. of flour, f lb. of butter, 6 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz. of sifted sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.—Beat the sugar and butter together; add the cocoa-nut and the flour by degrees, then the eggs, still beating the mixture. Drop it in spoonfuls on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. Time.—About 8 minutes to bake the cakes. Aver- age Cost, is. 4d. Sufficient for 30 cakes. Seasonable at any time. COCOA-NUT MACA- ROONS. 2465.-COFFEE CAKE. Ingredients.—1 teacupful of brown sugar, 1 teacupful of golden syrup, f teacupful of butter, f teacupful of lard, 1 cup of cold coffee, 2 eggs, 1 cupful of currants, 1 cupful of stoned raisins, f teaspoonful of nutmeg, f teaspoonful of cloves, f teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- ful of bi-carbonate of soda, flour. Mode.—Wash the fruit and dry it. Then mix all the ingredients with sufficient flour to bind it. Bake 1 hour in a quick oven. Time—1 hour. Average Cost, is.