788 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Mode.— Peel and cut the turnips in the shape of pears or marbles; boil them in salt and water, to which has been added a little butter, until tender; then take them out, drain, arrange them on a dish, and pour over the white sauce made by recipe No. 665 or 666, and to which has been added a small lump of sugar. In winter, when other vegetables are scarce, this will be found a very good and pretty-looking dish: when approved, & little mustard may be added to the sauce. Time.—About | hour to boil the turnips. Average Cost, 4d. per bunch. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable in winter. The French Navet.—This is a variety of the turnip; but, instead of being globular has more the shape of the carrot. Its flavour being excellent, it is much esteemed on the Continent for soups and made-dishes. Two or three of them will impart as much flavour as a dozen of the common turnips will. Accordingly when stewed in gravy, they are greatly relished. This flavour resides in the rind, which is not cut oft, but scraped. This variety was once grown in England, but now it is rarely found in our gardens, though highly deserving of a place there. It is of a yellowish-white colour and is sometimes imported to the London market. 1646.—BOILED TURNIP-GREENS. (Fr.—Poussees de Navets.) Ingredients.—To each £ gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; turnip-greens. Mode.—Wash the greens well in two or three waters and pick off all the decayed and dead leaves; tie them in small bunches, and put them into plenty of boiling water, salted in the above proportion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the saucepan uncovered, and when tender, pour them into a colander; let them drain, arrange them in a vegetable-dish, remove the string that the greens were tied with, and serve. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. for a dish for 3 persons. Seasonable in March, April and May. Cabbage, Turnip-tops and Greens.—All the cabbage tribe, which comprises coleworts, brocoli, cauliflower, sprouts and turnip-tops, in order to be delicate, should be dressed young, when they have a rapid growth; but. if they have stood the summer, in order to be tender, they should be allowed to have a touch of frost. The cabbage contains much vegetable albumen and several parts of sulphur and nitrate of potass. Cabbage is heavy, and a long time digesting, which has led to a belief that it is very nourishing. It is only fit food for robust and active persons; the sedentary or delicate should carefully avoid it. Cabbage may be prepared in a variety of ways : it serves as a garniture to several recherche dishes—partridge and cabbage, for example. BacoD and cabbage is a very favourite dish ; but only a good stomach can digest it. i647._BOILED vegetable marrow. (Fr.—Courge au Beurre.) Ingredients.—To each £ gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; vegetable marrows.