395 Bubble and Squeak. Seasonable at any time. 880.-BROILED BEEF-BONES. Ingredients.—The bones of ribs or sirloin ; salt pepper and cayenne. Mode.—Separate the bones, taking care that the meat on them is not too thick in any part: sprinkle them well with the above seasoning, and broil over a very clear fire. When nicely browned, they are done; but do not allow them to blacken. 881.—TO DRESS A BULLOCK’S HEART. (Fr.—Cceur de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—I heart, stuffing of veal forcemeat, No. 629. Mode.—Put the heart into warm water to soak for 2 hours ; then wipe it well with a cloth, and, after cutting off the lobes, stuff the inside with a highly-seasoned forcemeat, No. 629. Fasten it in by means of a needle and coarse thread ; tie the heart up in paper, and set it before a good fire, being very particular to keep it well basted, or it will eat dry, there being very little of its own fat. Two or three minutes before serving, remove the paper; baste well, and serve with good gravy and red- currant jelly or melted butter. If tbe heart is very large it will re- quire 2 hours, and, covered with a caul, may be baked as well as roasted. Time.—Large hearts, 2 hours. Average Cost, 2$. 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. Note.—This is an excellent family dish, is very savoury, and, though not seen at many good tables, may be recommended for its cheapness and economy. 882.—BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—A few thin slices of cold boiled beef; butter, cabbage, 1 sliced onion, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Fry the slices of beef gently in a little butter, taking care not to dry them up. Lay them on a flat dish, and cover with fried greens. Tbe greens may be prepared from cabbage sprouts or green savoys. They should be boiled till tender, well drained, minced, and placed, till quite hot, in a frying-pan, with butter, a sliced onion, and seasoning of pepper and salt. When the onion is done, it is ready to serve. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold beef, 3d.