Boiled Ham. 543 frill of cut paper round the knuckle and serve. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in the water until nearly cold : by this method the juices are kept in, and it will be found infinitely superior to one taken out of the water hot. When the skin is removed, sprinkle over bread-raspings, or, if wanted particularly nice, glaze it. Place a paper frill round the knuckle, and garnish with parsley or cut vegetable flowers. Time.—A ham weighing io lbs., 4 hours to simmer gently: 15 lbs. 5 hours ; a very large one about 6 hours. Average Cost, from is. per lb. by the whole ham. Seasonable all the year. 1192.-HOW TO BOIL A HAM TO GIVE IT AN EXCELLENT FLAVOUR. Ingredients.—Vinegar and water, 2 heads of celery, 2 turnips, 3 onions, a large bunch of savoury herbs. Mode.—Prepare the ham as in the preceding recipe, and let it soak for a few hours in vinegar and water. Put it on in cold water, and when it boils, add the vegetables and herbs. Simmer very gently until tender, take it out, strip off the skin, cover with bread-raspings, and put a paper ruche or frill round the knuckle. Time.—A ham weighing 10 lbs., 4 hours. Average Cost, is. per lb. by the whole ham. Seasonable at any time. Hew to Silence a Pig. Anecdote of Charles V.—When the Emperor Charles V. was one day walking in the neighbourhood of Vienna, full of picus considerations, engendered by the thoughts of the Dominican cloister he was about to visit, he was much annoyed by the noise of a pig, which a country youth was carrying a little way before him. At length, irritated by the unmiti- gated noise. “ Have you not learned how to quiet a pig?” demanded the imperial traveller tartly. “ Noa,” replied the ingenious peasant, ignorant of the quality of his interrogator:—‘‘noa ; and 1 should very much like to know how to do it,” changing the position of his burthen, and giving his load a surreptitious pinch of the ear, which immediately altered the tone and volume of his com- plaining. “ Why, take the pig by the tail,” said the emperor, “ and you will see how quiet be will become.” Struck by the novelty of the suggestion, the countryman at once dangled his noisy companion by the tail, and soon discovered that, under the partial congestion caused by its inverted position, the pig had indeed become silent; when, looking with admiration on his august adviser, he exclaimed ■' “ Ah, you must have learned the trade much longer than I, for you understand it a great deal better.’’ 1193.—HAM TOAST. (Fr.— Jambon au Gratin.) Ingredients.—| lb. of lean ham, yolks of 2 eggs, gravy or cream, slices of toasted bread. Mode.— Mince the ham very finely, then put it in a saucepan with the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and enough gravy or cream to make a smooth