84 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. and may be changed as often as may be necessary, all Judson's filters, when cleaned and recharged with the necessary medium at home, as they can be and ought to be, being then as good in every respect as a filter used for the first time. No domestic filters, indeed, have yet been produced so simple in their construction and perfect in their action. They may be thoroughly cleaned, both inside and outside, every day if necessary, without disturbing the filtering material. These filters are made in many different styles for use indoors, out of doors, at home and away from home, but all are constructed on the same prin- ciple. It will be sufficient therefore to call attention to the A 1. style ot the “ Perfect Purity ” Filter whose exterior and interior is shown in the annexed illustration, and whose sizes, or rather capacities and prices, and the materials in which they are made, are as follows: Gallons $ 1 23 5 8 10 14 Pure White Decorated China Ware 15/6 22/6 32/6 42/6 — — — — Best Cream Coloured Stone Ware — 17/6 27/6 37/6 57/6 — — — Special Strong Brown Earthen Ware — — — — — 85/- 100/- 120/- The prices quoted are for the filters complete and ready for use and fitted with the best nickel-plated or stone-ware taps. Stands and ice-boxes for use with these filters are supplied at moderate prices. The cost of recharges varies for all filters according to capacity. Each recharge is packed in a separate tin with full directions. 177. Glass Filter for Sitting-room, etc.—Among the numerous styles of filters produced by Messrs. Judson and Son, Limited, attention may be specially called to the glass filters for sitting-room or bed-room, holding 1, 2, or 3 pints and sold at prices ranging from 2s. 3d. to 6s., according to quality, that is to say whether in plain or cut glass. An illustration of one of these is given here. The filters for insuring the perfect filtration of the water supply before drawing for household use are most desirable and inexpensive, consider- ing the purpose they fulfil, costing only £5 and £5 5s. according to style. 178. The Kettle.—This is an important factor in the well-being of the household, and ite form requires careful consideration, the chief desideratum being a form that will admit of and assist in the heating of the water contained in it in the shortest possible time. This seems to be fully attained in the Steel Range Kettle with seamless copper well, and the Registered Corrugated Kettle, manufactured by Messrs. Loveridge and Co., illustrations of which are given in page 85. The copper well of the Steel Range Kettle fits into the hole in the hot plate of the range, immediately over the fire, and is exposed on all sides and at the bottom to the full action of the heat of the burning coals. Being made of strong turned steel and seamless, there is no chance of leakage which sometimes occurs in ordinary kettles made of pieces joined together with soldered seams. This kettle is made in four sizes, holding 3, 4, 6 and 8 quarts, and sold at 8s. 6d., gs. 6d., ns. and 13s. each. In the Registered Corrugated Kettle, the corrugated or fluted form of the bottom not only adds to the strength of the kettle, but in creases the heating surface about 20 per cent, causing the water to boil in a very much shorter time than in an ordinary flat-bottomed kettle. The peculiar form of this kettle, both as regards the fluted bottom and dome top, renders it especi- ally suitable for use on gas or petroleum stoves or spirit lamps. This kettle is made in polished turned steel in nine sizes, holding from 1 to 12 pints, and sold at prices ranging from is. 10d. to 7s. 6d,, according to size. It is also made in polished copper or brass in the four smaller sizes, from 1 to 3 pints, sold at from 5s. to 7s. 6d. with ordinary handle, or from 5s. 6d. to ios.with fall-down wickered handle. In the five larger sizes, holding from 4 to 12 pints, it is made in polished copper with turned handle and spout, and sold at prices ranging from 8s. to 18s.