The Doctor. i57o Usually, when people are abruptly aroused from profound slumber, the action of the heart becomes quickened or otherwise disturbed. The effects of a habitual deficiency of sleep are a sense of wretchedness and prostration, frequently accompanied by great restlessness. Headache, fulness, heat, throbbing and various other unpleasant sensations about the head, give warning that the brain is being overtasked, and, should this warning pass unheeded, sleep, which at first it was difficult to resist, becomes even more difficult to obtain; a state of general restlessness and feverish excitement is induced ; and if, in spite of this, the effort be continued, serious consequences are almost sure to be induced. In average health, the best cure for sleeplessness is duly regulated exercise of body and mind. Among the simple and almost hygienic means of promoting sleep is cold water or cold water and vinegar sponged over the forehead and temples when the restlessness appears to be due to congestion and heat about the head. The bed-chamber should be well ventilated. It is better to lie upon an inclined plane, or with the head moderately raised, but not so high as to produce any strain upon the muscles of the neck. Complete darkness should be secured as far as possible. Anxiety or excessive effort to procure sleep are foes to slumber. CONTAGION AND CONTAGIOUS DISEASES. 3535. Contagion, a name derived from the two Latin words, con and tango, to touch together, is the term applied to the material in consequence of which a healthy person touching a diseased one may have conveyed to him the disease with which the latter individual is affected. The word infection is applied to the substance or influence by which a malady is transmitted from one person tc another, either with or without actual contact. The type of infectious diseases is small-pox, and it is also, as is well known, a highly contagious complaint. Scarlet- fever, measles, whooping-cough, mumps, &c., are likewise both contagious and infectious, and make up the class of disorders popularly known as diseases which are “ catching.” The most probable doctrine of the true nature of contagion is that set forth in the germ theory of disease. This hypothesis professes to account for the symptoms of the contagious diseases by attributing them to the more or less mechanical irritation of groups of microscopic plants developing in the blood, the skin and the vital organs of affected persons. The period of incubation (by which is meant the time between exposure to small-pox, for example, and the outbreak of the complaint) is supposed to corres- pond with the time required for the sprouting of the seeds of these minute plants within the body. The gradual increase in the severity of the symptoms is attri- buted to the progressive growth of millions of tiny vegetable organisms whose period of greatest luxuriance marks the height of the attack, and the death and destruction of which correspond to the decline of the disease. 3536. Germ Theory.—The contagiousness of the communicable mala- dies is accounted for by the existence of the immense number of almost inconceivably small seeds constantly produced, given off from the sick patient, and carried through the air of a room or house either alone or attached to the innumerable epithelial scales which are all the time being rubbed off, as dandruff, &c.. from our bodies. The general absence of second attacks is admirably explained by the hypothesis that the parasitic fungus, on the first occasion, has exhausted all, or nearly all, of some peculiar unknown organic ingredient in our systems which is absolutely requisite for its support.