Boiled Potatoes. 7^7 for a fork to be easily thrust through them, dash some cold water into the pan, let the potatoes remain two minutes, then pour off the water. Then half remove the lid, and let the potatoes remain on the slow fire till the steam has evaporated ; then peel them, and set on the table in an open dish. Potatoes of a good kind thus cooked will always be sweet, dry and mealy. A covered dish is bad for potatoes, as it keeps the steam in, and makes them soft and watery. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, id. per lb. Seasonable at any time. 1604—TO BOIL POTATOES IN THEIR JACKETS. (Fv.—Pommes de Terre au Naturel.) Ingredients.—10 or 12 potatoes ; to each | gallon of water, allow x heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—To obtain this wholesome and delicious vegetable cooked in perfection, it should be boiled and sent to taole with the skin on. In Ireland, where, perhaps, the cooking of potatoes is better under- stood than in any country, they are always served so. Wash the pota- toes well, and if necessary use a clean scrubbing brush to remove the dirt from them ; and if possible, choose the potatoes so that they may all be as nearly the same size as possible. When thoroughly cleansed, fill the saucepan half full with them, and just cover the potatoes with cold water, salted in the above proportion ; they are more quickly boiled with a small quantity of water, and, besides, are more savoury than when drowned in it. Bring them to boil, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let them simmer gently until tender. Ascer- tain when they are done by probing them with a fork; then pour off the water, uncover the saucepan, and let the potatoes dry by the side of the fire, taking care not to let them burn. Peel them quickly, put them in a very hot vegetable-dish, either with or without a napkin, and serve very quickly. After potatoes are cooked, they should never be entirely covered up, as the steam, instead of escaping, falls down on them, and makes them watery and insipid. In Ireland they are usually served up with the skins on, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest. Time.—Moderate-sized potatoes, with their skins on, 20 to 25 minutes after the water boils; large potatoes 25 minutes to \ hour, or longer; 5 minutes to dry them. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient for 6 persons Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season.