388 Recipes for Cooking Beef. 868.-BEEF STEAK AND OYSTER SAUCE, (Fr.—Bifteck aux Huitres.) Ingredients.—3 dozeti oystefS, ingredients for oyster sauce (sit No. 752), 2 lbs. of rump-steak, Seasoning to taste, of pepper and salt. Mode.—Make the oyster sauce by recipe No. 752, and when that is ready put it by the side of the fire, but do not let it keep boiling. Have the steaks cut of an equal thickness, broil them over a very clear fire, turning them often, that the gravy may not escape. In about eight minutes they will be done, when put them on a very hot dish ; smother with the oyster sauce, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Serve quickly. Time.—About 8 to 10 minutes, according to the thickness of the steak. Average Cost, 5s. M. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from September to April. 869.—BEEFSTEAK PIE. (Fr.—Pat6 de Bifteck Chaud.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of steak, seasoning to taste, of salt, cayenne and black pepper, crust, water, the yolk of an egg. Mode.—Have the steaks cut from a rump that has hung a few days, that they may be tender, and be particular that every portion is perfectly sweet. Cut the steaks into pieces about three inches long and two wide, allowing a small piece of fat to each piece of lean, and arrange the meat in layers in a pie-dish. Between each layer sprinkle a seasoning of salt, pepper and, when liked, a few grains of cayenne Fill the dish sufficiently with meat to support the crust, and to give it a nice raised appearance when baked, and not to look flat and hollow. Pour in sufficient water to half fill the dish, cover it with a tin, and bake for f of an hour. Take it out of the oven, and when cold put on the crust, first putting a rim of paste round the edge. Ornament the j>ie with leaves or pieces of paste, cut in any shape that fancy may direct, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg; make a hole in the top of the crust, and bake in a hot oven for about an hour and a half. The addition of some sheep’s kidneys is an improvement; or, if these cannot be had, some bullock’s kidney, cut up small, is almost as good, and forms an excellent gravy. Time.—In a hot oven, i| hour. Average Cost, for this size, 4s. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Beef-steak pies may be flavoured in various ways, with oysters and their liquor, mushrooms, minced onions, &c. For family pies, suet may be BEBF-STEAK PIE.