To Keep Bacon Sweet. 541 you a great deal more in salt than the sopping mode, out without it your bacon will not be so sweet and fine, nor keep so well. As for the time required in making your flitches sufficiently salt, it depends on circum- stances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place, but for the flitches of a hog of five score, in weather not very dry or damp, about 6 weeks may do; and as yours is to be fat, which receives little injury from over-salting, give time enough for you to have bacon until Christ- mas comes again. 1187. The Place for Salting should, like a dairy, always be cool, but well ventilated ; confined air, though cool, will taint meat sooner than the mid-day sun, accompanied by a breeze. With regard to smoking the bacon, two precautions are necessary: first to hang the flitches where no rain comes down upon them ; and next, that the smoke must proceed from wood, not peat, turf, or coal. As to the time required to smoke a flit"h, it depends a good deal upon whether there be a constant fire beneath : and whether the fire be large or small: a month will do if the fire be pretty constant and rich, as a farm-house fire usually is; but over- smoking, or rather too long hanging in the air, makes the bacon rust; great attention should therefore be paid to this matter. The flitch ought not to be dried up to the hardness of a board, and yet it ought to be per- fectly dry. Before you hang it up, lay it on the floor, scatter the flesh side pretty thickly over with bran or with some fine sawdust, not of deal or fir ; rub it on the flesh, or pat it well down upon it: this keeps the smoke from getting into the little openings, and makes a sort of crust to be dried on. 1188. To keep the Bacon Sweet and Good, and free from hoppers, sift fine some clean and dry wood-ashes. Put some at the bottom of a box or chest long enough to hold a flitch of bacon; lay in one flitch, and then put in more ashes, then another flitch, and cover this with 6 or 8 inches of the ashes. The place where the box or chest is kept ought to be dry, and should the ashes become damp, they should be put in the fire- place to dry, and when cold, put back again. With these precautions, the bacon will be as good at the end of the year as on the first day, 1189. For Simple General Rules, these may be safely taken as a guide; and those who implicity follow the directions given, will possess at the expiration of from 6 weeks to 2 months well-flavoured and well- cured bacon. Hog not Bacon. Anedote of Lord Bacon.— As Lord Bacon, on one occasion, was about to pass sentence of death upon a man of the name of Hogg, who had just been tried for a long career of crime, the prisoner suddenly claimed to be -heard in arrest of judgment, saying, with an expres- sion of arch confidence as he addressed the bench, “I claim indulgence, my lord, on the plea of relationship ; for I am convinced your lordship will sever be unnatural enough to hang one of your own family/’