Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 630 1322.—FRIED RABBIT. (Fr.—Lapin Frit.) Ingredients.—1 rabbit, flour, dripping, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of minced shalot, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the rabbit into neat joints, and flour them well ; make the dripping boiling in a frying-pan, put in the rabbit, and fry it a nice brown. Have ready a very hot dish, put in the butter, shalot and ketchup ; arrange the rabbit pyramidically on this, and serve as quickly as possible. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, from 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. Note.—The rabbit may be brushed over with egg, and sprinkled with bread- crumbs, and fried as above. When cooked in this manner, make a gravy in the pan, and pour it round, but not over, the pieces of rabbit. Varieties in Rabbits.—Almost everybody knows that a rabbit is a furry animal, that lives on plants, and burrows in the ground ; that it has its varieties as well as other animals, and that it is frequently an especial favourite with boys. Among its varieties, the short-legged, with width and substance of loin, is the most hardy, and fattens the most expeditiously. It has. besides, the soundest liver, rabbits generally being subject to defects of that part. It is also the smallest variety. There is a very large species of the hare-colour, having much bone, length and depth of carcass, large and long ears, with full eyes, resembling those of the hare ; it might readily be taken for a hybrid or mule, but for the objection to its breeding. Its flesh is high-coloured, substantial, and more savoury than that of the common rabbit; and, cooked like the hare, it makes a good dish. The large white and yellow and white species have whiter and more delicate flesh, and, cooked in the same way, will rival the turkey. Rabbits are divided into four kinds, distinguished as warreners, parkers, hedgehogs and sweethearts. The warrener, as his name implies, is a member of a subterranean community, and is less effe- minate than his kindred who dwell upon the earth and have “ the world at their will,” and his fur is the most esteemed. After him, comes the parker, whose favourite resort is a gentleman’s pleasure-ground, where he usually breeds in great numbers, and from which he frequently drives away the hares. The hedgehog is a sort of vagab lid rabbit, that, tinker-like, roams about the country, and would have a much better coat on his back if he were more settled in his habits, and remained more at home. The sweetheart is a tame rabbit, with its fur so sleek, soft and silky that it is also used to some extent in the important branch of hat making. 1323.-RABBIT A LA MINUTE. (Fr.—Lapin a la Minute.) Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 7f lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, 3 dried mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, 2 glasses of sherry, 1 pint of water. Mode.—Empty, skin and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it into joints. Put the butter into a stewpan with the pieces of rabbit; add salt, pepper and pounded mace, and let it cook until three-parts done ; then put in the remaining ingredients, and boil for about ten minutes; it will then be ready to serve. Fowls or hare may be dressed in the same manner. Time.—Altogether 35 minutes. Average Cost, M. per lb. Sufficient lor 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February.