278 Recipes for Cooking Fish. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell and pound it in a mortar with the butter, and gradually add the mace and seasoning, well mixing the ingredients; beat all to a smooth paste, and add a little of the spawn; divide the mixture into pieces of an equal size, and shape them like cutlets. They should not be very thick. Brush them over with egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and stick a short piece of the small claw in the top of each ; fry them of a nice brown in boiling lard, and drain them before the fire on a sieve reversed ; arrange them nicely on a dish, and pour bechamel in the middle, but not over the cutlets. Time.—About 8 minutes after the cutlets are made. Average Cost, for this dish with fresh lobster, 2s. 9d. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. 596.—LOBSTER CUTLETS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Homard.) {Another Mode.) Cut the meat into small dice. Rub the coral and spawn through a wire sieve with an oz. of butter. Melt an oz. of butter in a stewpan, add an oz. of flour and J of a pint of water or milk. When it is thick enough to leave the sides of the saucepan, add lemon-juice, cayenne and a little cream or the yolk of an egg. Beat it well. Add the lobster and the butter. When quite cold, flour a board and a knife, and shape it to resemble thick small mutton cutlets. Egg and bread-crumb, and again press into shape on the board. Fry in a saucepan of fat or oil. Serve with fried parsley. A small lobster, or half a tin, makes 8 or 9 cutlets. The stiffer they are the easier to shape, the moister they are the better the taste. Average Cost, with fresh lobster, 2s. Sufficient for 8 persons. 597— LOBSTER CUTLETS. {From Tinned Lobster.) Ingredients.—£ a tin of lobster, cut up but not mashed ; bread-crumbs, 1 oz. of butter or good dripping, cayenne, lemon-juice or vinegar, 1 oz. of flour, | of a pint of milk or water, 1 egg, parsley. Mode.—Melt the butter in a round-bottomed pan, add the flour and the milk, and stir till it makes a thick paste. Put in the fish with a teaspoon- ful of lemon-juice or vinegar, cayenne and salt to taste. Turn it on a plate and leave for a few hours till quite cold and firm. Shape it into cutlets with a floured knife on a floured board, egg and bread-crumb them, shape them again, and fry in a saucepan of fat or oil. The parsley is to