495 Haricot Mutton. Time.—2% hours to simmer gently. Average Cost, 3s. 4d. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1086.—HARICOT MUTTON. (TV.-Haricot de Mouton.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold neck or loin of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, | pint of good gravy, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of port, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery. Mode.—Cut the cold mutton into moderate-sized chops, and take off the fat; slice the onions, and fry them with the chops, in a little butter, of a nice brown colour; stir in the flour, add the gravy, and let it stew gently nearly an hour. In the meantime, boil the vegetables until nearly tender, slice them, and add them to the mutton about a quarter of of an hour before it is to be served. Season with pepper and salt, add the ketchup and port, give one boil, and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold meat, is. Seasonable at any time. 1087.—SCOTCH HAGGIS. Ingredients.—Sheep’s pluck and stomach, £ lb of suet, £ lb. of oatmeal, an onion, pepper and salt. Mode.—Have the stomach bag properly cleaned by the butcher, wash it well and put it in a saucepan of cold water and bring to the boil, which will make the bag contract. Take it out of the water at once, wash and scrape it well and lay it in salt and water. Wash the pluck thoroughly and boil it gently for one hour and a half with the windpipe hanging out over the edge of the pot that all impurities may escape through it. Take all gristly parts from the lungs and heart, and mince the remainder, grate the best parts of the liver, chop the suet and onion fine, toast the oatmeal in the oven and put all in a basin, with a dessertspoon- ful of salt and rather less than half the quantity of pepper. Moisten with half a pint of the liquor in which the pluck was boi'ed. Take the stomach bag from the brine and, keeping the smooth side inside, fill it with the mixture (not quite full) and sew it up. Put the.haggis in a pot of boiling water and boil it gently for 3 hours, with a plate under to prevent it from sticking, and prick it now and then with a needle to prevent it bursting. Time.—3 hours to boil the haggis. 1088.—HASHED MUTTON. {Ft.— Ragout de Mouton.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold ioast shoulder or leg of mutton, 6 whole peppers, 6 whole allspice a faggot of savoury herbs, i head of celery, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, flour.