170 Recipes for Soups. Sufficient for 8 persons. Mode.—Stick the cloves into the onion, and put it and the rest of the vegetables into a saucepan with the stock. Cut the tails into 2-inch pieces and add them. Simmer gently for i£ hours ; then take the meat from the stock, rinse it in cold water and lay on a sieve to drain. Skim all grease from the stock, thicken it with flour, and strain it into another saucepan containing the pieces of meat and some forcemeat quenelles (No. .634). Five minutes before serving putin the cream, sherry, the well- beaten yolks of the eggs, and the grated cheese, with salt and pepper to taste. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average Cost, is. 7d. per quart,without the forcemeat. Seasonable in the winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. 349.—CHICKEN SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe au Poulet.) Ingredients.—1 chicken, 3 carrots, 1 pint of tomatoes, 1 teacupful of Lima beans, 1 pint of milk, flour, cayenne, salt to taste. Mode.—Cut up a chicken into small pieces, and put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it; cut up the vegetables and add them with the beans. Keep the saucepan simmering for 3 hours; then add the milk and thicken smoothly with flour. Simmer for 1 hour longer, then add the seasoning and serve. Time.—4i hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. Seasonable in the summer Sufficient for 4 persons. 350.—COTTAGE SOUP. (Fr.—Potage au Paysan.) (Good Family Soup.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of lean beef, J lb. of streaky bacon, J lb. of mixed vegetables (turnip, carrot, onion) ; 2 lbs. of mealy potatoes, % oz. of rice, 2 oz. of good dripping, pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the beef and bacon into very small pieces, slice the vegetables. Put the meat and onion with the dripping into a stewpan, and fry till nicely browned; then add the sliced carrots and potatoes, and 4 quarts of water. Stew all slowly for 3 hours keeping the saucepan lid firmly on during cooking. About half an hour before serving add the rice, turnip, pepper and salt. Time.—About 4 hours. Average Cost, id. per quart. Seasonable all the year.