510 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. iu6.—LAMB CHOPS. (Fr — Gotelettes d’Agneau.) Ingredients.—Loin of lamb, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Trim off the flap from a fine loin of lamb, and cut it into chops about three-quarters of an inch in thickness. Have ready a bright clear fire; lay the chops on a gridiron, and broil them of a nice pale brown, turning them when required. Season them with pepper and salt: serve very hot and quickly, and garnish with crisped parsley, or place them on mashed potatoes. Asparagus, spinach, or peas are the favourite accom- paniments of lamb chops. Time.—About 8 or io minutes. Average Cost, n^. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 2 chops to each person. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. 1117.—LAMB’S FRY. Ingredients. —1 lb. of lamb’s fry, 3 pints of water, egg and bread- crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Boil the fry for a quarter of an hour in the above proportion of water, take it out and dry it in a cloth; grate some bread down finely, mix with it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a high seasoning of pepper and salt. Brush the fry lightly over with the yolk cf an egg, sprinkle over the bread-crumbs, and fry for 5 minutes. Serve very hot on a napkin in a dish, and garnish with plenty ot crisped parsley. Time.—i-hour to simmer the fry; 5 minutes to fry it. Average Cost, about 8d. to 10d. per lb. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. xii8.—HASHED LAMB AND BROILED BLADEBONE. (Fr.— Epaule d’Agneau a la Sauce Piquante.) Ingredients.—The remains of a cold shoulder of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, about i pint of stock or gravy, 1 tablespoon- ful of shalot vinegar, 3 or 4 pickled gherkins. Mode.—Take the bladebone from the shoulder, and cut the meat into collops as neatly as possible. Season the bone with pepper and salt, pour a little oiled butter over it, and place it in the oven to warm through. Put the stock into a stewpan, add the ketchup and shalot vinegar, and lay in the pieces of lamb. Let these heat gradually through, but do .lot allow tnem to boil. Take the bladebone out of the oven and place it on a gridiron over a sharp fire to brown. Slice the gherkins, put them into thq