Lobster Ragout. 279 Sufficient for 6 persons. fry for garnish. Serve on white paper, or a fish-napkin. This makes 8 or 9. For the crumbs dry any pieces of bread or crust in the oven, pound them, sift them through a sieve, and keep in a bottle for use. Time.—15 minutes to make in the morning, £ hour to shape and fry. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. 598—LOBSTER PATTIES (an Entree.) (Fr.—Petits Pates au Homard.) Ingredients.—Minced Lobster, 4 tablespoonfuls of bechamel, 6 drops of anchovy sauce, lemon-juice, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Line the patty-pans with puff paste, and fill each with flour; cover with paste, brush over with egg, and bake of a light colour. Take as much lobster as is required, mince the meat very fine, and add the above ingredients; stir it over the fire for 5 minutes; remove the lids of the patty-pans, take out the flour, fill with the mixture, and replace the covers. (See also Vol-au-Vents for another way of making the cases.) Time.—About 5 minutes after the patty-cases are made. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 12 small patties. Local Attachment of the Lobster.—It is said that the attachment of this animal is strong to some particular parts of the sea, a circumstance celebrated in the following lines:— “ Nought like their home the constant lobsters prize, And foreign shores and seas unknown despise. Though cruel hands the banish’d wretch expel, And force the captive from his native cell, He will, if freed, return with anxious care, Find the known rock, and to his home repair No novel customs learns in different seas, But wonted food and home-taught manners please.'1 599—LOBSTER RAGOGt. Ingredients.—1 large lobster, 2 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, salt, pepper, mace, 1 gill of water. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell of a boiled lobster and cut it in small pieces; pound the spawn in a mortar with the butter, pepper, salt and a little mace. Put a gill of water into a saucepan, beat the eggs well and add, then put in the spawn and stir quickly over the fire for 10 minutes. Add the pieces of lobster, boil up at once and serve very hot. Time.—About } hour. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Seasonable—Best from March to October.