Calf’s Feet. 437 illto slices. Procure a pretty mould ; lay veal, ham, eggs and parsley in layers, with a little pepper between each; and when the mould is full, get some strong stock and fill up the shape. Bake for half an hour, and, when cold, turn it out. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the veal and ham, 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 974.—VEAL GALANTINE. (Fr.—Galantine de Veau.) Ingredients.—Small breast of veal, 2 lbs. of sausage-meat highly flavoured with herbs, £ lb. of (cooked tongue (bacon or ham may be sub- stituted for this), some truffles, mushrooms, pistachio nuts and gherkins. Mode.—Bone the veal and flatten it well out, then spread over a thick layer of sausage-meat, next a layer of small dice cut from the tongue, truffles, mushrooms and gherkins, upon which scatter a few chopped pistachio nuts, then another layer of sausage-meat. Roll in a cloth, as a jam pudding, and boil 6 hours. When half cold tie up tight and press with heavy weights upon the top ; and when wanted glaze and serve gar- nished with parsley and some good aspic jelly, which may be made from the stock in which the galantine has been boiled. This jelly may be cut into lozenges or roughed with a fork; and if a little of it be coloured with cochineal the garnish will be prettier. Cooked ham may be substituted for the tongue if preferred, and the seasoning be varied according to individual taste. Time.—6 hours to boil the galantine. Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient for supper dish. Seasonable from March to October. When a Calf should he Killed.—The age at which a calf ought to be killed should not be under four weeks : before that time the flesh is certainly not wholesome, wanting firmness, due development of muscular fibre, and those animal juices on which the flavour and nutritive proper- ties of the flesh depend, whatever the unhealthy palate of epicures may deem to the contrary. In France, a law exists to prevent the slaughtering of calves under six weeks of age. The calf is considered in prime condition at ten weeks, when he will weigh from sixteen to eighteen stone, and sometimes even twenty. 975—F R I CASS E E D CALF’S FEET. (Fr.—Pieds de Veau en Fricassee.) Ingredients.—A set of calf s feet (four); for the batter allow for each egg 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of bread-crumbs, hot lard or clarified dripping, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—If the feet are purchased unclean, dip them into warm water repeatedly, and scrape off the hair, first one foot and then the other, until the skin looks perfectly clean, a saucepan of water being kept by the fire until they are finished. After washing and soaking in cold water, boil