85b Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. Mode.—Blanch the chestnuts in boiling water, remove the husks, and pound them in a mortar until perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of syrup. Then rub them through a fine sieve, and mix them in a basin with a pint of syrup made from 1 lb. of sugar, clarified and flavoured with vanilla, 1 pint of cream, and the yolks of 12 eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, stirring it without ceasing, and just as it begins to boil, take it off and pass it through a tammy. When it is cold, put it into a freezing-pot, adding the Maraschino, and make the mixture set; then add the sliced citron, the cherries, and stoned raisins (these two latter should be soaked the day previously in Maraschino and sugar pounded with vanilla); to the whole thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped cream mixed with the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth with a little syrup. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put it into a pineapple-shaped mould : close the lid, place it again in the freezing-pan, covered over with pounded ice and saltpetre, and let it remain until required for table; then turn the pudding out, and serve. Time.—£ hour to freeze the mixture. Average Cost, 5s. Seasonable from October to February. 1825.—NEWMARKET PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 oz. of ground bitter almonds, 3 oz. of sweet almonds, 10 penny sponge cakes, 3 oz. of citron and lemon-peel cut very fine, 3 oz. of currants, 3 oz. of muscatel raisins, 5 eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, 1 pint of milk, 1 pot of red currant jelly. Mode.—Beat well together the eggs, s igar, and milk. Break up and mix all the other ingredients (save the jelly), and fill a pudding mould which has already been buttered and thickly lined with currants. Pour the custard in, screw paper over, and steam for 1 hour. Melt the pot of jelly, with this mask the pudding, and serve hot. Time.—1| hours. Average Cost, 2s. 8d. Seasonable at any time. 1826.-BAKED ORANGE PUDDING. Ingredients.—6 oz. of stale sponge-cake or bruised ratafias, 6 oranges, 1 pint of milk, 6 eggs, £ lb. of sugar. Mode.—Bruise the sponge-cake or ratafias into fine crumbs, and pour upon them the milk, which should be boiling. Rub the rinds of 2 of the oranges on sugar, and add this, with the juice of the remainder, to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, stir them in, sweeten to taste, and put the mixture into a pie-dish previously lined with puff-paste. Bake for rather more than half an hour; turn it out of the dish, strew sifted sugar over, and serve.