1020 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces, Sufficient.—i| pint of fruit, with 3 0z. of pounded sugar, for a or 5 persons. Seasonable in summer. 2209— STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM. Ingredients.—To every pint of picked strawberries allow J pint of cream, 2 oz. of finely-pounded sugar. Mode.—Pick the stalks from the fruit, place it on a glass dish, sprinkle over it pounded sugar, and slightly stir the strawberries, that they may all be equally sweetened; pour the cream over the top, and serve. Devonshire cream, when it can be obtained, is exceedingly delicious for this dish ; and, if very thick indeed, may be diluted with a little thin creanl or milk. Average Cost, for one dish, is. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June and July. 2210.—STRAWBERRY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow i£ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Select well ripened but sound strawberries ; pick them from the stalks, and put the fruit and sugar in a preserving-pan. Simmer the whole over a moderate fire from a half to three-quarters of an hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Stir the jam only enough to prevent it from burning at the bottom of the pan, as the fruit should be preserved as whole as possible. Put the jam into jars, and, when cold, cover down. Time.—5 to 3 hour, reckoning from the time the jam simmers all over. Average Cost, from 7d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—12 pints of strawberries will make 10 lb.-pots of jam. Seasonable in June and July. 2211.-PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES IN WINE. Ingredients.—To every quart bottle allow J lb. ol finely-pounded loai sugar ; sherry or Madeira. Mode.—Let the truit be gathered in fine weather, and used as soon as picked. Have ready some perfectly dry glass bottles, and some rice sotfc corks or bungs. Pick the stalks from the strawberries, drop them into the bottles, sprinkling amongst them pounded sugar in the above proportion, and when the fruit reaches to the neck of the bottle, fill up with sherry or Madeira. Cork the bottles down with new corks, and dip them into melted resin. Seasonable.—Make this in June or July.