222 Recipes for Cooking Fish. Mode.—Boil the fish in salt and water if not already cooked, then pick ill meat from the shells and put it into a stewpan with some chopped mushrooms or truffles and a little butter; simmer for io minutes over a gentle fire. When almost done add the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs, the cream and some minced parsley. Stew all together till it is of the con- sistence of thick paste; press into pots and cover with clarified butter, totally excluding the air. Time.—25 minutes. Average Cost, crabs, 10d. to 2s.; lobsters, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 458.—CRAYFISH. (Fr.—Ecrevisse.) Crayfish should be thrown into boiling water, to which has been added a good seasoning of salt and a little vinegar. When done, which will be in a quarter of an hour, take them out and drain them. Let them cool, arrange them on a napkin, and garnish with plenty of double parsley. Average Cost, is. to 3s. per dozen. Note.—This fish is frequently used for garnishing. It should be oftener employed for the delicious Potage Bisque than it at present is; housewives should excite a demand for it amongst the fishmongers, and a supply would soon be forthcoming. 459—POTTED CRAYFISH. (Fr.—Ecrevisse en Terrine.) Ingredients.—4 doz. crayfish ; pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, ^ lb. of butter. Mode.—Boil the fish in salt and water; pick out all the meat and pound it in a mortar to a paste. Whilst pounding, add the butter gradually, and mix it in the spice and seasoning. Put it in small pots, and pour over it clarified butter, carefully excluding the air. Time.—15 minutes to boil the crayfish. Average Cost, %s. Seasonable all the year. 460.—JOHN DORY. (Fr.—Doret.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—This fish, which is esteemed by most people a great delicacy, is dressed in the same way as a turbot, which it resembles in firmness, but not in richness. Cleanse it thoroughly, and cut off the fins but not the head, which is considered a delicacy; lay it in a fish-kettle, cover with warm water, and add salt in the above proportion. Bring it gradually to a boil, and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, or rather longer should the fish be very large. Serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Lobster, anchovy, or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should be sent to table with it.