530 General Observations on the Common Hog. muscles develop. If he is fed on nuts the fat is flabby and poor, of quite a different consistence to what it might have been had he fed on meal and lain quietly on clean straw in the corner of the sty. The unwholesomeness of pork is in some measure owing to the unwholesome food and life of the animal. Small-boned lean pork is preferred for roasting. The larger and fatter animal is salted down for bacon and ham, in which form pork is generally eaten. Every part of the pig is sold for food. It is not even skinned, as most animals are. It also wastes less in cooking than most meat— the rule being, the more fat the less water and the less waste. It has more flavour and goes farther than other meat, and is essentially the meat of the poor, by whom it is eaten all the year round; but it is not seen on well-furnished tables during the summer months except salted as bacon or ham. 1166. Unwholesome Pork.—As has been already observed, pigs are peculiarly liable to parasitic disease. The Cysticercus cellulosae is met with in the form of a small cyst about the size of a hemp seed, imbedded in the muscular tissue ; and when meat thus infested is eaten, it gives rise to the development of tapeworm in the human alimentary canal. Such diseased meat is known as 11 measly pork.” Oxen are also infested with Cysticerci, but far less frequently. These parasites are killed by a temperature high enough to cook the meat thoroughly. Another parasite—the Trichina spiralis—produces more serious effects, death having been frequently caused by the presence of trichinae in the human body. The disease has been principally noticed in Germany, where it is customary to eat smoked ham and sausages in an uncooked state. "As a point of practical importance,” says Dr. Pavy, " it may be stated that neither salting, smoking nor moderately heating affords any security against the development of the trichinous disease from infested meat. Exposure, however, to the temperature of boiling water effectively kills the animal, but it is obvious that the temperature must be raised throughout every particle of the meat, to ensure that it is rendered harmless.” Undercooked or uncooked pork should never, on any account, be eaten. 1167. 'To Choose Pork.—Unlike every other animal, every part of the pig serves for food, from the skin, “ crackling,” on the joint of roast pork, to the black puddings of the country people. The fat of good pork should be white, and the lean of a brownish hue, free from streaks and patches of colour. The grain should be fine and the rind thin. It is of all meats the most difficult to digest, and should never be given to the invalid or the dyspeptic. Unlike other meat, it is decidedly more digestible when salt than fresh, and it loses in the process of salting much less of its nutritive value than other meat, because it is chiefly fat, with little lean and little water. The invariable rule is “ the more fat, the less water.” 1168. Ilam.—The best hams come from York, Cumberland and Westmore- land, or are reputed to do so; but many sold under those names are imported from Ireland or sent from the west of England. Westphalian hams have an excellent reputation and are sold at a high price; they are very high flavoured. Canadian sugar-cured hams are low-priced and conveniently small, but they are apt to be excessively salt, and require careful soaking and cooking. Spain and Portugal also send us hams. i 1169. To Choose a Ham, select first one with short bones; then run a knife or skewer in close to the bone to the middle of the ham. If it comes out clean and smells sweet it is good, but if it smells strong and has fat adhering to it, choose another. If the ham is cut, see that the fat is white and not streaked with yellow. All meat first goes bad near the bone, and in legs the part known as “ the pope’s eye ” is sure to turn before the lean surrounding it. A ham may not be rancid