6go Recipes for Cooking Game. 1419.—STEWED VENISON. (Fr.—Venaison, Sauce au Vin Rouge.) Ingredients.—A shoulder of venison, a few slices of mutton-fat, 2 glasses of port, pepper and allspice to taste, pint of weak stock or gravy, £ teaspoonful of whole pepper, ^ teaspoonful of whole allspice. Mode.—Hang the venison till tender; take out the bone, flatten the meat with a rolling-pin, and place over it a few slices of mutton-fat, which have been previously soaked for 2 or 3 hours in port; sprinkle these with a little fine allspice and pepper, roll the meat up, and bind and tie it securely. Put it in a stewpan, with the bone and the above proportion of weak stock or gravy, whole allspice, black pepper and port; cover the lid down closely and simmer very gently, from 3^ to 4 hours. When quite tender, take off the tape, and dish the meat; strain the gravy over it, and send it to table with red-currant jelly. Unless the joint is very fat, the above is the best mode of cooking it. Time.—3^ to 4 hours. Average Cost, is. 4d. to is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. Seasonable.—Buck-venison, from June to Michaelmas; doe-venison, from November to the end of January. The Roebuck.—This is the Cervus capreolus, or common roe, and is of a reddish-brown colour. It is an inhabitant of Asia, as well as of Europe. It has great grace in its movements, and stands THE ROEBUCK. about two feet seven inches high, and has a length of about three feet nine. The extent of its horns is from six to eight inches. The Stag.—The stag, or hart, is the male of the red deer, and the hind is the female. He is much larger than the fallow-deer, and h:s age is indicated by his horns, which are round instead of being palmated, like those of the fallow-deer. During the first year he has no horns, but a horny excrescence, which is short and rough, and covered with a thin hairy skin. The next year, the horns are single and straight ; and in the third they have two antlers, three the fourth, four the fifth, and five the sixth year ; although this number is not always certain, for sometimes they are more, and often less. After the sixth year, the antlers do not always increase; and, although in number they may amount to six or seven on each side, yet the animal’s age is then estimated rather by the size of the antlers and the thickness of the branch which sustains them than by their variety. Large as these horns seem, however, they are shed every year, and their place supplied by new ones. This usually takes place in the spring. When the old horns have fallen off, the new ones do not make their appearance immediately; but the bones of the skull are seen covered with a transparent periosteum, or skin, which enwraps the bones of all anidials. After a thort time, however, the skin begins to swell, and to form a sort of tumour. From this, by-and-by, rising from the head, shoot forth the antlers from each side; and, in a short time, la*