General Observations on Game. 668 certain species is also restricted to certain seasons. For example, the season for bustard-shooting is from December i to March i ; for grouse, or red grouse, from August 12 to December io ; heath-fowl, or black-game, from August 20 to December 20; partridges from September 1 to February 12 ; pheasants from October 1 to February 1 ; widgeons, wild ducks, wild geese, wild fowls, at any time, but between March 15 and August 1 ; hares may be killed at any time of the year, under certain restrictions defined by an act of parliament of the 10th of George III 1379. The Exercise or Diversion of pursuing Four-footed Beasts or Game is called hunting, which, to this day, is followed in the field and the forest, with gun and greyhound. Birds, on the contrary, are not hunted, but shot in the air, or taken with nets and other devices, which is called fowling; or they are pursued and taken by birds of prey, which is called hawking, a species of sport now fallen almost entirely into desuetude in England, although, in some parts, showing signs of being revived. In pursuing Four-footed Beasts, such as deer, boars and hares, properly termed hunting, mankind were, from the earliest ages, engaged. It was the rudest and the most obvious manner of acquiring human support before the agricultural arts had in any degree advanced. It is an employment, however, requiring both art and contrivance, as well as a certain fearlessness of character, combined with the power of considerable physicial endurance. Without these, success could not be very great; but, at best, the occupation is usually accompanied with rude and turbulent habits; and when combined with these, it constitutes what is termed the savage state of man. As culture advances, and as the soil proportionably becomes devoted to the plough or to the sustenance of the tamer or more domesticated animals, the range of the huntsman is proportionably limited : so that when a country has attained to a high state of cultivation, hunting becomes little else than an amusement of the opulent. In the case of fur-bearing animals, however, it is somewhat different ; for these continue to supply the wants of civilisation with one of its most valuable materials of commerce. 1380. The Themes which form the Minstrelsy of the Earliest A yes either relate to the spoils of the chase or the dangers of the battle-field. Even the sacred writings introduce us to Nimrod, the first mighty hunter before the Lord, and tells us that Ishmael, in the solitudes of Arabia, became a skilful bowman; and that David, when yet young, was not afraid to join in combat with the lion or the bear. The Greek mythology teems with hunting exploits. Hercules overthrows the Nemsean lion, the Erymanthean boar, and the hydra of Lerna ; Diana descends to the earth, and pursues the stag; whilst jEsculapius Nestor, Theseus, Ulysses and Achilles are all followers of the chase. Aristotle, sage as he was, advises young men to apply themselves early to it ; and Plato finds in it something divine. Horace exalts it as a preparative exercise for the path of glory, and several of the heroes of Homer are its ardent votaries. The Romans followed the hunting customs of the Greeks, and the ancient Britons were hunters before Julius Caesar invaded their shores. Although the Ancient Britons followed hunting, however, they did not confine themselves solely to its pursuit. They bred cattle and tilled the ground, and, to some extent, indicated the rudimentary state of a pastoral and agricultural life ; but, in every social change, the sports of the field maintained their place. After the expulsion of the Danes, and during the brief restoration of the Saxon monarchy,-these were still followed : even Edward the Confessor, who would join in no other secular amusements, took the greatest delight, says William of Malmesbury, “ to follow a pack of swift hounds in pursuit of game, and to cheer them with his voice.’’ Nor was Edward the only English sovereign who delighted in the pleasure of the