910 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c, 1941.—APPLE TRIFLE. (A Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—10 good-sized apples, the rind of £ a lemon, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, 4 pint of milk, £ pint of cream, 3 eggs, whipped cream. Mode.—Peel, core and cut the apples into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of water, the sugar and minced lemon-rind. Boil all together until quite tender, and pulp the apples through a sieve ; if they should not be quite sweet enough, add a little more sugar, and put them at the bottom of the dish to form a thick layer. Stir together the milk, cream and eggs, with a little sugar, over the fire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it to reach the boiling-point. When thick, take it off the fire; let it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. Whip some cream with sugar, lemon-peel, &c., the same as for other trifles; heap it high over the custard, and the dish is ready for table. It may be garnished, as fancy dictates, with strips of bright apple jelly, slices of citron, &c. Time.—From 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples; 10 minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for a moderate-sized trifle. Seasonable from July to March. 1942.—APRICOT CREAM. (Fr — Creme aux Abricots.) Ingredients.—12 to 16 ripe apricots, 4 lb. of sugar, 14 pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 oz. of isinglass or gelatine. Mode.—Divide the apricots, take out the stones, and boil them in a syrup made with a quarter of a lb. of sugar and a quarter of a pint of water, until they form a thin marmalade, which rub through a sieve. Boil the milk with the other quarter of a lb. of sugar, let it cool a little, then mix with it the yolks of eggs which have been previously well beaten ; put this mixture into a jug, place this jug in boiling water, and stir it one way over the fire until it thickens; but on no account let it boil. Strain through a sieve, add the isinglass, previously steeped in cold water, and then boiling, and keep stirring it till nearly cold; then mix the cream with the apricots ; stir well, put it into an oiled mould, and, if convenient, set it on ice ; at any rate, in a very cool place. It should turn out on the dish without any difficulty. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to boil the apricots. Average Cost, 3s. 6d.; with gelatine, 2s. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable in August, September and October. Note.—In winter-time,when fresh apricots are not obtainable, tinned ones may be substituted for them.