Stock for Jellies, 913 it out carefully on a dish, and garnish with preserves, bright jelly, or a compote of fruit. Time.—Altogether £ hour. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. 1947—BREAD-AND-BUTTER FRITTERS. (.Fr.—Beignets de Pain.) Ingredients.—Batter, 8 slices of bread-and-butter, 3 or 4 tablespoon- fuls of jam. Mode .—Make a batter, the same as for apple fritters, No. 1929; cut some slices of bread-and-butter, not very thick ; spread half of them with any jam that may be preferred, and cover with the other slices; slightly press them together, and cut them out in square, long or round pieces. Dip them in the batter, and fry in lard, butter or fat for about 10 minutes ; drain them before the fire on a piece of blotting-paper or cloth. Dish them, sprinkle over sifted sugar, and serve. This is a very good way of using up cut bread-and-butter. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1948.-A SPIC JELLY. (For High-class Cookery.) Mode.—Bone and blanch 8 calves’ feet, add to them 3 hens (without their fillets), 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal (minus bone), 6 lbs. of fillet of veal, 4 lbs. of leg of beef (boned). The meat must be tied and put into a stock-pot, with z\ gallons of water and a quarter of a lb. of salt. Boil up, skim, and when cool add 4 onions (a clove stuck in each), 4 large carrots, 4 leeks, and a bundle of herbs. Simmer till done; but the calves’ feet will still be not quite cooked. Strain through a cloth, boil up, skim, and simmer till the jelly looks quite clear. Clarify, when cold, as follows;—Beat up the fillets of the hens in a mortar, put them in a pan to stew with the whites of 8 eggs, a pint of French wine, and a little pepper and salt. Add the jelly to the fillets, and boil on a brisk fire, stirring all the time with a wire whisk. Do not touch it for 2 minutes, strain then, and repeat this process till the jelly is quite clear. Pour out and place on ice. 1949.—STOCK FOR JELLIES. Ingredients.—Gelatine or isinglass, quantity to be regulated accord* !ing to the amount of stock required.