807 Almond, Paste. into sweet and bitter, the produce of different varieties. Of the sweet there are two varieties, ■ distinguished in commerce by the names of Jordan and Valentia almonds. The former are im- ported from Malaga, and are longer, narrower, more pointed, and more highly esteemed than the latter, which are imported from Valentia. Bitter almonds are principally obtained from Morocco, and are exported from Magador. 1692. —ALMOND PASTE. (Fr.—Pains d’Amandes.) (For Sweet Dishes.) Ingredients.—I lb. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, 1 lb. of very finely sifted sugar, the whites of two eggs. Mode.—Blanch the almonds, and dry them thoroughly, put them into a mortar and pound them well, wetting them gradually with the whites of 2 eggs. When well pounded, put them into a small preserving-pan, add the sugar, and place the pan on a small but clear fire (a hot-plate is better); keep stirring until the paste is dry, then take it out of the pan, put it between two dishes, and, when cold, make it into any shape that fancy may dictate. Time.—I hour. Average Cost, is. 8d. for the above quantity. Sufficient for 3 small dishes of pastry. Seasonable at any time. Bitter Almonds.—The bitter almond is a variety of the common almond, and is injurious to animal life, on account of the great quantity of hydrocyanic acid it contains, and is consequently seldom used in domestic economy, unless it be to give flavour to confectionery; and even then it should be used with great caution. A single drop of the essential oil of bitter almonds is suffi- cient to destroy a bird, and four drops have caused the death of a middle-sized dog. 1693. —ALMOND PASTE. (Fr.—Pains d’Amandes.) (For Tarts.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of sweet almonds, f lb. of loaf sugar, gelatine flavouring. Mode.—Blanch the almonds by putting them into boiling water ; soak them for 4 hours in cold water and pound them well in a mortar, adding a few drops of water to take off the oiliness. When beaten to a paste, put in three quarters of a pound of well-crushed loaf sugar, and mix aN together. When quite fine and smooth, put it into a stewpan over a slow fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till it is white and dry. Put it again in the mortar, and mix with it a little melted and strained gelatine. Keep it covered. Flavour with what you like. Cover with a damp towel, or it will dry up. 1694.—BAKED ALMOND PUDDING. (Very Rich.) Ingredients.—J lb. of almonds, 4 bitter ones, 1 glass of sherry, 4 eggs, the rind and juice of £ lemon, 3 oz. of butter, 1 pint of cream, 2 table spoonfuls of sugar.