238 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. called Picholine—it should always be green, and very firm to the toueh. If olives are too salt, let them soak in cold water for an hour before serving them. When used for dessert, they are placed in a small glass or other dish of fresh water, with a small silver fork in the dish. The olives that come from the table should be placed in a small bottle, in water slightly salted. Take care that they are completely covered, to hinder them from darkening in colour. (For Olive and Olive Oil, see Salad-Dressing.) 746.—SAUCE OF OLIVES. (Fr.—Sauce aux Olives.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of French olives, r pint of thickened butter, No 677 ; salt, nutmeg. Mode.—Prepare the olives by cutting them and removing the stones. Simmer them in water till tender, then add a tablespoonful of lemon-juice to the thickened butter, put in the olives and serve. Caper sauce may be made in the same way. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 8d. Seasonable at any time. 747—FRENCH ONION SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Soubise.) Ingredients.—i pint of bechamel, No. 665; 1 bay-leaf, seasoning to taste of pounded mace and cayenne, 6 onions, a small piece of ham. Mode.—Peel the onions and cut them in halves; put them in a stew- pan, with just sufficient water to cover them, and add the bay-leaf, ham, cayenne and mace ; be careful to keep the lid closely shut, and simmer them until tender. Take them out and drain thoroughly; rub them through a tammy or sieve (an old one does for the purpose) with a wooden spoon, and put them to half a pint of bechamel; keep stirring over the fire until it boils, when serve. If it should require any more season- ing, add it to taste. Time.—i hour to boil the onions. Average Cost, 10d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Note.—Throughout France, the puree of white onions is called Soubise (after the Prince of that name, see 640), and the puree of red onions, Bretonne. Sou- bise, well made, thoroughly drained, and carefully rubbed through the tammy, is exceedingly good. A common onion sauce, carelessly mixed, is detestable. To prevent the film which is liable to form on the surface of the sauce, a little cold gravy of fowl or beef should be stirred in with it the moment before serving. 748.—WHITE ONION SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Soubise.) {For Boiled Rabbits, Roast Shoulder of Mutton, &c.) Ingredients.—9 large onions, or 12 middling-sized ones ; 1 pint of melted butter made with milk, No. 679 ; half a teaspoonful of salt, or rather more.