i486 Women Servants' Duties. BRUSH FOR BARE BOARDS. cloth arranged, and everything in order, she should lay the cloth for breakfast, and then shut the dining-room door. 3291. Morning Tf' orll.—The hall must now be swept, the mats shaken, the door-step cleaned, and any brass knockers or handles polished up with the leather. If the family breakfast very early, the tidying of the hall must then be deferred till after that meal. After cleaning the boots that are absolutely required, the servant should now wash her hands and face, put on a clean white apron, and be ready for her mistress when she comes downstairs. In families where there is much work to do before breakfast, the master of the house frequently has two pairs of boots i,v wear, so that they may be properly cleaned, when the servant has more time to do them, in the daytime. This arrangement is, perhaps, scarcely necessary in the summer-time, when there are no grates to clean every morning ; but in the dark days of winter it is only kind and thoughtful to lighten a general servant’s duties as much as possible. She will now carry the urn into the dining-room, where her mistress will make the tea or coffee, and sometimes will boil the eggs, to ensure them being done to her liking. In the meantime the servant cooks, if required, the bacon, kidneys, fish, &c.; if cold meat is to be served, she must always send it to table on a clean dish, and nicely garnished with tufts of parsley, if this is obtainable. After she has had her own breakfast, and whilst the family are finishing theirs, she should go upstairs into the bedrooms, open all the windows, strip the clothes off the beds, and leave them to air whilst she is clearing away the break- fast things. She should then take up the.crumbs in a dustpan from under the table, put the chairs in their places, and sweep up the hearth. 3292. Daily Work.—The breakfast things washed up, the kitchen should be tidied, so that it may be neat when her mistress comes in to give the orders for the day ; after receiving these orders, the servant should go upstairs again, with a jug of boiling water, the slop-pail, and two cloths. After emptying the slops, and scalding the vessels with the boiling water, and wiping them thoroughly dry, she should wipe the top of the wash-hand stands and arrange all .in order. She then proceeds to make the beds, in which occupation she is generally assisted by the mistress, or, if she has any daughters, by one of them. Before commencing to make the bed, the servant should put on a large bed-apron, kept for this purpose only, which should be made very wide, to button round the waist and meet behind, while it should be made as long as the dress. By adopting this plan, the blacks and dirt on servants’ dresses (which at all times it is impossible to help) will not rub off on to the bed-clothes, mattresses, and bed-furniture. When the beds are made, the rooms should be dusted, the stairs lightly swept down, hall furniture, closets, See., dusted. The lady of the house, when there is but one servant kept, frequently takes charge of the drawing-room herself, that is to say, dusting it: the servant sweeping, cleaning windows, looking-glasses, grates, and rough work of that sort. If there are many ornaments and knick-knacks about the room, it is certainly better for the mistress to dust these herself, as a maid-of-all-work's hands are not GENERAL SERVANT,