The Natural History of Fishes. 206 fish and the months when it is in season. Nothing can be of greater consequence to a cook than to have the fish good ; as if this important course in a dinner does not give satisfaction, it is rarely that the repast goes off well. 423. Keeping Fish.—When fish is cheap and plentiful, and a larger quan- tity is purchased than is immediately wanted, the overplus of such as will bear it should be potted, or pickled or salted, and hung up; or it may be fried, that it may serve for stewing the next day. Fresh-water fish having frequently a muddy smell and taste, should be soaked in strong salt and water, after it has been well cleaned. If of a sufficient size, it may be scalded in salt and water, and afterwards dried and dressed. Cod-fish, whiting and haddock, are none the worse for being a little salted, and kept a day ; and if the weathetf be not very hot, they will be good for two days. 424. Garnishing Fish requires great nicety. Plenty of parsley, horse- radish, lobster coral and lemon should be used. If fried parsley be used, it must be washed and picked, and thrown into fresh water. When the lard or dripping is hot enough, squeeze the parsley dry in a cloth, and throw it into the saucepan. It is sure to bubble a good deal, and, therefore, it is better to lift the pan from the fire. In a few seconds it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice, if there is no frying-basket. Well dressed, and with very good sauce, fish is more appreciated than almost any other dish. The liver and roe, in some instances, should be placed on the dish, in order that they may be distributed in the course of serving ; but to each recipe is appended the proper mode of serving and garnishing. In Brillat Savarin’s* clever and amusing volume, "The Physiology of Taste," he says that, towards the end of the eighteenth century, it was a most common thing for a well-arranged entertainment in Paris to commence with oysters, and that many guests were not contented without swallowing twelve dozen. Being anxious to know the weight of this advanced guard, he ascertained that a dozen oysters, fluid included, weighed tour ounces—thus, the twelve dozen would weigh about 3 lbs.; and there can be no doubt, that the same persons who made no worse a dinner on account of having partaken of the oysters, would have been completely satisfied if they had eaten the same weight of chicken or mutton. An anecdote, perfectly well authenticated, is narrated of a French gentleman (M. Laperte), residing at Versailles, who was extravagantly fond of oysters, declaring he never had enough. Savarin resolved to procure him the satisfac- tion, and gave him an invitation to dinner, which was duly accepted. The guest arrived, and his host kept company with him in swallowing the delicious bivalves up to the tenth dozen, when, exhausted, he gave up, and let M. Laperte go on alone. This gentleman managed to eat thirty-two dozen within an hour, and would doubtless have got through more, but the person who opened them is described as not being very skilful In the interim Savarin was idle, and at length, tired with his painful state of inaction, he said to Laperte, whilst the latter was in full career, “ Mon cher, you will not eat as many oysters to-d ry as you meant; let us dine." They dined, and the insatiable oyster-eater acted at the repast as if he had fasted for a week. * Brillat Savarin was a French lawyer and judge of corsiderable eminence and great talent, and wrote, under the above title, a book on gastronomy, full of instructive information, enlivened with a fund of pleasantly-told anecdote. FISH Kh.XTL.ii,