1276 Recipes for Frencn Cookery. Seasonable from April to August. Sufficient for 6 persons. pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg and 2 wineglassfuls of light French wine (Sauterne, Chablis, &c.). Mode.—Clean the fish and skin the backs. Put them, back downwards, in a frying-pan large enough to contain them side by side—or they may be done separately—with the butter and all the other ingredients. Place on the fire, adding little bits of butter and flour made into a paste. Cover up and allow to simmer. Turn the fish and sprinkle over with bread-crumbs. Then bring the sauce to a proper consistency and cover again. When the fish are quite ready, slip on to a dish and pour the gravy all round. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2902.—FRICANDEAU OF SALMON. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of middle cut of salmon, fine lardoons, 2 onions and 2 carrots cut fine, 2 bay leaves, a little thyme, whole pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, 1 pint of stock. Mode.—Scale, thoroughly wash and dry the fish. Lard it finely and put it into a stewpan with all the ingredients. Allow it to simmer very gently for 2 hours. Strain the sauce, skim off the fat, reduce to a glaze and glaze the fricandeau. Serve on a puree of either cucumber, asparagus or peas, pouring round it the glaze reconverted into a sauce by the addition of a little stock. Time.—hours. Average Cost, 5s. 2903.—STUFFED TROUT FRIED. Ingredients.—1 fine trout, a little bread-crumb and butter, 2 oz. of truffles, 6 button mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of minced herbs (thyme, parsley, chevril). For the court-bouillon, 1 quart of water, 1 pint of white wine vinegar, 1 large carrot, onion and parsnip, 1 small head of celery, a little thyme, parsley, chevril and salt, 2 bay leaves and 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Reduce the ingredients for the court-bouillon quickly over a strong fire—the vegetables being sliced up—strain, cool and preserve for cooking fish, replacing the liquid consumed each time by some good white wine. Stuff the trout with the bread-crumb, truffles, mushrooms, butter and herbs made into a forcemeat—the fish having been washed and dried ■—tie up the head, and simmer in the court-bouillon for a quarter of an hour. FRICANDe.AU OF SALMON.