Recipes for the Coachman. ] RECIPES FOR THE COACHMAN AND GROOM. 3335 -STABLE FURNITURE. The furniture of a stable, with coach-house, consists of coach-mops, jacks for raising the wheels, horse-brushes, spoke-brushes, water-brushes, crest aud bit-brushes, dandy-brushes, currycombs, birch and heath-brooms, tiimming-combs, scissors and pickers, oil-cans and brushes, harness-brushes of three sorts, leathers, sponges for horse and carriage, stable-forks, dung- baskets or wheel-barrow, corn-sieves and measures, horse-cloths and stable-pails, horn or glass lanterns. Over the stables there should be accommodation for the coachman or groom to sleep. Accidents some- times occur, and he should be at hand to interfere. 3336—THE HARNESS-ROOM. A harness-room is indispensable to every stable. It should be dry and airy, and furnished with a fire-place and boiler, both for the protection of the harness and to prepare mashes for the horses when required. The partition-wall should be boarded, and around the walls hooks and pegs should be placed, for the several pieces of harness, at such a height as to prevent their touching the ground; and every part of the harness should have its peg or hook—one for the halters, another for the reins, and others foi snaffles and other bits, and metal-work; and either a wooden horse or saddletrees for the saddles and pads. All these parts should be dry, clean and shining. This is only to be done by careful cleaning and polishing, and the use of several requisite pastes. The metallic parts, when white, should be cleaned with a soft brush and plate- powder ; the copper and brass parts burnished with rottenstone-powder and oil—steel with emery-powder: both made into a paste with a litth oil. 3337*—HARNESS POLISH. An excellent paste for polishing harness and the leather work oi carriages, is made by melting 8 lbs. of yellow wax, stirring it till com- pletely dissolved. Into this pour 1 lb. of litharge of the shops, which has been pounded up with water, and dried aud sifted through a sieve, leaving the two, when mixed, to simmer on the fire, stirring them continually tiJ