1600 The Doctor. magnesia will act as a mild purgative in the case of an adult. It is useful in dyspepsia. 3610. Spirit of Sal Volatile.—This is useful in fainting, hysteria, flatulent colic and after anyone has been bitten by a venomous animal. Dose.— A teaspoonful in water for an adult, which may be repeated in two or three hours. 3011. Steel Drops.—This is a useful preparation of iron, and may be given with advantage in cases of debility where there is anaemia or poverty of blood. Ten to fifteen drops may be given to an adult three times a day in water. It should be taken through a glass tube. In cases of erysipelas it has to be given in larger doses ; twenty drops in a teaspoonful of glycerine mixed with water may be taken every three hours. 3612. Street Spirit of Nitre.—This is useful in cases of fever, and acts upon the kidneys as well. It should be given in doses of five to ten drops, largely diluted with water, every three hours. COMMON COMPLAINTS AND WHAT MEDICINES ARE USUALLY TAKEN FOR THEIR CURE. 3613. Acidity.— Give equal parts of lime water and milk. Ten to twenty grains of magnesia may be given in a little milk three times a day. The follow- ing mixture is useful in this affection: bicarbonate of soda, three drachms; subnitrate of bismuth, two drachms ; water, eight ounces ; shake the bottle and take a tablespoonful three times a day. 3614. Ague.—Give four or five grains of the sulphate of quinine every four hours during the interval of the fit. 3615. Ancemia.—For this complaint Bland’s pills will be found most useful. They should be taken one or two three times a day after food. Steel drops may be given in doses of ten to fifteen drops after each meal. 3616. Asthma.—Sometimes the smoking of a pipe of tobacco will give relief. Joy’scigars, nitre-paper and ozone paper fumes are also useful. 3617. Bed-sores.—Dust the sores with iodoform and then apply lint soaked in glycerine. 3618. Bites of Insects.—Apply ammonia water to the part. 3619. Boils.—Brush tincture or liniment of belladonna over them before they are broken, to cause them to abort; this may be done night and morning. If very painful, and not likely to be thus got rid of, poultice with linseed meal. 3620. Bright’s Disease.—Give occasional hot baths and purgatives. Twenty grains of compound jalap powder may be given for this purpose from time to time. 3621. Bronchitis.—Apply a mustard leaf or poultice to the chest and give five or ten drops of ipecacuanha wine, thirty drops of syrup of squills and a tea- spoonful of glycerine, mixed together, every four hours. If the bronchitis is chronic, give two to five drops of pure terebene on a lump of sugar to an adult twice or three times a day.