28o Recipes for Cooking Fish. Sufficient for 6 persons. 600.-VOL AU VENT OF OYSTERS. (Fr.—Vol au Vent aux Huitres.) Ingredients.—3 doz. oysters, 1 lb. of fresh butter, J pint of thick cream, 1 egg, 1 lb. of flour, lemons, a little cayenne, nutmeg and mace. Mode.—Make a puff paste with f lb. each of butter and flour, the yolk of an egg and the strained juice of one lemon, in the following way :— Put the flour in a bowl, beat the egg, stir to it ^ pint of cold water, and the lemon juice strained, pour the whole into the flour and mix as lightly as possible, lay the paste on the slab or board, make a hole in the centre and put in the butter, which should have been squeezed in a cloth. Let it stand in a cool place for an hour or more, then roll it out four times, leaving it the last time inches thick. Cut it to the required size with a vol au vent cutter; make a circular incision with a penknife about half inch deep, and the same from the outside of the crust, and bake in a tin for three quarters of an hour. The oven should be equal in heat; but if it is not so, the vol au vent must be turned so, that it may rise equally. Beard the oysters, and put the beards and the liquor into a stewpan with a little mace, nutmeg, a few grains of cayenne, the thin rind of a lemon and half the juice. Let this boil, then add 3 oz. of butter and a large spoonful of flour kneaded together, boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a pint, strain, add the oysters and simmer for 5 or 6 minutes, and lastly stir in the cream. When the case is baked, carefully take-out all the centre and fill with the oysters. Serve on a napkin on a flat silver dish. Average Cost, 5s. 6d. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 6 persons. 601.—CURRIED PRAWNS. (Fr.—Crevettes a I’lndienne.) Ingredients.—2 dozen prawns, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, a sour apple or any other fruit which is acid, 1 onion, a small cocoanut, the juice of half a lemon, pint of stock. Mode.—Put the butter into a saucepan, and when it boils add the onion cut in very thin slices, fry it, stir in the curry powder and see that the mixture is smooth before adding the stock, which should be hot when put in. Next chop the apple and grate a large tablespoonful of the cocoanut, add these to the gravy and what salt is needed and let all simmer for about 15 minutes. Lastly, add the prawns, which have been picked, a wineglassful of cocoanut milk, and the lemon juice. Let this simmer till the fish is quite hot; serve with rice as other curries. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable all the year round,