546 Recipes for Cooking Pork. 1197-for curing hams. (Mons. Ude's Recipe.) Ingredients.—For 2 hams, weighing about 16 or 18 lbs. each, aiiow 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lb. of common salt, 2 oz. of saltpetre, 1 quart of good vinegar. Mode.—As soon as the pig is cold enough to be cut up, take the two hams and rub them well with common salt, and leave them in a large pan for three days. When the salt has drawn out all the blood, drain the hams and throw the brine away. Mix sugar, salt and saltpetre together in the above proportion, rub the hams well with these, and put them into a vessel large enough to hold them, always keeping the salt over them. Let them remain for three days, then pour over them a quart of good vinegar. Turn them in the brine every day for a month, then drain them well, and rub them with bran. Have them smoked over a wood fire, and be particular that the hams are hung as high up as possible from the fire; otherwise the fat will melt, and they will become dry and hard. Time.—To be pickled, 1 month; to be smoked, 1 month. Sufficient for two hams of 18 lbs. each. Seasonable from October to March. The Price of a Sow In Africa.—In one of the native states of Africa, a pig one day stole a piece of food from a child as it was in the act of conveying the morsel to its mouth ; upon which the robbed child cried so loud that the mother rushed out of her hovel to ascertain the cause; and seeing the purloining pig make off munching his booty, the woman in her heat struck the grunter so smart a blow that the surly rascal took it into his head to go home very much indisposed, and, after a certain time, resolved to die—a resolution that he accordingly put into practice; upon which the owner instituted judicial proceedings before the Star Chamber court of his tribe against the husband and family of the woman whose rash act had led to such results ; and as the pig happened to be a sow, in the very flower of her age, the prospective lost to the owner in unnumbered tens of pigs, with the expenses attending so high a tribunal, swelled the damages and costs to such a sum that it was found impossible to pay them; and as, in the barbarous justice existing among these rude people, every member of a family is equally liable as the individual who committed the wrong, the father, mother, children, relatives—an entire com- munity, to the number of thirty-two souls, were sold as slaves, and afearful sum of human misery perpetrated, to pay the value of a thieving old sow. 1198.—TO SALT TWO HAMS, about 12 or 15 lbs. each. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of treacle, £ lb. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 2 lbs. of common salt. Mode.—Two days before they are put into pickle, rub the hams well with salt, to draw away all slime and blood. Throw what comes from them away, and rub them with treacle, salpetre and salt. Lay them in a deep pan, and let them remain one day ; boil the above proportion of treacle, saltpetre, bay-salt and common salt for a quarter of an hour, and pour this pickle boiling hot over the hams. There should be sufficient of it to cover them. For a day or two rub them well with it; afterwards they will only require turning. They ought to remain in this pickle for three weeks or a month, and then be sen to be smoked, which will take