1587 Gastric Ulcer. must, however, be given in doses of from fifteen to twenty drops every three or four hours, taken with the same quantity of glycerine in water. Larger doses are frequently administered, but it is better not to give these unless ordered by a medical man. During convalescence, tonics, containing iron and quinine, may be given, and for some time any exposure to cold winds, &c., should be avoided. 3558. Flatulence.—Flatulence, or the undue collection of gas or air in the stomach or bowels, may be brought about in various ways. It may be swallowed, formed from the food, or apparently be secreted from the walls of the stomach and bowels. It is a common and very unpleasant symptom of indigestion. In a great number of instances flatulence is due to improper food, or the abuse of certain articles of food, especially tea. Symptoms.—There may be a feeling of faintness, giddiness or choking, accom- panied by trouble ; some belching. Treatment.—Such turns of flatulence are best treated by dieting, mainly solid food with stale bread, but no vegetables, tea, beer or pastry. Flatulence may often be only the symptom of dyspepsia, and it is often capable of relief by a slight stimulant, as aromatic spirits of ammonia. Spirituous liquors should be avoided. The following may be used with benefit:—Three drachms of bicar- bonate of potash, or the same of bicarbonate of soda, an ounce of the concen- trated infusion of Calumba, and sufficient water added to make eight ounces. A tablespoonful of this mixture to be taken three times a day in water. From one to two drachms of tincture of nux vomica, with an ounce of the concentrated influsion of Calumba, and water as before added to make eight ounces, is another useful combination. This mixture should be taken in tablespoonful doses as the other. From two to five drops of pure terebene, taken on sugar, and repeated two or three times a day, is also a most useful remedy in cases of flatulence. 3559. Gastric Ulcer.—This is a disease most frequently met with in young women of the servant class. Symptoms.—Pain, vomiting of coffee-ground material; the colour of the vomited matter being due to the presence of blood. Treatment.—When there is bleeding, give ice ; this is also most useful in check- ing vomiting. To relieve the pain, opium in one or other of its forms may be given. Small doses of morphia with bismuth may be given thus :—Five or ten minims of the solution of the muriate of morphia wilh ten or fifteen grains of subnitrate of bismuth may be given two or three times a day. The best food is milk. If the patient is very sick and pained, it may be necessary at first to withold food from being given by the mouth, in which case it ought to be administered in the form of enemata. The writer has found a teaspoonful of Carlsbad salts given in water three times a day useful in this disease. 3560. Haemorrhoids or Files.—These are swellings situated in the region of the anus. They are liable to irritation and inflammation, in conse- quence of which they give rise to a good deal of suffering. External piles consist in a collection of rounded hard tumours, and of prominent ridges of skin situated just without the margin of the anus. When these become irritated and inflamed they give rise to very acute pain, with throbbing and a sense of great heat, and to a constant desire to go to stool. This affection originates in distension of the veins about the anus, in consequence of obstruction to the circulation. They are generally met with in those who follow sedentary employments, and those who, in consequence of highly-seasoned foods and indulgence in alcoholic drinkr.j suffer from congestion of the liver. The presence within the anus of large, rounded and soft tumours covered by red mucous membrane (internal piles) is attended with more serious symptoms. These are very apt to weaken by giving rise to frequent bleedings.