942 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Mode.—Boil half a pound of loaf sugar with half a pint of water, until there is no scum left (which must be carefully removed as fast as it rises), and carefully peel the oranges; divide them into thin slices, without break- ing the thin skin, and put these pieces of orange into the syrup, where let them remain for about 5 minutes; then take them out, and use the syrup for the jelly, which should be made by the recipe, No. 2013. When the oranges are well drained, and the jelly is nearly cold, pour a little of the latter into the bottom of the mould ; then lay in a few pieces of orange; over these pour a little jelly, and when this is set, place another layer ot oranges, proceeding in this manner until the mould is full. Put it in ice, or in a cool place, and before turning it out, wrap a cloth round the mould for a minute or two which has been wrung out in boiling water. Time.—5 minutes to simmer the oranges. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient, with the slices of oranges, to fill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May. 2015.—TO MAKE A PLAIN OMELET. (Fr.—Omelette.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, I saltspoonful of salt, £ saltspoonful of pepper, £ lb. of butter. Mode.—Break the eggs into a basin, omitting the wnites of 3, and beat them up with the salt and pepper until extremely light; then add 2 oz. of the butter broken into small pieces, and stir this into the mixture. Put the other 2 oz. of butter into a frying-pan, make it quite hot, and, as soon as it begins to bubble, whisk the eggs, &c., very briskly for a minute or two, and pour them into the pan : stir the omelet OMELET. ' . r with a spoon one way until the mixture thickens and.becomes firm, and when the whole is set, fold the edges over, so that the omelet assumes an oval form : and when it is nicely brown on one side, and quite firm, it is done. To take off the rawness on the upper side, hold the pan before the fire for a minute or two and brown it with a salamander or hot shovel. Serve very expeditiously on a very hot dish, and never cook it until it is just wanted. The flavour of this omelet may be very much enhanced by adding minced parsley, minced onions or shalot, or grated cheese, allowing one teaspoonful of the former, and half the quantity of the latter, to the above proportion of eggs. Shrimps or oysters may also be added; the latter should be scalded in their liquor, and then bearded and cut into small pieces. In making an omelet, be particularly careful that it is not too thin, and, to avoid this, do not make it in too large a frying-pan, as the mixture would then