Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. 88 keeping it still in the machine for a short time longer, still working the piston up and down ; it is then turned out, beautifully iced and moulded. The same ice and salt which freezes the dessert ices will afterwards freeze a block of pure water ice, or may be used to cool wine. The “ Piston ” Freezing machine is made in oak, and is supplied in three sizes, Nos. i, 2 and 3 to freeze and mould 1, 2 and 3 pints respectively. The No. 1 " piston ” machine may be used with chemical freezing powders only ; this will be found extremely convenient for families in the country who are unable to obtain the rough ice. This machine is made, single at £2 10s. ; double at £4 105. This, as it has been said, will freeze and mould 1 pint. No. 2 costs £3 55., single, and £5 10s., double ; and No. 3, £3 15s., single, and £6 10s., double. These are to be used with ice and salt only. The freezing powder is supplied at 34s. per cwt., or in boxes at 115., 225. and 405. each. The double machine is shown in page 85. 183. Ash’s Patent Filtering Refrigerator.—This is a great im- provement on the ordinary refrigerator. The block of Wenham Lake ice is placed under a preserver, remaining protected in its own atmosphere, and there- fore lasting much longer than in an ordinary refrigerator. The water, as it melts, is drained off and passes direct through a charcoal filter, where it is kept nearly as cold as the ice itself, fresh and ready for drinking ; and the ice, although not entirely separated from the edibles, cannot become contaminated by any smell arising from them, in consequence of the cold fresh air maintained by the melting ice at 320 Fahrenheit under the preserver having no affinity for a higher temperature ; thus, by a natural law, the tainted atmosphere is effectually pre- vented from communicating with the ice. The housekeeper has, therefore, only to place butter, milk, &c., on the lowest trays of the refrigerator, and she can use the upper tray for cheese, fish, or any strong-smelling edibles with perfect safety. Ventilators are placed below the lid of this excellent refi igerator. The price varies with the size, from £& 105. to /15 io5. The ordi- nary refrigerator can be fitted with these improvements at small cost. The Patent “ Pis- ton ” Freezing Machines and the “Filtering” Refrigerator can be obtained only of the inventor, of whom block - ice and freezing powders can also be procured. 184. Self-Feeding Cabi- net Refrigerator or Ice Safe.—This ingenious contri- vance—the last new invention of Mr. Ash is really far more use- ful and economical than the former ice chests. It is con- structed so strictly in accordance Ash’s Self-Feeding Caeinet Refrigerator. with the laws of refrigeration that the ice is made by its own gravitation to form continuous contact with the whole surface of the well, the ice water dripping from which flows under the entire metallic bottom previous to passing away, by which means additional cold is gained without deteriorating the ice. Moreover, a novel system of ventilation is introduced by which the atmosphere of the safe is rendered perfectly dry and free from dust and germinating animalcula, by being made to pass through