1579 Lotions and Poultices. DISEASES AND THEIR REMEDIES. 3543. Fomentations.—Sometimes these are medicated and rendered more soothing by the addition of opiates, as in the well-known decoction of chamomile flowers and poppy heads, but the principal object for which they are employed is to convey warmth to a part. The best application of this kind is made by wringing flannel—by means of two sticks turned in opposite directions —out of boiling water, and then, shaking it up, apply it lightly to the part. In this way the heat may be retained for a considerable time. In order to do this thoroughly, two pieces of flannel should be made use of, each of the pieces being about three yards long, and having the ends sewn together so as to admit of the boiling water being wrung out of them. One of these should always be getting ready while the other is being applied. The coarser the flannel the more efficiently does it act; owing to its diminished power of conducting heat, warmth is longer retained. 3544. Lotions : Lotion of Vinegar.—One part of vinegar to three of water is a commonly-used lotion for sponging. Equal parts of vinegar and water may be usefully employed for bruises. Evaporating Lotion.—Sal ammoniac, half an ounce; vinegar, five ounces ; rectified spirit, five ounces; water, a pint. Mix together. A useful applica- tion in sprains, bruises and to the head in inflammation of the membranes of the brain. Rags wet with the lotion should be kept constantly applied. Arnica Lotion.—Tincture of arnica, in the proportion of a teaspoonful to two ounces of water, is a useful application in sprains and contusions. Anodyne Lotion.—Mix an ounce of soap liniment, an ounce of laudanum and eight ounces of water together. This forms a useful soothing application to an inflamed and painful part, but care must be taken to see that the skin is not broken. Another.—Take two drachms of sugar of lead, an ounce of laudanum, and eight ounces of water ; mix them together and apply to the pained part. Stimulating Lotion.—An ounce of compound camphor liniment, mixed with an ounce of soap liniment, may be rubbed upon the chest with the hand in cases of chest cold, or applied on a flannel round the throat in quinsy. 3545. Poultices.—There are few applications more constantly in demand in sickness than poultices, and yet few people make them well. Poultices, when made well, should be sufficiently thick to retain their humidity, but not too thick, as they may then press injuriously upon the part to which they are applied. They should be of uniform consistence throughout, and ought to be applied at a proper temperature. This last can generally be ascertained by applying the poultice to the back of the hand or to the face before putting it to the part. Linseed Meal Poultices.—That which is of most frequent use is a poultice of linseed meal. It should be boiled till it is of the consistence of a thick pap, when it will retain heat and moisture longer Instead of using water alone a decoction of mallows may be employed, by which the emollient properties will be increased. The surface may be smeared with olive oil or lard. A piece of gauze may be applied over the surface of the poultice, if it is considered necessary to interpose anything between it and the skin. Besides poultices made from linseed meal, there are others in frequent use, such as those made from bread and water, oatmeal, arrowroot, bran ; and others, which are much less often employed, made from carrots, potatoes, onions, &c.