3°8 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. eastern islands of Borneo, Sumatra, and Java, and others in the same latitude. It was formerly confined to these countries, but it has now been introduced to Cay- enne. It is generallyemployed as a condiment; but it should never be forgotten that, even in small quantities, it produces detrimental effects on inflammatory constitutions. Dr. Paris, in his work on Diet, says : “Foreign spices were not intended by Nature for the inhabi- tants of temperate climes; they are heating, and highly stimulant. I am, however, not anxious to give more weight to this objection than it deserves. Man is no longer the child of Nature, nor the passive inhabitant of any particular region. He ranges over every part of the globe, and elicits nourishment from the productions of every climate. Nature is very kind in favouring the growth of those pro- ductions which are most likely to answer our local wants. Those climates, for instance, which engender endemic diseases, are, in general, congenial to the growth of plants that operate as antidotes to them. But if we go to the East for tea, there is no reason why we should not go to the West for sugar. The dyspeptic invalid, however, should be cautious in their use; they may afford temporary benefit, at the expense of permanent mischief. It has been well said, that the best quality of spices is to stimulate the appetite, and their worst to destroy, by insensible degrees, the tone of the stomach. The intrinsic goodness of meats should always be suspected when they require spicy seasonings to compensate for their natural want of sapidity.’’ The quality of pepper is known by rubbing it between the hands ; that which with- stands this operation is good, that which is reduced to powder by it is bad. The quantity of pepper imported into Europe is very great. BLACK PEPPER. 667.—BENTON SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Raifort.) (To Serve with Hot or Cold Roast Beef.) Ingredients.— 1 tablespoonful of scraped horseradish, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.—Grate or scrape the horseradish very fine, and mix it with the other ingredients, which must all be well blended together; serve in a tureen. With cold meat this sauce is a very good substitute for pickles. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2d. 668.—BLONDE SAUCE. (For any kind of Fish.) Ingredients.—5 pint melted butter, No. 679 ; 3 tablespoonfuls stock, 1 onion, 2 mushrooms, 1 lemon, parsley, 1 glass of sherry, yolks of three eggs. Mode.—Slice the onion finely, chop the mushrooms and parsley, and put them into a stewpan with the melted butter, stock and sherry, the rind and juice of the lemon. Simmer slowly for half an hour, then whisk the yolks of 3 eggs well, add to the sauce, and stir over the fire for six minutes. Strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve in a tureen. Time.—36 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 669.—BORDELAISE SAUCE. Ingredients.— 1 pint Spanish sauce, 2 gills sauterne, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful of chopped shalots, mignonette pepper.