Potted Herrings. 233 486.—POTTED HERRINGS. Ingredients.—1 dozen large herrings, 1 pint white vinegar, pepper, salt, 2 bay-leaves. Mode.—Remove the heads and tails from the herrings, wash, clean, and dry them, and sprinkle with salt and pepper inside and out. Put them in an earthenware dish, lay the roes beside them and cover them with good white vinegar. Bake for 2 hours in a moderate oven, then take out the bones, pound in a mortar, press into pots, and pour clarified butter on the top. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 1 d. each. Seasonable from July to March. 487. —KEGEREE. * (Fr.—Poisson a la Moutarde.) Ingredients.—Any cold fish, teacupful of boiled rice, r oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 2 soft-boiled eggs, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Pick the fish carefully from the bones, mix with the other ingredients, and serve very hot. The quantities may be varied according to the amount of fish used. Time.—£ hour after the rice is boiled. Average Cost, 5d., exclusive of the fish. Seasonable at any time. 488. -TO BOIL LOBSTERS. (Fn-Homards.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Buy the lobsters alive, and choose those that are heavy and full of motion, which is an indication of their freshness. When the shell is encrusted, it is a sign they are old : medium-sized lobsters are the best. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion ; [ put in the lobster, and keep it boiling quickly from 20 minutes to three quarters of an hour, according to its size, and do not forget to skim well. If it boils too long, the meat becomes thready, and if not done enough, the spawn is not red ; this must be obviated by great attention. Rub the shell over with a little butter or sweet oil, which wipe off again. Time.—Small lobster, 20 minutes to i hour ; large ditto, to hour. Average Cost, medium size, is. to 3s. 6d. Seasonable all the year, but best from March to October. To Choose Lobsters.—This shell-fish, if it has been cooked alive, as it o^ght to have been, will have a stiffness in the tail, which, if gently raised, will return with a spring. Care, however, must be taken in thus proving it, for if the tail is palled straight out, it will not return; when the fish might be pronounced inferior, which, in reality, may not be the case. In order to be good, lobsters should be weighty for their bulk ; if light, they will be watery : and (those of the