Gooseberry Jam. 999 the top, keeping them in a dry, cool place till wanted. When wanted for cooking purposes, pour some of the water away, and add as much sugar as would be necessary for fresh fruit, which they closely resemble in fla- vour and appearance. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 4d. per quart. Seasonable in May and June. 2159—COMPOTE OF GOOSEBERRIES. Ingredients.—Syrup made by recipe No. 2115; to a pint of syrup allow nearly a quart of gooseberries. Mode.—Top and tail the gooseberries, which should not be very ripe, and pour over them some boiling water; then take them out, and plunge them into cold water, with which has been mixed a tablespoonful of vine- gar, which will assist to keep the fruit a good colour. Make a pint of syrup by recipe No. 2115, and when it boils, drain the gooseberries and put them in; simmer them gently until the fruit is nicely pulped and tender, without being broken; then dish the gooseberries on a glass dish, boil the syrup for two or three minutes, pour over the gooseberries, and serve cold. Time.—About 5 minutes to boil the gooseberries in the syrup ; 3 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient.—A quart of gooseberries for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in J une. 2160-GOOSEBERRY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow \ lb. of loaf sugar; currant- juice. Mode.—Select red, hairy gooseberries; have them gathered in dry weather, when quite ripe, without being too soft. Weigh them; with a pair of scissors cut off the tops and tails, and to every 6 lbs. of fruit have ready half a pint of currant-juice, drawn as for jelly. Put the goose- berries and currant-juice into a preserving-pan ; let them boil tolerably quick, keeping them well stirred ; when they begin to break, add to them the sugar, and keep simmering until the jam becomes firm, carefully skimming and stirring it, that it does not burn at the bottom. It should be boiled rather a long time, or it will not keep. Put it into pots (not too large); let it get perfectly cold ; then cover the pots down with oiled and egged papers, as directed for red currant jelly, No. 2143. Time.—About 1 hour to boil the gooseberries in the currant-juice; from i to i hour with the sugar. Average Cost, per lb. pot from 6d. to 8d. Sufficient.—Allow i-J pint of fruit for a lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in June or July.