1565 Baths and Bathing. wCaUSe °f. thls unusual mortality in a water-supply, contaminated by wash- ings or Makings from cess-pits or other receptacles for the evacuations of the Dowels of more or less diseased human beings. One °f the simplest and cheapest pieces of apparatus for purifying water is Dr Jowernoi T “• *hus, PrePared- '‘Get a common8earthenware flower-pot, and cover the hole with a bit of zinc wire gauze, or of clean-washed flannel, which requires changing from time to time ; thin put into the poTlboS three inches of gravel and above that the same depth of white sand washed very clean. Four inches of animal charcoal (covered with a thin stratum of coarse gravel, or with a piece of slate to keep it in place) constitute the last layer ■ and the water should be poured in at the top, and be received from the hole aUhe bottom into a large glass bottle. The charcoal will, from time to time, become cWd ^ ?,us thfn b,e cleaned by heating over the fire in a shovel. The sand or gravel should also be cleaned or renewed from time to time. ® A wise precaution while travelling in unhealthy districts or during the pre- valence of an epidemic, is to drink none but boiled rain-water To be effectual the boding should be continued briskly for half an hour or longer ’ Make it a rule neither to sleep nor eat in a house where thl drains are not in perfect order Above all, reject stationary washstands in bed-rooms Ir bath- rooms and other “modern conveniences” adjoining sleeping or livLg rooms Such modern conveniences are, in reality, conveniences for the ready entrance of typho'd fever, diphtheria, and other dangerous diseases, into your dLllings and all the ordinary forms of “ traps and ventilators, no matter how well they are a^assssJSiiS.,o bave proved » 3523. Baths and Bathing .—The employment of baths goes back to the mghest antiquity, and was indulged in almost to excess by the Greeks and Komans. So important are baths in warm countries, that the Jewish and uriental religions enjoin frequent ablutions as a necessary part of the ceremonials 0l ;£eir creeds, thus no doubt largely contributing to the health and well-being ot their devout disciples. In order to understand the value of bathing, we must glance briefly at the anatomy and physiology of the skin. In the first place we have on the entire outer surface of the body, a layer of membrane, like thin leather, called the epidermis; this stratum is not supplied with nerves, is therefore insensible, and constitutes the portion which rises up when the hands are blistered by rowing tor example, or when a fly blister is applied. Just beneath the epidermis, lies the true skin, or corium as it is called, a tough, strong membrane, richly supplied with blood vessels and nerves. Hence it bleeds and feels pain at the slightest cut or puncture, since even the finest needle cannot be thrust into it without wounding some little artery or vein, and some tiny raiment of nerve. Under the true skin again lies the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which generally contains a good deal of fat. The most important constituents of the skin to our present enquiry, however, are : 1st., the sweat glands; 2nd., the oil glands; and 3rd., the hair and nails! usually spoken of as appendages to the skin. The sweat glands are twisted and coiled-up tubes, occupying the true skin and the layer of tissue beneath. They open upon the outside of the epidermis by an immense number of minute openings called pores, almost invisible to the naked eye. When we are at rest, the flow of perspiration, though constant, is seldom so tree that it does not evaporate almost as rapidly as it exudes, so that the skin is only kept pleasantly moist; but during exercise, especially in warm weather, the cutaneous surface becomes covered with drops of fluid. When the pores of the skin are partly choked up, so that they cannot do their