Children's Diseases. 1609 twitching of the muscles has passed away. Another very useful item of treatment is a warm bath or a pack. A sheet should be wrung out of hot water and. wrapped round the child from the neck downwards, and over this one or two blankets. The child should remain in this for an hour, after which it may be taken out and dried with warm towels. Or the child may be immersed in a warm bath up to the neck, or put in a tub or hip-bath with as much water as can be got into it, so as to cover as much of the body as possible. It should remain in this for about fifteen minutes, during which cold cloths may be applied to the head. 3656. Croup.—Croup is an inflammatory disease of the larynx, or upper part of the windpipe, and occurs in children, being very common between two and five years of age. Symptoms.—It is attended by very noisy inspiration on account of the narrowed condition of the glottis preventing the free entrance of air into the lungs. The child feels as if it were going to be choked, and it makes violent efforts with the muscles of the chest, so as to increase the supply of air within. Croup is a disease in which no delay should take place in treatment, as imminent danger may ensue from suffocation. Treatment.—Give the child a warm bath if possible, and wring sponges out of hot water, and apply them 'constantly to the throat. Give a teaspoonful of ipecacuanha wine every fifteen minutes, with drinks of tepid water in between till the child vomits. After it has been made sick, or if the symptoms appear so mild that an emetic is not given, the following mixture will be found of use Ipecacuanha wine, one drachm ; iodide of potassium, one drachm ; syrup of orange peel, an ounce ; water to make four ounces ; a teavpoonful to be given every three hours to a child from two to five years old. It is not necessary to say that medical aid should be sought at once. After an attack, care should be taken not to expose the child to draughts; flannel should be worn next to the skin, and a comforter wrapped round the throat. 3657. Diarrhoea.—The causes of diarrhoea in children being very varied, it is necessary, as far as possible, to determine what it is in each case ; thus, for instance, teething is a very frequent cause when it is difficult and accompanied by a good deal of irritation. When the tooth is cut, the irritation ceases, and the diarrhoea passes away. Again, cold may give rise to diarrhoea, from the impression made upon the nerves of the skin. This is frequently seen in children who toss the bed-clothes off during sleep. Fright may also give rise to diarrhoea, and of course, the eatiDg of indigestible articles of food will do the same. A frequent cause of diarrhoea in infants is an overloaded condition of the stomach, or the giving of unsuitable articles of diet. Treatment.—Diarrhoea in children ought never to be neglected, as, if allowed to run on from day to day, it weakens the child and may pass into inflamma- tion of the bowels, a much more serious disorder. If the diet appear to be at fault, it must be corrected. Suppose, for instance, that the child, previous to the cutting of the teeth, has been given solid food, the probability is that it will disagree, and set up irritation in the bowels, which will cause diarrhoea. In such a case nothing but milk should be given for food, and a little lime water may be added to it with advantage. If the diarrhoea has continued for any length of time it is necessary to check it at once. For this purpose the compound powder of chalk and opium may be given in two-grain doses every three hours to an infant one year old, or a little chalk mixture may be given—half to one teaspoonful every four hours to a child two or three years old. This may be combined with a little opium as follows :—Laudanum, four drops; tincture ot catechu, two drachms; chalk mixture to make two ounces. A teaspoonful to be given every four hours, 1 <3