127} General Observations on French Cookery. No sugar is added, but the process of long boiling is sufficient to make it keep for a whole year. 2896. Strops or fruit syrups and eau sucree are a great feature in France. Raspberries, strawberries, currants, apples, apricots, every sort of fruit is utilised, as well as the sweet almond. These syrups are as frequently used for sauces as for drinks, mixed with water, and grateful, indeed, are vhese cooling beverages in the baking days of a French summer. The endless variety of French liqueurs that have found their way to England and been appreciated by us speak for themselves. 2897. French Sweetmeats.—As to the bon-bons, no country can match France in the variety and excellence of its productions, and, unless, indeed, the Americans, no people are so fond of sweetmeats as the French. Children are literally surfeited with them, particularly about the jour de Van, the result being that their teeth soon become discoloured, and naturally cannot last long. 2898. Artistic Coolcing.—Most countries, if not all, have probably some equivalent for the French saying that “ men are governed by dinners,” but it is to be feared it cannot be said with equal point that most countries govern their dinners by artistic preparation. We English are unsurpassed for our rosbcef, bi/techs, and other dishes au naturel; what we have still to learn to some extent, for we have already learnt much, is the art of making a piece of meat or fish, or a fowl that may not be of the youngest, not only edible, but palatable and delicate, as well as the art of blending herbs, vegetables and other ingredients, so as to produce the most satisfactory results to the eye, the palate and the digestion, and consequently to the health, temper and happiness of not only men, but women and children, and certainly the cooks themselves. The pot-au-feu, soupe aux choux, a la julienne, a la creci, the bouillabaisse, and fish, a la matelote, au gratin, d la bechamel, a la maitre d'hotel—the bouilli, bceuj a la mode, fricandeau, ragout, supreme, and financi'ere, the civet and salmis of game, and the mayonnaise, vol au vent, omelette, souffle and other French national dishes, are familiar to us if only in name, and recipes for their preparation are to be found in every good English cookery book. On this account it would be only useless repetition to give them, a place in the following short list of French dishes, which has, therefore, been restricted to recipes less known amongst us, but nevertheless in common use in France.