874 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. all is well stirred, put the pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down With a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for ij hour. Time.—1 ^ hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. i860.—BOILED RICE PUDDING. (With Dried or Fresh Fruit; a nice dish for the Nursery.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, 1 pint of any kind of fresh fruit that may be preferred, or | lb. of raisins or currants. Mode.—Wash the rice, tie it in a cloth, allowing room for it to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water ; let it boil for an hour, then take it up, untie the cloth, stir in the fruit, and tie it up again tolerably tight, and put it in the water for the remainder of the time. Boil for another hour, or rather longer, and serve with sweet sauce, if made with dried fruit, and with plain sifted sugar and a little cream or milk, if made with fresh fruit. Time.—I hour to boil the rice without the fruit; 1 hour, or longer, after- wards. Sufficient for 6 or 7 children. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This pudding is very good made with apples: they should be pared, cored, and cut into thin slices. 1861.-BOILED RICE FOR CURRIES, &c. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, water, salt. Mode.—Pick, wash, and soak the rice in plenty of cold water; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drop the rice into it, and keep it boiling quickly, with the lid raised, until it is tender, but not soft. Take it up, drain it, and put it on a dish before the fire to dry: do not handle it much with a spoon, but shake it about a little with two forks, that it may be equally dried, and strew over a little salt. It is now ready to serve, and may be heaped lightly on a dish by itself, or be laid round the dish as a border, with a curry or fricassee in the centre. Some cooks smooth the rice with the back of a spoon, and then brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and set it in the oven to colour; but the rice well boiled, white, dry, and with every grain distinct, is by far the more pre- ferable mode of dressing it. During the process of boiling, the rice should be attentively watched, that it be not overdone, as, if this is the case, it will have a mashed and soft appearance. Time.—15 to 25 minutes, according to the quality of the rice. Average Cost, 3d.