146 Recipes for Soups. the primitive hationS Of mankind. The Chaldeans and the Egyptians were acquainted with it, and Sarah, the wife of Abraham, mixed flour and water together, kneaded it and covered it with ashes on the hearth. The Scriptures inform us that leavened bread was knowu to the Israelites, but it is not known when the art of fermenting it was discovered. It is said that the Romans learnt it during their wars with Perseus, King of Macedon, and that it was introduced to the “imperial city" about 200 years before the birth of Christ. With them it no doubt found its way into Britain; but after their departure from the island, it probably ceased to be used. We know that King Alfred allowed the unfermented cakes to burn in the neatherd's cottage; and that even in the sixteenth century, unfer- mented cakes, kneaded by the women, were the only kind ofbread known to the inhabitants of Norway and Sweden. The Italians of this day consume the greater portion of their flour in the form of polenta, or soft pudding, vermi- celli and macaroni; and, in the remoter districts of Scotland, much unfermented bread is used. We give a cut of the quern grinding-mill, which, towards the end of the last century, was in use in that country, and which is thus described by Dr.Johnson in his “Journey to the Heb- rides: ”—“ It consists of two stones about a foot and a quern, or grinding-mill. half *n diameter; the lower is a little convex, to which the concavity of the upper must be fitted. In the middle of the upper stone is a round hole, and one side is a long handle. The grinder sheds the corn gradually into the hole with one hand, and works the handle round with the other. The corn slides down the convexity of the lower stone, and, by the motion of the upper, is ground in its passage.” Such a primitive piece of machinery, it may safely be said, has entirely disappeared from this country.—In other parts of this work, we shall have opportunities of speaking of bread and bread-making, which, from its great and general use in the nourishment of mankind, has emphatically been called the “ staff of life.” Tne necessity, therefore, of having it pure and good is of the first importance. 294.—CABBAGE SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe aux Choux.) Ingredients.—I large cabbage, i onion, salt and pepper to taste, 3 quarts of medium stock, No. 273; 2 tablespoonfuls of semolina. Mode.— Shred the cabbage, blanch and strain it. Put it with the onion into boiling stock, and simmer for ten minutes, shake in the semolina and cook till clear ; add the seasoning and pour over some croutons placed in the tureen. Time.—i of an hour. Average Cost, 9d. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Cabbage.—It is remarkable, that although there is no country in the world now more plentifully supplied with fruits and vegetables than Great Britain, yet the greater number of these nad no existence in it before the time of Henry VIII. Anderson, writing under the date of 1548, says : “The English cultivated scarcely any vege- tables before the last two centuries. At the commencement of the reign of Henry VIII. neither salad, nor carrots, nor cabbages, nor radishes, nor any other comestibles of a like nature, were grown in any part of the kingdom ; they came from Holland and Flanders." The original of all the cabbage tribe is the wild plant seacolewort, which is to be found wasting whatever sweetness it may have on the desert air, on many cf the cliff's on the south coast of England. In this state, it scarcely weighs more than half an ounce, yet, in a cultivated state, to what dimensions can it be made to grow ! However greatly the whole of the tribe is es- teemed among the moderns, by the ancients they were held in yet higher estimation. The Egyptians adored and raised altars to them, and the Greeks and Romans ascribed many of the most exalted virtues to them. Cato affirmed that the cabbage cured all diseases, and declared that it Was to its use that the Romans were enabled to live in health, and with- out the assistance of physicians for 600 years. It was introduced by that people into Germany, Gaul, and, no doubt, Britain ; although, in this last, r, — it may have been suffered to pass into desuetude for some centuries. The cabbage seeding. whole tribe is in general wholesome and nutritive, and forms a valuable adjunct to animal food.