Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 331 the sauce before the lobster is added to it, as it should retain its square form, and not come to table shredded and ragged. Put in the meat, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, as the colour would imme- diately be spoiled; for it should be remembered that this sauce should always have a bright red appearance. If it be intended to be served with turbot or brill, a little of the spawn (dried and rubbed through a sieve, without butter) should be saved to garnish with ; but as the goodness, flavour and appearance of the sauce so much depend on having a proper quantity of spawn, the less used for garnishing the better. Tinned lobster can be used. It is not unusual to rub the lobster through a wire sieve before adding it to the sauce. This is Puree de Howard. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient to serve with a small turbot, a brill, or salmon for 6 per- sons. Note.—Melted butter made with milk, No. 679, will be found to answer very well for lobster sauce, as by employing it a nice white colour will be obtained. Less quantity than the above may be made by using a very small lobster, to which add only half a pint of melted butter, and season as above. Where economy is desired, the cream may be dispensed with, and the remains of a cold lobster left from table, may, with a little care, be converted into a very good sauce. 730.—MAITRE D’HOTEL BUTTER. {For putting into Broiled Fish just before it is sent to Table.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of cold butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls of minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, the juice of 1 large lemon. Mode.—Work the above ingredients well together, and let them be thoroughly mixed with a wooden spoon. Place it in small lumps under or over the meat or fish it is intended to be served with, and send to table at once before it is melted. Average Cost, for this quantity, 5d. Note.—4 tablespoonfuls of Bechamel, No. 665, 2- tablespoonfuls of white stock, No. 278, with 2 oz. of the above maitre d’hotel butter stirred into it, and just allowed to simmer for 1 minute, will be found an excellent hot maitre d'hotel sauce, which is a name given to any white sauce with chopped parsley and lemon juice in it. The Maitre d’H6tel.—The house-steward of England is synonymous with the maitre d’hotel of France ; and in ancient times, amongst the Latins, he was called procurator, or major-domo In Rome, the slaves, after they had procured the various articles necessary for the repasts of the' daw would return to the spacious kitchen laden with meat, game) sea-fish, vegetables, fruit &c Each one would then lay his basket at the feet of the major-domo, who would examine its contents and register them on his tablets, placing in the pantry contiguous to the dining-room, those of tha provisions needing no preparation, and consigning the others to the more immediate care of the