424 Recipes Jor Cooking Beef. gravy may be poured in the dish, round the rissoles ; in this case, it will not be necessary to send any in a tureen. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, according to size. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 4d. Seasonable at any time. The same made with cold potatoes mashed instead of the bread-crumbs are very good, and the addition of a little sauce is an improvement. 948.—BEEF OLIVES. (Fr.—Olives de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of rump-steak, I egg, i tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of stock, No. 273, 2 or 3 slices of bacon, 2 tablespoonfuls of any store sauce, a slight thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Have the steaks cut rather thin, slightly beat them to make them level, cut them into 6 or 7 pieces, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with herbs, which should be very finely minced ; season with pepper and salt, and roll up the pieces tightly, and fasten with a small skewer. Put the stock into a stewpan that will exactly hold them, for by being pressed together, they will keep their shape better ; lay in the rolls of meat, cover them with the bacon, cut in thin slices, and over that put a piece of paper. Stew them very gently for full 2 hours; for the slower they are done the better. Take them out, remove the skewers, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and flavour with any store sauce that may be pre- ferred. Give one boil, pour over the meat, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, zs.gd. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 949—BEEF OLIVES. (Economical.) Ingredients.—The remains of underdone cold roast beef, bread- crumbs, 1 shalot, finely minced, pepper and salt to taste, gravy made from the beef bones, thickening of butter and flour, x tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup. Mode.—Cut some slices of underdone roast beef about half an inch thick; sprinkle over them some bread-crumbs, minced shalot, and a little of the fat and seasoning; roll them, and fasten with a small skewer. Have ready some gravy made from the beef bones ; put in the pieces of meat and stew them till tender, which will be in about i£ hour, or rather longer. Arrange the meat in a dish, thicken and flavour the gravy, and pour it over the meat when it is ready to serve. Time.—i£ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the beef, 2d. Seasonable at any time.