Fricandeau of Beef. 397 885.—CURRIED BEEF. (Fr.—Boeuf a I’lndienne.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A few slices of tolerably lean cold roast or boiled beef, 3 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 1 wineglassful of beer, 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder. Mode.—Cut up the beef into pieces about 1 inch square, put the butter into a stewpan, with the onions sliced, and fry them of a light- brown colour. Add all the other ingredients, and stir gently over a brisk fire for about 10 minutes. Should this be thought too dry, more beer, or a spoonful or two of gravy or water, may be added ; but a good curry should not be very thin. Place it in a deep dish, with an edging of dry boiled rice, in the same manner as for other curries. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 5d. Seasonable in winter. 886.—TO CLARIFY BEEF DRIPPING. Mode.—Good and fresh dripping answers very well for basting every- thing except game and poultry ; and, when well clarified, serves for frying nearly as well as lard ; it should be kept in a cool place, and will remain good some time. To clarify it, put it into a saucepan and when melted pour it into boiling water, and keep stirring the whole to wash away the impurities. Let it stand to cool, when the water and dirty sediment will settle at the bottom of the fat. Remove the dripping, and put it away in jars or basins for use. 887.—BEEF DRIPPING. {Another Mode.) Mode.—Put the dripping into a clean saucepan, and let it boil for a few minutes over a slow fire, and be careful to skim it well. Let it stand to cool a little, then strain it through a piece of muslin into jars for use. Beef dripping is preferable to any other for cooking purposes, as, with mutton dripping, there is a liability to a tallowy taste and smell. 888.—FRICANDEAU OF BEEF. (Fr.—Fricandeau a POseille.) Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of the inside fillet of the sirloin (a piece of the rump may be substituted for this), pepper and salt to taste, 3 cloves, 2 blades of mace, 6 whole allspice, 1 pint of stock, No. 274, or water, 1 glass of sherry, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 shalots, bacon.