Their Principal Instruments. 197 and flattened on each of its sides. This is precisely the form of the lower part of the hull of a ship ; and it enables both the animal and the vessel, with compara- tive ease, to penetrate and divide the resisting medium for which they have been adapted. The velocity of a ship, however, in sailing before the wind, is by no means to be compared to that of a fish. It is well known that the largest fishes will, with the greatest ease, overtake a ship in full sail, play round it without effort and shoot ahead of it at pleasure. This arises from their great flexibility, to compete with which mocks the labour of art, and enables them to migrate thousands of miles in a season, without the slightest indications of languor or fatigue. 402. —The Principal Instruments employed by Fishes to accel- erate their motion are their air-bladder, fins and tail. By means of the air- bladder they enlarge or diminish the specific gravity of their bodies. When they wish to sink, they compress the muscles of the abdomen, and eject the air con- tained in it; by which, their weight, compared with that of the water, is increased, and they consequently descend. On the other hand, when they wish to rise, they relax the compression of the abdominal muscles, when the air-bladder fills and distends, and the body immediately ascends to the surface. How simply, yet how wonderfully, has the Supreme Being adapted certain means to the attain- ment of certain ends ! Those fishes which are destitute of the air-bladder are heavy in the water, and have no great " alacrity ” in rising. The larger propor- tion of them remain at the bottom, unless they are so formed as to be able to strike their native element downwards with sufficient force to enable them to ascend. When the air-bladder of a fish is burst, its power of ascending to the surface has for ever passed away. From a knowledge of this fact, the fishermen of cod are enabled to preserve them alive for a considerable time in their well- boats. The means they adopt to accomplish this is to perforate the sound, or air-bladder, with a needle, which disengages the air, when the fishes immediately descend to the bottom of the well into which they are thrown. Without this operation, it would be impossible to keep the cod under water whilst they had life. In swimming, the fins enable fishes to preserve their upright position, especially those of the belly, which act like two feet. Without these, they would swim with their bellies upwards, as it is in their backs that the centre of gravity lies. In ascending and descending, these are likewise of great assistance, as they contract and expand accordingly. The tail is an instrument of great muscular force, and largely assists the fish in all its motions. In some instances it acts like the rudder of a ship, and enables it to turn sideways ; and when moved from side to side with a quick vibratory motion, fishes are made, in the same manner as the “ screw ” propeller makes a steamship, to dart forward with a celerity pro- portioned to the muscular force with which it is employed. 403. —The Bodies of Fishes are mostly covered with a kind of horny scales; but some are almost entirely without them, or have them so minute as to be almost invisible; as is the case with the eel. These preserve them from injury by the pressure of the water, or the sudden contact with pebbles, rocks, or seaweeds. Others, again, are enveloped in a fatty, oleaginous substance, which serves as a defence against the friction of the water ; and those in which the scales are small, are supplied with a large quantity of slimy matter. 404. —The Respiration of Fishes is effected by means of those comb- like organs which are placed on each side of the neck, and which are called gills. It is curious to watch the process of breathing as it is performed by the finny tribes. It seems-to be so continuous that it might almost pass for an illustra- tion of the vexed problem which conceals the secret of perpetual motion. In