54 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. They are portable, and therefore tenants' fixtures. They bear no special name collectively, but are distinguished individually by names chiefly of the feminine gender, ending in ess. Thus their ranges bear the names of “Doctress,” “ Con- gress,” “ Lioness,” 11 Mistress,” “ Hostess,” “ New Fortress,” and “ New Princess.” With the exception of the “Doctress,” all these ranges are made in different sizes to suit different requirements. They are cheap and good, do their work efficiently, and require no setting in brick and mortar. Sets of cooking utensils specially adapted to the stoves are supplied with them at extra prices. It will be sufficient to describe two varieties of these ranges as types of the whole number. 90. The “Doctress” Range.—For a small kitchen, or for temporary use in a back kitchen, or for a room which must do duty as living-room and bedroom combined, what could be better than the little “Doctress” Range for administering to the wants of one, two, or maybe three persons. Its form and construction are shown in the accompanying illustration. Its width across the front is 21 inches; its oven g inches by io_inches, good for roasting or baking" the heat being carried all round it. Its price, without utensils, is £i 4s., with utensils, £i 185. ; the cooking utensils supplied for the extra 14s. being a boiling pot, tin- ned, a vegetable steamer, an iron kettle, tinned, a frying-pan, a tin or oven shelf, with the necessary The “Doctress” Range. saucepan, a pan for the oven, a gridiron shovel, poker, flue scraper, and lifter, &c. 91. The “Mistress” Range.— For family use, the “Mistress" Range, perhaps, will compare favour- ably with any ranges produced by Messrs. Smith and Well- stood for economy, efficiency and permanent durability. It is made in twelve different sizes or capacities, so that there is ample room for choice in consideration of family re- quirements. The general prin- ciple of construction and ar- rangement of its parts may be gathered from the annexed illustration, which represents No. 8 size, whose hot plate at top is 42 inches from end to end, with an oven whose capa- city is 16 inches by 17 inches by 12 inches. The fire cham- ber may be closed or opened The “Mistress” Cooking Range. as desired ; and roasting may be performed in front of it when open. It has a copper boiler within the body of the range, which is served by the surplus heat only. The advantages pre-