Truffles with Italian Sauce. 785 In short, a professor has said, “ Meats with truffles are the most distinguished dishes that opu- lence can offer to the epicure." The truffle grows in clusters, some inches below the surface of the soil and is of an irregular globular form. Those which grow wild in England are about the size of a hen’s egg and have no roots. As there is nothing to indicate the places where they are, dogs have been trained to discriminate their scent, by which they are discovered. Hogs are very fond of them and frequently lead to their being found, from their rutting up the ground in search of them. I64o.—ITALIAN MODE OF DRESSING TRUFFLES. (Fr.—Truffes a Ntalienne.) Ingredients.—10 truffles, £ pint of salad-oil, pepper and salt to taste, t tablespoonful of minced parsley, a very little finely minced garlic or shalot, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—After cleansing and brushing the truffles, cut them into thin slices and put them in a baking-dish, on a seasoning of oil, pepper, salt, parsley, garlic and mace, in the above proportion. Bake them for nearly an hour, and just before serving add the lemon-juice, and send them to table very hot. Time.—Nearly 1 hour. Average Cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. Where Truffles are Found.—In this country, the common truffle is found on the downs of Hampshire, Wiltshire and Kent ; and they abound in dry light soils, and more especially in oak and chestnut forests. In France they are plentiful, and many are imported from the south of that country and Italy, where they are much larger and in greater perfection; they lose, however, much of their flavour by drying. In England the artificial propagation of truffles has been tried, but without success. !64i.—TRUFFLES WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. (Fr,—TrufFesa I’ltalienne.) Ingredients.—10 truffles, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 1 minced shalot, salt and pepper to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of good brown gravy, the juice of i lemon, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Wash the truffles and cut them into slices about the size of a penny-piece ; then put them in a saute-pan, with the parsley, shalot, salt, pepper, and one oz. of butter ; stir them over the fire, that they may all be equally done, which will be in about ten minutes, and drain off some of the butter ; then add a little more fresh butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of good gravy, the juice of half a lemon, and a little cayenne; stir over the fire until the whole is on the point of boiling, when serve. Time.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Average Cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. Uses of the Truffle.—Like the morel, truffles are seldom eaten alone, but are much used in gravies, soups and ragouts. They are likewise dried for the winter months, and, when reduced to powder, form a useful culinary ingredient ; they, however, have many virtues attributed to them which they do not possess. Their wholesomeness is, perhaps, questionable, and they should be eaten in moderation.