Wedding Breakfasts. 1319 and forks, &c., and, where the breakfast-table is small, may be made the re- ceptacle of the loaf on its platter, some cut bread having been put on the table, if there are no rolls for breakfast. 3003. Wedding Breakfasts.—The orthodox wedding breakfast seems likely to become a thing of the past so much has it been superseded by the wedding tea that now takes its place at afternoon weddings, menus for which are given in the chapter upon teas. Still there are many who prefer the old-fashioned breakfast which, like the dejeuner of the French people, comes at the time of day when people can enjoy a meal. Those who take nothing in the middle of the day are, as a rule, those whose business or professional occupations give them no time to appreciate it, but even these when taking the day’s holidy that a wedding enforces, are found to enjoy the substantial meal that old-fashioned tastes dictate, and old-fashioned appetites approve, 3004. Wedding Breakfast Viands.—Except in name, there is but little affinity between the above '\nd ordinary breakfast, as those eatables and drinkables specially associated with the latter, never find a place at the old- fashioned wedding breakfast, which has more the character of a cold, luncheon. The table is laid precisely in the same manner as a luncheon table, for it is rarely that this meal is served a la Russe, and there are, as a rule, no hot dishes. • We give two menus for these breakfasts, one for a large party and the other for a small, which give a fair sample of the viands usually chosen. Whatever these may be, they should be made as pretty as possible by both garnishing and decoration, for the table ought to present an elegant appearance. 3005. Wines.—These depend greatly upon both the menu and the means of the donor of the feast. Champagne is the wine most generally drank, but all light wines are admissible ; and whatever wines are to be served, glasses to correspond must be placed on the table, coloured ones being avoided. 3006. Decorations for a wedding breakfast are prettiest and most appro- priate when arranged entirely with white flowers and foliage ; and according to the season, so may these flowers be chosen. If the table be a long one, high stands of white flowers and fern are best, as they can be well seen over the dishes ; but on a small table, small vases of crystal are suitable. Unless the meal is served as a dinner, strewing the cloth is better avoided, as the flowers and leaves will so soon be disarranged, but a low vase with a few blossoms and a little maiden-hair fern to each person looks well. In many cases the cake has a decoration of real flowers, instead of the sugar temples or baskets, upon the top. We have seen this effectively done by having a round of white cardboard cut the exact size of the top of the cake, upon which was laid a very handsome wreath of white flowers. In the centre stood a small white china vase, and when the breakfast took place, the bride’s bouquet was placed in this, the result being a pyramid of! white flowers, than which any prettier decoration cannot well be imagined. When the cake was to be cut, the cardboard top was lifted off, thus removing all impediments. 3007. The bride’s duty is supposed to be to cut the first slice of cake which is partaken of after the actual meal is finished. The cake is generally cut- with a saw provided for that purpose, and this being rather a hard task, the icing being somewhat difficult to cut through, it is generally considered sufficient i£ she make the first incision.