Beef Ragodt, 4x1 Mode.—Boil all the ingredients gently together, so long as any scum or impurity arises, which carefully remove ; when quite cold, pour it over the meat, every part of which must be covered with the brine. This may be used for pickling any kind of meat, and may be kept for some time, if boiled up occasionally with an addition to the ingredients. Time.—A ham should be kept in the pickle for a fortnight; a piece of beef weighing 14 lbs., 12 or 15 days ; a tongue, 10 days or a fortnight. Note.—For salting and pickling meat, it is a pood plan to rub in only half the quantity of salt directed, and to let it remain for a day or two to disgorge and effectually to get rid of the blood and slime; then rub in the remainder of the salt and other ingredients, and proceed as above. This rule may be applied to all the recipes we have given for salting and pickling meat. 919.—TO PICKLE PART OF A ROUND OF BEEF FOR HANGING. (Fr.—Boeuf Marine.) Ingredients.—For 14 lbs. of a round of beef allow i£ lb. of salt, £ oz. of powdered saltpetre ; or, 1 lb. of salt, £ lb. of sugar, | oz. of powdered saltpetre. Mode.—Rub in and sprinkle either of the above mixtures on 14 lbs. of meat. Keep it in an earthenware pan, or a deep wooden tray, and turn twice a week during 3 weeks; then bind up the beef tightly with coarse linen tape, and hang in a kitchen in which a fire is constantly kept for 3 weeks. Pork, hams and bacon may be cured in a similar way, but will require double the quantity of the salting mixture ; and, if not smoke- dried, they should be taken down from hanging after 3 or 4 weeks, and afterwards kept in boxes or tubs, amongst dry oat-husks. Time.— 2 or 3 weeks to remain in the brine ; to be hung 3 weeks. Seasonable at any time. Note.—l'he meat may be boiled fresh from this pickle, instead of smoking it. 920.—BEEF RAGOUT. (Fr.—RagoQt de Boeuf.) (1Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—About 2 lbs. of cold roast beef, 6 onions, pepper, salt, and mixed spices to taste ; | pint of boiling water, 3 tablespoonfuls of gravy. Mode.—Cut the beef into rather large pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the onions, which must be sliced. Season well with pepper, salt and mixed spices, and pour over about half a pint of boiling water, • and gravy in the above proportion (gravy saved from the meat answers : the purpose); let the' whole stew very gently for about 2 hours, and serve 'with pickled walnuts, gherkins, or capers just warmed in the gravy. - Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 4d. Seasonable at any time.