Ragout of Duck. 603 1289.—HASHED DUCK. (Fr.—Canard au Vin Rouge.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast duck, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or water, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, thickening of butter and flour, salt and cayenne to taste, £ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, ^ glass of port or claret. Mode.—Cut the duck into nice joints, and put the trimmings into a stewpan; slice and fry the onion in a little butter; add these to the trimmings, pour in the above proportion of weak stock or water, and stew gently for 1 hour. Strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, season with salt and cayenne, and add the remaining ingredients ; boil it up and skim well; lay in the pieces of duck, and let them get thoroughly hot through by the side of the fire, but do not allow them to boil; they should soak in the gravy for about half-an-hour. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The hash may be made richer by using a stronger and more highly-flavoured gravy ; and a little spice or pounded mace may also be added when their flavour is liked. Time.—hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold duck, /\d. Seasonable from September to January; ducklings from May to August. The Duck.—This bird belongs to the order of Natatores, or Swimmers ; the most familiar tribes of which are ducks, swans, geese, auks, penguins, petrels, pelicans, guillemots, gulls and terns. They mostly live in the water, feeding on fish, worms and aquatic plants. They are generally polygamous, and make their nests among reeds, or in moist places. The flesh of many of the species is eatable, but that of some is extremely rank and oily. The duck is a native of Brittany, out is found on the margins of most of the European lakes. It is excessively greedy, and by no means a nice feeder. It requires a mixture of vegetable and animal food ; but aquatic insects, corn and vegetables are its proper food. Its flesh, however, is savoury, being not so gross as that of the goose, and of easier digestion. In the green-pea season it is usually found on an English table ; but, according to Ude, “ November is its proper season, when it is plump and fat.’’ 1290—TO RAGOUT A DUCK WHOLE. {Fr.—Canard en Ragout.) Ingredients.—I large duck, pepper and salt to taste, good beef gravy, 2 onions sliced, 4 sage-leaves, a few leaves of lemon-thyme, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—After having emptied and singed the duck, season it inside with pepper and salt, and truss it. Roast it before a clear fire for about 20 minutes, and let it acquire a nice brown colour. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient well-seasoned beef gravy to cover it; slice and fry the onions, and add these, with the sage-leaves and lemon-thyme, both of which should be finely minced, to the stock. Simmer gently until the duck is tender ; strain, skim and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour; boil it up, pour over the duck, and serve. When in season, about