Ingredients for Puddings and Pastry. 795 objectionable. Marrow is by many persons preferred to any suet or lard, and is nov' imported and sold in tins at a small price. The soft fat is not so good as the hard, and it is generally better to melt it down and make it into dripping. Suet should be white, not showing any blood-vessels. The kidney suet is often the first part of the animal to show disease. The fat skimmed from soup or boiled meat can be used instead of suet or dripping, but it needs to be well clarified if vegetables have been boiled in the liquor. 1660. Dripping is fat that has been melted. The less the heat employed to melt it the less granular and the better it is. Bought dripping is often so pre- pared that it retains a great deal of water, which increases its weight, to the profit of the seller and to the loss of the purchaser, but that from joints roasted at home is very useful for both plain pastry and puddings. Dripping may replace suet in puddings, but does not make them so light, and therefore is the better for the addition of a little baking-powder. Dripping must at all times be used sparingly, not more than 4 or 5 oz. to a pound of flour, or it gives a disagreeable flavour. It is generally better for hot crust than cold, and for savoury rather than sweet pies. 1661. Dried Fruit, such as raisins, sultanas, currants, figs and prunes, come into the market about November, in readiness for the Christmas markets. They vary in price with the season, and are some years cheaper than others. Old fruit is to be bought very cheaply after Christmas, if the new crop is good and plentiful, and for many purposes old raisins and figs answer very well. The sugar crystallises, but that may not matter if they are free from mites. Cake manufacturers often pour boiling water on them to plump them. Sultanas are usually, but not always, dearer than raisins. Currants do not keep well, and are neither so wholesome nor so nutritious as raisins. Their unwholesomeness, which is a fact noticed every day, is probably owing to the waxy skin that envelopes them and defies the action of the digestive juices. Raisins also have a waxy skin, but are chopped or masticated. Currants should be washed and picked over when first they come from the shop, dried slowly and put away ; then, before using, they only need rubbing in flour to remove the dust. To use them wet or hot spoils any cakes, and to dry them in the oven spoils the flavour. Raisins can also be stoned at leisure, and put away in closed jars until wanted. The best sort of raisins are the sun-dried Roquovaire. Inferior raisins are dried in kilns and they have a sour taste. Dried muscat grapes are sold for the table as well as for puddings. A cheaper variety goes under the name of Valencia. 1662. Sugar is so cheap at the present time that the temptation to adulterate it is small. Moist and pounded white sugar are least likely to be pure, and the moist, especially, sometimes contains the sugar mite that produces “ grocer s itch ” in those who handle it. Except for the finer kinds of puddings crystallised Demerara is to be preferred, as it has most sweetening powers. In France, in 1870, 300,000,000 kilograms of beetroot sugar were produced, and most of the sugar in use in that country is beetroot, which has less sweetening power than cane, so that allowance should be made for this in using French recipes. 1663. Eggs.—The important thing is that they should be fresh. To choose them see instructions. Each one should be broken separately into a basin if there is any doubt of their being good. They are not necessary, only advisable, in the plainer suet puddings, though they are necessary in the richer kinds where there is not enough flour to hold the other ingredients together. Generally speaking, an egg, particularly the yolk of an egg, should be well beaten in a pudding, which is much more efficacious than to beat it in a basin alone. For almost all light pudding? the white is better beaten to a froth and added the last thing. Baking-powder