346 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. add the yolk of a raw egg, and stir well, when it will be ready for use. This sauce should not be curdled ; and to prevent this, the only way is to mix a little of everything at a time, and not to cease stirring. The quan- tity of oil and vinegar may be increased or diminished according to taste, as many persons would prefer a smaller proportion of the former ingre- dient. Green Remoulade is made by using tarragon vine- gar instead of plain, and colouring with a little parsley- juice ; any store sauce, or Chili vinegar, may be added at Time.—10 minutes to boil the eggs. Average Cost, for this quantity, 7d. Sufficient for a salad made for 4 or 6 persons. Tarragon. (Fr. —Estragon.)—The leaves of this plant, known to naturalists as Artemisia dracimculus, are much used in France as a flavour- ing ingredient for salads. From it also is made the vinegar known as tarragon vinegar, which is employed by the French in mixiug their mus- tard. It originally comes from Tartary, and does not seed in France. The Oil70 and Olive Oil.—This tree assumes a high degree of interest from the historical cir- cumstances with which it is connected. A leaf of it was brought into the ark by the dove, when that vessel wasstill floating on the waters of the great deep, and gave the first token that the deluge was subsiding. Among the Greeks, the prize of the victor in the Olympic games was a wreath of wild olive ; and the “ Mount of Olives ” is rendered familiar to our ears by its being mentioned in the Scriptures as near to Jerusa- lem. The tree is indigenous in the north of Africa, Syria and Greece; and the Romans introduced it to Italy. In Spain and in the south of France it is now cultivated; and although it grows in England, its fruit does not ripen in the open air. Both in Greece and Portugal the fruit is eaten in its ripe state; but its taste is not agree- able to many palates. To the Indian shepherd, bread and olives, with a little wine, form a nourishing diet: but in England, olives are usually only introduced by way of dessert, to destroy the taste of the viands which have been previously eaten, that the flavour of the wine may be the better enjoyed. There are three kinds of olives im- ported to London—the French, Spanish and Italian; the first are from Provence, and are generally accounted excellent; the second are larger but more bitter; and the last are from Lucca, and are esteemed the best. The oil extracted from olives, called olive oil, or salad oil, is, with the Continentals, in continual reqnest, more dishes being prepared with than without it, we should imagine. With us, it is principally used in mixing a salad, and when thus employed, it tends to prevent fermentation, and is an antidote against flatulency. THE OLIVE. 766.-SALAD DRESSING. (Fr.—Remoulade.) (Excellent.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, £ teaspoonful of white pepper, half that quantity of cayenne, salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, vinegar. Mode.—Boil the eggs until hard, which will be in about a quarter of an hour or 20 minutes ; put them into cold water, take off the shells, and pound the yolks in a mortar to a smooth paste. Then add all the other ingredients, except the vinegar, and stir them well until the whole are thoroughly incorporated one with the other. Pour in. sufficient vinegar to