Apricot Tart. 817 when half cold, add the sugar, the well-whisked yolks oi the eggs and the sherry. Divide the apricots in half, scald them until they are soft, aud break them up with a spoon, addiug a few of the kernels, which should be well pounded in a mortar ; then mix the fruit and other ingredients together, put a border of paste round the dish, fill with the mixture, and bake the pudding from half to three-quarters of an hour. Time.—£ to j hour. Average Cost, in full season, is. 10d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August, September and October. 1715.— APRICOT TART. (Fr.—Tourte aux Abricots.) Ingredients.—12 or 14 apricots, sugar to taste, puff-paste or shoit- crust. Mode.—Break the apricots in half, take out the stones, and put them into a pie-dish, in the centre of which place a very small cup or jar, bottom uppermost; sweeten with good moist sugar, but add no water. Line the edge of the dish with paste, put.on the cover, and ornament the pie in any of the usual modes. Bake from half to three-quarters of an hour, according to size ; and if puff-paste is used, glaze it about 10 minutes before the pie is done, and put it into the oven again to set the glaze. Short crust merely requires a little sifted sugar sprinkled over it before being sent to table. Time.—i to $ hour. Average Cost, in full season, is. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August. September and October; green ones rather earlier. Note.—Green apricots make very good tarts, but they should be boiled with a little sugar and water before they are covered with the crust. Apricots.—The apricot is indigenous to the plains of Armenia, but is now cultivated in almost every climate, temperate or tropical. There are several varieties. The skin of this fruit has a perfumed flavour, highly esteemed. A good apricot, when perfectly ripe, is an excellent fruit. It has been somewhat condemned for its laxative qualities, bat this has possibly arisen from the fruit having been eaten unripe, or in too great quantity. Delicate persons should not eat the apricot uncooked, without a liberal allowance of powdered sugar. The apricot makes excellent jam and marmalade, and there are several foreign preparations of it which are con- sidered great luxuries. 1716.—BAKED OR BOILED ARROWROOT PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, i£' pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, the rind of £ a lemon, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot with as much cold milk as will make it into a smooth batter, moderately thick; put the remainder of the milk into a stewpan with the lemon-peel and let it infuse for about half an hour* when it boils, strain it gently to the batter, stirring it all the time to keep