Variety of Food. 1309 tion. A child must be well fed before it can be well taught. As the child gets older and school life begins with its heavy taxation of brain, still more important does it become that the body should be well nurtured, while men and women engaged in brain work often want their appetites stimulated, and their tastes carefully consulted before they are able to take a sufficient quantity of nourish- ing food. 2977. Variety of Food.—We have heard of a family who have the same food daily at each meal, and who can eat it with relish, but this is an exception to prove the rule that change is necessary for all, children as well as adults. If we want our food to do us good it should be that we can enjoy, and this is where the skill of the housekeeper comes in. She may not be able to provide very luxurious repasts, the food in fact may be simple, but she can yet make it plea- santly varied, and she can see that the best is made out of the materials at her disposal. The best fed people are not always the richest. A dainty dish pre- pared by loving hands will often tempt those who need it to eat when the cook’s efforts fail, and it is the bounden duty of every housekeeper to look after the creature comforts of those around her, to consult individual taste if necessary, to see that her children not only have, but take a sufficient quantity of nourishing food, and that what is absolutely distasteful to them is avoided. Mothers who want their little ones to grow up healthy and strong, and wives who want to keep their husbands in good temper as well as good health, should never grudge the hours spent in seeing that their meals are such as are likely to tempt and satisfy them. They will never find it has been waste of time to attain this happy result. 2978. Regularity.—The second consideration with regard to meals is their regularity ; and it is scarcely more necessary that the food should be good as that it should be served at regular hours. Speaking from the health point of view, regularity is most essential. A meal that we have waited for an hour too long is often one that we fail to appreciate; and while to the healthy irregularity is dangerous, to the delicate it is injurious. It is not difficult to determine what are the best times to take our meals, although on this subject opinions vary, but when once these hours are fixed, with as much regard to the comfort and occupations of all as can be arranged, the next thing is to insist on punctuality, not only for those who serve them, but for those for whom they are pre- pared. Food cooked to a nicety cannot afford to wait; good things are spoilt, and waste and discontent are the result, if people are not ready to partake of what Is prepared at a given time. Also it is very certain that we cannot expect to find it ready to the moment, therefore it should be as much insisted upon that the members of the household should be punctual as that the servants should be so. 2979. Looking at the question of punctuality in another light, all will acknowledge how much the comfort of the household depends upon this. One person only in a household persistently late for meals, who has a knack of coming in from a walk that might easily have terminated half an hour sooner, may keep half a dozen people waiting, and spoil a dinner. It has been truly said that selfish people are seldom punctual ones; and if we look round and call to mind those of our friends who most often keep us waiting, ten to one they are the lazy ones who have their time at their own disposal, and who only think of t-heir own convenience and comfort. As to the disarrangement of the servants’ duties, it is not difficult to see how unpunctuality must affect them, particularly where there are but few and their work heavy, and it really behoves us, for their sake as well a6 our own, to keep to the stated hours for meals.