204 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. crumbs, 2 eggs. 627.—FORCEMEAT FOR COLD SAVOURY PIES. (Fr.— Farce de Veau.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of veal, 1 lb. of fat bacon, salt, cayenne pepper, and pounded mace to taste, a very little nutmeg, the same of chopped lemon-peel, £ a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, ^ a teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs, 1 or 2 eggs. Mode.—Chop the veal and bacon together, and put them in a mortar with the other ingredients mentioned above. Pound well, and bind with 1 or 2 eggs which have been previously beaten and strained. Work the whole well together, and the forcemeat will be ready for use. If the pie is not to be eaten immediately, omit the herbs and parsley, as these would prevent it from keeping. Mushrooms or truffles may be added. Sufficient for 2 small pies. Marjoram. (Fr.—Marjolaine.)— Although there are several species of marjoram, that which is known as tne sweet or knotted marjoram is the one usually preferred in cookery. It is a native of Portugal, and when its leaves are used as a seasoning herb, they have an agreeable aromatic flavour. The winter sweet marjoram used for the same pur- poses, is a native of Greece, and the pot-marjoram is another variety brought from Sicily. All of them are favourite ingredients in soups, stuffings, &c. 628.—FORCEMEAT FOR PIKE, CARP, HADDOCK, AND VARIOUS KINDS OF FISH. (Fr.—Farce de Huitres ou d’Anchois.) Ingredients.—I oz. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of suet, 1 oz. of fat bacon, 1 small teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs, including parsley ; a little onion, when liked, shredded very fine; salt, nutmeg and cayenne to taste, 4 oz. of bread-crumbs, 1 egg. Mode.—Mix all the ingredients well together, carefully mincing them very finely; beat up the egg, moisten with it, and work the whole very smoothly together. Oysters or anchovies may be added to this force- meat, and will be found a great improvemen Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized haddock or pike. 629-FORCEMEAT FOR VEAL, TURKEYS, FOWLS, HARE, &c. (Fr.—Farce de Jambon.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of ham or lean bacon, £ lb. of suet, the rind of half a lemon, r teaspoonful of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced sweet herbs, salt, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, 6 oz. of bread-