355 Vanilla Sauce. few minutes, then skim off all the fat, strain and serve. This sauce, with the addition of a little cream, is now frequently called Veloute. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, iod. Note-—If poultry trimmings are at hand, the stock should be made of these ; and the above sauce should not be made too thick, as it does not then admit of the fat being nicely removed. 787.—VALOIS SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Valois.) Ingredients.—2 dessertspoonfuls of vinegar, 2 shalots, 5 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of glace de volaille, 1 teaspooniul of chopped parsley. Mode.—Wash and finely mince the shalots, add the vinegar, and simmer gently till the vinegar is reduced. Let it cool, when add the yolks of five eggs, and one ounce of butter; stir thoroughly and add another ounce of butter. Mix thoroughly and replace on the fire, add the glace de volaille, and a third ounce of butter; again replace on the fire, when add the fourth ounce of butter, and again mix well. Add the chopped parsley, and serve. Time.—I hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. per pint. 788.-GLACE DE VOLAILLE. Ingredients.—6 lbs of knuckle of veal, 6 fowls, 1 lb. of carrots, 1 lb. of leeks, 1 lb. of onions, 1 oz. of salt, and 9 quarts of water. Mode.—Bone and mince the veal; add salt, carrots, leeks, and onions ; let all gently simmer till the meat is thoroughly cooked, remove the meat and fowls, and strain the liquor through a clean cloth; place in a large stewpan and reduce it to two-thirds of the quantity, and pour out into a large basin. When cold enough to be a fine hard jelly, remove the layer on the top, and turn the jelly out of the basin, removing the deposit at the bottom. Place the now clear and solid jelly in a stewpan, and again reduce it one-third over a fierce fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. Pour into a basin, and use as required. Time.—2 days. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. per pint. Note.—'• Glace,” or strong savoury jelly, may be made of fish, game, fowls or meat. 789.—VANILLA CUSTARD SAUCE. (To Serve with Puddings.) Ingredients.—§ pint of milk, 2 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar, 10 drops of essence of vanilla.