7 35 Boiled French Beans. Mode.—The asparagus must be boiled in the usual way; when tender, cut up the tops and all that is eatable, roll a piece of butter in flour, put it in a saucepan with the asparagus, some milk, the beaten yolks of raw eggs, a little nutmeg and mace. The quantities of the ingredients must be regulated by the amount of asparagus. Scoop the crumb out of some French rolls, after cutting off the top crust, fill the cavity with the boiling asparagus, put on the top crust and serve imme- diately. Time.—25 minutes. Sufficient.—Allow 1 roll for each person. Seasonable.—May be had forced from January, but cheapest in May, June and July. 154!.—BOILED FRENCH BEANS. (Fr.—Haricots Verts au Naturel.) Ingredients.—To each £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, a very small piece of soda. Mode.—This vegetable should always be eaten young, as, when allowed to grow too long, it tastes stringy and tough when cooked. Cut off the heads and tails, and a thin strip on each side of the beans, to remove the strings. Then divide each bean into four or six pieces, according to size, cutting them lengthways, in a slanting direction, and, as they are cut, drop them into cold water with a small quantity of salt dissolved in it. Have, ready a saucepan of boiling water with salt and soda in the above proportion; put in the beans, keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, and be careful that they do not get smoked. When tender, which may be ascertained by their sinking to the bottom of the saucepan, take them up, throw them into a colander ; and when drained, dish and serve with, or without, plain melted butter. When very young, beans are sometimes served whole; when they are thus dressed, their colour and flavour are much better preserved ; but the more general way of dressing them is to cut them into thin strips. Time.—Very young beans, 10 to 12 minutes ; moderate size, 15 to 20 minutes, after the water boils. Average Cost, in full season, 2A. a lb.; but when forced, very expensive. * Sufficient—Allow 2 lb. for a dish. Seasonable from the middle of July to the end of September; but may be had, forced, from February to the beginning of June. SCARLET RUNNER.