CHAPTER XX. PRESERVED AND TINNED MEAT. 1228. All Important Trade has sprung up within the last quarter of a century in tinned foods of various kinds. There are some indications that the trade has passed its greatest success, the latest returns having persistently shown a steady deerease in the import of tinned meat and an increase in that of fresh meat. When tinned provisions were first introduced the problem of bringing fresh meat from distant continents to the London market had not yet been solved, and it was confidently predicted that tinned meat would change the whole aspect of the butchers’ trade. Previous to the discovery of the method, mutton, in Australia, was grown for the sake of the wool and the carcass was wasted, or melted down for tallow. There can be no doubt that tinned provisions are a valuable addition to our food-sup- ply, and if they have not taken the place that once was claimed for them that is due to a variety of causes at first overlooked or non-existent. 1229. Over-cooking.—The great drawback of tinned meat is that it is over- cooked. The mode of its preparation necessitates this : Tins containing cooked meat, with one small aperture only, are placed in a bath of chloride of zinc which is made to boil. The boiling point of chloride of zinc is considerably above that of water, and consequently the contents of the tin are heated to the highest possible point and a jet of steam and air pours from the one small hole in the tin. As soon as the air is exhausted and only steam issues a drop of solder closes the tin, which, in cooling, collapses. If ever so little air remains, fermentation takes place, and the sides of the tin bulge ; this bulging is therefore always a bad sign. For choosing tins the only point to be observed is a slight concavity of sides and top. There is some slight differencein different makers, both in price and in quality, but this is far less than the wide difference between tinned meat and any other kind of meat cooked in any other way. 1230. Value of Tinned Meat.—The whole of the meat is in the tin, and those who judge only from theory have therefore argued that there is as much