Honey Cake. 1123 Seasonable at any time work the whole into a nice smooth paste; roll it out, cut it into cakes, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. 3d. Seasonable at any time. 2489.—HOLIDAY CAKE. Ingredients.—4 teaspoonfuls of any good baking-powder, 2 lbs. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, £ lb. of lard, x lb. of currants, £ lb. of stoned and cut raisins, £ lb. of mixed candied peel, £ lb. of moist sugar, 3 eggs, £ pint of cold milk. Mode.—Mix the baking-powder with the flour; then rub in the butter and lard; have ready the currants, washed, picked, and dried, the raisins stoned and cut into small pieces (not chopped), and the peel cut into neat slices. Add these with the sugar to the flour, &c., and mix all the dry ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, stir to them the milk, and with this liquid moisten the cake ; beat it up well, that all may be very thoroughly mixed ; line a cake-tin with buttered paper, put in the cake, and bake it from 2\ to 2! hours holiday cake. in a good oven. To ascertain when it is done, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, and if, on withdrawing it, the knife looks clean, and not sticky, the cake is done. To prevent its burning at the top, a piece of clean paper may be put over whilst the cake is soaking, or being thoroughly cooked in the middle. A steamer, such as is used for steaming potatoes, makes a very good cake-tin, if it be lined at the bottom and sides with buttered paper. Time.—z\ to 2£ hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 2490.—HONEY CAKE. Ingredients. — £ breakfastcupful of sugar, 1 breakfastcupful of rich sour cream, 2 breakfast cupfuls of flour, £ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, honey to taste. Mode.—Mix the sugar and cream together; dredge in the flour, with as much honey as will flavour the mixture nicely; stir it well, that all the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed; add the carbonate of soda, and beat the cake well for another 5 minutes ; put it into a buttered tin, bake it from half to three-quarters of an hour, and let it be eaten warm. Time.—i to £ hour. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.