1 \ I THE BOOK OF ousehold Management. CHAPTER I. THE MISTRESS. 1. “ *trfitgth atttt fjonour arE rlart)tng; anti tifyz sljall rcjoue In time la rernc. £>i)e aperxertj tjcr maut!) tottlj tot^Bam; anO tii ljcr tongue he lata af fetntmeste. gfye Iaofecti) torll ta ttje toaeO of Ijcr IjattscljalO, antt katetti not tt»e ireati of lOIeuc^^. tfjtliimi art^c up, anO tall Ijer JlcSsetl; t)cr IjufibanO also. anO t)e pi'atSctt) ijer.”—Proverbs, xxxi. 25-28. As with the Commander of an Army, or the leader of an enter- prise so is it with the mistress of a house. Her spirit will be seen through Jfthe whole establishment ; and just in proportion as she performs her duties Rintelligently and thoroughly, so will her domestics follow in her path Of all Mftose acquirements, which more particularly belong to the there are none which take a higher rank, in our estimation, than such as enter lKto a knowledge of household duties ; for on these are perpetually dependent W,e happiness, comfort, and well-being of a family. In tthi3 ^inaon we are iorne out by the author of “ The Vicar of Wakefield, who says . lirgin. the prudent wife, and the careful matron are much more serviceable in Ife than petticoated philosophers, blustering heroines, ot virago queans^ She rho makes her husband and her children happy, who reclaims , ad trains up the other to virtue, is a much greater character than ladies escribed in romances, whose whole occupation is to murder mankind with bafts from their quiver, or their eyes.” J2. The Housewife.—To be a good housewife does not necessarily imply na abandonment of proper pleasures or amusing recreation ; and we think it the pore necessary to express this, as the performance of the dunes of a mistress pay, to some minds, perhaps seem to be incompatible with the enj y let us, however, proceed to describe some of those home qualities and virtue Ihich are necessary to the proper management of a household, and then point at the plan which may be the most profitably pursued for the daily regulation ' its affairs.