300 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. extravagant. Fifty hams ! do you intend to feast my whole regiment ? ” “ No, Prince, there will be but one on the table, and the surplus I need for my Es- pagnole, blondes, garnitures, &c.” “Bertrand, you are robbing me : this item will not do." “Monseigneur,” said the artiste, “you do not appreciate me. Give me the order, and I will put those fifty hams in a crystal flask no bigger than my thumb.” The prince smiled, and the hams were passed. This was all very well for the Prince de Soubise; but as we do not write for princes and nobles alone, but that our British sisters may make the best dishes out of the least expensive ingredients, we will also pass the hams, and give a few general directions concerning Sauces, &c. 641. Sauces.— It may safely be asserted that a first-rate sauce maker is alsi a good cook; not that sauces are the beginning and end of all cookery, but becav'se he who can acquit himself creditably in the difficult affairs of life will not fa^' in the easier. Sauce* give flavour to insipid food and moisten what is too dry. They correct the acidity of one dish and aid in the digestion of another. They also im- prove the apoearance of many foods, covering what is unsightly and introducing pleasant colours. There is, perhaps, a tendency to exaggerate the importance of the good appearance of sauces. Cooks often act as if a good sauce did away with the necessity for careful preparation and good material in the solid part of a dinner, especially in the indifferent copies of French dishes that are sometimes met with. They sacrifice flavour and even wholesomeness to colour, and their produc- tions are like the apples of Sodom, fair without and bitter disappointment within. They forget that the end and aim of good cookery is to taste well, and if by the way the eye is pleased, that is so much gained. Good appearance and good flavour ought to go together; but if one must be sacrificed, there is no question that the appearance should go first. 642. Garnishing.—There is a congruity in the serving and garnishing of dishes that is often lost sight of. To be very neat, very simple, and good of the kind is generally all that is wanted in a moderate household. There never can be any excuse for untidy serving, or food set awry, and grease in the wrong place, sauce spilt over the edges of the dish, or dirt. Such things look worse on an elaborate dinner than a plain one, just as a soiled collar and dirty hands look worst of all with a smart dress and gold bracelets. Never attempt to serve a dinner beyond your powers. 643. Shnjile sauces.—At the same time sauces are necessary in the most modest kitchen, and they are as easy to make rightly as wrongly, if only one know the way how. 1 here are thick sauces and thin; sweet, sour and savoury; store sauces, as well as what some cooks call “ foundation ” sauces, because the latter are used as a sort of basis for the reception of different flavours. 644. Thickening for sauces.—The most common thickening for sauce is flour. T. he quantity generally used is one ounce, or a heaped tablespoonful, to a pint of liquid, though twice or three times that is necessary to make a sauce thick enough to adhere to whatever it is poured over. Cornflour or arrowroot is often used instead of flour, and makes a smooth and more delicate sauce. The powders sold for custards and custard sauce are made of some kind of starch, flavoured and coloured. All sauces containing flour or starch must boil and must be stirred till they do boil, or the starch settles to the bottom, and, instead of thickening the whole, makes lumps. After it once boils it can be left, and the longer it cooks the thicker it will be. There is some difference in the quality of flour, and it does not thicken one time as another. Dry flour must never be mixed with hot liquid