To Choose Flour. 1083 spoken could not exist here. But the truth is that there is a good deal of yeast in the world that we do not know of. If the solution begins to ferment, yeast has certainly got into it some way or another, and yet, exposed to the air, it is almost sure to ferment sooner or later, and will probably ferment very soon if there is yeast anywhere near. 2385. To choose Flour.—The quality of wheat varies much with the weather of each season at home, and also with the weather and soil in countries that differ more from each other than our wettest season from our driest. So much flour is now imported that we always have a good supply. If one country fails, another succeeds. In bygone times, when there was little or no foreign com, if the corn sprouted in shock there was bad bread for the community until a better season came round, for sprouted corn and bad flour cannot be made into good bread, even with all the skilful manipulation of the modem baker. 2386. Good flour is dry, and does not lose more than 12 per cent, in weight when heated in an oven. To grind corn damp, and so increase its weight, is not an uncommon practice. Every cook knows that the same weight of flour will not always mix with an equal measure of water, and that the better the flour the more water it takes up. It snould be white with a yellowish tinge, household flour being always less white than “ firsts," or fine Hungarian, used for pastry; adherent, so that a handful squeezed together keeps its shape; neither acid, nor soon becoming acid; and it should above all make a good loaf. This last is the best of all tests, and before buying any large quantity of flour it is always wise to apply it on a sample. From one sack of flour (280 lbs.) from ninety to a hundred and five quartern (4-lb.) loaves have been made. The average is about ninety-six. If the flour is remarkably good and dry, a greater weight of water is taken up; but a less legitimate way of increasing the weight is to add rice or potatoes and so to make damper bread. Cloths are also thrown over bread hot out of the oven to retain the steam. 2387. Loss of Weight in Baking.—Dough loses about £th of its weight in baking. Potato is sometimes added in small quantities with no evil intent, because yeast acts more quickly on potato starch than flour. The skill of the baker is applied so as to mix the flour that it may produce the best bread, as regards its colour, flavour, and keeping quality. It is usual to use strong American flour for setting the sponge, and afterwards to knead in some of the sweet flour grown in our English counties. About two thirds of our flour comes from abroad, and it is generally used to mix in with, and fortify our home supply, though everyone who has tried new English flour, grown in a good season or good soil, will agree that none can equal it for sweetness. BROWN LOAF. 2388. Daily Consumption of Bread.—It is usual to allow ilb. of bread per diem to each person. Two people would eat a half quartern loaf between them. This is an ample allowance, even if there is not a very abundant supply of other foods, and if more than this is used in any average household there is probably some waste going on. The poorer housekeepers, who fetch their bread, get it weighed, and are careful to have a slice thrown in if it is under weight, but bread brought to the house is not weighed by the baker. Fancy bread is never