Aerated Bread. 1085 heat of the air it contains, and the greater the difference between the coldness of the air as it goes into the oven and the heat of the oven itself the more it will rise, always provided that the oven is not so fierce as to scorch and stiffen the crust before the inside has had time to be heated. CakCs can be made-light with snow instead of water, even with no baking-powder, because of the extreme coldness of the air that is mixed into them. In this kind of bread-making the gas is formed in the dough, but not of it as with yeast, and, therefore, the taste of the wheat is more perfectly preserved. 2392. Other Acids used.—When hydrochloric acid is used, instead of tartaric acid or cream of tartar, it combines with the soda to form chloride of sodium, better known as common salt. It is more difficult to mix than the dry acid, but it has the advantage that common salt is always harmless, while tartrate of soda is an aperient, having exceptional action upon a few constitutions. There are persons who cannot eat baking-powder bread, and this is probably the reason. Such an idiosyncrasy is, it must be confessed, very rare ; and the commercial acid often contains arsenic, which is very objectionable. A commoner objection to baking powder is that it leaves a soapy taste, resulting from an excess of soda. Excess of acid is far less objectionable and less common. Other acids may be used, as, for instance, sour milk or butter-milk, which makes excellent bread with bi-carbonate “ of soda. Liebig recommended acid phosphate of lime, chloride of sodium, and bi-carbonate of soda, which very gently and slowly evolves the gas, and, therefore, makes better bread than substances that effervesce slowly and are soon still. Sesqui-carbonate of ammonia is also used by bakers to make cakes. It is extremely volatile, and must be kept in a tightly-stoppered bottle. MILK BREAD. 2393. Eggs act in two ways. They increase the tenacity of the dough'so that it better retains the air, and when they are beaten to a froth they carry a good deal of air into the cake. 2394. “ Graham, ” bread is also made oftrown meal and water, without any ferment other than the small amount of cerealine contained in the wheat grain itself. It is, however, only eaten by a few persons. 2395. Aerated Eread.—It is not unknown to many of our readers that Dr. Dauglish, of Malvern, has patented a process for making bread “ light ” without the use of leaven or powder. The ordinary process of bread-making by fermentation is tedious, and much labour of human hands is requisite in the kneading, in order that the dough may be thoroughly mixed with the leaven. By the new process, carbonic acid gas is forced into the bread by the application of machinery. Different opinions are expressed about the bread ; but it is curious to note that, as corn is now reaped by machinery, and dough is baked by machinery, the whole process of bread-making is probably in course of undergoing changes //hich will emancipate both the housewife and the profes- sional baker from a large amount of labour. In the pro- duction of Aerated Bread, wheaten flour, water, salt, and carbonic acid gas are the only materials employed. We need not inform our readers that carbonic acid gas is the source of the effer- vescence, whether in common water coming from a depth, or in lemonade, or any aerated drink. Its action, in the new aerated bread, takes the place of the carbonic acid gas produced by fermentation in the old system of bread-making.