948 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Time.—io minutes to boil the juice and water. Average Cost, 2$. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May. 2026. —ORANGE CREAMS. (Fr —Creme aux Oranges.) Ingredients.—1 Seville orange, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, \ lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream. Mode.—Boil the rind of the Seville orange until tender and beat it in a mortar to a pulp; add to it the brandy, the strained juice of the orange, and the sugar and beat all together for about 10 minutes, adding the well-beaten yolks of eggs. Bring the cream to the boiling-point, and pour it very gradually to the other ingredients and beat the mixture till nearly cold; put it into custard-cups, place the cups in a deep dish of boiling water, where let them remain till quite cold. Take the cups out of the water, wipe them, and garnish the tops of the creams with candied orange-peel or preserved chips. Time.—Altogether, f hour. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 creams. Seasonable from November to May. Note.—To render this dish more economical, substitute milk for the cream, but add a small pinch of isinglass to make the creams firm. Seville Orange (Citrus vulgaris).—This variety, called also bitter orange, is of the same species as the sweet orange, and grows in great abundance on the banks of the Guadalquiver, in Andalu- sia, whence this fruit is chiefly obtained. In that part of Spain there are very extensive orchards of these oranges, which form the chief wealth of the monasteries. The pulp of the bitter orange is not eaten raw. In the yellow rind, separated from the white spongy substance immediately below it, is contained an essential oil, which is an agreeable warm aromatic, much superior for many purposes to that of the common orange. The best marmalade and the richest wine are made from this orange ; and from its flowers the best orange-flower water is distilled. Seville oranges are also preserved whole as a sweetmeat. 2027. —ORANGE FRITTERS. (Fr.—Beignets aux Oranges.) Ingredients.—For the batter: £ lb. of flour, ^ oz. of butter, £ salt- spoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, oranges, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Make a nice light batter with the above proportion of flour, butter, salt, eggs, and sufficient milk to make it of the proper consistency; peel the oranges, remove as much of the white skin as possible, and divide each orange into eight pieces, without breaking the thin skin, unless it be to remove the pips ; dip each piece of orange in the batter. Have ready a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping; drop in the oranges, and fry them a delicate brown from 8 to 10 minutes. When done, lay them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire, to drain away the greasy mois- ture, and dish them on a white d’oyley; sprinkle over them plenty of pounded sugar, and serve quickly.