To Cun Tongues. 421 Time.—From 10 to 14 days to remain in the pickle; to be smoked 24 days. Average Cost, for a medium-sized uncured tongue, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—If not wanted immediately, the tongue will keep 3 or 4 weeks without being too salt; then it must not be rubbed, but only turned in the pickle. 940.-TO CURE TONGUES. (A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—9 lbs. of salt, 8 oz. of sugar, 9 oz. of powdered salt- petre. Mode.—Rub the above ingredients well into the tongues, and keep them in this curing mixture for 2 months, turning them every day. Drain them from the pickle, cover with brown paper, and have them smoked for about 3 weeks. Time.—The tongues to remain in pickle for 2 months: to be smoked 3 weeks. Sufficient.—The above quantity of brine is sufficient for 12 tongues, of 5 lbs. each. Seasonable at anv time. The Tongues of Animals.—The tongue, whether in the ox or in man, is the seat of the sense of taste. This sense warns the animal against swallowing deleterious substances. Dr. Carpenter says that, among the lower animals, the instinctive perceptions connected with this sense are much more remarkable than our own; thus, an omnivorous monkey will seldom touch fruits of a poison- ous character, although their taste maybe agreeable. How- ever this may be, man’s instinct has decided that ox-tongue is better than horse-tongue; nevertheless, the latter is frequently substituted by dishonest dealers for the former. The horse’s tongue may be readily distinguished by a spoon- like expansion at its end. BEEF TONGUE. 941.—POTTED OX-TONGUE. (Fr.—Terrine de Langue de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—1 unsmoked tongue, 3 lbs. in weight, $ lb. of butter, J teaspoonful of cayenne, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded mace, £ teaspoonful of nutmeg and pounded cloves. Mode.—Boil the tongue and allow it to cool, then remove the rind and pound the tongue in a mortar, with the other ingredients, as fine as pcs sible; then press it into small pots and pour clarified butter on the top. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. 942.—TO PICKLE &. DRESS A TONGUE TO EAT COLD. Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt, 2 oz. of bay-salt, i oz. of saltpetre, 3 Cz. of coarse sugar; cloves, mace, and allspice to taste ; butter, common crust of flour and water.