1214 Recipes for Beverages. Mode.—Put the sugar, pounded, into a jug with the rind of the orange cut very thin, pour over the champagne, cut the apricots in half, stone them and slice them into the jug; then set it in ice for a little while, after which, remove the orange rind and add the sherry, brandy and liqueur, and lastly the soda, also iced; give one stir round, pour into a bowl, float the verbena on the top and serve. Average Cost, 7s. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable in Summer. Champagne.—This, the most celebrated of French wines, is the produce chiefly champagne, ofthe province of that name, and is generally understood in England to be a brisk effervescing, or sparkling white wine, of a very fine flavour; but this is only one of the varieties of this class. There are both red and white champagnes, and each of these may be either still or brisk. There are the sparkling wines (mousseux), and the still wines (non- mousseux). The brisk are in general the most highly esteemed, or, at least, are the most popular in this country, on account of their delicate flavour and the agreeable pungency which they derive from the carbonic acid they contain, and to which they owe their briskness. 2720.—CHAMPAGNE CUP. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.— 1 quart bottle of champagne, 2 bottles of soda water, 1 liqueur-glass of brandy or curafoa, 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, r lb. of pounded ice, 1 sprig of green borage. Mode.—Put all the ingredients together: stir them, and serve the same as claret-cup, No. 2723. Should the above proportion of sugar not be found sufficient to suit some tastes, increase the quantity. When borage is not easily obtainable, substitute for it a few slices of cucumber. Seasonable.—Suitable for picnics, bails, weddings and other festive occasions. 2721.—CIDER CUP. Ingredients.—1 quart bottle of cider, 1 bottle of seltzer, £ a glass of brandy (or liqueur if preferred], r lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, borage or a few slices of cucumber. Mode.—Put the sugar into a jug with the lemon-rind and half the juice, pour over the brandy, then the cider, and set in ice. When the cup is sufficiently flavoured with the lemon peel, take it out and add the seltzer, then pour all into a glass jug in which has been put a few sprigs of borage. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable in summer.