1131 Plum Cake. cream, and make the milk warm ; and when the dough has risen, mix with it thoroughly all the above ingredients, and knead the cake well for a few minutes. Butter some cake-tins, half fill them, and stand them in a warm place, to allow the dough to rise again. When the tins are three- parts full, put the cakes into a good oven, and bake them from i| to 2 hours. A few currants might be substituted for the caraway seeds when the flavour of the latter is disliked. Time.—if to 2 hours. Average Cost, izd. Seasonable at any time. 2510.-POTATO CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of potato flour, £ lb. of butter, beaten to a cream, £ lb. of sugar (powdered), 2 eggs, or the whites of 4, 10 drops of essence of lemon. Mode.—Mix the ingredients and beat them thoroughly for 10 minutes, then pour into a cake-tin, and bake 15 minutes in a rather quick oven. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Seasonable at any time. 2511.—COMMON PLUM CAKE. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of flour, 6 oz. of butter or good dripping, 6 oz. of moi:t sugar, 6 oz. of raisins, £ oz. of pounded allspice, 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast, 1 pint of new milk. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, currants and allspice; warm the milk, stir in it the yeast, and mix the whole into a dough; knead it well, and put it into 6 buttered tins; place them near the fire for nearly an hour for the dough to rise, then bake the cakes in a good oven from 1 to ij hour. To ascertain when they are done, plunge a clean knife in the middle, and if on withdrawal it comes out clean, the cakes are done. Time.—1 to i£ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to make 6 small cakes. 2512.-A NICE PLUM CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, £ lb. of butter, £ lb. of sugar, £ lb. ot currants, £ lb. of plums, 4 oz. of candied peel, £ pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia, or carbonate o£ soda. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, currants and sliced candied peel; beat the butter to a cream, and mix all these ingredients together with the milk. Stir the ammonia into 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; add it to the dough, and beat the whole well, until everything PLUM CAKE WITH ALMONDS.