The Housekeeper. 22 The housekeeper’s room is generally made use of by the lady’s-maid, butler and valet, who take there their breakfast, tea and supper. The lady’s-maid will also use this apartment as a sitting-room, when not engaged with her lady, or with some other duties, which would call her elsewhere. In different establishments, according to their size and the rank of the family, different rules, of course, prevail. For instance, in the mansions of those of very high rank, and where there is a house-steward, there are two distinct tables kept, one in the steward’s room for the principal members of the household, the other in the servants’ hall, for the other domestics. At the steward's dinner-table, the steward and housekeeper preside ; and here, also, are present the lady’s-maid, butler, valet, and head-gardener. Should any visitors be staying with the family, their servants, generally the valet and lady's-maid, will be admitted to the steward's table. After Dinner, the housekeeper, having seen that all the members of the establishment have regularly returned to their various duties, and that all the departments of the household are in proper working order, will have many important matters claiming her attention. She will, possibly, have to give the finishing touch to some article of confectionery, or be occupied with some of the more elaborate processes of the still-room. There may also be the dessert to arrange, ice-creams to make; and all these employments call for no ordinary degree of care, taste and attention. The still-room was formerly much more in vogue than at present, for in days of “ auld lang syne" the still was in constant requisition for the supply of sweet-flavoured waters for the purposes of cookery, scents and aromatic substances used in the preparation of the toilet, and cordials in cases of accidents and illness. There are some establishments, however, in which distillation is still carried on, and in these, the still-room maid has her old duties to perform. In a general way, however, this domestic is immediately concerned with the housekeeper. For the latter she lights the fire, dusts her room, prepares the breakfast table, and waits at the differ- ent meals taken in the housekeeper’s room (see 50). A still-room maid may learn a very great deal of useful knowledge from her intimate connection with the housekeeper, and if she be active and intelligent, may soon fit herself for a better position in the household. 51. Evening Occupation.—In the evening, the housekeeper will often busy herself with the necessary preparations for the next day’s duties. Number- less small, but still important arrangements will have to be made, so that every- thing may move smoothly. At times, perhaps, attention will have to be paid to the breaking of lump-sugar, the stoning of raisins, the washing, cleansing, and drying of currants, &c. The evening, too, is the best time for setting right her account of the expenditure, and duly writing a statement of moneys received and paid, and also for making memoranda of any articles she may require for her store-room or other departments. Periodically, at some convenient time—for instance, quarterly or half-yearly—it is a good plan for the housekeeper to make an inventory of everything she has under her care, and compare this with the lists of a former period ; she will then be able to furnish a statement, if necessary, of the articles which, on account of time, breakage, loss, or other causes, it has been necessary to replace or replenish. 52. Responsibilities.—In concluding these remarks on the duties of the housekeeper, we will briefly refer to the very great responsibility which attaches to her position. Like “ Cmsar’s wife,” she should be “ above suspicion,” and her honesty and sobriety unquestionable ; for there are many temptations to which she is exposed. In a physical point of view, a housekeeper should be healthy and strong, and be particularly clean in her person, and her hands; although they may show a degree of roughness, from the nature of some of her employments, they yet should have a nice inviting appearance. In her dealings with the various tradesmen, and her behaviour to the domestics under her, the demeanour and conduct of the housekeeper should be such as, in neither case, to diminish, by an undue familiarity, her authority or influence. Note.—It will be useful for the mistress and housekeeper to know the best seasons for various occupations connected with Household Management; and we, accordingly, subjoin a few hints which we think will prove valuable.