1455 Number of Servants. thoroughly and well, a wise mistress will make some different arrangement by which the labour may be lightened. Work hurried is pretty nearly sure to be work ill done; and it| is a fact that cannot be too firmly impressed upon all, that time must be proportionate to labour, and that a fair amount of rest should be regular and certain. In large households with a full staff of servants it is comparatively easy to have order, regularity and comfort; but where there are but few, or it may be only one woman servant, then the mistress has much to think of and to do. We have known some people who, keeping only a general servant, yet expect her to cook like a cook, do housework like a housemaid, and dress and wait at table like a parlour-maid. This rara avis does exist, but where we see one we may feel pretty sure that she is helped considerably. There are not only so many ways in which we may assist our servants, there are twice as many in which we can save them labour, and in which we can show them how to save themselves. They for their own part having chosen their own way of earning their liveli- hood should be only too ready and willing to learn to rise in an honourable calling such as service is, and where their comfort and welfare is made the care of their mistress, it should surely be their pleasure as well as their duty to serve her and do her will to the best of their ability. 3221. The number of men-servants in a family varies according to the wealth and position of the master, from the owner of the ducal mansion with a retinue of attendants, at the head of which is the chamberlain and house- steward, to the occupier of the humbler house, where a single footman, or even the odd man-of-all-work, is the only male retainer. The majority of gentlemen’s establishments probably comprise a servant out of livery, or butler, a footman and coachman, or coachman and groom, where the horses exceed two or three. To a certain extent the number of men-servants kept is regulated by the number of women servants, this statement, of course, not applying to such out-door servants as coachman, groom, or gardener. Occasionally a parlour-maid is kept instead of a second fcctman, or a kitchen or scullery-maid does the work in the way of boot-cleaning, etc., that would fall to a third footman or page. A man cook is now more rarely to be found in private service than formerly, women having found it expedient to bring their knowledge of the culinary art more to the level of the chef \ while in many cases those who have a talent for cooking have risen superior to him both in the way they flavour and serve the various dishes that call for skill and taste. 3 B