1488 Women Servants’ Duties. servant is dressed, she takes in the tea, if it be served then, and after tea turns down the beds, sees that the water-jugs and bottles are full, closes the windows, and draws down the blinds. If the weather is very warm, these are usually left open until the last thing at night, to cool the rooms. 3295. The routine of a general servant’s duties depends upon the kind of situation she occupies ; but a systematic servant should so contrive to divide her work, that every day in the week may have its proper share. By this means she is able to keep the house clean with less fatigue to herself than if she left all the cleaning to do at the end of the week. Supposing there are five bed- rooms in the house, two sitting-rooms, kitchen, scul- lery, and the usual domestic offices :—on Monday she might thoroughly clean two of the bedrooms; on Tuesday, two more bedrooms; on Wednesday, the other bedroom and stairs ; on Thursday, the drawing- room ; on Friday morning she should sweep the dining- room very thoroughly, clean the hall, and in the after- noon her kitchen tins and bright utensils. By arrang- ing her work in this manner, no undue proportion will and she will then have this day for cleaning plate, cleaning her kitchen, and arranging everything in nice order. The regulai work must, of course, be performed in the usual manner, as we have endeavoured to describe. Before retiring to bed, she will do well to clean up plate, glasses, &c., which have been used for the evening meal, and prepare for her morning’s work by placing her wood near the fire on the hob to dry, taking care there is no danger of it igniting, before she leaves the kitchen for the night. Before retiring, she will have to lock and bolt the doors, unless the master undertakes this office himself. 3296. Home Washing.—If the washing, or even a portion of it, is done at home, it will be impossible for the general servant to do her household duties thoroughly during the time it is about, unless she have some assistance. Usually, if all the washing is done at home, the mistress hires someone to assist at the wash-tub, and sees to little matters herself, in the way of dusting, clearing away breakfast things, folding, starch- ing and ironing the fine things. With a little management much can be accomplished, pro- vided the mistress be industrious, energetic, and willing to lend a helping hand. Let washing-day or week be not the excuse for having everything in a muddle ; and although "things” cannot be cleaned so thoroughly, washing tub and board. and so much time spent upon them, as ordi- narily, yet the house may be kept tidy and clear from litter without a great deal 01 exertion, either on the part of the mistress or servant. We will conclude our remarks with an extract from an admirably-written book, called " Home Truths for Home Peace.” The authoress says, with respect to the great wash — “ Amongst all the occasions in which it is most difficult and glorious to keep muddle out of a family, the 1 great wash ’ stands pre-eminent; and as very little money is now saved by having everything done at home, many ladies, with the option of taking another servant or putting out the chief part of the washing, have thankfully adopted the latter course.” She goes on to say—“When a fall to Saturday’s share,