Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 173 Sufficient for 8 persons. soup, put in the vegetables, and thicken with flour and butter. If it is not coloured sufficiently add some browning. Add the wine and ketchup, pepper and salt to taste, and serve. Time.—i£ hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. 356 -HESSIAN SOUP. (TV.-Potage de T6te de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—Half an ox’s head, 1 pint of split peas, 8 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 potatoes, 6 onions, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste; 2 blades of mace, a little allspice, 4 cloves, the crumb of a French roll, 6 quarts of water. Mode.—Clean the head, rub it with salt and water, and soak it for five hours in warm water. Simmer it in the water till tender, put it into a pan and let it cool; skim off all the fat; take out the head, and add the vegetables cut up small, and the peas, which have been previously soaked ; simmer them, without the meat, till they are done enough to pulp through a sieve. Add the seasoning, with pieces of the meat cut up ; give one boil, and serve. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 16 persons. Note.—An excellent hash or ragout can be made by cutting up the nicest parts of the head, thickening and seasoning more highly a little of the soup, and adding a glass of port wine and 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup. 357.—HUNTER’S SOUP. (TV—Potage du Chasseur., Ingredients.—I carrot, 1 head of celery, 1 onion, 3 slices of lean ham or bacon, 2 oz. of butter, parsley, cayenne, pepper, salt, flour, 2 quarts of stock, No. 273, 1 pint of red wine, 3 partridges. Mode.—Slice the vegetables thinly, if the carrot is small use two or three, and cut up the ham, then fry all in the butter, dredging them with flour as they turn yellow. Let them colour a good light brown, then pour into the soup-kettle, add the stock and wine, and let the soup boil. Meantime, roast the partridges, basting them well with butter, then cut off the breasts in trim slices, and also the rest of the meat. Pound the bones in a mortar and add them to the soup. When the soup is suffici- ently cooked, strain it, season with pepper and salt, and let it get hot again but not boil. Put in the partridge meat for a few minutes, then send the tureen at once to table. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, exclusive of game, is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable October to February.