350 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Mode.—Cut up the meat and put it into a stewpan with all the in- gredients except the water ; set it over a slow fire to draw down, and, when the gravy ceases to flow from the meat, pour in the water. Let it boil up, then carefully take away all scum from the top. Cover the stew- pan closely, and let the stock simmer very gently for 4 hours, if rapidly boiled, the jelly will not be clear. When done, strain it through a fine sieve or flannel bag ; and when cold, the jelly should be quite trans- parent. If this is not the case, clarify it with the whites of eggs, as described in recipe No. 282. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, for this quantity, 5s. 774—SHRIMP SAUCE. (Fr —Sauce aux Crevettes.) (For Various Kinds of Fish.) Ingredients.—^ pint of melted butter, No. 676, £ pint of picked shrimps, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Make the melted butter very smoothly by recipe No. 676, shell the shrimps (sufficient to make £ pint when picked), and put them into the butter; season with cayenne, and let the sauce just simmer, but do not allow it to boil. When liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce may be added. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, 6d. per pint. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 775 —SPANISH SAUCE. (.FV.—Sauce Espagnole.) Ingredients.—6 lbs. of boned fillet of veal, 2 lbs. of gravy beef, 6 quarts of stock, No. 273, 1 lb. of butter, f lb. of flour, i oz. of salt, i oz. of mig- nonette pepper, 3 onions. Mode.—Take a large stewpan and line it with butter using a quarter of a pound, then add the onions sliced, and on them place the veal and beef, 1 pint of stock. Set the pan on a brisk fire till the stock is reduced one- half, turn the meat frequently, and simmer gently. The glaze must not be over cooked; if so the sauce will taste disagreeably sharp. Take the stew- pan off the fire when the meat is well glazed, cover it and do not touch it for 5 or 6 minutes ; this is that the glaze may dissolve quickly. Now pour in the 6 quarts of stock, bring it to boiling point, then simmer for 2 hours, adding the salt and pepper. When the meat is quite cooked, remove it and strain the stock through a cloth. Now put the flour and the remain- der of the butter into the saucepan, let it melt and mingle, then add the stock and stir with a wooden spoon. Simmer for two hours with the lid slightly raised and skim twice during the simmering and again before taking