9*7 Calf's Foot Jelly. 1958.—TO CLARIFY SYRUP FOR JELLIES. Ingredients.—To every quart of water allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar ; the white of 1 egg. Mode.—Put the sugar and water into a stewpan; set it on the fire, and, when the sugar is dissolved, add the white of the egg, whipped up with a little water Whisk the whole well together, and simmer very gently until it has thrown up all the scum. Take this off as it rises, strain the syrup through a fine sieve or cloth into a basin, and keep it for use. 1959 -CALF’S FOOT JELLY. Ingredients.—1 calf’s foot, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, i lemon, 2 eggs, a wine-glass of sherry, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Quarter the foot, and having washed it well, blanch it; then put it in a stewpan with rather more than a quart of cold water. Boil gently for 4 hours, skimming the while, then put the jelly into a basin to set, straining it into it through a hair sieve. Put the juice of the lemon through a strainer into a stewpan, slice in the peel cut thinly, the whites and shells of the eggs, the sugar and any flavouring desired. Should any grease have settled on the top of the stock, wipe it off with a cloth dipped in hot water, tnen put all the ingredients together and whisk well till they boil, then draw the pan to the side for a quarter of an hour. When a crust is seen strain through a jelly-bag and add the wine. Pour into a wet mould and set in a cold place. Time.—hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for quart mould. Seasonable at any time. i960.—HOW TO USE A JELLY-BAG. Mode.—Wring out a jelly-bag in hot water ; fasten it on to a stand, or the back of a chair; place it near the fire, with a basin underneath it, and run the jelly through it. Should it not be perfectly clear the first time, repeat the process until the desired brilliancy is obtained. Soak the moulds in water, drain them for half a second, pour in the jelly, and put it in a cool place to sef. If ice is at hand surround the moulds with it, and the jelly will set sooner, and be firmer when turned out. In summer it is necessary to have ice in which to put the moulds, or the cook will be, very likely, disappointed by her jellies being in too liquid a state to turn out properly, unless a great deal ot isinglass is used. When wanted for table, dip the moulds in hot water for a minute, wipe the outside with a cloth, lay a dish on the top of the mould, turn it quickly over, and the jelly should sap out easily. It is sometimes served broken into square lumps, ano piled high in glasses. Earthenware moulds are preferable to those of