Sheep's Head. 507 spoonfuls of flour, 2% quarts of water, £ lb. of fresh butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of flour, £ teaspoonful of pepper, a little grated nut- meg, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 gill of milk, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Have the feet cleaned, and the long bone extracted from them. Put the suet into a stewpan, with the onions and carrot sliced^ the bay-leaves, thyme, salt and pepper, and let these simmer for five minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of flour and the water, and keep stirring till it boils; then put in the feet. Let these simmer for three hours, or until perfectly tender; then take them out and lay themron a sieve. Mix together on a plate, with the back of a spoon, butter, salt, flour (one tablespoonful), pepper, nutmeg and lemon-juice as above, and put the feet, with a gill of milk, into a stewpan. When very hot, add the butter, &c., and stir continually till melted. Now mix the yolks of two eggs with five tablespoonfuls of milk : stir this to the other ingredients, keep moving the pan over the fire continually for a minute or two, but do not allow it to boil after the eggs are added. Serve in a very hot dish, and garnish with croutons, or sippets of toasted bread. Time.—3 hours. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. mo.—SQUAB PIE. (1Cornish Recipe.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of neck of mutton, 2 lbs. of apples, 1 lb. of onions, | lb. of good suet crust, mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper, sugar. Mode.—Trim the neck into neat chops, and season them highly with salt and pepper. Peel, core and slice the apples, peel and slice the onions. Lay the chops in a pie-dish, with the apples and onions on top, and add some sugar; cover with the paste, and bake three-quarters of an hour. When done, pour the gravy out at the side, skim off all fat, and add a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, then return it to the pie. Time.—i of an hour. Average Cost, 2s. 3 rf- Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. mi.—TO DRESS A SHEEP’S HEAD. (Fr.—Tete de Mouton.) Ingredients.—1 sheep’s head, sufficient water to cover it, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 or 3 parsnips, 3 onions, a small bunch of parsley, 1 teaspoon- ful of pepper, 3 teaspoonfuls of salt, £ lb. of Scotch oatmeal. M94©f-^Clean the head well, and let it soak in warm water for two