986 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces- 2126.-APPLE JELLY. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—Apples, water; to every pint of juice allow £ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and cut the apples into pieces, remove the cores, and put them in a preserving-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them boil for an hour; then drain the syrup from them through a hair sieve or jelly-bag, and measure the juice ; to every pint allow three- quarters of a lb. of loaf sugar, and boil these together for three-quarters of an hour, removing every particle of scum as it rises, and keeping the jelly well stirred, that it may not burn. A little lemon-rind may be boiled with the apples, and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice may be put in the jelly just before it is done, when the flavour is liked. This jelly may be ornamented with preserved greengages, or any other preserved fruit, and will turn out very prettily for dessert. It should be stored away in small pots. Time.—1 hour to boil the fruit and water; f hour to boil the juice with the sugar. Average Cost, for 6 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in proportion, 2s. gd. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. Seasonable.—Make this in September, October, or November. 2127.—TO PRESERVE APPLES IN QUARTERS. (In Imitation of Ginger.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of apples allow f lb. of sugar, i| oz. of the best white ginger ; 1 oz. of ginger to every | pint of water. Mode.—Peel, core, and quarter the apples, and put the fruit, sugar, and ginger in layers into a wide-mouthed jar, and let them remain for 2 days ; then infuse 1 oz. of ginger in half a pint of boiling water and cover it closely, and let it remain for 1 day ; this quantity of ginger and water is for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in proportion. Put the apples, &c., into a preserving-pan with the water strained from the ginger, and boil till the apples look clear and the syrup is rich, which will be in about an hour. The rind of a lemon may be added just before the apples have finished boiling ; and great care must be taken not to break the pieces of apple in putting them into the jars. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Time.—2 days for the apples to remain in the jar with sugar, &c.; 1 day to infuse the ginger; about 1 hour to boil the apples. Average Cost, for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in proportion, 2s. Sufficient.—3 lbs. should fill 3 moderate-sized jars. Seasonable.—Make this in September, October, or November.