I472 Women Servants' Duties. by the hand or a soft brush, or re-curled with a blunt knife, dipped in very hot water. The Chausserie, or foot-gear of a lady, is one of the few things left to mark her station, and requires special care. Satin boots or shoes should be dusted with a soft brush, or wiped with a cloth. Kid or varnished leather should have the mud wiped off with a sponge charged with milk, which preserves its softness and polish. Furs, feathers and woollens require the constant care of the waiting-maid. Furs and feathers not in constant use should be wrapped up in linen washed in lye. From May to September they are subject to being made the depositary of the moth-eggs. They should be looked to and shaken and beaten, from time to time, in case some of the eggs should have been lodged in them, in spite of every precaution ; laying them up again, or rather folding them up as before, wrapping them in brown paper, which is itself a preservative. Shawls and cloaks, which would be damaged by such close folds, must be looked to and aired and beaten, putting them away dry before the evening. Riding habits should, if much splashed, have the skirt end put into a pail of water ; it should be hung up to dry, and then carefully brushed. These various preliminary offices performed, the lady's-maid has her breakfast and is in readiness to dress her mistress when rung for. The details of dressing we need not touch upon—- every lady has her own mode of doing so ; but the maid should move about quietly, perform any offices about her mistress’s person, as lacing stays, gently, and adjust them smoothly. Hairdressing is one of the most important parts of the lady’s-maid’s office. 3261. Lessons in hairdressing may be obtained, and at not an un- reasonable charge. If a lady’s-maid can afford it, we would advise her to initiate herself in the mysteries of hairdressing before entering on her duties. If a mistress finds her maid handy, and willing to learn, she will not mind the expense of a few lessons, which are almost necessary, as the fashion and mode of dressing the hair is continually changing. Brushes and combs should be kept scrupulously clean, by washing them about twice a week ; to do this oftener spoils th» brushes, as very frequent washing makes them so very soft. 3262. Daily Duties.—Having dressed her mis- tress for breakfast, the further duties of the lady’s-maid will depend altogether upon the habits of the family, in which hardly two will probably agree. Where the duties are entirely confined to attendance on her mis- tress, it is probable that the bedroom and dressing-room will be committed to her care; that the housemaid will the lady’s-maid. rarely enter, except for the weekly or other periodical cleaning; she will, therefore, have to make her mistress’s bed, and keep it in order; and as her duties are light and easy, there can be no allowance made for the slightest approach to uncleanliness or want of order. Every morning, immediately after her mistress has left it, and while breakfast is on, she should throw the bed open, by taking off the clothes ; open the windows (except in rainy weather), and leave the room to air for half an hour. After breakfast, except her attendance on her mistress prevents it, if the rooms are carpeted, she should sweep them carefully, having previously strewed the room with moist tea-leaves, dusting every table and chair, taking care to penetrate to every corner, and moving every article of furniture that is portable. This done satisfactorily, and having cleaned the dressing-glass, polished up the furniture and the ornaments, and made the glass jug and basin clean and bright, emptied