151 Vegetable Soups. provision for the wants of man. It grows wild in the Indian seas, and in the Eastern parts of e Asia; and thence it has been introduced into every part of the tropical regions. To the natives of tho: e climates, its bark sup- plies the material for erecting their dwell- ings ; its leaves, the means of roofing them; and the leaf-stalks, a kind of gauze for covering their windows, or protecting the baby in the cradle. It is also made into lanterns, masks to screen the face from the heat of the sun, baskets, wicker work, and even a kind of paper for writing on. Combs, brooms, torches, ropes, matting, and sail- cloth are made o( its fibres. With these, too, beds are made and cushions stuffed. Oars are supplied by the leaves; drinking cups, spoons, and other domestic utensils by the shells of the nuts; milk by its juice, of which, also, a kind of honey and sugar are prepared. When fermented, it furnishes the means of intoxication ; and when the fibres are burned, their ashes supply an alkali for making soap. The buds of the tree bear a striking resemblance to cabbage when boiled; but when they are cropped, COCOA-NUT PALM. the tree dies. In a fresh state, the kernel is eaten raw, and its juice is a most agreeable and refreshing beverage. When the nut is im- ported to this country, its fruit is, in general, comparatively dry, and is considered indigestible. The tree is one of the least productive of the palm tribe. NUT AND BLOSSOM. 303.—CUCUMBER SOUP. (F/.—Potage aux Concombres.) Ingredients.—1 large cucumber, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a little chervil and sorrel, cut in large pieces, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill of cream, 1 quart of medium stock, No. 273. Mode.—Pare the cucumber, quarter it, and take out the seeds; cut it in thin slices, put these on a plate with a little salt, to draw the water from them; drain, and put them in your stewpan with the butter When they are warmed through, without being browned, pour the stock on them. Add the sorrel, chervil and seasoning, and boil for 40 minutes. Mix the well-beaten yolks of the eggs with the cream, which add at the moment of serving. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. per quart. Seasonable from June to September. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Cucumber.—The antiquity of this fruit is very great. In the sacred writings we find that the people of Israel regretted it, whilst sojourning in the desert; and at the present time, the cucumber, and other fruits of its class, form a large portion of the food of the Egyptian people. By the Eastern nations generally, as well as by the Greeks and Romans, it was greatly esteeme . Like the melon, it was originally brought from Asia by the Romans, and m the 14th century it as common in England, although, in the time of the wars ot “ the Roses, it seems no longer to ** -• - ’ r '■rt' —'*■ j:—* mm As a preserved have been cultivated. It is a cold food, and of difficult digestion when eaten raw. sweetmeat, however, it is esteemed one of the most agreeable,