46 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. 84. Crabtree's Patent Kitchener.— For those, however, who can afford to purchase a more expensive range, the Patent Kitchener, manufactured by the same firm will be found to be more complete in character, and therefore more efficient. Although it is to be regarded as a range rather than a kitchener, according to the definition of a kitchener as given above, there is no occasion to take exception to the name which the manufacturers have assigned to it, seeing that it combines efficiency with economy, the points which are most desirable in any apparatus or appli- ance for cooking. It is fitted, as may be seen from the accompanying third illustration given, with a baking oven, a roasting oven, a hot closet, gas stove, continuous plate rack, hot plate, automatic cinder sifter, and ash-pit; the lining is of fire-brick, the fire may be kept close or open at pleasure, combustion is slow and complete, and slack may be burnt in the grate. Its economy is shown by the fact that it yields a maximum of heat with a minimum of ashes • and that there is throughout the range a general freedom of dirt, the large cleaning doors promoting thorough and easy clearance of the flues, and therefore com- plete efficiency when in use for culinary operations. The following are the sizes in which the Patent Kitchener is made, and the prices at which they are sold : First Size. Second Size. Third Size. Inches. Inches. Inches. Total width of Kitchener 48 54 60 Baking Oven 16x21 18x21 20X23 Roasting Oven 14 x 16 i6x 16 18 x 16 Fire 8 10 12 Hot Plate 27x14 31x14 35x16 Prices £15 os. 0 d. £18 os. ad. £21 os. 0 d. Wrought Iron Bath Boiler, extra £1 ys. 6 d. £1 12s. 6 d. £1 17s. 6rf. The particulars given below, relating to the construction, economy, and effi- ciency of this Patent Kitchener will prove of interest. ( i.) Capacity.—This kitchener combines more appliances with greater efficiency and at less cost, it is said, than any other kitchener extant. It will bake twenty eight pounds of bread, roast twenty pounds of meat, and boil half a dozen sauce- pans at the same time, and also supply plenty of hot water for either bath or lavatory. ( 2.) Fireplace.—The fireplace, or fire-box, consists of fire-brick bottom, back and side, with a front of thin bars placed comparatively close together, sloping inwards and downwards to the fire, to prevent the fire falling out, and at the same time affording a good view of the fire when looking at it in front. (3.) The Ash-pan.—Below the fireplace is an ash-pan provided with two drawers. The upper one has a sloping grating for its bottom, which receives and