Recipes for the Housemaid. 1525 3405,—TO PRESERVE CUT FLOWERS. A bouquet of freshly-cut flowers may be preserved alive for a long time by placing them in a glass or vase with fresh water, in which a little charcoal has been steeped, or a small piece of camphor dissolved. The vase should be set upon a plate or dish, and covered with a bell glass, around the edges of which, when it comes in contact with the plate, a little water should be poured to exclude the air. 3406.—TO REVIVE CUT FLOWERS AFTER PACKING. Plunge the stems into boiling water, and by the time the water is cold, the flowers will have revived. Then cut afresh the ends of the stems, and keep them in fresh cold water. RECIPES FOR THE HOUSEMAID AND GENERAL SERVANT. 3407.-HOW TO SWEEP A CARPET. It is not an easy matter to sweep well, at any rate, if we may judge by experience; for when a broom is put into the hands of the uninitiated, more harm than good generally results from the use of it. Without the greatest care and some little knowledge, furniture and paint, by being knocked about with the broom, may soon receive an irreparable amount of damage. Before sweeping rooms, the floors should be strewed with a good amount of dry tea-leaves, which should be saved for the purpose ; these will attract the dust and save much harm to other furniture, which, as far as possible, should be covered up during the process. Tea-leaves also may be used with advantage upon druggets and short-piled carpets. Light sweeping and soft brooms are here desirable. Many a carpet is prematurely worn out by injudicious sweeping. Stiff carpet brooms and the stout arms of inexperienced servants are their destruction. In sweeping thick-piled carpets, such as Axminster and Turkey carpets, the servant should be instructed to brush always the way of the pile : by so doing they may be kept clean for years; but if the broom is used in,a different way, all the dust will enter the carpet and soon spoil it. 3408.-TO LAY DOWN CARPETS. Great care is required in laying down a new carpet. This can hardly be well done without the aid of a proper carpet-fork or stretcher, which may be purchased for about as. Grf. at any ironmonger’s, and which will be