Preserved and Tinned Meat. 556 exclude the air. Sardines, pilchards, and herrings are eaten more as relishes than in the place of solid food. The best are preserved in olive oil, but cotton seed oil often replaces it. The commoner kinds of fish are so cheap and so plentiful in England that it is not worth while, though it would be possible, to tin them ; we usually find in this form only salmon, lobster, oysters, and prawns—the delicacies among fish ; the three former are eaten in immense quantities by all classes of the population. Prawns may be successfully served in many ways, but they are always costly, and except for garnishing their worth does not come up to their reputation. For the familiar preparation of curried prawns the contents of a tin serve well. Tinned fish varies in quality as fresh fish varies. Whether one gets a young salmon or an old one, a good lobster or a tough one depends upon chance. But the average is good, and for such dishes as lobster puree and salad, salmon or lobster cutlets and oyster sauce, they are most useful. It is unnecessary to pretend that the tins are as good as the fresh fish. Everyone who has money and opportunity to procure fresh fish will do so. But there remains the majority to whom economy is a necessity, and for whom the choice lies between tinned lobster or salmon or oysters, and none. If the majority are of our opinion they will use the tins. 1234. Methods of Preserving Meat.— There are other means of pre- serving meat than by tinning it, and if the imports of tins do not increase that is not because we are growing more of our meat at home. Ten years ago it was said that four per cent, of our country supply and twenty per cent, of the London supply came from abroad, and the quantity was annually increasing then, and is increasing still. We keep on importing less live stock, less salt beef and tinned meats, and more fresh meat. Much of the fresh meat is spoken of as “ frozen ” meat, and it is actually frozen as hard as a board directly it is killed, and in that state carried to the coast and put on board ships fitted with refrigerating cham- bers, where the air is always kept several degrees below freezing point. No meat nor anything else can putrify without some air, some moisture, and a certain de- gree of heat. From the tins all the air is excluded, and so whatever the tem- perature of the tin after once it is sealed the meat remains sweet. It may be carried to the Tropics, or stand in the hottest cupboard in the house, and it is all the same. The New Zealand meat is preserved on quite another principle. A few years ago the body of an animal dead many years was found by some Arctic explorers buried in the ice, but though it had lain there so long it was as well preserved as though it had only died the day before. We all know the preserva- tive action of ice as used by the fishmongers. The meat is stored in cold air chambers in the ships, and on its arrival in England it is transferred to similar store-houses on land. So long as the heat does not rise above a certain point it is preserved, but, like the fish taken from the slab of ice. it very soon goes bad at the ordinary temperature. This method of preserving meat is merely a larger application of the common practice of storing meat in an ice-chamber or refrigerator. 1235. Dried Meat.—Both animal and vegetable food is preserved by drying. Fish is constantly smoked and dried, and thus prepared it forms a large part of the food of our town poar. Beef and other meat is cut in slices and dried in the sun and wind in countries where sun heat is more powerful than here. Pemmican is dried meat reduced to powder and mixed with fat, but even that is less used than heretofore, and in general, drying as a means of preserving meat may be said to have been superseded by more modern methods. 1236. Salt Meat.—Salt and saltpetre are the antiseptics most commonly used in the preservation of food, and their use for this purpose dates from long