gg8 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. place them on a dish near the fire, to get thoroughly dry, but not too near to shrivel the leaves; dip them into oiled butter; sprinkle over them some coarsely-powdered sugar, and dry them before the fire. They should be kept in a dry place, as the least damp would spoil their appearance. Time.—About io minutes to dry before the fire. Seasonable.—These may be made at any time ; but are more suitable for winter garnishes, when fresh flowers are not easily obtained. 2156.—TO PRESERVE GREEN GINGER. Ingredients.—Green ginger, sugar, water. Mode.—Put the ginger regularly every night and morning into fresh boiling water for a fortnight. Remove the outside skin with a sharp knife, boil it in water till it is quite soft, and slice it in thin slices. Make ready a syrup of 1 lb. of loaf sugar to half a pint of water, clarify it, and put the ginger in it. Boil till it is clear. Time.—14 days. Average Cost, is. per lb. Seasonable at any time. 2157.—MOCK GINGER. Ingredients.—Young carrots, sugar, ginger, lemon-peel, cayenne pepper. Mode.—Boil small, tender carrots, scrape them till free of all spots, and cut out the heart or middle portion. Steep them for several days in frequently-changed water, until the flavour of the carrot has been com- pletely destroyed. Allow one quart of water to every pound of prepared carrot, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of whole ginger, and the thin peel of a lemon. Boil for a quarter of an hour daily till the carrots are transpa- rent ; when done, add sufficient red pepper to render the preserve as hot as it is required. Time.—6 or 7 days. Average Cost, gd. per lb. Seasonable.—Make this in spring. 2158.-BOTTLED GOOSEBERRIES FOR PASTRY. Ingredients.—Unripe gooseberries, water. Mode.—Cut off the green leaves, &c., of some gooseberries which have not attained their full growth, and put them into wide-necked bottles which have been well washed and dried. Cork them loosely, put them in a pan of cold water, which bring to boil very gradually. Leave the gooseberries to simmer until they have a shrunken appearance, then take the bottles out. If they are not full, take the contents of one bottle to fill up the rest, and pour sufficient boiling water into the bottles to cover the gooseberries. Cork the bottles closely, and tie a bladder over