Custard Pudding. 835 1759.—CUSTARD PIE. Ingredients.—1 quart of new milk, 12 peach leaves, or rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 3 eggs, sugar to taste, puff-paste. Mode.—Put the milk and flavouring into a saucepan on the fire, and let it infuse till it tastes strongly, then strain, return to the pan and draw it to the side of the fire, where it may still boil gently. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, then stir it into the saucepan, stir for 1 minute, then remove from the fire and let it cool, after which add the sugar and well-beaten eggs. Line deep dishes with puff-paste, pour in the mixture and bake for 20 minutes in a quick oven. Time.—£ to £ hour. Average Cost, 8d„ without the paste. Sufficient for 2 pies. Seasonable at any time. 1760.-BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. Ingredients.—irj pint of milk, the rind of | lemon, £ lb. of moist sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar and lemon rind, and let this infuse for about half an hour, or until the milk is well flavoured ; whisk the eggs, yolks and whites ; pour the milk to them, stirring all the while; then have ready a pie-dish, lined at the edge with paste ready baked ; strain the custard into the dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top and bake in a very slow oven for about half an hour, or rather longer. The flavour of this pudding may be varied by substituting bitter almonds for the lemon-rind ; and it may be very much enriched by using half cream and half milk, and doubling the quantity of eggs. Time.—k to $ hour. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This pudding is usually served cold with fruit tarts. 1761.—BOILED CUSTARD PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 4 eggs, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Flavour the milk by infusing in it a little lemon-rind or cinna- mon ; whisk the eggs, stir the flour gradually to these, and pour over them the milk, and stir the mixture well. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it; put in the custard, and tie a floured cloth over; plunge it into boiling water, and turn it about for a few minutes, to prevent the flour from settling in one cart. Boil it slowlv for half an hour; turn it out of the