846 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry- Mode.—Peel, core and cut the apples into quarters, and simmer them over the fire until soft; then mix with them the apricot-jam and the sugar, on which the rind of the orange should be previously rubbed ; work all these ingredients through a sieve, and put them into the freezing-pot. Stone the raisins, and simmer them in a little syrup for a few minutes; add these, with the sliced citron, the almonds cut in dice, and the cherries drained from their syrup, to the ingredients in the freezing-pot; put in the Curaijoa and Maras- chino, and freeze again ; add as much whipped cream as will be required, freeze again, and fill the mould. Put the lid on, and plunge the mould into the ice-pot; cover it with a wet cloth and pounded ice and saltpetre, where it should remain until wanted for table. Turn the pudding out of the mould onto a clean and neatly folded napkin, and serve as sauce a little iced whipped cream, in a sauce-tureen or glass dish. Time.—i hour to freeze the mixture. ice-pestle. Seasonable from August to March. FREEZING-PAIL. Method of Working the Freezing Apparatus.—Put into the outer pail some pounded ice, upon which strew some saltpetre ; then fix the pewter freezing- pot upon this, and surround it entirely with ice and saltpetre. Wipe the cover and edges of the pot, pour in the preparation, and close the lid ; a quarter of an hour after, begin turning the freezing-pan from right to left, and when the mixture begins to be firm round the sides of the pot, stir it about with the slice or spattle, that the preparation may be equally congealed. Close the lid again, keep working from right to left, and, from time to time, remove the mixture from the sides, that it may be smooth ; and when perfectly frozen, it is ready to put in the mould ; the mould should then be placed in the ice again, where it should remain until wanted for table. 1790— ROLY POLY JAM PUDDING. Ingredients.—I lb. of suet-crust, No. 1684, \ lb. of any kind of jam. Mode,—Make a nice light suet-crust by recipe No. 1684, and roll it out to the thickness of about halfan inch. Spread thejam equally over it, leaving a small margin of paste without any, where the pudding joins. Roll it up, fasten the ends securely, and tie it in a floured cloth; put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two hours. Mincemeat or marmalade may be substituted for thejam, and makes excellent puddings. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 9 A Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for winter puddings, when fresh fruit is not ootainable.