I0l8 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. 2204.—RASPBERRY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of raspberries allow 1 lb. of sugar, \ pint of red-currant juice. Mode.—Let the fruit for this preserve be gathered in fine weather, and used as soon after it is picked as possible. Take off the stalks, put the raspberries into a preserving-pan, break them well with a wooden spoon and let them boil for a quarter of an hour, keeping them well stirred. Then add the currant-juice and sugar, and boil again for half an hour. Skim the jam well after the sugar is added, or the preserve will not be clear. The addition of the currant-juice is a very great improve- ment to this preserve, as it gives it a piquant taste, which the flavour of the raspberries seems to require. Time.—£ hour to simmer the fruit without the sugar; £ hour after it is added. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow about 1 pint of fruit to fill a x-lb. pot. Seasonable in July and August. 2205.—RASPBERRY JELLY. Ingredients.—To each pint of juice allow $ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Let the raspberries be freshly gathered, quite ripe, and picked from the stalks; put them into a large jar, after breaking the fruit a little with a wooden spoon, and place the jar, covered, in a saucepan of boiling water. When the juice is well drawn, which will be in from three-quarters to one hour, strain the fruit through a fine hair sieve or cloth; measure the juice, and to every pint allow the above proportion of loaf sugar. Put the juice and sugar into a preserving-pan, place it over the fire, and boil gently until the jelly thickens upon a little being poured on a plate; carefully remove all the scum as it rises, pour the jelly into small pots, cover down, and keep in a dry place. This jelly answers for making raspberry cream, and for flavouring various sweet dishes, when, in winter, the fresh fruit is not obtainable. Time.—£ to 1 hour to draw the juice. Average Cost, from 9d. to is. per lb. pot. Sufficient. —From 3 pints to 2 quarts of fruit should yield 1 pint of juice. Seasonable.—This should be made in July or August. 2206.—RHUBARB JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of rhubarb allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the rind of £ a lemon. Mode.—Wipe the rhubarb perfectly dry, take off the string or peel, and weigh it; put it into a preserving-pan, with sugar in the above pro-