62 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. sizes, known as No. i, No. 2, No. 3, No. 4, sold respectively at 3s., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., and 5s. 6d. 106. Steamers.—These articles consist of a cylinder of tin, tinned iron, or copper, made to fit into the top of a saucepan and to carry the saucepan cover as its own. The lower, or saucepan portion varies in capacity from 6 to 14 pints, and the entire appliance is sold at from 4s. 6d. to ys. 3d., according to size. Larger kinds, containing from 6 to 12 quarts, may also be obtained. Steamers are chiefly used in cooking potatoes. When the potatoes are just done, the water in the saucepan should be poured off and the steamer replaced. The heat from the saucepan below quickly causes the moisture remaining in the potatoes and the steamer itself to evaporate, thus converting the latter into a dry hot closet, in which the cooking of the potatoes is completed. Even when boiled, potatoes, like rice, should have the water drained off, and the cooking should be completed this way. An illustration o< an iron saucepan and steamer is shown in page 59. 107. The Turbot Kettle ancl Salmon Kettle.—This variety of fish- kettle is arranged to suit the shape of the fish from which it takes its name. It is shallow, very broad, and is fitted inside with a drainer the same as other fish- kettles. Turbot-kettles are usually supplied in three sizes, known as small, middle and large. These sizes, in block-tin, strong, are supplied at 155., 20s. and 25s. Copper turbot kettles, of improved shape, with covers and draining plates, are supplied in various sizes, ranging in length from 20 to 24 inches, and in price from £3 15s. to £5 10s. The salmon kettle is a long, narrow utensil, like the fish kettle, but the cover has a handle at each end instead of one only in the middle. They are made in copper, with draining plates, in sizes from 20 inches to 30 inches in length, and are sold at prices ranging from £3 55. to £6, accord- ing to size. Illustrations of the turbot-kettle and salmon-kettle are given in page 59. 108. The Fish Fan, or Kettle.—This utensil is fitted with a drainer inside, which is pulled up when the fish is sufficiently cooked. The drainer is then laid across the kettle, and the fish lifted on to the dish with the fish-slice— a perforated plate attached to a long handle, sold at 15., is. 3d. and is. 6d., accord- ing to size. Fish kettles are longer than they are wide, and are made either as shown in the illustration given in page 59, with handles at the side, or with a swing handle, like that of a pail. The former is the more convenient shape, on account of the facility which the two handles at the ends afford for putting the kettle on the range or taking it off. Prices range from 4s. 6d. to 9s. for kettles in strong block-tin plate, and from 18s. to 42s., planished. Copper fish-kettles, from 16" to 22 inches, are supplied at prices ranging from 45s. to 85s. The mackerel-kettle, or saucepan, which will serve as a fish-kettle for all long fish, such as whiting, haddock, &c., and for soles and small plaice, is an elongated saucepan, with cover, and having a long handle on one side and an iron looped handle opposite to it on the other side. It is made in three sizes, sold respec- tively at 4s., 5s. and 6s. 109. Fish Fryer and Drainer.—An admirable contrivance for frying fish, by using which an experienced cook is much more likely to insure success and send a dish of fried fish properly to table. It is in shape not unlike a pre- serving-pan fitted with a closely-made wire drainer ; and in this the fish is placed and lowered into the boiling fat. As in frying fish it is necessary to have a large body of fat, the depth of this kettle gives it a considerable superiority over the ordinary frying-pan. There is, besides, very little danger of the fish breaking, for being lifted up on the drainer when done, it is easily dished. Cooked in this manner the fish does not require turning, as the fat quite covers it, and of course browns it on both sides at once. The greasy moisture, too, is more effectually got