Sauerbraten. I2gi 2934.—BAKED SADDLE OF LAMB. Ingredients.—Saddle of young lamb, shalots, marjoram, rosemary, 2 or 3 bay leaves, cloves, 4 or 5 juniper berries, pepper, salt, lardoons, \ pint of vinegar, £ pint of claret. Mode.—Skin the saddle and rub it thoroughly inside and out with the following mixture :—Shalots, marjoram, rosemary, 2 or 3 bay leaves, all chopped fine together, cloves, pepper, and 4 or 5 crushed juniper berries. Put the saddle in an earthenware pan, pour over it half a pint of vinegar and half a pint of claret, and let it remain 4 days in this liquor, frequently turning it. Then lard it, and bake it in an earthenware pan, carefully basting it and adding a little salt, for 1 to i£ hour. Time.—1 to i£ hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from April till September. 2935.-SAUERBRATEN. [Sour Roast.) Ingredients.—5 to 6 lbs. of the inside fillet of the sirloin or of the rump of good fat beef, 1 quart of beer vinegar or mild vinegar, 4 bay leaves, 2 nutmegs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of suet, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, salt, pepper, ground cloves, 2 small carrots, 3 or 4 good-sized onions, a piece of the crust of brown bread, and a small cupful of fresh cream. Mode.—Wash the meat, lay it in the vinegar boiled with the bay leaves and grated nutmegs ; keep in a cool place for 3 to 4 days in summer, and 8 to 10 in winter, frequently turning it with a wooden fork. Before cook- ing, lard with lardoons dipped in a mixture of salt, pepper and ground cloves. Scatter a little salt over the meat, and brown in a stewpan with the butter and suet, adding the flour. When a golden brown, pour in sideways sufficient boiling water to cover the meat. Cover up the pot, and in a few minutes add the carrots, onions and brown bread. Cover the pot again, weighting the cover, and let the whole simmer for 2 to 2\ hours, adding the cream half an hour before serving. Take out the meat,, put it in a hot plate in the oven, whilst the gravy is prepared. Thicken the gravy with flour, or thin with water or milk if too sour, according to necessity; pass through a sieve, bring to a boil, pour a little over the meat, and serve the rest up in a sauce-boat. Time.—z\ to z\ hours. Average Cost. is. 4d. per lb- Sufficient for 10 persons. Seasonable at any time. SAUERBRATEN1.