Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 10d. 2481-GENOESE CAKE. 1120 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. Seasonable at any time. FRUIT CAKE. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 6 oz. of butter, £ lb. of flour, £ lb. of loaf sugar, Seasonable at any time. place it in a warm place to rise. When it has risen sufficiently, work the butter and eggs with the remaining flour into it and knead it twice with the hands, adding another egg if it is too stiff. Stone and cut up the raisins, add the currants and sugar, mix all the ingredients well together with the sponge; add the leaven, put into a well-buttered tin mould, and let the whole stand for an hour or two to rise. When well risen, bake in a moderate oven for an hour or an hour and a quarter. Time.—1£ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 2480.—FRUIT CAKE. Ingredients.—Butter, flour, currants, candied peel and sugar, each £ lb., 1 nutmeg, a few chopped almonds, the juice and rind of a lemon, 4 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, add the eggs, one by one, and then the other ingredients ; bake in a papered tin. The oven must not be fierce. apricot jam, chocolate or any other icing. Mode.—Slightly warm the butter till it is easy to beat with a wooden or silver spoon, then add the sugar pounded, and beat to a cream; next the eggs, one by one, and lastly the flour, beating all the time. Pour the mix- ture on to a buttered baking tin, and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. When cool, spread the cake thinly with apricot or any other jam, coat it with the icing, and put it in a hot oven for a minute or two. Time.—12 minutes to bake the cake. Average Cost, is. 6d. 2482.-GENOESE CAKE. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—A stale sponge cake or loaf, 2 kinds of preserve, one rather acid, the other sweet, such as red-currant jelly and apricot jam, the whites of 4 eggs, | lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lemon. Mode.—Cut the cake into rounds and spread them with the two preserves in alternate layers, and put the rounds together again. Make an icing of the sugar and white of egg as directed in recipe No. 2432, spread it over the cake, and set it for a few minutes to harden in a cool oven. Average Cost, 2s.