Pleurisy. I591 thirteen years. Bad air, insufficient or unnourishing food, exposure to cold, want of sufficient clothing, all increase the unhealthy tendencies which go to produce the disease. Symptoms.— Loss of appetite and spirits, child not caring to join others in play, constipation, gradual wasting of the body, drowsiness, squinting of the eyes, vomiting, enlarged and glassy look of pupils. Treatment.—Keep the child quiet in a dark room and give milk as food. The one medicine which the writer has found of benefit in this disease is iodide of potassium given in doses of two grains every four hours to children from two years up. It is needless to say that medical assistance should be procured as speedily as possible. 3565. Peritonitis.— Inflammation of the membrane called the peritoneum, which lines the abdominal cavity, is usually caused by diseases or wounds of the abdomen, but in the opinion of many may also result from cold. Symptoms.—Severe pain is complained of, increased by pressure; the knees are generally drawn up and the patient lies on his back, the abdomen is puffed up, there is obstinate constipation, sometimes continued vomiting. Treatment.—Keep the patient at rest in bed ; do not give purgatives and do not be uneasy because the bowels are constipated. Opium is generally the medicine resorted to in the treatment of this disease. It may be given in the form of the solution of the muriate of morphia in doses proportioned to the patient s age. When the patient is convalescent great care must be exercised regarding his food, and only bland, unirritating substances, such as milk, beef-tea, beat-up eggs, &c., given. 3566. Pleurisy,— This is an inflammation of the pleura or serous membrane which covers the lungs and lines the greater part of the cavity of the chest. It is generally brought on by exposure to cold and wet, but may be the result of an accident in which the ribs are broken. Symptoms.—Severe catching pain in the affected side, made worse by breathing deeply or coughing. The pain is usually confined to one spot, and, if the ear be placed against the side, a fine, rubbing sound will be heard, which goes by the name of friction, and resembles that produced by rubbing a lock of hair between the finger and thumb. The pulse is quick, the tongue is coated ; there is thirst and loss of appetite, and the temperature is raised. In a day or two the breathing becomes worse owing to fluid being infused into the pleural cavity and pressing upon the lungs; this fluid after a time becomes absorbed, when the breathing grows easier. Treatment.—Place the patient in bed without delay, in a room, the atmosphere of which is kept moist by boiling some water in a kettle on the fire, and allowing the steam to pass into it, and whose temperature should not be under 6o° Fahr. 63° or 64° would be better. He should be kept as free from talking as possible. Linseed meal poultices may be applied to the chest, and milk, beef-tea, broth and such like should be given in the early stage, and later, when the fever has passed away, light puddings, eggs, white fish, &c. During recovery, cold and damp must be carefully avoided. 3567. Pneumonia.—This is an inflammation of the lung substance proper. It generally is ushered in with a rigor which is often very severe; in children convulsions may take the place of the rigor. The temperature rises and may reach 104° or 105° Fahr. There is pain and loss of appetite; the face is flushed, breathing is rapid, and there is a short, hacking cough ; the matter expectorated is tenacious and rusty-coloured. Treatment.—Keep the temperature of the room at about 65° Fahr., or rather higher, but not lower, if it can be avoided. Support the shoulders well with