617 Fowl Pillau. 1306. MAYONNAISE OF FOWL. (Fr.—Poulet a la Mayonnaise.) Ingredients.—A cold roast fowl, Mayonnaise sauce, No 734,4015 young lettuces, 4 hard-boiled eggs, a few watercresses, endive. Mode. —Cut the fowl into neat joints, lay them in a deep dish, piling them high in the centre, sauce the fowl with Mayonnaise made by re- cipe No. 734, and garnish the dish with young lettuces cut in halves, watercresses, endive and hard-boiled eggs ; these may be sliced in rings, or laid on the dish whole, cutting off at the bottom a piece of the white, to make the egg stand. All kinds of cold meat and solid fish may be dressed k la Mayonnaise, and make excellent luncheon or supper dishes- The sauce should not be poured over the fowls until the moment of serving. Should a very large Mayonnaise be required, use two fowls in- stead of one, with an equal proportion of the remaining ingredients. Average Cost, with one fowl, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Seasonable from April to September. Black Spanish.—The real Spanish fowl is recognised by its uniformly black colour, burnished with tints of green ; its peculiar white face, and the large development of its comb and wattle The hens are excellent layers, and their eggs are of a very large size. They are, however, bad nurses; consequently, their eggs should be laid in the nest of other varieties to be hatched. “ In purchasing Spanish,” says an authority, “ blue legs, the entire absence of white or coloured feathers in the plumage, and a large white face, with a very large high comb, which should be erect in the cock, though pendent in the hens, should be insisted on.” The flesh of this fowl is esteemed, but, from the smallness of its body when compared with that of the Dorking, it is not placed on an equality with it for the table. Other- wise, however, they are profitable birds, and their handsome carriage, and striking contrast of colour in the comb, face and plumage, are a high recommenda- tion to them as kept fowls. For a town fowl, they are perhaps better adapted than any other variety. 1307—FOWL PILLAU. (Based on M. Soyer’s Recipe. An Indian Dish.) Ingredients.— 1 lb. of rice, 2 oz. of butter, a fowl, 2 quarts of stock or good broth, 40 cardamom-seeds, oz. of coriander seed, £ oz. of cloves, i oz. of allspice, £ oz. of mace, £ oz. of cinnamon, £ oz. of peppercorns, onions, 6 thin slices of bacon, 2 hard-boiled eggs. Mode.—Well wash 1 lb. of the best Patna rice, put it into a frying- pan with the butter, which keep moving over a slow fire until the rice is slightly browned. Truss the fowl as for boiling, put it into a stewpan with the stock or broth; pound the spices and seeds thoroughly in a mortar, tie them in a piece of muslin, and put them in with the fowl. Let it boil