Their Food. 199 However perfect the sight of fishes may be, experience has shown that this sense is of much less use to them than that of smelling, in searching for their food. The optic nerves in fishes have this peculiarity—that they are not confounded with one another in their middle progress between their origin and their orbit. The one passes over the other without any communication; so that the nerve which comes from the left side of the brain goes distinctly to the right eye, and that which comes from the right goes distinctly to the left. In the greater part of them, the eye is covered with the same transparent skin that covers the rest of the head. This arrangement defends it from the action of the water, as there are no eyelids. The globe in front is somewhat depressed, and is furnished behind with a muscle, which serves to lengthen or flatten it, according to the necessities of the animal. The crystalline humour, which in quadrupeds is flattened, is in fishes, nearly globular. The organ of smelling in fishes is large, and is endued at its entry, with a dilating and contracting power, which is employed as the wants of the animal may require. It is mostly by the acuteness of their smell that fishes are enabled to discover their food ; for their tongue is not de- signed for nice sensation, being of too firm a cartilaginous substance for this purpose. 407. —The Food of Fishes.—This is almost universally found in their own element. They are mostly carnivorous, though they seize upon almost anything that comes in their way ; they even devour their own offspring, and manifest a particular predilection for living creatures. Those to which nature has meted out mouths of the greatest capacity would seem to pursue everything with life, and frequently engage in fierce conflicts with their prey. The animal with the largest mouth is usually the victor; and he has no sooner conquered his foe than he devours him. Innumerable shoals of one species pursue those of another, with a ferocity which draws them from the pole to the equator, through all the varying temperatures and depths of their boundless domain. In these pursuits a scene of universal violence is the result; and many species must have become extinct, were not the means of escape, the production and the numbers greater than the dangers to which they are exposed. The smaller species are not only more numerous, but more productive than the larger, whilst their instinct leads them in search of food and safety near the shores, where, from the shallowness of the waters, many of their foes are unable to follow them. 408. —The Fecundity of Fishes has been the wonder of every natural philosopher whose attention has been attracted to the subject. They are in general oviparous, or egg-producing; but there are a few, such as the eel and the blenny, which are viviparous, or produce their young alive. The males have the milt and the females the roe. The greater number deposit their spawn in the sand or gravel; but some of those which dwell in the depths of the ocean attach their eggs to sea-weeds. In every instance, however, their fruit- fulness far surpasses that of any other race of animals. According to Leuwen- hoeck, the cod annually spawns upwards of nine millions of eggs, contained in a single roe. The flounder produces one million ; the mackerel above five hundred thousand ; a herring of a moderate size at least ten thousand; a carp fourteen inches in length, according to Petit, contained two hundred and sixty- two thousand two hundred and twenty-four; a perch deposited three hundred and eighty thousand six hundred and forty ; and a female sturgeon seven millions six hundred and fifty-three thousand two hundred. The viviparous species are by no means so prolific ; yet the blenny brings forth two or three hundred at a time, which commence sporting together round their parent the moment they come into existence.