1257 Provisions in Australia. here that cannot be found there cheaper and more plentiful ; while many of the luxuries of English life are within the reach of the poorest of the Colonists. 2850. Australian meat is very much the same as our own. Stall-fed beasts are fattened in the same way as English ones and their flesh is equally rich and good, it only happening sometimes that up country, in a season of draught, where stall feeding is not practised, the food is occasionally insufficient, and the meat consequently poor. In the towns the price of meat varies from 3d. to 6d. per lb. Beef being from 4d. to 6d., and mutton from 3d. to 4d. Up country it is cheaper, so cheap, indeed, that much is wasted or given to the dogs, only the best parts being generally eaten. Lambs are seldom killed up country, as their wool as hoggets is most valuable. The prejudice against Australian meat, as it is imported tinned, which still exists, would be banished, could it be seen as well as told that only the best meat is used for this purpose. We have it from the Overlander, who brought across country the first 10,000 wethers, the flesh of which was first sent from Queensland as tinned mutton, that they were equal in condition to the best of sheep now sold in Smithfield Market; and the quality and condition of animals killed for exportation in this manner, has not since then in any way deteriorated. 2851. Australian fish is plentiful and good, but we miss one English favourite, namely, the sole, which is not found in any Australian waters. The oyster beds are fine ones and the luscious bivalve is too cheap to be considered a luxury as it is here. Fresh water fish are most abundant in both creeks and rivers ; fresh water cod especially, a delicately-flavoured fish, generally considered superior to the cod fish we are inclined to despise here as tasteless and insipid. 2852. Fruit and vegetables are very easy to grow in Australia, many of the fruits that we esteem so highly growing wild. Where the soil is rich it is rot at all an uncommon thing to see the banks of rivers covered with water melons, gladly hailed by many thirsty travellers as a refreshing meal under the scorching sun of summer. 2853. Groceries, beer, wines and spirits have been the most ex- pensive items in Australian housekeeping ; but now that so many Colonists grow their own rice, tea and coffee, and make their own sugar and rum from the sugar canes, to say nothing of brewing their own beer, and cultivating their own grapes for wine making, even these articles will cease to be luxuries, and come within the reach of all. Australian wines, many of them, are excellent, particularly the red ones, and it seems a pity that they should be rather high in price, as the best brands undoubtedly are, even in the country where the grapes are grown. 2854. Wages in Australia are the only things that render housekeeping in any way as expensive as at home; for it may be reckoned that the pay of female servants is quite doubled when they emigrate. A good cook can easily command from /40 to /50 a year, and in many households a man and wife are engaged in the capacities of butler and cook at excellent salaries. Up country really good servants are very hard to find, and the Australian housewife (no matter to what rank she belongs) ought to be prepared to undertake the duties of any absent domestic, so that a knowledge of cooking and ordinary household work, are necessary qualifications for a settler’s wife.