Stewed Eels. 223 Time.—After the water boils, i to ^ hour, according to size. Average Cost, is. to 5s. Seasonable all the year, but best from Sep- tember to January. Note.—Small John Dories are very good baked. The Duro or John Dory —This fish is of a yellowish golden colour, and is, in general, rare, although it is sometimes taken in abundance on the Devon and Cornish coasts. It is highly esteemed for the table, and its flesh, when dressed is of a beau- tifully clear white. When fresh caught, it is tough, and, being a ground fish, it is none the worse for being kept two, or even three days before it is cooked. 461.—BOILED EELS. (Fv.—Anguilles.) Ingredients.—4 small eels, sufficient water to cover them ; a large bunch of parsley. Mode.— Choose small eels for boiling; put them in a stewpan with the parsley, and just sufficient water to cover them ; simmer till tender. Take them out, pour a little parsley and butter over them, and serve some in a tureen. Time.—| hour. Average cost, 81?. to is. per lb. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. THE EEE. are, in general naked, or covered with such small, soft and distant scales, as are scarcely visible. Their bodies are long and slender, and they are supposed to_ subsist entirely on animal substances. There are about nine species of them, mostly found in the seas. One of them frequents our fresh waters, and three of the others occasionally pay a visit to our shores. 462.—STEWED EELS. (Fr.—Anguilles a la Creme.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of eels, 1 pint of rich, strong stock, No. 272 ; 1 onion, 3 cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, 1 glass of port or Madeira, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream ; thickening of flour; cayenne and lemon-juice to taste. Mode.—Wash and skin the eels, and cut them into pieces about 3 inches long ; pepper and salt them, and lay them in a stewpan ; pour over the stock, add the onion stuck with cloves, the lemon-peel, and the wine. Stew gently for half an hour, or rather more, and lift them care* I The Eel Tribe.—The Apodal, or bony-gilled and ventral-finned fish, of which the eel forms the first Linnaean tribe, in their general aspect and manners approach, in some'instances, very nearly to serpents. They have a smooth head and slippery skin,