Agio Breakfasts, Luncheons, Dinners, Teas and Suppers. 2980. Having discussed the two questions of food and hours, we now come to the serving of the meals ; and let no one think this an unimportant matter. What a temptation to eat is a well-laid table, where the silver and glass is bright, the knives sharp and polished, the linen spotless, and the dishes properly garnished and set straight. There can be no necessity for a slovenly table any more than slovenly dress; and however simple the meal may be, it is easy to arrange that it should be properly placed upon the table. To some, if not to most people, it is as essential to their enjoyment of a meal that it should be well served, as that the dishes should have been properly prepared and cooked. Of course, we are now speaking generally, for we give in detail the way to lay a cloth, how to decorate the table, how to fold the serviettes—in fact, the preliminaries to the meal—a little later on. 2981.—HOW TO LAY A CLOTH. Anybody knowing how to lay a cloth properly and tastefully, prettily and neatly, knows something decidedly worth knowing. The first, or almost the first, attention bestowed by a young wife upon her household affairs should be directed to the laying of the meal cloth. Just as she begins, so, doubtless, she will go on. The laying of the cloth is a most important item in household management; it exercises a certain moral influence upon the inmates of the house in the degree of care or thought that is bestowed upon it. We give hints upon the subject, which we hope will be found welcome to our readers. 2982. General Rules.—Whether the table is to be covered with the most costly viands or the most simple fare, whether it be for prince or tradesman, there is yet equal necessity that the cloth should be spotless and good, the cutlery well cleaned and sharp, the silver polished brightly and the glass clear. These are luxuries within the reach of all. We say “ luxuries ” because we all know the comfort of a well-laid table, and yet there are many who do not trouble them- selves about the usual every-day laying of the cloth, only making a point of this being carefully done when guests are expected. We could venture to suggest that if the mistress of a household could see that her table was properly laid every day she would find it less trouble than the anxiety of having it so only now and then, and much of the annoyance which the occasional dropping in of a friend at meal times often causes could be spared. Besides, though perhaps this point should not be discussed here, why should our ordinary family table differ so widely, as we confess it does too often, from the table we like our friends to see us presiding at? It is because we have let " only ourselves " take a broader, wider meaning than it should have. " Only ourselves ” stands too often as the apology for a dirty cloth, unpolished cutlery and silver, and smeared glass, to say nothing of perhaps negligent cookery into the bargain. And is it not a notable fact that when we do give a dinner-party, we strive our utmost to carry off the affair with ease and nonchalance, and are vexed if the secret be discovered- more than vexed—that to do this has been a source of worry and hard work ever since we projected the scheme. It is seldom, too, that we succeed in keeping the secret to ourselves, and our friends sometimes maliciously enjoy it. 2983. The Table.—This being used by a large majority for both breakfast and dinner as well as other meals, should be one with extra leaves, it being such a great discomfort to partake of any meal when one has not sufficient elbow room, while it is equally unnecessary for the home party, if small, to have a large table in daily use. The ordinary dining-room table being mahogany, should be kept polished and covered with baize to avoid the marks which hot dishes are apt to make. This baize cloth is most convenient when made about six inches larger than the table all round, and drawn up under its edges with a string run in the hem.