1117 Economical Cake. Mode.—Mix the above into a stiff paste, using no more milk than is absolutely required. Bake on tin plates in a quick oven. Cut them across like scones, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, qi. Sufficient for 4 cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2470.—CREAM CAKE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of fresh butter, 1 pint of warm water, | lb. of sifted flour, 10 eggs, 1 quart of sweet milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of cornflour, x cup- ful of sugar. Mode.—Put all but a small piece of the butter into a stewpan, add the warm water and slowly bring it to the boiling point, stirring often. When it boils hard put in the flour, continue stirring, and boil one minute, then turn it into a deep dish to cool. Beat the yolks of 8 eggs and work them into the cool paste; then do the same with the whites, and drop the mixture in tablespoonfuls on to buttered paper, taking care they do not run into each other. Bake 10 minutes. Boil the milk after mixing the cornflour with a little of it, beat up the remaining eggs, and add them to the cornflour; then pour the boiling milk on them, put in the sugar and a little vanilla or lemon flavouring, and the rest of the butter. Stir it till it is smooth and thick, then set aside to cool. Split the cake open with a sharp knife, and fill up with the cornflour. Time.—10 minutes to bake, but altogether 1 hour. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for 2 dozen cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2471.—ECONOMICAL CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, £ lb. of sugar, £ lb. of butter or lard, 4 lb. of currants, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the whites of 4 eggs, £ pint of milk. Mode.—In making many sweet dishes, the whites of eggs are not required, and if well beaten and added to the above ingredients make an excellent cake, with or without currants; Beat the butter to a cream, well whisk the whites of the eggs, and stir all the ingredients together but the soda, which must not be added until all is well mixed, and the cake is ready to be put into the oven. When the mixture has been well beaten, stir in the soda, put the cake into a buttered mould, and bakeit in a moderate oven for ij hour. Time.—ii hour. Average Cost, is. id. CAKE-MOULD.