184 Recipes for Soups. 380—TRANSPARENT SOUP. (Fr.—Consomme de Veau.) Ingredients.—4 or 5 lbs. of leg of veal, £ lb. of almonds, £ oz. of mace, 1 fagot of sweet herbs, 2 oz. of vermicelli. Mode.—Cutthe meat from the leg in very thin slices, put it into an earthern jar ; break up the bones as small as possible, and put them on top of the meat. Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste in a mortar; add them, the mace and herbs to the meat, and pour over all a gallon of boiling water. Simmer the whole for 12 hours over a very slow fire. Then turn the whole into a soup saucepan, and simmer again till it is reduced to 2 quarts, clearing off the scum as it rises. Then strain the soup and let it stand two hours to clear, after which, pour it carefully into another vessel, without mixing any of the sediment from the bottom with it. Soak the vermicelli in water, boil it, and serve in the soup. This is a very nice white soup. Time.—2 days. Average Cost, 3s. for this quantity. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. 381.—TURKEY SOUP. (Fr.-PurSe de Dinde.) (A Seasonable Dish at Christmas.) Ingredients.—2 quarts of medium stock, No. 273, the remains of a cold roast turkey, 2 oz. of rice-flour or arrowroot, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey’s sauce or mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut up the turkey in small pieces, and put them in the stock; Let it simmer slowly until the bones are quite clean. Take the bones out, and work the soup through a sieve ; when cold, skim well. Mix the rice- flour or arrowroot to a batter with a little of the soup ; add it with the seasoning and sauce, or ketchup. Give one boil, and serve. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, IS. 6d. for this quantity. Seasonable at Christmas. Note.—Instead of thickening this soup, vermicelli or macaroni may be served in it. The Turkey.—The common turkey is a native of North America, and was thence intro- duced into England in the reign of Henry VIII. According to Tussor's “Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandry,” about the year 1585 it began to form a dish at our rural Christmas feasts. “ Beef, mutton and pork, shred pies of the best, Pig, veal, goose and capon, and turkey well dres'd, Cheese, apples and nuts, jolly carols to hear, As then in the country is counted good cheer.” It is one of the most difficult birds to rear of any that we have; yet, in its wild state, is found in great abundance in the forests of Canada, where it might have been imagined that the severity of the climate would be unfavourable to its ever becoming plentiful. Turkeys are very fond of the seeds of nettles, and the seeds of the fox-glove poison them.