Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. 498 1093.—KIDNEY TOAST. (A Nice Breakfast Dish.) Ingredients. — 2 sheep’s kidneys, or | lb. of bullock’s kidney, 1 oz. of butter, cayenne, a squeeze of lemon, salt, 2 slices of hot buttered toast. Mode. — Stew the kidneys with a very little water until tender, remove the skin and gristle, and pound smooth in a mortar, with the butter, lemon-; nice, salt and cayenne to taste. Spread the mixture on the toast, which should be buttered on both sides, and put in the oven to get hot through. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Downs —The well-known substance, chalk, which the chemist regards as a nearly pure carbonate of lime, and the microscopist as an aggregation of inconceivably minute shells and corals, forms the sub-soil of the hilly districts of the south-east of England. The chalk-hills known as the South Downs start from the bold promontory of Beechy Head, traverse the county of Sussex from east to west, and pass through Hampshire into Surrey. The North Downs extend from Godaiming, by Godstone, into Kent, and terminate in the line of cliffs which stretches from Dover to Ramsgate. The Downs are clothed with short verdant turf; but the layer of soil which rests upon the chalk is too thin to support trees and shrubs. The hills have rounded summits, and their smooth, undulated outlines are unbroken save by the sepulchral monuments of the early inhabitants of the country. The coombes and furrows, which ramify and extend into deep valleys, appear like dried-up channels of streams and rivu- lets. From time immemorial, immense flocks of sheep have been reared on these Downs. The herbage of these hills is remarkably nutritious ; and whilst the natural healthiness of the climate, consequent on the dryness of the air and the moderate elevation of the land, is eminently favourable to rearing a superior race of sheep, the arable land in the immediate neighbourhood of the Downs affords the means of a supply of other food, when the natural produce of the hills fails. The mutton of the South-Down breed of sheep is highly valued for its delicate flavour, and the wool for its fineness; but the best specimens of this breed, when im- ported from England into the West Indies, become miserably lean in the course of a year or two, and their woolly fleece gives place to a covering of short, crisp, brownish hair. 1094.—BROILED KIDNEYS. {Fr.—Rognons Grilles.) (A Breakfast or Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—Sheep’s kidneys, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Ascertain that the kidneys are fresh, and cut them open, very evenly, lengthwise, down to the root; for should one half be thicker than the other, one would be underdone, whilst the other would be dried ; but do not separate them, and pass a skewer under the white part of each half to keep them flat, and broil over a nice clear fire, placing the inside downwards; turn them when done enough on one side, and cook them on the other. Remove the skewers, place the kidneys on a very hot dish, season with pepper and salt, and put a tiny piece of butter in the middle of each; serve very hot and quickly, and send very hot plates to table.