Christmas Pudding. 863 Raisins.—Raisins are grapes, prepared by suflering them to remain on the vine until they are perfectly ripe, and then drying them in the sun or by the heat of an oven. The sun-dried grapes are sweet, the oven-dried of an acid flavour. The common way of drying grapes tor raisins is to tie two or three bunches of them together whilst yet on the vine, and dip them into a hot lixivium of wood-ashes mixed with a little of the oil of olives ; this disposes them to shrink and wrinkle, after which they are left on the vine three or four days, separated, on sticks in a horizontal situation, and then dried in the sun at leisure, after being cut from the tree. CHRISTMAS PLUM-PUDDING IN MOULD. 1837.—CHRISTMAS PLUM-PUDDING. (Very Good.) Ingredients.—i£ lb. of raisins, i lb. of currants, £ lb. of mixed peel, | lb. of bread-crumbs, £ lb. of suet, 8 eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy. Mode.—Stone and cut the raisins in halves, but do not chop them ; wash, pick, and dry the currants, and mince the suet finely; cut the candied peel into thin slices, and grate down the bread into fine crumbs. When all these dry ingredients are prepared, mix them well together; then moisten the mixture with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the brandy; stir well, that everything may be very thoroughly blended, and press the pudding into a buttered mould; tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, and boil for 5 or 6 hours. It may be boiled in a cloth without a mould, and will require the same time allowed for cooking. As Christ- mas puddings are usually made a few days before they are required for table, when the pudding is taken out of the pot, hang it up immediately, and put a plate or saucer underneath to catch the water that may drain from it. The day it is to be eaten, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for at least two hours; then turn it out of the mould, and serve with brandy-sauce. On Christmas Day a sprig of holly is usually placed in the middle of the pudding, and about a wineglassful of brandy poured round it, which, at the moment of serving, is lighted, and the pudding thus brought to table encircled in flame. Time.—5 or 6 hours the first time of boiling ; 2 hours the day it is to be served. Average Cost, 3s. 3d. Sufficient for a quart mould for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable on the 25th of December, and on various festive occasions till March. Note.—Five or six of these puddings should be made at one time, as they will keep good for many weeks, and in cases where unexpected guests arrive, will be found an acceptable, and, as it only requires warming through, a quickly-prepared dish. Moulds of every shape and size are manufactured for these puddings, and thus a pleasant variety can be made. Brandy is the alcoholic or spirituous portion of wine, separated from the aqueous part, the colouring matter, &c., by distillation. The word is of German origin, and in its German form.