1552 Management of Nursery and Sick-Room. 3488. Invalid’s Food.—“Patients,” says Miss Nightingale, "aresometimes starved in the midst of plenty, from want of attention to the ways which alone make it possible for them to take food. A spoonful of beef-tea, or arrowroot and wine, or some other light nourishing diet, should be given constantly, for the patient's stomach will reject large supplies. In very weak patients there is often a nervous difficulty in swallowing, which is much increased if food is not ready and presented at the moment when it is wanted : the nurse should be able to discriminate, and know when this moment is approaching.” Never bring a large plateful to an invalid ; let it be, if anything, rather less than more than you think he will take, a little can easily be added; but the sight of much food will sometimes prevent a patient taking any. Diet suitable for patients will depend, in some degree, on their natural likes and dislikes, which the nurse will do well to acquaint her- self with. Beef-tea is useful and relishing but possesses little nourishment ; when evapo- rated, it presents a teaspoonful of solid meat to a pint of water. Eggs are not equivalent to the same weight of meat. Arrowroot is less nourishing than flour. Butter is the lightest and most digestive kind of fat. Cream, in some diseases, cannot be replaced. But, to sum up with some of Miss Nightingale’s useful maxims —Observation is the nurse's best guide, and the patient’s appetite the rule. Half a pint of milk is equal to a quarter of a pound of meat. Beef-tea is the least nourishing food administered to the sick ; and tea and coffee, she thinks are both too much excluded from the sick-room. 3489. A. nurse’s dress should be of some washing material that neither rustles nor crackles; her shoes should be soft ones that do not creak, her sleeves should be loose enough to roll back, and she should have a plentiful supply of large white aprons. A professional nurse would wear a neat white cap. Suffering people are apt to be impressed by trifles, such as a black dress having a gloomy look, while a bright one has a cheering effect, and we ourselves prefer to see a pretty pink cotton gown, for example, in a sick room, than a sombre, black looking one, for, beside the fact of the former being pleasanter to the eye, it has the additional advantage of not carrying infection as the woollen gown might. 3490. Doctors’ orders )are never disregarded by a nurse worthy of the name. Should she by watching the case think any other treatment or diet would be beneficial to the patient, she should not act upon her own opinion, but state it to the doctor. She should always report to him any change she observes in the patient, which she should be watchful to detect. The hearty co-operation of a nurse is of incalculable help to a doctor. 3491. Convalescence.—In this stage the patient is often more difficult to manage than when seriously ill, he is more wayward and fanciful, more easily put out, and more easily impressed by his surroundings. The room should be made as bright and pretty as possible; he should be tempted to eat what is best for him, and'.firmly refused what would be detrimental. Anything that can be FEEDING BOAT.