Curds and Whey. ii57 2576.—TO KEEP MILK AND CREAM IN HOT WEATHER. Mode.—When the weather is very warm, and it is very difficult to prevent milk from turning sour and spoiling the cream, it should be scalded, and it will then remain good for a few hours. It must on no account be allowed to boil, or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk ; and the slower the process, the safer will it be. A very good plan to scald milk, is to put the pan that contains it into a saucepan or wide kettle of boiling water. When the surface looks thick, the milk is sufficiently scalded, and it should then be put away in a cool place in the same vessel that it was scalded in. Cream may be kept for 24 hours, if scalded without sugar; and, by the addition of the latter ingredient, it will remain good double the time, if kept in a cool place. All pans, jugs and vessels intended for milk, should be kept beautifully clean, and well scalded before the milk is put in, as any negligence in this respect may cause large quantities of it to be spoiled ; and milk should never be kept in vessels of zinc or copper. Milk may be preserved good in hot weather, for a few hours, by placing the jug which contains it in ice, or very cold water: or a pinch of bicarbonate of soda may be introduced into the liquid. The salt soapy flavour of the soda is dis- guised in milk soups and savories. Milk, when of good quality, is of an opaque white colour : the cream always comes to the top; the well-known milky odour is strong; it will boil without altering its appearance, in these respects; the little bladders which arise on the surface will renew themselves if broken by the spoon. To boil milk is, in fact, the simplest way of testing its quality. The commonest adultera- tions of milk are not of a hurtful character. It is a good deal thinned with water, and sometimes thickened with a little starch, or coloured with yolk of egg, or even saffron ; but these processes have nothing murderous in them, supposing the water to be pure. 2577—CURDS AND WHEY. Ingredients.—A very small piece of rennet, £ gallon of milk. Mode.—Procure from the butcher’s a small piece of rennet, which is the stomach of the calf, taken as soon as it is killed, scoured and well rubbed with salt, and stretched on sticks to dry. Pour some boiling water on the rennet, and let it remain for 6 hours; then use the liquor to turn the milk. The milk should be warm and fresh from the cow; if allowed to cool, it must be heated till it is of a degree quite equal to new milk; but do not let it be too hot. About a tablespoonful, or rather more, would be sufficient to turn the above proportion of milk into curds and whey ; and, whilst the milk is turning, let it be kept in rather a warm place. Prepared rennet can be bought in bottles, and to use it saves much time and trouble. Time.—From 2 to 3 hours to turn the milk. Seasonable at any time. 2578.—DEVONSHIRE CREAM. Mode.—The milk should stand 12 hours in the winter, half that time or less when the weather is very warm. The milk-pan is then set on a stove,