Hashed Fowl. 653 on the top : oysters, or chopped mushrooms, or balls of oyster forcemeat, may be laid round the dish. The Moulting Season.—During the moulting season, beginning properly at the end of September, the fowls will require a little extra attention. Keep them dry and warm, and feed them liberally on warm and satisfying food. If in any fowl the moult should seem protracted, examine it for broken feather-stumps still bedded in the skin ; if you find any, extract them care- fully with a pair of tweezers. If a fowl is hearty and strong, six weeks will see him out of his trouble; if he is weakly, or should take cold during the time, he will not thoroughly recover in less than three months. It is seldom or ever that hens will lay during the moult ; while the cock, during the same period, will give so little of his consideration to the frivolities of love that you may as well, nay, much better, keep him by himself till he perfectly recovers. A moulting chicken makes but a sorry dish. 1358.-HASHED FOWL, INDIAN FASHION. (Fr.—Ragout de Volaille a I’lndienne.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 3 or 4 sliced onions, 1 apple, 2 oz. of butter, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 1 table- spoonful of curry-powder, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 pint of gravy. Mode.—Cut the onions into slices, mince the apple, and fry these in the butter ; add pounded mace, pepper, salt, curry-powder, vinegar, flour and sugar in the above proportions ; when the onion is brown, put in the gravy, which should be previously made from the bones and trimmings of the fowls, and stew for three quarters of an hour; add the fowl cut into nice-sized joints, let it warm through, and when quite tender, serve. The dish should be garnished with an edging of boiled rice. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the fowl, 8d. Seasonable at any time. The Scour, or Dysentery.—The scour, or dysentery, or diarrhoea,is induced variously. A sudden alteration in diet will cause it, as will a superabundance ot green food. The best remedy is a piece of toasted biscuit sopped in ale. If the disease has too tight a hold on the bird to be quelled by this, give six drops of syrup of white poppies and six drops of castor-oil, mixed with a little oatmeal or ground rice. Restrict the bird’s diet for a few days to dry food-crushed beans or oats, stale bread-crumbs, &c. 1359.-FOWL SCOLLOPS. (Fr.—Escalopes de Poulet a la Bechaud.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled fowl, £ pint of bechamel, No. 665, or white sauce. Mode.—Strip off the skin from the fowl; cut the meat into thin slices, and warm them in about half a pint, or rather more, of bechamel, or white sauce. When quite hot, serve, and garnish the dish with rolled ham or bacon toasted. Time—1 minute to simmer the slices of fowl. Seasonable at any time.