Elaborate Dinners. 1333 be thought easy to be brought in by a poet. In his idyll of “ Audley Court ” he gives a most appetising description of a pasty at a picnic :— “There, on a slope of orchard, Francis laid A damask napkin wrought with horse and hound ; Brought out a dusky loaf that smelt of home, And, half cut down, a pasty costly made, Where quail and pigeon, lark and leverst, lay Like fossils of the rock, with golden yolks Imbedded and injellied.” We gladly quote passages like these, to show how eating and drinking may be surrounded with poetical associations, and how man, usirg his privilege to turn any and every repast into a “feast of reason,” with a warm and plentiful “ flow of soul,” may really count it as not the least of his legitimate prides, that he is “ a dining animal.” 3034. Great Diners. — It has been said, indeed, that great men, in general, are great diners. This, however, can scarcely be true of any great men but men of action; and, in that case, it would simply imply that persons of vigorous constitution, who work hard, eat heartily ; for, of course, a life of action requires a vigorous constitution, even though there may be much illness, as in such cases as William III. and our brave General Napier. Of men of thought, it can scarcely be true that they eat so much, in a general way, though even they eat more than they are apt to suppose they do ; for, as Mr, Lewes observes, “nerve-tissue is very expensive.” So also is working “ tissue,” if we may use the word again, and it is a certain thing that a fair amount of well cooked, wholesome food is a necessary thing where good work has to be done. We have been told by the heads of firms who employ a great number of persons, that, apart jrom their duty to their employes, it is quite a matter of business to feed them well, and for this reason they prefer to have them in the house, that they may be sure that lack of proper food does not prevent them doing a fair amount of work. 3035. Variety of Food.—Of course dinners such as would be served at these large establishments are very easily arranged, well cooked joints forming the staple food, and of these we need not speak except to notice one complaint which we often hear, namely, the lack of variety in the dinners given at these large houses. Good and well cooked as the food is, there are many people who cannot eat beef and mutton every day, and a still larger number who cannot enjoy it, and it seems a pity that some variety in food, although it would involve more trouble, cannot be given to those who lead such very monotonous lives. However, this is the age of improvement, and it being so well known that change of diet, if not absolutely essential, is a very good thing for all, doubtless ere long there will be nothing to complain of in this respect, and dinners of more varied kinds of food for these large numbers, which will cost no more than the present one (probably less) will be provided, that being better relished, will be better digested. 3036. Elaborate Dinners.—On the other hand many people are dis- posed to object to the variety of dishes at a modern dinner table, but as there are to be found in all good dinners some simple joint or other things which can be chosen from the more elaborate menus, they have really little cause to grumble. The majority of diners prefer a variety, which does not necessarily imply any- thing unwholesome or capricious, and the appetite of the over-worked statesman FRUIT DISH.