1092 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. be covered with the cloth, and left to rise a second time. In three- quarters of an hour look at it, and should it have swollen very much, and begin to crack, it will be light enough to bake. Turn it then on to a pasteboard or very clean dresser, and with a large sharp knife divide it in two; make it up quickly into loaves, and dispatch it to the oven; make one or two incisions across the tops of the loaves, as they will rise more easily if this be done. If baked in tins or pans, rub them with a tiny piece of butter laid on a piece of clean paper, to prevent the dough from sticking to them. All bread should be turned upside down, or on its side, as soon as it is drawn from the oven: if this be neglected the under part of the loaves will become wet and blistered from the steam, which cannot then escape from them. To make the dough without setting a sponge, merely mix the yeast with the greater part of the warm milk-and-water, and wet up the whole of the flour at once after a little salt has been stirred in, pro- ceeding exactly, in every other respect, as in the directions just given. As the dough will soften in the rising, it should be made quite firm at first. Time.—To be left to rise an hour the first time, f hour the second time ; to be baked from 1 to 1 £ hour, or baked in one loaf from to 2 hours. Italian Millet, or Great Indian Millet, is cultivated in Egypt and Nubia, where Italian it is called dhourra, and is used as human food, as well as for the fermentation of millet. beer. It will grow on poor soils, and is extremely productive. It has been intro- duced into Italy, where they make a coarse bread from it; and it is also employed in pastry and puddings; they also use it for feeding horses and domestic fowls. It is the largest variety, growing to the height of six feet; but it requires a warm climate, and will not ripen in this country. A yellow variety, called Golden Millet, is sold in the grocers’ shops, for making pud- dings, and is very delicate aud wholesome. 2408.—HOME-MADE BREAD. Mode.—To i quartern of flour (3^ lbs.) add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and mix them well; mix about 2 tablespoonfuls of good fresh yeast with half a pint of water, a little warm, but not hot ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, pour the water and yeast into this and stir with a spoon until you have a thin batter ; sprinkle this over with flour, cover the pan over with a dry cloth, and let it stand in a warm room for one , ,, r ,, . . . . HOME-MADE LOAE. hour, then follow instructions given in recipe 2407. Time.—1^ hour to stand, 1 hour to bake. Average Cost, 6d. Note.—The various kinds of bread illustrated on opposite page consist of:—i, Brioches; 2-3and 4, Fancy Bread; 5, Crumpets; 6, Scotch Bread; 7, Household Loaf; 8, Milk Bread; 9, Muffins; 10, French Bread; 11, Jewish Bread; 12, Cottage Loaf; 13, Aerated Loaf; 14, Neville’s Bread; 15, German Bread; 16 and 18, Oat Cake; 17, Home-made Loaf; 19, Scone; 20, Italian Bread; 21 and 22, German Milk Bread ; 23, Whole Meal Ifoaf; 24, Milk Loaf; 25, English Roll: 26. Twist*", 27 Tea Cake i 28. Brown Bread; 29, Dinner Roll; 30, French Roll.