Haunch of Mutton. 499 Time.—6 to 8 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. each. Sufficient.—Allow 1 for each person. Seasonable at any time. Note.—A prettier dish than the above may be made by serving the kidneys each on a piece of buttered toast cut in any fanciful shape. In this case a little lemon-juice will be found an improvement. io95-—FRIED KIDNEYS. (Fr.—Rognons Frits.) Ingredients.—Kidneys, butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the kidneys open without quite dividing them, remove the skin, and put a small piece of butter in the frying-pan. When the butter is melted, lay in the kidneys, the flat side downwards, and fry them for seven or eight minutes, turning them when they are half done. Serve on a piece of dry toast, season with pepper and salt, and put a small piece of butter in each kidney; pour the gravy from the pan over them, and serve very hot. Time.—7 or 8 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. each. Sufficient.—Allow I for each person. Seasonable at any time. 1096.-ROAST HAUNCH OF MUTTON. (Fr.—Hanche de Mouton Rotie.) Ingredients.—Haunch of mutton, a little salt, flour. Mode.—Let this joint hang as long as possible without becoming tainted, and while hanging dust flour over it, which keeps off the flies and prevents the air from getting to it. If not well hung, the joint, when it comes to table, will neither do credit to the butcher nor the cook, as it will not be tender. Wash the outside well, lest it should have a bad flavour from keeping; then flour it and put it down to a nice brisk fire, at some dis- tance, so that it may gradually warm through. Keep continually basting, and about half an hour before it is served, draw it nearer to the fire to get nicely brown. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, pour off the dripping, add a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Place a paper ruche on the bone, and send red-currant jelly and gravy in a tureen to table with it. Time.—About 4 hours. Average Cost, 9%d. per lb. Sufficient for 12 persons. Seasonable.—In best season from September to March. How to Buy Moat Economically.—If the housekeeper is not very particular as to the precise joints to cook for dinner, there is oftentimes an opportunity for her to save as much money in her HAUNCH OF MUTTON.