^55° Management of Nursery and Sick-Room. contrary, the gases generated in the lower parts of the house are likely to be drawn into the invalid’s chamber. These precautions taken, and plain nourish- ing diet, such as the patient desires, furnished, probably little more can be done, unless more serious symptoms present themselves; in which case medical advice will be sought. 3484. fentilation.—Under no circumstances is ventilation of the sick- room so essential as in cases of febrile diseases, usually considered infectious; such as typhus and puerperal fevers, influenza, whooping-cough, small-pox and chicken-pox, scarlet fever, measles, and erysipelas; all these are considered in this manner. The comfort of feverish patients, and indeed of most sick per- sons, is greatly increased by being sponged with tepid water in which cam- phorated spirit is dropped. A teaspoonful should be poured into a quart of water, and a patient may be sponged every two hours, in warm weather. "It is another fallacy,’’ says Florence Nightingale, "to suppose that night air is injurious; a great authority told me that, in London, the air is never so good as after ten o’clock, when smoke has diminished ; but then it must be air from without, not within, and not air vitiated by gaseous airs.” "A great fallacy prevails also," she says, in another section, “ about flowers poisoning the air of the sick-room : no one ever saw them over-crowding the sick-room; but, if they did, they actually absorb carbonic acid and give off oxygen.” Cut flowers also decompose water, and produce oxygen gas. Lilies, and some other very odorous plants, may perhaps give out smells unsuited to a close room, while the atmosphere of the sick-room should always be fresh and natural. 3485. Atmosphere of the Sick Room.—Under all circumstances it should be kept as fresh and sweet as the open air, while the temperature is kept up by artificial heat, taking care that the fire burns clear, and gives out no smoke into the room ; that the room is perfectly clean, wiped over with a damp cloth every day, if boarded; and swept, after sprinkling with damp tea-leaves, or other aromatic leaves, if carpeted ; that all utensils are emptied and cleaned as soon as used, and not once in four-and-twenty hours, as is sometimes done. “ A slop-pail," Miss Nightingale says, “ should never enter a sick-room ; everything should be carried direct to the water-closet, emptied there, and brought up clean ; in the best hospitals the slop-pail is unknown." ‘‘ I do not approve,” says Miss Nightingale, ‘‘of making housemaids of nurses, that would be waste of means; but I have seen surgical sisters, women whose hands INVALID CHAIR. communicable through the air; but there is little danger of infection being thus communicated, pro- vided the room is kept thoroughly ventilated. On the contrary, if this essential be neglected, the power of infection is greatly increased and concentrated in the con- fined and impure air ; it settles upon the clothes of the attendants and visitors, especially where they are of wool, and is frequently communi- cated to other families