Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 8l2 pared and cut into quarters, are added; the whole is then allowed to simmer gently, stirring it all the time with a long wooden spoon, till the apples are thoroughly mixed with the liquor, and the whole forms a species of marmalade, which is extremely agreeable to the taste, having a slight flavour of acidity, like lemon mixed with honey. 1704.—RICH BAKED APPLE PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of the pulp of apples, I lb. of loaf sugar, 6 oz. of butter, the rind of 1 lemon, 6 eggs, puff-paste. Mode.—Peel, core and cut the apples, as for sauce ; put them into a stewpan, with only just sufficient water to prevent them from burning, and let them stew until reduced to a pulp. Weigh the pulp, and to every half pound add sifted sugar, grated leinon-rind, and six well-beaten eggs. Beat these ingredients well together; then melt the butter, stir it to the other things, put a border of puff-paste round the dish, and bake for rather more than half an hour. The butter should not be added until the pudding is ready for the oven. Time.—1 to f hour. Average Cost, is. 7d.. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. 1705.—BAKED APPLE PUDDING. {More Economical.) Ingredients.—12 large apples, 6 oz. of moist sugar, 3 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, 1 pint of bread-crumbs. Mode.—Pare, core and cut the apples, as for sauce, and boil them until reduced to a pulp ; then add the butter, melted, and the eggs, which should be well whisked. Beat up the pudding for 2 or 3 minutes ; butter a pie-dish; put in a layer of bread-crumbs, then the apple, and and then another layer of bread-crumbs ; flake over these a few t.iny pieces of butter, and bake for about half an hour. Time.—About | hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. Note.—A very good economical pudding may be made merely with apples, boiled and sweetened with the addition of a few strips of lemon-peel. A layer of bread-crumbs should be placed above and below the apples, and the pudding baked for half an hour. Constituents of the Apple.—All apples contain sugar, malic acid, or the acid ot apples; mucilage, or gum ; woody iibre, and water; together with some aroma, on which their peculiar flavour depends. The hard acid kinds are unwholesome if eaten raw; but by the process of cooking, a great deal of this acid is decomposed and converted into sugar. The sweet and mellow kinds form a valuable addition to the dessert. A great part of the acid juice is converted into sugar as the fruit ripens, and even after it is gathered, by a natural process termed matura- tion ; but when apples decay, the sugar is changed into a bitter principle, and the mucilage becomes mouldy and offensive. Old oheese has a remarkable effect in meliorating the apple when eaten; probably from the volatile alkali or ammonia of the cheese neutralising its acid.