354 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 784.-TOMATO SAUCE—HOT. (Fr.—Sauce aux Tomates.) (To Serve with Cutlets, Roast Meats, &c.) Ingredients.—6 tomatoes, 2 shalots, 1 clove, 1 blade of mace, salt, sugar and cayenne to taste, \ pint of gravy, No. 614, or stock No. 272. Mode.—Cut the tomatoes in two, put them in a stewpan with all the ingredients, and let them simmer gently until the tomatoes are tender enough to pulp; ruh the whole through a sieve, boil it for a few minutes, and serve. The shalots and spices may be omitted when their flavour is objected to. Time.—I hour, or rather more, to simmer the tomatoes. Arerage Cost, for this quantity, 10d. Ijajn.ll season in September and October. ToiflHr or Love-Apple.—The plant which bears this fruit is a native of SofflFAmerica, and takes its name from a Portuguese word. The tomato fruit is about the size of a small potato, and is chiefly used in soups, sauces and gravies. It is sometimes served to table roasted or boiled, and when green, makes a good ketchup or pickle. In its unripe state, it is esteemed as excellent sauce for'roast goose or pork, and when quite ripe, a good store sauce may be prepared from it. 785.—TORTUE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Tortue.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of glaze, No. 715, 1 pint of essence of ham, 1 pint of essence of truffles, 1 pint of essence of mushrooms, 1 pint of madeira, 4 pints of Espagnole sauce, No. 775, cayenne. Mode.—Put all the ingredients, except the Espagnole sauce and the cayenne into a stewpan, and simmer gently till it is reduced one half; then add the Espagnole sauce, and continue to simmer until the sauce is so reduced that it adheres thickly to a spoon. Strain the sauce through a cloth, and add to it as much cayenne as will lie on a sixpence. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 3s. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 786.—TOURNEE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Tournee.) Ingredients.—1 pint of white stock, No. 278, thickening of flour and butter, or white roux, No. 799, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, 6 chopped mushrooms, 6 green onions. Mode.—Put the stock into a stewpan with the herbs, onions, and mushrooms, and let it simmer very gently for about half an hour; stir in sufficient thickening to make it of a proper consistency ; let it boil for a