Brill. 209 427.—ANCHOVY BUTTER. (Fr.—Beurre d’Anchois.) Ingredients.—2 dozen anchovies, £ lb. of fresh butter. Mode.—Wash the anchovies thoroughly ; bone and dry them, and pound them in a mortar to a paste. Mix the butter gradually with them, and rub the whole through a sieve. Put it by in small pots for use, and carefully exclude the air with a bladder, as it soon changes the colour of anchovies, besides spoiling them. Average Cost for this quantity, is. 6d. Potted Anchovies are made in the same way, by adding pounded mace, cayenne and nutmeg to taste. 428.—BARBEL. (Fr.—Barbeau.) Ingredients.—£ pint of port wine, a saltspoonful of salt, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 sliced onions, a fagot of sweet herbs, nutmeg and mace to taste, the juice of a lemon, 2 anchovies, 1 or 2 barbel, according to size. Mode.—Boil the barbel in salt and water till done; pour off some of the water, and, to the remainder, put the ingredients mentioned above. Simmer gently for | hour, or rather more, and strain. Put in the fish; heat it gradually; but do not let it boil, or it will be woolly. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to Novem- ber. The Barbel.—This fish takes its name from the barbs cu wattels at its mouth; and, in England, is esteemed as one of the worst of the fresh-water fish. It was, however, formerly, if not now, a favourite with the Jews, excellent cookers of fish. Some are used to boil with it a piece of bacon, that it may have a relish. It is to be met with from two to three or four feet long, and is said to live to a great age. From Putney upwards, in the Thames, they are found of large size; but are valued chiefly as affording sport to the the barbee. brethren of the angle. 429.—BRILL A LA CONTI. (Fr.—Barbue a la Conti.) Ingredients.—A brill weighing about 2^ lbs., i£ pint of stock. 2 glasses of Burgundy, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Mode.—Skin and clean the fish, cut some slits down the back, and simmer it over a slow fire in the oil, wine, and a teacupfull of stock, salt and pepper. Reduce the rest of the stock to half the quantity, put in the parsley, and pour over the fish. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable from August to April. Sufficient for 6 persons.