75i Stewed Endive. add the cayenne, salt and grated nutmeg; bring it to the point of boiling, and serve. Do not allow the sauce to boil, or it will curdle. This is a favourite dish with lamb or mutton chops, rump-steaks, &c. Time.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Average Cost, from 4d. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in July, August and September; but may be had, forced, from the beginning of the year. The Melon.—This is another species of the cucumber, and is highly esteemed for its rich and delicious fruit. It was introduced to this country from Jamaica in 1570; since which period it has continued to be cultivated. It.was formerly called the musk melon. 1572.—ENDIVE. (Fr.— Chicoree.) This vegetable so beautiful in appearance, makes an excellent addition to winter salad, when lettuces and other salad herbs are not obtainable. It is usually placed in the centre of the dish, and looks remarkably pretty with slices of beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and curled celery placed round it, so that the colours contrast nicely. In preparing it, carefully wash and cleanse it from insects, which are generally found near the heart; remove any decayed or dead leaves, and dry it thoroughly by shaking in a cloth. This vegetable may also be served hot, stewed in cream, brown gravy, or butter; but when dressed thus, the sauce it is stewed in should not be very highly seasoned, as that would destroy and overpower the flavour of the vegetable. Average Cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient.—1 head for a salad for 4 persons. Seasonable from November to March. Endive.—This is the C. eiuiivium of science, and is much used as a salad. It belongs to the family of the Composite, with chicory, common goat’s-beard, and others of the same genus Withering states, that before the steins of the common goat’s-beard shoot up, the roots, boiled like asparagus, have the same flavour, and are nearly as nutritious. We are also informed by Villars that the children in Dauphin^ universally eat the stems and leaves of the young plant before th'e flowers appear, with great avidity. The fresh juice of these tender herbs is said to be the best alvent of bile. 1573.—STEWED ENDIVE. (Fv.—Puree de Chicoree.) Ingredients.—6 heads of endive, salt and water, x pint of broth, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, a small lump of sugar. Mode.—Wash and free the endive thoroughly from insects, remove the green part of the leaves, and put it into boiling water, slightly salted. Let it remain for 10 minutes; then take it out, drain it till there is no water remaining, and chop it very fine. Put it into a stewpan with the broth ; add a little salt and a lump of sugar, and boil until the endive is