117 Preservation of Food. Sal picon.—A mixture of chicken, game, &c., with truffles and foie gras cut into dice and mixed in sauce. Sauce Piquante.—A sharp sauce, in which a somewhat pungent or acid flavour predominates. Sauter.—To dress with butter in a saucepan, repeatedly moving it about. Socles.—Stands used to raise removes and entrees to improve their appear- ance, made of fat, rice, &c. Stock.—The broth of which soups are made. Tam is.—Tammy, a close, cloth sieve through which to strain purees, broth, and sauces. Timbale.—A raised crust or border of pastry or maccaroni filled with meat or game. Tourte (tart).—Fruit pie. Trousser.—To truss a bird ; to put together the body and tie the wings and thighs, in order to round it for roasting or boiling, each being tied then with packthread, to keep it in the re- quired form. Vol-au-vent.—A rich crust of very fine puff-paste, which may be filled with various delicate ragouts or fricassees of fish, flesh or fowl. Fruit, fresh or preserved, may also be inclosed in a vol-au-vent. 241. JEWISH COOKERY. This does not differ very greatly from any other kind, as in many Jewish families we find Christian servants employed, and as people of different religions mingle more freely day by day, many of the restrictions which used to be rigidly observed with regard to food have, to a certain extent, melted away, and are only to the found in the houses of those who are generally denominated strict. From having been forbidden to use butter with meat oil enters more largely into their cookery, and the Jewish fried fish cooked in this has a deservedly good reputation, frying it, as they do, so that it can be eaten cold as well as hot; oil is also used with meat and vegetables. With other recipes we give many Jewish ones which have been tried and found excellent, as their cookery generally is, owing perhaps, to the fact that all meat supplied by Jewish butchers is of the very best quality, as they are forbidden by the Mosaic law to use as food flesh which is not perfectly free from all “spot or blemish.’’ The Jewish smoked beef is most excellent and useful, for it keeps good so long, and is a capital store for gravies and soups, and we give in the body of this book a recipe for cooking it. 242. PRESERVATION OP POOD. An important consideration is, how food may be best preserved with a view to its being suitably dressed. More waste is often occasioned by the want of judg- ment, or of necessary care in this particular, than by any other cause. In the absence of proper places for keeping provisions, a hanging safe, suspended in any airy situation, is the best substitute. A well-ventilated larder, dry and shady, is better for meat and poultry, which require to be kept for some time; and the utmost skill in the culinary art will not compensate for the want of proper attention to this particular. Though it is advisable that animal food should be hung up in the open air till its fibres have lost some degree of their toughness, yet, if it is kept till it loses its natural sweetness, its flavour has become deteriorated, and, as a wholesome comestible, it has lost many of its qualities conducive to health. As soon, there- fore, as the slightest trace of putrescence is detected, it has reached its highest degree of tenderness, and should be dressed immediately. During the sultry summer months, it is difficult to procure meat that is not either tough or tainted. It should, therefore, be well examined when it comes in, and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and the remainder well washed. In very cold weather, meat and vegetables touched by the frost, should be brought into the kitchen early in the morning, and soaked in cold water. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone, should be taken out, as it is apt to taint: as also the kernels