3x6 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 691.—CHESTNUT SAUCE. (Fr.—Puree de Marrons.) (For Fowls or Turkey.) Ingredients.—i lb. of chestnuts, 4 pint of white stock, 2 strips of lemon-peel, cayenne to taste, 4 pint of cream or milk. Mode.—Peel off the outside skin of the chestnuts, and put them into boiling water for a few minutes; take off the thin inside peel, and put them into a saucepan, with the white stock and lemon-peel, and let them simmer for hour, or until the chestnuts are quite tender. Rub the whole through a hair-sieve with a wooden spoon ; add seasoning and the cream ; let it just simmer, but not boil, and keep stirring all the time. Serve very hot, and quickly. If milk is used instead of cream, a very small quantity of thickening may be required : that, of course, the cook will determine. This is suitable for a garnish. Time.—Altogether nearly 2 hours. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient, this quantity, for a turkey. 692.-BROWN CHESTNUT SAUCE. (Fr.—Pur6e de Marrons a I’Espagnole.) Ingredients.—I lb. of chestnuts, £ pint of stock, No. 273, 2 lumps of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of Spanish sauce (see Sauces). Mode.—Prepare the chestnuts as in the foregoing recipe, by scalding and peeling them ; put them in a stewpan with the stock and sugar, and simmer them till tender. When done add Spanish sauce in the above proportion, and rub the whole through a tammy. Keep this sauce rather liquid, as it is liable to thicken. Time.—hour to simmer the chestnuts. Average Cost, 8d. 693.—CHILI VINEGAR. Ingredients.—50 fresh red English chilies, 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.—Pound or cut the chilies in half, and infuse them in the vinegar for a fortnight, when it will be fit for use. This will be found an agreeable relish to fish, as many people cannot eat it without the addition of an acid and cayenne pepper. 694-CHOCOLATE SAUCE. Ingredients.—2 oz. best Vanilla chocolate, k pint cream, 5- pint milk, 4 eggs, sugar to taste. Mode.—Grate the chocolate into a pan containing the milk and cream and add sufficient loaf-sugar to sweeten it. Put it on the fire, and as soon as it boils whisk into it the yolks of the eggs until a good froth is