626 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. TUMBLER PIGEONS. 1319.—PIGEON PIE. (Fr.—Pate aux Pigeons.) (Epsom Grand-Stand Recipe.) Ingredients.—lb. of rump-steak, 2 or 3 pigeons, 3 slices of ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, puff-crust. Mode.—Cut the steak into pieces about 3 inches square, and with it line the bottom of a pie-dish, seasoning it well with pepper and salt. Clean the pigeons, rub them with pepper and salt inside and out, and put into the body of each rather more than half an ounce of butter; lay them on the steak, and a piece of ham on each pigeon. Add the yolks of 4 eggs, and half fill the dish with good stock; place a border of puff-paste round the edge of the dish, put on the cover, and ornament it in any way that may be preferred. Clean the feet, and place them in a hole made in the crust at the top ; this shows what kind of a pie it is. Glaze the crust, that is to say, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake it in a well- heated oven for about hour. When liked, a seasoning of pofinded mace may be added. Time.—i^hour, or rather less. Average Cost, 5s. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Tumbler Pigeons.—The smaller the size of this variety, the greater its value. The head should be round and smooth, the neck thin, and the tail similar to that of the Turbit. Highly bred birds of this variety will attain an elevation in their flight beyond that of any other pigeons; and it is in seeing these little birds wing themselves so far into the skies that the fanciers take such delight. For four or live hours Tumblers have been known to keep on the wing ; and it is when they are almost lost to the power of human vision that they exhibit those pantomimic feats which give them their name, and which are marked by a tumbling over-and-over process, which suggests the idea of their having suddenly become giddy, being deprived of their self-control, or overtaken by some calamity. This acrobatic propensity in these pigeons has been ascribed by some to the absence of a proper power in the tail; but it is nothing more than a natural habit, for which no adequate reason can be assigned. Of thisva- riety the Almond Tumbler is the most beautiful; and the greater the variation of the colour in the flight and tail, the greater their value. The Runt Pigeon.—This is generally esteemed among the largest of the pigeon varieties, and being possessed of proportionate strength, with a strong propensity to exercise it, they keep the dovecot in a state of almost continual commotion by domineering over the weaker inmates. They breed tolerably well, however, and are valuable for the table. There is both the Leghorn and the Spanish Runt, variously plumaged ; but when red, white, or black mottled, are most highly esteemed. One of the great advantages connected with the Runt is that he is not likely to fly away from home. Being heavy birds, they find it difficult, when well fed, to mount even to a low house-top. Again, they require no loft or special dwelling-place, but if properly tended, will be perfectly satisfied and thrive as well in a rabbit* hutch as anywhere. Their flavour is very good ; and it is not an uncommon thing for a squeaker Runt to exceed a pound and quarter in weight.