1239 The Invalid's Cutlet. be put in the broth, and the best pieces reserved for dressing in some other manner. Put the fowl into a jar, with all the ingredients, set it in a saucepan of water and simmer gently for 5 hours, carefully skimming the broth well. When done, strain, and put by in a cool place until wanted ; then take all the fat off the top, warm up as much as may be required, and serve. This broth is, of course, only for those invalids whose stomachs are strong enough to digest it, with a flavouring of herbs, &c. It may be made in the same manner as beef-tea, with water and salt only ; but the preparation will be buf tasteless and insipid. When the invalid cannot digest this chicken broth with the flavouring, we would recommend plain beef-tea in preference to plain chicken tea, which it would be without the addition of herbs, onions, &c. Time.—1| hour. Sufficient to make rather more than 1 pint of broth. Note.—A stronger “ chicken flavour” is obtained by previously roasting the fowl for 20 minutes before placing it in the saucepan. 2792.—NUTRITIOUS COFFEE. Ingredients.—I oz. of ground coffee, 1 pint of milk. Mode.—Let the coffee be freshly ground ; put it into a saucepan with the milk, which should be made nearly boiling before the coffee is put in, and boil both together for 3 minutes ; clear it by pouring some of it into a cup, and then back again, and leave it on the hob for a few minutes to settle thoroughly. This coffee may be made still more nutritious by the addition of an egg well beaten, and put into the coffee-cup. Our great nurse, Miss Nightingale, remarks, “ that a great deal too much against tea is said by wise people, and a great deal too much of tea is given to the sick by foolish people. When you see the natural and almost universal craving in English sick for their ' tea,’ you can- not but feel that Nature knows wbat she is about. But a little tea or coffee restores them quite as much as a great deal; and a great deal of tea, and especially of coffee, impairs the little power of digestion they have. Yet a nurse, because she sees how one or two cups of tea or coffee restore her patient, thinks that three or four cups will do twice as much. This is not the case at all; it is, however, certain that there is nothing yet discovered which is a substitute to the English patient for his cup of tea; he can take it when he can take nothing else, and he often can’t take anything else, it he has it not. Coffee is a better restorative than tea, but a greater impairer of the digestion. In making coffee, it is absolutely necessary to buy it in the berry, and grind it at home; otherwise, you may reckon upon its containing a certain amount of chicory, at least. This is not a question of the taste, or of the wholesomeness of chicory ; it is, that chicory has nothing at all of the properties for which you give coffee, and, therefore, you may as well not give it. 2793.—THE INVALID’S CUTLET. ingredients.—1 nice cutlet from a loin or neck of mutton, 2 teacupfuls of water, 1 very small stick of celery, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have the cutlet cut from a very nice loin or neck of mutton ; take off all the fat; put it into a stewpan, with the other ingredients; stew very gently indeed for nearly 2 hours, and skim off every particle of FEEDING-BOAT.