884 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 1884. -MEAT OR SAUSAGE ROLLS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of puff-paste, No. 1675, sausage-meat, and the yolk of 1 egg. Mode.—1 lb. of puff-paste by recipe No. 1675 ; roll it out to the thickness of about half an inch, or rather less, and divide it into 8, 10, or 12 squares, according to the size the rolls are intended to be. Place some sausage- meat on one-half of each square, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it over the meat ; slightly press the edges together, and trim them neatly with a knife. Brush the rolls over with the yolk of an egg, and bake them in a well-heated oven for about half an hour, or longer should they be very large. The remains of cold chicken and ham, minced and seasoned, as also cold veal or beef, make very good rolls. Time.—h hour, or longer if the rolls are large. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient.—1 lb. of paste for 10 or 12 rolls. Seasonable, with sausage-meat, from September to March or April. 1885. —SOMERSETSHIRE PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—3 eggs, their weight in flour, pounded sugar and butter, flavouring of grated lemon-rind, bitter almonds, or essence of vanilla. Mode.—Carefully weigh the various ingredients, by placing on one side of the scales the eggs, and 011 the other the flour; then the sugar, and then the butter. Warm the butter, and with the hands beat it to a cream ; gradually dredge in the flour and pounded sugar, and keep stirring and beating the mixture without ceasing until it is perfectly smooth. Then add the eggs, which should be well whisked, and either of the above flavourings that may be preferred ; butter some small cups, rather more than half fill them, and bake in a brisk oven for about half an hour. Turn them out, dish them on a napkin, and serve custard or wine-sauee with them. A pretty little supper dish may be made of these puddings, cold, by cutting out a portion of the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity a little whipped cream or delicate preserve, such as apricot, greengage, or very bright marmalade. The paste for these puddings requires a great deal of mixing, as the more it is beaten the better will the puddings be. When served cold, they are usually called gateaux a la Madeleine. Time.—l hour. Average Cost, rod. Sufficient for 6 or 7 puddings. Seasonable at any time. 1886.—SUET PUDDING. (To Serve with Roast Meat.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, | saltspoonful of salt, b saltspoonful of pepper, 4 pint of milk or water.