1640 Legal Memoranda. under twelve months of infants registered by such registrar since the date of his previous list. The vaccination officer is required to see that all infants are vaccinated, and to prosecute for non-compliance. When any Poor Law medical officer attends a case of small-pox in his official capacity, and he discovers that any person or persons resident in the same house (not having already had small-pox) has or have in his opinion never been vac- cinated, or need re-vaccination, he is authorised there and then to vaccinate or re-vaccinate any or every such person or persons, and is entitled to a fee from the guardians for each case as if he were a public vaccinator. Every certificate by a public vaccinator that a child is unfit for vaccination is to be delivered by such public vaccinator to the vaccination officer. Every certificate by a private practitioner that a child is unfit for vaccination must be delivered by the parent to the vaccination officer within seven days after date, and the officer is required to give (without fee or charge) a dupli- cate of such certificate. Certificates of successful vaccination are to be delivered to the vaccination officer within seven days after date, subject to duplicates gratis as for certificates of unfitness. In cases of re-vaccination (gratis) by a public vaccinator, the case must be submitted to such vaccinator for inspection in a week afterwards, otherwise the responsible party is liable to the vaccinator or guardians for half-a-crown. If a child is submitted to a public vaccinator, and he, on examination, is satis- fied that such child has already been successfully vaccinated, he is authorised to give a certificate of vaccination, though the process was not performed by him. Every person who prevents any public vaccinator from taking lymph from a child whom he has vaccinated gratis, is liable to a penalty of 20s. Proceedings under the Act must be before a stipendiary magistrate or two justices. A person prosecuted for one offence or omission under the Act, though proved innocent of that, may be convicted at the same hearing of any other offence or omisssion under the Act, if admitted or proved, though no mention or hint of such latter offence or omission appear in the summons. The defendant in any proceedings under the Vaccination Acts may appear by “any member" of his family or “ any other person ” authorised by him in that behalf. Proceedings must be taken within twelve months after the alleged offence or omission. 3732. Settlements.—A settlement is a sum of money or any kind of pro- perty made over to a trustee or trustees, to be appropriated as directed by the will or deed which creates the settlement. Settlements by will, in the ordinary course, are usually to provide for cer- tain persons during their lives, the property being distributed to prescribed persons on the death of the person for whose benefit the settlement was created. Marriage Settlements are usually designed to provide for the wife in case of the husband's misfortunes, or to ensure to the child or children of the mar- riage the means of living, of which their parents cannot then deprive them. When landed property is so settled upon the heirs of the marriage, it creates an entail upon the eldest son, by primogeniture, unless anything otherwise be expressed. Effective Promises.—If, during a courtship, any person writes to either of the parties that he will settle property in consideration of the marriage, and the promise is not recalled before the marriage, the undertaking is binding, and the person who so wrote can be compelled, after the marriage, to execute a