Gravy without Meat. 289 onions or flour, tomatoes, or sauce, it is far preferable. As, however, in cooking, so much depends upon appearance, perhaps it would be as well for the inexperienced cook to use the artificial means (No. 281). When no browning is at hand, and you wish to heighten the colour of your gravy, dissolve a lump of sugar in an iron spoon over a sharp fire; when it is in a liquid state, drop it into the sauce or gravy quite hot. Care, howevei, must be taken not to put in too much, as it would impart a very disagreeable flavour. Another plan, and a good one, is to chop some onions and fry them dark brown in a little butter or dripping before beginning to make tho sauce. They can be strained out afterwards. Half an ounce of flour fried dark brown in half an ounce of butter or fat can also be used. Onion skins contain much colouring matter and are useful for this purpose. In no case should a sauce intended to be brown be sent to table grey. 617.-A CHEAP GRAVY FOR HASHES, &c. (Fr.— Jus de Menage.) Ingredients.—Bones and trimmings of the cooked joint intended for hashing, $ teaspoonful of salt, | teaspoonful of whole pepper, \ teaspoon- ful of whole allspice, a small faggot of savoury herbs, ± head of celery, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, flour, sufficient water to cover the bones. Mode.—Chop the bones in small pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with the trimmings, salt, pepper, spice, herbs and celery. Cover with boiling water, and let the whole boil for two or three hours. Slice and fry the onion in the butter till it is of a pale brown, and mix in flour in the proportion of 1 dessertspoonful to half a pint of gravy; add the gravy made from the bones ; boil for a quarter of an hour, and flavour with emon-peel, anchovy sauce, walnut pickle or ketchup, pickled-onion liquor, or any store-sauce that may be preferred. Strain, and the gravy will be ready for use. A bacon bone or rind is an improvement. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average Cost, 4d., exclusive of the bones and trimmings. 618.—GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT FOR FOWLS. (Fr.—Jus de Volaille.) Ingredients.—The necks, feet, livers and gizzards of the fowls, 1 slice of toasted bread, i onion, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, | pint of water, thickening of butter and flour, 1 dessertspoonful of ketchup.