Waiting at Table. 1401 able, and his gloves are without a stain, he announces in the drawing-room that dinner is served, and stands respectfully by the door until the company are seated : he places himself on the left, behind his master, who is to distribute the soup ; where soup and fish are served together, his place will be at his mistress’s left hand ; but he must be on the alert to see that whoever is assisting him, whether male or female, are at their posts. If any of the guests has brought his own servant with him, his place is behind his master’s chair, rendering such assistance to others as he can, while attending to his master’s wants throughout the dinner, so that every guest has what he requires. This necessitates both activity and intelligence, and should be done without bustle, without asking any questions, except where it is the custom of the house to hand round dishes or wine, when it will be necessary to mention, in a quiet or unobtrusive manner, che dish or wine presented. While attentive to all, the footman should be obtru- sive to none; he should give nothing but on a waiter, and always hand it with the left hand and on the left side of the person he serves, and hold it so that the guest may take it with ease. In lifting dishes from the table, he should use both hands, and remove them with care, so that nothing is spilt on the table cloth or on the dresses of the guests. In opening wine, let it be done quietly, and without shaking the bottle ; if crusted, let it be inclined to the crusted side, and decanted while in that position. In opening champagne, it is not necessary to discharge it with a pop ; properly cooled, the cork is easily extracted without any explosion ; when the cork is out, the mouth of the bottle should be wiped with a napkin. At the end of the first course, notice is conveyed to the cook, who is waiting to send up the second, which is introduced in the same way as before ; the attendants who remove the fragments carrying the dishes from the kitchen, and handing them to the foot- men or butler, whose duty it is to arrange them on the table. After dinner, the dessert-glasses and wines are placed on the table by the footman, who places himself behind his master’s chair, to supply wine and hand round the ices and other refreshments, all other servants leaving the room. As soon as the drawing-room bell rings for tea, the footman enters with the _ tray, which has been previously prepared ; hands the tray round to the company, with cream and sugar, the tea and coffee being generally poured out, while another attendant hands cakes, toast, or biscuits. If it is an ordinary family party, where this social meal is prepared by the mistress, he carries the urn or kettle, as the case may be; hands round the toast, or such other eatable as may be required removing the whole in the same manner when tea is over. WICKER PLATE-CARRIER. 3238. Jtecej>tions and Evening Parties.— The drawing-rooms being prepared, the card-tables laid out with cards and counters, and such other arrangements as are necessary made for the reception of the company, the rooms should be lighted up as the hour appointed approaches. Attendants in the drawing-room, even more than in the dining-room, should move about actively but noiselessly ; no creaking of shoes, which is an abomina- tion ; watching the lights from time to time, so as to keep up their brilliancy. But CRUMB SCOOP.