Conger Eel. 225 tinued body, moving briskly up against the stream. To avoid the retardment they experienced from the force of the current, they kept close along the water’s edge the whole of the way, follow- ing all the bendings and sinuosities of the river. When they were embayed, and in still water, the shoal dilated in breadth, so as to be sometimes nearly a foot broad; but when they turned a cape, where the current was strong, they were forced to occupy less space, and press close to the shore, struggling very hard till they passed it. The shoal continued to move on, night and day, without interruption, for several weeks. Their progress might be at the rate of about a mile an hour. It was easy to catch the animals, though they were very active and nimble. They were eels perfectly well-formed in every respect, but not exceeding two inches in length. I conceive that the shoal did not contain, on an average, less than from twelve to twenty in breadth ; so that the number that passed on the whole, must have been very great. Whence they came, or whither they went, I know not; but the place where I saw this was six miles from the sea." 465.—EEL PIE. (Fr.—Pat6 aux Anguilles.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of eels, a little chopped parsley, x shalot; grated nutmeg ; pepper and salt to taste ; the juice of £ a lemon, small quantity of force-meat, £ pint of bechamel (see Sauces); puff paste. Mode.—Skin and wash the eels, cut them into pieces 2 inches long, and line the bottom of the pie-dish with force-meat. Put in the eels, and sprinkle them with the parsley, shalot, nutmeg, seasoning and lemon- juice, and cover with puff-paste. Bake for 1 hour, or rather more ; make the bechamel hot, and pour it into the pie. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Seasonable all the year. 466. —CONGER EEL. (Fr— Congre, Anguille de Mer.) This fish is much esteemed by many persons. It forms the basis pf the well-known soup of the Channel Islands, and is made into pies in the West of England. It always needs long stewing or cooking, like a tough steak, as the flesh is remarkably firm and hard. It can be Cooked like fresh-water eels. 467. —COLLARED EEL. (Fr.—Anguille en Galantine.) Ingredients.—1 large eel; pepper and salt to taste ; 2 blades of mace, 2 cloves, a little allspice very finely pounded, 6 leaves of sage, and a small bunch of herbs minced very small. Mode.—Bone the eel and skin it; split it and sprinkle it over with the ingredients, taking care that the spices are very finely pounded, and the herbs chopped very small. Roll it up, beginning at the head end, and bind with a broad piece of tape, and boil it in water, mixed with a little salt and vinegar, till tender. Put a weight on it till it is cold, and let the join come underneath. When cold take the tape off. Glaze and garnish it. It may either be served whole or cut in slices; and when cold, the eel should be kept in the liquor it was boiled in, but with a little more vinegar put to it. Conger is good served this way.