The Ilomceopathist. i6i6 3673. The Principle of Homoeopathy.—It is possible that some persons may entertain an idea that the medicines given by the homceopathist would produce in a healthy person precisely the same diseases as those which they are given to counteract in any one suffering from disease. This is altogether erroneous for the symptoms produced by any particular drug or medicine in a healthy person are only similar or like those resulting from the disease itself, and not in any way the same as the symptoms excited by the disease or identical with them. It must be noted that the great principle of homoeopathy is that Likes cure likes, not that Identicals cure identicals, and this must never be lost sight of. “ Homoeopathy,” to quote the words of Dr. Richard Epps, “is the practical application of the law, Likes are cured by likes, to the cure of disease. This law as an axiom would read, It is impossible for two similar diseases to exist in the same individual and at the same time.” The morbific matter, state or condition, call it which you will, which has caused the disease, or generated the sickly state into which the patient has lapsed, is counteracted and neutralised by the action of the drug which, in a healthy person, would produce symptoms similar to, but not identical with, those which are excited by the disease. 3674. The Principle Supported.—The principle of homoeopathy having been enunc ated, it is now desirable to see if any results of general ex- perience can be cited in its support. In the case, for example, of a severe burn is it the custom to apply cooling lotions or any substance that happens to be a good conductor of heat to the part affected? Certainly not, must be the reply ; for although cooling applications of any kind may be soothing for a time and a source of comfort to the sufferer, it is well known that they tend to increase inflammation in the long run and t© render the pain of the burn more acutely felt. Then the theory that, “ Opposites are cured by opposites ” does not hold good in this case. No ; but the contrary theory that “ Likes are cured by likes” does most assuredly, for such burns are most quickly cured by the application of oil of turpentine or heated spirits of wine, both of which, when applied to the skin, cause a burning or tingling sensation, and by wrapping the part affected with wadding or cotton wool which is a good non-conductor of heat, and maintains warmth in the part burnt, preventing the atmospheric air from obtain- ing free access to it. Again, in cases of frost-bite the best thing to be done is to rub the part that is frost-bitten with snow, which is frozen water, and not to hold it to the fire or bathe it with warm water, which would spoil any chance that might otherwise exist of restoring the injured part to its former condition. Now what are these but direct evidence in favour of the homoeopathic theory “ Likes are cured by likes,” and in opposition to the allopathic theory that “ Opposites are cured by opposites.” 3675. The Practice of Homoeopathy.—At the introduction of homoeopathy it was the general practice of medical men who favoured and adopted the new theory to give medicines in the doses usually employed, but it was found that these acted too powerfully, and thus did injury, because patients who exhibited the morbid symptoms of the disease to counteract which the drugs were given, were all the more disposed to yield to the medicinal effects of the drugs themselves, which, as experience soon showed, were not required in such strong doses. Hence the quantities given were gradually reduced until a minimum was attained, which was possessed of power sufficient to counteract the morbid symptoms and effect a cure, without causing inconvenience, and often suffering, by excess of medicinal action. Thus it is that small doses have become the rule in homoeopathic practice, not because large doses would fail to effect a cure, but because when it was discpvered that small doses would do the work as well and even better, it was doing harm to the patient and really wasting power to persevere in a course which was found to be altogether unnecessary,