368 Various Modes of Cooking Meat. with copper, food may become poisonous. The kettle in which a joint is dressed should be large enough to allow room for a good supply of water. 828. In Steivinq it is not requisite to have so great a heat as in boil- ing. A gentle simmering in a small quantity of water, so that the meat is stewed almost in its own juices, is all that is necessary. It is a method much used on the Continent, and is wholesome and economical. Two useful culinary vessels are represented here. One is a boiling-pot in which large joints may be boiled; the other is a stewpan, with a closely-fitting lid, to which is attached a long handle, so that the cover can be removed without scalding the fingers. 829. The Hot-plate is a modern improvement on the old kitchen being used for boiling and stewing. It is a plate of cast-iron having a closed fire burning beneath it, by which it is thoroughly well heated. On this plate are set the various sauce- pans, stewpans, &c.; and, by this convenient and economical method, a number of dishes may be prepared at one time. The heat being small, the processes of braising and stewing are gradual and consequently the substances acted on become more tender, and the gravy is not so much reduced. ranges, HOT-PLATE. BROILING. 830. Broiling. Generally speaking, small dishes only are prepared by this mode of cooking ; amongst these, the beef-steak and mutton chop of the solitary English diner may be mentioned as cele- brated all the world over. Our beef-steak, indeed, has long crossed the Channel ; and, with a view of pleasing the Britons, there is in every carte at every French restaurant, by the side of a la Jar dineve, and a la Finan- ciers—biftek a I'Anglaise. In order to succeed in a broil, the cook must have a bright, clear fire ; so that the surface of the meat may be quickly heated. The result of this is the same as that obtained in roasting; namely, a crust, so to speak, is formed out- side, and thus the juices of the meat are retained. The appetite of an invalid, so difficult to minister to, is often pleased with a broiled dish, as the flavour and sapidity of the meat are so well preserved. 831. —The Utensils used for Broiling need but little description. The common gridiron, used in all our kitchens, is the same as it has been for ages REVOLVING GRIDIRON.