iooo Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. 2161.-GOOSEBERRY JAM. {Another Mode.) Ingredients.—To every 8 lbs. of red, rough, ripe gooseberries, allow 1 quart of red-currant juice, 5 lbs. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Have the fruit gathered in dry weather, and cut off the tops and tails. Prepare 1 quart of red-currant juice, the same as for red- currant jelly, No. 2143 ; put it into a preserving-pan with the sugar and keep stirring until the latter is dissolved. Keep it boiling for about 5 minutes; skim well ; then put in the gooseberries, and let them boil from half to three-quarters of an hour; then turn the whole into an earthen pan and let it remain for 2 days. Boil the jam up again until it looks clear; put it into pots, and when cold, cover with oiled paper, and over the jars put tissue paper, brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, and store away in a dry place. Care must be taken in making this to keep the jam well stirred and well skimmed, to prevent it burning at the bottom of the pan, and to have it very clear. Time.—5 minutes to boil the currant-juice and sugar, after the latter is dissolved; from £ to f hour to simmer the gooseberries the first time, i hour the second time of boiling. Average Cost, from 8d. to 10d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow pint of fruit for a lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in June or July. 2162.—WHITE OR GREEN GOOSEBERRY JAM. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fruit and sugar. Mode.—Select the gooseberries not very ripe, either white or green, and top and tail them. Boil the sugar with water (allowing half a pint to every lb.) for about a quarter of an hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises; then put in the gooseberries, and simmer gently till clear and firm; try a little of the jam on a plate; if it jellies when cold it is done, and should be poured into pots. When cold, cover with oiled paper, and tissue paper, brushed over on both sides with the unbeaten white of an egg, and store away in a dry place. Time.—\ hour to boil the sugar and water, | hour the jam. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow pint of fruit for a lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in June. 2163.—GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Ingredients.—Gooseberries ; to every pint of juice allow £ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Put the gooseberries, after cutting off the tops and tails, into