508 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. hours, to get rid of the blood ; put it into a saucepan, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and, when it boils, add the vegetables, peeled and sliced, and the remaining ingredients; before adding the oatmeal, mix it to a smooth batter with a little of the liquor. Keep stirring till it boils up ; then shut the saucepan closely, and let it stew gently for an hour and a half or two hours. It may be thickened with rice or barley, but oatmeal is preferable. Time.—ih or 2 hours. Average Coat, td. each. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Singed Sheep's Head.—The village of Dudingston, which stands “ within a mile of Edinburgh town,” was formerly celebrated for this ancient and homely Scottish dish. In the summer months, many opulent citizens used to resort to this place to solace themselves over singed sheep’s heads, boiled or baked. The sheep fed upon the neighbouring hills were slaughtered at tuis village, and the carcasses were sent to town ; but the heads were ieft to be consumed in the place. We are not aware whether the custom of eating sheep's heads at Dudingston is still kept up by the good folks of Edinburgh. m2.—TOAD IN-THE-HOLE. (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of flour, I pint of milk, 3 eggs, a few slices of cold mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 kidneys. Mode.—Make a smooth batter of flour, milk and eggs in the above proportion; butter a baking-dish, and pour in the batter. Into this place a few slices of cold mutton, previously well seasoned, and the kid- neys, which should be cut into rather small pieces ; bake about one hour, or rather longer, and send it to table in the dish it was baked in. Oysters or mushrooms may be substituted for the kidneys, and will be found ex- ceedingly good. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 9d. Seasonable at any time. 1113.-COLD LAMB RE DRESSED. Ingredients.—Cold roast lamb, bread-crumbs, parsley, yolks of 2 eggs, i pint of gravy, lemon-juice, nutmeg, £ lb. of butter. Mode.—Trim the slices as before, then lay them in a mixture of chopped parsley, bread-crumbs and the beaten yolks of the eggs. Then fry of a pale golden brown in butter, and dish with gravy into which a few drops of lemon-juice and some grated nutmeg have been stirred. Time.—15 minutes. Average Cost, 8d., exclusive of meat, Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable.—Easter to Michaelmas.