New Freezing Machines. 1051 using, even with the greatest care, and, as they are rather costly to buy, it is usually better to freeze on the old lines, with ice and salt. 2284. Freezing Machines.—Many freezing machines are now sold that save much trouble in ice-making. The outer compartment reeds to be packed with ice, and in the inner receptacle the mixture to be frozen is placed. The machine is then closed, and by means of a pivot, or a handle, or some other con- trivance, the whole thing is turned about, until the cream or water begins to freeze, with very much less labour than is necessary to turn about the old fashioned pewter pot, set upright in the middle of a pail. Much less ice is needed for a well- constructed machine than is used with an open pail. Some freezing machines are constructed after the manner of a churn, and instead of turning the whole machine about, the contents of the pot are stirred by a rod or piston. 2285. To make Ices.—Water ices are made of syrup, with fruit juice or other flavouring; cream ices of cream, milk, or custard, or all three, mixed with an addition of fruit or essences, and sometimes of bread or cake-crumbs, or other farinacea. Many so-called cream ices are made of corn-flour and milk, or water, and are entirely innocent of any suspicion of cream. The more water and the less cream they contain, the easier are ices to freeze. If it is desired to make a mould of ice of two colours, the two must first be frozen separately, then a piece of metal or cardboard fixed across the mould which is to be filled. Put in the ice, one sort on each side, withdraw the card- board, and set the mould on ice till wanted for use. 2286. The new freezing machines have nearly superseded the old method of freezing, but for icing without these convenient machines the principal utensils required are ice-tubs, freezing-pots, spaddles, and a cellaret. The tub must be large enough to contain about a bushel of ice, pounded small, when brought out of the ice-house, and mixed very carefully with either salt, nitre, or soda. The freezing.pot is best made of pewter. If it be of tin, as is sometimes the case, the congelation goes on too rapidly in it for the thorough intermingling of its contents, on which the excellence of the ice greatly depends. The spaddle is generally made of copper, kept bright and clean. The cellaret is a tin vessel, in which ices are kept for a short time from dissolving. The method to be pursued in the freezing process must be attended to. When the ice-tub is pre- pared with fresh-pounded ice and salt, the freezing-pot is put into it up to its cover. The articles to be congealed are then poured into it and covered over ; but to prevent the ingredients from separating and the heaviest of them from falling to the bottom of the mould, it is requisite to turn the freezing-pot round and round by the handle, so as to keep its contents moving until the congelation commences. As soon as this is perceived (the cover of the pot being occasionally taken off for the purpose of noticing when freezing takes place), the cover is immediately closed over it, ice is put upon it, and it is left in this state till it is served. The use of the spaddle is to stir up and remove from the sides of the freezing-pot the cream, which in the shaking may have washed against it, and by stirring it in with the rest, to prevent waste of it occurring. Any negligence in stirring the contents of the freezing-pot before congelation takes place will destroy the whole: either the sugar sinks to the bottom and leaves the ice in- sufficiently sweetened, or lumps are formed, which disfigure and discolour it. Ices should be taken after food, because the taking these substances during the process of digestion is apt to retard it. It is also necessary to abstain from them when persons are very warm, or immediately after taking violent exercise, as in some cases they have produced illnesses which have ended fatally. At no time can they be said to be very wholesome. Ices are said to have been introduced by Catherine de'Medici in the sixteenth century.