/20 General Observations on Vegetables. a matter of surprise, when we recollect that, so far as it is at present known, the vegetable kingdom is composed of upwards of 92,000 species of plants. Of this amazing number the lichens and the mosses are of the simplest and hardiest kinds. These, indeed, may be considered as the very creators of the soil: they thrive in the coldest and more sterile regions, many of them commencing the operations of nature in the growth of vegetables on the barest rocks, and re- ceiving no other nourishment than such as may be supplied to them by the simple elements of air and rain. They pass into a state of decay, and sustain other species, which in their turn become food for various mosses, and also rot. This process of growth and decay, being continued, by-and-by forms a soil suffi- cient for the maintenance of larger plants, which also die and decay, and so increase the soil, until it becomes deep enough to sustain an oak, or even the weight of a tropical forest. Different kinds of lichen minister to the elegant arts, in the form of beautiful dyes; thus the lichen rocella is used to communicate to silk and wool various shades of purple and crimson, which greatly enhance the value of these materials. This species is chiefly imported from the Canary Islands, and when scarce, as an article of commerce has brought as much as £1,000 per ton. Iceland moss, lichen islandicus, is used not only medicinally, but as food. 1507. In the Vicinity of Lichens, the Musci, or Mosses, are generally to be found. Indeed, wherever vegetation can be sustained, there they are, affording protection to the roots and seeds of more delicate vegetables, and, by their spongy texture, retaining a moisture which preserves other plants from the withering drought of summer. But even in winter we find them en- livening, by their verdure, the cold bosom of Nature. We see them abounding in our pastures and our woods, attaching themselves to the living, and still more abundantly to the dead, trunks and branches of trees. In marshy places they also abound, and become the medium of their conversion into fruitful fields. This is exemplified by the manner in which peat-mosses are formed; on the surface of these we find them in a state of great life and vigour; immediately below we discover them, more or less, in a state of decomposition; and, still deeper, we find their stems and branches consolidated into a light brown peat. Thus are extensive tracts formed, ultimately to be brought into a state of culti- vation, and rendered subservient to the wants of man. 1508. When Nature has found a Soil, her next care is to perfect the growth of her seeds, and then to disperse them. Whilst the seed remains confined in its capsule, it cannot answer its purpose; when it is sufficiently ripe, the pericardium opens and lets it out. What must strike every observer with surprise is, how nuts and shells, which we can hardly crack with our teeth, or even with a hammer, will divide of themselves, and make way for the little tender sprout which proceeds from the kernel. There are instances, it is said, such as in the Touch-me-not (impatiens), and the Cuckoo-flower (cavdamine), in which the seed-vessels, by an elastic jerk at the moment of their explosion, cast the seeds to a distance. We are all aware, however, that many seeds—those of the most composite flowers, as of the thistle and dandelion—are endowed with, what have not been inappropriately called wings. These consist of a beautiful silk-looking down, by which they are enabled to float in the air, and to be transported, sometimes, to considerable distances from the parent plant that produced them. The swelling of this downy tuft within the seed-vessel is the means by which the seed is enabled to overcome the resistance of its coats, and to force for itself a passage by which it escapes from its little prison-house. 1509. Birds, as well as Quadrupeds, are likewise the means of dis- persing the seeds of plants, and placing them in situations where they ultimately