Apple Jelly. 985 2124.-APPLE JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed after being pared, cored and sliced, allow | lb. of preserving sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, the juice of half a lemon. Mode.—Peel the apples, core and slice them very thin, and be par- ticular that they are all of the same sort. Put them into a jar, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the apples stew until quite tender. Previously to putting the fruit into the jar, weigh it, to ascertain the proportion of sugar that may be required. Put the apples into a pre- serving-pan, crush the sugar to small lumps, and add it, with the grated lemon-rind and juice, to the apples. Simmer these over the fire for half an hour, reckoning from the time the jam begins to simmer properly; remove the scum as it rises, and when the jam is done, put it into pots for use. Place a piece of oiled paper over the jam, and to ex- clude the air, cover the pots with tissue-paper dipped in the white of an egg, and stretched over the top. This jam will keep good for a long time. Time.—About 2 hours to stew in the jar; £ hour to boil after the jam begins to simmer. Seasonable.—Make this in September, October, or November. 2125.-APPLE JELLY. Ingredients.—To 6 lbs. of apples allow 3 pints of water; to every quart of juice allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar ; the juice of half a lemon. Mode.—Pare, core and cut the apples into slices, and put them into a jar, with water in the above proportion. Place them in a cool oven, with the jar well covered, and when the juice is thoroughly drawn and the apples are quite soft, strain them through a jelly-bag. To every quart of juice allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, which should be crushed to small lumps and put into a preserving-pan with the juice. Boil these together for rather more than half an hour, remove the scum as it rises, add the lemon juice just before it is done, and put the jelly into pots for use. This preparation is useful for garnishing sweet dishes, and may be turned out for dessert. Time.—The apples to be put in the oven over-night, and left till morning ; rather more than \ hour to boil the jelly. A\*erage Cost, for this quantity, 2s. gd. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. Seasonable.—This should be made in September, October, or No- vember.