Advice to Cooks and Kitchen-maids; 97 193. Duties of the Kitchen-maid.—Whilst the cook is engaged with her morning duties, the kitchen or scullery-maid is also occupied with hers. Her first duty, after the fire is lighted, is to sweep and clean the kitchen and the various offices belonging to it. This she does every morning, besides cleaning the stone steps at the entrance of the house, the halls, the passages, and the stairs which lead to the kitchen. Her general duties, besides these, are to wash and scour all these places twice a week, with the table, shelves, and cupboards. She has also to attend to the nursery and servants’-hall dinners while cooking, to prepare all fish, poultry, and vegetables, trim meat-joints and cutlets, and do all such duties as may be considered to enter into the cook’s department in a sub- ordinate degree. The duties of the kitchen or scullery-maid, in short, are to assist the cook in everything in which she may require aid ; to keep the scullery clean, and all the metallic as well as earthenware kitchen utensils. The duties of a kitchen-maid and scullery-maid are almost identical, and the only reason that apparently exists for retaining the two names is that in large establishments, where two kitchen- maids are kept, it is useful to distinguish them as kitchen-maid and scullery-maid, the former doing the cleaner, and the latter the dirtier work of the kitchen. The position of kitchen or scullery-maid is not, of course, one of high rank, nor Is the pay- ment for her services large. But if she be fortunate enough to have over her a kind and clever cook she may very soon learn to perform various little duties connected with cooking operations, which may be of considerable service in fitting her for a more responsible plaoe. Now, it will be doubtless thought by the majority of our readers that the fascinations connected with the position of the kitchen-maid are not so great as to induce many people to leave a comfortable home in older to wofk in a scullery. But we are acquainted with one instance in which the desire, on the part of a young girl, was so strong to become connected with the kitchen and cookery, that she absolutely left her parents, and engaged herself as a scullery-maid in a gentleman’s house. Here she showed herself so active and intelligent that she very quickly rose to the position of cook ; and from this, so great was her gastronomical genius, she became, in a short space of time, one of the best women cooks in England. After this, we think, it must be allowed that a cook, like a poet, nascitur, non fit. ADVICE TO COOKS AND KITCHEN-MAIDS. 194. Importance of Cooking.—No matter how large the establishment, no person holds a more important post than the cook, for with her rests not only the comfort but the health of those she serves, and we would warn all cooks not to make light of their responsibilities, but to study diligently the tastes and wishes of all those for whom they have to prepare food. When it happens that these are persons in delicate health or with poor appetites this is more especially necessary, but in every case it is only right. Try and realise for yourselves the importance of your post. No matter whether your employers be hard working in literary, professional, or business pursuits, or lead a comparatively easy life of pleasure ; whether they have poor appetites or large ones, good cooking of their food is absolutely necessary to their health, while in the case of children it is of vital importance. Make a rule never to send up to table anything which is not thoroughly well cooked. Do not regard this as an impossibility, for it is not one. If you are told to prepare anything which you feel you do not know how to do, have the courage to say so and ask the mistress’s advice. How many dishes, if not dinners, have been spoilt because cooks have been too proud to confess ignorance of any subject in culinary art! Accidents, of course, will happen (though but rarely with proper precautions); fires will not always burn, nor ovens bake as they should ; but if the joint, or whatever it may be, cannot be done to time, do not send it up raw, but ask for a little grace ; while if anything is really spoilt (as even with care it sometimes mav be) confess the fact, and do not send up a dish that is calculated to take away people’s appetites, or to disagree with them if they partake of it. E