1142 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. beat the cake well for a quarter of an hour. Put it into a buttered mould strewn with a little finelysifted sugar, and bake the cake in a quick oven for hour. Care must be taken that it is put into the oven immediately, or it will not be light. The flavouring of this cake may be varied by adding a few drops of essence of almonds instead of the grated lemon-rind. Time.—1| hour. Average Cost, is. zd. Sufficient for 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. The Egyptian, or Mummy Wheat, is not grown to any great extent, owing to its inferior quality ; but it is notable for its large produce, and is often cultivated on allotment grouods and on small farms, where quantity rather than quality is desired. At Wix, in Essex, the seed of this wheat has produced, without artificial assistance, four thousandfold ; some of the ears have had eleven offshoots, and have contained, altogether, eleven grains in one ear. 2537— SPONGE CAKE. [A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—| lb. of loaf sugar, not quite | pint of water, 5 eggs, 1 lemon, ^ lb. of flour, 4 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Boil the sugar and water together until they form a thick syrup ; let it cool a little, then pour it to the eggs, which should be previously well whisked; and after the eggs and syrup are mixed together, continue beating them for a few minutes. Grate the lemon-rind, mix the carbonate of soda with the flour, and stir these lightly to the other ingredients; then add the lemon-juice, and, w hen the whole is thoroughly mixed, pour it into a buttered mould, and bake in rather a quick oven for rather more than 1 hour. The remains of sponge or Savoy cakes answer very well for trifles, light puddings, &c; and a very stale one (if not mouldy) makes an excellent tipsy-cake. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient to make 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. 2538- SPONGE CAKE. Ingredients.—Take 6 very fresh eggs; the weight of 5 of them in powdered sugar, and of 3 in very fine dry flour, rind of 1 lemon. Mode.— Put the sugar into a shallow, flat-bottomed dish, and break the eggs on to it, being careful to remove the white gummy part that will be seen on the yolk of each, as this always makes a cake heavy. Add to this the grated rind of a small lemon, and beat the sponge cake. whole for so minutes. The best whisk, for this purpose, \s tha,t in the form, flour, &c., and EGYPTIAN WHEAT.