Roast Sturgeon. 265 reckoned extremely delicious, and, in the time of the Emperor Severus, was so highly valued by the ancients, that it was brought to table by servants crowned with coronets, and preceded by a band of music. It is an inhabitant of the Baltic, the Mediterranean, the Caspian and the Black Sea, and of the Danube, the Volga, the Don, and other large rivers. It is abundant in the STURGEON. rivers of North America, and is occasionally taken in the Thames, as well as in the Eske and the Eden. It is one of those fishes considered as royal property. It is from its roe that caviare is prepared. Its flesh is delicate, firm and white, but is rare in the London market. The Sterlet is a smaller species of sturgeon, found in the Caspian Sea and some Russian rivers. It also is greatly prized on account of the delicacy of its flesh. 567.—ROAST STURGEON. (Fn-Esturgeon Roti.) Ingredients.—Veal stuffing, buttered paper, the tail-end of a sturgeon. Mode.—Cleanse the fish, bone and skin it; make a nice veal-stuffing (see Forcemeats), and fill with it the part where the bones came from; roll it in buttered paper, bind it up firmly with tape, like a fillet of veal, and roast in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Serve with good brown gravy, or plain melted butter. Time.—About 1 hour. Average Cost, 6d. to is. per lb. Seasonable from April to September. Note.—Sturgeon may be plain-boiled, and served with Dutch sauce. The fish is very firm, and requires long boiling. Estimate of the Sturgeon by the Ancients.—By the ancients, the flesh of this fish was com- pared to the ambrosia of the immortals. The poet Martial passes a high eulogium upon it, and assigns it a place on the luxurious tables of the Palatine Mount. If we may credit a modern traveller in China, the people of that country generally entirely abstain from it, and the sovereign of the Celestial Empire confines it to his own kitchen, or dispenses it to only a few of bis greatest favourites. 568.—MATELOT OF TENCH. (Fr.—Tanche en Matelote.) Ingredients.—Some tench, 1 pint of stock, No. 273 ; £ pint of port wine 1 dozen small onions, a few mushrooms, a faggot of herbs, 2 blades of mace, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, thyme, 1 shalot, 2 anchovies, flour, 1 dozen oysters, the juice of £ lemon. Mode.—Scale and clean the tench, cut it into pieces, and lay them in a stewpan; add half the stock, wine, onions, mushrooms, herbs and mace, and simmer gently for half an hour. Put into another stewpan all the re- maining ingredients but the oysters and lemon-juice, and boil slowly for 10 minutes, when add the strained liquor from the tench, and keep stirring it