726 General Observations on Vegetables. the cells are burst and broken. They also deteriorate if they are allowed to sprout. Some or all of the starch is changed to dextrine, a gummy substance with a sweetish taste, which no longer assumes a mealy appearance on boiling as does a starchy potato. The waste in boiling is much less if the tubers are boiled in their skins, which are of a cork-like substance impervious to water. There is also considerable waste in peeling potatoes, owing to the fact that the least watery and most albuminous part of the tubers lies immediately under the skin. It is said that one potato in every seven is wasted by the common method of cooking. Potato starch is largely used to adulterate other farinaceous preparations, as it is the cheapest form of starch. It is said to turn watery sooner than other starches if it is allowed to stand after it is cooked. 1519. Vegetables of the Olden Time.— Not potatoes alone, but many other vegetables common now were unknown to our forefathers even a few centuries back, and the fruits were very different to those at present produced in England. The following extract, from Professor Thorold Rogers’ well-known work on the “ History of Prices," serves to show the state of things, and the neces- sary consequence thereof. “ The manor house possessed a garden and orchard. But the former was very deficient in vegetables. The householder of the 13th and 14th centuries grew onions and leeks, mustard, and garden or green peas. He probably also possessed cabbage, though I have never found either seed or plants quoted. Apples, and sometimes pears, are mentioned as part of the orchard produce, but we read of no plums except once of damsons. A regular part of the produce of the orchard was cider, and its low price seems to suggest that it was made in considerable quantities. Sometimes, too, wine was grown in England. Crabs were collected in order to manufacture verjuice—an important item in mediaeval cookery. Bees, though honey was dear and wax very high priced, do not seem to have been commonly kept. “ Scurvy in its most violent forms, and leprosy, modified perhaps by the climate, were common disorders, for as has often been said, the people lived on salt meat half the year, and not only were they without potatoes, but they do not appear to have had other roots now in common use, as carrots and parsnips. Onions and cabbage appear to have been the only esculent vegetables. It will be found that nettles (if we can identify those with urticae) were sold from the garden. Spices, the cheapest of which was pepper, were quite out of their reach. Sugar was a very costly luxury, and our forefathers do not appear, judging from the rarity of the notices, to have been skilful in their management of bees." 1520. Value of Vegetable Food.—If potatoes are watery, most of the roots and tubers we have now to consider are even more so. Out of every hun- dred pounds of potato, seventy-five are water ; out of every hundred pounds of carrot, eighty-nine; of turnips, ninety-two; of the artichoke, eighty; of onion, ninety-one ; of the eight or ten pounds that remain there is sometimes starch, sometimes an analogous substance known as inulin, and there is one to two pounds of albuminoid. In all, too, there is a considerable amount of cellulose and woody fibre, both of which are indigestible by such apparatus as is possessed by man. We must ascribe their chief value to the salts they contain and to the value of variety in food. They also introduce into the system some water, neces- sary for digestion and assimilation. It is much to be regretted that by the manner of cooking vegetables that prevails in this country, a great part of these salts is dissolved in water and thrown away, only the vegetable itself being eaten, or at least—for fashion, as usual, is stmrewhat arbitrary—of most vegetables the safe are thro'wn away; di other's (s'ifch as carrot’s and turnipS*)' the water fs kfe'pt,,