458 Recipes for Cooking Veal. 1014.—VEAL SAUSAGES. (Fr.— Saucisses de Veau.J Ingredients.—Equal quantities of fat bacon and lean veal; to every lb. of meat, allow 1 teaspoonful of minced sage, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Chop the meat and bacon finely, and to every lb. allow the above proportion of very finely-minced sage ; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, mix the whole well together, and make it into flat cakes, and fry a nice brown. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Seasonable from March to October. 1015.—STEWED VEAL, WITH PEAS, YOUNG CARROTS AND NEW POTATOES. (.Fr.—Longe de Veau a la Printanier.) Ingredients.—3 or 4 lbs. of the loin or neck of veal, 15 young carrots, a few green onions, 1 pint of green peas, 12 new potatoes, a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Dredge the meat with flour, and roast or bake it for about three-quarters of an hour: it should acquire a nice brown colour. Put the meat into a stewpan with the carrots, onions, potatoes, herbs, pepper, and salt; pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it, and stew gently for two hours. Take out the meat and herbs, put it in a deep dish, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and flavour it with lemon-juice, tomato sauce, and mushroom ketchup in the above proportion. Have ready a pint of green peas, boiled separately ; put these with the meat, pour over it the gravy, and serve. The dish may be garnished with a few forcemeat balls. The meat, when preferred, may be cut into chops, and floured and fried instead of being roasted ; and any part of veal dressed in this way will be found extremely savoury and good. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable, with peas, from June to August. VEAL ENTREES. 1016.—CALF’S EARS. (Fr.—Oreilles de Veau Farcies.) Ingredients.—2 ears, veal forcemeat No. 629, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 12 mushrooms, yolk of 1 egg, 1 teacupful of cream, 1 pint of slock No. 278, £ pint of milk, 1 lemon. Mode.—Get a couple of ears that have been cut off deeply from the