Respiration. 1603 gifted with the same physical ability for the harassing duties of a molher ; and though Nature, as a general rule, has endowed all female creation with the attributes necessary to that most beautiful, and, at the same time, holiest function—the healthy rearing of their offspring—the cases are sufficiently numerous to establish the exception, where the mother is either physically or socially incapacitated from undertaking these most pleasing duties herself, and where, consequently, she is compelled to trust to adventitious aid for those natural benefits which are at once the mother’s pride and delight to render to her child. 3646. The Lungs.— Respiration.—The first effect of air on the infant is a slight tremor about the lips and angles of the mouth, increasing to twitchings, and finally to a convulsion of the lips and cheeks, the consequence of sudden cold to the nerves of the face. This spasmodic action produces a gasp, causing the air to rush through the mouth and nostrils and enter the windpipe and upper portion of the fiat and contracted lungs, which immediately expand. This is succeeded by a few faint sobs or pants, by which larger volumes of air are drawn into the chest, till, after a few seconds, and when a greater bulk of the lungs has become inflated, the breast bone and ribs rise, the chest expands, and, with a sudden start, the infant gives utterance to a succession of loud, sharp cries, which have the effect of completely filling the lungs with air. At the same instant that the air rushes into the lungs, the valve, or door be- tween the two sides of the heart—and through which the blood had previously passed—is closed, and the blood taking a new course, bounds into the lungs now expanded with air, where it becomes oxygenated and made fit to nourish the dif- ferent organs of the body. What the key is to the mechanical watch, air is to the physical man. Once admit air into the mouth and nostrils, and the lungs expand, the blood rushes to the remotest part of the body ; the mouth secretes saliva, to soften and macerate the food; the liver forms its bile, to separate the nutriment from the digested ailment; the kidneys perform their office; the eye elaborates its tears, to facili- tate motion and impart that glistening to the orb on which depends so much of its beauty ; and a dewy moisture exudes from the skin, protecting the body from the extremes of heat and cold, and sharpening the perception of touch and feel- ing. At the same instant, and in every part, the arteries are everywhere laying down layers of muscle, bones, teeth, and, in fact, like the coral zoophyte, build- ing up a continent of life and matter ; while the veins, equally busy, are carrying away the debris and refuse collected from where the zoophyte arteries are building, —this refuse, in its turn, being conveyed to the liver, there to be converted into bile. All these, and they are but a few of the vital actions constantly taking place, are the instant result of one gasp of life-giving air. No subject can be fraught with greater interest than watching the changes which are wrought upon the living body the moment the external air acts upon it. 3647. The Stomach.—Digestion.— Next to respiration, digestion is the chief function in the economy of life, as, without the nutritive fluids digested from the aliment, there would be nothing to supply the immense and constantly re- curring waste of the system, caused by the activity of the vital processes, espe- cially during infancy and growth. In infancy (the period of which our present subject treats), the series of parts engaged in the process of digestion may be reduced simply to the stomach and liver, or rather its secretion, the bile. The stomach is a thick muscular bag, connected above with the gullet, and, at its lower extremity, with, the commencement of the small intestines. The duty