227 Fish with Cream Sauce, Tenacity of Life In the Eel.—There is no fish so tenacious of life as this. After it is skinned and cut in pieces, the parts will continue to move for a considerable time, and no fish will live so long out of water. The Lamprey (Fr.—Lamproies.) — With the Romans, this fish occupied a respectable rank among the piscine tribes, and in Britain it has at various periods stood high in public favour. It was the cause of the death of Henry I. of England, who ate so much of them, that it brought on an attack of indigestion, which carried him off. It is an in- habitant of the sea, ascending rivers, principally about the end of winter, and, after passing a few months in fresh water, returning again to its oceanic residence. It is most in season in March, April and May, but is, by some, re- garded as an unwholesome food, although looked on by others as a great delicacy. Lampreys are dressed as eels. 470.—FISH WITH CREAM SAUCE. (Fr.—Poisson au Gratin.) Ingredients.—Take 2 lbs. of some kind of white fish, x oz. of flour, 1 teacupful of bread-crumbs, 1 quart of milk, flavouring of nutmeg, 2 onions, x teaspoonful of salt, % teaspoonful of pepper, % lb. of butter. Mode.—Boil the fish until exceedingly well cooked, and set it aside to cool. Put the flour into a stewpan, and add by degrees the milk ; mix it smoothly. Cut fine the onions, grate in a little nutmeg, add a teaspoon- ful of salt, half as much pepper; put this mixture on the fire, and stir it till it becomes rather thick, then add the butter. On the dish in which you serve it, put a layer of the mixture, then fish (picked fine), and so on till your dish is full; over the top a layer of bread-crumbs. Time.—Bake £ hour. Average Cost, without the fish, 9d. Seasonable at any time. 47i._FISH AND OYSTER PIE. Tv-.—(Pate de Poisson aux Huttres.) Ingredients.—Any remains of cold fish, such as cod or haddock; 2 dozen oysters, pepper and salt to taste, bread-crumbs sufficient for the quantity of fish; | teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Mode.—Clear the fish from the bones, and put a layer of it in a pie- dish, which sprinkle with pepper and salt; then a layer of bread-crumbs, oysters, nutmeg and chopped parsley Repeat this till the dish is quite full. You may form a covering either of bread-crumbs, which should be browned, or puff-paste, which should be cut into long strips, and laid in cross-bars over the fish, with a line of paste first laid round the edge. Before putting on the top, pour in some made melted butter, or a little thin white sauce, and the oyster-liquor ; then bake. Time.—If made of cooked fish, £ hour ; if made of fresh fish and puff- paste, i hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable from September to April.