Broiled Pheasant. 683 larger considerably than the bird, and cover it with the liver, &c., and a few truffles; an anchovy and a little fresh butter added to these will do no harm. Put the bread, &c., into the dripping-pan, and when the bird is roasted, place it on the preparation, and surround it with Florida oranges. Do not be uneasy, Savarin adds, about your dinner; for a pheasant served in this way is fit for beings better than men. The pheasant itself is a very good bird ; and, imbibing the dressing and the flavour of the truffle and snipe, it becomes thrice better. 1408. —BROILED PHEASANT. (Fr.—Faisan Grille.) (A Breakfast or Luncheon Dish.) Ingredients.—I pheasant, a little lard, egg and bread-crumbs, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the legs off at the first joint, and the remainder of the bird into neat pieces ; put them into a frying-pan with a little lard, and when browned on both sides, and about half-done, take them out and drain them; brush the pieces over vith egg, and sprinkle with bread- crumbs with which has been mixed a good seasoning of cayenne and salt. Broil them over a moderate fire for about ten minutes, or rather longer, and serve with mushroom-sauce, sauce piquante, or browngravy in which a few game-bones and trimmings have been stewed. Time.—Altogether £ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of October to the beginning of February. The Height of Excellence in a Pheasant.—Things edible have their degrees of excellence under various circumstances; thus, asparagus, capers, peas and partridges are best when young. Perfection in others is only reached when they attain maturity : let us say, for example, melons and nearly all fruits (we must except, perhaps, the medlar), with the majority of those animals whose flesh we eat. But others, again, are not good until decomposition is about to set in ; and here we may mention particularly the snipe and the pheasant. If the latter bird be eaten so soon as three days after it has been killed, it then has no peculiarity of flavour ; a pullet would be more relished, and a quail would surpass it in aroma. Kept, however, a proper lengtlnof time —and this can be ascertained by a slight smell and change of colour—then it becomes a highly- flavoured dish, occupying, so to speak, the middle distance between chickea and venison. It is difficult to define any exact time to “ hang ” a pheasant ; but anyone possessed of the instincts of gastronomical science, can at once detect the right moment when a pheasant should be taken down, in the same way as a good cook knows whether a bird should be removed from the spit, or have a turn or two more. 1409. —TO DRESS PLOVERS. (Fr.—Pluviers Rotis.) Ingredients.—3 plovers, butter, flour, toasted bread. Mode.—Having trussed the birds, put them down to a clear fire, and lay slices of moistened toast in the dripping-pan, to catch the trail. Keep them well basted, dredge them lightly with flour a few minutes before they are done, and let them be nicely frothed. Dish them on the toastst over