40 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. back as necessary, such a table being of advantage when the kitchen is restricted in size. Some strong wooden chairs should be added, and a linen press, for the better preservation of table-cloths and napkins in use throughout the week. The linen press is shown in the annexed illustration, and may be obtained, with every other article of kitchen fur- niture, comprehended under the pe.ieral name of “ turnery,” of Messrs. Adams anl Son, 57, Eaymarket, S.IV. A linen press as shown in the annexed illustration is supplied for 45s.; but a press only, without legs or drawer, may be had fcr 30s. Of course when there is a butler’s pantry, or housemaid’s pantry in the house, the linen press is usually kept there. 69. The Kitchen Clock.—As the obser- vance of time and adherence to punctuality are sc necessary in almost everything that is done in the kitchen, no kitchen can be regarded as being completely furnished without a clock. The best kind of clock is an eight-day dial, which requires winding up only once a-week. A good English eight-day dial may be obtained from Messrs. Benson and Co., Ludgate Hill, London, E.C., measuring twelve inches across the dial, for 35s.; and if furnished with machinery for striking the hours, for 705. American dials in nickel-plated cases can be purchased at lower rates of Messrs. Perry and Co., Limited, Holborn Viaduct, London, E C., an attrac- tive and useful article being obtainable for 18s. 6d. as shown in the accompanying illustration is the most convenient for kitchen use. The best position for the kitchen clock is over the mantelpiece, as in some culinary operations it has to be frequently con- sulted ; and the cook should be able to do this with- out turning away from the fireplace. 70. The Kitchen Overmantel.—If an over- mantel has been introduced into the kitchen, a con- venient and suitable receptable for the clock may be made in its very centre, while around it may be placed shelves and small cupboards, niches and pigeon holes for some of the thousand and one smaller articles that are constantly wanted in the kitchen, and which may be kept in such a structure within sight and therefore within refhembrance, for they are far better bestowed here than in drawers or cupboards. The overmantel, moreover is far neater in appear- ance than a number of nails driven into the wall for the suspension of various pieces of tinware, skewers, measures, &c. It is not possible nor desirable to lay down any distinct form and management for it. The better way is to decide, first of all, what shall be kept therein and then to suit the sizes, &c., of the cup- boards and compartments to the articles which they are destined to hold. 71. The Kitchen Steps.—In most kitchens, and especially in those that are fairly lofty, the upper shelves, &c., of the overmantel and the kitchen dresser may be out of the reach of mistress and maid without standing on a chair. Now as the general height of a chair seat from the ground is seventeen inches, it forms The circular form of dial Circular Dial.