Harvey Sauce. 1037 dry; store it away in clean jars or bottles for use, and the liquor will serve as an excellent sauce for meat or fish. Seasonable.—Make this sauce when tomatoes are in full season, that is, from the beginning of September to the end of October. Pickles.—The ancient Greeks and Romans held their pickles in high estimation They consisted of flowers, herbs, roots, and vegetables, preserved in vinegar, and which; were kept for a long time, in cylindrical vases with wide mouths. Their cooks prepared pickles with the great- est care, and the various ingredients were macerated in oil, brine and vinegar, with which they were often impregnated drop by drop. Meat, also, after having been cut into very small pieces, was treated in the same manner. 2246.-STORE SAUCE OR CHEROKEE. Ingredients.—£ oz. of cayenne pepper, 5 cloves of garlic, 2 table- spoonfuls of soy, x tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.—Boil all the ingredients gently for about half an hour; strain the liquor, and bottle off for use. Time.—£ hour. Seasonable.—This sauce can be made at any time. 2247.-HARVEY SAUCE. Ingredients.—1 dozen of anchovies, 6 dessertspoonfuls of soy, ditto of good walnut pickle No. 2241, 3 heads of garlic, 2 shalots, 1 oz. of cayenne pepper, £ oz. of cochineal, 1 gallon of vinegar. Mode.—Cut the anchovies small but do not remove the bones. Chop the pickles, shalots, and garlic, then put all the ingredients into a deep jar and let it stand 14 days, stirring it well 2 or 3 times every day. Then strain through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, bottle it and tie bladders over the corks. 2248.—SAUCE OF HERBS. (For Bottling.) Ingredients.—1 stick of horseradish, 2 shalots, 1 sprig each of winter savoury, basilicum, marjoram and thyme, a little tarragon, 4 cloves, juice of 1 lemon, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, 1 pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of browning, No. 616. Mode.—Wash and scrape the horseradish, strip the sprigs of their leaves, slice the shalots thinly and put all into a saucepan with the vine- gar, lemon-juice and water. Put in the browning, and as soon as the mixture boils simmer very gently for 15 minutes, then strain, and when quite cold put up in small bottles. This sauce is an excellent addition to gravies or may be used in their stead. Time.—About £ hour. Average Cost, id. for this q> lantity. Seasonable at any time.