Recipes for Cooking Fish. 220 Sufficient for 4 persons. 452.—COD’S ROE FRIED. Ingredients.—I lb. of cod’s roe, I egg, bread crumbs, and fat for frying. Mode.—Boil the roe for 15 minutes, then slice it. When cold, dry it, dip it in beaten eggj then in crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Sounds in Codfish. (Fr.—Nau de Morue.)—These are the air or swimming bladders, by means of which the fishes are enabled to ascend or descend in the water. In the Newfoundland fishery they are taken out previous to incipient putrefaction, washed from their slime, and salted for exportation. The tongues are also cured and packed up in barrels ; whilst, trom the livers, considerable quantities of oil are extracted, this oil having been found possessed of the most nourishing properties, and particularly beneficial in cases of pulmonary affections. 453.—TO DRESS CRAB. (Fr.—Crabe; Ecr6visse de Mer.) Ingredients.— I crab, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 ditto of oil; salt, white pepper and cayenne, to taste. Mode.—Empty the shells, and thoroughly mix the meat with the above ingredients, and put it in the large shell. Garnish with slices of cut lemon and parsley. The quantity of oil may be increased when it is much liked. Average Cost, from 10d. to 2s. Seasonable all the year; but not so good in May, June and July. Sufficient for 3 persons. To Choose Crab.—The middle-sized crab is the best; and the crab, like the lobster, should be judged by its weight : for if light, it is watery. 454— CRAB DRESSED. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—I large crab, 3 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, bread crumbs, pepper and salt. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell and flake it into small shreds, and add to it the same proportion of finely-grated bread-crumbs; season to taste with pepper and salt, then mix well with the oil, and lastly the vinegar. Carefully wash and dry the shell and put in the mixture, gar- nishing with lobster coral or butter. Average Cost, 2s. Seasonable all the year.