1023 Pickled Cabbage. the outside skin, or they would lose their beautiful colour. Put themmt boiling water, let them simmer gently, and when about three’ff ’ which will be in 1* hour, take them out and let them cool. Boil the vineg with pepper and allspice, in the above proportions, lor ™ n when cold, pour it on the beets, which must be peeled and cut into si ices about half an inch thick. Cover with bladder to exclude the air, and in a week they will be fit for use. Average Cost, is. per dozen. 2218.—PICKLED RED CABBAGE. (Fr — Choux Marines.) Ingredients.—Red cabbages, salt and water; to each quart of vinegar, i oz of ginger well bruised, 1 oz. of whole black pepper, and, when liked, a little cayenne. „ . , ,, jyjode.—Take c ff the outside decayed leaves of a nice red cabbage, cut it into quarters, remove the stalks, and cut it across in very t in slices. Lay these on a dish, and strew them plentifully with salt, covering them with another dish. Let them remain for 24 hours, turn into a colander to drain, and, if necessary, wipe lightly with a clean soft cloth. Put them in a jar; boil up the vinegar with spices in the above proper- tion, and, when cold, pour it over the cabbage. It will be fit for use in a week or two, and if kept for a very long time, the cabbage is liable to get soft and to discolour. To be really nice and crisp, and of a good red colour, it should be eaten almost immediately after it is made. A little bruised cochineal boiled with the vinegar adds much to the appearance of this pickle. Tie down with bladder, and keep m a dry place. Seasonable in July and August, but the pickle will be much more crisp if the frost has just touched the leaves. hrtut-a dish held in such h.gh sufficiently impressed numerousWmerlts?ngThe largl red Dutch is the kind generally recommended for pickling. 2219.-PICKLED CAPSICUMS. Ingredients.—Vinegar, \ oz. of pounded mace and \ oz. of grated nutmeg to each quart, brine. , , Mode—Gather the pod-, with the stalks on, before they turn red, slit them down the side with a small pointed knife, and remove the seeds only; put them in a strong brine for 3 days, changing it every morning; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, with another one over them, until they are perfectly free from moisture. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with mace and nutmeg in the above proportions; put the