496 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. Mode.—Cut the meat in nice even slices from the bones, trimming off all superfluous fat and gristle; chop the bones and fragments of the joint, put them into the stewpan with the pepper, spice, herbs and celery ; cover with water, and simmer for 1 hour. Slice and fry the onion of a nice pale-brown colour, dredge in a little flour to make it thick, and add this to the bones, &c. Stew for a quarter of an hour, strain the gravy, and let it cool ; then skim off every particle of fat, and put it, with the meat, into a stewpan. Flavour with ketchup, Harvey’s sauce, tomato sauce, or any flavouring that may be preferred, and let the meat gradually warm through, but not boil, or it will harden. To hash meat properly, it should be laid in cold gravy, and only left on the fire just long enough to warm through. Time.—1^- hour to simmer the gravy. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 4d. Seasonable at any time. 1089. —SHEEP’S HEARTS ROASTED. (Fr.—Coeurs de Mouton Rotis.) Ingredients.—4 sheep’s hearts, 4 onions, 8 tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls of dried sage, salt, black pepper. Mode.—Wash the hearts well, parboil the onions, then mince finely, and mix with the sage, bread-crumbs, salt and pepper. Press the stuffing well into the hearts, and sew them with needle and cotton, or tie a little muslin over the tops to keep the stuffing in. Roast before a good fire from half an hour to 40 minutes, basting frequently ; or bake for the same time in a good oven, but take care they do not get too dry. The onions may be omitted. Time.—30 to 40 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Hashed. Mutton.—Many persons express a decided aversion to hashed mutton ; and, doubt- less, this dislike has arisen from the fact that they have unfortunately never been properly served with this dish. If properly done, however, the meat tender (it ought to be as tender as when first roasted), the gravy abundant and well flavoured, and the sippets nicely toasted, and the whole served neatly—then hashed mutton is by no means to be despised, and is infinitely more wholesome and appetising than the cold leg or shoulder, of which fathers and husbands, and their bachelor friends, stand in such natural awe. 1090. —HODGE-PODGE. (Fr.—Hochepot.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—About I lb. of underdone cold mutton, 2 lettuces, 1 pint of green peas, 5 or 6 green onions, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, $ teacupful of water. Mode.—Mince the mutton, and cut up the lettuces and onions in