636 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. Time.—5 minutes to prepare, 7 minutes to grill. Average Cost, ex. elusive of the 2 legs, 2d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable all the winter. 1331.—DEVILLED TURKEY (Wet). (.Fr.—Dinde a la Diable.) Ingredients.—2 turkey-legs, I pint of good stock, No. 272, 1 table- spoonful of made mustard, 1 tablespoonful of sauce piquante, No. 770. Mode.—Score and gash the two legs as in recipe No. 1330, rub the made mustard well into the cuts, and drop the sauce piquante gradually over them ; stew gently in the stock, and serve very hot; garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut in half, and arranged alternately with sippets round the dish. Time.—25 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold turkey, 4d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable all the winter. 1332-—HASHED TURKEY. (Fr.—Ragout de Dinde.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast turkey, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than 1 pint of water, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Cut the turkey into neat joints ; the best pieces reserve for the hash, the inferior joints and trimmings put into a stewpan, with an onion cut in slices, pepper and salt, a carrot, turnip, mace, herbs and water in the above proportion ; simmer these for an hour, then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, flavour with ketchup and port, and lay in the pieces of turkey to warm through; if there is any stuffing left, put that in also, as it so much improves the flavour of the gravy. When it boils, serve and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—1 hour to make the gravy. Seasonable from December to February. Hunting-Turkeys.—Formerly, in Canada, hunting turkeys was one of the principal diversions of the natives of that country. When they discovered the retreat of the birds, which was generally near a field of nettles., or where grain of any kind was plentiful, they would send a well- trained dog into the midst of the flock. The turkeys no sooner perceived their enemy than they would run off at full speed, and with such swiftness that they would leave the dog far behind. He, however, would follow in their wake, and as they could not, for a great length of time, continue at their speed, they were at last forced to seek shelter in the trees. There they would sit, spent with fatigue till the hunters would approach, and. with long poles, knock them down one after the other.