1146 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. 2546.—THANKSGIVING CAKE. Ingredients.—Take 1 lb. of butter, 9 eggs, i lb. of sifted loaf sugar, 1 lb. of flour, ^ a nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of mixed cinnamon and mace, ground, 2 oz. of candied lemon peel, 2 oz. of blanched and chopped almonds, £ lb. of dried currants. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs well beaten, mix in the flour, and add the other ingredients. Beat all thoroughly together, and bake 2 hours in a moderate oven. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 3s. Seasonable at any time. 2547. —TIP-TOP CAKE. Ingredients.—Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 6 eggs, 2 teacupfuls of raisins chopped, or currants, 2 wineglasses of sherry, clove, cinnamon, nutmeg. Mode.—Beat to a cream the butter and sugar; add the eggs beaten to a froth, then flour, fruit, and spice, lastly the wine. Bake on tin sheets and drop from a tablespoon. This recipe makes a large quantity, and they keep fresh a long time. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 3s. Seasonable at any time. 2548. —VANILLA CAKE. Ingredients.—4 lb. of butter, I lb. of pounded sugar, 3 eggs, | tea- cupful of new milk, £ lb. of dry flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, essence of vanilla. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and beaten egg yolks, beat some minutes, then add the whites. Put the baking-powder in the milk, add it to the above, then sift in the flour, and beat well, adding a few drops of essence of vanilla. Finely-cut candied peel may be added, or substituted for the vanilla, if liked. Put into a buttered tin and bake 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, grf. Seasonable at any time. 2549.—WAFFLES. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, 6 eggs, J lb. of butter, 1 large gill of yeast, salt, flour. Mode.—Beat the eggs and melt the butter, then mix all, adding flour sufficient to make them as thick as griddle-cakes. Set them to rise, and bake in waffle-irons obtainable at the ironmonger’s. Time.—10 to 15 mnutes. Average Cost, is. 3d. Seasonable at any time.