5o5 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. 2 bay-leaves, a sprigs of thyme, 1 oz, of salt, \ oz. of pepper, 2 tabic- Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Cost, 8id. per lb. Seasonable at any time. pan ; pour it over the meat, which send to table with a tureen of made gravy and red-currant jelly. Time.—A saddle of mutton weighing io lbs., hours; 14 lbs, 3J hours. When liked underdone, allow rather less time. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient.—A moderate-sized saddle of 10 lbs., for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year ; not so good when lamb is in full season. 1108.-ROAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON. (Fr.—Epaule de Mouton.) Ingredients.—Shoulder of mutton; a little salt. Mode.—Put the joint down to a bright, clear fire; flour it well and keep continually basting. About a quarter of an hour before serving, draw it near the fire( that the outside may acquire a nice brown colour, but not sufficiently near to blacken the fat. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, empty the dripping pan of its contents, pour in a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions, are usually sent to table with this dish, and sometimes baked potatoes. Time.—A shoulder of mutton weighing 6 or 7 pounds, 1 £ hour. Average Note.—Shoulder of mutton may be dressed in a variety of ways ; boiled, and served with onion sauce ; boned, and stuffed with good veal forcemeat; or baked, with sliced potatoes in the dripping-pan. The Ettrick Shepherd.—James Hogg was perhaps the most remarkable man that ever Wore the maud of a shepherd. Under the garb, aspect and bearing of a rude peasant (and rude enough he was in most of these things, even after no inconsiderable experience of society), the world soon discovered a true poet. He taught himself to write by copying the letters of a printed book as he lay watching his flock on the hill-side, and believed that he had reached the utmost pitch of his ambition when he found that his artless rhymes could touch the heart of the ewe-milker who partook the shelter of his mantle during the passing storm. If “ the shepherd” of Professor Wilson’s “Nodes Ambrosianae’’ may be taken as a true portrait of James Hbgg, we must admit that, for quaintness of humour, the poet of Ettrick Forest had few rivals. Sir Walter Scott said that Hogg’s thousand little touches of absurdity afforded him more entertainment than the best comedy that ever set the pit in a roar. Among the written productions of the shepherd-poet is an account of his own experiences in sheep- tending, called “The Shepherd’s Calendar.” This work Contains a vast amount of useful information upon sheep, their diseases, habits and management. The Ettrick Shepherd died in 1835. 1109.—SHEEP’S FEET OR TROTTERS. (Fr.—Pieds de Mouton.) {S oyer's Recipe.) Ingred.ients.-~12 feet, \ lb. of beef or mutton suet, 2 onions, 1 carrot, SHOULDER OF MUTTON.