Scotch Woodcock. 1171 2609.—WELSH RARE-BIT. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—i lb. of cheese (a good America.’-’ one does very well for this dish), 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoon- fuls of either milk or ale, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little salt. Mode.—Oil the butter in the saucepan, then add the cheese, cut in thin slices, and stir till melted ; put in the ale or milk a little at a time, then the mustard, and a very little salt. Should the fire be fierce, and the mixture bubble without the slices of cheese melting, lift the saucepan a little off the fire and stir till it is smooth, when it should be poured over slices of hot buttered toast. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2610.— SCOTCH WOODCOCK. Ingredients.—A few slices of hot buttered toast; allow 1 anchovy to each slice. For the sauce : £ pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; beat the former, stir to them the cream, and bring the sauce to the boiling-point, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Have ready some hot buttered toast, spread with anchovies pounded to a paste; pour a little of the hot sauce on the top, and serve very hot and very quickly. Time.—5 minutes to make the sauce hot. Sufficient.—Allow £ slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. 2611.—TO CHOOSE EGGS. In choosing eggs, apply the tongue to the large end of the egg, and if it feels warm, it is new, and may be relied on as a fresh egg. Another mode of ascertaining their freshness is to hold them before a lighted candle or to the light, and if the egg looks clear, it will be tolerably good ; if thick, it is stale ; and if there is a black spot attached to the shell, it is worthless. No egg should be used for culinary purposes with the slightest taint in it, as it will render perfectly useless those with which it has been mixed. Eggs that are purchased, and that cannot be relied on, should always be broken in a cup, and then put into a basin ; bv this means stale or bad eggs may be easily rejected, without wasting