Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 296 631—FRENCH FORCEMEAT. (FV.-Quenelles.) It will be well to state, in the beginning of this recipe, that French forcemeat, or quenelles, consists of the blending of three separate pro- cesses ; namely, panada, udder, and whatever meat you intend using. 632.—PANADA. Ingredients.—The crumb of 2 penny rolls, 1 pint of white stock, No. 278; 1 oz. of butter, 1 slice of ham, 1 bay leaf, a little minced parsley, 2 shalots, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, a few mushrooms (when obtainable); butter, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Soak the crumb of the rolls in milk for about half an hour, then take it out, and squeeze so as to press the milk from it; put the soaked bread into a stewpan with one third of the stock, and set it on one side; then put into a separate stewpan 1 oz. of butter, a slice of lean ham cut small, with a bay-leaf, herbs, mushrooms, spices, &c., in the above proportions, and fry them gently over a slow fire. When done, moisten with the remainder of the stock, boil for 20 minutes, and strain the whole through a sieve over the panada in the other stewpan. Place it over the fire, keep constantly stirring, to prevent its burning, and when quite dry, put in a small piece of butter. Let this again dry up by stirring over the fire; then add the yolks of 2 eggs, mix well, put the panada to cool o-n a clean plate, and use it when required. Panada should always be well flavoured, as the forcemeat re- ceives no taste from any of the other ingredients used in its preparation. 633.—BOILED CALF’S UDDER FOR FRENCH FORCEMEATS. Put the udder into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it; let it stew gently till quite done, when take it out to cool. Trim all the upper parts, cut it into small pieces, and pound well in a mortar, till it can be rubbed through a sieve. That portion which passes through the strainer is one of the three ingredients of which French forcemeats are generally composed ; but many cooks substitute butter for this, being a less troublesome and more expedi- tious mode of preparation. Pestle and Mortar.—No cookery can be perfectly performed without the aid of the useful instruments shown in the engraving. For pounding things suffici- ently fine, they are invaluable, and the use of them will save a good deal of time, besides increasing the excel- lence of the preparations. They are made of iron, and in that material can be bought cheap; but as these are not available for all purposes, we should recommend, as more economical in the end, those made of Wedgwood, although these are oonsiderably more expensive than the former. PESTLE AND MORTAR.