j626 Legal Memoranda. 3704. Covenants in Leases continue to be frequent, and generally have the effect of restricting the use of the property, either against the carrying on of any business whatever, or of excluding any business or trade specified. There may also be covenants to any effect, and the most usual one gives the lessor power of re-entry for non-payment of rent beyond a stated number of days after it becomes due. 3705. Forfeiture of Leases,—Right of re-entry and consequent liability to forfeiture for breach of covenant or condition cannot be legally enforced, by action or otherwise, unless the lessor serves on the lessee a notice specifying the breach, demanding that it be remedied (if practicable), and that money compen- sation be paid. Not until the lessee has, within reasonable time, failed to effect the remedy and to pay the compensation, can the lessor legally proceed to enforce forfeiture. In the event of proceedings, the lessee is entitled to appeal to a law court, and the court has power either to enforce the re-entry or to make any other order concerning it, for the relief of the tenant or otherwise. Notwithstanding, right of re-entry invariably accrues if, contrary to covenant, the lessee under-lets or assigns, and, as a general rule, when the re-entry is on account of non-payment of rent within the time specified. But, when re-entry and consequent forfeiture is claimed for non-payment of rent, a judge, on applica- tion by the lessee, has power to make a summary order restoring the lessee to full possession, and to endorse the lease to that effect, on payment of the rent due and costs; or the judge may confirm the forfeiture. In either case, either the lessor or lessee has the right of appealing to the court, which has power to con- firm or reverse the decision of the judge. 3706. Agreements for Leases.—It is a common custom in some circles for the expense of a deed to be avoided by the execution of an agreement for a lease, which, on the face of it, binds each party, on the demand of the other, to execute such lease in the terms set forth in such agreement. If, before rent has passed, either of the parties demands the execution of the lease, the other party is legally bound to execute it accordingly, but if the tenant pays one instalment (say a quarter) of rent, and such rent is accepted without remark, the agreement instantly becomes void, and the tenancy becomes an annual one, as though there had been no writing. This rarely becomes of practical importance, because it is generally to the satisfaction and interest of both parties to carry out the conditions of the supposed lease. 3707. Tenancies under Agreements.—A tenancy at will is where the tenant is at liberty to go or liable to be turned out without notice. It differs only from a tenancy on sufferance so far that the landlord has assented in some way to the tenant being there. Payment of rent does not alter the character of a tenancy at will if there is a proved agreement that such is the nature of t'.e tenancy. In practice, tenancy at will only occurs where a tenant holds over after the expiration of a notice to quit, or where premises are already acquired for any kind of public work, pending demolition. A tenancy at will mav lapse into an annual tenancy by continued acquiescence and successive payments of rent without remonstrance or remark. An agreement for a tenancy may be implied without any writing, by the mere giving of and taking possession, which is implied by the delivery and acceptance of the key. In that case, the nature, obligations and rights of the tenancy are implied from the surrounding circumstances affecting the property. But such tenancies are getting more and more rare, being nearly always evidenced by writing. A tenancy which is not the subject of a deed cannot extend to more than three