Boiled Cauliflowers. 745 I559--BOILED CAULIFLOWERS. (Fr.—Choufleurs a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—To each | gallon of water allow i heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Choose cauliflowers that are close and white; trim off the decayed outside leaves, and cut the stalk off flat at the bottom. Open the flower a little in places to remove the insects, which generally are found about the stalk, and let the cauli- flowers lie in salt and water for an hour previous to dressing them, with their heads downwards: this will effectually draw out all the vermin. , ,, . , r . , ... , BOILED CAULIFLOWER. Then put them into fast-boiling water, with the addition of salt in the above proportion, and let them boil briskly over a good fire, keeping the saucepan uncovered. The water should be well skimmed; and, when the cauliflowers are tender, take them up with a slice; let them drain, and lay them carefully in the dish. Serve with plain melted butter, a little of which may be poured over the flower. Time.—Small cauliflower, 12 to 15 minutes, large one, 20 to 25 minutes, after the water boils. Average Cost, for large cauliflowers, 6d. each. Sufficient.—Allow I large cauliflower for 3 persons. Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of September. 1560.—CAULIFLOWERS A LA SAUCE BLANCHE. (Fr.—Choufleurs a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—3 cauliflowers, £ pint of sauce blanche, or French melted butter; No. 678; 3 oz. of butter; salt and water. Mode.—Cleanse the cauliflowers as in the preceding recipe, and cut the stalks off flat at the bottom ; boil them until tender in salt and water, to which the above proportion of butter has been added, and be careful to take them up the moment they are done, or they will break, and the appearance of the dish will be spoiled. Drain them well, and dish them in the shape of a large cauliflower. Have ready half a pint of sauce, made by recipe No. 678, pour it over the flowers, and serve hot and quickly. • Time.—Small cauliflowers, 12 to 15 minutes, large ones, 20 to 25 minutes, after the water boils. Average Cost.—Large cauliflowers, in full season, 6d. each. Sufficient.—1 large cauliflower for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of September. CAULIFLOWER.