Soles with Mushrooms. 263 butter; make this into small balls and fry them. Thicken the gravy with a dessertspoonful of flour, add the wine, cayenne and lemon-juice; lay in the 2 soles and balls; let them simmer gently for 5 minutes; serve hot, and garnish with cut lemon. When soles are dear a small plaice will do very well for making the forcemeat balls, or the remains of cold fish can be used for this purpose. A little anchovy sauce is considered by some an improvement. Time.—10 minutes to fry the soles. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3$. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 persons. How Soles are Caught.—The instrument usually employed is a trawl-net, which is shaped like a pocket, of from sixty to eighty feet long, and open at the mouth from thirty-two to forty feet, and three deep. This is dragged along the ground by the vessel; and on the art of the fisherman in its employment in a great measure depends the quality of the fish he catches. If, for example, he drags the net too quickly, all that are caught are swept rapidly to the end of the net, where they are smothered, and sometimes destroyed. A medium has to be observed, in order that as few as possible escape being caught in the net, and as many as possible preserved alive in it. 562.—SOLES WITH MUSHROOMS. (Fr.-Soles aux Champignons.) Ingredients.—£ a pint of milk, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. salt, a little lemon juice, 2 middling-sized soles. Mode.—Cleanse the soles, but do not skin them, and lay them in a buttered dish with the milk, salt and lemon-juice. Cover with buttered paper and put in a slack oven till done, which will be in about 10 minutes. Take them up, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them a good mush- room sauce (see Sauces), to which the liquor from the soles may be added. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 persons. 563.—SPRATS. (Fr.—Harenguets.) Sprats should be cooked very fresh, which can be ascertained by their bright and sparkling eyes. Wipe them dry; fasten them in rows by a skewer run through the eyes; dredge with flour, and broil them on a gridiron over a nice clear fire. The gridiron should be rubbed with suet. Serve very hot, with cut lemons and brown bread and butter. Time.— 3 or 4 minutes. Average Cost, id. to 3d. per lb. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient 1 lb. for 3 persons. To Choose Sprats.—Choose these from their silvery appearance, as the brighter they are, so are they the fresher.