1473 Duties of the Lady's-maid. all slops, emptied the water-jugs and filled them with fresh water, and arranged the rooms, the dressing-room is ready for the mistress when she thinks proper to appear. The dressing-room thoroughly in order, the same thing is to be done in the bedroom, in which she will probably be assisted by the housemaid to make the bed and empty the slops. In making the bed, she will study her lady 1 wishes, whether it is to be hard or soft, sloping or straight, and see that it is done accordingly. Having swept the bedroom with equal care, dusted the tables and chairs, chimney-ornaments, and put away all articles of dress left from yesterday, and cleaned and put away any articles of jewellery, her next care is to prepare and put out in readiness all the garments her mistress may require in walking, riding, or driving during the day; next to see, before her mistress goes out, what requires replacing in her department, and furnish her with a list of them, that she may use her discretion about ordering them. All this done, she may settle herself down to any work on which she is engaged. This will consist chiefly in mending, which is first to be seen to ^everything, except stockings, being mended before washing. Plain work will probably be one of the lady’s-maid’s chief employments. She assists her mistress to dress during the day, puts away her walking and riding costumes, and lays out her evening dress with its accompaniments some time before dinner. She is in attendance at night when her mistress retires, and having assisted her to un- dress, removes all slops and attends to the fire before leaving the room. These are the usual duties of a lady’s-maid, but in every household they vary. In some she may have to give some slight attendance upon lady guests, occasionally to answer the door if there be only one man-servant, or to dust the ornaments and small things in her lady's boudoir or drawing-room. A waiting-maid who wishes to make herself useful will study the fashion-books with attention, so as to be able to aid her mistress's judgment in dressing, according to the prevailing fashion, with such modifica- tions as her style and figure require. She will also, if she has her mistress s interests at heart, employ her spare time in repairing and making up dresses which have served one purpose, to serve another also ; or turning many things, unfitted for her mistress, to use for the younger branches of the family. The lady’s-maid may thus render herself invaluable to her mistress, and increase her own happiness in so doing. The exigencies of fashion and luxury are such, that all ladies, except those of the very highest rank, will consider themselves fortunate in having about them a thoughtful person, capable of diverting their finery to a useful purpose. 3263. Care of Linen.—Before sending linen to wash, the lady’s-maid should see that everything under her charge is properly mended ; for her own sake she should take care that it is sent out in an orderly manner, each class ot garments by themselves, with a proper list, of which she retains a copy. On its return, it is still more necessary to examine every piece separately, so that all missing buttons be supplied, and only the articles properly washed and in perfect repair passed into the wardrobe. 3264. Visiting.—Ladies who keep a waiting-maid for their own persons are in the habit of paying visits to their friends, in which it is not unusual for the maid to accompany them ; at all events, it is her duty to pack the trunks , and this requires not only knowledge but some practice, although the improved trunks and portmanteaux now made, in which there is a place for nearly everything, render this more simple than formerly. Before packing, let the trunks be thoroughly well cleaned, and, if necessary, lined with paper, and everything CURLING IRONS.