8i8 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. it smooth ; then add the butter, beat this well in until thoroughly mixed, and sweeten with moist sugar. Put the mixture into a pie-dish, round which has been placed a border of paste, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake the pudding from i to hour,in a moderate oven, or boil it the same length of time in a well-buttered basin. To enrich this pudding, stir to the other ingredients, just before it is put in the oven, 3 well- whisked eggs and add a tablespoonful of brandy. For a nursery pudding the addition of the latter ingredients will be found quite superfluous, as also the paste round the edge of the dish. Time.—1 to i£ hour, baked or boiled. Average Cost, 7<1, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Arrowroot.—In India, and in the colonies, by the process of rasping, they extract from a vegetable (Maranta arundinacea) a sediment nearly resembling Tapioca. The grated pulp is sifted into a quantity of water, from which it is afterwards strained and dried, and the sediment thus produced is called Arrowroot. Its qualities closely resemble those of Tapioca. 1717.—APRICOT SOUFFLE. (Fr.—Souffle aux Abricots.) Ingredients.—5 or 6 eggs, 2 oz. of cornflour, £ pint of milk, sugar to taste, a tin of apricots. Mode.—Rub the apricots through a fine sieve, first boiling them if necessary till they are soft. Put the milk on the fire and mix the cornflour with it, stirring till it thickens. Add the fruit and sugar to taste, then the yolks of the eggs, and beat them well. Last of all add the whites, whipped to a froth, and bake or steam the souffle at once for 20 or 30 minutes. If baked, the oven must be hot; if steamed, the water must not bubble after the souffle is set in it. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.— Any other fruit may be used, but it must not be very juicy. It should be a thick puree when rubbed through the sieve. Any superfluous juice or syrup can be added to the sauce of a steamed pudding; a baked one is usually served dry. 1718.—A BACHELOR’S PUDDING. Ingredients,—4 oz. of grated bread, 4 oz. of currants, 4 oz. of apples, 2 oz. of sugar, 3 eggs, a few drops of essence of lemon, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Pare, core and mince the apples very finely, sufficient, when minced, to make 4 oz.; add to these the currants, which should be well washed, the grated bread and sugar; whisk the eggs, beat these up with the remaining ingredients, and. when all is thoroughly mixed, put the