925 Coffee Cream. minutes. Then well whisk the whites of the eggs in the other basin, until they are stiff, and, when firm, mix lightly with the yolks, till the whole forms a smooth and light substance ; butter a souffle-tin, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Pin a white napkin round the tin, strew sifted sugar over the top of the souffle, and send it immediately to table. The proper appearance of this dish depends entirely on the expedition with which it is served, and some cooks, to preserve its lightness, hold a salamander over the souffle until it is placed on the table. If allowed to stand after it comes from the oven, it will be entirely spoiled, as it falls almost immediately. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, 8^ Sufficient for a moderate-sized souffle. Seasonable at any time. 1976.—vDARIOLES A LA VAN1LLE. {Sweet Entremets.) Ingredients.—I pint of milk, £ pint of cream, 2 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, puff-paste, flavouring of essence of vanilla. Mode.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter with the milk ; stir in the cream, sugar, the eggs, which should be well whisked, and the butter, which should be beaten to a cream. Put in some essence of vanilla, drop by drop, until the mixture is well flavoured ; line some dariole-moulds with puff-paste, three parts fill them with the batter, and bake in a good oven from 25 to 35 minutes. Turn them out of the moulds on a dish, without breaking them ; strew over sifted sugar, and serve. The flavour- ing of the darioles may be varied by substituting lemon, cinnamon, or almonds, for the vanilla. Time.—25 to 35 minutes. Average Cost, is. 8d. Sufficient to fill 6 or 7 dariole-moulds. Seasonable at any time. I977-~COFFEE CREAM. (Fv.—Creme au Cafe.) Ingredients.—1 breakfastcupful of strong coffee, \ pint of cream, yolks of 6 and whites of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of suit. Mode.—Make the coffee very strong and clear and pour the boiling cream to it; add the sugar, and, when cool, the salt and the well-whisked yolks and whites of eggs. Stir the mixture over the fire till It thickens then serve with sifted sugar on the top of each glass. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, is. 3^, Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time.