15 ib Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. scented with a drop or two of any essential oil, viz., lavender, lemon, or attar of roses; but the simple ingredients are quite sweet enough, and certainly best without any addition. 3379.—MILK OF ROSES. (An invaluable Wash for Sunburns, Freckles, &c.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of blanched almonds, 12 oz. of rosewater, 2 drachms of white Windsor soap, 2 drachms of white wax, 2 drachms of oil of almonds, 3 oz. of rectified spirits, 1 drachm of oil of bergamot, 15 drops of oil of lavender, 8 drops of attar of roses. Mode.—Beat the almond to a fine paste in a mortar, then add the rose-water gradually, so as to make an emulsion. Have ready the soap, white wax and oil, reduced to a liquid in a covered jar near the fire. Work the mixture gradually into the mortar with the emulsion ; strain the whole through a fine muslin and add the essential oils, which should pre- viously have been dropped into the spirit. A cheaper preparation of milk of roses may be made by using 1 oz. of blanched almonds, 5 oz. of rose-water, 1 oz. of spirits of wine, ^ drachm of Venetian soap, 2 drops of attar of roses, beating the almond in a mortar to a paste, then the soap in the same way, and mixing them, adding the rose-water and spirit; after which the mixture should be strained, and the scent added. 3380.-ATTAR OF ROSES. The delicious perfume known by this name is a volatile oil, of soft con- sistency, nearly colourless, and which is for use dissolved in alcohol. The best quality is prepared at Ghazipoor, in Hindoostan. It is apt to be adulterated with sandal wood and other oils. In the spring of the year, the country about Ghazipoor is a vast garden of roses, and presents a most beautiful appearance. The flowers are gathered and steeped in stone jars filled with water. These are set out in the open air over-night, and early in the morning the essential oil is skimmed off. This is the attar, and the water is sold for “rose-water.” Two hundred thousand well-grown roses are required to produce half an ounce of the attar; and this quantity, when manufactured, sells, if genuine, for about £12 at the English warehouses. It is very difficult, however, to obtain the genuine article, as even the original manufacturers adulterate it. Mode.—Fill a large earthen jar, or other vessel, with the leaves of rose-flowers picked over and freed from all dust and dirt. Pour upon them as much pure spring water .as will cover them, and from sunrise to sunset, for six or seven days in sucession, set the vessel where it will