Lambs. 483 •(6 and 8.) Shoulder.—Often sold divided, for roasting. It is preferred by many persons to the leg, but is not so economical and is fatter. (7.) Breast.—Often sold at a cheap rate for stew- ing or boiling. Too fat for many persons, but often economical. Besides these joints, the following parts of the sheep are sold for food. (9.) Head. — Sometimes sold with the pluck, but more often alone. Can be boiled, made into most excellent broth—Scotch people generally use it for this—or braised, and is usually an economical dish, bnt its price very greatly varies, and it is not often seen in the better quarters of the town. (10.) Heart.—Sometimes sold separately and some- times with the rest of the “pluck,” consisting of liver, light and heart. Sheep's liver can be fried or made into soup. The heart is best roasted. The whole of the pluck is frequently eaten. In Scotland it is made into " haggis.” Probably the cheapest form of butcher’s meat. (11.) Kidneys.—Broiled or stewed. A very common breakfast dish. The kidney is often sold with the loin. (12.) Feet, or "trotters,” as they are generally called in London, where they are bought in the markets at four a penny, and after being cleaned and boiled are retailed at a halfpenny and a penny each. Seldom eaten in the south of England except by the poor. (13.) Mutton suet is better than beef for frying, be- cause it is less likely to burn, but it is not so good for puddings. LAMBS. 1064. The Lambing Season in this Country usually commences in March, under the artificial system so much pursued now to please the appetite of luxury, but lambs can be procured at all seasons. When, however, the sheep lambs in mid-winter, or the inclemency of the weather would endanger the lives of mother and young, if exposed to its influence, it is customary to rear the lambs within-doors, and under the shelter of stables or barns, where, foddered on soft hay, and partly fed on cow’s milk, the little creatures thrive rapidly : to such it is customary to give the name of House Lamb, to distinguish it from that reared in the open air, or grass-fed. The ewe goes five months with her young, about 152 days, or close on 22 weeks. The weaning season commences, on poor lands, about the end of the third month, but on rich pasture not till the close of the fourth— sometimes longer. From the large proportion of moisture or fluids contained in the tissues of all young animals, the flesh of lamb and veal is much more prone, in close, damp weather, to become tainted and spoilt than the flesh of the more mature, drier and closer-textured beef and mutton. Among epicures, the most delicious sorts of lamb are those of the South-Down breed, known by their black feet; and of these, those which have been exclusively suckled on the milk of the parent ewe are considered the finest. Next to these in estimation are those fed SIDE OF MUTTON, SHOWING THE SEVERAL JOINTS. 1, Leg ; 2, Loin ; 3, Shoulder ; 4 and 5, Neck ; 6, Breast.