1104 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. on with a spoon, or flat, wide wooden paper-knife. Smooth, and let it set gradually. Average Cost, is. per lb. 2434—TO ICE A WEDDING-CAKE. (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.—Whites of 3 eggs, £ lb. of icing sugar, lemon or vanilla flavouring. Mode.—Grind and sift the sugar, and add it to the well-beaten whites of eggs and the flavouring. Beat till it is firm and stiff, then proceed as in preceding recipe. Average Cost, is. 6d. per lb. 2435 —TO ICE A CAKE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of icing sugar, whites of 2 eggs, orange-flower- water. Mode.—Beat these ingredients as in preceding recipe, and while the cake is still warm, pour and smooth the icing evenly over it; ornament with fruit, and bake in a moderate oven to harden, but not to colour. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. 2436.-SUGAR ICING FOR CAKES. Ingredients.—To every lb. of loaf sugar allow the whites of 4 eggs, I oz. of fine starch. Mode.— Beat the eggs to a strong froth, and gradually sift in the sugar, which should be reduced to the finest possible powder, and gradually add the starch, also finely powdered. Beat the mixture well until the sugar is smooth ; then with a spoon or broad knife lay the icing equally over the cakes. These should then be placed in a very cool oven, and the icing allowed to dry and harden, but not to colour. The icing may be coloured with strawberry or currant-juice, or with prepared cochineal. If it be put on the cakes as soon as they are withdrawn from the oven, it will become firm and hard by the time the cakes are cold. On very rich cakes, such as wedding, christening cakes, &c., a layer of almond icing, No. 2432, is usually spread over the top, and over that the- white icing as described. All iced cakes should be kept in a very dry place. Average Cost, iod. per lb. 2437.-BISCUIT POWDER. ('Generally used for Infants’ Food.) This powder may be purchased in tin canisters, and may also be prepared at home. Dry the biscuits well in a slow oven; roil them and