Stock. 139 add sufficient cold water to cover the contents of the pan with the vege- tables, herbs and seasoning. Boil about 3 hours, and strain off the liquor and free it from fat. Average Cost, 6d. per pint. 276- CLEAR STOCK. (Fr.—Consomme.) Ingredients.—The carcasses and any parts left of a roast fowls, 1 lb. lean beef, 4- lb. of ham, 3 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 3 carrots, 1 leek, 2 quarts of common stock, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt. Mode. Chop up the fowls and toss them, with the onions, cut in slices, in the butter in a saucepan. Let them get cold, then add the beef and ham, cut in small pieces ; fill up the saucepan with the stock, adding the vegetables, heibs and seasoning ; let the whole simmer for about 3 hours, then strain free from fat and clarify. Average Cost, is. per quart. 277.—BONE STOCK. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of bones, 2 or 3 carrots, 2 onions, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt and a few cloves, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Chop the bones and put them, with the seasoning and the onion, in an air-tight vessel and let them boil for 8 hours ; then strain and remove the fat. Time.—8 to 9 hours.—Average Cost, z±d. per quart. 278.—WHITE STOCK. (Fr.— Blond de Veau.) (To be used in the preparation of White Soups.) Ingredients.—4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, any poultry trimmings or a rabbit, 4 slices of lean ham, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, 12 white pepper-corns, 2 oz. of salt, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of herbs, 1 oz. butter, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut up the veal, and put it, with the bones and trimmings of poultry and the ham, into the stewpan, which has been rubbed with the butter. Moisten with £ a pint of water, and simmer till the gravy begins to flow. Then add the 4 quarts of water and the remainder of the in- gredients ; simmer for 5 hours. After skimming and straining it carefully through a very fine hair sieve, it will be ready for use. Time.—hours. Average Cost, is. per quart. Note.—When stronger stock is desired, double the quantity of veal, or put in an old fowl. The liquor in which a young turkey or a fowl has been boiled is an excellent addition to all white stock or soups, and the bird is better boiled in the stock-pot than in water. Bones that have been boiled once for brown stock can be boiled again with fresh vegetables for white.