830 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry, and serve hot or cold, although the latter is the more usual mode. It is more economical to make two or three tarts at one time, as the trimmings from one tart answer for lining the edges of the dish for another and so much paste is not required as when they are made singly. Unless for family use, never make fruit-pies in very large dishes; select them, however, as deep as possible. Time.—\ hour to 40 minutes. Average Cost, in full season, 10d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August. Note.—A few currants added to the cherries will be found to impart a nice piquant taste to them. Cherries.—According to Lucullus, the cherry-tree was known in Asia in the year of Rome 680. Seventy different species of cherries, wild and cul- tivated, exist, which are distinguishable from each other by the difference cherry. of their form, size and colour. The French distil from cherries a liqueur named kirsch-wasser {eau de cerises) ; the Italians prepare, from a cherry called marusca, the liqueur named marasquin, sweeter and more agreeable than the former. The most wholesome cheiries have a tender and delicate skin; those with a hard skin should be very carefully masticated. Sweetmeats, syrups, tarts, entremets, &c„ of cherries are universally approved. 1748.-CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Ingredients.—5 oz. of bread-crumbs, I oz. of pounded almonds, £ lb. of chocolate, f pint of milk, or milk and cream mixed, 3 oz. of sugar, vanille flavouring, 3 eggs. Mode.—Boil the milk with the chocolate and sugar and pour it on the bread. Add the yolks of the eggs and the flavouring and beat web. Then butter a mould thoroughly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and also the cream, if any is used. Steam it for an hour, or until it is firm, and serve with custard or cream sauce flavoured with vanilla. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, iod. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Chocolate powder or good cocoa can replace the chocolate. If the pudding must be made in a hurry, the whites and yolks of the eggs can be put in together. 1749.—COCOA NUT PIE. Ingredients.—I lb. of grated nut, 1 quart of milk, 1 glass of white wine, 8 eggs, 4 heaped dessertspoonfuls of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 biscuit, puff-paste, \ a nutmeg. Mode.—Carefully free the nut from the brown outer skin and put it in a saucepan to boil very slowly for 8 minutes. Pound the sugar finely and beat it to a froth with the eggs, melt and pour in the butter, add the wine,