Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. 930 Igsg.-INDIAN FRITTERS. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour, boiling water, the yolks of 4 eggs, the whites of 2, hot lard or clarified dripping, jam. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin, and pc" over it sufficient boiling water to make it into a stiff paste, taking care „ j stir and beat it well, to prevent it getting lumpy. Leave it a little time to cool, and then break into it (without beating them at first) the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, and stir and beat all well together. Have ready some boiling lard or butter; drop a dessertspoonful of batter in at a time, and fry the fritters of a light brown. They should rise so much as to be almost like balls. Serve on a dish, with a spoonful of preserve or marmalade dropped in between each fritter. This is an excellent dish for a hasty addition to dinner, if a guest unexpectedly arrives ; it being so easily and quickly made, and it is always a great favourite. Time.—From 5 to 8 minutes to fry the fritters. Average Cost, ex- clusive of the jam, 5d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. iggo—INDIAN TRIFLE. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, the rind of £ large lemon, sugar to taste, 5 heaped tablespoonfuls of rice flour, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, £ pint of custard. Mode.—Boil the milk and lemon-rind together until the former is well flavoured ; take out the lemon-rind and stir in the rice flour, which should first be moistened with cold milk, and add sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten it nicely. Boil gently for about 5 minutes, and keep the mixture stirred ; take it off the fire, let it cool a little, and pour it into a glass dish. When cold, cut the rice out in the form of a star, or any other shape that may be preferred; take out the spare rice, and fill the space with boiled custard. Blanch and cut the almonds into strips, stick them over the trifle, and garnish it with pieces of bright-coloured jelly, or preserved fruits, or candied citron. Time.--£ hour to simmer the milk, 5 minutes after the rice is added. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 1 trifle. Seasonable at any time. The Citron belongs to the same species as the lemon, being considered only as a variety, the distinction between them not being very great. It is larger, and is less succulent, but more acid; with a little artificial heat, the citron comes to as great perfection in England as in Spain and Italy. The fruit is oblong, and about 5 or 6 inches in length. The tree is thorny. The juice forms an excellent lemonade with sugar and water ; its uses in punch, negus, and in medicine, are well known. The rind is very thick, and, when candied with sugar, forms an excellent sweetmeat. There are several varieties cultivated in England, one of which is termed the Forbidden Fruit.