1290 Recipes for German Cookery. them moderately in salt and water for a quarter of an hour. Serve up with bread-crumbs fried in butter and suet, and a sauce of melted butter thickened with grated potato. These dumplings are eaten alone or with Sauerkraut. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 2932-FRANKFURTER BRATWURST. (Frankfort Sausages.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of tender, lean pork, 1 lb. of fat, mace, coriander seed, pepper, salt, claret, and sausage skins. Mode.—Chop the lean and fat pork very fine, add the other ingredients to taste, mix with claret to the consistency of sausage-meat, and fill the skins. These sausages are always gently boiled for three-quarters of an hour, either in beer (not too bitter) or water, enough to cover them, before being fried for a quarter of an hour in hot butter. They may be served up with apple sauce well sweetened and spiced with cinnamon. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, iod. per lb. Seasonable from September to March. 2933.—DELICATE VEAL FRICASSEE. (An Entree.) Ingredients.—Breast of veal, 2 oz. of butter, 1 sweetbread, a few mushrooms and asparagus, a few thin sausages, parsley root, mace, lemon, 1 egg, grated rusk or bread-crumbs, salt. Mode.—Bone and beat the meat, cut it into convenient-sized pieces; wash them and put them in a saucepan with some cold water on the fire, until the water comes to a boil, then take out the pieces, pour cold water over them and thoroughly dry them. Heat 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, let the meat stew in it for a quarter of an hour, add sufficient boiling water to make the gravy required, salt, parsley root cut into slices 1 inch long, mushrooms to taste, cover close and simmer gently for if hour. The following to be added a quarter of an hour before serving up; 1 sweet- bread, some boiled heads of asparagus, some small 'ausages, slices of lemon, mace, and grated rusk or bread-crumb. Before serving, add the ;yolk of 1 egg and garnish with forcemeat balls either of meat or crab, boiled in salt and water. Time.—if hour. Average Cost, is. per lb. Sufficient for 5 to 6 persons. Seasonable from March till October.