Churning. 1151 2561. Butter, with regard to its dietetic properties, may be regarded nearly in the light of vegetable oils and animal fats; but it becomes sooner rancid than most other fat oils. When fresh, it can- not but be considered as very wholesome ; but it should be quite free from rancidity. If slightly salted when it is fresh, its wholesome- ness is probably not at all impaired: but should it begin to turn rancid, salting will not correct its unwholesomeness. When salt butter is put into casks, the upper part next the air is very apt to become rancid, and this rancidity is also liable to affect the whole cask. 2562. Different Butters. —Effing butter is the kind most esteemed in London. Fresh butter comes to London from Buckinghamshire, Suffolk, Oxfordshire, Yorkshire, Devonshire, &c. Cambridge butter is esteemed next to fresh ; Devonshire butter is nearly similar in quality to the latter ; Irish butter sold in London is all salted, but is generally good. The number of firkins exported annually from Ireland amounts to 420,000, equal to a million of money. Dutch hitter is in good repute all over Europe, America, and even India; and no country in the world is so successful in the manufacture of this article, Holland supplying more butter to the rest of the world than any country whatever. There are three methods pursued in the manufacture of butter:—In one, the cream is separated from the milk, and in that state it is converted into butter by churning, as is the practice about Epping; in the other, the milk is subjected to the same process, which is the method usually followed in Cheshire. In Devon and Cornwall, and the West of England generally, the milk, as soon as it comes from the cow, is heated over a stove or hot water pipes, which makes the cream rise and thicken into the well-known “ clotted cream,” afterwards very readily and quickly turned into butter. The first method is generally said to give the richest butter, and the last the largest quantity, though some are of opinion that there is little difference either in quality or quantity. 2563. To 3fake Butter.—To produce this useful and, when well made, delicious necessary for our table, various means are employed. Be- tween the primitive mode of shak- ing milk in a leathern bottle to the elaborate two-handled churns of present dairy repute, lie many ex- periments in butter-producing and in chum-making. 2564. Churning. — A great many different churns are sold, but the secrets of good butter-making are simpler than any, and applic- able to all. The first is scrupulous cleanliness. Everything must be scalded daily with boiling water, rinsed with cold water, and used wet. Every utensil must be set out in the open air every day. FRESH BUTTER.