1082 General Observations on Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. Rye bread comes next to wheaten bread; it is not so rich in gluten, but is said to keep fresh longer, and to have some laxative qualities. Barley bread, Indian-corn bread, &c., made from barley, maize, oats, rice, potatoes, &c., “rises” badly, because the grains in question contain but little gluten, so that the bread is heavy, close in texture, and difficult of digestion ; in fact, wheat-flour has to be added before panification can take place. In countries where wheat is scarce and maize abundant, the people make the latter a chief article of sustenance, prepared in different forms. BREAD-MAKING. 2381. Panification, or bread-rnaTcing, ordinarily consists of the following procesess :—Fifty or sixty per cent, of water is added to the flour with the addition of some yeast. In this country brewer’s yeast from malt is generally preferred, but dried yeast imported from France and Germany has a large sale. All kinds of leavening matter have, however, been and are still used in different parts of the world; in the East Indies, “ toddy,” which is a liquor that flows from the wounded cocoa-nut tree; and, in the West Indies, “dunder,” or the refuse of the distillation of rum. The dough then undergoes the well-known Erocess called kneading. The yeast produces fermentation, a process which may e thus described The dough reacting upon the leavening matter introduced, the starch of the flour is transformed into saccharine matter, the saccharine matter being afterwards changed into alcohol, water, and carbonic acid gas. The dough must be well “ bound,” and yet allow the escape of the little bubbles of carbonic acid which result from fermentation, and which in their passage cause the numerous little holes which are seen in light bread. 2382. Yeast is a living plant, and most of the mistakes in its use would be avoided if we understood this. Extremes of cold and heat kill it, and a tempera- ture that it does not like prevents it from growing actively at the time, even though it may not be hot or cold enough to put an end to its growing in future under better conditions. Under a microscope each plant can be seen. If a few be put into flour and water, potatoes and water, or any suitable mixture, they grow and multiply, producing more yeast plants like themselves, and in growing they give out carbonic acid gas and water and a little alcohol. Cooks talk about keeping a little yeast in sugar and water, but it is kept only as this year’s corn is kept when it is sown to make next year’s bread. It does not grow freely in sugar and water only, it wants something more. Flour and sugar is easy and con- venient, or potatoes. The old-fashioned sugared tea is a very good instance of the accord between science and experience, and is as good a mixture as is at hand in the kitchen. The better the food suits the yeast the faster it grows; in some mixtures, carefully prepared on purpose, it grows so fast that as much as will lie on a shilling fills a cup in an hour or two. It must always be kept warm, at blood heat or lower, unless it is wanted to check its growth, and then a cool place is best. 2383. Growth of Yeast.—One practical use of these facts is that, given a little good yeast, any amount more can be made. A second is that if brewer’s yeast is bitter, a little of it will always grow some new yeast that is not bitter. Rough usage will also prevent its growth. Before making any quantity of bread, it is wise to try the yeast and see if it is lively, by mixing a little and setting it on the stove for an hour, but on no account must it boil, as that would effectually kill it. 2384. Home-made yeast is sometimes made of malt and hops, and no east is added by the maker. It might seem that the plant of which we have