1248 General Observations on American Cookery. husbands are emigrating to try their fortunes in the New Country, will find that the knowledge of all household work and cookery, if not in constant requisition, is absolutely necessary to provide against emergencies. 2819. American cooking has come to us to a certain extent, and with American stoves we are most of us familiar, and very excellent they are. Inter- national Exhibitions have shown us how the specialties of the country are made, and most of the provisions for which America is noted by the new systems of importation come to us in perfect condition, while those that will not bear transporting fresh, we are certain to be able to procure tinned or, as Americans say, “ canned." 2820. The cooking of meat is much the same in America as in England, only that, out of the towns, it is so much cheaper and so plentiful that it is more wastefully treated, and very often as much is thrown away in one household as would keep another. 2821. Fish.—The employment of fish in America as a diet is exceptionally large, the immense extent of the American coasts, Atlantic and Pacific, being yet supplemented by the resources of the large rivers and great lakes, so that a constant supply is obtainable of not only most of the fish most esteemed in England, but of others unknown to us. We give recipes for the cooking of halibut and clams, the former a fish scarcely appreciated here, the latter a shell- fish that is used by Americans in the same way as we use oysters. Of these they have a far more abundant supply than we have, and they are, therefore, not esteemed a luxury as here. 2822. Of poultry and game in America it is well known there is an abun- dant supply, while the varieties of the latter are numerous. The preserving of game in the European sense of the word is not practised in America, but the seasons for it are nearly the same. 2823. Vegetables and fruits are not luxuries with Americans as they are too often at home. Nearly all the vegetable products of the earth are to be found in their immense extent of territory, and Americans use and appreciate these products, and find an infinite variety in food prepared from grain, fruit and vegetables. 2824. Bread-making, that is home bread-making, is practised in every household, and good pure bread of great variety (so many different flours are used and sometimes blended) is never lacking, to say nothing of the crackers, risen biscuits, and other dainty breakfast dishes that vary the monotony of the house- hold loaf or hot rolls of English breakfast tables. 2825. Candies and ice-creams are now almost as familiar to us as to those to whom we are to a great extent indebted for them. The idea of sugar being detrimental to the teeth is an exploded one, but it is known that the ice- creams and ice-cold drinks are very often injurious when partaken of too freely, as is sometimes the case in America. 2826. American drinks we do not speak of in this chapter, as they have already been dealt with in that on beverages. We need only say that as they make them they are most delicious and excellent substitutes for those we combine with more alcohol and less refreshment. The American fluid beef is a splendid drink for cold weather, nourishing and warming and well suited to the climate in which so much of it is consumed, and we are just beginning to find it an excellent substitute for wines and spirits in the cold weather at home.