1593 The Doctor. watched, and if it is found not to be suffering from rabies, no harm will result to the patient. This will soon make itself apparent, for, if mad, it will be seen snapping at imaginary objects, with a copious flow of saliva from the mouth, and a convulsive closing of the jaws. Treatment.—The wound should be at once sucked, and a red-hot wire or a cinder laid upon it as a cautery, and then some soothing alkaline lotion, as ammonia water or lead and opium, applied. Stimulants, such as the spirits of sal-volatile in teaspoonful doses, may be given every two or three hours. Snake-bites.—Bites from serpents received abroad are exceedingly formidable injuries, and may be followed by death within a few hours, so that prompt action is necessary. Treatment.—The part should be at once sucked. A tight bandage should be applied above the wound, either by means of an elastic band, a leather strap, or a handkerchief twisted tightly by means of a stick. The wound should then be freely cauterised by means of a red-hot wire or a red-hot cinder, or the part may be cut out with a knife, or caustic, such as nitrate of silver, may be applied to the wound ; a red-hot wire is, however, the best. Stimulants, espe- cially preparations of ammonia, must be freely given. A teaspoonful may be put into a wineglassful of water, and the patient given a tablespoonful every quarter of an hour. If those present are afraid to suck the wound, a wineglass, into which a piece of burning paper has been put to exhaust the air, shall be inverted over it. Stings.—If the sting still remains in the wound, it must of course be removed ; then some alkaline lotion should be applied to the part, such as a little ammonia water or liquor potassse and water, or bicarbonate of soda and water. DOMESTIC MEDICINES AND WHAT ILLNESSES AND COMPLAINTS THEY SHOULD BE USED FOR. All drugs should be kept in bottles under lock and key and should be properly stoppered and carefully labelled. 3592. Alum (Dried).—This substance may be used with advantage in case of bleeding piles, leech bites or slight cuts. It should be freely dusted over the part after wiping it dry. 3593. Arnica.—This is a useful application in sprains and bruises. The tincture should be freely brushed over the part three or four times a day. 3594. Dorax.—This substance is used either dissolved in water or mixed with glycerine or honey in the treatment of the white mouth of infants or the small ulcers that are often met with on the mucous surfaces of the lips and gums. It maybe freely applied to the part with a feather or small brush. 3595. Camphorated Oil.—This is a useful application in chest colds and glandular swellings of the neck. It should be warmed at the fire or by placing the bottle in hot water and then rubbed into the part with the hand. 3596. Castor Oil.—This is a gentle but efficient purgative. Dose.—A teaspoonful to children ; a tablespoonful to adults. It is useful in cases of con- stipation or where an indigestible article of diet is giving rise to griping pain in the bowels. 3597. Dill Water.—This is frequently given to children during teething, when they appear to suffer from flatulence and are griped and uncomfortable. Dose.—A teaspoonful to a child a year old.