578 General Observations on Birds. however, who have an accurate ear, and who have given their attention to the songs of birds, can frequently distinguish some which have their notes mixed with those of another species; but this is in general so trifling, that it can hardly be con- sidered as more than the mere varieties of provincial dialects. 1262. The Food of Birds. — We find that it varies, as it does in quadrupeds, according to the species. Some are altogether carnivorous ; others, as so many of the web-footed tribes, subsist on fish ; others, again, on insects and worms ; and others on grain and fruit. The extraordinary powers of the gizzard of the granivorous tribes, in comminuting their food so as to prepare it for digestion, would, were they not supported by incontrovertible facts founded on experiment, appear to exceed all credibility. Tin tubes, full of grain, have been forced into the stomachs of turkeys, and in twenty-four hours have been found broken, compressed and distorted into every shape. Twelve small lancets, very sharp both at the point and edges, have been fixed in a ball of lead, covered with a case of paper, and given to a turkey-cock, and left in its stomach for eight hours. After that time the stomach was opened, when nothing appeared except the naked ball. The twelve lancets were broken to pieces, whilst the stomach remained perfectly sound and entire. The stones found in the stomachs of birds, replace teeth in that they grind down the grain and other hard substances which consti- tute their food. The stones themselves, being also ground down and separated by the powerful action of the gizzard, are mixed with the food, and, no doubt, contribute very greatly to the health, as well as to the nourishment of the animals. 1263. All Birds are Oviparous; the eggs which they produce are, in the various species, different both in figure and colour, as well as in point of number. They contain the elements of the future young, for the perfecting of which in the incubation, a bubble of air is always placed at the large end, between the shell and the inside skin. This air-bubble gets larger by absorbtion through the shell, and evaporation of the fluid contents, so that a large air-bubble is the sign of a stale egg. During incubation, the shell is dissolved, and goes to form the bones of the chick. To preserve an egg perfectly fresh, and even fit for incubation, for five or six months after it has been laid, Reaumur, the French naturalist, has shown that it is only necessary to stop up its pores with a slight coating of varnish or mutton-suet. Birds, however, do not lay eggs, before they have some place to put them ; accordingly, they construct nests for themselves with astonishing art. “ Each circumstance How artfully contrived to favour warmth I Here read the reason of the vaulted roof ; How Providence compensates, ever kind, The enormous disproportion that subsists Between the mother and the numerous brood Which her small bulk must quicken into life.” In building their nests, the male and female generally assist each other, and they contrive to make the outside of their tenement bear as great a resemblance as possible to the surrounding foliage or branches ; so that it cannot very easily be discovered even by those who are in search of it. This art of nidification is one of the most wonderful contrivances which the wide field of Nature can show, and which, of itself, ought to be sufficient to compel mankind to the belief, that they and every other part of the creation are constantly under the protecting power of a superintending Being, whose benign dispensations seem as exhaustless as they are unlimited. 1264. Birds as Food.—There is no bird, nor any bird’s egg that is known to be poisonous, though they may, and often do, become unwholesome