557 Por-k Pies. 1216.—PORK PIES. (Fr.—Pates de Pore.) (Warwickshire Recipe.) Ingredients.—For the crust, 5 lbs. of lard to 14 lbs. of flour, milk and water. For filling the pies, to every 3 lbs. of meat allow 1 oz. of salt, 2J oz. of pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, 1 pint of water. Mode.— Rub into the flour a portion of the lard; the remainder put with sufficient milk and water to mix the crust, and boil this gently for a quarter of an hour. Pour it boiling on the flour, and knead and beat it till perfectly smooth. Now raise the crust in either a round or oval form, cut up the pork into pieces the size of a nut, season it in the above pro- portion, and press it compactly into the pie, in alternate layers of fat and lean, and pour in a small quantity of water ; lay on the lid, cut the edges smoothly round, and pinch them together. Bake in a brick oven, which should be slow, as the meat is very solid. Very frequently, the inex- perienced cook finds much difficulty in raising the crust. She should bear in mind that it must not be allowed to get cold, or it will fall imme- diately; to prevent this, the operation should be performed as near the fire as possible. As considerable dexterity and expertness are necessary to raise the crust with the hand only, a glass bottle or small jar may be placed in the middle of the paste, and the crust moulded on this ; but be particular that it is kept warm the whole time. Sufficient.—The proportions for 1 pie are 1 lb. of flour and 3 lbs. of meat. Seasonable from September to March. 1217.-LITTLE RAISED PORK-PIES. {Fr.—Petits Pat6s de Pore.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, i lb. of butter, i lb. of mutton suet, salt and white pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of the neck of pork, x dessertspoonful of powdered sage. Mode.—Well dry the flour, mince the suet, and put these with the butter into a saucepan, to be made hot, and add a little salt. When melted, mix it up into a stiff paste, and put it before the fire with a cloth over it until ready to make up; chop the pork into small pieces, season it with white pepper, salt and powdered sage ; divide the paste into rather small pieces, raise it in a round or oval form, fill with the meat, and bake in a brick oven. These pies will require a fiercer oven than those in the preceding recipe, as they are made so much smaller, and consequently do not require so soaking a heat. Time.—If made small, about hour. Seasonable from September to March.