g6 Duties of Cooks and Kitchen-inaids. please the mistress of an establishment as to notice that, although she has not been present to see that the work was done, attention to smaller matters has been carefully paid, with a view to giving her satisfaction and increasing her comfort. By the time that the cook has performed the duties mentioned above, and well swept, brushed, and dusted her kitchen, the breakfast-bell will most likely summon her to the parlour, to “ bring in ” the breakfast. It is the oook’s de- partment, generally, in the smaller establishments, to wait at breakfast, as the housemaid, by this time, has gone up-stairs into the bedrooms, and has there applied herself to her various duties. But many ladies prefer the breakfast brought in by the housemaid, though cleared away and washed up by the cook. Whichever way this part of the work is managed, each servant should have her duties clearly laid down to her. The cook usually answers the bells and single knocks at the door in the early part of the morning, as the tradesmen, with whom it is her more special business to speak, call at these hours. 192. The Preparation of Pinner is the most important part of the cook’s work, when she begins to feel the weight and responsibility of her situation, as she must take upon herself all the dressing and the serving of the principal dishes, which her skill and ingenuity have mostly prepared. Whilst these, how- ever, are cooking, she must be busy with her pastry, soups, gravies, entrees, &c. Stock, or what the French call bouillon, being the basis of most made-dishes, must be always at hand, in conjunction with her sweet herbs and spices for seasoning. " A place for everything, and everything in its place,” must be her rule, in order that time may not be wasted in looking for things when they are wanted, and in order that the whole apparatus of cooking may move with the regularity and pre- cision of a well-adjusted machine—all must go on simultaneously. The vegetables and sauces must be ready with the dishes they are to accompany, and in order that they may be suitable, the smallest oversight must not be made in their pre- paration. It is a good plan when a large dinner of a good many courses has to be prepared to write out, and hang in a conspicuous place, two lists of the day’s dishes, one of the order in which they must be served, with every accessory complete, that nothing may be forgotten, and one of the order in which each should be cooked, that nothing may be over or underdone. When the dinner-hour has arrived it is the duty of the cook to dish up such dishes as may, without injury, stand for some time covered on the hot-plate or in the hot-closet; but such as are of a more important recherche kind must be delayed until the order " to serve” is given from the drawing-room. Then comes haste; but there must be no hurry—all must work with order. The cook takes charge of the fish, soups and poultry ; and the kitchen-maid of the vegetables, sauces and gravies. These she puts into their appropriate dishes, whilst the scullery-maid waits on and assists the cook. Everything must be timed so as to prevent its getting cold, whilst great care should be taken that, between the courses, no more time is allowed to elapse than is necessary, for fear that the company in the dining-room lose all relish for what has yet to come of the dinner. When the dinner has been served, the most im- portant feature in the daily life of the cook is at an end. She must, however, every night and morning, look to the contents of her larder, taking care to keep everything sweet and clean, so that no disagreeable smells may arise from, the gravies, milk, or meat that may be there. These are the principal duties of a cook in a first-rate establishment. In smaller establishments, the housekeeper often conducts the higher depart- ment of cooking (see 48, 49, 50), and the cook, with the assistance of a kitchen or scullery-maid, as this domestic servant is indifferently called, performs some of the subordinate duties of the kitchen. When circumstances render it necessary, the cook engages to perform the whole of the work of the kitchen, and, in some places, a portion of the housework also.