Homoeopathic Treatment. 1619 3683. Bruises.—For simple bruises and contusions make a lotion of one tea- spoonful of Arnica tincture to four tablespoonfuls of water and apply to the part affected by lint doubled twice or thrice and soaked in the lotion. Cover with oiled silk and change the lint or renew the dipping as soon as the lint is dry. 3684. Catarrh, or Cold in the Head.—The chief symptoms of this disorder are to be found in watering of the eyes, which feel hot and inflamed ; a general feverishness, especially in the head, stoppage of, and running from the nose, accompanied with sneezing, all these being sometimes followed by a troublesome cough. The principal remedies, in conjunction with general abstinence and the promotion of perspiration by a warm bath, are Aconitum napellus for symptoms as named above; Belladonna for sore throat and tickling in the throat causing cough ; Mercurius for running from the nose and frequent sneezing ; and Nux vomica for stoppage in the nose accompanied by constipated bowels. The dose for either remedy is one drop of the tincture in one tablespoonful of water every two, three or four hours, according to the severity of the attack. Camomilla in the same proportions and at the same intervals of time is a favourite and useful remedy for this complaint in women and children. 3685. Colic, or Pain in the Bowels. —This is occasioned by a variety of causes which induce severe pain in the region of the bowels, accompanied by vomiting and cold perspiration all over the body. The sufferer should have a warm bath and be well covered up with clothes in bed, and have flannels, plunged in warm water and wrung out as dry as possible, applied to the bowels. If the abdomen be very tender when touched and the patient be feverish, Aconitum napellus is indicated. For colic accompanied by severe spasmodic pains, Belladonna Is required ; for colic arising from partaking of food too plentifully, accompanied by restlessness and grinding of the teeth in sleep, Coffaa; for intensification of pain at night, with nausea and loose greenish evacuations, Mercurius; for spasms and pain mainly caused by indigestion, Mercurius ; for colic in children Camomilla. Doses for adults, one drop of the tincture in one tablespoonful of water every three hours ; for children, half the quantity ; for infants, one-fourth the quantity. 3686. Constipation—The symptoms of constipation are too well known to require mention here. Where the constipation is habitual and obstinate an enema of warm water or of warm water gruel is of great assistance. For persons who have a bilious temperament and suffer from rheumatism, or when the con- stipation is accompanied by a chilly feeling, Bryonia is desirable ; for constipation that is occasioned by sedentary occupation and accompanied by headache and a tendency to piles, Nux vomica is indicated, in alternation with Sulphur where con- stipation is habitual. Pulsatilla is better suited for women than Nux vomica, and Opium is useful when constipation is the result of lead poisoning, with great diffi- culty of evacuation or utter inability in this direction. The doses in every case and of every remedy are one drop of the tincture in one tablespoonful of water administered every four hours till relief is obtained. - 3687. Cough.—For a hard, dry cough Aconitum napellus is required; fora cough with wheezing, difficulty of expectoration and need of keeping the head high in bed, Antvmonium tartaricum ; for a dry, spasmodic cough, with sore throat and thirst, or for a nervous cough, Belladonna ; for cough with expectoration and pain, especially between the shoulders when coughing, Bryonia; for cough accompanied with constipation and fulness at the pit of the stomach, Nux vomica; for cough in children the most suitable remedy is Ipecacuanha. Dose—one drop of the tincture in one tablespoooful of water, given every two, three or four hours as needful.