1152 General Observations on Milk, Butter, Cheese, &c. The second is a right temperature for the cream. A thermometer is absolutely necessary, and must register 55 to 60 degrees when churning begins. The cream can easily be warmed by staying in the kitchen for a while, or cooled by being set on the stones in a draught, or with ice, or with salt and water. But if it is churned too hot it flies up in a froth—‘‘goes mothery," as country people say— and if too cold the butter is long in coming, and soft when come. An even stroke, not too quick, for the churn handle is another thing to re- member. A dairy that is cool and airy, and not near any refuse heaps or open drains is also essential to success. Milk will not keep sweet in a close dairy. Butter, under these conditions, should come in about fifteen minutes. There then remains only to wash it quite free from buttermilk, which is better done by a wooden kneading trough than by the hand. Salt is generally added in the proportion of three-quarters of an ounce to one ounce for each three lbs. It should be dried and finely powdered. Indifferent butter is often improved by washing in water with bi-carbonate of soda, and then kneading with sweet milk, salt, and a very little white sugar. 2565. Margarine.—A great deal has been said about margarine or “ bosch ” butter. Butter and margarine are classed together in the list of imports published by the Custom House officials, and butter and margarine were sold together to the general public, both under the name of the more expensive product. For the public at the present time has a prejudice against margarine and will not buy it under its own name at 7d. or 8d. a pound, though it found a ready sale under the name of fresh butter at double that price. An Act has now been passed to prevent this fraudulent sale, and margarine must only be sold under that name, while butter must be made exclusively of milk or cream. Margarine is bought by pastry-cooks and by some large consumers as well as by retail traders, and if well manufactured and sold at a reasonable retail price, it would be a most valuable addition to the food of the people, who commonly suffer from a want of fatty food. Margarine is made of oleo-mar- garine, the oily constituent of the fat of animals, melted, mixed with a certain proportion of milk and of butter, and then churned. Afterwards it is washed and worked like butter, and made up to imitate the kinds most in demand. If carefully prepared it is perfectly wholesome, but it is always less digestible than butter, and it often is carelessly prepared and insufficiently purified. In the Board of Trade returns for two months’imports in the early part of 1885, it is stated that butter and margarine (then called butterine) were received in the proportion of 254,000 cwt. of butter to 156,631 cwt. of margarine. So that more than one-third of the produce imported to be used as butter is declared to be dripping adulterated with or made up to imitate butter. How much is not declared the public is left to imagine. 2566. An Easy Method of Washing the Butter. —Remove the butter from the churn, pour off the milk or butter-milk, as the case may be, half fill the churn with cold water (a little salt may be added to the water), re- place plunger and throw back the butter, and operate the churn as before for one minute. This process will extract all the milk from the butter, which may then be placed in a sieve to allow the water to strain from it, and worked in the usual manner. 2567. To Sweeten Rancid Butter.—There are several ways of doing this: by beating it in lime water (water in which a pound should be washed should have about 15 drops of chloride): by scalding with boiling water, or by washing in new milk. The last-named is the safest and best method, and those who live some way from the place from whence they procure their supplies of