163 Vegetable Soups. 33°- SAGO SOUP. (Fr.—Potage au Sagou.) Ingredients.—5 oz. of sago, 2 quarts of stock, No. 273. ct^°de'7~WaSh the„Sag° hl water’ and add il; bY degrees to the boiling stock, and Simmer till the sago is entirely dissolved, and forms a sort of Time. Nearly an hour. Average Cost, 9d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for eight persons. »nda|3l«“*"»>’ »-M aild'in'fho wh,?h grows spontaneously in the East "indies and in the archipelago of the Indian Ocean. There it forms th« Principal farinaceous diet of the inhabitants In order to the'ree's feiled and sawn in pieces The pith Is then taken out and put in receptacles ot cold water where it ts stirred untd the flour separates from the filaments and sinks to the bottom,.where it is suffered to remain unti’l the water,is poured off, when it is taken out and spread on wicker frames to dry. To give it the round granular form In which we find it come to this country, it is passed thmuoi, Snnt^Vnr6? 11pubbed .)ln.'° iittle balls, and dried. The free is not fit for felling until it has attained a growth of seven years, when a single trunk will yield 900 lbs. weight • and as an acre of ground will grow 430 of these trees, a lafge return of flour is the result, fhe best quality has a slightly reddfsh hue, and easily dissolves to a jelly, in hot water As a dSorn6 dle,> “ 13 mUCh US6d’ aAd “ » vearyreasySof SAGO PALM. 331-SEMOLINA SOUP. (Fr.-Potage Semola.) NoIl?7IiedlentS,_5 °f 5emoIina' 2 ‘lull ls of boiling stock, No. 273 or to ‘he Sem0li°a in'° ‘he boi,i"g stock’ koep stirring, hour and seL S ” S°‘”S m‘° IUmpS- Simmer for half “ Time. Half an hour. Average Cost, $d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for eight people. purpose of making the^bes^vermiceni wheat of Ita,y’ which is imported for the the Italian warehouses. It is also called soojee, 332.—SOLFERINO SOUP. {Fr. Ingredients.—4 eggs, ± pint of cream, 2 Potage a I’CEuf.) of fresh butter, salt 1 Mpcdrrr,‘h’a lli,,e "h*°ih=: Mode.-Beat the eggs, put them into a stewpan, and add the cream Mter and seasoning; stir in as much flour aswil bring if to the con’ iistency of dough j make it into balls, either round or e^ap^