9°3 Apple Fritters. 1927.—APPLES A LA PARISIENNE. (With a Salpicon of Fruit.) Ingredients.—1 savarin (see No. 1875), 9 apples, 9 pears, 14 slices of preserved pineapple, preserved cherries, apricots and greengages, 2 pints of syrup, £ gill of noyeau. Mode.—Bake a savarin in a cylinder mould, 8 inches across, and when done turn it into a dish, so that it forms a stand nearly i| inch high. Peel 2 of the apples and cut them into dice and boil them in syrup; cut up the pears and prepare them in the same way, adding a drop or two of cochineal to colour them. Peel and core the rest of the apples and cut them in halves, boil them also. Cut the slices of pineapple to the same size as the pieces of apple, warm them in syrup and place them in alter- nation with the apple round the savarin. Cut the other preserved fruits into dice, add the noyeau (or any other flavouring) to the syrup and boil all these 1 minute, then fill the circle with this mixture and garnish with preserved cherries. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 4s. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable at any time. 1928.-APPLE FOOL. Ingredients.—Apples, sugar, yolks of eggs, penny sponge cakes. Mode.—Bake some sour cooking apples, remove the pulp with a silver spoon and beat it up with some sifted sugar. To each teacupful allow the yolk of 1 egg, and one spongecake. Beat well and rub through a sieve. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 3d per cupful. Sufficient, allow a cupful for each person. Seasonable from July to March. 1929.—APPLE FRITTERS. (Fr.— Beignets de Pommes.) Ingredients.—For the batter, | lb. of flour, | oz. of butter, £ salt- spoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, apples, hot lard or clarified beef-dripping. Mode.—Break the eggs ; separate the whites from the yolks, and beat them separately. Put the flour into a basin, stir in the butter, which should be melted to a cream ; add the salt, and moisten with sufficient warm milk to make it of a proper consistency, that is to say, a batter that will drop from the spoon. Stir this well, rub down any lumps that may be seen, and add the whites of the eggs, which should have been pre- viously well whisked ; beat up the batter for a few minutes, and it is ready for use. Now peel and cut the apples into rather thick whole slices, without dividing them, and stamp out the middle of each slice, where the