Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 8o8 Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a smooth paste with the water; mix these with the butter, which should be melted ; beat up the eggs, grate the lemon-rind and strain the juice; add these, with the cream, sugar and wine to the other ingredients and stir them well to- gether. When well mixed, put it into a pie-dish lined with puff-paste and bake for half an hour. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 2s. 7d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—To make this pudding more economically, substitute milk for the cream ; but then add rather more than i oz. of finely grated bread. Uses of Sweet Almond.—The kernels of the sweet almond are used either in a green or ripe state, and as an article in the dessert. Into cookery, confectionery, perfumery and medicine, they largely enter, and in domestic economy, should always be used in preference to bitter almonds. Th'e reason for advising this is because the kernels do not contain any hydro- cyanic or prussic acid, although it is found in the leaves, flowers and bark of the tree. When young and green, they are preserved in sugar, like fireen apricots. They lurnish the almond- oil, and the farinaceous matter which is left after the oil is expressed, forms the pate d'amandes of perfumers. In the arts, the oil is employed for the same purposes as the olive-oil, and forms the basis of kalydor, macassar oil, Gowland's lotion and many other articles of that kind vended by perfumers. In medicine, it is considered a nutritive, laxative and an emollient. 1695.—SMALL ALMOND PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—j lb. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, £ lb. of butter, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 table- spoonful of brandy. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a smooth paste with a spoonful of water ; warm the butter, mix the almonds with this, and add the other ingredients, leaving out the whites of 2 eggs, and be particular that these are well beaten. Mix well, butter some cups, half fill almond puddings. them, and bake the puddings from 20 minutes to half an hour. Turn them out on a dish, put a preserved cherry on the top of each, and serve with sweet sauce. Time.—20 minutes to £ hour. Average Cost, is. M. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Husks of Almonds.—In the environs of Alicante, the husks of almonds are ground to a powder, and _enter into the composition of common soap, the large quantity of alkaline principle they contain rendering them suitable for this purpose. It is said that in some parts of France, where they are extensively grown, horses and mules are fed on the green and drv husks ; but, to prevent any evil consequences arising from this practice, they are mixed with chopped straw or oats. 1696.—ALMOND PUFFS. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 4 bitter almonds. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar to a smooth paste,