Toast Grid—Mincing Machine. 73 advantage of this reversible cover is that by turning the utensil on the p.tate hanger and reversing the flap, each side of the meat or bacon that is being cooked can be presented to the fire quickly, and without removing it to turn it round. The tin game ovens are supplied : 11 inches from side to side, at 2s. 6d.: 12 inches, 2S. gd.; and 14 inches, 35. 9d. They are manufactured by Messrs Loveridge and Co., in sizes of 12, 13 and 14 inches wide, and sold by all iron- mongers at 65., 8s., and 10s. 6d. each; or with gridiron to stand in and over dripping-pan, at 8s. 6d., 10s. 6d. and 13s. 6d. each. 138. Toast Grid.— The toast grid for toasting bread is a utensil used for toasting bread on the hot plate of a range; but if the front of an open fire range be large enough, and the heat sufficient, it may be used there with equal conveni- ence and facility. Its form is shown in the illustration in page 74, from which it will be seen that it consists of two frames covered with wire, between which the bread is placed ; the frames are supplied with wire handles, which can be held together with a sliding ring. These grids are so!d at is. 9d. and 2s. III. Utensils Auxiliary to Cooking. 139. Auxiliary Utensils.—To describe everything that it is possible to introduce into the kitchen for use therein is neither practical nor desirable, as it would involve an expenditure of space that would altogether render this section out of proportion to the rest of this work. From the thousand and one articles, however, that might be enumerated and illustrated, some few may be selected that hold a prominent place either from the frequency with which they are brought into use, or from the obvious necessity that exists for having them at hand for use as occasion may require. 140. Weights and Scales.—Out list of auxiliary utensils may be com- menced with this most important article or series of articles, as without a good set of weights and scales it is not possible to ensure success in cooking. Precise- ness in proportioning the various ingredients, in order that no one particular flavour shall predominate, should be the cook’s aim. It must be said, therefore, it is absolutely necessary to have scales, even if other utensils be dispensed with. The cook should bear in mind always to put the weights away in their respective places after she has used them, and to keep her scales in thorough order. In weighing butter, lard, dripping, meat, suet, or anything that is of a greasy nature, the cook should place a piece of paper in the scale before putting in the butter, lard, or other substance to be weighed. By doing this, she will save herself much labour, and will be enabled to keep the metal scale brighter. The price of a set of weights and scales, with weights sufficient to weigh from \ oz. to 7 lbs. is 17s. ; to weigh 14 lbs., 21s. ; and to weigh 28 lbs., 26s. An illustration of a convenient set of weights and scales is given in page 74. 141. Mincing Machine.— Next in importance, perhaps, is a good mincing machine. As meat, when separated into small pieces by mincing, is more easily digested, a mincing machine should be kept in every house in which there are young children, who too often bolt their meat unchewed, especially when cold. For a similar reason, minced meat is useful for those who suffer from indigestion, or who have lost their molar teeth. By many of the mincing machines manu- factured and supplied by Messrs. S. Nye and Co., 143, Oxford Street, London, W. suet may be cut, mincemeat minced, and sausages be made at home. The machine is screwed to the table with the cramp-screw. To make sausages, the meat is cut into pieces about an inch square, some stale bread soaked and mixed with it, as also the seasoning. The skin is run on the nozzle, a small quantity of meat is placed in the hopper, which is kept supplied, the handle