i66 Recipes for Soups. 338—VEGETABLE SOUP. (Fr.—Puree de Legumes.) Ingredients.—7 oz. of carrot, 10 oz. of parsnip, 10 oz. of potato, cut into thin slices; 1 j oz. of butter, 5 teaspoonfuls of flour, a teaspoonful of made mustard, salt aud pepper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, rather more than 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Boil the vegetables in the water 2} hours ; stir them often, and if the water boils away too quickly, add more, as there should be 2 quarts of soup when done. Mix up in a basin the butter and flour, mustard, salt and pepper, with a teacupful of cold water; stir iu the soup, and boil 10 minutes. Have ready the yolks of the eggs in the tureen; pour on, stir well and serve. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 3d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. 339.—'VEGETABLE SOUP. (Fr.—Potage de Legumes.) (A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—Equal quantities of onions, carrots, turnips ; £ lb. of butter, crust of toasted bread, 1 head of celery, a fagot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 2 quarts of com- mon stock or boiling water. Allow f of a lb. of vegetables to 6 quarts of stock, No. 273. Mode.—Cut up the onions, carrots and turnips ; wash and drain them well, and put them in the stewpan, with the butter and powdered sugar. Toss the whole over a sharp fire for 10 minutes, but do not let them brown, or you will spoil the flavour of the soup. When done, pour the stock or boiling water on them; add the bread, celery, herbs and season- ing ; stew for 3 hours; skim well and strain it off; when ready to serve, add a little sliced carrot, celery and turnip, and flavour with a spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, or a little ketchup. Time.—3? hours. . Average Cost, 8d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. 340.—VEGETABLE SOUP. (A nother Mode.) Ingredients.— 1 cabbage, 1 carrot, 2 leeks, celery, i a lettuce, i pint of green peas, 1 small cauliflower, 2 oz. of butter, 2 quarts of stock, No. 274, or water, teaspoonful of sugar, teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—Wash and shred the cabbage, carrot, leeks, celery, and lettuce. Melt the butter in a saucepan and put in the shreded vegetables, fry them very steadily about ten minutes; then add the boiling water or stock. Then add the peas and cauliflowers broken into small sprigs,