938 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Seasonable at any time. Seasonable at any time. 2006.— LIQUEUR JELLY. Ingredients.—1 lb. of lump sugar, 2 oz. of gelatine, pint of water, the juice of 2 lemons, £ pint of liqueur. , Mode.—Put the sugar, with 1 pint of the water, into a saucepan, and boil them gently by the side of the fire until there is no scum remaining, which must be carefully removed as fast as it rises. Simmer the gelatine in the other half pint of water, and skim it carefully in the same manner. Strain the lemon-juice, and add it, with the clarified gelatine, to the syrup ; put in the liqueur, and bring the whole to the boiling point. Let the saucepan remain covered by the side of the fire for a few minutes ; then pour the jelly through a bag, put it into a mould, and set the mould in ice until required for table. Dip the mould in hot water, wipe the outside, loosen the jelly by passing a knife round the edges, and turn it out carefully on a dish. Noyeau, Maraschino, Curaijoa, brandy, or any kind of liqueur, answer for this jelly; and when made with gelatine, liqueur jellies are usually prepared as directed above. Time.—10 minutes to boil the sugar and water. Average Cost, with the best gelatine, 2s. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. 2007.—A SWEET DISH OF MACARONI. Ingredients.—£ lb. of macaroni, 1^ pint of milk, the rind of £ a lemon, 3 oz. of lump sugar, f pint of custard, No. 1969. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan, with the lemon-peel and sugar ; bring it to the boiling-point, drop in the macaroni, and let it gradually swell over a gentle fire, but do not allow the pipes to break. The form should be entirely preserved ; and though tender, should be firm, and not soft, with no part beginning to melt. Should the milk dry away before the macaroni is sufficiently swelled, add a little more. Make a custard by recipe No. 1969, place the macaroni in a dish, and pour the custard over the hot macaroni; grate over it a little nutmeg, and, when cold, garnish the dish with slices of capped citron. Time.—From 40 to 50 minutes to swell the macaroni. Average Cost, with the custard, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. OVAL JELLY-MOULD.