1x38 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. pieces; put it into a large dish, which place in a quick oven ; be careful that it does not burn, and in a short time it will be reduced to oil, with the small pieces of leaf floating on the surface ; and it is of these that the cakes should be made. Gather all the scraps together, put them into a basin with the flour, and rub them well together. Add the currants, sugar, candied i le.ad cake. cut jnto thin slices, and the ground allspice. When all these ingredients are well mixed, moisten with sufficient cold water to make the whole into a nice paste; roll it out thin, cut it into shapes, and bake the cakes in a quick oven from 15 to 20 minutes. These are very economical and wholesome cakes for children; and the lard, melted at home, produced from the flead, is generally better than that you purchase. To prevent the lard from burning, and to ensure its being a good colour, it is better to melt it in a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water; by doing it in this manner, there will be no chance of its discolouring. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. lod. for this quantity. Sufficient to make 3 or 4 dozen cakes. Seasonable from September to March. Wheat is liable to several diseases, which affect the flour made from it, and render it unfit for good bread. The principal of these are the blight, mildew, and smut, which are occasioned by microscopic fungi, which sow themselves and grow upon the stems and ears, destroying the nutritive principles, and introducing matter of a deleterious kind. The farmer is at the utmost pains to keep away these intruders. Wheat, as well as all kinds of corn, is also very liable to be injured by being stacked before it is quite dry ; in which case it will heat, and become musty in the ricks. In wet harvests it is wheat. sometimes impossible to get it sufficiently dried, and a great deal of corn is thus often spoiled. It is generally reckoned that the sweetest bread is made from whe.it threshed out before it is stacked; which shows the importance of studying the best modes of preserving it. The erudite are not agreed as to the aboriginal country of corn ; some say it is .Egypt, others Tartary; and the learned Bailly and the traveller Pallas affirm that it grows spontaneously in Siberia. Be that as it may, the Phocians brought it to Marseilles before the Romans had penetrated into Gaul. The Gauls eat the corn cooked or bruised in a mortar: they did not know, for a long time, how to make fermented bread. 2530-SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, £ lb. of cornflour or ground rice, 1 lb. of butter, £ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, ^ oz. of caraway seeds, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, a few strips of candied orange-peel. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, gradually dredge in the flour, and add the sugar, caraway seeds, and sweet almonds, which should be blanched and cut into small pieces. Work the paste until it is quite smooth, and divide it into six pieces. Put each cake on a separate piece of paper, roll the paste out square to the thickness of about an inch, and pinch it upon all sides. Priok it well, and ornament with one or two strips of candied orange-