1150 General Observations on Milk, Butter, Cheese, Sc. acquires in boiling, but this is not of consequence for many cooking purposes. The excessive sweetness is often objectionable, but unsweetened condensed milk may now be had. Altogether it is a most valuable addition to our stock of foods, especially for infants and children, for whom a plentiful supply of good fresh milk cannot be obtained. A well-known writer says: "For a baby not fed by the mother, condensed milk, rightly mixed, is most nourishing. When condensed milk does not appear to agree with the child, then inquiry will almost certainly show that the fault lies in the mixing, and not in the condensed milk. The con- stitution of one child differs from that of another, and this fact must keep the careful nurse on her guard to anticipate and provide for any peculiarities of diet that may be necessary in consequence. Remembering this, it may be broadly asserted that a healthy child will do well on condensed milk alone for the first three months'’ 2557. Milk carried to a distance, so as to be much agitated, and cooled before it is put into pans to settle for cream, never throws up so much, nor such rich cream, as if the same milk had been put into pans directly after it was milked. 2558. Milk, considered as an aliment, is of such importance in domestic economy as to render all the improvements in its production extremely valuable. To enlarge upon the antiquity of its use is unnecessary ; it has always been a favourite food in Britain. “ Lacte et came vivunt," says Caesar, in his Commentaries: the English of which is, "The inhabitants subsist upon flesh and milk." The breed of the cow has received great improvement in modern times as regards the quantity and quality of the milk which she affords; the form of milch cows, their mode of nourishment and progress, are also manifest in the m iUH.gement of the dairy. Although milk in its natural state be a fluid, yet, con- sidered as an aliment, it is both solid and fluid : for no sooner does it enter the stomach, than it is coagulated by the gastric juice, and separated into curd and whey, both of these being extremely nutritious. Milk of the human subject is much thinner than cow’s milk ; Ass's milk comes the nearest to human milk of any other; Goat's milk is something thicker and richer than cow’s milk; Ewe's milk has the appearance of cow’s milk, and affords a larger quantity of cream; Mare's milk contains more sugar than that of the ewe; Camel's milk is used only in Africa; Buffalo’s milk is employed in India. ' 2559. Value of Milk.—From no other substance, solid or fluid, can so great a number of distinct kinds of aliment be prepared as from milk ; some forming food, others drink ; some of them delicious, and deserving the name of luxuries; all of them wholesome, and some medicinal: indeed, the variety of aliments that seems capable of being produced from milk, appears to be quite endless. In every age this must have been a subject for experiment, and every nation has added to the number by the invention of some peculiarity of its own. BUTTER. 2560. Antiquity of Mutter.—Beckman, in his " History of Inventions,” states that butter was not used either by the Greeks or Romans in cooking, nor was it brought upon their tables at certain meals, as is the custom at present. In England it has been made from time immemorial, though the art of making cheese is said not to have been known to the ancient Britons, and to have been learned from their conquerors. The taste of butter is peculiar, and very unlike any other fatty substance. It is extremely agreeable when of the best quality; £>ut its flavour depends much upon the food given to the cows.