Macaroni Cheese. 1167 2600. —MACARONI. {Another Mode.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of pipe or riband macaroni, £ pint of milk, £ pint of veal or beef gravy, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 3 oz. of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Wash the macaroni and boil it in the gravy and milk until quite tender, without being broken. Drain it, and put it into rather a deep dish. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the cream and 2 tablespoonfuls of the liquor the macaroni was boiled in ; make this sufficiently hot tc thicken, but do not allow it to boil; pour it over the macaroni, over which spnnkle the grated cheese and the butter broken into small pieces; brown with a salamander, or before the fire, and serve. Time.—k to f hour to boil the macaroni, 5 minutes to thicken the eggs and cream, 5 minutes to brown. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2601. -MACARONI. {Another Mode.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of pipe macaroni, £ pint of brown gravy, No. 614, 6 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Mode.—Wash the macaroni, and boil it in salt and water or stock until quite tender; drain it, and put it into rather a deep dish. Have ready a pint of good brown gravy, pour it hot over the macaroni, and send it to table with grated Parmesan served on a separate dish. When the flavour is liked, a little pounded mace may be added to the water in which the macaroni is boiled; but this must always be sparingly added, as it will impart a very strong flavour. Time.—£ to f hour to boil the macaroni. Average Cost, with the gravy and cheese, is. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2602.—CHEESE PATTIES. Ingredients.—I oz. of butter, I oz. of flour, f pint of milk, \ lb. of cheese, 4 eggs, salt and cayenne, some scraps of puff- paste. Mode.—Rub the butter and flour together, and stir over the fire with the milk till it boils, then move the pan to the side of the fire and stir in the yolks of the eggs one by one, next the cheese, grated, and lastly the whites of the eggs, well beaten, and the ^ g BONDON CHEESE.