1176 Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs. TURKEYS’ EGGS. Seasonable at any time. break the eggs into it the same as for poaching, sprinkle them with wnite pepper and fine salt, and put the remainder of the butter, cut into very small pieces, on the top of them. Put the dish on a hot plate, or in the oven, or before the fire, and let it remain until the whites become set, but not hard, when serve immediately, placing the dish they were cooked in on another. To hasten the cooking of the eggs, a salamander may be held over them for a minute; but great care must be taken that they are not too much done. This is an exceedingly nice dish, and one very easily prepared for breakfast. A fire-proof china or earthenware dish is suitable to cook them in. Time.—3 minutes. Average Cost, 5d. Sufficient for 2 persons. 2623.-OVERTURNEO EGGS. Ingredients.—Eggs, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Butter well some pretty little patty-pans, sprinkle them with raspings or finely-crumbed bread-crumbs. Break as carefully as possible an egg into each patty-pan, bake them on a hot plate, or with under heat only. Let the whites of the eggs set, then turn them out, bottom upwards, on spinach or ragout, &c. Time.—3 minutes. Average Cost, id. each Seasonable at any time. 2624.-OX EYES. Ingredients.—Eggs, bread, butter, sour cream, salt. Mode.—Cut slices, an inch thick, or rather less, from good light bread or roll, and cut them into circles, with a proper paste-cutter, 3 inches in diameter ; with a smaller cutter (1^ inch in diameter) cut out the middle of each circlet or cake, letting the ring remain intact. Fry the rings in butter of a pretty bright yellow colour. Butter a dish well, lay the rings in, and pour over them a little sour cream, enough to moisten them well, and put, very carefully, a raw egg into each ring. Dredge with a little salt, put a very little cream on the top of each egg. and bake. Do not let the whites get brown ; cover them lightly with paper. When set, the yolks being soft, they are ready to serve. Send to tabie with a garnish- ing of parsley or watercresses. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. each. Sufficient.—Allow 2 for each person Seasonable at any time,