698 General Directions for Carving Game. ready. Cut a slice of ham into small pieces, and put them, with the carrots sliced, the shalots, mushrooms, herbs, cloves and pepper, into a stewpan; fry them lightly in a little butter, pour in the stock, add the bones and trimming from the partridges, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Strain the gravy, let it cool, and skim off every particle of fat; put it to the legs, wings and breasts, add a glass of sherry or Madeira and a small lump of sugar; let all gradually warm through- by the side of the fire, and when on the point of boiling, serve, and garnish the dish with croutons. The remains of roast partridge answer very well dressed in this way, although not so good as when the birds are in the first instance only half-roasted. This recipe is equally suitable for pheasants, moor- game, &c., but care must be taken always to skin the joints. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Average Cost, 3s. to 4s. 6d. a pair. Sufficient.—2 or 3 partridges for an entree. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. Note.—“Partridge or Pheasant Cream," both very delicate entrees, are made in the same manner as “ Chicken Cream.’’ 1432.—P H E AS ANT CUTLETS. (Fr.— Filets de Faisah au Jus.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 pheasants, egg and bread-crumbs, cayenne and salt to taste, brown gravy. Mode.—Procure 3 young pheasants that have been hung a few days ; pluck, draw and wipe them inside; cut them into joints; remove the bones from the best of these; and the backbones, trimmings, &c., put into a stewpan, with a little stock, herbs, vegetables, seasoning, &c., to make the gravy. Flatten and trim the cutlets of a good shape, egg-and bread-crumb them, broil them over a clear fire, pile them high in the dish, and pour under them the gravy made from the bones, which should be strained, flavoured and thickened. One of the small bones should be stuck on the point of each cutlet. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 2 entrees. Seasonable from the 1st of October to the beginning of February. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING GAME. 1433.—BLACKCOCK. Skilful carving of game undoubtedly adds to the pleasure of the guests at the dinner-table; for game seems pre-eminently to be composed of such delicate limbs and tender flesh that an inapt practitioner appears to