Seasonable at any time. Time.—f to i hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. GINGERBREAD. ii22 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. Seasonable at any time. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, f lb. of butter, f lb. of loaf sugar, the rind Mode.— Put the flour into a basin, with the sugar, ginger and allspice; mix these together ; warm the butter, and add it, with the treacle, to the other ingredients. Stir well; make the milk just warm, dissolve the carbonate of soda in it, and mix the whole into a nice smooth dough with the eggs, which should be pre- viously well whisked ; pour the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake it from three-quarters to i hour, or longer should the gingerbread be very thick. Just before it is done, brush the top ovei with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little milk, and put it back in the oven to finish baking. 2487.—SUNDERLAND GINGERBREAD NUTS. (An Excellent Recipe.) Ingredients.—if lb. of treacle, 1 lb. of moist sugar, I lb. of butter, 2! lb. of flour, if oz. of ground ginger, if oz. of allspice, if oz. of coriander seeds. Mode.—Let the allspice, coriander seeds, and ginger be freshly ground; put them into a basin, with the flour and sugar, and mix these ingredients well together; warm the treacle and butter together; then with a spoon work it into the flour, &c., until the whole forms a nice smooth paste. Drop the mixture from the spoon on to a piece of buttered paper, and bake in rather a slow oven for 20 minutes to half an hour. A little candied lemon-peel mixed with the above is an improvement; and a great authority in culinary matters suggests the addition of a little cayenne pepper in gingerbread. Whether it be advisable to use this latter ingredient or not, we leave our readers to decide. Time.—20 minutes to f hour. Average Cost, is. to is 4d. per lb. 2488.-WHITE GINGERBREAD. of 1 lemon, 1 oz. of ground ginger, 1 nutmeg grated, f teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 1 gill of milk. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar, which should be finely pounded and sifted, and the minced lemon-rind, ginger, and nutmeg. Mix these well together; make the milk just warm, stir in the soda, and