1234 Recipes for Invalid Cookery. if it is necessary to warm it up. When the tea is warm it is ready to serve. Time.—£ to f hour. Average Cost, 7d. per pint. Sufficient.—Allow 1 lb. of meat for a pint of good beef-tea. Miss Nightingale says one of the most common errors among nurses, with respect to sick diet, is the belief that beef-tea is the most nutrititive of all articles. She says, "Just try and boil down a lb. of beef into beef-tea; evaporate your beef-tea, and see what is left of your beef; you will find that there is barely a teaspoonful of solid nourishment to half a pint of water in beef-tea. Nevertheless, there is a certain reparative quality in it—we do not know what—as there is in tea; but it may be safely given in almost any inflammatory disease, and is as little to be depended upon with the healthy or convalescent, where much nourishment is required." 2778. —B EEF-TEA. (Dr. Pavy's Recipe.) Mode.—Mince finely 1 lb. of lean beef, and pour upon it, in a preserve jar, or other suitable vessel, 1 pint of cold water. Stir, and allow the two to stand for about an hour, that the goodness of the meat may be dissolved out. Next, stand the preserve jar or other vessel in a saucepan of water, and place the saucepan over the fire or a gas stove, and allow the water in it to boil gently for an hour. Remove the jar, and pour its contents on to a strainer. The beef-tea which runs through contains a quantity of fine sediment which is to be drunk with the liquid, after being flavoured with salt at discretion. The jar or other vessel in which the beef-tea is made may be introduced into an ordinary oven for an hour, instead of being surrounded by the water in the saucepan. Beef-tea thus prepared represents a highly nutritive and restorative liquid, with an agreeable, rich, meaty flavour. It is a common practice, however, amongst cooks to make it by putting it into a saucepan, and subjecting it to prolonged boiling or simmering over the fire ; but the product then yielded constitutes in reality a soup or broth instead of a tea. The pro- longed boiling leads to the extraction of gelatine, and the liquid gelatinises on cooling (which is not the case when prepared as above directed), but, at the same time, the albuminous matter becomes condensed and agglomerated in such a manner as to subsequently form a part of the solid rejected residue. The liquid also loses in flavour and invigorating power. All that is wanted is that the cold infusion should be heated to about 170° Fahr. This just suffices to coagulate the albumen and colouring matter, and thus deprive the product of its character of rawness. 2779. —B EEF-TEA. (Baron Liebig's Method.) Mode.—Mince very finely £ lb. of lean beef, put it in a glass or cup (not in metal) and pour on it f pint of cold water, 4 drops of muriatic acid, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Let it stand for an hour, then strain it