Roast Leg of Pork. 537 Time,—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. for chops. Sufficient.—Allow 6 cutlets for 4 persons. Seasonable from October to March. Note.—The remains of roast loin of pork may be dressed in the same manner. 1179.—PORK CHEESE. (Fr.—Fromage de Cochon.) (An excellent Breakfast Dish.) ■ Ingredients.—2 lbs. of cold roast pork, pepper and salt to taste, 1 dessertspoonful of minced parsley, 4 leaves of sage, a very small bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, a little nutmeg, £ tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel ; good strong gravy, sufficient to fill the mould. Mode.—Cut, but do not chop, the pork into fine pieces, and allow a quarter of a pound of fat to each pound of lean. Season with pepper and salt; pound well the spices, and chop finely the parsley, sage, herbs, and lemon-peel, and mix the whole nicely together. Put it into a mould, fill up with good, strong, well-flavoured gravy, aud bake rather more than one hour. When cold, turn it out of the mould. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Seasonable from October to March. 1180.-ROAST LEG OF PORK. (Fr.—Gigot de Pore.) Ingredients.—Leg of pork, a little oil, stuffing of sage and onions. Mode.—Choose a small leg of pork, and score the skin across in narrow strips, about a quarter of an inch apart. Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it with a sage-and-onion stuffing, made by Recipe No. 638. Brush the joint over with a little salad- oil (this makes the crackling crisper, and a better colour) and put it down to a bright, clear fire, not too near, as that would cause the skin to blister. Baste it well, and serve with a little gravy made in the dripping- pan, and do not omit to send to table with it a tureen of well-made apple- sauce. Time.—A leg of pork weighing 8 lbs., about 3 hours. Average Cost, gd. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from October to March, English Mode of Hunting, and Indian Pig-stieking.^Tke hunting 6, the wild b<;af has been in all times, and in all countries, a pastime of ths highest interest and esciternsnt, and from the ROAST LEG OF PORK.