Short Crust. 803 France, made sugar scarce, and consequently dear, the Government caused inquiries to be instituted as to the possibility of finding a substitute for it. Accordingly, it was ascertained that sugar exists in the whole vegetable kingdom ; that it is to be found in the grape, chestnut, potato, but that, far above all, the beet contains it in a large proportion. Thus the beet became an object of the most careful culture ; and many experiments went to prove that in this respect the old world was independent of the new. Many manufactories came into existence in all parts of France, and the making of sugar became naturalised in that country. 1681.-COMMON SHORT CRUST. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 2 oz. of sifted sugar, 3 oz. of butter, about pint of boiling milk. Mode.—Crumble the butter into the flour as finely as possible, add the sugar, and work the whole up to a smooth paste with the boiling milk. Roll it out thin, and bake in a moderate oven. Average Cost, 4d. per lb. Qualities of Sugar.—Sugars obtained from various plants are, in fact, of the same nature, and have no intrinsic difference when they have become equally purified by the same processes. Taste, crystallisation, colour, weight,' are absolutely identical; and the most acute observer cannot distinguish the one from the other. 1682.—BUTTER CRUST. (For Boiled Puddings.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 6 oz. of butter, £ pint of water. Mode.—With a knife work the flour to a smooth paste with | pint of water; roll the crust out rather thin; place the butter over it in small pieces, dredge lightly over it some flour, and fold the paste over ; repeat the rolling once more, and the crust will be ready for use. It may be enriched by adding another 2 ozs. of butter, but for ordinary purposes the above quantity will be found quite sufficient. Average Cost, 5d. per lb. 1683.—DRIPPING CRUST. (For Kitchen Puddings, Pies, &c.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 6 oz. of clarified beef drip- ping, £ pint of water. Mode.—After having clarified the dripping by either of the recipes, No. 886 or 887, weigh it, and to every lb. of flour allow the above pro- portion of dripping. With a knife work the flour into a smooth paste with the water, rolling it out three times, each time placing on the crust two ounces of the dripping, broken into small pieces. If this paste is lightly made, if good dripping is used, and not too much of it, it will be found good; and by the addition of two tablespoonfuls of fine moist sugar, it may be converted into a common short crust for fruit pies. Average Cost, 4d. per lb. Water—What the Ancients Thought of it.—All the na-tions of antiquity possessed great vene- ration for water: thus the Egyptians offered prayers and homage to water, and the Nile