To Choose Poultry. 579 by reason of the food that the birds eat, which at all times greatly changes the quality of the flesh, even in birds of the same breed. Barndoor fowls are less fat, but far superior in flavour to the fowls fed in close crops for the town market, and the eggs of fowls fed on scraps and house refuse are generally strong and disagreeable. Wild ducks and other aquatic birds are often rank and fishy flavoured. The pigeon fattens and wastes in the course of a few hours. The pronounced flavour of the grouse is said to be due to the heather shoots on which it feeds. 1265.—To Choose Poultry.—All this must be remembered by the house- wife who is about to choose poultry. She must ascertain three things respecting her bird:— Whether it is—i, Young; 2, In good condition ; 3, Fresh. Some authorities say that an old fowl is never permissible for any purpose, and that it only gives a rank, feathery flavour to whatever it is cooked in or with. Mr. Mattieu Williams, from whose book we have quoted on several occasions, seems to suggest that the fault of an old fowl is that it has too strong a flavour, which chiefly calls for dilution. With this view he recommends that an old hen should be slowly stewed according to the old country rule of an hour for every year of age, and then roasted in the ordinary manner. A soup and a stew is thus provided from one meat. Another old country fashion is to pluck the feathers off as soon as the bird is dead, and to plunge it into weak vinegar and water, the vinegar acting to soften the fibre. Of course any old meat must be slowly and long cooked, and a bird is no exception to the rule. Properly cooked, even an old fowl will be a welcome addition to the dietary in most middle-class houses, if it be grown on the premises ; but it will certainly be unwelcome if it has been purchased in mistake for, and at the same price as, a young one. A young fowl has large soft feet and neck. The signs of an old fowl are its stiff, horny-look- ing feet, long spurs, dark-coloured and hairy thighs, stiff beak and bones. The art of the poulterer is exercised to conceal these defects, and he is often very successful. The breasts of ducks and geese are slightly gummed and dusted with down, to give them the downy appearance indicative of youth. The spur of the cock is scraped and cut down to the size of a chicken’s spur. A large piece of “ leaf," purporting to be the inside fat of the fowl under inspection, is skewered over its breast, but not seldom it is a piece of thin veal or beef fat, only put to deceive the unwary. The breast bone is broken in order to make the bird appear round breasted and plump. In choosing all birds the same rules might be repeated. The bones of all young things are soft and gelatinous, and they always harden with age. The beak, pinion, and breast bone are the bones easiest to try. If a fowl is known to be, or supposed to be, old, it is better to boil than to roast it; in fact, for boiling many careful housewives would choose a large fowl rather than a small one at the same price. There being no distinct season for fowls, they can be had of all ages all the year round, and there is no particular day at which a fowl from young becomes old, although there is a decided difference between an old hen that has seen several summers and a fowl that is only just past its best time. For a fowl the plumage is no guide, because, in towns at any rate, they are almost always sold plucked ; but for birds sold in their feathers it is useful to re- member that young birds have half-developed plumage and short pen feathers and that underneath the wing is downy. A pigeon can easily be selected by this test. Fowls can be had all the year round, but they are dearest from Christmas to April or May, and therefore at this time the old ones are most likely to be passed off on unwary customers. It is not so easy to judge of condition. To be fat and firm-fleshed is a sign of health in all animals, but for no purpose is it advantageous to buy excessively fat