Recipes for Soups. 154 Sufficient for 8 persons. 309.—COCK-A-LEEKIE, Ingredients.—A capon or large fowl (sometimes an old cock, from which the recipe takes its name) is used, which should be trussed as for boiling; 2 or 3 bunches of fine leeks, 5 quarts of stock, No. 273; pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Well wash the leeks (and, if old, scald them in boiling water for a few minutes), taking off the roots and part of the heads, and cut them into lengths of about an inch. Put the fowl into the stock, with, at first, one half the leeks, and allow it to simmer gently. In half an hour add the remaining leeks, and then it may simmer for 3 or 4 hours longer. It should be carefully skimmed, and can be seasoned to taste. In serving, take out the fowl, and carve it neatly, placing the pieces in a tureen, and pouring over them the soup, which should be very thick of leeks. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, is. 8d. per quart; or, with stock No. 274, is. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—Without the fowl, the above, which would then be merely called Leek Soup, is very good, and also economical. Cock-a-leekie was largely consumed at the Burns' Centenary Festival at the Crystal Palace, Sydenham, 1859. The Leek —As in the case of the cucumber, this vegetable was bewailed by the Israelites in their journey through the desert. It is one of the alliaceous tribe, which consists of the onion, garlic, chive, shallot and leek. These, as articles of food, are perhaps more widely diffused over the face of the earth than any other genus of edible plants. The leek is the badge of the Welsh, and tradition ascribes to St. David its introduction to that part of Britain. The origin of the wearing of the leek on St. David's day, among that people, is thus given in “Beeton’s Dictionary of Universal Information:”—“It probably originated from the custom of Cymortha, or the friendly aid, practised among farmers. In some districts of South Wales, all the neighbours of a small farmer were wont to appoint a day when they attended to plough his land, and the iiKe; and at such time it was the custom for each to bring his portion of leeks with him tor maKing the broth or soup.” (See St. David.) Others derive the origin of the custom from the battle of Cressy. The plant, when grown in Wales or Scotland, is sharper than it is in England, and its flavour is preferred by many to that of the onion in broth. It is very wholesome, and, to prevent its tainting the breath, should be well boiled. 310.—MACARONI SOUP. (Fr.— Potage Macaroni.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of macaroni, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, salt to taste, 2 quarts of clear stock, No. 273 Mode.—Throw the macaroni and butter into boiling water, with a pinch of salt, and boil for half an hour. When it is tender, drain and cut into thin rings or lengths, and drop it into the boiling stock for 15 minutes, and serve grated Parmesan cheese with it. It must be boiled fast or the macaroni wlli be tough. Time.—$ hour. Average Cost, 15. per quart. Seasonable all the year.