102 Introduction to Cookery. really bad. On him rests the responsibility of the cooking generally, whilst a speciality of his department is to prepare the rich soups, entrees, confectionery, and such dishes as enter into the more refined and complicated portions of his art, and such as are not usually understood by ordinary professors. He, there- fore, holds a high position in a household, being inferior in rank, as already shown only to the house-steward, the valet and the butler. In the luxurious ages of Grecian antiquity, Sicilian cooks were the most esteemed, and re- ceived high rewards for their services. Among them, one called Trimalcio was such an adept in hit art, that he could impart to common fish both the form and flavour of the most esteemed of the piscatory tribes. A chief cook in the palmy days of Roman voluptuousness had about j£8oo a year, and Antony rewarded the one that cooked the supper which pleased Cleopatra, with the present of a city. With the tall of the Empire, the culinary art sank into less consideration. In the middle ages, cooks laboured to acquire a reputation for their sauces, which they composed of strange combinations, for the sake cf novelty, as well as singularity. “REASONS WHY ” FOR CHOOSING AND COOKING FOOD. 207. Cookery and the Artificial Preparation of Food can have but one ultimate object, i.e., to assist in the wonderful series of changes known as digestion and assimilation. But the object of a journey may be reached by many different, and sometimes is sought on apparently divergent, roads. So it is here. Some even argue that the roads once diverging never become parallel. They declare that the art of cookery, as now understood, only results in the persistent overtaxing of the digestive organs, instead of a lightening of their labours. But let us realise what it would mean to go back to pre-cooking days, when our ances- tors not only devoured their relatives, but devoured them raw ; or to place our- selves in some savage tribe where cookery is in its infancy; or even return to the coarse abundance of our nearer forefathers ; and I think all will agree that the cook is more friend than foe. 208. Science of Cookery.—Within the last few years cookery has made large strides in a totally new direction. The cook has turned philosopher, and loves—if not the process of reasoning—at least, to be told other people’s " reasons why ” for the operations of the kitchen. Until lately there was no such thing as a science of cookery. Chemistry is a recent science, and is now in an active state of growth ; to our store of physiological knowledge every day is adding. The science of food and cookery cannot advance a step but by the help of one cf these. The art of cookery has little enough to do with either, and flourished long before chemistry and physiology in their modern acceptation were known. But we cannot accept the common assertion that because cookery long flourished alone it should be left alone now, for the same assertion might be made respecting the application of modern science to any department of human activity. People lived and died before the law of gravitation, or elementary mathemati- cal truths, or the application of steam to machinery were discovered, yet these discoveries have been applied to practical industries with immense benefit to man- kind. Science applied to agriculture has enabled us to support a larger popula- tion in greater comfort ; science applied to food and cookery will enable us to do this and more. We can confidently look forward to a time when in the chemist’s laboratory the transformation of nature's laboratory shall be imitated for the feeding of our starving millions. That goal is a very long way off, and we trace out only the first steps of the road towards it. But as we said at the outset, good cookery must always mean the successful doing or easing in the kitchen of Nature’s work. 209. Everyday Science.—It is interesting to the student of human progress to watch for scientific discoveries as they gradually creep from the laboratory to the treatise, from the treatise to the lecture-room, thence to the