Chinese Tea. 1185 contains is that of the milk and sugar mixed with it, and no more. Theine acts directly on the nervous system, and it is for the sake of this action that tea is habitually consumed. 2642. Chinese Tea.—The various names by which Chinese teas are sold in the British market are corruptions of Chinese words. There are about a dozen different kinds; but the principal are Bohea, Congou and Souchong, and signify respectively, inferior, middling and superior. Teas are often perfumed and flavoured with the leaves of different kinds of plants grown on purpose. Different tea-farms in China produce teas of various qualities, raised by skilful cultivation on various soils. Chinese tea has frequently been adulterated in this country by the admix- ture of the dried leaves of certain plants. The leaves of the sloe, white thorn, ash, elder, and some others, have been employed for this purpose ; such as the leaves of the speedwell, wild germander, black currant, syringa, purple-spiked willow-herb, sweetbrier and cherry tree. Some of these are harmless ; others are to a certain degree poisonous, as, for example, are the leaves of all the varieties of the plum and cherry tribe, to which the sloe belongs. Adulteration by means of these leaves is by no means a new species of fraud ; and several Acts of Parliament, from the time of George II., have been passed, specifying severe penalties against those guilty of the offence, which, notwithstanding numerous convictions, continues to the present time. 2643. In the purchase of tea, that should be chosen which possesses an agreeable odour and is as whole as possible, in order that the leaf may be easily examined. The greatest care should be taken that it has not been exposed to the air, which destroys its flavour. Good broken leaf tea may sometimes be bought advantageously. 2644. Coffee.—It would be impossible, in the space at our command, to enumerate the various modes adopted in different countries for “ making coffee; ” that is, the phrase commonly understood to mean the complete preparation of this delicious beverage for drinking. For performing this operation, such recipes or methods as we have found most practical will be inserted in their proper place ; but the follow- ing facts connected with coffee will be found highly interesting. 2645. The Introduction of coffee into this country is com- paratively of recent date. We are assured by Bruce that the coffee- tree is a native of Abyssinia, and it is said to have been cultivated in that country from time immemorial. It appears that coffee was first introduced into England by Daniel Edwards, a Turkey merchant, whose servant, Pasqua, a Greek, under- stood the manner of roasting it. This servant, under the patronage of Edwards, established the first coffee-house in London, in George Yard, Lombard Street. Coffee was then sold at four or five guineas a pound, and a duty was soon afterwards laid upon it of four?