Roast Larks. 623 nicely. Serve with a little gravy in the dish, and a tureen of the same, and one of well-made bread-sauce. Time.—Guinea-fowl, larded, hour; plainly roasted, about 1 hour. Average Cost, 4s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable in spring and summer. Note.—The breast, if larded, should be covered with a piece of paper, which remove about 10 minutes before serving. The Guinea-Fowl—This bird takes its name from Guinea, in Africa, where it is found wild, and in great abundance. It is gregarious in its habits, associating in flocks of two or three hundred, delighting in marshy grounds, and at night perching upon trees, or on high situations. Its size is about the same as that of a common hen, but it stands higher on its legs. Though domesti- cated, it retains much of its wild nature, and is apt to wander. The hens lay abundantly, and the eggs are excellent. In their flesh, however, they are not so white as the common fowl, but more inclined to the colour of the pheasant, for which it frequently makes a good substitute at table. The flesh is both savoury and easy of digestion, and is in season when game is out of season. 1316.—ROAST LARKS. (Ft.— Mauviettes Roties.) Ingredients.—Larks, egg and bread-crumbs, fresh butter. Mode.—These birds are by many persons esteemed a great delicacy, and may be either roasted or broiled. Pick, gut and clean them ; when they are trussed, brush them over with the yolk of an egg; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and roast them before a quick fire ; baste them continually with fresh butter, and keep sprinkling with the bread-crumbs until the birds are well covered. Dish them on bread-crumbs fried in clarified butter, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. Broiled larks are also very excellent ; they should be cooked over a clear fire, and would take about 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour. Time.—£ hour to roast; xo minutes to broil. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. per dozen. Seasonable.—In full season in November. Note.—Larks may also be plainly roasted, without covering them with egg and bread-crumbs; they should be dished on fried crumbs. GUINEA-FOWLS. 1317.—GRILLED PIGEONS. (Pigeons Grilles.) Ingredients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Take care that the pigeons are quite fresh, and carefully pluck, draw, and wash them; split the backs, rub the birds over with butter, season them with pepper and salt, rub a little butter over the gridiron, and grill them over a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour or 20 minutes.