1301 Turbot all ’ Italiana. enough, without, however, letting it come to a boil. Pour over slices of French roll in a tureen. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, is. 4d. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year rouna. 2961.—LOMBARD SOUP. (Zuppa Lombarda.) Ingredients.—I lb. of 'forcemeat composed of equal quantities of fowls’ liver, mushrooms, cockscombs, suet and lamb’s sweetbreads,! a few truffles and a little stock; 2 tablespoonfuls of sauce au bechamel, 4 spoonfuls of puree of the greenest peas, 2 spoonfuls of prawn butter, 1 egg, 2 quarts of stock, | a glass of Madeira. Mode.—Divide the forcemeat, which must be very fine, into three por- tions ; add the bechamel to the first, the puree of peas to the second, and the prawn butter to the third, making thus three distinct colours, white, green and red. Take a teaspoonful at a time, and make into little balls in a buttered dish. Throw them into boiling stock, and let them boil 4 minutes. Drain and place in a tureen, with 2 dozen tails of prawns, 2 spoonfuls of very green heads of asparagus, and 2 of green peas—both cooked—a few dice of bread fried in prawn butter, and a little lamb’s sweetbreads cooked and cut small. Pour the boiling stock over these, with the addition of the Madeira, and serve. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, is. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from May to September. 2962.—TURBOT ALL’ ITALIANA. Ingredients.—1 largish turbot, 1 trout, 12 button mushrooms, 2 carp roes, a few truffles and prawns, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cleanse and prepare the turbot as usual, and simmer it in a mirepoix with good white wine for two hours. Drain and put on a dish, with a garnish of fried pieces of trout, firied roes of carp and glazed mushrooms placed alternately. Stick into the turbot several skewers decorated with truffles, roes and prawns, and serve with a sauce d la princesse, made as follows To 1 pint of sauce allemande, add 1 TURBOT ALL’ ITALIANA. tablesDOonful of white stock, 2 table-