446 Recipes for Cooking Veal. 991—CALF’S LIVER WITH SWEET HERBS AND SHARP SAUCE. (Fr.—Foie de Veau aux Fines Herbes et a la Sauce Piquante.) Ingredients.— A calf’s liver, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, in- cluding parsley; when liked, 2 minced chalots; 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, pepper and salt to taste, \ pint of water. Mode.— Procure a calfs liver as white as possible, and cut it into slices of a good and equal shape. Dip them in flour, and fry them of a good light gold colour in a little butter. When they are done, put them on a dish, which keep hot before the fire. Mince the herbs very fine, put them in the frying-pan with a little more butter; add the remaining in- gredients, simmer gently until the herbs are done, and pour over the liver. Time.— According to the thickness of the slices, from 5 to 10 minutes. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 992.—CALF’S LIVER AND BACON. Fy — (Foie de Veau au Lard.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 lbs. of liver, bacon, pepper and salt to taste, a small piece of butter, flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, \ pint of water. Mode.—Cut the liver in thin slices, and cut as many slices of bacon as there are of liver ; fry the bacon first, and put that on a hot dish before the fire. Fry the liver in the fat which comes from the bacon, after seasoning it with pepper and salt, and dredging over it a very little flour. Turn the liver occasionally, to prevent its burning, and, when done, lay it round the dish, with a piece of bacon between each. Pour away the bacon fat, put in a small piece of butter, dredge in a little flour, add the lemon-juice and water, give one boil, and pour it in the middle of the dish. It may be garnished with slices of cut lemon or forcemeat balls. Time.—According to the thickness of the slices, from 5 to 10 minutes. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 993.—LIVER SAUSAGES. (Fy.—Saucisses de Foie de Veau.) Ingredients. — | lb. of fat bacon, 1 lb.of calfs liver, £lb.of bread-crumhc, 3 eggs, 1 bay leaf, i teaspoonful of thyme. A teasnoonful of grated lemon-