Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. 932 1994. -T H E HIDDEN MOUNTAIN. (Fr.—Creme en Surprise.) (A Pretty Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, a few slices of citron, sugar to taste, pint of cream, a layer of any kind of jam. Mode.—Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately; then mix them and beat well again, adding a few thin slices of citron, the cream, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten it nicely. When the mixture is well beaten, put it into a buttered pan, and fry the same as a pancake ; but it should be three times the thickness of an ordinary pancake. Cover it with jam, and garnish with slices of citron and holly-leaves. This dish is served cold. Time.—About 10 minutes to fry the mixture. Average Cost, with the jam, is. 4d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1995. —JAUNEMANGE. (Fr.—Jaune Manger.) Ingredients.—I oz. of gelatine, 1 pint of water, % pint of white wine, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon, sugar to taste, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.—Put the gelatine, water and lemon-rind into a saucepan, simmer gently until the former is dissolved ; then add the strained lemon- juice, the wine, and sufficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Simmer for 3 minutes, strain the mixture into a jug, and add the yolks of the eggs, which should be well beaten ; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water; keep stirring the mixture one way until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; then take it off the fire, and keep stirring until nearly cold. Pour it into a mould, omitting the sediment at the bottom of the jug, and let it remain until quite firm. Time.—£ hour for the gelatine and water; about 10 minutes to stir the mixture in the jug. Average Cost, with the best gelatine, is. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. 1996.-JELLY MOULDED WITH FRESH FRUIT. (Fr.—Macedoine de Fruits.) Ingredients.—Rather more than 1+ pint of jelly, a few nice straw- berries, or red or white currants, or raspberries, or any fresh fruit that may be in season. Mode.— Have ready the above proportion of jelly, which must be very clear and rather sweet, the raw fruit requiring an additional quantity of