1227 Diet as a Cure. work quietly. Again, a little wise starvation is nature’s cure, and the best, for many complaints. 2761. Diet as a Cure.—There are not a few diseases where the only hope of cure or alleviation lies in rigid abstention from some sorts of food. Diet can often cure where drugs are useless or worse. Diet is always harmless where drugs are usually dangerous. Every year diet plays a larger part in the skilled treat- ment of disease. And yet we often see unskilled women, who would hesitate before changing their children’s diet from roast meat and milk puddings, more than before pouring down their throats all manner of powerful medicines. For the majority of common ailments, some slight change of diet is by far the best remedy. 2762. Food or Physic ?—Many well-known remedies are thought to be physic becarse they are prescribed by the doctor and sold by the chemist, but they are, in reality, foods. The best example is cod-liver oil, the most digestible of all fats, given often to consumptive and other persons, who either cannot take other fats, who do not like any fat, and will not force themselves to swallow fat food as they do to take fat physic. Cream, or any other fat, if it is digested, answers the same purpose as oil. Parrish's Chemical Food is another food-physic. 2763. Certain rules apply to all sick-room feeding.—Give little food and often. It is a mistake to persuade a patient to swallow large quantities at once. What is eaten willingly and with relish does more good than double the amount swallowed with disgust. At the same time it must be remembered that when people are very ill they will often refuse to swallow anything, though they are actually sinking for want of food. Let the food come at stated times, and punctually. A very weak patient faints and flags if the hour is stretched to an hour and a quarter. A convalescent looks forward to meals as the great events of the day, and frets and worries if they do not come to time. As a rule, a patient should not be awakened to be fed, though it may sometimes be necessary to do so. Amateur nurses often forget to feed in the small hours of the morning, when the patient’s strength is always at the lowest ebb. If obliged to wait a long time the patient loses the desire to eat, and often turns against the food when brought to him or her. When there is no appetite, give such food as affords the most nourishment for the least work, either to the digestive organs or to teeth. If the patient is very weak the exertion of eating, even without mastication, is already very severe. Put the greatest amount of nourishment into the smallest space, and let the food be already divided. Let such work of digestion as there must be fall on the part of the patient that is best able to bear it, as to which the doctor should be the best judge. Only just so much as the patient is likely to eat should be taken into a sick- room, and what remains should be at once removed. Never keep any food standing by the bedside. Never leave food about a sick-room ; if the patient cannot eat it when brought to him, take it away and bring it to him in an hour or two’s time. Miss Nightingale says: “To leave the patient’s untasted food by his side from meal to meal, in hopes that he will eat it in the interval, is simply to prevent him from taking food at all. I have known patients literally incapacitated from taking any one article of food after another by this piece of ignorance. Let the food come at the right time, and be taken away, eaten or uneaten, at the right time; but never let a patient have 1 something always standing ’ by him, if you don’t wish to disgust him with everything.’’ In a case of infectious fever, all remains of food should at once be burnt, and on no account eaten by another person. The nurse must not eat in the sick-room.