Ii6 Introduction to Cookery. This is an operation requiring consid- erable experience. En Couronne.—Said of chops, cut- lets, &c., when they are arranged round a central mass of vegetables, as mashed potatoes or rice, which they encompass after the manner of a garland or wreath. Entrees.— The made dishes that follow the fish course. Entremets.—Small side or corner dishes, served with the second course. Escalopes.—Collops ; small, round, thin pieces of tender meat or of fish, often beaten with the handle of a strong knife to make them tender. Feu i I letage.—Puff-paste. FI amber.—To singe fowl or game, after they have been picked. Foncer.—To put in the bottom of a saucepan slices of ham, veal or thin broad slices of bacon. Fricassee. — Chickens, &c., cut in pieces, in a white sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, &c., as accessories. Galantine.—Fish, game, meat, &c., garnished with aspic jelly, served cold. Galette.—A broad thin cake. Gateau.—A cake,literally; but used sometimes to denote a pudding, aud a kind of tart. Gauffres.—A light spongy sort of biscuit or wafer. GI ace r.—To glaze, or spread upon hot meats, or larded fowl, a thick and rich sauce or gravy, called glaze. This is laid on with a feather or brush; in confectionery the term means to ice fruits and pastry with sugar, which glistens on hardening. Glaze.—Stock boiled down to the thickness of jelly, and employed to im- prove the look of braised dishes. Gratin.—Said of fish, meat, cheese, &c., covered with grated bread, browned. Hors d’ceuvres.—Small dishes, or assiettes volantes of sardines, anchovies, and other relishes of this kind, served to the guests during the first course. (See Assiettes volantes.) Liaisons.—Literally a binding to- gether, said of thickening in soups and sauces. Lit.—A bed or layer; articles in thin slices are placed in layers, other arti- cles, or seasoning, being laid between them. Macedoine. — Fruit or vegetables mixed for compote, garnish, &c. Maigre. — Broth, soup, or gravy, made without meat. Matelote.— A rich fish-stew, made with wine or cider. Mayonnaise.—Cold sauce, or salad dressing, made of oil, eggs, &c. Menu.—The bill of fare. Meringue.—A kind of icing, made of whites of eggs and sugar, well beaten. Me repo is.—Essence of meat and vegetables. Miroton.—Larger slices of meat than collops ; such as slices of beef for a vin- aigrette, or ragout or stew of onions. Mouiller.—Literally to wet: to add water, broth, or other liquid, during the cooking. Nougat.—Almond sweetmeat. Paner.—To cover over, with very fine crumbs of bread, meat, or any other articles to be cooked on the gridiron, in the oven, or frying-pan. Patd.—A small pie. Pigce de Resistance.—The princi- pal dish of the dinner. Piquer.—To lard with strips of fat bacon, poultry, game, meats, &c. This should always be done according to the vein of the meat, so that in carving you slice the bacon across as well as the meat. Poelee.—Stock used instead of water for boiling turkeys, sweetbreads, fowls, and vegetables, to render them less in- sipid. This is rather an expensive preparation. Potage.—Soup. Puree.—Vegetables,or meat reduced to a very smooth pulp, which is afterwards mixed with enough liquid to make it of the consistency of very thick soup. Ragout.—Stew or hash. Remoulade.—Salad dressing. Rissoles.—Light puff-paste, cut into various forms and filled with fish, meats or sweets, and fried. Roux.— Brown and white; French thickening of fried or burnt flour. Salmi,—Ragout of game previously roasted.