Inferior Meat. 373 to see meat in the butchers’ shops lying in a pool of blood or water on the block or board ; this is a sure sign of inferiority. VII. “ When dried at a temperature of 212° or thereabouts, it should not lose more than 70 to 74 per cent, of its weight, whereas bad meat will often lose as much as 80 per cent." That is to say, in all meat there is nearly three-quarters of the total weight of water. We shall recur to this point later. In bad meat four-fifths may be water. 845. Inferior Meat.—Meat may be quite wholesome and yet may be of inferior quality. Ordinary purchasers do not understand this in theory, though they are accustomed to it in practice. An ox that had worked at the plough would be hard and somewhat strong-flavoured; but suitably cooked it would be unobjectionable from a health point of view. Cow-beef is habitually sold in the markets, and the poor gladly buy it at a low price. Even in the best quarters of the town the best meat hangs side by side with the second quality. Not enough comes to town of the best short-horned beef, or of Southdown mutton, to supply one tenth of the customers, and in all market-lists the prices at per stone vary according to the breed and the quality. It answers the grazier’s purpose to take a lower price per stone for an animal that arrives quickly at maturity, and that grows to the greatest weight on a given amount of food. As a rule, the larger the animal the coarser the flesh. This is markedly true of different varieties of the same species. In providing for a large number of persons where quantity and cheapness are of more importance than first-rate quality, joints of large full-flavoured beef and mutton are by far the most advantageous to buy, and for strong soups, stews with vegetables, and such dishes there is no reason for choosing the most delicate meat. 846. Fat Meat.— As regards fat, that can be bought more cheaply than on a joint of meat, and many persons object to eat much fat. But it is alvjpys risky to buy any part of an unusually lean animal, in case its condition should be due to. disease. It is better to buy a lean joint off a fat beast, or to cut off the fat before cooking the meat. Again, if economy is an object, it is well to buy a cheap part of a first-rate animal rather than a, prime joint off an inferior beast. Gener- ally speaking, the fore quarter costs less than the hind ; and in a bullock it is easy to get a solid lump of meat from the fore-quarter with little or no bone; of course if a joint is cheap because it is bony there is no economy in buying it. FAX HEREFORD STEER.