694 Recipes for Cooking Game. 1423.—HASHED WILD DUCK. (Fr.—Canards Sauvages en Salmis.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast wild duck, 1 pint of good brown gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 1 glass of claret, salt, cayenne and mixed spices to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon or Seville orange-juice. Mode.—Cut the remains of the duck into neat joints, put them into a stewpan, with all the above ingredients ; let them get gradually hot by the side of the fire, and occasionally stir the contents ; when on the point of boiling, serve and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—About £ hour. Seasonable from November to February. 1424—RAGOUT OF WILD DUCK. (Fr.—Canards Sauvages en Vin Rouge.) Ingredients.—2 wild ducks, 4 shalots, 1 pint of stock, No. 273, 1 glass of port, 1 oz. of butter, a little flour, the juice of | lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Ducks that have been dressed and left from the preceding day will answer for this dish. Cut them into joints, reserve the legs, wings and breasts until wanted ; put the trimmings into a stewpan with the shalots and stock, and let them simmer for about half an hour, and strain the gravy. Put the butter into a stewpan; when melted, dredge in a little flour, and pour in the gravy made from the bones; give it one boil, and strain it again ; add the wine, lemon-juice and cayenne ; lay in the pieces of duck, and let the whole gradually warm through, but do not allow it to boil, or the duck will be hard. The gravy should not be too thick, and should be very highly seasoned. The squeeze of a Seville orange is a great improvement to this dish. Time.—About £ hour to make the gravy; £ hour for the duck gradually to warm through. Seasonable from November to February. 1425.—RISSOLETTES OR CROQUETTES OF HARE. (Fr.—Croquettes de Lievre.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—i lb. of the remains of roast hare, £ lb. of bread, 3 eggs, pepper, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of stock, No. 273, £ lb. of bread-crumbs. Mode.—Mince the hare extremely fine, and add the seasoning; soak