Recipes for Soups. Sufficient for 8 persons. employed to grease the cartridges of the Indian army, was one o( the proximate causes of the great sepoy rebellion of 1857. There are no animals of greater use to man than the tribe to which the ox belongs. There is hardly a part of them that does not enter into some of the arts and purposes of civilized life. Of their horns are made combs, knife-handles, boxes, spoons and drinking cups. They are also made into transparent plates for lanterns: an invention ascribed in England to King Alfred. Glue is made from their gristles, cartilages, and portions of their hides. Their bones often form a substitute for ivory; their skins, when calves, are manufactured into vellum ; their blood is the basis of Prussian blue; their sinews furnish fine and strong threads, used by saddlers; their hair enters Into various manufactures; their tallow is made into candles; their flesh is eaten; and the utility of the milk and cream of the cow is well known. 366.—OX-TAIL SOUP. (Fr.—Potage de Queue de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—2 ox-tails, 2 slices of ham, 1 oz. of batter, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 1 leek, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 1 bay leaf, 12 whole peppercorns, 4 cloves, a tablespoonful of salt, 2 table- spoonfuls of ketchup, £ glass of port wine, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut up the tails, separating them at the joints; wash them, and put them in a stewpan with the butter. Cut the vegetables in slices, and add them, with the peppercorns and herbs. Put in £ pint of water, and stir it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn. Fill up the stew- pan with the water, and, when boiling, add the salt. Skim well, and simmer very gently for 4 hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, skim and strain the soup, thicken with flour, and flavour with the ketchup and port wine. Put back the tails, simmer for five minutes, and serve. Time—4^ hours. Average Cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 10 persons. 367.—OX-TAIL SOUP. {A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—I ox-tail, 3 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of flour, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 onion stuck with 3 cloves, £ head of celery, bunch of herbs, 12 pepper- corns, salt, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Joint the ox-tail and blanch it, take the pieces from the water and wipe them dry. Melt half the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of tail, the vegetables prepared and cut small, and fry about 10 minutes ; add the water and the salt. Let this come to the boil, skim well and simmer about two hours. Take a second stewpan, and melt the remainder of the butter, stir in the flour, fry until browned, then add the strained stock. Stir until it boils, skimming occasionally; season to taste. Strain the soup into the tureen, and serve in it pieces of the tail, and small rounds of carrot and turnip previously cooked. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable any time.