Jerusalem Artichokes. 7.31 1532.—BOILED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. (Fr.—Topinambours a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—To each I gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoon- ful of salt; artichokes. Mode.—Wash, peel and shape the artichokes in a round or oval form, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, salted in the above propor- tion. Let them boil gently until tender; take them up, drain them, and serve them in a napkin, or plain, whichever mode is preferred; send to table with them a tureen of melted butter or cream sauce, a little of which may be poured over the artichokes when they are not served in a napkin. Time.—About 20 minutes after the water boils. Average Cost, 2d. to $d. per lb. Sufficient,—10 for a dish for 6 persons. Seasonable from September to June. Uses of the Jerusalem Artichoke.—This being a tuberous-rooted plant, with leafy stems from four to six feet high, it is alleged that its tops will afford as much fodder per acre as a crop of oats, or more, and its roots half as many tubers as an ordinary crop of potatoes. The tubers, being abundant in the market-gardens, are to be had at little more than the price of polatoes. The fibres of the stems may be separated by maceration, and manufactured into cordage or cloth; and this is said to be done in some parts of the north and west ot France, as about Hagenau, where this plant, on the poor sandy soils, is an object of field-culture. The leaves are particularly suitable to pack fruit in. I533--MASHED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. {Fr.— Puree de Topinambours.) Ingredients.—To each £ gallon of water allow 1 oz. of salt; 15 or 16 artichokes, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Boil the artichokes as in the preceding recipe until tender; drain and press the water from them, and beat them up with a fork. When thoroughly mashed and free from lumps, put them into a sauce- pan with the butter and a seasoning of white pepper and salt; keep stirring over the fire until the artichokes are quite hot, and serve. To above sauce a cupful of cream may be added (Topinambours d la Creme). Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. to'3d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from September to June. 1534—JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES with WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—Topinambours a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—12 to 15 artichokes, 12 to 15 Brussels sprouts, 4 pint of white sauce, No. 795. Mode.—Pe'e’l and cut the artichoke's in the shape of a pear; cut a JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES.