304 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 657.—APPLE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Pommes.) (For Geese, Pork, &c.) Ingredients.—6 good-sized apples, sifted sugar to taste, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, water. Mode.—Pare, core and quarter the apples, and throw them into cold water to preserve their whiteness. Put them in a saucepan, with suffi- cient water to moisten them, and boil till soft enough to pulp. Beat them up, adding sugar to taste, and a small piece of butter. This quantity is sufficient for a good-sized tureen. Time.—According to the apples, about £ hour. Average Cost, <\d. Sufficient, this quantity, for a goose or couple of ducks. 658.—BROWN APPLE SAUCE. {Fr.—Sauce aux Pommes.) Ingredients.—6 good-sized apples, £ pint of brown gravy, cayenne to taste. Mode.-—Put the gravy in a stewpan and add the apples, after having pared, cored and quartered them. Let them simmer gently till tender; beat them to a pulp, and season with cayenne. This sauce is preferred by many to the preceding. Time.—According to the apples, about £ hour. Average Cost, 6d. 659.—APRICOT SAUCE. {Fr.—Sauce aux Abricots.) {For Sweet Puddings, &c.) Ingredients.—1 dozen apricots, 1 teaspoonful of flour or arrowroot, r glass of sherry, sugar to taste. Mode.—Cut the apricots in half, remove the stones and crush the kernels in a mortar, put them with the fruit in a stewpan with enough water to just cover them. Mix the arrowroot very smoothly with water and add, with the sherry and sugar, to the fruit. When the apricots are well stewed the sauce is ready. Strain and serve. Time.—I hour. Average Cost, in full season, is. 6d. Seasonable August, September and October. 660.—ARROWROOT SAUCE. (For Puddings.) Ingredients.—2 small teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, 4 dessertspoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of one lemon, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, £ pint of water. Mode.-—Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the water; put this into a stewpan ; add the sugar, strained lemon-juice and grated nutmeg. Stir these ingredients over the fire until they beil, when the sauce is ready