3ii Melted Butter. Mode.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add first the flour, then the water very gradually with a seasoning of salt; stir it constantly till the whole of the ingredients are thoroughly blended and leave no lumps. Let it thoroughly boil, when it is ready to serve. Just before serving, add a little cream or another ounce of butter, cut in pieces, but do not again allow it to boil. Lemon-juice is a great improvement. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, 4d., without cream. 677.—MELTED BUTTER. (Fr — Sauce au Beurre.) IMore Economical.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, salt to taste, £ pint of water. Mode.—Mix the flour and water to a smooth batter, which put into a saucepan. Add the flour and a seasoning of salt, keep stirring one way till all the ingredients are melted and perfectly smooth ; let the whole boil for a minute or two, and serve. Time.—2 minutes to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2d. 678.—MELTED BUTTER. (Fr.—Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, \ pint of white stock or milk and water, salt and nutmeg to taste, a teaspoonful of white vinegar. Mode.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add 1 oz of butter and the stock warmed. Stir with a wooden spoon very gradually and leave no lumps, as they cannot be taken out afterwards. Let the sauce thoroughly boil. Then add off the fire the rest of the butter and the flavouring and do not let it boil again. Some cooks add the yolk of an egg- Flour varies a good deal and the sauce may be too thick, in which case a little more stock should be added. Nutmeg. (Fr.—Muscade.) This is a native of the Moluccas, and was long kept from being spread in other places by the monopolising spirit of the Dutch, who endeavoured to keep it wholly to themselves by eradicating it from every other island. We find it stated in “ Beeton’s Dictionary of Universal Information,” under the article “ Banda Islands,” that the four largest are appropriated to the cultiva- tion of nutmegs, of which about 500,000 lbs. are annually produced. The plant, through the enterprise of the British, has now found its way into Penang and Bencoolen, where it flourishes and produces well. It has also been tried to be naturalised in the West Indies, and it bears fruit all the year round. There are two kinds of nutmeg—one wild, and long and oval-shaped, the other cultivated and nearly round. The best is firm and hard, and has a strong aromatic odour, with a hot and acrid taste. It ought to be used with caution bv those who are of paralvtlc or apoplectic habit. v v