1343 Dinner Wines. 3058. The wines at an ordinary dinner are sherry, champagne, claret, madeira and port. Sherry or hock is introduced with the soup and the fish, champagne with the joints, and at the dessert are all of those ENTREE DISH. named (sometimes port is omitted now). Liqueurs are served with the “ sweetcourse.” Champagne is not decanted, but is carried round by the attendants with a white napkin round the neck of the bottle. 3059. To Lay the Dessert.— This may be very simple, and consist merely of a couple of dishes of fresh fruit in season, two of dried fruits, and two each of dessert-biscuits and nuts. Ices may be handed round for each guest to serve himself, an ice-plate being put under the finger-bowl, or a portion on an ice-plate may be handed to each guest. If the ice is sent in ice-pails, the latter is the better way ; if it is moulded, perhaps the former. When there are two principlal dessert dishes, put them to the host and hostess, or upon either side of the centre vase of flowers. Frosted or crystallised fruit is served in glass dishes, with ornamental paper d’oyleys. Ice nicely broken, in ornamental pails, should find a place upon the dessert table in summer. Put a dessert plate to each person, and a dessert-knife, fork, and spoon, with glasses according to the wine. The plate should have a d'oyley upon it; put a finger-glass, filled to within two inches of the brim with cold water in summer and slightly warm in winter, or scented waters, at the right hand of the plate. The dishes must have their respective implements close to them, such as the grape-scissors, melon-cutter, &c. Always remember to have finely-sifted loaf sugar in nice-looking glass, or electro, or silver bowls, with sugar-ladles, either upon the table or the sideboard ; and if cream be required, let it stand by the dish it is to be served with. An elegant glass water-jug, with two corresponding drinking-glasses, should be placed somewhere near the centre of the table. Wine is put, decanted, at the top and bottom. If coffee is served before the ladies leave the dinner-table, it should be last of all, and poured into very small cups and handed round on a tray to the guests by the servants, together with cream and sugar. Tea is not served until after dinner, when the guests re-assemble in the drawing-room. WICKER SAUCE STAND.