Compote of Peaches. 1009 2182.-ORANGES AND LEMONS PRESERVED WHOLE. Ingredients.—8 lbs. of sugar-candy, 1 quart of water, oranges or lemons. Mode.—Put the sugar and water on the fire in a saucepan and make a syrup of it. See that the fruit is good and sound, put it whole into the syrup and boil very slowly till only half the syrup is left. When quite cold put into jars, adding a wineglassful of rum to every pint of syrup made. Time.—2 hours. Seasonable.—February or March for oranges; November to April for lemons. 2183.—ORANGE SALAD. Ingredients.—6 oranges, £ lb. of muscatel raisins, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Peel 5 of the oranges; divide them into slices without break- ing the pulp, and arrange them on a glass dish. Stone the raisins, mix them with the sugar and brandy and mingle them with the oranges. Squeeze the juice of the other orange over the whole, and the dish is ready for table. A little pounded spice may be put in when the flavour, is liked ; but this ingredient mu9t be added very sparingly. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from November to May. 2184.-COMPOTE OF PEACHES. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, No. 2115, about 15 small peaches. Mode.—Peaches that are not very large, and that would not look well for dessert, answer very nicely for a compote. Divide the peaches, take out the stones, and pare the fruit; make a syrup by recipe No. 2115, put in the peaches and stew them gently for about 10 minutes. Take them out without breaking, arrange them on a glass dish, boil the syrup for 2 or 3 minutes, let it cool, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, it will be readv for table. -> Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in August and September. Peach and Nectarine.—The peach and nectarine, which are among the most delicious of our fruits, are considered as varieties of the Same species, produced by cultivation. The former is characterized by a very delicate down, while the latter is smooth; but as a proof of their identity as to species, trees have borne peaches on one part and nectarines on another; and even a single fruit has had down on one side, and on the other none ; the trees are almost exactly alike, as well as the blossoms. Pliny states that the peach was originally brought from Persia, where it grows paturdly. At Montreuil, a village near Paris, almost the whole population is employed in the' cultivation of peaches; and this occupation has maintained the inhabitants for ages, and in