College Pudding's- 8$E and when the milk and nut are quite cool add these ingredients, beatin? thoroughly. Grate the half of a small nutmeg, pound the biscuit and add to the above. Line deep plates with puff-paste and put a rim of the same, fill them with the above mixture and bake at once for io minutes, or till the paste is done. , Time.—Altogether 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. <bd. without tha puff-paste. Sufficient for 2 pies. Seasonable in autumn. 1750-CODLING TART. Ingredients.—6 or 8 codlings, 3 oz. of pounded lump sugar, short-crust, No. 1C80. Mode.—The fruit must be scalded and then the skin removed ; put them uncut into a tart dish with a little of the water they were scalded in, and bake. Sprinkle over them pounded lump sugar. Let them get quite cold, then put an edging of good paste round the dish, brush the crust with white of egg, and having sprinkled sugar over the top, send to table with a nice plain custard. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, iod. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1751.—COLD PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 eggs, I pint of milk, sugar to taste, a little grated lemon-rind, 2 oz. of raisins, 4 tablespoonfuls of marmalade, a few slices of sponge-cake. Mode.—Sweeten the milk with lump sugar, add a little grated lemon- rind and stir to this the eggs, which should be well whisked : line a buttered mould with the raisins, stoned and cut in half; spread the slices of cake with the marmalade and place them in the mould; then pour in the custard, tie the pudding down with paper and a cloth, and boil gently for 1 hour; when cold, turn it out and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1752.-COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—I pint of bread-crumbs, 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, i lb. of currants, a few thin slices of candied peel, 3 oz. of sugar, £ nutmeg, 3 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Put the bread-crumbs into a basin; add the suet, currants, candied peel, sugar and nutmeg, grated, and stir these ingredients until