Gingerbread. 1121 2483.—ANDREW’S GINGERBREAD. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, £ lb. of sugar, £ lb. of butter, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of ginger. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the eggs, then add to the butter and sugar, and add the flour, mixed with the ginger, till the mix- ture is thick enough to roll out. Roll into thin sheets, and bake on flat tins. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. 2484—HONEYCOMB GINGERBREAD. Ingredients.—£ lb. of flour, 4 lb. of the coarsest brown sugar, £ lb. ol treacle, £ lb. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of allspice, 2 ditto of ground ginger, the peel of half a lemon grated, and the whole of the juice. Mode.—Mix all these together, adding about half a pound of treacle to make a paste sufficiently thin to spread upon sheet tins. Beat it well, butter the tins, and spread the paste very thinly over them; bake it in rather a slow oven, and watch it till it is done; withdraw the tins, cut it in squares with a knife to the usual size of wafer biscuits—about 4 inches square—and roll each piece round the fingers as it is raised from the tin. Time. —£ hour. Average Cost, 9d. Seasonable at any time. 2485.-RICH SWEETMEAT GINGERBREAD NUTS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of treacle, £ lb. of clarified butter, 1 lb. of coarse brown sugar, 2 oz. of ground ginger, 1 oz. of candied-orange peel, 1 oz. of candied angelica £ oz. of candied lemon-peel, £ oz. of coriander seeds, £ oz. of caraway seeds, 1 egg, flour. Mode.—Put the treacle into a basin, and pour over it the butter, melted so as not to oil, the sugar, a id ginger. Stir these ingredients wel together, and whilst mixing, add the candied peel, which should be cut into very small pieces, but not bruised, and the caraway and coriander seeds, which should be pounded. Having mixed all thoroughly together, break in an egg, and work the whole up with as much fine flour as may be necessary to form a paste. Make this into nuts of any size, put them on a tin plate, and bake in a slow oven from a quarter to half an hour. Time.—£ to £ hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Seasonable at any time. 2486.-THICK GINGERBREAD. Ingredients.—1 lb. of treacle, £ lb. of butter, £ lb. of coarse brown sugar, i£ b. of flour, 1 oz. of ginger, £ oz. of ground allspice, 1 teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda, £ pint of warm milk, 3 eggs.