1556 Recipes for Sick-Nursn. vinegar; and when it is required very strong, mustard, with a very little linseed-meal, is to be mixed with warm vinegar. Equal parts of linseed and raw mustard are sometimes used. 3500.—FOMENTATIONS. These are generally used to effect, in a part, the benefit produced on the whole of the body by the bath; to which a sedative action is occasionally given by the use of roots, herbs, or other ingredients!; the object being to relieve the internal organ, as the throat, or muscles round a joint, by exciting a greater flow of blood to the skin over the affected part. As the real agent of relief is heat, the fomentation should always be as hot as it can comfortably be borne, and, to insure effect, should be repeated every half-hour. Warm fluids are applied in order to render the swelling which accompanies inflammation less painful, by the greater readiness with which the skin yields than when it is harsh and dry. They are of various kinds ; but the most simple, and oftentimes the most useful, that can be employed is “ Warm Water.” 3501. -HOT-WATER FOMENTATION. A great deal of the trouble of wringing out the flannel can be saved if there happens to be a steamer in the house, into which it should be put over boiling water after being folded to the required size. Another plan is to damp the flannel with hot water, then lay it on the register with a sheet of paper above and below. When turpentine has to be added, sprinkle it on the side of the poultice to be applied. Cover the flannel used to foment, which should be folded four times thick, with wool and oil silk. 3502. —POPPY-HEAD FOMENTATION. Another kind of fomentation is composed of dried poppy-heads, 4 oz. Break them to pieces, empty out the seeds, put them into 4 pints of water, boil for a quarter of an hour; then strain through a cloth or sieve, and keep the water for use. Or, camomile-flowers, hemlock, and many other plants, may be boiled, and the part fomented with the hot liquor, by means of flannels wetted with the decoction. 3503— OINTMENT FOR CHAPPED HANDS. Ingredients.—I oz. of bitter almonds, oil of sweet almonds, the yolk of 1 egg, and a little tincture of benzoin ; 10 drops of oil of caraway. Mode.—Blanch the almonds, beat them to a paste by working in gradually the oil of sweet almonds and the egg, also the benzoin and oil