Rules for Broiling. 107 Yet it is now accounted, and with reason, the most difficult mode of cookery to practice with success. We have learnt to distinguish between broiling and toast- ing, and we speak of broiled meat and fish and mushrooms, and of toasted bread and herrings, though each may be done both before and over the fire, and they are essentially the same. But it is convenient to describe the process of broiling as it applies to meat, and to speak separately of toasting dry food. 220. Rules for Broiling Meat.—We have to deal with albumen, fibrine, gelatine, soluble salt and fat. Albumen is soluble in cold or warm water, coagulates at 160°, settles into a tough opaque mass at 2120 that with continued heat gets hard and horny. Fibrine swells and softens with moderate heat. The difference between a well and an ill-broiled chop consists in the juiciness of the one and the dryness of the other. The fire draws the juice out, its tendency so to do is not counteracted. The way we make beef-extract, which is the juice drawn out of lean meat, is to put the meat over a slow fire: in the case of a broiled steak the beef extract is likely to get burnt, because directly it falls out of the steak it is into the fire. But we have already seen that albumen coagulates when greatly heated, therefore if the chop, instead of being slowly warmed, is suddenly heated, a crust of albumen, impervious to water, is formed all over the surface, and the juices are shut up inside. Broiling is so quickly done that the heat may be continued all the time, and need not be lessened after the first few minutes, as in the case of roasting. The meat must be turned frequently so that it may be heated and the albumen may coagulate all over and not merely on one side. Tongs are sold to turn it over with, because they cannot be used to stick into the meat and make holes for the juice to run out, but a knife or spoon or a fork run into the fat answers just as well in the hands of a cook who knows the reason why a blunt instru- ment is recommended. Some few broiled things should not be turned : a mush- room, for instance, is broiled stalk upwards. Of a split fish the inside should first go to the fire, and afterwards the skin. Paper is wrapped round salmon in some other cases. The rules for broiling remain the same always. A hot fire at first, with a hot gridiron well greased. Frequent turning. No holes made to turn over, nor cuts to see if the meat is cooked. It is not an economical way of cooking, for though it is quick it takes a great deal of fuel to make a good broiling fire. The meat loses weight more than in most ways of cooking. And it is only suited for tender, juicy meat from the best joints. In toasting any food the same general rule applies. Take, for instance, a slice of bread. If it is desired to have it browned outside and moist in it must be held to a fierce fire, so that the surface begins to char before the middle has parted with its moisture by evaporation. If it is wished to have toast dried throughout it must be toasted slowly at a distance from a large fire or at a small one. 221. Baking naturally comes next to roasting ; the two often do duty for one another. As in all other methods of cookery the surrounding air may be many degrees hotter than boiling water, but the food is not appreciably hotter until it has lost water by evaporation, after which it may readily burn. The hot air of the oven is greedy of water, and evaporation is great, so that ordinary baking (i.e., just to shut the food into a hot air chamber) is not suited for anything that needs moist heat. But baking often means to put some dry substance in a dish with water and to shut it in the air chamber, and under such circumstances it amounts to much the same as boiling with surface heat added.