I2tO Recipes for Beverages. sugar-candy broken into rather small pieces. Pour over all these £ts niUCh spirit as the vessel with contain. Let it stand a month somewhere in the sun. Filter off and bottle. 2709. -VANILLA LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—2 sticks of vanilla, 3 pints of brandy, or proof gin, 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.—Break up the vanilla into the spirit, cork, and let it infuse a fortnight. Boil the sugar in a quart of water to a clear syrup, then pour in the spirit and vanilla and simmer 10 minutes. Filter and bottle. 2710. —ORANGE BRANDY. (Excellent.) Ingredients.—To every £ gallon of brandy allow £ pint of fe ille orange-juice, i£ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—To bring out the full flavour of the orange-peel, rub a few lumps of the sugar on 2 or 3 unpared oranges, and put these lumps to the rest. Mix the brandy with the orange-juice, strained, the rinds of 6 of the oranges, pared very thin, and the sugar. Let all stand in a closely-covered jar for about 3 days, stirring it 3 or 4 times a day. When clear, it should be bottled and close-corked for a year; it will then be ready for use, but will keep any length of time. This is a most excellent stomachic when taken pure in small quantities; or, as the strength of the brandy is very little deteriorated by the other ingredients, it may be diluted with water. Time.—To be stirred every day for 3 days. Average Cost, 10s. Sufficient to make 2 quarts. Seasonable.—Make this in March. 2711.-A VERY SIMPLE AND EASY METHOD OF MAKING VERY SUPERIOR ORANGE WINE. Ingredients.—90 Seville oranges, 32 lbs. of lump sugar, water. Mode.—Break up the sugar into small pieces, and put it into a dry, sweet 9-gallon cask, placed in a cellar or other storehouse, where it is intended to be kept. Have ready close to the cask two large pans or wooden keelers, into one of which put the peel of the oranges pared quite thin, aod into the other the pulp after the juice has been squeezed from it. Strain the juice through a piece of double muslin, and put it into the cask with the sugar. Then pour about i£ gallon of cold spring water on both the peels and pulp; let it stand for 24 hours, and then strain it into VICHY.