?o62 Recipes for Making Ices and Confectionery. The mould should be immediately inserted into a tub of rough ice and salt, seeing that every part of the mould is well covered, and in contact with the ice and salt. In about an hour, or longer, if convenient, the mould may be withdrawn and the ice turned out and sent to table. Note.—All dessert ices and puddings should contain only a certain amount of sweetness ; the proper richness is shown by using a “ Saccharometer,” which can be had with each machine, price 3s. 6d. 2318.—THE SACCHAROMETER. Directions for its Use.—Nearly fill a tumbler with the sweet mixture, place the Saccharometer gently into it, and if mixed correctly for freezing with ice and salt, it will sink|to the lowest red mark ; for freezing with freez- ing powders, it will sink to the highest red mark; to make the Saccharo- meter sink, add milk to a cream ice, and water to a water ice ; to make it rise, add more sugar or sweet syrup. Ices, puddings, and confections will not freeze unless mixed by this scale. Note.—We are indebted to the courtesy of the manager of the Piston Freezing Machine Company, 301 and 303, Oxford Street, W., for many of these recipes and for much valuable information. DROPS OR SWEETMEATS. All these are now more commonly and more cheaply bought than made at home, but we add a few recipes for those who prefer them home-made. 2319.—PRESERVED FRUIT IN CAKES. Ingredients.—Fruit, sugar. Mode.—Any fruit you may chance to have may be preserved most economically as follows : To every lb. of fruit allow half a pound of sugar, with a little water. When the water and sugar are heated, take up the fruit in your skimmer, as much as it will hold, and dip it for about a minute into the sugar; after this spread it on tins. All the fruit,must be done thus. Then boil down the sugar till you get a rich thick syrup, and pour it over the fruit. The fruit must now be put either in the sun, or in a warm oven, till it is in a dried gelatinous condition. Let it remain till quite dry, when put it in bags, dividing it into cakes. These cakes will keep a long time, and, when wanted for use, merely require a little hot water put to them and probably extra sugar.