1172 Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs. the others. Egg-tests are useful in determining the freshness of eggs. One of the best is Schafer’s Egg-Tester. This ingenious apparatus is a speculum, furnished with an interior looking-glass, which renders the egg sufficiently transparent to show if it is fresh, infected, or really bad. If fresh, a clear disk is thrown ; if stale, a cloudy disk with spots ; and if foul, a dark unsightly disk is visible. Eggs contain, for their volume, a greater quantity of nutriment than any other article of food. But it does not follow that they are always good for weak stomachs ; quite the contrary; for it is often a great object to give the stomach a large surface to work upon, a considerable volume of ingesta, over which the nutritive matter is diffused, and so exposed to the action of the gastric juice at many points. There are many persons who cannot digest eggs, however cooked. Their digestibility decreases in proportion to the degree in which they are hardened by boiling. 2612.—COMPARATIVE SIZES OF EGGS. 1 ? 1 4 SWAN’S EGG. TURKEY'S EGG. DUCK’S EGG. PLOVER’S EGG. 2613.—TO KEEP EGGS FRESH FOR SEVERAL WEEKS. Have ready a large saucepan, capable of holding 3 or 4 quarts, full of boiling water. Put the eggs into a cabbage-net, say 20 at a time, and hold them in the water (which must be kept boiling) for 20 seconds. Proceed in this manner till you have done as many eggs as you wish to preserve; then pack them away in the sawdust. We have tried this method of preserving eggs, and can vouch for its excellence; they will be found, at the end of 2 or 3 months, quite good enough for culinary purposes ; and although the white may be a little tougher than that of a new-laid egg, the yolk will be nearly the same. Many persons keep eggs for a long time by smearing the shells with butter or sweet oil; the}' should then be packed in plenty of bran or sawdust, and the eggs not allowed to touch each other. Eggs for storing should be collected in fine weather, and should not be more than 24 hours old when they are packed away, or their flavour, when used, cannot be relied on. Another simple way of preserving eggs is to immerse them in lime-water soon after they have been laid, and then to put the vessel containing the lime-water in a cellar or cool outhouse.