Preserved Quinces. ^017 of the jars. The tops of them may be afterwards covered with pieces of bladder, or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg.. Time.—3 hours to boil the quinces without the sugar ; f hour to boil the pulp with the sugar. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow 1 pint of sliced quinces for a lb. pot. Seasonable in August, September and October. 22oi.—PRESERVED QUINCES. Ingredients.—Quinces, sugar, water. Mode.—Pare and quarter the fruit; boil in enough water to keep them whole ; when they are tender take them out, and to each pound of quinces add 1 lb. of white sugar; let them stand with the sugar on until the next day, when the syrup wil( be as light and clear as amber; put them in the pan and let them boil 20 minutes; they never get hard. The water they were boiled in may be used to make a jelly of the parings ; add x lb. of white sugar to each pint of juice, and boil half an hour. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, is. per lb. Seasonable August, September and October. 2202.— RAISIN CHEESE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of raisins allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar ; pounded cinnamon and cloves to taste. Mode.—Stone the raisins ; put them into a stewpan with the sugar, cinnamon and cloves, and let them boil for i| hour, stirring all the time. Let the preparation cool a little, pour it into a glass dish, and garnish with strips of candied lemon-peel and citron. This will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—1| hour. Average Cost, for one dish, gd. Sufficient.—I lb. for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2203.—RAISINE. Ingredients.—Grapes, pears, sugar (if with unripe grapes). Mode.—Get some very ripe but quite sound grapes, squeeze the juice from them, and boil it till it is reduced one half. Peel and core some pears, cut them into quarters, and put them in the grape syrup. Let it boil till it is reduced a third. Raisine may be made with unripe grapes, but in this case sugar must be added, allowing a quarter of a pound to every pint of the grape juice. Time.—1£ hour. Average Cost, gd. per pint; with sugar, iod. Seasonable in September and October.