1581 Bronchitis. Treatment.—Avoid everything likely to set up an attack, particularly indi- gestible articles of diet. During, the attack, if there is reason to believe that the stomach is at fault, an emetic of twenty grains of powdered ipecacuanha, or the same of sulphate of zinc, may be given to an adult. Relief may be obtained by getting the patient to take a few whiffs from a pipe of tobacco or stramonium. Ozone papers are useful, as are also the Cigares Anti-asthmatiques de Mr. 7ov. In the interval, the health of the patient should be carefully attended to. Chance ot air is often beneficial, and tonics, such as cold sponging and the shower-bath when there is no other reason preventing their employment. 3£j4®' Bright S Disease—This is a name applied to several affections of the kidneys, which are dependent on an altered condition of the blood and generally associated with dropsy and with albumen in the urine It mav be either acute or chronic. ' y u Symptoms. Acute Bright’s disease may occur from cold, from a blow from taking substances such as turpentine or cantharides, which irritate the kidnevs scarle°feveSUa Iy ” f°llowS some acute febrile disturbance, and more especially Treatment-Hot baths do good by causing sweating, and giving free action to the excretory power of the skin. They may be given at bedtime and repeated every night .the water should be about 95° to 98° Fahr., and the patient may remain in it for from fiye to ten minutes, then be quickly dried and put to bed Purgatives should be given, such as compound jalap powder, twenty to thirty grains of which may be given to an adult. Rest in bed in a warm room is most important, nor ought the patient to think of leaving his room until all the dropsy sy™,pt°ms,. have, subsided. Light nourishing food may be taken, as bread and milk, beef-tea, fried sole, broth, rice pudding, arrowroot and gruel During convalescence, great care must be taken to avoid cold, and flannel should De worn. Ionics containing iron and quinine are useful. In Chronic Bright's Disease even if an unskilled person were able to detect it little can be done except under medical direction. 3549. Bronchitis. — This is an inflammatory disease of the lining membrane of the bronchial tubes. It may be acute or chronic. Symptoms.—Acute bronchitis is very liable to attack persons in the winter, and mngvthe Preva|ence of east or north-east winds. It begins like an ordinary cold, then there is a feeling of chilliness, and aching pains in the limbs. The patient is thirsty and feverish, with languor and headache, loss of appetite and restlessness ; there is an uneasy feeling of soreness behind the breast bone At first there is a dry, hacking cough, and very little phlegm is brought up : in two °r three oays the cough becomes looser, and the expectoration is more abundant. Wheezing sounds are heard in the air passages. Treatment.—When the chilly feeling is experienced, the patient should go to bed and keep there till he is warm again ; in this way, an attack may be checked in a short time. The air should be warm, and for this purpose a fire should be lighted and the temperature kept about 60^ Fahr. A kettle of boiling water placed on the fire, and the steam allowed to pass into the room, will help to keep the air moist. A warm bath before going to bed is also useful, as it encourages free perspiration. A hot linseed meal poultice may be placed on the chest and renewed every few hours if necessary. A piece of gutta percha tissue may be placed over the poultice to prevent the moisture from wetting the clothes i urpentime stupes and sinapisms may be useful, should milder measures fail to give relief. A mixture such as this may be given ipecacuanha wine, two drachms; concentrated infusion of senega, one ounce; water to make eight ounces : a tablespoonful to be taken every three or four hours. Should the case be