Boiled Rice Pudding. 873 Mode.—Soak the rice well; add the milk, sugar, butter, and flavouring. Stir altogether, and bake slowly 3 to 4 hours. Time.—3 or 4 hours. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1857.—TO BOIL RICE A L’INDIENNE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of rice, water. Mode.—Thoroughly wash the rice in three separate waters, then place it in a very large saucepan nearly full of water, let it boil gently until it is quite tender, which may be tried by pressing a grain between the thumb and finger. Pour the water off from the rice, and shake it over the fire in a smaller saucepan until it is quite dry. Turn it into a hot basin, and cover with a plate ; place before the fire, let it stand 5 minutes, then turn it out into a hot dish ready for the table. Time.—30 minutes to boil. Average Cost, 3^. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1858.—PLAIN BOILED RICE PUDDING. Ingredients.—| lb. of rice. Mode.—Wash the rice, tie it in a pudding-cloth, allowing room for the rice to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water ; boil it gently for 2 hours, and if, after a time, the cloth seems tied too loosely, take the rice up and tighten the cloth. Serve with sweet melted butter, or cold butter and sugar, or stewed fruit, jam or marmalade ; any of which ac- companiments are suitable for plain boiled rice. Time.—2 hours after the water boils. Average Cost, 2d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1859.—BOILED RICE PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of rice, i| pint of new milk, 2 oz. of new butter, 4 eggs, saltspoonful of salt, 4 large tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, flavour- ing to taste. Mode.—Stew the rice very gently in the above proportion of new milk, and when it is tender, pour it into a basin; stir in the butter, and let it stand to cool; then beat the eggs, add these to the rice with the sugar, salt, and any flavouring that may be approved, such as nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, essence of bitter almonds, or vanilla. When