95i Peach Fritters. 2032.—PASTRY CUSTARD OR CREAM. (Much used in High-class Cookery.) Ingredients.—4 oz. of flour, 4 oz. of sugar, yolks of 8 and whites of 2 eggs, 6 oz. of butter, 1 pint of cream or milk, 1 oz. of ratafias, 1 table- spoonful of orange-flower water, a little salt. Mode.—Mix the flour, sugar, salt and 2 whole eggs together in a stew- pan with a wooden spoon, add the cream and 2 oz. of butter, and stir well till it boils. Put the lid on the pan and cook 20 minutes over a very slow fire. Then turn it into a basin, add the ratafias, orange-flower water and the well-beaten yolks of eggs. Melt the rest of the butter in a small stew- pan, and as soon as it turns a light-brown add it to the cream. Time.—j hour altogether. Average Cost, with cream, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a large dish of tarts. Seasonable at any time. 2033.—PEACH FRITTERS. (Fr —Beignets aux Peches.) Ingredients.—For the batter: £ lb. of flour, £ oz. of butter, | salt- spoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, peaches, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode .—Make a nice smooth batter in the same manner as directed in recipe, No. 2029, and skin, halve and stone the peaches, which should ba quite ripe; dip them in the batter, and fry the pieces in hot lard or clarified dripping, which should be brought to the boiling-point before the peaches are put in. From 8 to 10 minutes will be required to fry them, and, when done, drain them before the fire, and dish them on a white d’oyley. Strew over plenty of pounded sugar, and serve. Tinned peaches may be used, or apricots. Time.—From 8 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters; 5 minutes to drain them. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in July, August and September. Peach.—The peach and nectarine are amongst the most delicious of our fruits, and are considered as varieties of the same species produced by culti- vation. The former is characterized by a very delicate down, while the latter is smooth ; but as a proof of their identity as to species, trees have borne peaches in one part and nectarines in another; and even a single fruit has had down on one side and the other smooth The trees are almost exactly alike, as well as the blossoms. Pliny states that the peach was originally brought from Persia, where it grows naturally, from which the name of Persica was bestowed upon it by the Romans ; and some modern botanists apply this as the generic name, separating them from Amygdalus, or Almond, to which Linnaeus had united them. Although they are not tropical, they require a great deal of warmth to bring them to perfection ; hence they seldom ripen in this country, in ordinary seasons, without the use of walls or glass; consequently they bear a high price. In a good peach, the flesh is firm, the skin thin, of a deep bright colour next the sun, and of a yellowish green next to the wall; the pulp is yellowish, full of peach. highly-flavoured juice, the fleshy part thick, and the stone small. Too much down is a sign of inferior quality. This fruit is much used at the dessert, and makes a delicious preserve.