CHAPTER LXVIII. MEN SERVANTS’ DUTIES. THE BUTLER. 3222. The butler is the head of the male house-servants, and his duties are the most responsible, not the least amongst them being the superintending of the men under him if there be several. It is he who must see that their duties are properly performed, that they do not rob their master of either time or service. To him is confided the charge of all the most valuable articles in daily use, and under his sole charge is the cellar. It is needless to say, therefore, that he should be a man whose conduct is above suspicion as his influence for good or bad will materially affect the other male domestics. 3223. The domestic duties of the butler are to bring in the eatables at breakfast, and wait upon the family at that meal, assisted by the footman, and see to the cleanliness of everything at table. On taking away, he removes the tray with the china and plate, for which he is responsible. At luncheon, he arranges the meal, and waits unassisted, the footman being now engaged in other duties. At dinner, he places the silver and plated articles on the table, sees that everything is in its place, and rectifies what is wrong. Where the dishes are carved on the dinner-table he carries in the first dish, and announces in the drawing-room that dinner is on the table, and respectfully stands thl BUTLFR- bv tbe door until the company are seated, when he takes his place behind his master’s chair on the left, to remove the covers, handing them to the other attendants to carry out. After the first course of plates is supplied, his place is at the sideboard, to serve the wines, but only when called on. The first course ended, he rings the cook's bell, and hands the dishes from the table to the other servants to carry away, receiving from them the second course, which he places on the table, removing the covers as before, and again taking his place at the sideboard. 3224. Carving at dmwefisnow generally done by the butler, for even the every-day family dinner is not put upon the table, the chief man- servant carving each dish at a side table. After serving the soups the butler has time to pour out the Sherry or Madeira taken after that course, LUNCH TRAY, then he returns to his post at the side table. Where there is much to be carved a helper is sometimes needed, but entrees