662 General Directions for Carving Poultry. When the leg is displaced, it should be of the same shape as that shown in the annexed woodcut. The legs and wings on either side having been taken off, the carver should draw his knife through the flesh in the direction of the line D to E : by this means the knife can be slipped underneath the merrythought, which being lifted up and pressed backwards, will immediately come off. The collar or neck bones are the next to consider: these lie on each side of the merrythought, close under the upper part of the wings ; and, in order to free these from the fowl, they must also be raised by the knife at their broad end, and turned from the body towards the breast-bone, until the shorter piece of the bone, as shown in the cut, breaks off. There will now be left only the breast, with the ribs. The breast can be, without difficulty, disen- gaged from the ribs, by cutting through the latter, which will offer little impediment. The side-bones are now to be taken off; and to do this, the lower end of the back should be turned from the carver, who should press the point of the knife through the top of the backbone, near the centre, bringing it down towards the end of the back, completely through the bone. If the knife is now turned in the opposite direction, the joint will be easily separated The backbone being now uppermost, the fork should be pressed firmly down on it, whilst at the same time the knife should be employed in raising up the lower small end of the fowl towards the fork, and thus the back will be dislocated about its middle. Some persons pre- fer the legs, but the wings, breast and merrythought are usually esteemed the prime parts of a fowl. Byron gave it as one reason why he did not like dining with ladies, that they always had the wings of the fowls, which he himself preferred. We heard a gentleman who, when he might have had a wing, declared his partiality for a leg, saying that he had beep obliged to eat legs for so long a time that he had at last come to like them better than the other parts. If the fowl is, capon-like, very large^ slices may be carved from its breast in the same manner as from p turkey’s. A boned fowl is usually carved by taking slices at the same place and at the same angle as the merry-thought, so that some of the stuffing may be given with each slice, or it may be cut at right angles to this, as from A to B m the illustration of boiled fowl, but this, as well as other boned birds, is so easy to carve, that it calls for no special directions, only it must be remembered that the stuffing, which is not as a rulfe the simple. LEG, WING AND NECK-BONE OF FOWL. from the vertebrae.