The Filter—Judson's Filters. 83 the instrument is then placed over the top of the neck of the bottle, and the curved projection, which terminates the upper arm, through the hole m the flat piece of metal to which the worm or screw is attached. By exerting pressure on the thin end of the upper arm, which acts as a lever, the cork is withdrawn from its position, and lifted out of the neck of the bottle. The price of the Tan- gent Lever Corkscrew, complete, is is. 4d. Extra screws may be had at 6d. each. The Rack Lever Corkscrew, in bronze, at 4s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., or in polished steel at ns. 6d.; and the Thumb Lever Corkscrew at 5s. 6d. or 7s., nickel plated, are excellent corkscrews, by which the most obstinate corks may be drawn without trouble or exertion to the drawer. 175. The Filter.—A filter is absolutely necessary in every house. There is little, if any, difficulty in keeping it clean, and there can be no doubt of its great utility in promoting and preserving health. There are many excellent filters now before the public, those of Mr. Lipscombe, Strand, London, W.C., being, perhaps, as good and as serviceable as any. These are supplied in various sizes, containing from 1 to 6 gallons, at prices ranging from 12s. 6d. to 375. 6d. each. There are, however, three patent filters which are highly esteemed in the present day, and of which mention must not be omitted here. These are: (1) The Spongy Iron Filter, invented by Professor Gustav Bischof, of the Andersonian University, Glasgow, and manufactured by the Spongy Iron Domestic Filter Company, 505, Oxford Street, London, W.C.; (2) The Silicated Carbon Filter, one of the “ Block ” charcoal filters made by the Silicated Carbon Filter Company, Battersea, London, S.W ; and (3) Maignen’s Patent “ Filtre Rapide,” a most desirable kind of filter, in which the filtering substance is Maignen’s Patent Carbo-calcis. It is made at the Asbestos Works, 118, Southwark Street, London, S.E. 176. Judson’s Filters.—Other excellent kinds of filters, which can be strongly recommended, are to be found in Judson’s “Perfect Purity’’ Filters, and “Aqua Pura" Filters which are the same as far as internal arrangements go, and which differ only in respect to the external and visible casing, that of the latter being made of Such materials and in such designs as enable' the proprie- tors, Messrs. Daniel Judson and Son, Limited, Southwark Street, London, S.E., to offer it at lower rates than the “Per- fect Purity.’’ Otherwise, both are fitted with the “ Galvano Electric ” Filtering Medium, a powdered or granulated mate- rial prepared from mineral substances only, which by its action imparts oxygen to the water that is brought into con- tact with it and completely •' Perfect Purity "Filter, destroys the vitality of the A 1 Stvle. most minute organisms that it may contain, and neutralises and removes all lead and other metallic poisons and gaseous impurities, arising from the decay of animal or vegetable life, or from sewer or cesspool gases, with which it may have become imbued. This filtering medium is easily renewable Glass Filter for Sitting Room.