335 Mushroom Sauce. 737. —BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. (Fr —Sauce aux Champignons.) (To Serve with Roast Meat, &c.) Ingredients.—£ pint of button mushrooms, £ pint of good beef gravy, No. 623 ; 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup (if at hand); thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put the gravy into a saucepan, thicken it, and stir over the fire until it boils. Prepare the mushrooms by cutting off the stalks and wiping them free from grit and dirt; the large flap mushrooms cut into small pieces will answer for a brown sauce, when the buttons are not obtainable. Put them into the gravy, and let them simmer very gently for about 10 minutes ; then add the ketchup, and serve. Time.—Rather more than 10 minutes. Seasonable from August to October. Note.—When fresh mushrooms are not obtainable, mushroom powder may be used as a substitute for brown sauce. 738. —W HITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Champignons.) (To Serve with Boiled Fowls, Cutlets, &c.) Ingredients.—Rather more than | pint of button mushrooms, lemon- juice and water, 1 oz. of butter, £ pint of bechamel, No. 665; £ teaspoon- ful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Turn the mushrooms white by putting them into lemon-juice and water, having previously cut off the stalks and wiped them perfectly free from grit. Chop them, and put them into a stewpan with the butter. When the mushrooms are softened, add the bechamel, and simmer for about 5 minutes ; should they, however, not be done enough, allow rather more time. They should not boil longer than necessary, as they would then lose their colour and flavour. Rub the whole through a tammy, and serve very hot. After this, it should be warmed in a bain marie. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, is. Seasonable from August to October. 739. —W HITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Champignons.) (A more simple Method.) Ingredients.—£ pint of melted butter, made with milk, No. 679; f pint of button mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, if at hand; cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Make the melted butter by Recipe No. 679, and add to it the mushrooms, which must be nicely cleaned, and free from grit, and the