Stewed Red Cabbage. ^4* Salt ness, use them 35 a vegetable along with their meat. This is the BraSsica cUraceaof science, the wild cabbage, or colewort, from which have originated all the varieties of cabbage, cauli- flower, greens, and brocoli. 1551— BOILED CABBAGE A LA WALTERS. (Fr— Choux a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—2 small, or 1 large summer white-heart cabbage, toast, 4 pint of melted butter, No. 677, or sauce blanche, No. 665. To each £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, a very small piece of soda. Mode.—Pick off all dead or faded outside leaves, cut off as much of the stalk as possible, and cut the cabbages across twice at the stalk end ; if they should be very large, quarter them. Wash them well in cold water, and drain. Throw them into plenty of fast-boiling water, to which have been added salt and soda in the above proportions. Stir them down once or twice in the water, and let them boil quickly for 8 minutes ; have another saucepan with fast-boiling water prepared as above, and throw them into it, and let them boil 12 minutes; throw away the water contained in the first saucepan, and fill it as before, remove the cabbages once again into this, and let them boil for 10 minutes if small, for 20 if large. Take up, drain into a colander with a plate over them, dish on a slice of toast dipped in the melted butter, No. 677, or the sauce blanche, No. 665. Pour the butter or sauce over, and serve very hot. Time.—Large cabbage, i to f hour, young small cabbage, 15 to 20 minutes, according to size. Average Cost, id. to 2d. each, in full season. Sufficient.—I large one for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June and July. The Cabbage.—The author of this recipe, one of the best yet invented for cooking this useful vegetable, states that, were the cabbage treated with the same respect, good cooking, and sauces,-with which other vegetables are treated, it would equal asparagus in flavour, and arti- chokes in delicacy. The three separate boilings remove all unpleasant flavour, and this dish is unrivalled as showing what may be done with this simple, common vegetable. 1552. STEWED RED CABBAGE. (Fr.— Choux au Jambon.) Ingredients.—1 red cabbage, a small slice of ham, £ oz. of fresh butter, 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 gill of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Cut the cabbage into very thin slices, put it into a stewpan, with the ham cut in dice, the butter, half a pint of stock, and the vinegar ; cover the pan closely, and let it stew for 1 hour. When it is very tender, add the remainder of the stock, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and the pounded sugar ; mix all well together, stir over the fire until nearly all the liquor has dried away, and serve. Fried sausages are usually sent to