Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 6l2 iron hooping I This system will not do. Every animal, from man himself to the guinea-pig, must have what is vulgarly, but truly, known as “elbow-room;” and it must be self-evident how emphatically this rule applies to winged animals. It may be urged, in the case of domestic fowls, that from constant disuse, and from clipping and plucking, and other sorts of maltreat- ment, their wings can hardly be regarded as instruments of flight; we maintain, however, that you may pluck a fowl’s wing-joint as bare as a pumpkin, but you will not erase from his memory that he is a fowl, and that his proper sphere is the open air. If he likewise reflects that he is an ill-used fowl—a prison bird—he will then come to the conclusion that there is not the least use, under such circumstances, for his existence; and one must admit that the decision is only logical and natural. 1298.—BOILED FOWL. (Fr.— Poulet aux Huitres.) (Excellent). Ingredients.—1 young fowl, 3 dozen oysters, the yolks of 2 eggs, £ pint of cream. Mode.—Truss a young fowl as for boiling; fill the inside with oysters which have been bearded and washed in their own liquor; secure the ends of the fowl, put it into a jar, and plunge the jar into a saucepan of boiling water. Keep it boiling for half-an-hour, or rather longer; then take the gravy that has flowed from the oysters and fowl, of which there will be a good quantity; stir in the cream and yolks of eggs, add a few oysters, scalded in their liquor ; let the sauce get quite hot, but do not allow it to boil; pour some of it over the fowl, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. A blade of pounded mace added to the sauce, with the cream and eggs, will be found an improvement. Time.—i£ hour. Average Cost, 6s. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from September to April. The Fowl-House.—In building a fowl-house, take care that it be, if possible, built against a wall or fence that faces the south, and thus insure its inmates against many cold winds, driving rains, and sleets they will otherwise suffer. Let the floor of the house slope half-an-inch to the foot from back to front, so as to insure drainage; let it also be close, hard, and perfectly smooth, so that it may be cleanly swept out. A capital plan is to mix a few bushels of chalk and dry earth, spread it over the floor, and pay a paviour’s labourer a trifle to hammer it level with his rammer. The fowl-house should be seven feet high, and furnished with perches at least two feet apart. The perches must be level, and not one above the other, or unpleasant consequences may ensue to the undermost row. The perches should be ledged (not fixed—just dropped into sockets, that they may be easily taken out and cleaned) not lower than five feet from the ground, convenient slips of wood being driven into the wall, to render the ascent as easy as possible. The front of the fowl-house should be latticed, taking care that the interstices be not wide enough even to tempt a chick to crawl through. Nesting-boxes, containing soft hay, and fitted against the walls, so as to be easily reached by the perch-ladder, should be supplied. It will be as well to keep by you a few portable doors, so that you may hang one before the entrance to a nesting-box, when the hen goes in to sit. This will prevent other hens from intruding, a habit to which some are much addicted. 1299.-BROILED FOWL AND MUSHROOM SAUCE. (Fr.—Poulet Grille aux Champignons.) Ingredients.—A large fowl, seasoning to taste, of pepper and salt, 2 handfuls of button mushrooms, 1 slice of lean ham, f pint of thickened gravy, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Cut the fowl into quarters, roast it until three-parts done, and