Duties of Sick-Nuvse. I54t mately called in, a period of doubt and hesitation, while disease has not yet de- veloped itself, when the patient must be attended to ; and, in these cases, some of the female servants of the establishment must give their attendance in the si-k- room. There are, also, slight attacks of cold, influenza, and accidents in a thou- sand forms, to which all are subject, where domestic nursing becomes a necess ty; where disease, though unattended with danger, is nevertheless accompanied by the nervous irritation incident to illness, and when all the attention of .he domestic nurse becomes necessary. 3481. Professional nurses need not only the qualifications alr:ady named in addition to their training : they should be physically strong, have good health, nerves well under control, andbe sure that nursing to them is a congeuial occupation. What a friend or relative can do for one she holds dear in the time of sickness, the taxing of strength, the loss of sleep that she makes light of in such a case, is no proof that she is fitted for the post of a professional nurse. The very self-sacrifice is against this, for a nurse must do what she does in a business-like way, she must not over-fatigue herself, should eat, drink and sleep well, and take regular exercise; while it should not be (as it is so often to the amateur) actual suffering to see pain inflicted when it is necessary that any operation be performed. She should be, like the surgeon, able to think of the future good instead of the present suffering. To some nervous, highly organised persons this would be impossible, and they are therefore unsuited for nursing as a business, although they may be the most devoted and patient attendants upon those they love. 3482. In the first stage of sickness, while doubt and a little perplexity hang over the household as to the THE SiCK-xuRst. nature of the sickness, there are some things about which no doubts exist; the patient’s room must be kept in a perfectly pure state, and arrangements made for proper attendance ; for the first canon of nursing, ac- cording to Florence Nightingale, its apostle, is to “keep the air the patient breathes as pure as the external air, without chilling him. ’ This can be done without any preparation which might alarm the patient; with proper windows, open fireplaces, and a supply of fuel, the room may be as fresh as it is outside, and kept at a temperature suitable for the patient’s state. 3483. Arrangement of the Sick-room.—Windows must be opened from above, and not from below, and draughts avoided ; cool air admitted beneath the patient’s head chills the lower strata and the floor. The careful nurse will keep the door shut when the window is open ; she will also take care that the patient is not placed between the door and the open window, nor between the open fire-place and the window. If confined to bed, she will see that the bed is placed in a thoroughly ventilated part of the room, but out of the current of air which is produced by the momentary opening of doors, bath. as well as out of the line of draught between the window and the open chimney, and that the temperature of the room is kept about 64°. Where it is necessary to admit air by the door, the windows should be closed ; but there are few circumstances in which good air can be obtained through the chamber door; through it, oc the