969 Strawberries. feeling the shells frequently have. Chestnuts, when boiled or roasted, should be served in a folded serviette. Seasonable.—Filberts from September to March, good' may be had after that time, but are generally shrivelled and dry. Walnuts and chestnuts from Sep- tember to January. Hazel Nut and Filbert.—The common hazel is the wild, and the filbert the cultivated state of the same tree. The hazel is found wild, not only in forests and hedges, in dingles and ravines, but occurs in extensive tracts in the more northern and mountainous parts of the country. It was formerly one of the most abundant of those trees which are indigenous in this island. It is seldom cultivated as a fruit-tree, though perhaps its nuts are superior in flavour to the others. The Spanish nuts imported are a superior kind, but they are somewhat oily and rather indigestible. Filberts, both the red and the white, and the cob-nut, are supposed to be merely varieties of the common hazel, which have been produced partly by the superiority of soil and climate, and partly by culture. They were originally- brought out of Greece to Italy, whence they have found their way to Holland, and from that country to England. It is supposed that, within a few miles of Maidstone, in Kent, there are more filberts grown than in all England besides : and it is from that place that thel.ondon market is supplied. The filbert is longer than the common nut, though of the same thickness, and has a larger kernel. The cob-nut is a still larger.variety, and is roundish. Filberts are more esteemed at the dessert than common nuts, and are generally eaten with salt. They are very free from oil, and disagree with few persons. DISH OF FILBERTS. 2072.—PINE OR MELON. Vine-leaves should first be placed upon the dish and the fruit stood upon them. If a pine does not stand upright, a slice may be cut to level it. A melon should have the stalk showing at the top, 2073.—STRAWBERRIES. Fine strawberries, arranged with the stalks inwards in pyramidical form, look exceedingly well. The inferior ones should be placed at the bottom of the dish, and the others put in rows, with the stalks down- wards, so that when the whole is com- pleted, nothing but the red part of the fruit is visible. The fruit should be gathered with rather long stalks, as there is then something to support it, and it can be placed more upright in each layer. A few of the finest should be reserved to crown the top. If to be served with cream the stalks should be removed. 2074.—A WORD ABOUT SAVOURIES. These, under the several names of Appetisans, Hors d’CEuvres, or Savouries, according to the place they take in the dinner menu, are rapidly gaining favour, and may generally be found at most good dinners, many gentlemen preferring them to sweets, and most liking to take them between the courses of meat or