Mushroom Pudding. 711 and herbs; season with pepper and salt; mix the whole with the eggs, well beaten, and the cream; fry in fritters together with 2 hard-boiled eggs cut in slices ; place the eggs round the fritters, and serve with brown sauce poured over the whole, and currant jelly. 1472.-LENTIL RISSOLES. Ingredients.—£ lb. of lentils, boiled or baked ; 4 oz. of butter, pepper and salt, nutmeg, pastry. Mode.—Cook the lentils until they are soft enough to mash, add the butter and seasoning. They ought not to be very dry. Roll the pastry very thin and cut it into rounds with a tea cup. Into each round put a little of the lentil mixture, fold it up, wet the edge, and stick it together. Egg-and-bread-crumb the rissoles, and fry them in oil. Serve hot with fried parsley. The whole lentils are the best to use for this purpose. 1473.-MACCARONI AND ONION FRITTERS. Ingredients.—4 oz. of onions, 2 oz. of maccaroni, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, 3 eggs, seasoning. Mode.—Stew the maccaroni in water, and when tender, drain and cut it in small pieces; add the onions, boiled and chopped, the bread-crumbs moistened with a little water, and the eggs well beaten ; season with pepper and salt; fry the fritters, and serve with brown sauce. 1474.—MUSHROOM PUDDING. Ingredients.—i£ lb. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, i teaspoonful of baking powder, cold water, x quart of mushrooms, picked and peeled ; pepper and salt. Mode.—Make a crust with the flour, powder and 5 oz. of the butter. Line a greased pudding-basin, put in the mushrooms with the rest of the butter, pepper and salt, and a little water. Finish off like a beef-pudding. Boil i4 hour. 1475— MACCARONI AND TOMATOES. Ingredients.—4 lb. of Naples maccaroni, salt and water, £ oz. of flour, 4 oz. of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, 1 onion stuck with 3 cloves. Mode.—Drop the maccaroni into fast-boiling water, with salt and the onion, and boil it for half an hour, or until it is tender, and drain the water off. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and the water (there should be about half a pint), let it boil, then stir in the sauce and