Children’s Clothing. 1537 room they should find healthy, active exercise, and games which try the muscles instead of the brains. ,, 3447; Children’s clothing should be a matter of care and thought with the mother and there is no question but it is a good deal of trouble to have the , t e °"es always properly clad. By properly clad, we mean not whether they u P^tlu yr°r handsomely dressed, but whether their clothing is just what it should be for the season and the health of each individual child. People are apt to think that what is good for one must be good for another ; whereas, although all children feel the effects of heat and cold more than we do (although they do not always show it), they are as different in temperament as we are, and clothing that is amply sufficient for one child, is quite inadequate to the wants of another. i.“emain requirements of children's clothing are lightness and warmth. Children should never be encumbered with clothes, nor should they ever be allowed to feel cold. In winter, flannel or merino may be worn next the skin by TWIRL THE TRENCHER, all children, and in summer by many, while night-dresses of it are thought fit for Thle j6St, k!nd of ni£ht garments for young children who are apt to throw off their bed clothing, are pyjamas. Light woollen materials are the w.; Tfu 3 ordinary wear, and their little garments should be easy and loose, so that their movements are not hindered and their limbs are free. 3448. Children’s food should be more nourishing than stimulating. They do not need much meat, nor require several courses to make a meal. The most important thing is to vary the food given, for children, like ourselves, need change boiled In fr°m joint may be flowed by one of only macaroni boiled in milk, the following day; when the children are young, soup or fish varied ? P*easant change; while puddings should be not only frequent, but more varied in flavour than those usually given to children. We are, of course, now only speaking generally, but all children cannot eat the same things, and the mother who values her children’s health must study, without pampering, their ElSd'LIS”ilk Sh°Uld b5 8iV“ ’° !’°n"S Child'e”' ^ “ iS 'hdr