1211 Raspberry Vinegar. the cask ; add more water to the peels and pulp when this is done, and repeat the same process every day for a week; it should take about a week to fill up the cask. Be careful to apportion the quantity as nearly as possible to the seven days, and to stir the contents of the cask each day. On the third day after the cask is full—that is, the tenth day after the commencement of making—the cask may be securely bunged down. This is a very simple and easy method, and the wine made according to it will be pronounced to be most excellent. There is no troublesome boiling, and all fermentation takes place in the cask. When the above directions are attended to, the wine cannot fail to be good. It should be bottled in 8 or 9 months, and it will be fit for use in a twelvemonth after the time of making. Ginger wine may be made in precisely the same manner, only, with the 9-gallon cask, for ginger wine, 2 lbs. of the best whole ginger, bruised, must be put with the sugar. It will be found convenient to tie the ginger loosely in a muslin bag. Time.—Altogether, 10 days to make it. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. per gallon. Sufficient for 9 gallons. Seasonable.—Make this in March, and bottle it the following January. 2712.—RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Ingredients.—To every 3 pints of the best vinegar allow 4f pints of freshly gathered raspberries ; to each pint of liquor allow 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 wineglassful of brandy. Mode.—Let the raspberries be freshly gathered ; pick them from the stalks, and put pint of them into a stone jar, pour three pints of the best vinegar over them, and let them remain for 24 hours, then strain the liquor over another pint of fresh raspberries. Let them remain another 24 hours, and the following day repeat the process for the third time; then drain off the liquor without pressing, and pass it through a jelly-bag (previously wetted with plain vinegar), into a stone jar. Add to every pint of the liquor 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar ; stir them together, and when the sugar is dissolved, cover the jar; set it upon the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour, removing the scum as fast as it rises; add to each pint a glass of brandy, bottle it, and seal the corks. This is an excellent drink in cases of fevers and colds; it should be diluted with cold water, according to the taste or requirements of the patient. Time.—To be boiled 1 hour. Average Cost, 15. per pint. Sufficient to make 2 quarts. • Seasonable.—Make this in July or August, when raspberries are most plentiful.