B lane-mange. 911 1943.-COMPOTE OF APRICOTS IN A RAISED CRUST. (Fr.—Flan d’Abricots.) (Sweet Entremets.) Ingredients.—f lb. of short crust, No. 1679, from 9 to 12 good-sized apricots, | pint of water, £ lb. of sugar. Mode.—Make a short crust by recipe No. 1679, and line a mould with it as directed in recipe No. 1926. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes ; halve the apricots, take out the stones, and simmer them in the syrup until tender ; watch them carefully, and take them up the moment they are done, for fear they break. Arrange them neatly in the flan or case; boil the syrup until reduced to a jelly, pour it over the fruit, and serve either hot or cold. Greengages, plums of all kinds, peaches, &c., may be done in the same manner, as also currants, rasp- berries, gooseberries, strawberries, &c.; but with the last-named fruits, a little currant-juice added to them will be found an improvement. Time.—Altogether 1 hour to bake the flan, about 10 minutes to sim- mer the apricots. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 1 entremet or side-dish. Seasonable in July, August and September. 1944.—ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE. (Fr.—Blanc-Manger.) (An inexpensive Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—4 heaped tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, i£ pint of milk, 3 laurel-leaves or the rind of ^ a lemon, sugar to taste. Mode.—Mix to a smooth batter the arrowroot with half a pint of the milk ; put the other pint on the fire, with laurel-leaves or lemon-peel, whichever may be preferred, and let the milk steep until it is well flavoured. Then strain the milk, and add it, boiling, to the mixed arrowroot; sweeten it with sifted sugar, and let it boil, stirring it all the time, till it thickens sufficiently to come from the saucepan. Grease a mould with pure salad-oil, pour in the blanc-mange, and, when quite set, turn it out on a dish, and pour round it a compote of any kind of fruit, or garnish it with jam. A tablespoonful of brandy, stirred in just before the blanc-mange is moulded, very much improves the flavour of this sweet dish. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, 6d., without the garnishing. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1945—BLANC MANGE. (Fr.—Blanc Manger aux Amandes.) (A Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—1 pint of new milk, i J oz. of gelatine, the rind of ^ a lemon- l lb. of loaf sugar, 10 bitter almonds, flavouring of vanilla. 1 pint of cream.