1510 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. perhaps, take food. As soon as the complaint is detected, no time should be lost in administering the following anti-spasmodic draught:— Mix together i^oz. of laudanum, 3 oz. of turpentine, 1 pint of linseed oil. If the symptoms do not abate shortly, apply hot fomentations to the belly and administer the following laxative ball :—6 drachms of Barbadoes aloes, 1 scruple of croton bean, 1 drachm of calomel. Take the horse off his corn; give him dry bran and cut hay, and keep him warm in a loose box. 3352—TREATMENT OF BROKEN-WINDED HORSES. This complaint is no doubt in some cases hereditary; but, in general, it is brought about by injudicious management, and especially by the use of mouldy hay. Owners of horses cannot be too particular about the hay they buy. Bad and indifferent hay is dear at any price, and no horse should be allowed to eat hay that has the slightest tinge of mould about it. Very much relief may be given to a broken-winded horse by proper feeding. Never give long hay. Let the food be the most nutritious possible, and that which will go into the smallest compass, as cut hay, and corn, and a few beans. Also be careful never to let a broken-winded horse have water within an hour after taking him out. The breathing will be much improved, and the horse will do its work more pleasantly if a ball of the following mixture be administered about half an hour before he takes a journey. Mix together equal parts of linseed-meal, hog’s lard, and tar; and give for a ball a piece about the size of a walnut, in paper. 3353 -CLIPPING OF HORSES. The value of clipping for horses cannot be overrated. Every horse that is worked at such a pace as to cause sweating should be clipped at the proper season. The best time for clipping is when the winter coat is “ well up," as it is termed. The sooner this is the case the better, for the autumn is proverbially a faint time for horses. The clipping spoke brush. lasts best the later in the year it is done, for the colder the weather the less the coat grows ; still, for the reason we have stated, the coat should be taken off as early as possible, and when it starts again, it should be kept down by singeing. Every one must appreciate the benefit of •clipping who knows the difficulty of getting a horse, with its winter coat on, dry after a journey. The labour is immense, and, what is worse, generally ineffectual; for the horse after the first drying will break out into a heat again, and in all probability be found quite wet in the morning.