142 Recipes for Soups. 284.—APPLE SOUP. (Fr.—Puree de Pommes.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of good boiling apples, l teaspoonful of white pepper, 6 cloves, cayenne or ginger to taste, 3 quarts of medium stock, No. 273. Mode.—Peel and quarter the apples, taking out their cores ; put them into the stock, stew them gently till tender. Rub the whole through a strainer or sieve, add the seasoning, give it one boil up, and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 10d. per quart. Seasonable from September to December. Sufficient for 10 persons. The Apple.—This useful fruit is mentioned in Holy Writ; and Homer describes it as valuable in his time. It was brought from the East by the Romans, who held it in the highest estimation. Indeed, some of the citizens of the “ Eternal City ” distinguished certain favourite apples by their names. Thus the Manlians were called after Manlius, the Claudians after Claudius, and the Appians after Appius. Others were designated after the country whence they were brought; as the Sidonians, the Epirotes and the Greeks. The best varieties are natives of Asia, and have, by grafting them upon others, been introduced into Europe. The crab, found in our hedges, is the only variety indigenous to Britain; therefore, for the introduction of other kinds we are, no doubt, indebted to the Romans. In the time of the Saxon heptarchy, both Devon and Somerset were distinguished as the apple country; and there are still existing in Here- fordshire some trees said to have been planted in the time of William the Conqueror. From that time to this, the varieties of this precious fruit have gone on increasing, and are now said to number upwards of 1,500. It is peculiar to the temperate zone, being found neither in Lap- land, nor within the Tropics. The best baking apples for early use are the Colvilles; the best for autumn are the Rennets and Pearmains ; and the best for winter and spring are Russets. The best table or eating apples, are the Margarets for early use ; the Kentish Codlin and summer Pearmain for summer; and for autumn, winter, or spring, the Dowton, golden and other pippins, as the Ribstone, with small Russets. As a food, the apple cannot be considered to rank high, as more than the half of it consists of water, and the rest of its properties are not the most nourish- ing. It is, however, a useful adjunct to other kinds of food, and, when apfle and blossom, cooked, is esteemed as slightly laxative. 285.—ARTICHOKE SOUP. (Fr.—Puree d’Artichauts.) Ingredients.—3 slices of lean bacon or ham, | a head of celery, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 3 oz. of butter, 4 lbs. of artichokes, 1 pint of boiling milk, or | pint of boiling cream, salt and cayenne to taste, 2 lumps of sugar, 2|- quarts of white stock, No. 278. Mode.—Put the bacon and vegetables, which should be cut into thin slices, into the stewpan with the butter. Cook these for 4 °f an hour, keeping them well stirred, but do not let them colour. Wash and pare the artichokes, and after cutting them into thin slices, add them, with a pint of stock, to the other ingredients. When these have gently stewed down to a smooth pulp, put in the remainder of the stock. Stir it well, adding the seasoning, and when it has simmered for five minutes, pass it through a strainer or sieve. Now pour it back into the stewpan, let it