1566 The Doctor, work properly, some of this duty of purifying and regulating the volume of the blood is thrown upon certain internal organs, such as the kidneys or intestines, and should these happen to be weak, diseased, or already overtasked, serious dis- turbance may be quickly brought on throughout the whole system. 3524. Warm Baths.—For purposes of cleanliness, the baths par excellence are those of warm water, this term being applied to those in which water of a temperature from 70° to 8o° is employed. Liquids of this degree of heat usually give a sensation of warmth when placed in contact with the human skin, and therefore avoid the disadvantages of the shock to our systems produced by a cold bath (that is, below 60"), and the exces- sive stimulation resulting from a hot bath, i.e., one of 85° and upwards. Soap, or alkali in some form, is necessary to remove the fatty matter poured out by the oil glands already described, and for most people there is nothing better than the old-fashioned white Castile. Many persons are apt to remain too long in a warm bath, and care should be taken to avoid this mistake, which has a very debilitating effect if often indulged in. The frequency with which a bath should be repeated varies somewhat with different individuals. A safe rule, to which of course there are sundry exceptions, would be to bathe the body twice a week in winter and every other day in summer, gradually increasing the frequency to a tri-weekly washing in winter and a daily one in summer, if experience proves that better health is secured by such a habit. It is very important to avoid being exposed to cool air after immersion in a warm bath, because mechanical obstructions to the outflow of perspiration from the pores being washed away, the amount of fluid poured out upon the skin, and consequently the cooling effect of evaporation from the cutaneous surface is greater, and the danger of becoming chilled much increased. The condition is accurately expressed by the popular saying that a warm bath “opens the pores,” although the exact mechanism by which this opening is accomplished is not so generally understood. Hence it follows that the best time for bathing, with those who are in robust health yet are liable to take cold, is in the evening, when they can go to bed at once, and so avoid all exposure for some hours afterwards. Invalids, however, and those who have delicate constitutions, will often And that they endure the exertion of taking a bath best about eleven o’clock in the morning, after digestion of the morning meal is accomplished, and yet before they are tired out with the fatigues of the day. 3525. Sot Baths by which are meant those of a temperature of from 85° to 105° Fahrenheit, are chiefly used in the treatment ~f diseases as powerful stimu- lants. Every parent should remember that a hot bath, causing free perspiration, promoted by wrapping up warm in bed with blankets, will often save children and adults severe attacks of illness, if promptly resorted to after exposure to cold or wet. 3526. Cold Baths are invaluable aids in promoting and preserving health, if properly used in suitable cases ; but may become dangerous agents, causing even fatal results, if employed by the wrong individuals, at improper times, or with excessive frequency. 3527. Sea-bathing is one of our best means of strengthening the system, either to prevent the development of actual disease or to restore the original vigour to a constitution recovering with difficulty from the effects of some debilitating malady. For the many delicate ladies and children who are not strong enough to endure the shock of cold sea-baths from the beach, bathing in warm salt water, taken comfortably at home, is invaluable.