270 Recipes for Cooking Fish. Mode.—Clear the fish carefully from the bone, and take away all skin, which gives an unpleasant flavour to the sauce. Make the sauce hot, lay in the fish to warm through, but do not let it boil. Garnish with croutons. Time.—5 minutes. Seasonable all the year. The Ancient Romans’ Estimate of Turbot. — As this luxurious people compared soles to partridges and sturgeons to peacocks, so they found a resemblance to turbot in the pheasant. In the time of Domitian, it was said one was taken of such dimensions as to require, in the imperial kitchen, a new stove to be erected, and a new dish to be made for it, in order that it might be cooked and served whole ; not even imperial Rome could furnish a stove or a dish large enough for the monstrous animal. Where it was caught, we are not aware ; but the turbot of the Adriatic Sea held a high rank in the “Eternal City.” 576.-TURBOT WITH CREAM SAUCE. (Fr.~Turbot a la Creme.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold turbot. For sauce: 2 cz. of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, a dessertspoonful of flour or cornflour, and a cupful of milk can be substi- tuted for the cream. Mode.—Clear away all skin and bone from the flesh of the turbot, which should be done when it comes from table, as it causes less waste when trimmed hot. Cut the flesh into nice square pieces, as equally as possible; put the butter into a stewpan, let it melt, and add the cream and seasoning ; let it just simmer for one minute, but not boil. Lay in the fish to warm, and serve it garnished with croutons or a paste border. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of cold salmon may be dressed in this way, and the above mixture may be served in a vol-au-vent. 577—TURBOT AU GRATIN. Ingredients.—Remains of cold turbot, b£chamel {see Sauces), or any good white sauce ; bread-crumbs, butter. Mode.—Cut the flesh of the turbot into small dice, carefully freeing it from all skin and bone. Put them into a stewpan, and moisten with 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls of bechamel. Let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil. Spread the mixture on a dish, cover with finely-grated browned bread-crumbs, and place small pieces of butter over the top. Brown it ’ll the oven, or with a salamander. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Seasonable at any time.