Iced Apple Pudding. 845 Mode.—Stone and shred the raisins rather small, chop the suet finely, and rub the bread until all lumps are well broken; pound the spice to powder, cut the candied peel into thin shreds, and mix all these ingredients well together, adding the sugar. Beat the eggs to a strong froth, and as they are beaten, drop into them the essence of lemon and essence of almonds; stir these to the dry ingredients, mix well, and add the brandy. Tie the pudding firmly in a cloth, and boil it for 6 hours at the least: 7 or 8 hours would be still better for it. Serve with boiled custard, or red- currant jelly, or brandy sauce. Time.—6 to 8 hours. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1788.—ICED PUDDING. (Fr.—Poudingglace,^ Nesselrode.) (Parisian Recipe.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of sweet almonds, 2 oz. of bitter ones, f lb. of sugar, 8 eggs, 1^ pint of milk. Mode.—Blanch and dry the almonds thoroughly in a cloth, then pound them in a mortar until reduced to a smooth paste ; add to these the well- beaten eggs, the sugar and milk; stir these ingredients over the fire until they thicken, but do not allow them to boil; then strain and put the mixture into the freezing-pot; surround it with ice, and freeze it as directed in recipe No. 1789. When quite frozen, fill an iced-pudding mould, put on the lid, and keep the pudding in ice until required for table ; then turn it out on the dish, and garnish it with a compote of any fruit that may be preferred, pouring a little over the top of the pudding. This pudding may be flavoured with vanilla, Cura5oa or Maraschino. Time.—\ hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable.—Served all the year round. 1789.-ICED APPLE PUDDING. (French Recipe, after Careme.) Ingredients.--2 dozen apples, a small pot of apricot jam, £ lb. of sugar, t Seville orange, ^ pint of preserved cherries, J lb. of raisins, 1 oz. of citron, 2 oz. of almonds, 1 gill of Curajoa, x gill of Maraschino, 1 pint of crearo- ICED-PUDDING MOULD.