Women Servants’ Dufies. i|96 using the common yellow soap, which should be rinsed off immediately. One article should be washed at a time, and rinsed out immediately before any others are wetted. When washed thoroughly, they should be rinsed in succession, in soft water, in which common salt has been dissolved, in the proportion of a hand- ful to three or four gallons, and afterwards wrung gently, as soon as rinsed, with as little twisting as possible, and then hung out to dry. Delicate-coloured articles should not be exposed to the sun, but dried in the shade, using clean lines and wooden pegs. 3315. Woollen articles are liable to shrink, unless the flannel has been well shrunk before making up. This liability is increased where very hot water is used : cold water would thus be the best to wash woollens in ; but as this would not remove the dirt, luke- warm water, about 85°, and yellow soap, are recommended. When thoroughly washed in this, they require a good deal of rinsing in cold water, to remove the soap. Greasy cloths, which have soaked all night in the liquid described, should be now washed out with soap-and- water as hot as the hands can bear, first in one water, and rinsed out in a second (soda will be needed in the water used), and afterwards boiled for two hours in water in which a little soda is dissolved. When taken out, they should be rinsed in cold water, and laid out or hung up to dry. 3316. Silks and Stuffs.—Silk handkerchiefs require to be washed alone. When they contain snuff, they should be soaked by themselves in lukewarm water two or three hours ; they should be rinsed out and put to soak with the others in cold water for an hour or two; then washed in luke- warm water, being soaped as they are washed. If this does not remove all stains, they should be washed a second time in similar water, and when finish- ed, rinsed in soft water in which a handful of common salt has been dissolved. In washing stuff or woollen dresses, the band at the waist and the lining at the bottom should be removed, and wherever it is gathered into folds; and, in furniture, the hems and gatherings, A black silk WRINGING MACHINE. MANGLING MACHINE.