314 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 686.—CELERY SAUCE. (Fr.—Pur6e de Celeri.) (For Boiled Turkey, Poultry, &c.) Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, 1 pint of white stock, No. 275; 2 blades of mace, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs ; thickening of butter and flour, or arrowroot, £ pint of cream or milk, lemon-juice. Mode.—Boil the celery in stock with mace and herbs till tender. Then rub the celery through a sieve, add a thickening of butter kneaded with flour, or, what is still better, with arrowroot; just before serving, put in the cream, boil it up, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. If necessary, add a seasoning of salt and white pepper. Time.—25 minutes to boil the celery. Average Cost, IS. id. Sufficient, this quantity, for a boiled turkey. This sauce may be made brown by using gravy instead of white stock, and flavouring it with mushroom ketchup or other sauce. Arrowroot.—This nutritious fecula is obtained from the roots of a plant which is cultivated in both the East and West Indies. When the roots are about a year old, they are dug up, and, after being well washed, are beaten to a pulp, which is afterwards, by means of water, separated from the fibrous part. After being passed through a sieve, once more washed, and then suffered to settle, the sediment is dried in the sun, when it has become arrowroot. The best is obtained from the West Indies, but a large quantity of what is sold in London is adulterated with potato-starch. As a means of know- ing arrowroot when it is good, it may be as well to state that the genuine article, when formed into a jelly, will remain firm for three or four days whilst the adulterated will become as thin as milk in the course of twelve hours. ARROWROOT. 687.—CELERY AND WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Celeri.) Ingredients.—3 heads of celery, 1 onion, 1 blade of mace, whole pepper, salt, 1 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, yolk of 1 egg, juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Trim the roots and cut them into 6-inch pieces, wash them well and tie them together with string. Put them into a saucepan with the onion, mace, pepper and salt and sufficient boiling water to cover them. Let them boil till quite tender, then drain, remove the string and serve with the following sauce poured over. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan and mix the flour with it, add as much water, in which the celery was boiled, as necessary, beat the yolk of egg with the lemon-juice and strain it into the sauce and remove from the Are at once. Time.—25 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for a boiled fowl.