Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c, 944 which so much has been said, and which he imagines to be as wholesome as it was agreeable. Here follows the recipe :— 2016.—OMELETTE AU THON.* Mode.—Take for 6 persons, the roes of 2 carp; bleach them, by putting them, for 5 minutes, in boiling water slightly salted. Take a piece of fresh tunny about the size of a hen’s egg, to which add a small shalot already chopped ; hash up together the roe and the tunny, so as to mix them well, and throw the whole into a saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of very good butter : whip it up until the butter is melted. This constitutes the specialty of the omelet. Take a second piece of butter, a discretion, mix it with parsley and herbs, place it in a long-shaped dish destined to receive the omelet ; squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and place it on hot embers. Beat up 12 eggs (the fresher the better); throw up the saute of roe and tunny, stirring it so as to mix all well together; then make your omelet in the usual manner, endeavouring to turn it out long, thick and soft. Spread it carefully on the dish prepared for it, and serve at once. The dish ought to be reserved for the recherche dejeuners, or for assemblies where amateurs meet who know how to eat well; washed down with a good old wine, it will work wonders. Note.—The roe and the tunny must be beaten up (saute) without allowing them to boil, to prevent their hardening, which would prevent their mixing well with the eggs. The dish should be hollowed towards fhe centre, to allow the gravy to concentrate, that it may be helped with a spoon. The dish ought to be slightly heated, otherwise the cold china will extract all the heat from the omelet. * An American writer says he has followed this recipe, substituting pike, shad, &c., in the place pf carp, and can recommend all these also, with a quiet conscience. Any fish, indeed, may be used with success. 2017.—EGG AND OYSTER OMELET. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 6 large oysters, £ a breakfastcupful of flour, £ a pint of milk, salt, pepper, 2 oz. of butter or lard. Mode.—Well beat the eggs, seasoning to taste, chop the oysters into small pieces after removing the beards ; make a batter with the flour and milk, and stir in the eggs and oysters. Put the omelet-pan on the fire with the butter or lard in it, and as soon as the fat is boiling pour in the batter. Time.—4 to 6 minutes. Average Cost, with fresh oysters, is. 3d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable, September to April. 2018.—HAM OMELET. (TV.—Omelette au Jambon.) (A delicious Breakfast Dish.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, i saltspoonful of pepper, 2 tablf spoonfuls of minced ham.