Duties of the Valet. *4^9 be in their places, the razors properly set and stropped, and hot water ready for A valet often accompanies his master when shooting, when he would carry the extra gun and load for him. This would be almost certain to be part of his duties if his master happened to be old or at all infirm, as so many of those gentlemen who keep valets often are. Many valets also wait upon their master at dinner, standing behind his chair and devoting their attention to him alone. 3256. Shaving.—Gentlemen generally prefer performing the operation or shaving themselves, but a valet should be prepared to do it if required ; and he should besides, be a good hairdresser. Shaving over, he has to brush the hair beard and moustache, where that appendage is encouraged arranging the whole simply and gracefully, according to the age and style of countenance. Every fortnight, or three weeks at the utmost, the hair should be cut, and the points of the whiskers trimmed as often as required. A good valet will now present the various articles of the toilet as they are wanted; afterwards the body- linen, neck-tie, which he will put on, if required, and afterwards, waistcoat, coat and boots, in suit- able order, and carefully brushed and polished. Having thus seen his master dressed, if he is about to go out, the valet will hand him his cane, gloves and hat, the latter well brushed on the outside with a soft brush, and wiped inside with a clean handkerchief, re- spectfully attend him to the door, open it for him, and receive his boot-stand. last orders for the day. He now proceeds to put everything in order in the dressingroom, cleans the combs and brushes, and brushes and folds up any clothes that may be left about the room, and puts them away in the drawers. 3257. The Wardrobe.—Gentlemen are sometimes indifferent as to their clothes and appearance ; it is the valet’s duty, in this case, where his master per- mits it, to select from the wardrobe such things as are suitable for the occasion, so that he may appear with scrupulous neatness and cleanliness ; that his linen and neck-tie, where that is white or coloured, are unsoiled ; and where he is not accustomed to change them every day, that the cravat is turned, and even ironed, to remove the crease of the previous fold. The coat collar—which, where the hair is worn long, is occasion- ally greasy—should also be examined; a careful valet will correct this by re- moving the spots day by day as they appear, first by moistening the grease-spots with a little rectified spirits of wine or spirits of hartshorn, which has a renovating effect, and the smell of which soon disappears, dhe grease is dissolved and removed by gentle scraping. The ■ grease removed, add a little more of the spirit, and rub with a piece of clean cloth ; finish by adding a few drops more ; rub it with the palm of the hand, in the direction of the grain of the cloth, and it will be clean and glossy as the rest of the garment. It is the valet’s duty to see that his master’s ward- HAT IRON. CLOTHES BRUSH.