1514 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. 3363.—TO BRUSH CLOTHES. Brushing clothes is a very simple but very necessary operation. Fine clothes require to be brushed lightly, and with rather a soft brush, except where mud is to be removed, when a hard one is necessary, being pre- viously beaten lightly to dislodge the dirt. Lay the garment on a table, and brush it in the direction of the nap. Having brushed it properly turn the sleeves back to the collar, so that the folds may come at the elbow-joints ; next turn the lapels or sides back over the folded sleeves ; then lay the skirts over level with the collar, so that the crease may fall about the centre, and double one half over the other, so as the fold comes in the centre of the back. RECIPES FOR THE LADY’S MAID. 3364.-TREATMENT OF THE HAIR. The Germans, who are noted for the length and quantity of their hair, recommend the following treatment:—Twice a month wash the head with a quart of soft water, in which a handful of bran has been boiled, and in which a little white soap has been dissolved. Next rub the yolk of an egg, slightly beaten, into the roots of the hair, let it remain a few minutes, and wash it off thoroughly with pure water, rinsing the head well. Wipe and rub the hair dry with a towel, and comb the hair up from the head, parting it with the fingers. If the hair has been very dry before the washing, a little pomatum should be used. 3365— POMADE. (.Excellent.) Ingredients.—1 marrow bone, 4 pint of oil, 4 pennyworth of ci- tronella. Mode.—Take the marrow out of the bone, place it in warm water, let it get almost to boiling point, then let it cool and pour the water away; repeat this three times, until the marrow is thoroughly “ fined.” Beat the marrow to a cream with a silver fork, stir the oil in drop by drop, beating all the time ; when quite cold, add the citronella, pour into jars and cover down. 3366.-TO MAKE POMADE FOR THE HAIR. Ingredients.—I lb. of lard, 2 pennyworth of castor-oil; scent. Mode.—Let the lard be unsalted ; beat it up well; then add the castor-oil, and mix thoroughly together with a knife, adding a few drops