1584 The Doctor. fruits, long continued costiveness, cold, or it may be due, as in painter’s colic, to poisoning by lead. Treatment.—If caused by some indigestible article of food, a dose of castor oil had better be given, say a tablespoonful for an adult, to which from ten to fifteen drops of laudanum may be added. If the pain is very severe, a turpentine stupe may be applied over the abdomen. The following mixture will be found very useful in such cases : Solution of the muriate of morphia, two drachms ; spirit of chloroform, half an ounce ; water to make two ounces. A teaspoonful to be given every two hours till the pain is relieved. 3554. Constipation is a symptom which may be due to disease of the bowels, or to an imperfect performance of their function. Any disease, as ulcera- tion or cancer, which obstructs the passage of the food, will cause constipation, and any condition which produces a paralysed or sluggish state of the muscular wails of the bowel will likewise cause constipation by removing or interfering with the propelling power. With rare exceptions, people can never enjoy good, health while they suffer from constipation : liver complaint, dyspepsia, headache, vertigo and piles are some of the direct results of constipation, and they give rise to a great amount of misery. “ Of all the causes which originate and establish habitual constipation,” says a writer on this subject, “there is none certainly so general as inattention to the calls of nature ” Men of literary pursuits are naturally more prone to the error of inattention to regular times of relieving the bowels than practical men ; so every variety of general and local disorder of the stomach and bowels is more prevalent among them. Ladies often fall into the same error as literary men in the neglect of regularity. Habitual constipation is not unusual in women after a confinement, in people of a nervous temperament and in those who lead a seden- tary life ; those, also, who are in the habit of taking opening medicine, pills, &c., are liable to it. In such cases an altered diet will nearly always suffice. Treatment.—By the aid of diet much may often be accomplished. A glass of cold water taken on rising in the morning, will, in some, promote an action of the bowels. A light breakfast to those who are sedentary will favour this action. Coarse brown or bran bread is very useful; figs, prunes and ripe fruits are also beneficial; exercise in the open air and a cold sponge in the morning are also helpful. An occasional aperient may be required, and then Friedrichshall water, in the dose of a wineglassful taken fasting may be employed. In children a similar treatment may be adopted, with such modification as the age will require ; while in infants an altered diet and a little magnesia occasionally, mixed with the milk, will suffice for a cure. Clysters or Enemata are now in frequent use to procure evacuations of the bowel. It is not, however, advisable to use them daily. Where they are employed, care should be taken to see that the fluid is bland in nature, as barley-water, thin gruel, linseed tea, or milk and water. Warm water used alone has a tendency to injure the mucous membrane of the bowel. The injection of a teaspoonful of glycerine is a simple and efficacious means of relieving the bowels. 3555. Consumption. —This is that disease to which, technically, the name of Phthisis is applied. By it is meant that form of lung disease, where, first of all, there is a deposit of new material in the substance of the lung. After a time this softens and breaks down. It is expectorated and leaves behind cavities. This process is accompanied by fever of a peculiar kind, and general wasting of the-body. The processes which lead to this deposit are inflammation of the lung substance and tubercle. Most frequently the two processes are- ■ associated, for the deposit of the tubercle sets up inflammation and its conse- quences. The disease may assume a very acute form, or it may steal on in-