1236 Recipes for Invalid Cookery. cool place until required. The same, if wanted quite plain, is done by merely omitting the vegetables, salt and clove; the butter cannot be objectionable, as it is taken out in skimming. This beef-tea is only suit- able for convalescents, and for them it is wise to vary the flavouring as much as possible every day. The above flavourings can be used in turns with a stick of celery, a piece of carrot, a bunch of herbs, possibly even a little sauce, or a piece of fresh tomato. Time.—| to \ hour. Average Cost, 8d. per pint. Sufficient.—Allow 1 lb. of beef to make 1 pint of good beef-tea. Note.—The meat left from beef-tea may be boiled a little longer, and pounded, with spices, &c., for potting. It makes a very nice breakfast dish. Dr. Christison says that “ every one will be struck with the readmes with which certain classes of patients will often take diluted meat-juice, or beef-tea repeatedly, when they refuse all other kinds of food.” This is particularly remarkable in cases of gastric fever, in which he says, little or nothing else besides beef-tea, or diluted meat-juice, has been taken for weeks, or even months; and yet a pint of beef-tea contains scarcely J oz. of anything but water. The result is so striking that he asks, “ What is its mode of action ? Not simple nutriment; | oz. of the most nutritive material cannot nearly replace the daily wear and tear of the tissue in anylcircum- stances." Possibly, he says, it belongs to anew denomination of remedies. Liebig's “ Extract of Meat ” is a most invaluable friend in cases of extreme prostration. Care should be taken in preparing it not to make it too strong the first time of giving it, lest the patient should dislike the “ meaty ” flavour. It must be prepared with boiling water, or it will taste raw. It is an excellent stimulant. 2784.—BAKED BEEF-TEA. Ingredients—1 lb. of fleshy beef, pint of water, | saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Cut the beef into small square pieces, after trimming off all the fat, and put it into a baking-jar, with the above proportion of water and salt; cover the ja'r well, place it in a warm, but not hot, oven, and bake for 3 or 4 hours. When the oven is very fierce in the daytime, it is a good plan to put the jar in at night, and let it remain till the next morning, when beef-tea tray. the tea will be done. It should be strained, and put by in a cool place until wanted. It may also be flavoured with an onion, a clove, and a few sweet herbs, &c.,when the stomach is sufficiently strong to take these. Time.—3 or 4 hours, or to be left in the oven all night. Average Cost, 6d. per pint. Sufficient.—Allow I lb. of meat for 1 pint of good beef-tea. 2785.—BEEF-TEA IN HASTE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of lean beef, 1 pint of water. Mode.—With a sharp knife scrape the beef into fibres ; this should be done on a board. Place the scraped meat into a delicately-clean cup