Reasons for Cooking. 103 kitchen. Each operation was once carried out according to the fancy of the individual operating. Experience, not only the best but the only teacher, taught. There were a number of isolated experiments, some repeated or handed down until they became traditions, But there was little or no generalisation of tbs facts, and there was arbitrary declaration instead of reasonable conviction. In cookery books of twenty years ago the reader is bidden to do a thing’ at one time, and leave it undone on a precisely similar occasion. Delicate gradations of heat, frimometers, even thermometers, are unknown. Water boiled or sim- mered, was lukewarm and cold, as if the four words comprehended all the varia- tions of temperature, or at any rate were fixed points having magical effect upon every substance used as food. Only a few—-a very few—scientific facts have been as yet applied to everyday cookery. The genealogy of each might pro- bably be traced from the treatise to the lecture, thence to one book, now to all It is curious also to see that there are some processes in cookery for which everyone now assigns a reason, while others, equally common, everyone is content to follow unreasoning. It is safe to assert that supporting or condemning all such processes there is scientific fact, and if every intelligent cook would try to find out the reason for what is done, our knowledge would soon emerge from its present chaotic condition. 210. Reasons for Cooking.— Food is prepared and cooked for five reasons: (!.■) To make it pleasant to eye and taste. (2.) To make mastica- tion easy. (3.) ^o facilitate and hasten digestion. (4.) To select right food in right proportions. (5.) Because of the economy of warm food. The eye does half the eating. It may be said that the first contradicts the third. But apart from the purely aesthetic value of an agreeable meal, a well spread table, and certainly no one will wish that any pleasure or beauty should be gratuitously foregone, there remain many solid arguments for reason number one. “The eye does half the eating.” The street boy who flattens his nose against the pastrycook’s window-pane while his mouth waters at the sight of the good things within ; the animal who is shown the food he may not eat before he is killed to produce pepsine; the starving man whose pangs are even sharper when he smells someone else’s good dinner, all are so many witnesses that the sight and smell of food cause the digestive juices to flow more abundantly. Pleasant flavours are a necessary of diet. No man could be nourished on tasteless food, though arranged on the most approved scientific basis. No man can live healthily on a monotonous diet, though there may be nothing wanting from the point of view of chemical analysis. The health of the inmates of public institutions has oyer and over again shown noticeable improvement by reason of some change in the dietary, not implying greater expenditure nor greater nourishment, nor even alteration of constituents. As in all human affairs there are facts to be reckoned with that science cannot foretell or explain. Mastication acts mechanically in subdividing food and so exposing a greater surface to the action of the digestive juices with which it afterwards comes in contact. It acts chemically by reason of the digestive power of saliva over starch. Among animals there are some gramnivora that spend a large part of their time in chewing their food, the flow of saliva being very profuse; there are others, chiefly carnivora, that bolt food whole, and afterwards digest at leisure. Prepared food is more or less divided, so that to some extent mastica- tion is superseded. For the rest, in the kitchen starch is hydrated fibre softened or made brittle, dough vesiculated, albumen coagulated, indigestible matter removed Anyone may perceive how impossible it would be to masticate a mouthful of flour, and how raw meat would clog the teeth. Hurrying over our meals as we do, we should fare badly if all the grinding and subdividing; of human food had to be accomplished by human teeth.