718 Vegetarian Recipes. and stir the paste to a proper consistency for rolling. Fold it over and roll it out twice or thrice, and bake immediately. Note.—I copy (again from Mrs. Brotherton) the three following recipes for well-known puddings from which the suet is omitted 1502. —PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients.—l lb. of flour, ^ lb. of currants or raisins, £ lb. of grated carrots, ^ lb. of grated potatoes, \ lb. of butter, 4 oz of sugar, salt, spice. Mode.—Mix it all together, and boil it in a buttered basin hour. Serve with sweet sauce. 1503. -PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, I lb. of currants, -g- lb. of sultanas, 4 0z. of butter, 3 eggs, grated rind of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Mode .—Mix the powder with the flour, rub in the butter and add the currants and raisins, the lemon peel finely grated, a little nutmeg, and the eggs well beaten. Put it in a buttered basin, boil or steam 4 hours, and serve with sweet sauce. 1504.-MINCE-MEAT. Ingredients.—6 lemons, £ lb. of apples, 1 lb. of raisins, weighed when picked and stoned; 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of sugar, lb. of fresh butter, 2 oz. of candied citron, 2 oz. of candied orange. Mode.—Grate off the yellow rind, cut the lemons in two, and squeeze out the juice, boil the rinds in spring water till tender, but not soft, changing the water four or five times to take out the bitterness, and putting a large tablespoonful of salt in the water in which they are first boiled; when done, drain the water from them, and take out the seeds and skins, then chop them with the raisins in a wooden bowl; when finely chopped add the currants, sugar, the apples (previously prepared as for sauce), the grated rind of the lemons, the juice, half a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, a small teaspoonful of mace, a small teaspoonful of cinnamon, 12 or 15 drops of almond flavour, the candied orange and citron cut in thin slices, and, lastly, the butter melted and stirred well in. 1505.—GINGERBREAD PUDDING. Ingredients.—i lb. of flour, I- lb. of treacle, 2 oz. of butter, 1 tea* spoonful of baking powder, ^ teaspoonful of ginger, 1 egg, salt. Mode.—Mix the baking powder and ginger with the flour, rub in the butter, add the treacle and the egg, well beaten, and mix all together; flour a pudding cloth, put in the mixture, tie it up, and boil hour. Serve with butter sauce.