Grey Mullet. 239 Mode.—Clean the fish, and fillet it; scald the herbs, chop them fine, and put them with the butter and stock into a stewpan. Lay in the mackerel, and simmer very gently for 10 minutes; take them out, and put them on a hot dish. Dredge in a little flour, add the other ingredients give one boil, and pour it over the mackerel. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, is. 10d. Seasonable from April to July. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—Fillets of mackerel may be covered with egg and bread-crumbs, and fried a nice brown. Serve with maitre d'hotel sauce and plain melted butter. The Voracity of the Mackerel —The voracity of this fish is very great, and, from their im- mense numbers, they are bold in attacking objects of which they might otherwise be expected to have a wholesome dread. Pontoppidan relates an anecdote of a saiior belonging to a ship lying in one of the harbours on the coast of Norway, who, having gone into the sea to bathe, was sud- denly missed by his companions ; in the course of a few minutes, however, he was seen on the surface, with great numbers of mackerel clinging to him by their mouths. His comrades hastened in a boat to his assistance, but when they had struck the fishes from him and got him up, they found that lie was so severely bitten that he shortly afterwards expired. 301.—PICKLED MACKEREL. (Fr.—Maquereau Marines.) Ingredients.—12 peppercorns, 2 bay-leaves, £ a pint of vinegar, 4 mackerel. Mode.—Boil the mackerel as in recipe No. 498, and lay them in a dish ; take half the liquor they were boiled in ; add as much vinegar, pepper- corns and bay-leaves ; boil for 10 minutes, and when cold, pour over the fish. A good way of serving cold fish. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Mackerel Garum—This brine, so greatly esteemed by the ancients, was manufactured from various kinds of fishes. When mackerel was employed, a few of them were placed in a small vase, with a large quantity of salt, which was well stirred, and then left to settle for some hours. On the following day, this was put into an earthen pot, which was uncovered, and placed in a situation to get the rays of the sun. At the end of two or three months, it was hermetically sealed, after having added to it a quantity of old wine, equal to one-third of the mixture. 502.-GREY MULLET. (TV.—Mulet.) Ingredients.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—If the fish be very large, it should be laid in warm water, and gradually brought to a boil; if small, put it in hot water, salted in the above propor- tion. Serve with anchovy sauce and plain melted butter. Time.—According to size, ^ to f hour. Average Cost, 4d. to is. Seasonable all the year round, but best from July to October. The Grey Mullet.—This is quite a different fish from the red mullet, is abundant on the sandy coasts of Great Britain, and ascends rivers for miles. On the south coast it is very plentiful, and is considered a fine fish. It improves more than any other salt-water fish when kept in ponds.