Mashed Potatoes. n I temperature being always below that of active vegetation, they will not sprout; while, not being above one or two degrees below freezing-point, the tubers will not be frost-bitten. Another mode is to scoop out the eyes with a very small scoop, and keep the roots buried in earth ; a third mode is to destroy the vital principle, by kiln-drying, steaming or scalding; a fourth is to bury them so deep in dry soii.that no change of temperature will reach them ; and thus, being without air thej will remain upwards of a year without vegetating. 1612.-POTATOES WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. (Fr.—Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—Potatoes, salt and water; to every 6 potatoes allow 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Wash the potatoes clean and boil them in salt and water by recipe No. 1602; when they are done, drain them, let them cool; then peel and cut the potatoes into thick slices ; if these are too thin, they will break in the sauce. Put the butter into a stewpan with the pepper, salt, gravy and parsley; mix these ingredients well together, put in the potatoes, shake them two or three times, that they may be well covered with the sauce, and, when quite hot through squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve. Time.—J to $ hour to boil the potatoes ; 10 minutes for them to heat in the sauce. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable all the year. 1613.—MASHED POTATOES. (Fr.—Puree de Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—Potatoes; to every lb. of mashed potatoes allow 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, salt to taste. Mode.—Boil the potatoes in their skins; when done, drain them, and let them get thoroughly dry by the side of the fire ; then peel them, and, as they are peeled, put them into a clean saucepan, and with a large fork beat them to a light paste; add butter, milk and salt in the above pro- portion, and stir all the ingredients well over the fire. When thoroughly hot, dish them lightly, and draw the fork backwards over the potatoes to make the surface rough, and serve. When dressed in this manner, they may be browned at the top with a salamander or before the fire. Some cooks press the potatoes into moulds, then turn them out, and brown them in the oven ; this is a pretty mode of serving, but it makes them heavy. In whatever way they are sent to table, care must be taken to have them quite free from lumps. Time.—From \ to \ hour to boil the potatoes Average Cost, id. per lb,