Mayonnaise Sauce. 333 Note.—This sauce originally took its name as being similar to that which the French sailor (matelot) employed as a relish to the fish he caught and eat. In some cases, cider and perry were substituted for the wine. The Norman matelotes were very celebrated. There is a difference between the cherry-laurel and the classic laurel (Lawns nobilus), the former only being used for culinary purposes. The latter beautiful evergreen was consecrated by the ancients to priests and heroes, and used in their sacrifices. “A crown of bay” was the earnestly-desired reward for great enterprises, and for the display of uncommon genius in oratory or writing. It was more particularly sacred to Apollo, because according to the fable, the nymph Daphne was changed into a laurel-tree. The ancients believed, too, that the laurel had the power of communicating the gift of prophecy, as well as poetic genius; and, when they wished to procure pleasant dreams, would place a sprig under the pillow of their bed. It was the symbol, too, of victory, and it was thought that the laurel could never be struck by lightning. From this word comes that of “laureate;’’ Alfred Tennyson being the present Poet-Laureate, crowned with laurels as the first of living bards. 733 — MATELOTE SAUCE. (For Salmon, &c.) Ingredients.—30 button onions or shalots, i lb. of butter, 4 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 glass of sherry, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, x gill of gravy, No. 615 ; £ pint of water, salt, pepper, sugar. Mode.-—Peel the onions and put them, with the sugar, into a 2-pint saucepan and shake them over the fire, adding the butter gradually. When they are getting brown pour in the sherry and flour and stir gently with a small wooden spoon. When it boils pour in the gravy and water and simmer till the onions are soft, then season with salt and pepper and a little sugar. Strain and serve. This sauce should be of a rich brown colour, so that browning must be added if required. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 734-MAYONNAISE. (A Sauce or Salad-Dressing for Cold Chicken, Meat, and other Cold Dishes.) Ingredients.—The yolks of 2 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, 4 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, salt and white pepper to taste ; 1 tablespoonful ol white stock, No. 278, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Mode.—Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, with a seasoning of pepper and salt; have ready the above quantities of oil and vinegar, in separate vessels ; add them very gradually to the eggs ; continue stirring and rubbing the mixture with a wooden spoon, as herein consists the secret of having a nice smooth sauce. It cannot be stirred too frequently, and it should be made in a very cool place, or, if ice is at hand, it should be mixed over it. When the vinegar and oil are well incorporated with the eggs, add the stock and cream, stirring all the time, and it will then be ready for use. If cream is not used add so much more oil. It becomes thicker by keeping. For a fish Mayonnaise, this sauce may be coloured with lobster-spawn.