148 Recipes for Soups. them the soup, and allow them to simmer till tender; say for nearly an hour. Press them through a strainer with the soup, and add salt and cayenne if required. Boil the whole gently for 5 minutes, skim well, and serve as hot as possible. Another and easier way is to grate the raw carrots on a bread-grater or with a knife, add them to the boiling stock, and boil 16 minutes. A teacupful of boiled rice or of fine breadcrumbs is often put in 5 minutes before serving. Time.—1J hours. Average Cost, is. per quart. The Carrot.—There is a wild carrot which grows in England; but it is white and small, and not much esteemed. The garden carrot in general use was introduced in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and. was, at first, so highly esteemed, that the ladies wore leaves of it in their head-dresses. It is of great value in the culinary art, especially for soups and stews. It can be used also for beer instead of malt: and, in distillation, it yields a large quantity of spirit. The carrot is proportionately valuable as it has more of the red than the yellow part. There is a large red variety much used by the farmers for colouring butter. As a garden vegetable, it is what is called the orange-carrot that is usually cultivated. As a fattening food for cattle, it is excellent: but for man it is indigestible, on account of its fibrous matter. Of T.„A Ann carrot i kavfs I'°°° Parts> 95 consist of sugar, and 3 of starch—The accompany- ' ' ' ing'cut represents a pretty winter ornament, obtained by placing a cut from the top of the carrot-root in a shallow vessel of water, when the young leaves spring forth into a charming freshness and fulness. 298.—CARROT AND LENTIL SOUP.-(Fy.-Cr6cy aux Lentilles.) Ingredients.—4 carrots, 2 sliced onions, 1 cut lettuce and chervil; 2 02. butter, 2 pints of lentils, the crumbs of 2 French rolls, half a teacup- ful of rice, 4 quarts of medium stock, No. 273. Mode.— Put the vegetables with the butter in the stewpan, and let them simmer 5 minutes; then add the lentils, which should have been soaked all night, and 1 pint of the stock, and stew gently for half an hour. Now fill it up with the remainder of the stock, let it boil another hour, and put in the crumb of the rolls. When well soaked, rub all through a tammy. Have ready the rice boiled ; pour the soup over this, and serve. Seasonable all the year. Time.—if hours. Average Cost, \id. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Lentil.—(Fr. LentiUe.) This belongs to the leguminous or pulse kind of vegetables, which rank above the corn plants in their nutritive properties. The lentil is a variety of the bean tribe, but in England is not used as much as it ought to be for human food, although it has become more common of late. On the Continent it is cultivated for soups, as well as for other preparations for the table ; and among the presents which David received from Shobi, as recounted in the Scriptures, were beans lentils and parched pulse. Among the Egyptians it was extensively used, and among the Greeks, the Stoics had a maxim, which declared, that “ a wise man acts always with reason, and pre- pares his own lentils." Among the Romans it was not much esteemed, and irom them the English may have inherited a prejudice against it, on account, it is said, of its rendering men indolent. It takes its name from lentus, “ slow," and according to Pliny, produces mildness and moderation of temper. The Egyptian yellow lentils are the cheapest; the German brown are the best. LENTIL.