Small-Pox or Variola. 1573 Glasses, cups, dishes, &c., must be scrupulously cleaned in the carbolic acid solution, or in boiling water, before they are carried away from the room. The discharges from the bowels and kidneys are to be received at once into vessels containing some disinfectant, such as a solution of two pounds of green vitriol (sulphate of iron) in a gallon of water, or the carbolic sclution, and immediately removed. A sheet kept moistened with carbolic acid solution (double strength, or half a pint to the gallon), should be hung over the door outside, or beyond in the passage way, for the purpose of catching any germs of the disease which might otherwise escape. Boiling is the surest way of disinfecting contaminated clothing, or it may be baked in an oven heated to about 240° Fahrenheit. After the disease is over, the patient should be kept isolated for ten days after all the scabs fall off in small-pox, or after desquamation (that is “ peeling ” of the skin) is complete in scarlet fever : for the last week of his seclusion, baths should be given daily, or every other day, containing carbolic acid, sanitas or other disinfectant, and every part of the body should be bathed, especially the scalp, as the disease poison is apt to linger about the roots of the hair among the dandruff. To purify the apartment, wash the furniture, woodwork, floor and walls (scraping off the paper) with the carbolic acid solution and soap. Then shut up tightly, and burn in it a pound of sulphur for every thousand cubic feet of space it contains, and allow the fumes to remain in the closed room for twenty-four hours. Lastly, open doors and windows so as to ventilate freely for a week, at the end of which time disinfection may generally be considered complete. 3539. Stnall-pox or Variola.—This is a febrile, eruptive and con- tagious disorder, which in past time raged with much violence in this country, but in recent periods has been vastly controlled by the discovery of vaccination. About its origin not much is known. The earliest records mention a disease which was probably small-pox, as far back as the sixth century ; since this period it has appeared with more or less virulence at various periods. The most common varieties are :—The discrete, in which the pustules are distinct; the con- fluent, in which the pustules run together ; the malignant, which is often associated with purpura and an eruption resembling measles—a very dangerous form ; the modified, which comes on in those partially protected by vaccination, and a kind that runs a very mild course. In cases of small-pox there is :—1. The stage of incubation, which lasts twelve days, from the date of receiving the poison. 2. The stage of eruptive fever and invasion, lasting forty-eight hours. 3. The stage of maturation, wherein the rash is fully developed, lasting about nine days. 4. The stage of secondary fever or decline, lasting a variable time, according to the severity of the disease. Discrete small-pox is the simplest form of the disease, and is rarely attended with danger to human life ; confluent small-pox destroys the greatest number of lives, and may prove fatal to as many as 50 per cent. In the discrete or distinct form, the primary fever is less intense than in the confluent form ; in the latter there is often delirium, and more especially in those who are intemperate, such as draymen and potmen. The malignant variety is terribly fatal; the blood seems profoundly poisoned from the first, and is more fluid than usual; bleeding from the mouth, nose and bowels is not uncommon ; in women there is also bleeding from the womb, and if they are pregnant, abor- tion will ensue. In modified small-pox the patient is often able to go about the whole time, and the rash may suddenly decline on the fourth or fifth day, and recovery follow. Symptoms.—The disease begins with shivering or rigors, pain in the back, vomiting, thirst, headache, and a general feeling of indisposition ; in children, convulsions may come on. In many cases the rash of small-pox in vaccinated cases is preceded by a more or less scarlet or roseulous rash which is mottled