1326 General Observations on Luncheon. Vegetables are seldom seen every day at the family luncheon table; but potatoes are liked by many, and it is seldom that there are not a few cold ones that can be turned to account to make a pleasant addition to the small hot dishes, what- ever they are. In cold weather, simply-made soup, which costs but little, might be more often seen than it is, and will be a great help in eking out a somewhat spare repast; while in summer, a nicely-made salad will give a relish to the cold joint that so often forms the staple dish. Fruit, when in season and obtainable, should always be on the table at luncheon, as it is known that the earlier in the day it is eaten the more wholesome it is. 3020. The Luncheon Table.—However simple the meal may be, it should be as neatly and daintily placed upon the table as a more elaborate one, the cloth clean, the silver and glass bright, while if possible a few flowers should be found for its decoration, or in place of these some ferns in pretty china pots, shells or rustic baskets, look extremely well, and, with care, will last a long time. According to the luncheon to be served so must the table be laid ; but it should be impressed upon the servants, when they are not required to wait at table, that everything necessary should be brought into the room—clean plates, glasses, knives and forks being laid ready on the sideboard, which, covered with a white cloth, is used for the same purpose as at breakfast. The arrangement of tables for meals does not stand so much upon strict etiquette, if I may use the word in respect of the matter, as to the precedence of this and that article of use, as upon a certain taste, born only of a cultivated eye to order and method, in their lodgment thereon. A raw, ill-taught servant, for instance, coming for the first time into the dining-room to get her first lesson in laying a cloth, will, if left to her own devices, lay that cloth, and the articles necessary to it, in a manner simply excruciating to witness. The cloth is to be put on the table, and she puts it on. She sees nothing in the fact that it reaches two inches over the edge of the table on this side, and a yard and a quarter upon that; that the centre “crease” is wofully “off the line.” The knives, forks, spoons, glasses, &c., simply bewilder her, and she gets rid of them by dropping them here and there all over the table in the insanest manner possible. But take a little girl, on the other hand, always accustomed to see the meal arrangements executed with precision and taste at home, and set her to lay a cloth. She will not lay it all as it should be, without doubt, but her management of it will have nothing within it to excite contempt and ridicule. It would be prettily, wrongly laid. Just so with us: we may take our dinner- tables in our hands, and defy fashion and the order of things, and come to no grief, if we will but attend to strict good taste and method, and actual necessities. A simple luncheon may be placed on a butler’s tray, all ready arranged upon a tray-cloth. These trays have in some cases sides that let down, and then all the servant has to do is to put the tray upon the table, and let down the sides. 3021. Luncheon dishes, such as cutlets, chops, hashes, pasties, &c., are too well known to need comment, but in our list of savouries may be found some that may vary the above; while the many recipes given for cold meat cookery should prevent the cold joint from being inevitable. 3022. Beverages.—These should be appropriate to the menu. For a good luncheon in summer all light wines are suitable, with some lemonade or aerated water tor those who prefer to dilute them, and ice should not be wanting. Claret, champagne, and cider-cup are all favourites for the hot weather. In winter, sherry and claret are the wines most often found. For a homely luncheon, ale, stout, or cider are often the accompanying beverages ; while, for those who do not take stimulants, there are an infinite variety of non-alcoholic drinks, effervescent or otherwise.