Sago Pudding. 879 milk, and let the mixture cool; then add the well-beaten eggs, and a few drops of essence of almonds or essence of vanilla, whichever may be pre- ferred ; butter well some small cups or moulds, line them with a few pieces of candied peel sliced very thin, fill them three-parts full, and bake for about 40 minutes ; turn them out of the cups on to a white d’oyley, and serve with sweet sauce. The flavouring and candied peel might be omitted, and stewed fruit or preserve served instead, with these puddings. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 6 puddings. Seasonable at any time. 1871. -RUM PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 1 pint of cream, 6 oz. of lump sugar, yolks of 10 eggs, 2 lemons, 1 oz. of gelatine, 1 gill of best rum. Mode.—Soak the gelatine in the milk for 5 minutes, then stir it in a saucepan over the fire till it is dissolved ; rub the sugar on the lemons to get off all the yellow rind, and put with the gelatine. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and stir them into the cream (if too expensive, take another pint of milk in its place); add this to the contents of the saucepan, and stir with an iron wire over the fire till it is almost boiling hot; then remove it from the fire, stir till nearly cold, and put in the rum. Oil a large mould, or two small ones, with the finest Florence oil; dip them in cold water and pour in the pudding. Let it be perfectly cold before turning it out. Before sending to table squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. Time.—About f hour. Average Cost, with cream, 3s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1872. -SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients.—i| pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sago, the rind of % a lemon, 3 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs, i^- oz. of butter, grated nutmeg, puff-paste. Mode.—Put the milk and lemon-rind into a stewpan, place it by the side of the fire, and let it remain until the milk is well flavoured with the lemon; then strain it, mix with it the sago and sugar, and simmer gently for about 15 minutes. Let the mixture cool a little, and stir to it the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the butter. Line the edges of a pie-dish with puff-paste, pour in the pudding, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake from | to 1 hour. Time.—J to I hour, or longer if the oven is very slow. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note—The above pudding may be boiled instead of baked; but then allow 2