1246 Recipes for Invalid Cookery. time before it is required, to enable it to get cold if drunk in a tepid or lukewarm state, it is an exceedingly disagreeable beverage. If, as is some- times the case, this drink is wanted in a hurry, put the toasted bread into a jug, and only just cover it with the boiling water ; when this is cool, cold water may be added in the proportion required—the toast-and-water strained ; it will then be ready for use, and is more expeditiously prepared than by the above method. A toasted biscuit, instead of the bread, is a good thing to use. 2815.—TOAST SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—Thin cold toast, thin slices of bread-and-butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.— Place a very thin piece of cold toast between 2 slices of thin bread-and-butter in the form of a sandwich, adding a seasoning of pepper and salt. This sandwich may be varied by adding a little pulled meat, or very fine slices of cold meat, to the toast, and in any of these forms will be found very tempting to the appetite of an invalid. Note.—Besides the recipes contained in this chapter, there are, in the previous chapters on cookery, many others suitable for invalids, which it would be useless to repeat here. Recipes for fish simply dressed, light soups, plain roast meat, well-dressed vegetables, poultry, simple puddings, jelly, stewed fruits, &c., &c., all of which dishes may be partaken of by invalids and convalescents, will be found in preceding chapters. Clear soup, with or without savoury custard, is often much relished, so are quenelles of various kinds, mince of fresh meat, entries with plain milk or cream sauce, and so on. 2816.—VEGETABLES FOR INVALIDS. If an invalid is allowed to eat vegetables, be careful to choose only such as are young and tender, perfectly fresh, and sufficiently cooked. Never send them up half done. The cabbage tribe are unsuitable, as likely to produce flatulence, and all the pulses are difficult of digestion. A mealy old potato is more digestible than a new potato. 2817.—WHEY. Mode.—To a pint of warm new milk add a teaspoonful of prepared rennet. Let it stand, and then strain it through a piece of muslin. This can sometimes be taken when milk cannot. It is a useful drink in feverish complaints. White wine whey is made by pouring a wine-glassful of sherry into a breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and then straining through muslin. Treacle posset is made of boiling milk, with one or two table- spoonfuls of treacle, in the same way. Alum whey and tamarind whey are also occasionally made.