Men Servants* Duties. 1468 "in hand ; ” but he is a very bad driver who always drives with a tight rein ; t’ne pain to the horse is intolerable, and causes him to rear and plunge, and finally break away, if he can. He is also a bad driver when the reins are always slack ; the horse then feels abandoned to himself; he is neither directed nor supported, and if no accident occurs, it is great good luck. 3253. The whip, in the hands of a good driver, and with well-bred cattle, is there more as a precaution than a " tool ” for frequent use; if he uses it, it is to encourage, by stroking the flanks ; except, indeed, he has to punish some way- wardness of temper, and then he does it effectually, taking care, however, that it is done on the flank, where there is no very tender part, never on the crupper. In driving, the coachman should never give way to temper. How often do we see horses stumble from being conducted, or at least “ allowed,” to go over bad ground by some careless driver, who immediately wreaks that vengeance on the poor horse which might, with much more justice, be applied to his own brutal shoulders. The whip is of course useful, and even necessary, but should be rarely used, except to encourage and excite the horses. THE VALET. 3254. Attendants on the Person“ No man is a hero to his valet,” saith the proverb ; and the corollary may run, “ No lady is a heroine to her maid.” The infirmities of humanity are, perhaps, too numerous and too equally distributed to stand the severe microscopic tests which attendants on the person have opportunities of applying. The valet and waiting-maid are placed near the persons of the master and mistress, receiving orders only from them, dressing them, accompanying them in all their journeys, the confidants and agents of their most unguarded moments, of their most secret habits, and of course subject to their commands—even to their caprices ; they themselves being subject to erring judgment, aggravated by an imperfect education. All that can be expected from such servants is polite manners, modest demeanour, and a respectful reserve, which are indispensable. To these, good sense, good temper, some self-denial, and consideration for the feelings of others, whether above or below them in the social scale, will be useful qualifications. Their duty leads them to wait on those who are, from sheer wealth, station and education, more polished, and consequently more susceptible of annoyance; and any vulgar familiarity of manner is opposed to all their notions of self-respect. Quiet, unobtrusive manners, therefore, and a delicate reserve in speaking of their employers, either in praise or blame, is as essential in their absence, as good manners and respectful conduct in their presence. 3255. Some of the duties of the valet we have hinted at in treating of the duties of a footman in a small family. His day com- mences by seeing that his master’s dressing-room is in order ; that the housemaid has swept and dusted it properly ; that the fire is lighted and burns cheerfully ; and some time before his master is expected, he will do well to throw up the sash to admit fresh air, closing it, however, in time to recover the temperature which he knows his master prefers. It is now his duty to place the body linen on the horse before the fire, to be aired properly ; to lay the trousers intended to be worn, carefully brushed and cleaned, on the back of his master’s chair; while the coat and waistcoat, carefully brushed and folded, and the collar cleaned, are laid in their place ready to put on when required. All the articles of the toilet should