Lettuces. 755 with a sharp knife remain in cold water for an hour; wash it well, and scrape it into very thin shreds, commencing from the thick end of the root. Arrange some of it lightly in a small glass dish, and the remainder use for garnishing the joint: it should be placed in tufts round the border of the dish, with one or two bunches on the meat. Average Cost, 2d. per stick. Seasonable from October to June. The Horseradish.—This belongs lo the tribe Alyssidce, and is highly stimulant and exciting to the stomach. It has been recom- mended in chronic rheumatism, palsy, dropsical complaints, and in cases of enfeebled digestion. Its principal use, however, is as a con- diment to promote appetite and excite the digestive organs. The horseradish. horseradish contains sulphur to the extent of thirty per cent, in the number of its elements; and it is to the presence of this quality that the metal vessels in which the radish is sometimes distilled are turned into a black colour. It is one of the most powerful excitants and antiscorbutics we have, and forms the basis of several medical preparations, in the form of wines, tinctures and syrups. 1581.—LETTUCES. (Ft.—Laitues.) Mode.—These form one of the principal ingredients of summer salads; should be nicely blanched, and be eaten young. They are seldom served in any other way, but may be stewed and sent to table in a good brown gravy flavoured with lemon-juice. In preparing them for a salad, carefully wash them free from dirt, pick off all the decayed and outer leaves, and dry them thoroughly by shaking them in a cloth. Cut off the stalks, and either halve or cut the lettuces into small pieces. The manner of cutting them up entirely depends on the salad for which they are intended. In France, the lettuces are sometimes merely wiped with a cloth and not washed, the cooks there declaring that the act of washing them injuri- ously affects the pleasant crispness of the plant ; in this case, scrupulous attention must be paid to each leaf, and the grit thoroughly wiped away. Average Cost, when cheapest, id. each. Sufficient.—Allow 2 lettuces for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from March to August, but may be had all the year. The Lettuce.—All the varieties of the garden lettuce have originated from the Lactuca sativa of science, which has never yet been found in a wild state. Hence it may be concluded fhat it is merely another form of some species, changed through the effects of cultivation. In its young state, the lettuce forms a well-known and wholesome salad, containing a bland pellucid juice, with little taste or smell, and having a cooling and lettuce. soothing influence on the system. This arises from the large quantities of water and mucilage it contains, and not from any narcotic principle, which it is supposed to possess. Durin'g the period of floweriqg, i; abounds in a peculiar milky jujc'ei‘which .flows from the st'e'm ‘wlfe'a wb'tffj'ded, ahd Width has b’ee'n found to be possessed of decided medicinal p'r'ojp'ertfes.