Beef Palates. 425 950.—BROILED OX-TAIL. {Fr — Queue de Boeuf Grillee.) Ingredients.—2 tails, pint of stock, No. 273, salt and cayenne to taste, bread-crumbs, 1 egg. Mode.—Joint and cut up the tails into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with the stock, cayenne and salt, and, if liked very savoury, a bunch of sweet herbs. Let them simmer gently for about 2^ hours; then take them out, drain them and let them cool. Beat an egg upon a plate ; dip in each piece of tail, and, afterwards, throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs; broil them over a clear fire, until of a brownish colour on both sides, and serve with a good gravy, or any sauce that may be preferred. Time.—About 2$ hours. Average Cost, is. 9 d. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—These may be more easily prepared by putting the tails in a brisk oven, after they have been dipped in egg and bread-crumbs ; and, when brown, they are done. They must de boiled the same time as for broiling. Strange Tails.—Naturalists cannot explain the uses of some of the strange tails borne by ani- mals. In the Egyptian and Syrian sheep, for instance, the tail grows so large that it is not un- frequently supported upon a sort of little cart, in order to prevent inconvenience to the animal. This monstrous appendage sometimes attains a weight of seventy, eighty, or even a hundred founds. 951.—TO DRESS BEEF PALATES. {Fr.—Palais de Boeuf a la Sauce Piquante.) Ingredients.—4 palates, sufficient gravy to cover them (No. 614), cay- enne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of pickled-onion liquor, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Wash the palates, and put them into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil until perfectly tender, or until the upper skin may be easily peeled off. Have ready sufficient gravy (No. 614) to cover them; add a good seasoning of cayenne, and thicken with roux, No. 799, or a little butter kneaded with flour; let it boil up and skim. Cut the palates into square pieces, put them in the »gravy, and let them simmer gently for half an hour; add ketchup and onion liquor, give one boil, and serve. Time.—From 3 to 5 hours to boil the palates. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Palates may be dressed in various ways—with sauce tournee, good onion sauce, tomato sauce, and also served in a vol-au-vent; but the above will be found a more simple method of dressing them