6zy Stewed Pigeons. The Nun Pigeon.—The Tumbler bears a strong resemblance to this variety, which is charac- terised by a tuft of feathers rising from the back of the head, and which, on the whole, is an extremely pretty little bird. According to the colour of the head, it is called the red, black or yellow-headed Nun. To be a perfect bird, it should have a small head and beak; and the larger the tuft at the back of his head, the handsomer the bird is esteemed, and proportionately valuable in the eyes of pigeon-fanciers. The Trumpeter Pigeon.—From the circumstance of this bird imitating the sound of a trumpet, instead of cooing like other pigeons, it has received its designation. It is of the middle size, having its legs and feet covered with feathers, and its plumage generally of a mottled black and nun pigeons. white. It |has a tuft springing from the root of its beak, and the larger this top-knot is, the higher the estima- tion in which the breed is held. In their powers of trumpeting some are more expert than others ; and whether this has any effect in influencing their own estimate of themselves, we cannot say ; but they are rather select in the choice of their company. If two of them are put in a pigeon-house with other doves, it will be found that they confine their asso- ciation almost entirely to each other. As much as two guineas have been paid for a well-trained docile bird of this kind. TRUMPETER PIGEONS. essentially specific differences which would appear to be attributable rather to the nature of the region, soil and climate to which they are indigenous, than to the art and ingenuity of man. The stock-dove, in its wild state, is still found in some parts of Britain, forming its nest in the holes of rocks, old towers, and in the hollows of trees ; it never, however, like the ring-dove, nestles in the branches. Multitudes of wild pigeons still visit our shores in the winter, coming from their more northerly retreats, making their appearance about November, and retiring again in the spring. When forests of beechwood covered large tracts of the ground of this country these birds used to |haunt them in myriads, frequently covering a mile of ground in extent when they went out in the morn- ing to feed. The Wood, or Wild Pigeon.—Buffon enumerates upwards of thirty varieties of the pigeon, which he derives from one root—viz. the stock-dove, or common wild pigeon. All the varieties of colour and form which we witness, he attributes to human contrivance and fancy. Nevertheless, there exist these birds WOOD-PIGEON. 1320.—STEWED PIGEONS. (Fr.—Pigeons en Compote.) Ingredients.—6 pigeons, a few slices of bacon, 3 oz. of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of minced parsley, sufficient stock, No. 273, to cover the pigeons, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom -ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port. Mode.—Empty and clean the pigeons thoroughly, mince the livers, add to these the parsley and butter, and put it into the insides of the birds. Truss them with the legs inward, and put them into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon placed under and over them; add the stock