Quenelles for Turtle Soup. 297 634-QUENELLES OF VEAL. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of veal, panada (No. 632), and calfs udder (No. 633); 2 eggs, seasoning to taste, of pepper, salt and pounded mace, or grated nutmeg ; a little flour. Mode.—Take the fleshy part of veal, scrape it with a knife till all the meat is separated from the sinews, and allow about half a pound for an entree. Chop the meat, and pound it in a mortar till reduced to a paste; then roll it into a ball; make another of panada (No. 632), the same size, and another of udder (No. 633), taking care that these three balls be of the same size. It is to be remembered that equality of size, and not of weight, is here necessary. When the three ingredients are properly prepared, pound them all together in a mortar for some time; for the more quenelles are pounded the more delicate they are. Now moisten with the eggs, whites and yolks, and continue pounding, adding a seasoning of pepper, spices, &c. When the whole is well blended together, mould it into balls, or whatever shape is intended, with a spoon dipped in boiling water, and poach in boiling water, to which a little salt should have been added. If the quenelles are not firm enough, add the yolk of another egg, but omit the white, which only makes them hollow and puffy inside. In the preparation of this recipe, it would be well to bear in mind that the ingredients are to be well pounded and seasoned, and must be made hard or soft according to the dishes they are intended for. For brown or white ragouts they should be firm, and when the quenelles are used very small, extreme delicacy will be necessary in their preparation. Their flavour may be varied by using the flesh of rabbit, fowl, hare, pheasant, grouse, or an extra quantity of mushroom, parsley, &c. Time.—About 4 hour to poach in boiling water. Sufficient, 4 lb. of veal or other meat, with other ingredients in pro- portion, for 1 entree. Note.—The French are noted for their skill in making forcemeats ; one of the principal causes of their superiority in this respect being that they pound all the ingredients so diligently and thoroughly. Anyone with the slightest pretensions to refined cookery, must, in this particular, implicitly follow the example of our friends across the Channel. 635.—FORCEMEAT, or QUENELLES, for TURTLE SOUP. (Fr.—Quenelles a Tortue.) Soyer’s Recipe for Forcemeats.—Take lb. of lean veal from the fillet, and cut it in long thin slices; scrape with a knife till nothing but the fibre remains ; put it in a mortar, pound it 10 minutes, or until in a puree; pass it through a wire sieve (use the remainder in stock); then