908 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, Sc. Seasonable from July to March, sweeten them nicely, and add the minced lemon-peel. Stew the apples very gently until tender, taking care they do not break. Boil the rice, with the milk, sugar and nutmeg, until soft, and, when thoroughly done, dish it, piled high in the centre ; arrange the apples on it, warm the apricot jam, pour it over the whole, and serve hot. Time.—About 30 minutes to stew the apples very gently ; about | hour to cook the rice. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. 1937-—APPLE SNOW. (Fr.— Pommes Meringu^es.) (A Pretty Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—10 good-sized apples, the whites of 10 eggs, the rind of 1 lemon, $ lb. of pounded sugar. Mode.— Peel, core and cut the apples into quarters, and put them into a saucepan with the lemon-peel and sufficient water to prevent them from burning, rather less than half a pint. When they are tender, take out the peel, beat them to a pulp, let them cool, and stir them to the whites of the eggs, which should be previously beaten to a strong froth. Add the sifted sugar, and continue the whisking until the mixture becomes quite stiff; and either heap it on a glass dish, or serve it in small glasses. The dish may be garnished with preserved barberries, or strips of bright- coloured jelly ; and a dish of custards should be served with it, or a jug of cream. Time.—From 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to fill a moderate-sized glass dish. Seasonable from July to March. 1938-—APPLE CUSTARD. (Fr.—Pommes M4ringu6es.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of apples, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, 1 pint of milk, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Stew the apples with 4 oz. of loaf sugar until tender. Beat the yolks of the eggs with 2 oz. of loaf sugar, and pour over them the milk, boiling hot. Put this custard into a saucepan, and cook until it is as thick as corn-flour pudding. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with powdered sugar. Put the apples into a dish, pour the custard over them, cover this with the frosting, place in the oven, and brown lightly. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, is. $d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons.