1242 Recipes for Invalid Cookery. 2801.—INVALID’S JELLY. Ingredients.—12 shanks of mutton, 3 quarts of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 3 blades of mace, 1 onion, 1 lb. of lean beef, a crust of brq^d toasted brown. Mode.— Soak the shanks in plenty of water for some hours, and scrub them well; put them, with the beef and other in- gredients, into a saucepan with the water, and let them simmer very gently for 5 hours. Strain the broth, and, when cold, take off all the fat. It may be eaten either warmed-up or cold as a jelly. Time.—5 hours. Sufficient to make from to 2 pints of jelly. Seasonable at any time. 2802-LEMONADE FOR INVALIDS. JELLY IN GLASS. Ingredients.—I a lemon, lump sugar to taste, 1 pint of boiling water. Mode.—Pare off the rind of the lemon thinly; remove as much as possible of the white outside pith, and all the pips; cut the lemon into slices. Put the slices of lemon, the peel and lump sugar, into a jug ; pour over the boiling water; cover it closely, and when it is cold, it will be fit to drink. It should either be strained or poured off from the sediment. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, id. Sufficient to make 1 pint of lemonade. Seasonable at any time. 2803.—NOURISHING LEMONADE. Ingredients.—ii pint of boiling water, the juice of 4 lemons, the rinds of 2, | pint of sherry, 4 eggs, 6 oz. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare off the lemon-rind thinly, put it into a jug with the sugar, and pour over the boiling water. Let in cool, then strain it; add the wine, lemon-juice, and eggs, previously well beaten, and also strained, and the beverage will be ready for use. If thought desirable, the quantity of sherry and water could be lessened, and milk substituted for them. To obtain the flavour of the lemon-rind properly, a few lumps of the sugar should be rubbed over it, until some of the yellow is absorbed. Time.—Altogether 1 hour to make it. Average Cost, is. 6 d. Sufficient to make 2^ pints of lemonade. Seasonable at any time. 2804.—MILK AND SUET. Mode.—Scrape half an ounce of veal suet very fine, and boil it slowly in a pint of new milk for half an hour with a bit of cinnamon, or any other spice that is preferred, and 2 or 3 lumps of sugar.