309 Bread Sauce. Mode.—Put the above into a stewpan and reduce over the fire one half. Skim carefully and pour into a bain-marie pan. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 8d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 670.—BRANDY SAUCE. Ingredients.—I tablespoonful of baked flour, 3 oz. fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful moist sugar, if pint of boiling water, 1 wineglassful brandy. Mode.—iWork the flour and butter together with a wooden spoon, then stir in the boiling water and sugar, boil gently for 10 minutes, then add the brandy. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 671.—BREAD SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce au Pain.) (To Serve with Roast Turkey, Fowl, Game, &c.) Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, f lb. of the crumb of a stale loaf, 1 onion, pounded mace, cayenne and salt to taste, 1 oz. of butter. Mode,—Peel and quarter the onion, and simmer it in the milk till per- fectly tender. Break the bread, which should be stale, into small pieces, or grate it into crumbs; put it in a very clean saucepan, strain the milk over it, cover it up, and let it remain for an hour to soak. Now beat it up with a fork very smoothly, add a seasoning of pounded mace, cayenne and salt, with 1 oz. of butter; give the whole one boil, and serve. To enrich this sauce, a small quantity of cream may be added just before sending it to table. The butter may be omitted. Time.—Altogether if hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 4d. Sufficient to serve with a turkey, pair of fowls, or brace of partridges. Mace. (Fr.—Fleur de Muscade.)—This is the membrane which surrounds the shell of the nutmeg. Its general qualities are the same as those of the nutmeg, producing an agreeable aromatic odour, with a hot and acrid taste. It is of an oleaginous nature, is yellowish in its hue, and is used largely as a condiment. In “ Beeton’s Dictionary ” we find that the four largest of the Banda Islands produce 150,000 lbs. of it annually, which, with nutmegs, are their principal articles of export. 672.—BREAD SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce au Pain.) (A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—Giblets ot poultry, f lb. of the crumb of a stale loaf, 1 onion, 12 whole peppers, 1 blade of mace, salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or melted butter, 1 pint of water.