1485 Duties of the General Servant. housemaid’s box. in a family, and it is, probably, a greater annoyance to a right-minded servant than to the mistress. A neat-handed housemaid may sometimes repair these breakages, where they are not broken in very conspicuous places, by joining the pieces very neatly together with a cement for which we give a recipe. These are the duties of the housemaid or housemaids, and according to the number kept so will the work be divided between them, every household having different rules and management. THE GENERAL SERVANT. 3289. The general servant is, perhaps, the only one of her class deserving of commiseration : her life is a solitary one, and, in some places, her work is never done. She is also subject to rougher treatment than either the house or kitchen-maid, especially in her earlier career ; she starts in life, probably, a girl of thirteen, with some small tradesman's wife as her mistress, just a step above her in the social scale; and, although the class contains many excellent, kind-hearted women, it also contains some very rough specimens of the feminine gender; and to some of these it occasionally falls to give our maid-of-all-work her first lessons in her multifarious occupations: the mistress’s commands are the measure of the maid-of-all- work’s duties. By the time she has become a tolerable servant, she is probably engaged in some respectable trades- man’s house, where she has to rise with the lark, for she has to do in her own person all the work which in larger establishments is performed by cook, kitchen-maid, and housemaid, and occasionally the part of a footman’s duty which consists in carrying messages. A general servant, however, in what may be termed a good situation has not too much work to do. There are many mistresses who perfectly realise the fact that it is not possible for one servant to do the duties of two or three, and these ladies would be ready to give assistance themselves, or provide it occasionally if it were needed. 3290. The general servant's duties commence by opening the shutters (and windows, if the weather permits) of all the lower apartments in the house ; she should then brush up her kitchen-range, light the fire, clear away the ashes] clean the hearth, and polish with a leather the bright parts of the range, doing all as rapidly and as vigorously as possible, that no more time be wasted than is necessary. After putting on the kettle, she should then proceed to the dining- room, or parlour, to get it in order for breakfast. She should first roll up the rug, take up the fender, shake and fold up the table- cloth, then sweep the room, carrying the dirt towards the fireplace; a coarse cloth should then be laid down over the carpet, and she should proceed to clean the grate, having all her utensils close to her. When the grate is finished, the ashes cleared away, the hearth cleaned, and the fender put back in its place, she must dust the furniture, not omitting the legs of the tables and chairs ; and if there are any ornaments or things on the sideboard, she must not dust round them, but lift _ them up on to another place, dust well where they have been standing, and then replace the things. Nothing annoys a particular mistress so much as to find, when she comes downstairs, different articles of furniture looking as if they had never been dusted. If the servant is at all methodical, and gets into the habit of doing a room in a certain way, she will scarcely ever leave her duties neglected. After the rug is put down, the table- CINDER-SIFTER.