Orange Jelly. 941 2012.—ORANGE CUSTARDS. (Fr — Creme aux Oranges.) Ingredients.—The juice of 10 large oranges, a teacupful of sifted sugar, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 pint of cream. Mode.—Sweeten the orange-juice with the sugar, and set it over the fire ; stir constantly till hot, when skim it carefully, and set aside to cool. When nearly cold add the yolks of eggs, beaten very light, and the cream. Put all into a saucepan, and stir over a very slow fire until thick. Pour into cups and serve cold. If desired, the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, with a teacupful of pounded sugar, may be used, a heaped table- spoonful on the top of each cup of the custard. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 8 or xo persons. Seasonable from November to May. 2013.—ORANGE JELLY. (Fr— Gel6e aux Oranges.) Ingredients.—I pint of water, i£ to 2 oz. of gelatine, £ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 Seville orange, 1 lemon, about 9 China oranges. Mode.—Put the water into a saucepan, with the gelatine, sugar, and the rind of 1 orange, and the same of half a lemon, and stir these over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved, and remove the scum; then add to this the juice of the Seville orange, the juice of the lemon, and sufficient juice of China oranges to make in all 1 pint; from 8 to 10 oranges will yield the desired quantity. Stir all together over the fire until it is just on the point of boiling; skim well; then strain the jelly through a fine sieve or jelly-bag, and, when nearly cold, put it into a mould previously wetted, and when quite set, turn it out on a dish and garnish it to taste. To ensure this jelly being clear, the orange and lemon-juice should be well strained, and the gelatine very clear, before they are added to the other ingredients, and, to heighten the colour, a. few drops of prepared cochineal may be added. Time.—5 minutes to boil without the juice; 1 minute after it is added. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May. 2014-ORANGE JELLY MOULDED WITH SLICES OF ORANGE. (Fr.—Gelee aux Oranges.) Ingredients.—i£ pint of orange jelly, No. 2013, 4 oranges, \ pint of clarified syrup. OPEN MOULD.