1088 General Observations on Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. dripping is the better of the two. Less butter and eggs are required for cakes when yeast is mixed with the other ingredients. No eggs need be used with baking powder. In any kind of sponge or rich cake the tin should be lined with buttered paper. The heat of the oven is of great importance, especially for large cakes. If the heat be not tolerably fierce, the batter will not rise. If the oven is too quick, and there is any danger of the cake burning or catching, put a sheet of clean paper over the top. Newspaper, or paper that has been printed on, should never be used for this purpose. To know when a cake is sufficiently baked, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it; draw it quickly out, and if it looks in the least sticky, put the cake back, and close the oven door until the cake is done. Cakes should be kept in closed tin canisters or jars, and in a dry place. Those made with yeast do not keep so long as those made without it. BISCUITS. 2402. Manufacture of Biscuits.—Since the establishment of the large modern biscuit manufactories, biscuits have been produced both cheap and wholesome in, comparatively speaking, endless variety. Their actual component parts are, perhaps, known only to the various makers ; but there are several kinds of biscuits which have long been in use, and most of which belong to the class of unfermented bread, and are, perhaps, the most wholesome of that class. In cases where fermented bread does not agree with the stomach, they may be recom- mended ; in many instances they are considered lighter, and less liable to create acidity and flatulence. The name is derived from the French bis cuit, or " twice baked," because, originally, that was the mode of entirely depriving them of all moisture, to ensure their keeping; but although that process is no longer em- ployed, the name is retained. The use of this kind of bread on land is general, and some varieties are luxuries ; but at sea, biscuits are articles of the first neces- sity. Fancy biscuits contain butter, eggs, milk and various flavouring. They are sold in enormous quantities. Sea or ship biscuits are made of wheat-flour from which only the coarsest bran has been separated. The dough is made up as stiff as it can be worked, and is then formed into shapes, and baked in an oven ; after which the biscuits are exposed in lofts over the oven until perfectly dry, to prevent them from becoming mouldy when stored. Captains’ biscuits are made in a similar manner, but of fine flour. PRICE OF BREAD. 2403. Average Price of Bread.—This must always be a variable quantity, as it will range higher or lower, according to the price that is paid for wheat. When the miller has secured remuneration for his labour, wear and tear of machinery, &c., in converting a quarter of wheat into flour, it is reckoned that the available produce of the wheat is ij sack of flour, which may be sold at the price which is given for the wheat. The price of a sack of flour will, therefore, be just two-thirds the cost of the quarter of wheat from which the flour has been made. The sack of flour weighs 280 lbs., and will yield, owing to the water, &c., that is added to it when it is made into bread, 360 lbs. of bread, or 90 4-lb. loaves. A master baker once told the writer that if a baker added id. to the net cost of every quartern loaf he made, he would be sufficiently remunerated. According to this, if wheat were 45s. per quarter, and flour at 30s. per sack, the net cost of the flour in each 4-lb. loaf would be 4d., and the selling price 5d.; to be per- fectly fair, however, to the baker, let us put it at 5\d. Our monetary system will not admit of a rise or fall of less than %d. on the 4-lb. loaf; so, taking the state-