382 General ubservations on Quadrupeds. (4.) Buttock.—A large lump of solid meat without much fat. Buttock steaks are often sold. The joint is also roasted in large establishments where economy is studied. Better boiled or stewed. (5.) Mouse-round.—Only fit for soups, stews, or family puddings. Lean and sinewy. This is sent if leg of beef is ordered. (6.) Veiny piece.—Steaks for stewing. (7.) Thick Flank.—Coarser fibred than some parts, but well flavoured, and generally tender. No bone and little fat, and sold at a reasonable price, so that it is one of the most economical parts to buy, whether for pies and puddings, or for a roast, or for boiling. (8.) Thin Flank.—May be used for stews, but is rather fat. Is always low priced. Perhaps the best use for it is to salt or pickle and eat cold, when it is a very economical joint. (9.) Leg.—Only purchased for soup meat, or the lean part for slow stewing. Fore Quarter. (10.) Fore Rib.—The five ribs nearest the sirloin are the best for any purpose Always ask for the best end of the ribs, and see that you get it, as someone must eat the remaining six. The best end of the ribs has no strip of yellow gristle running round about an inch from the outer skin : nor has the worst vety often, inasmuch as the butchers cut it out. But you can see where it has been. It always should be cut out before it comes to table. It is not necessary to buy all five ribs at once, nor more than makes a piece thick enough to roast, i.e., one or two ribs. It is generally thought more economical to have the bones taken out and the meat rolled round; then the bones serve for soup. (11.) Middle Rib.—Almost always roasted. (12.) Chuck Rib.—Roasted by the less particular. Also cut into steaks, &c. (13.) Leg of Mutton Piece.—Solid meat with little fat. The best for pies and puddings, as it is full of gravy. Good steaks are cut from it, and it is very economical to roast. (14.) Brisket, or Breast.—Sold at a low price for stewing and salting. Very good for either purpose, but rather fat. Cooked in either way, it is excellent cold. (15.) Clod.—Part of this is often sent if soup meat is ordered. If it is not fat, it makes good pies and puddings, but the meat should be stewed first. It is also suitable for an economical stew. (16.) Neck.—Used in the same way as the clod. (17.) Shin.—Soups, gravies and cheap stews. (18.) Ox Cheek.—This is too bony to be a very cheap joint, although it is sold at a low price, and can be made very palatable by slow stewing, or is good for soup. The brains, well soaked and boiled or fried, make a good dish. Besides these joints the following parts of the ox are sold for food— (19.) Cow-heel.—These are sold by butchers with the skin on, and by tripe dressers with the skin off. The former is the more economical way to buy them, but they are troublesome to clean. They make as good jelly as calves’ feet, and what remains of them is very good eating. They can be used for soup in the same way as calves head. (20.) Ox-tail.—For soups and stews. Considered a delicacy, and, therefore, not cheap. (21.) Heart.—Generally roasted. Economical; but, on account of the closeness and hardness of the muscular tissue, is very indigestible. (22 ) Tongue.—Can be bought fresh or salted. Is considered a delicacy. Usually boiled and eaten cold, but also stewed as an entree. (23.) Liver.—Very nutritious and very cheap, but coarse flavoured. Finds »