416 Recipes for Cooking Beef. 929.-S LICED AND BROILED BEEF. (Fr.—Bceuf Grille aux Pommes de Terre.) (A Pretty Dish. Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A few slices of cold roast beef, 4 or 5 potatoes, a thin batter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Pare the potatoes as you would peel au apple ; fry the par- ings in a thin batter, seasoned with salt and pepper, until they are of a light brown colour, and place them on a dish over some slices of beef, which should be nicely seasoned and broiled Time.—5 minutes to broil the meat. Seasonable at any time. 930.—SPICED BEEF. (To Serve Cold.) Ingredients.—14 lbs. of the thick flank or rump of beef, £ lb. of coarse sugar, 1 oz. of saltpetre, £ lb. of pounded allspice, 1 lb. of common salt. Mode.— Rub the sugar well into the beef, and let it lay for 12 hours ; then rub the saltpetre and allspice, both of which should be pounded, over the meat, and let it remain for another 12 hours; then rub in the salt. Turn daily in the liquor for a fortnight, soak it for a few hours in water, dry with a cloth, cover with a coarse paste, put a little water at the bot- tom of the pan, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. If it is not covered with a paste, be careful to put the beef into a deep vessel, and cover with a plate, or it will be too crisp. During the time the meat is in the oven it should be turned once or twice. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable at any time. Baking Meat.—Baking exerts some unexplained influence on meat, rendering it less savoury and less agreeable than meat which has been roasted. “Those who have travelled in Germany and France,’’ writes Mr. Lewis, one of our most popular scientific authors, “ must have repeat- edly marvelled at the singular uniformity in the flavour, or want of flavour, of the various ‘ roasts' served up at the table d'hote.'' The general explanation is, that the German and French meat is greatly inferior in quality to that of England and Holland, owing to the inferiority of pasturage; and doubtless this is one cause, but it is not the chief cause. The meat is inferior, but the cook- ing is mainly at fault. The meat is scarcely ever roasted, because there is no coal, and firewood is expensive. The meat is therefore baked; and the consequence of this baking is, that no meat is eatable .r eaten, with its own gravy, but is always accompanied by some sauce more or less piquant. The Germans generally believe that in England we eat our beef and mutton almost raw; they shudder at our gravy, as if it were so much blood. 931.—STEWED BEEF AND CELERY SAUCE. (Fr.—Filets de Boeuf, Sauce Cel6ri.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—3 roots of celery, 1 pint of gravy, No. 614, 2 onions sliced, 2 lbs. of cold roast or boiled beef.