Carrack Sauce. 1035 with th 3 pickle; tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. They will be fit for use in a month, and will keep good 2 or 3 years. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, is. 9d. per hundred. Seasonable.—Make this from the beginning to the middle of July, before the walnuts harden. Note-—When liked, a few shalots may be added to the vinegar, and boiled with it. S A U C ES. 2242.-SAUCE ARlSTOCRATlQUE. (A Store Sauce.) Ingredients.—Green walnuts. To every pint of juice, 1 lb. of an- chovies, 1 drachm of cloves, 1 drachm of mace, 1 drachm of Jamaica ginger bruised, 8 shalots. To every pint of the boiled liquor, £ pint of vinegar, \ pint of port, 2 tablespoonfuls of soy. Mode.—Pound the walnuts in a mortar, squeeze out the juice through a strainer, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear juice, and to every pint of it, add anchovies, spice and cloves in the above proportion. Boil all these together till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the juice again, put in the shalots (8 to every pint), and boil again. To every pint of the boiled liquor add vinegar, wine and soy, in the above quantities, and bottle off for use. Cork well, and seal the corks. Seasonable.—Make this sauce from the beginning to the middle of July, when walnuts are in perfection for sauces and pickling. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. for a quart. Manufacture of Sauces.—In France, during the reign of Louis XII., at the latter end of the 14th century, there was formed a company of sauce manufacturers, who obtained, in those days of monopolies, the exclusive privilege of making sauces. The statutes drawn up by this com- pany inform us that the famous sauce a la camelme, sold by them, was to be composed of “ good cinnamon, good ginger, good cloves, good grains of paradise, good bread, and good vinegar.’ The sauce Tence was to be made of "good sound almonds, good ginger, good wine, and good verjuice.’’ May we respectfully express a hope—not that we desire to doubt it in the least—that the English sauce-manufacturers of the igth century are equally considerate and careful in choos- ing their ingredients for their various well-known preparations. 2243.—CARRACK SAUCE. (For Cold Meat.) Ingredients.—-1 quart of vinegar, 15 anchovies, 3 dessertspoonfuls ot mango pickle, 8 dessertspoonfuls of walnut pickle, 5 dessertspoonfuls ot mushroom-ketchup, 5 dessertspoonfuls of soy, 2 heads of garlic. Mode.—Chop and slice the ingredients, then put all into a bottle and