130 Soups. food, is certain to be produced. In most cases, indeed, as the flesh of diseased animals has a tendency to very rapid putrefaction, it becomes not only unwhole- some, but absolutely poisonous, on account of the absorption of the virus of the unsound meat into the systems of those who partake of it. The external indica- tions of good and bad meat will be described under its own particular head ; but we may here premise that the Iyer of all wholesome meat, when freshly killed, adheres firmly to the bone. 262. The treatment of the animal before it is slaughtered is another circumstance greatly affecting the quality of meat. This influences its value and wholesomeness to a considerable degree. It will be easy to under- stand this, when we reflect on those leading principles by which the life of an animal is supported and maintained. These are, the digestion of its food, and the assimilation of that food into its substance. Nature, in affecting this process, first reduces the food in the stomach to a state of pulp, under the name of chyme, which passes into the intestines, and is there divided into two principles, each distinct from the other. One, a milk-white fluid—the nutritive portion—is absorbed by innumerable vessels which open upon the mucous membrane, or inner coat of the intestines. These vessels, or absorbents, discharge the fluid into a common duct, or road, along which it is conveyed to the large veins in the neighbourhood of the heart. Here it is mixed with the venous blood (which is black and impure) returning from every part of the body, and then it supplies the waste which is occasioned in the circulating stream by the arterial (or pure) blood having furnished matter for the substance of the animal. The blood of the animal having completed its course through all parts, and having had its waste recruited by the digested food, is now received into the heart, and by the action of that organ it is urged through the lungs, there to receive its purification from the air which the animals inhales. Again returning to the heart, it is forced through the arteries, and thence distributed, by innumerable ramifications, called capillaries, bestowing to every part of the animal life and nutriment. The other principle—the innutritive portion—passes from the intestines, and is thus got rid of. It will now be readily understood how flesh is affected for bad, if an animal is slaughtered when the circulation of its blood has been increased by over-driving, ill-usage, or other causes of excitement, to such a degree of rapidity as to be tQQ great for the capillaries to perform their functions, and causing the blood to be congealed in its minuter vessels. Where this has been the case, the meat will be dark-coloured, and become rapidly putrid ; so that self-interest and humanity alike dictate kind and gentle treatment cf all animals destined to serve as food for man. 263. THE CHEMISTRY AND ECONOMY OF SOUP MAKING. Soup has been, and indeed still is, a mode of preparing food much neglected in this country. It forms the first course of all dinners with any pretension to fashion, but it has not yet come to be an everyday diet of the multitude. And yet it may fairly be said that no food is more digestible and wholesome, and that none offers the same opportunities of utilising material that must otherwise be wasted. Nearly a hundred years ago Count Rumford wrote: “ The richness or quality of a soup depended more upon a proper choice of ingredients, and a proper management of the fire in the combination of those ingredients, than upon the, quantity of solid nutritious matter employed ; much more upon the art and skill of the cook than upon the sum laid out in the market. I found likewise that the nutritiousness of a soup, or its power of satisfying hunger and affording nourish- ment, appeared always to be in proportion to its apparent richness or palatable-