1174 Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs. part of the cheese cut in slices, break over this the eggs, without breaking the yolks, season with pepper and salt. Grate the remainder of the cheese and mix with it the parsley and lay it over the top, and over this put the remainder of the butter in small pieces. Bake in a quick oven for to minutes and serve hot. Time.—io minutes. Average Cost, \od. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2617.—BAKED EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs au Gratin.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, 2 oz. of cheese, grated, 2 oz. of bread-crumbs, £ oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt and cayenne. Mode.—Butter 6 small paper cases or cups, put the seasoning into them, and break an egg into each ; put over the cheese, then the crumbs, and put a little bit of butter on the top ; bake for 5 minutes. Time.—5 minutes to bake the eggs. Average Cost, 9d. Seasonable at any time. 2618.—BUTTERED EGGS. (Fr.-CEufs au Beurre.) Ingredients.—4 new-laid eggs, 2 oz. of butter, pepper, salt. Mode.—Procure the eggs new-laid if possible ; break them into a basin, and beat them well; put the butter into another basin, which place in boiling water, and stir till the butter is melted. Pour that and the eggs into a lined saucepan; hold it over a gentle fire, and, as the mixture begins to warm, pour it two or three times into the basin and back again, that the two ingredients may be well incorporated. Add the seasoning, and keep stirring the eggs and butter one way until they are hot, without boiling, and serve on hot buttered toast. If the mixture is allowed to boil, it will curdle, aud so be entirely spoiled. Time.—About 5 minutes to make the eggs hot. Average Cost, 7*/. Sufficient.—Allow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. 2619.—DUCKS’ EGGS. Duck’s eggs are usually so strong-flavoured that, plainly boiled, they are not good for eating; they answer, however, very well for various culinary preparations where eggs are re- quired, such as custards, &c. Being so large and highly- flavoured, r duck’s egg will go as far as 2 small hen’s eggs, besides making whatever they are mixed with ex- ducks egos Ceedingly rich, but they do not stiffen puddings, &c., as well as hens’ eggs.