Aromatic Viiieg&r. I5I9 receive the sun’s rays. At the end of the third or fourth day a number of particles of a fine yellow oily matter will float on the surface, which, after a day or two, will gather into a scum. This is the attar of roses. It must be taken up as often as it appears, with a piece of cotton tied to a stick, and squeezed from this into a small phial, which must be kept corked and tied over. 3381.-AROMATIC VINEGAR. Ingredients.—2 quarts of best vinegar, 2 oz. of sage-leaves, 2 02. of rosemary, 2 oz. of mint, 2 oz. of rue, and 2 oz. of wormwood, £ oz. of camphorated spirits of wine. Mode.—Put the vinegar, with the sage, rosemary, mint, rue and wormwood, into a jar, and let it stand by the side of the fire for a week ; then strain it, and add the spirits of wine. 3382.—ARECA NUT TOOTH-POWDER. Ingredients.—3 oz. of areca nut, 1 oz. of cuttlefish bone, cloves or cassia. Mode.—Reduce to a very fine charcoal 2} oz. of areca nut, and pound as finely as possible the other half oz. in its raw state. The cuttlefish bone must also be finely powdered. Mix these ingredients well together, and flavour with cloves or cassia according to taste. 3383— PRESERVATIVES AGAINST THE RAVAGES OF MOTHS. Place pieces of camphor, cedar-wood, Russia leather, tobacco-leaves, bog-myrtle, or anything else strongly aromatic, in the drawers or boxes where furs or other things to be preserved from moths are kept, and they will never take harm. 3384.—A PLEASANT PERFUME AND PREVENTIVE AGAINST MOTHS. Take of cloves, carraway-seeds, nutmeg, mace, cinnamon and Tonquin beans, of each 1 oz.; then add as much Florentine orris-root as will equal the other ingredients put together; grind the whole well to powder, and then put it in little bags among your clothes, &c. Almost anything aromatic will keep off moths. The common bog-myrtle, which grows so freely in swampy places, is an excellent antidote. A piece of linen, moistened with turpentine and put into the wardrobe or drawers for a single day, two or three times a year, is also a sufficient preservative against moths. 8 d