844 Recipes for Puddings and Pmtry. 1784.-RED GROATS PUDDING. (A Favourite German Dish.) Ingredients.—Ripe currants or raspberries, 1 pint of red wine, $ lb. of groats, sugar to taste. Mode.—Press the fruit in a sieve, then strain the juice, and add to each pint the same quantity of red wine. Sweeten the mixture well, then put it to boil in a clean saucepan. As soon as it boils, dredge or sprinkle in the groats (crushed wheat or barley will do equally weli); stir well till the mixture thickens, then pour it into a wet mould ; let it remain till perfectly cold, then turn on to a glass dish, and serve either with or without fruit sauce. Time.— \ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August. 1785.-HALF-PAY PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of suet, \ lb. of currants, \ lb. of raisins, £ lb. of flour, J lb. of bread-crumbs^ 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle, pint of milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely ; mix it with the currants, which should be nicely washed and dried, the raisins, which should be stoned, the flour, bread-crumbs and treacle ; moisten with the milk, beat up the ingredients until all are thoroughly mixed, put them into a buttered basin, and boil the pudding for 3^ hours. Time.—3i hours. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1786.-HERODOTUS PUDDING. Ingredients.—$ lb. of bread-crumbs, lb. of good figs, 6 oz. of suet, 6 oz. of moist sugar, | saltspoonful of salt, 3 eggs, nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Mince the suet and figs very finely; add the remaining ingre- dients, taking care that the eggs are well whisked; beat the mixture for a few minutes, put it into a buttered mould, tie it down with a floured cloth, and boil the pudding for 5 hours. Serve with wine sauce. Time.—5 hours. Average Cost, nd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1787.—HUNTER’S PUDDING. Ingredients.—I lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of bread-crumbs, lb. of moist sugar, 8 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of flour, £ lb. of mixed candied peel, 1 glass of brandy, 10 drops of essence of lemon, iQ drops of essence of almonds, | nutmeg, 2, blades of mace, 6 cloves.