750 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. tightly in a dish. These will be found a great improvement to rump- steak : they should be placed on a dish round a steak. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, from 4d. each. .. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable—Forced from the beginning of the year to the end of June; in full season in July and August. Properties and Uses of the Cucurbitacea.—The common cucumber is the C. sativus of science and although the whole of the family have a similar action i» the animal economy, yet there are some which present us with great anomalies. The roots of those which are perennial contain, besides fecula, which is their base, a resinous, acrid and bitter principle. The fruits of this family, however, have in general a sugary taste, and are more or less dissolving and perfumed, as we find in the melons, gourds, cucumbers, vegetable-marrows and squashes. But these are slightly laxative if partaken of largely. In tropical countries, this order lurnishes the inhabitants with a large portion of their food, which, even in the most arid deserts and most barren islands, is of the finest quality. In China, Cashmere and Persia, they are cultivated on the lakes on the floating collections of weeds common in these localities. In India they are everywhere abundant, either in a cultivated or wild state, and the seeds of all the family are sweet and mucilaginous. 1570.—STEWED CUCUMBERS. (Fr.—Concombres au Jus.) Ingredients.—3 large cucumbers, flour, butter, rather more than £pint of good brown gravy. Mode.—Cut the cucumbers lengthwise the size of the dish they are intended to be served in; empty them of the seeds and put them into boiling water, with a little salt, and let them simmer for 5 minutes : then take them out, place them in another stewpan, with the gravy, and let them boil over a brisk fire until the cucumbers are tender. Should these be bitter, add a lump of sugar; carefully dish them, skim the sauce, pour over the cucumbers and oerve. Time.—Altogether 20 minutes. Average Cost, from 4d. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August; but may be had, forced, from the beginning of the year. Tbe Ohate.—This cucumber is a native of Egypt and Arabia, and produces a fruit of almost the same substance as that of the melon. In Egypt it is esteemed by the upper class natives as well as by Europeans, as the most pleasant fruit they have. 157:.—STEWED CUCUMBERS WITH ONIONS. [Fv.—Concombres aux Oignons.) Ingredients.—6 cucumbers, 3 moderate-sized onions, not quite 1 pint of white stock, cayenne and salt to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Pare and slice the cucumbers, take out the seeds, and cut the onions into thin slices; put these both into a stewpan, with the stock, and let them boil for a quarter of an hour or longer, should the cucumbers be v'e'ry large. Beat trp th'e yolk's of 2 eggs; stir fh‘e‘s‘e into the satfce;