Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 320 Note.—This sauce may be poured hot over salad, and left to get quite cold, when it should be thick, smooth, and somewhat stiff. Excellent salads may be made of hard eggs, or the remains of salt fish flaked nicely from the bone, by pouring over a little of the above mixture when hot, and allowing it to cool. The Lemon.—This fruit is a native of Asia, and is mentioned by Virgil as an antidote to poison. It is hardier than the orange, and, as one of the citron tribe, was brought into Europe by the Arabians. The lemon was first cultivated in England in the begin- ning of the 17th century, and is now often to be found in our greenhouses. The kind commonly sold, however, is imported from Portugal, Spain and the Azores. Some also come from St. Helena; but those from Spain are esteemed the best. Its juice is now an essential for culinary purposes ; but as an anti-scorbutic its value is still greater. This juice, which is called citric acid., may be preserved in bottles for a considerable time, by covering it with a thin stratum of oil. Shrub is made from it with rum and sugar. THE LEMON. 704.—GREEN DUTCH SAUCE. (Fr.—Hollandaise Verte.) Ingredients.—6 tablespoonfuls of bechamel, No. 666; seasoning to faste of salt, and cayenne, a little parsley-green to colour, the juice of \ a lemon. Mode.—Put the bechamel into a saucepan with the seasoning, and bring it to a boil. Make a green colouring by pounding some parsley in a mortar, and squeezing all the juice from it. Let this just simmer, when add it to the sauce. A moment before serving, put in the lemon-juice, but not before; for otherwise the sauce would turn yellow, and its ap- pearance be thus spoiled. Average Cost, 4d. Bechamel Sauce.—This sauce takes its name from a Monsieur Bechamel, a rich French financier, whc, according to some authorities, invented it, whilst others affirm he only patro- nised it. Be this as it may, it is one of the most pleasant sauces which come to table, and should be most carefully and intelligently prepared. It is frequently used, as in the above recipe, as a principal ingredient and basis for other sauces. 705.-EEL SAUCE. Ingredients.— 1 lb. of eels, I slice each of bacon, and veal; 2 onions, 1 carrot,-1 glass of sherry, J pint of stock, 3 tarragon leaves, 1 clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, whole spice. Mode.—Cut the eels into 2-inch pieces, put them into a stewpan with the meat, onions, carrot and stock. Let them soak well for half an hour, then add the other ingredients and simmer half an hour, skimming carefully meanwhile, then drain through a sieve for use. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. per pint. Seasonable from June to March.