042 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. Mode.—Remove the breast and leg bones of the chickens; cut the meat into neat pieces after having skinned it, and season the cutlets with pepper, salt, pounded mace and cayenne. Put the bones, trimmings, &c., into a stewpan with one pint of water, adding carrots, onions and lemon-peel in the above proportion; stew gently for one hour and a half, and strain the gravy. Thicken it with butter and flour, add the ketchup and one egg well beaten ; stir it over the fire, and bring it to the simmer- ing point, but do not allow it to boil. In the meantime, egg and bread- crumb the cutlets, and give them a few drops of clarified butter ; fry them a delicate brown, occasionally turning them; arrange them in a circle on the dish, pour round them the sauce, and fill the centre with a macedoine or puree of vegetables. Time.—io minutes to fry the cutlets. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. each chicken. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable from April to July. Fowls as Food.—Brillat Savarin, pre-eminent in gastronomic taste, says that he believed the whole gallinaceous family was made to enrich our larders and furnish our tables ; for, from the quail to the turkey, he avers their flesh is a light aliment, full of flavour and fitted equally well for the invalid as for the man of robust health. The fine flavour, however, which Nature has given to all birds coming under the definition of poultry man has not been satisfied with, and has used many means—such as keeping them in solitude and darkness, and forcing them to eat—to give them an unnatural state of fatness or fat. This fat, thus artificially produced, is doubtless delicious, and the taste and succulence of the boiled and roasted bird draw forth the praise of the guests around the table. Well-fattened and tender, a fowl is to the cook what the canvas is to the painter j for do we not see it served boiled, roasted, fried, fricasseed, hashed, hot, cold, whole, dismembered, boned, broiled, stuffed on dishes, and in pies—always handy and ever acceptable ? The C mtnon or Domestic Fowl.—From time immemorial, the common or domestic fowl has been domesticated in England, and is supposed to be originally the offspring of some wild species which abound in the forests of India. It is divided into a variety of breeds but the most esteemed are, the Poland, or Black, the Dorking, the Bantum, the Game Fowl, and the Malay or Chittagong. The common, or barn-door fowl, is one of the most delicate of the varieties ; and at Dorking, in Surrey, the breed is brought to great perfection. Till they are four months old, the term chicken is applied to the young female ; after that age they are called pullets, till they begin to lay, when they are called hens. The English counties most productive in poultry are Surrey, Sussex, Norfolk, Herts, Devon and Somerset. 1341.—FRENCH CHICKEN CUTLETS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Volaille ) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled fowl, fried bread, clarified butter, the yolk of 1 egg, bread-crumbs, ^ teaspoonful of finely- minced lemon peel; salt, cayenne and mace to taste. For sauce:—1 oz. of butter, 2 minced shalots, a few slices of carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley; 1 blade of pounded mace, 6 peppercorns, £ pint of gravy. Mode.—Cut the fowls into as many nice cutlets as possible; take a corresponding number of sippets about the same size, all cut one shape;