748 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables, Mode.—Wash the celery, strip off the outer leaves, and cut it into lengths of about four inches. Put these into a saucepan with the broth, and stew till tender, which will be in from twenty to twenty-five minutes; then add the remaining ingredients, simmer altogether for four or five minutes, pour into a dish, and serve. It may be garnished with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to April. Note.—By cutting the celery into smaller pieces, by stewing it a little longer, and, when done, by pressing it through a sieve, the above stew may be converted into a puree of celery. Celery is also good cooked like cauliflower au gratin. No. 1561. 1566—BAKED CUCUMBERS. (Fr.—Concombres Farcies.) Ingredients.—3 large cucumbers, £ lb. of cold mutton,' £ lb. of cold ham, 1 onion, parsley, 1 dessertspoonful of chutney, pepper and salt, £ pint of rich gravy. Mode.—Pare the cucumbers, cut off the bitter ends and scoop out the seeds with a teaspoon. Mix the seeds with the ham and mutton finely minced, adding the seasoning and herbs. Fill the cucumbers with the mince, pour in a little cold gravy, then put them in a baking-dish and bake for 30 minutes, basting occasionally with gravy. Serve hot. Time.—30 minutes. Average Cost, frame cucumbers, when cheapest, 4d. each. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonble.—May be had forced from the beginning of the year, 1567.-TO DRESS CUCUMBERS. (Fr.—Concom bres h 1’Huile.) Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste ; cucumber. Mode.—Pare the cucumber, cut it equally into very thin slices, and commence cutting from the thick end; if commenced at the stalk, the cucumber will most likely have an exceedingly bitter taste, far from agreeable. Put the slices into a dish, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and pour over oil and vinegar in the above proportion; turn the cucumber about, and it is ready to serve. This is a favourite accompaniment to SLICED CUCUMBER.