765 Baked Potatoes. any that are worm-eaten or discoloured. Tie them loosely in a clean cloth, leaving a little room for them to swell, and put them on to boil in cold rain-water, allowing two hours and a half after the water has sim- mered up. When the peas are tender, take them up and drain; rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon; add the butter, eggs, pepper and salt; beat all well together for a few minutes, until the ingredients are well incorporated; then tie them tightly in a floured cloth ; boil the pudding for another hour, turn it on to the dish, and serve very hot. This pudding should always be sent to table with boiled pork. It may be made without butter or eggs. Time.—2^ hours to boil the peas, tied loosely in the cloth ; 1 hour for the pudding. Average Cost, td. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to March. 1601.—BAKED POTATOES. (Fr.—Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—Potatoes. Mode.—Choose large potatoes, as much of a size as possible; wash them in lukewarm water, and scrub them well, for the browned skin of a baked potato is by many persons considered the better part of it. Put them into a moderate oven, and bake them for about two hours, turning them three or four times whilst they are cooking. Serve them in a napkin immediately they are done, as, if kept a long time in the oven, they have a shrivelled IN NAPKIN- appearance. Potatoes may also be roasted before the fire, in an American oven; but when thus cooked, they must be done very slowly. Do not forget to send to table with them a piece of cold butter. Time.— Large potatoes, in a hot oven, i-j hour to 2 hours, in a cool oven, 2 to 2w hours. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 2 to each person. Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season. Potato Sugar —This sugar substance, found In the tubes of potatoes, is obtained in the fofm of syrfp or treacle® It resembles grape-sugar is not crystalhaable and is less-sweet than ranpqugar It is used to make sweetmeats, and as a substitute for honey. sixty pounas of potatoes yielding eight pounds of dry starch, will produce seven and a half pounds of sugar. ?nR,,«ifitU extensively made, as good, though of less consistency than the treacle obtained from caTe^sugar A cheap and common spirit is also distilled from the tubers, which resembles brandv but is milder and has a flavour as if it were charged with the odour of violets or rasp- berries’ In France this manufacture is carried on pretty extensively, and five hundred pounds the tubers will produce twelve quarts of the spirits, the pulp being given to catt e.