RECIPES FOR COOKING POULTRY. CHAPTER XXIV. 1282.—CHICKEN OR FOWL PIE. (Fr.—Pat6 de Volaille.) Ingredients.—2 small fowls or 1 large one, white pepper and salt to taste, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, ^ teaspoonful of pounded mace, forcemeat, No. 629, a few slices of ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, £ pint of water, puff crust. Mode.—Skin and cut up the fowls into joints, and put the neck, legs and backbones in a stewpan, with a little water, an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a blade of mace; let these stew for about an hour, and, when done, strain off the liquor: this is for gravy. Put a layer of fowl at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of ham, then one of force- meat and hard-boiled eggs cut in rings; between the layers put a season- ing of pounded mace, nutmeg, pepper and salt. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, and pour in about half a pint of water; border the edge of the dish with puff-crust, put on the cover, ornament the top, and glaze it by brushing over it the yolk of an egg. Bake from to i| hour, should the pie be very large, and, when done, pour in, at the top, the gravy made from the bones. If to be eaten cold, and wished particularly nice, the joints of the fowls should be boned, and placed in the dish with alternate layers of forcemeat; sausage-meat may also be substituted for the forcemeat, and is now very much used. When the chickens are boned and mixed with sausage-meat, the pie will take about 2 hours to bake. It should be covered with a piece of paper when about half done, to prevent the paste from being dried up or scorched. Time.—For a pie with unboned meat, i£ to hour; with boned meat and sausage or forcemeat, i| to 2 hours.—Average Cost, with 2 fowls, 6s. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Young Chicks —The young chicks that are hatched first should be taken from underneath the hen, lest she might think her task at an end, and leave the remaining eggs to spoil. As soon as the young birds are taken from the mother, they must be placed in a basket lined with soft