66 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. prices from 26s. 6d. to 475., according to size. 5. Warren's Patent Boiler. For making beef tea, soup, and broth for invalids, and for boiling milk, nothing can be better than the Patent Boiler, expressly constructed for these purposes, the vessel in which the water is placed containing 3 gallons, and the cooker, or receptacle for meat, milk, &c., 1 gallon. It is supplied at 33s. It is furnished with a. tap for drawing off the water when done with. 6. Warren’s Invalid's Cook- ing Pot. This is an admirably contrived utensil that is most desirable for invalid cooking, and might even be used in the sick-room. It is 10 inches in diameter and costs 13s., but larger sizes are made to order at a corresponding increase in price. Small joints, fowls, a pair of pigeons, or any choice dish for a delicate appetite may be prepared in it, and the full flavour of the meat and all the nutriment contained in it will be retained unimpaired and undiminished. Food prepared in it will appear as if stewed or boiled, but if the appearance of roast meat is desired, it may be browned in a few minutes in the ordinary way. Excellent soup or beef tea may be made in it, nothing being lost by evaporation. 117. Principle of the Process.—By means of Captain Warren s cooking pots an inexperienced cook or general servant may send to table a well-cooked dinner without difficulty. The peculiarity of the process consists in cooking without the viands coming in contact with water or steam ; the meat, kept from water entirely, is cooked in an inner cylinder, the outer one, containing the water, being kept at the boiling point. The food thus prepared is cooked in its own vapour, and none of its nutritious properties are wasted. The well-known fact that meat cooked by the ordinary methods of roasting or boiling loses a large portion both in bulk and weight, as well as some very important chemical qualities, is of itself sufficient recommendation to make use of Captain Warren’s invention. Cooking meats in the ordinary way produces the following results:— By Roasting Meat loses J of the original weight, or 5 J oz. in the lb. By Boiling Meat loses 4? oz. in the lb. By Baking Meat loses 3 $ oz. in the lb. It has been proved, by repeated trials, that meat, fish and poultry, when cooked in a Warren’s Pot, retain those nourishing juices which, if cooked in the ordinary method, would have been thrown off in vapour; but which by this mode become copdensed, and are returned in moisture at a temperature sufficient to cook in the most perfect manner. To the poor, as well as the rich, this invention is likely to prove a great boon. The following brief directions are all that are required for the use of Warren’s Pots:— ( x.) The water in the saucepan or pot, as shown in the illustration of the Round Cooking Pot in page 65, should be high enough to touch the bottom of the en- closed pot, B. ( 2.) Meat to be dressed must be placed in the pot b without water, and the cover put on, with the pipe inserted in the tube ; or if the steamer, c, be used, then the steam-tube at the bottom must be carefully inserted in the tube of b. ( 3.) After bringing the water to the boil, the saucepan must be placed at the side of the fire, near enough to keep it boiling. (4.) The pots, when notin use, should be kept perfectly dry and uncovered. 118. Perkins’ Patent Sanitary Seamless Steel Utensils.—The Patent Sanitary Seamless Steel Cooking Utensils, introduced and manufactured by the patentees, Messrs. B. Perkins and Son 139, Cannon Street, London, E.C., which obtained a silver medal at the Health Exhibition, South Kensington, in 1885, are infinitely superior to ordinary cooking utensils which fulfil the same pur- poses, on account of their strength, durability and cleanliness. Being made of