290 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Mode.—Wash the feet of the fowls thoroughly clean, and cut them and- the neck into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with the bread, onion, herbs, seasoning, livers and gizzards; pour the water over them, and simmer gently for 1 hour. Now take out the liver, pound it, and strain the liquor to it. Add a thickening of butter and flour, and a flavour- ing of mushroom ketchup ; boil it up and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 4d. per pint. 619.—GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (Fr.—Jus de Viande.) Ingredients.—Gravy, salt. Mode.—Put a common dish with a small quantity of salt in it under the meat, about a quarter of an hour before it is removed from the fire. When the dish is full, take it away, baste the meat, and pour the gravy into the dish on which the joint is to be served. Sauces and Gravies in the Middle Ages.—Neither poultry, butcher’s meat, nor roast game were eaten dry in the Middle Ages, any more than fried fish is now. Different sauces, each hav- ing its own peculiar flavour, were served with all these dishes, and even with the various parts of each animal. Strange and grotesque sauces, as, for example, “eggs cooked on the spit,’’ “ butter fried and roasted,” were invented by the cooks of those days ; but these preparations had hardly any other merit than that of being surprising and difficult to make. 620.—GRAVY FOR VENISON. (Fr.— Sauce pour Venaison.) Ingredients.—Trimmings of venison, 3 or 4 mutton shank-bones, salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut ketchup. Mode.—Brown the trimmings over a nice clear fire, and put them in a stewpan with the shank-bones and water; simmer gently for 2 hours, strain and skim, and add the walnut ketchup and a seasoning of salt. Let it just boil, when it is ready to serve. Time.—2 hours. Venison.—Far, far away in ages ptast, our fathers loved the chase and what it brought; and it is usually imagined that when Isaac ordered his son Esau to go out with his weapons, his quiver and his bow, and to prepare for him savoury meat, such as he loved, it was venison he desired. The wise Solomon, too, delighted in this kind of fare; for we learn that at his table, every day were served the wild ox, the roe- buck and the stag. Xenophon informs us, in his History, that Cyrus, King of Persia, ordered that venison should never be wanting at his repasts; and of the effeminate Greeks it was the delight. The Romans, also, were devoted ad- mirers of the flesh of the deer ; and our own kings and princes, from the Great Alfred down to the late Prince Consort, have hunted although it must be confessed, under vastly different cir- cumstances, the swift buck, and relished their “ haunch ” all the more keenly that the'' had borne themselves bravely in the pursuit of the animal. THE DEER. 621.—JUGGED GRAVY. (Excellent.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 5 lb. of lean ham, 1 onion or a few shaiots, 2 pints of water, salt and whole pepper to taste, 1 blade of mace, a faggot of savoury herbs, £ a large carrot, £ a head of celerv.