Knuckle oj Vsal, 447 peel, Jteaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of parsley, £ teaspoonful of pepper. Mode.—Mince the bacon and liver finely, then add the remaining in- gredients and incorporate thoroughly. Beat the eggs thoroughly, then moisten the mixture with them and encase it in the skins ; fry them with a little butter or lard in the pan, of a nice rich brown, pricking the skins with a fork to prevent their bursting. Serve on toast or with mashed potatoes. Time.—10 to 12 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Note.—Calfs liver stuffed with forcemeat, No. 629, to which has been added a little fat bacon, will be found a very savoury dish. It should be larded or wrapped in buttered paper, and roasted before a clear fire. Brown gravy and currant jelly should be served with it. 994—FILLET OF VEAL WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE. (Fr.—Rouelle de Veau au Bechamel.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, No. 665, a few bread-crumbs, clarified butter. Mode.—A fillet of veal that has been roasted the preceding day will answer very well for this dish. Cut the middle out rather deep, leaving a good margin round, from which to cut nice slices, and, if there should be any cracks in the veal, fill them up with forcemeat. Mince finely the meat that was taken out, mixing with it a little of the forcemeat to flavour, and stir to it sufficient bechamel to make it of a proper con- sistency. Warm the veal in the oven for about an hour, taking care to baste it well, that it may not be dry; put the mince in the place where the meat was taken out, sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over it, and drop a little clarified butter on the bread-crumbs; put it into the oven for a quarter of an hour to brown, and pour bechamel (sauce, No. 665) round the sides of the dish. Time.—Altogether 14 hour. Average Cost, 10\d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 995.—TO RAGOUT A KNUCKLE OF VEAL. (Fr.—Jarret de Veau.) Ingredients.—Knuckle of veal, pepper and salt to taste, flour, 1 onion, 1 head of celery, or a little celery-seed, a faggot of savoury herbs. 2 blades of pounded mace, thickening of butter and flour, a few