Fried Whitebait. 273 Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficient, 1 for each person. The Whiting, Pout and Pollack.—About the mouth of the Thames, and generally all round the English coasts, as well as in the northern seas, the pout is plentiful. It bears a striking re- semblance to the whiting, and is esteemed as an excellent fish. The pollack is also taken all round our coasts, and likewise bears a striking resemblance to the whiting; indeed, it is some- times mistaken by the inexperienced for that fish; its flesh being considered by many equally delicate. 583.—TO DRESS WHITEBAIT. (Fr.—Blanchaille.) Ingredients.—A little flour, hot lard, seasoning of salt. Mode.—These fish should be put into iced water as soon as bought unless they are cooked immediately. Drain them from the water in a colander, and have ready a nice clean, dry cloth, over which put 2 good handfulls of flour. Lay out the whitebait one by one, shake them lightly in the cloth, and put them in a wicker sieve to take away the superfluous flour. Have a pan of oil or clarified fat and make it as hot as possible without burning. Put the fish, not too many at a time, in the wire frying basket, and plunge it in the fat. They will be done in about fifteen seconds, and should be a very pale colour. Turn them out on paper and serve immediately in relays very hot. Devilled whitebait are cooked to a darker shade and sprinkled with cayenne as they are sent to table. Failing a basket they must be taken out with a slice, but they will not in that case be done so well. Dish them on a fish paper, arrange the fish very high in the centre, and sprinkle a little salt over the whole. Serve with a cut lemon and thin slices of brown bread and butter, and garnish with fried parsley. Time.—1 minute. Average Cost, is. to 2s. per pint. Seasonable from January to September. Whitebait.—This highly-esteemed little fish appears in innumerable multitudes in the river Thames, near Green- wich and Blackwall, during the month of July, when it forms, served with lemon and brown bread and butter, a tempting dish to vast numbers of Londoners, who flock to the various taverns of these places in order to gratify their appetites. The fish has been supposed to be the fry of the shad, the sprat, the smelt, or the bleak. Mr. Yarrell, how. ever, maintains that it is a species in itself, distinct from every other fish. When fried with flour, it is esteemed a great delicacy. The Ministers cf the Crown have had a custom, for many years, of having a “ whitebait dinner ’’ just before the close of the session. It is invariably the precursor of the prorogation of Parliament, and the repast is provided by the proprietor of the “ Trafalgar,” Greenwich. 584.—FISH PIE OF TENCH AND EELS. (Fr.-Pate de Tanche.) Ingredients.—2 tench, 2 eels, 2 onions, a faggot of herbs, 4 blades of mace, 3 anchovies, 1 pint of water, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs, puff paste. WHITEBAIT.