Boiled Turkey. 635 Seasonable from December to February. 1329.-BOILED TURKEY. (Fr.—Dinde Farcie.) Ingredients.—Turkey; forcemeat, No. 629. Mode.—Having trussed and stuffed the bird, put it into sufficient hot water to cover it; let it come to a boil, then carefully remove all the scum : if this is attended to, there is no occasion to boil the bird in a floured cloth; but it should be well covered with the water. Let it simmer very gently for about an hour and a half to one hour and three quarters, according to the size, and serve with either white, celery, oyster or mushroom sauce, or parsley-and-butter, a little of which should be poured over the turkey. Boiled ham, bacon, tongue or pickled pork should always accompany this dish ; and when oyster sauce is served the turkey should be stuffed with oyster forcemeat. Time.—A small turkey, hour ; a large one, hour. Average Cost, 7s. 6d. to 10s. 6d. each ; but more expensive at Christmas, on account of the great demand. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Note.—Hen turkeys are preferable for boiling, on account of their whiteness and tenderness, and one of moderate size should be selected, as a large one is not suitable for this mode of cooking. They should not be dressed until they have been killed 3 or 4 days, as they will neither look white nor will they be tender. The Turkey.—The turkey, for which fine bird we are indebted to America, is certainly one of the most glorious presents made by the New World to the Old. Some, indeed, assert that this bird was known to the ancients, and that it was served at the wedding-feast of Charlemagne. This opinion, however, has been controverted by first-rate authorities, who declare that the French name of the bird, dindon, proves its origin ; that the form of the bird is altogether foreign, and that it is found in America alone in a wild state. There is but little doubt, from the infor- mation which has been gained at considerable trouble, that it appeared generally in Europe about the end of the 17th century ; that it was first imported into France by Jesuits who had bfen sent out missionaries to the West ; and that from France it spread over Europe. To this day, in many localities in France a turkey is called a Jesuit. On the farms of North America, where turkeys are very common, they are raised either from eggs which have been found, or from young ones caught in the woods ; they thus preserve almost entirely their original plumage. The turkey only became gradually acclimated, both on the Continent and in England ; in the middle of the 18th century scarcely ro out of 20 young turkeys lived; now, generally speaking, 15 out of the same number arrive at maturity. 1330.—DEVILLED TURKEY (Dry). (Fr. — Dinde a la Diable.) Ingredients.—2 turkey-legs, made mustard, pepper, salt, cayenne. Mode.—Score the legs in deep gashes, in regular lines, both along and across ; prepare and salt these, adding cayenne, when liked very hot. Cover them with made mustard, pressing it well into the openings, and let it remain until the next morning. Have a bright clear fire, and grill it until the outside is crisp and brown. Place small pieces of cold butter on it, and serve quickly. BOILED TURKEY.