70 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. •winding up, which operation must be repeated once or twice during the time the meat is cooking. A bottle-jack complete, capable of carrying a joint of 20 lbs., may be had for gs. 6d. This bottle-jack is large enough for ordinary family use; but larger sizes, to carry from 25 to 70 lbs., may be had for 11s. 6d., 15s., 18s. 6d. and 23s. 127. illlent Screen.—When the meat is roasting, a meat screen should be placed in front of the fire, to condense the heat as much as possible. This kind of screen is shown in the illustration given in page 69. It is made of wood, lined with tin, and is fitted with two shelves, which act as warmers for the plates and dishes. A meat screen with two shelves, as shown in the illustration, and 3 feet in width, costs 485. ; 3 feet 9 inches, 655. A larger and stronger wooden meat screen, lined with tin and having a hot closet and one wrought iron shelf, 4 feet wide and 4 feet 3 inches high, may be had for £8 15s., or with two shelves, £9 5s. Still larger screens are made, having a hot closet and two wrought iron shelves, ranging in width from 4 feet 6 inches to 5 feet, may be had at prices ranging from £11 ios. to £14 1 os. An improved meat screen, also illustrated in page 69, is manufactured by Messrs. Henry Loveridge and Co., in the top of which the bottle-jack is placed, and which is higher than the meat-screen illustrated above. It is made of the best tinned iron, and supplied with a shelf for plates, and brass bottle-jack and dripping-pan. Complete in three widths of 24, 30 and 36 inches, sold at 90s., nos. and 125s. These screens present a handsome appearance, being grained in oak outside. Round screens known as bottle-jack screens, having bands at the top, from which the bottle-jack is suspended, and a dripping-pan in the bottom, are sold in three sizes, varying in price, according to stoutness of make as follows; No. 1, from 15s. 6d. to 36s.; No 2, from 20s. to 42s.; and No. 3, from 30s. to 50s. 128. The Dripping-pan.—This is a receptacle for the droppings of fat and gravy that fall from the roast meat. In some cases it forms an integral part of the meat screen, but when it is separate from it, it is supported on an iron stand, as shown in the illustration given in page 69. The pan is arranged with a well in the centre, covered with a lid ; round this well is a series of small holes, which allow the dripping to pass into the well free from cinders or ashes. When the meat is required to be basted, the lid of the well is lifted up, and the surface of the joint is moistened with the dripping, which is free from impurities, to pre- vent it from scorching. The basting-ladle used to apply the dripping to the meat is half covered over at the top with a piece of metal perforated with small h^les. so that should a small piece of cinder get into the ladle it will lodge there and not fall on the meat. Dripping-pans of block tin with wells, are made in four sizes, ranging in price from 3s. 6d. to 7s. Wrought iron stands for these dripping-pans cost from 5s. to 6;. 6d., and basting ladles from is. 3d. to 2s. Extra strong wrought iron dripping-pans with wells, and mounted on wrought iron legs, range in size from 2 feet 6 inches to 4 feet in length, and cost from 33s. to 90s., according to size. Strong wrought iron basting ladles to accompany these appliances, are made in three sizes, namely 4 inches in diameter, 4^ inches and 5 inches, costing 5s., 5s. 6d. and 6s. respectively. 129. Double Baking-pan and Stand.—Closely akin to the dripping- >pan used in open-fire roasting is the double baking-pan and stand used in ranges and kitcheners for baking meat, poultry, &c. These are usually supplied with ranges and kitcheners when first purchased; but sometimes it is necessary to renew them, or to provide them when on removal to another house the pan be- longing to the range is found to be missing, as it sometimes is. This utensil is shown in the illustration given in page 69. The lower pan contains water which may be added at pleasure, through the opening shown in the lower right-hand