689 Potted Venison, Time.—Altogether hour. Seasonable.—Buck-venison, from June to Michaelmas ; doe-venison from November to the end of January. Note.—A small quantity of Harvey’s sauce, ketchup or port, may be added to enrich the gravy : these ingredients must, however, be used very sparingly, or they will overpower the flavour of the venison. Tha Fallow Deer.—This is the domestic or park deer; and no two animals can make a nearer approach to each other than the stag and it, and yet no two animals keep more distinct, or avoid each other with a more inveterate animosity. They never herd or intermix together, and conse- quently never give rise to an intermediate race: it is even rare unless they have been trans- ported thither to find fallow-deer in a country where stags are numerous. This deer.is very easily FALLOW DEER (BUCK). FALLOW DEER (DOE) tamed, and feeds upon many things which the stag refuses: he also browses closer than the stag, and preserves his venison better. The doe produces one fawn, sometimes two, but rarely three. In short, they resemble the stag in all his natural habits, and the greatest difference between them is the duration of theirlives: the stag, it is said, lives to the age of thirty-five or forty years, and the fallow-deer does not live more than twenty. As they are smaller than the stag, it is prob- able that their growth is sooner completed. 1418.-POTTED VENISON. Ingredients.—Venison, coarse flour-and-water paste, 1 lb. of butter, h pint of port, pepper, salt, pounded mace. Mode.—Put some slices of venison into a tin baking-dish, pour the wine over them till they are just covered, then add the butter and put a cover of coarse paste on top. Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. Then remove the meat from the dish, pound it well with the butter which will have risen to the top, add the seasoning and put the mixture into pots. Put them into the oven for 15 minutes, take them out, and when cold pour clarified butter on the top. Time.—i£ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. per lb. Seasonable.—Buck-venison from June to Michaelmas; doe-venison from -November to the end of January.