Mushroom Ketchup. 1043 2263.—MUSHROOM KETCHUP. Ingredients.—To each peck of mushrooms £ lb. of salt; to each quart of mushroom-liquor £ oz. of cayenne, £ oz. of allspice, ^ oz. of ginger, 2 blades of pounded mace. Mode.—Choose full-grown mushroom-flaps, and take care they are perfectly fresh gathered when the weather is tolerably dry ; for, if they are picked during very heavy rain, the ketchup from which they are made is liable to get musty and will not keep long. Put a layer of them in a deep pan, sprinkle salt over them, and then another layer of mushrooms, and so on alternately. Let them remain for a few hours, when break them up; put them in a nice cool place for 3 days, occasionally stirring and mashing them well, to extract from them as much juice as possible. Now measure the quantity of liquor without straining, and to each quart allow the above proportion of spices, &c. Put all into a stone jar, cover it up very closely, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, set it over the fire, and let it boil for 3 hours. Have ready a nice clean stewpan ; turn into it the contents of the jar, and let the whole simmer very gently for half an hour ; pour it into a jug, where it should stand in a cool place till the next day ; then pour it off into another jug, and strain it into very dry clean bottles, and do not squeeze the mushrooms. To each pint of ketchup add a few drops of brandy. Be careful not to shake the contents, but leave all the sediment behind in the jug; cork w'ell, and either seal or rosin the cork, so as perfectly to exclude the air. When a very clear bright ketchup is wanted, the liquor must be strained through a very fine hair-sieve, or flannel bag, after it has been very gently poured off; if the operation is not successful, it must be repeated until you have quite a clear liquor. II should be examined occasionally, and if it is spoiling, should be re-boiled with a few peppercorns. Seasonable from the beginning of September to the middle of October, when this ketchup should be made. Note.—This flavouring ingredient, if genuine and well prepared, is one of the most useful store sauces to the experienced cook, and no trouble should be spared in its preparation. Double ketchup is made by reducing the liquor to half the quantity; for example, i quart must be boiled down to i pint. This goes farther than ordinary ketchup, as so little is required to flavour a good quantity of gravy. The sediment may also be bottled for immediate use, and will be found to answer for flavouring thick soups or gravies. How tr Distinguish Mushrooms from Toadstools.—The cultivated mushroom, known as Agaricus campostris, may be distinguished from the poisonous kinds of fungi by its having pink orflesh-coloured gills, or under side, and by its invariably having an agreeable smell, which the toadstool has not. When young, mushrooms are like a small round button, both the 9talk and head being white. As they grow larger, they expand their heads by degrees into a flat form, the gills underneath being at first of a pale flesh-colour, but becoming, as they stand longer, dark brown or blackish. Nearly all the poisonous kinds are brown, and have in general a rank and putrid smell. Edible mushrooms are found in closely-fed pastures, but seldom grow in woods, where most of the poisonous sorts are to be found.