676 Recipes for Cooking Game. mountainous countries, and, in summer, frequently descending to the lower lands, to feed upon corn. The red grouse, gor-cock, <sr moor-cock, weighs about nineteen ounces, and the female somewhat less. In the wild heathy tracts of the northern counties of England it is plentiful, also in Wales and the Highlands of Scotland. Mr. Pennant considered it peculiar to Britain, those found in the mountainous parts of Spain, France and Italy, being only varieties of the same bird. White grouse, white game, or ptarmigan, is nearly the same size as the red grouse, and is found in lofty situations, where it supports itself in the severest weather. It is to be met with in most of the northern countries of Europe, and appears even in Greenland. In the Hebrides, Orkneys and the Highlands of Scotland, it is also found ; and sometimes, though rarely, among the fells of Northumberland and Cumberland. In winter they fly in flocks, and are so little familiar with the sight of man, that they are easily shot or even snared. They feed on the wild produce of the hills, which sometimes imparts to their flesh a bitter but not unpalatable taste. According to Buffon, it is dark-coloured, and flavoured somewhat like the hare. 1396.-GROUSE SALAD. (Fr.—Salade de Gibier.) (Soyer’s Recipe improved.) Ingredients.—8 eggs, butter, fresh salad, 2 or 3 grouse. For the sauce: 1 tablespoonful of minced shalot, 2 tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, J oz. of salt, 12 table- spoonfuls of oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, 1 gill of cream, 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped tarragon and chervil. Mode.—Boil the eggs hard, shell them, throw them into cold water, cut a thin slice off the bottom to facilitate the proper placing of them in the dish, cut each one into four, lengthwise, and make a very thin flat border of butter, about one inch from the edge of the dish the salad is to be served on ; fix the pieces of egg upright, close to each other, the yolk outside, 01 the yolk and white alternately ; lay in the centre a fresh salad of whatever is in season, and, having previously roasted the grouse, rather underdone, cut it into eight or ten pieces, and prepare the sauce as follows :—Put the shalots into a basin, with the sugar, the yolk of an egg, the parsley and salt, and mix in by degrees the oil and vinegar ; when all the ingredients are well mixed, put the sauce on ice or in a cool place. When ready to serve, whip the cream rather thick, which lightly mix with it; then lay the inferior parts of the grouse on the salad, sauce over so as to cover each piece, then lay over the salad and the remainder of the grouse, pour the rest of the sauce over, and serve. The eggs may be ornamented with a little dot of radishes or beetroot on the point. Anchovy and gherkin, cut into small diamonds, may be placed between; or cut gherkins in slices, and a border of them laid round. Tarragon or chervil-leaves are also a pretty addition. The remains of cold black-game, pheasant or partridge may be used in the above manner, and will make a very delicate dish. Seasonable from the 12th of August to the beginning of December. The Capercalzie.—This bird was to be met with formerly both in Ireland and Scotland, but is how extinct. The male lives separate from the females, except in the breeding season. Its manners and habits are very like those of black grouse, except that it seems to be wholly confined to forests of pine, on the tender shoots of which it feeds. It is by no means uncommon in the woods of Norway, whence we received it. It is also found abundant in Russia, Siberia, Italy,