8y6 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. cult operation as when it is moulded by the hand. It is an elegant and inexpensive entree, as the remains of cold fish, flesh, or fowl may be served as ragouts, fricassees, &c., enclosed in the casserole. It requires great nicety in its preparation, the principal thing to attend to being the boiling of the rice, as if this is not sufficiently cooked, the casse- casserole of rice. roi6) when moulded, will have a rough appearance which would entirely spoil it. After having washed the rice in two or three waters, drain it well, and put it into a stewpan with the stock, ham and salt; cover the pan closely, and let the rice gradually swell over a slow fire, occasionally stirring, to prevent its sticking. When it is quite soft, strain it, pick out the pieces of ham, and with the back of a large wooden spoon, mash the rice to a perfectly smooth paste. Then well grease a mould (moulds are purposely made for rice borders), and turn it upside down for a minute or two, to drain away the fat, should there be too much ; put some rice all round the bottom and sides of it; place a piece of soft bread in the middle, and cover it with rice ; press it in equally with the spoon, and let it cool. Then dip the mould into hot water, turn the casserole carefully on to a dish, mark where the lid is to be formed on the top, by making an incision with the point of a knife about an inch from the edge all round, and put it into a very hot oven. Brush it over with a little clarified butter, and bake about half an hour, or rather longer ; then carefully remove the lid, which will be formed by the incision having been made all round, and remove the bread, in small pieces, with the point of a penknife, being careful not to injure the casse- role. Fill the centre with the ragout or fricassee, which should be made thick ; put on the cover, glaze it, place it in the oven to set the glaze, and serve as hot as possible. The casserole should not be emptied too much, as it is liable to crack from the weight of whatever is put in ; and in baking it, let the oven be very hot, or the casserole will probably break. Time.—About f hour to swell the rice. Average Cost, is. xod. Sufficient for 2 moderate-sized casseroles. Seasonable at any time. 1865.-SWEET CASSEROLE OF RICE. (Fr.—Casserole au Riz.) Ingredients.—1| lb. of rice, 3 pints of milk, sugar to taste, flavouring of bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—This is made in precisely the same manner as a savoury casse- role, only substituting the milk and sugar for the stock and salt. Put the milk into a stewpan, with sufficient essence of bitter almonds to flavour it well; then add the rice, which should be washed, picked and