loi2 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. stalks on ; put them into a lined saucepan with the above ingredients, and let them simmer very gently until tender, which will be in from 3 to 4 hours, according to the quality of the pears. They should be watched, and, when done, care- fully lifted out on to a glass dish without break- ing them. Boil up the syrup quickly for 2 or 3 minutes; allow it to cool a little, pour it over the pears, and let them get perfectly cold. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added, which rather enhances the beauty of this dish. The fruit must not be boiled fast, but only simmered, and watched that it be net too much done. Time.—3 to 4 hours. Average Coat, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to January. The Bon Chretien Pear.—The valuable variety of pear, called Bon Chretien, which comes to our table in winter, either raw or cooked, received its name through the following incident:— Louis XL, King of France,had sent for St. Francis de Paule from the lower part of Calabria, in the hopes of recovering his health through his intercession. The saint brought with him the seeds of this pear ; and as he was called at court Le Bon Chritien, this fruit obtained the name of him to whom France owed its introducti on. 2190.—PINEAPPLE CHIPS. Ingredients.—Pineapples; sugar to taste. Mode.—Pare and slice the fruit thinly, put it on dishes, and stfew ovef it plenty of pounded sugar. Keep it in a hot closet, or very slow oven, eight or ten days, and turn the fruit every day until dry; then put the pieces of pine on tins, and place them in a quick oven for ten minutes. Let them cool, and store them away in dry boxes with paper between each layer. Time.—8 to 10 days. Seasonable.—Foreign pines, in July and August. 2191.—PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed after being pared, allow t lb. of loaf sugar; £ pint of water. Mode.—The pines for making this preserve should be perfectly sound, but ripe. Cut them into rather thick slices, as the fruit shrinks very much in the boiling. Pare off the rind carefully, that none of the pine be wasted; and, in doing so, notch it in and out, as the edge cannot be smoothly cut without great waste. Dissolve a portion of the sugar in a preserving-pan with J pint of water ; when this is melted gradually add the remainder of the sugar, and boil it until it forms a clear syrup, skim- tning well. As soon as thie is the case, put in the pieces of pine, and boil