Xi 12 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2456— SODA BISCUITS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, | lb. of pounded loaf sugar, f lb. ol fresh butter, 2 eggs, 1 small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Put the flour (which should be perfectly dry) into a basin ; rub in the butter, add the sugar, and mix these ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, stir them into the mixture, and beat it well until everything is well incorpo-ated. Quickly stir in the soda, roll the paste out until it is about half an inch thick, cut it into small round cakes with a tin cutter, and bake them from 12 to 18 minutes in rather a brisk oven. After the soda is added, great expedition is necessary in rolling and cutting out the paste, and in putting the biscuits immediately into the oven, or thev will be heavy. Time.—12 to 18 minutes. Average Cost, lod. Sufficient to make about 3 dozen cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2457 -VIRGINIA BISCUITS. Ingredients.—Take I quart of flour, I tablespoonful of butter, 1 table- spoonful of lard, 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—Work the butter and lard into the flour; add the salt, and moisten with cold water to a stiff paste. Beat this till it bubbles; make in small biscuits and prick with a fork. The more beating, the better the biscuit. Bake a quarter of an hour. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, 4d. Seasonable at any time. 2458.—ALMOND CAKE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of sweet almonds, 1 oz. of bitter almonds, 6 eggs, 8 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls of fine flour, the grated rind of a lemon, 3 oz. of butter. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a paste; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs ; beat the latter, and add them to the almonds. Stir in the sugar, flour and lemon-rind; add the butter, which should be beaten to a cream; and when all these ingredients are well mixed, put in the whites of the eggs, which should be whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a cake-mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a good oven from if to if hour. Time.—if to if hour. Average Cost, is. yl