S/0 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. Time.—Large pie, 4 hours. Average Cost, 5s. 6d. Rhubarb comes in season when apples are going out. The common rhubarb is a native of Asia: the scarlet variety has the finest flavour. Turkey rhubarb, the well-known medicinal drug, is the root of a very elegant plant (Rheum palmatum), coming to greatest perfection in Tartary. For culinary purposes, all kinds of rhubarb are the better for being blanched. 1852.—RAISED PIE OF POULTRY OR GAME. (Fr.—Pate froid de Gibier—de Volaille.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow £ lb. of butter, £ pint of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, £ teaspoonful of salt (these are for the crust), 1 large fowl or pheasant, a few slices of veal cutlet, a few slices of dressed ham, forcemeat, seasoning of nutmeg, allspice, pepper and salt, gravy. Mode.— Make a stiff short-crust with the above proportion of butter, flour, water, and eggs, and work it up very smoothly; butter a raised-pie mould, as shown in No. 1670, and line it with the paste. Previously to making the crust, bone the fowl, or whatever bird is intended to be used, lay it, breast downwards, upon a cloth, and season the inside well with pounded mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; then spread over it a layer of forcemeat, then a layer of seasoned veal, and then one of ham, and then another layer of forcemeat, and roll the fowl over, making the skin meet at the back. Line the pie with forcemeat, put in the fowl, and fill up the cavities with slices of seasoned veal and ham and forcemeat; wet the edges of the pie, put on the cover, pinch the edges together with the paste-pincers, p.nd decorate it with leaves; brush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. In the meantime, make a good strong gravy from the bones, pour it through a funnel into the hole at the top ; cover this hole with a small leaf, and the pie, when cold, will be ready for use. Let it be remembered that the gravy must be considerably reduced before it is poured into the pie, as, when cold, it should form a firm jelly, and not be the least degree in a liquid state. The recipe is suitable for all kinds of poultry or game, using one or more birds, according to the size of the pie intended to be made ; but the birds must always be boned. Truffles, mushrooms, &c., added to this pie, make it much nicer; and, to enrich it, lard the fleshy parts of the poultry or game with thin strips of bacon. This method of forming raised pies in a mould is gene- rally called a timbale, and has the advantage of being more easily made than one where the paste is raised by the hands ; the crust, besides, being eatable. Seasonable, with poultry, all the year; with game, from September to March. RAISED PIE.