Preserve of Damsons. 995 2148.—DAMSON JAM. Ingredients.—Damsons ; to every lb. of fruit allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Have the fruit gathered in dry weather; pick it over, and reject any that is at all blemished. Stone the damsons, weigh them, and to every lb. allcftv £ lb. of loaf sugar. Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving-pan; keep stirring them gently until the sugar is dissolved, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Boil the jam for about an hour, reckoning from the time it commences to simmer all over alike ; it must be well stirred all the time, or it will be liable to burn and stick to the pan, which will cause the jam to have a very disagreeable flavour. When the jam looks firm, and the juice appears to set, it is done. Then take it off the fire, put into pots, cover it down, when quite cold, with oiled and egged papers, the same as in recipe No. 2146, and store it away in a dry place. Time.—I hour after the jam simmers all over. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—i| pint of damsons for a lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in September or October. 2149. —A VERY NICE PRESERVE OF DAMSONS. Ingredients.—To every quart of damsons allow £ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Put the damsons (which should be picked from the stalks and quite free from blemishes) into a jar, with pounded sugar sprinkled amongst them in the above proportion ; tie the jar closely down, set it in a sauce- pan of cold water; bring it gradually to boil, and simmer gently until the damsons are soft, without being broken. Let them stand till cold ; then strain the juice from them, boil it up well, strain it through a jelly-bag, and pour it over the fruit. Let it cool, cover with oiled papers, and the jars with tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, and store away in a dry, cool place. Time.—About f hour to simmer the fruit after the water boils; | hour to boil the juice. Seasonable.—Make this in September or October. 2150. -TO PRESERVE DAMSONS, OR ANY KIND OF PLUMS. (Useful in Winter.) Ingredients.—Damsons or plums ; boiling water. Mode.—Pick the fruit into clean dry stone jars, taking care to leave out all that are broken or blemished. When full, pour boiling water on