2l8 Recipes for Cooking FRh. Time.—^ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—The remains of cold fish will do for this. The Season for Catching Cod.—The best season for catching cod is from the beginning of February to the end of April, and although each fisherman engaged in taking them catches no more than one at a time, an expert hand will sometimes take four hundred in a day. The em- ployment is excessively fatiguing, from the weight of the fish as well as from the coldness of the climate. 447—COD WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. (Ft.—Cabillaud a I’ltalienne.) Ingredients.—2 slices of crimped cod, 1 shalot, 1 slice of ham, minced very fine, £ pint of white stock, No. 278 : when liked, ^ teacupful of cream; salt to taste ; a few drops of garlic vinegar, a little lemon-juice, £ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Chop the shalot, mince the ham very fine, pour on the stock, and simmer for 15 minutes. If the colour should not be good, add cream in the above proportion, and strain it through a fine sieve ; season it, and put in the vinegar, lemon-juice and sugar. Now boil the cod, take out the middle bone, and skin it; put it on the dish without breaking, and pour the sauce over it. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d., with fresh fish. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. The Fecundity of the Cod.—In our preceding remarks on the natural history of fishes, we have spoken of the amazing fruitfulness of this fish 1 but in this we see one more instance of the wise provision which Nature has made for supplying the wants of man. So extensive has been the consumption of this fish, that it is surprising that it has not long ago become extinct; which would certainly have been the case, had it not been for its wonderful powers of reproduction. “ So early as 1368,” says Dr. Cloquet, " the inhabitants of Amsterdam had dispatched fishermen to the coast of Sweden ; and in the first quarter of 1792, from the port of France only, 210 vessels went out to the cod-fisheries. Every year, however, upwards of 10,000 vessels, of all nations, are employed in this trade, and bring into the commercial world more than 40,000,000 of salted and dried cod. If we add to this immense number, the havoc made among the legions of cod by the larger scaly tribes of the great deep, and take into account the destruction to which the young are exposed by sea-fowl and other inhabitants of the seas, besides the myriads of their eggs destroyed by accident, it becomes a miracle to find that such mighty multitudes of them are still in exist- ence, and ready to continue the exhaustless supply. Yet it ceases to excite our wonder when wo remember that the female can every year give birth to more than g,oco,ooo at a time.” 448.—COD SOUNDS. (Fr.—Nau de Morue.) Mode.—These salted, as they are generally bought, should be soaked in milk and water for several hours, and then boiled in fresh milk and w'ater until tender, when they should be drained and served with egg sauce; but more elaborately dressed they form entrees or nice little dishes for hot suppers. Average Cost, 6d. Seasonable from November to March.