Plain Bum. IIOI apart on buttered tin plates, in rows, to rise for half an hour. Press a cross mould on them (this may be done roughly with the back of a knife)- and bake in a quick oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Time.—15 to 20 minutes to bake. Average Cost, rd. each. Sufficient to make 2 dozen buns. Seasonable on Good Friday. 2426.—BATH BUNS. Ingredients.—1£ lb. of flour, £ lb. of sugar, X oz. of German yeast, i lb. of butter, the yolks of 4 and the whites of 3 eggs, water, caraway comfits, candied peel. Mode.—Dissolve the yeast in 4 tablespoonfuls of water, mix with it the eggs and a quarter of a pound of flour; beat the mixture up in a bowl, and set it before the fire to rise. Rub the butter well into the one pound of flour, add the sugar, and put in a few of the comfits and the peel cut ipto slices. When the sponge has risen sufficiently mix all together, throw over it a cloth, and set again to rise. Grease a tin, form the buns, place them on this, brush over yolk of egg and milk, and strew on them a few comfits. Bake in a quick oven. Time.—About 20 minutes to bake the buns. Average Cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for 16 buns. Seasonable at any time. 2427.-L.IGHT BUNS. Ingredients.—1£ teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 lb. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, J lb. of currants or raisins—when liked, a few caraway seeds, $ pint of cold new milk, 1 egg, which can be omitted. Mode.—Rub the baking powder and flour together through a hair-sieve ; work the butter into the flour; add the sugar, currants, and caraway seeds, when the flavour of the latter is liked. Mix all these ingredients well together; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour in the milk, mixed with the egg, which should buns. be well beaten ; mix quickly, and set the dough, with a fork, on baking tins, and bake the buns for about 20 minutes. This mixture makes a very good cake, and if put into a tin, should be baked i£ hour. The same quantity of flour and baking powder, with half a pint of milk and a little salt, will make either bread or teacakes, if wanted quickly. Time.—20 minutes for the buns ; if made into a cake, hour Sufficient to make about 12 buns.