Asparagus Sauce. 305 for use. A small quantity of wine, or some melted jam, would very much improve the flavour of this sauce. It is usually served with bread, rice custard, or any dry pudding that is not very rich. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 661. —ASPARAGUS SAUCE. (Fv.—Puree d’Asperges.) Ingredients.—1 bunch of green asparagus, salt, 1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 small bunch of parsley, 3 or 4 green onions, 1 large lump of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of sauce tournee. Mode.—Break the asparagus in the tender part, wash well, and put them into boiling salt and water to render them green. When they are tender, take them out, and put them into cold water; drain them on a cloth till all moisture is absorbed from them. Put the butter in a stewpan, with the parsley and onions; lay in the asparagus, and fry the whole over a sharp fire for 5 minutes. Add salt, the sugar and sauce tournee, and simmer for another 5 minutes. Rub all through a tammy, and if not a very good colour, use a little spinach green. This sauce should be rather sweet. This is suitable for garnish. Time.—Altogether 40 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, is. 4d. 662. —ASPIC, OR ORNAMENTAL SAVOURY JELLY. (Fr— Aspic, pour garnitures.) Ingredients.—4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, i cow-heel, 3 or 4 slices of ham, any poultry trimmings, 2 carrots, 1 onion, x faggot of savoury herbs, 1 glass of sherry, 3 quarts of water, seasoning to taste of salt and whole white pepper, 3 eggs. Mode.—Lay the ham on the bottom of a stewpan, cut up the veal and cow-heel into small pieces, and lay them on the ham ; add the poultry trimmings, vegetables, herbs, sherry and water, and let the whole sim- mer very gently for 4 hours, carefully taking away all scum that may rise to the surface ; strain through a fine sieve, and pour into an earthen pan to get cold. Have ready a clean stewpan, put in the jelly, and be particular to leave the sediment behind, or it will not be clear. Add the whites of 3 eggs, with salt and pepper, to clarify ; keep stirring over the fire till the whole becomes very white; then draw it to the side, and let it stand till clear. When this is the case, strain it through a cloth or jelly- bag, and use it for moulding poultry, &c. Tarragon vinegar may be added to give an additional flavour. Time.—Altogether 4! hours. Average Cost, for this quantity, 4s.