988 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. when cold. When the fruit looks perfectly clear, it is sufficiently dona* and should be stored away in pots, with the syrup poured over, or the fruit may be candied. Time.—| hour to simmer, each day. Seasonable in autumn. Note.—The berries in their natural state make a very pretty garnishing for dishes, and may even be used for the same purpose, preserved as above, and look exceedingly nice on sweet dishes. 2131.—CARROT JAM, TO IMITATE APRICOT PRESERVE. Ingredients.— Carrots ; to every lb. of carrot pulp allow x lb. of pounded sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the strained juice of 2, 6 chopped bitter almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Select young carrots ; wash and scrape them clean, cut them into round pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and let them simmer until perfectly soft; then beat them through a sieve. Weigh the pulp, and to every lb. allow the above ingredients. Put the pulp into a preserving-pan with the sugar, and let this boil for 5 minutes, stirring and skimming all the time. When cold, add the lemon- rind and juice, almonds and brandy; mix these well with the jam; then put it into pots, which must be well covered and kept in a dry place. The brandy may be omitted, but the preserve will then not keep: with the brandy it will remain good for months. Time.—About f hour to boil the carrots ; 5 minutes to simmer the pulp. Average Cost, is. 2d. for 1 lb. of pulp, with the other ingredients in proportion. Sufficient to fill 3 pots. Seasonable from July to December. 2132.-COMPOTE OF CHERRIES. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of cherries, -J- lb. of sugar, the juice of 2 lemons. Mode.—-The cherries should be red, as they have a more piquant flavour. Cut the stalks with scissors, leaving an inch to each cherry, then put the fruit into a stewpan with the sugar and lemon-juice. Put them over a slow fire and shake the pan occasionally. Boil three minutes, then take them from the pan with a spoon, put them in a basin and carefully drain away all syrup. Return that to the pan and reduce it by boiling, then pour it on a plate to set. When the compote is required, pile the cherries in a pyramid on a glass dish and pour the jelly over them. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, is. $d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August.