Moulds for Puddings—Hot Water Dish. 8i 164. JPatty-pans.—These, as shown in page 77, are made of tin, and used for cheese-cakes, little tarts, mince-pies, &c. Some are fluted and some plain, and they are manufactured in all sizes and of different shapes, both oval and round. The price of a dozen patty-pans, in tin, range from is. 6d. upwards, according to size and shape: in copper, from 5s. 6d. to 16s. per dozen. 165. Moulds for Puddings, Blancmanges, Cakes, &c.—The open mould, shown in the illustration given in page 77, is now very much used for jellies and blancmanges ; it is open in the centre ; and when the jelly is dished a whipped cream is piled high in the middle. The mixture of the cream and jelly is very pretty, and makes a very nice and effective supper dish. The other mould is of the ordinary round shape. The price of the open mould or pie mould, as it is sometimes called, in tin, ranges from 3s. 6d. upwards; the closed round mould, as shown in the illustration given in page 77, may be had in every variety of form and shape, for all the various purposes for which moulds are used, in tin, from is. upwards. 166. The Bee-hive Mould.—A mould for jellies, puddings, cakes, etc., in the form of a conical straw bee-hive or bee-butt, as the name implies, is now much used and has become a general favourite, because it is found that anything that is made in it whether jelly, pudding or cake, invariably “ turns out ” well. It is without seams or joints, and on this account is desirable for cakes, because it possesses no joint that could become unsoldered in the oven. It is made in polished tin steel, and polished copper tinned inside, either open or covered with- out pipe or open with pipe. There are 8 sizes ranging from 3 in. to 8 in. in diameter, and prices range in tinned steel from gs. to 48s. per dozen, according to make; and in copper, from 2s. to 125. each. The 8 inch size is not made in copper. Its form is shown in page 77. 167. Coffee and Tea Canisters, etc.—Japanned tin is the metal of which canisters for tea and coffee are composed. The flavour of the tea and the aroma of the coffee are much preserved by keeping them in tin canisters, like those illustrated in page 80. The prices of these canisters, to hold from 2 oz. to 6 lbs., range from 6d. to 3s. 3d., according to size. Among other boxes, made in tin and japanned, for the reception of articles of daily use and con- sumption may be named Seasoning Boxes at 3s., 3s. 6d. and 45. 6a., according to size ; Spice Boxes at 4s., 4s. 6d. and 55., according to size ; Sugar Boxes, square in shape, with division, in five sizes from 2J. 9d. to 9s. 6d.; without drawer to receive pounded sugar dropping from divisions through perforated bottom, or in three sizes, drawers, from 65. 6d. to 10s. Round Sugar Canisters, holding from ilb. to 6lb., are sold at from 15. 3d. to 45. 6d., according to size ; and Flour Bins, bright tin inside and japanned blue with black hoops outside, ranging in capacity from 1 gallon to 3 bushels, are supplied at from 45. 6d. to 28s., according to size. 168. Mot-water Dish.—In cold weather such joints as venison, a haunch, saddle or leg of mutton should always be served on a hot-water dish, as they are so liable to chill. This dish is arranged with a double bottom, which is filled with very hot water just before the joint is sent to table, and so keeping that and the gravy deliciously hot. Although an article of this description can scarcely be ranked as a kitchen utensil, still the utility of it is so obvious that it is not out of place to insert, in page 77, an illustration of a dish which it is so desirable to possess, and which no properly furnished house should be without. Hot-water dishes may be had, made entirely of metal, of various sizes from 21s. upwards, or in nickel, electro-plated, at higher prices. Hot-water plates range in price from 2s. upwards. The “Chiswiek” hot-water dish, a specialty of Messrs. Loveridge and Co., a handsome dish in metal with a well floor of the