Potato Rice. 773 milk, add to them the butter, melted and beaten to a cream. Boil the rest of the milk and pour it boiling into the potatoes, then stir the whole, holding the pan over the fire, into a smooth, fine paste. Stand it on the hob, and mix into it two well-beaten eggs. Let the mixture become cool, then beat up with it the yolks of the remaining eggs ; whisk the whites to a froth and carefully stir into the batter. Butter little patty-pans and sprinkle them thickly with bread-crumbs, then pour in the batter and bake of a deep-gold yellow in a hot oven. Serve hot with any nice dish of fish or fowl &c., or as a second-course vegetable. Time.—Altogether, $ hour. Average Cost, iod. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1616.—POTATO BALLS. (Fr — Croquettes de Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—Mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste ; when liked, a very little minced parsley, egg, and bread-crumbs. Mode.—Boil and mash the potatoes by recipe No. 1613 ; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and, when liked, a little minced parsley. Roll the potatoes into small balls, cover them with egg and bread- crumbs, and fry in hot oil or dripping until light brown; let them drain before the fire, dish them on a napkin, and serve. Time.—10 minutes to fry the rissoles. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The flavour of these rissoles may be very much increased by adding finely minced tongue or ham, or even chopped onions, when these are liked. Qualities of Potatoes.—In making a choice from the many varieties of potatoes which are everywhere found, the best way is to get a sample and taste them, and then fix upon the kind which best pleases your palate. The Shaw is one of the most esteemed of the early potatoes for field-culture; and the Kidney and Bread-fruit are also good sorts. The Lancashire Pink is also a good potato, and is much cultivated in the neighbourhood of Liverpool. As late or long-keeping potatoes, the Tartan or Red-apple stands very high in favour. 1617.—POTATO RICE. (Fr.—Pommes de Terre au Riz.) Ingredients.—10 potatoes, salt and butter. Mode.—Choose white potatoes, boil them until tender, and mash them by recipe No. 1613 ; press them through a large colander on to a hot dish before the fire ; shake the colander lightly every other minute to cause the potatoes to fall off in short grains like rice ; serve very hot. This will be found a nice accompaniment to a sausage supper.