Boiling. 367 that has been boiled slowly is produced by the loss of some important alimentary properties. 822. The Objections we have raised to the practice of putting meat on the fire in cold water, apply with equal force to the practice of soaking meat before cooking it, which is so strongly recommended by some cooks. Fresh meat ought never to be soaked or washed unless absolutely necessary, as all its most nutritive constituents are soluble in water. Soaking, however, is an operation that cannot be entirely dispensed with in the preparation of animal food. Salted and dried meats require to be soaked for some time in water before they are cooked. The fire must be watched with great attention during the operation of boiling, so that its heat may be properly regulated. As a rule, the pot should be kept in a simmering state; a result which cannot be attained without vigilance. 823. The Temperature at tvhich Water Boils, at the sea level, is 2120 Fahr. Water does not become hotter after it has begun to boil, however long or with whatever violence the boiling is continued. This fact is of great importance in cookery, and attention to it will save much fuel. Water made to boil in a gentle way by the application of a moderate heat is just as hot as when it is made to boil on a strong fire with the greatest possible violence. When once water has been brought to the boiling point, the fire may be considerably reduced, as a very gentle heat will suffice to keep the water at its highest tem- perature. 824. The Scum which rises to the surface of the pot during the opera- tion of boiling must be carefully removed, otherwise it will attach itself to the meat, and thereby spoil its appearance. The cook must not neglect to skim during the whole process, though by far the greater part of the skum rises at first. The practice of wrapping meat in a cloth may be dispensed with if the skimming be skilfully managed. When taken from the pot, the meat should not be allowed to stand a moment longer than necessary, as boiled meat, as well as roasted, cannot be eaten too hot. 825. The Time allowed for the operation of Boiling must be regulated according to the size and quality of the meat. As a general rule, twenty minutes, reckoning from the moment when the boiling commences, may be.allowed for every pound of meat. All the best authorities, however, agree in this, that the longer and slower the boiling the more perfect the operation. Weight is not the only guide, as a thick piece with skin over it always takes longer than a thin flat piece of the same weight. Boiled meat that is to be eaten cold should be underdone and left to cool in its liquor, which will finish it. 826. A few Observations on the Nutritive Value of Salted Meat may be properly introduced in this place. Every housewife knows that dry salt in contact with fresh meat gradually becomes fluid brine. The appli- cation of salt causes the fibres of meat to contract, and the juice to flow out from its pores : as much as one third of the juice of the meat is often forced out in this manner. Now, as this juice is pure extract of meat, containing albumen, osmazome, and other valuable principles, it follows that meat which has been preserved by the action of salt can never have the nutritive properties of fresh meat. 827. The Vessels used for Boiling should be made of cast iron, well tinned within, and provided with closely-fitting lids. They must be kept scrupu- lously clean, otherwise they will render the meat cooked in them unsightly and unwholesome. Copper pans, if used at all, should be tinned inside, as, by contact