Stewed Celery. 747 until tender. Put the cream and pounded mace into a stewpan ; shake it over the fire until the cream thickens, dish the celery, pour over the sauce, and serve. Time.—Large heads of celery, 25 minutes ; small ones, 15 to 20 m.nutes. Average Cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to April. Alexanders.—This plant is the Smyrnium olustratum of science, and is used in this country in the same way in which celery is. It is a native of Gieat Britain, and is found in its wild state near the seacoast. It received its name from the Italian “ herba Alexandria,” and is supposed to have been originally brought from Alexandria ; but, be this as it may, its cultivation is now almost entirely abandoned. 1564.—STEWED CELERY WITH WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—Cel6ri a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, 1 oz. of butter; to each £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, | pint of white sauce, No. 665, or 666. Mode.—Have ready sufficient boiling water just to cover the celery, with salt and butter in the above proportion. Wash the celery well; cut off the decayed outside leaves, trim away the green tops, and shape the root into a point; put it into the boiling water; let it boil rapidly until tender; then take it out, drain well, place it upon a dish, and pour over about half a pint of white sauce, made by either of the recipes No. 665 or 666. It may also be plainly boiled as above, placed on toast, and melted butter poured over, the same as asparagus is dished. Time.—Large heads of celery, 25 minutes, small ones, 15 to 20 minutes, after the water boils. Average Cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to April. Origin of Celery.—In the marshes and ditches of this country there is to be found a very common plant, known by the name of smallage. This is the wild form of celery; but, by being subjected to cultivation, it loses its acrid nature, and becomes mild and sweet. In its natural state it has a celery. peculiar rank, coarse taste and smell, and its root was reckoned by the ancients as one of the “ Uve greater aperient roots.” There is a variety of this in which the root becomes turnip-shaped and large. It is called Celeries, and is extensively used by the Germans, and preferred by them to the sort of celery we generally use. In a raw state, this plant does not suit weak stomachs ; cooked, it is less difficult of digestion, and is a very wholesome vegetable. 1565-—STEWED CELERY. (Fn-Cel^ri a la Creme.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, -J- pint of white stock or weak broth, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, thickening of butter and flour, 1 blade of pounded mace, a very little grated nutmeg; pepper and salt to taste.