1553 Changing Sheets. done to while away the long hours of weakness should be tried, whether it be reading aloud, or by the nurse engaging herself with some occupation that it would be pleasant for the invalid to watch. Di some of the rooms of that beautiful hospital at Putney, called Melrose Hall looking glasses are so fixed that patients in upper rooms have a view of the lovely garde;-! brought in to them, and can, without moving and without any glare, lie and watch the waving trees and flowers below. In cases of long illness this might give great pleasure to the sufferers incapable of being moved. 3492.—Changing Sheets.—There are several ways of changing sheets but perhaps there is no more simple and easy one than that we here illustrate’ that ol rolling up the dirty sheet in a narrow roll till it reaches the side of the paj1tnt,’rtreatlng the clean sheet in the same way. that is rolling it from end to end half way across. The clean and dirty roll are now laid side by side and a very l|ttle shifting will take the patient over them, when the dirty sheet can be withdrawn and the clean one unrolled and spread in its place. Under sheets for a sick bed should be small ones, only just large enough to tuck in at the sides, and should never be wound round the bolster. A very hard pillow should be used as a foundation when it is necessary to make a pile for the patient to sit up in bed, as in cases of bronchitis. For a helpless patient a draw-sheet is often needed, which may be made with a large sheet folded lengthways to about a yard wide. This should be laid across the imddle of the bed over a mackintosh, with one end reaching only to the side of the bed, and the surplus at the other formed into a roll that can be unwound as the sheet is drawn from the other side. Be most careful to have this draw- sheet so firmly fixed with safety-pins or by being tucked under the mattress that it will not ruck or crease, and so avoid great discomfort, if not pain, to the patient, fresh smooth sheets and cool pillows afford great comfort to most invalids, and a good nurse will be on the watch for opportunities of replacing a pillow and changing or smoothing a sheet when these offices can be performed without inconveniencing or disturbing her patient. CHANGING SHEETS.