814 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. line it with some of the paste ; pare, core and cut the apples into slices, and fill the basin with these ; add the sugar, the lemon-peel and juice and cover with crust; pinch the edges together, flo«r the cloth, place it over the pudding, tie it securely and put it into plenty of fast-boiling water. Let it boil from i * to hours, according to the size ; then turn it out of the basin and send to table quickly. Apple puddings may also be boiled in a cloth without a basin ; but, when made in this way, must be served without the least delay, as the crust so soon becomes heavy. Apple pudding is a convenient dish to have when the dinner-hour is rather un- certain, as it does not spoil by being boiled an extra hour ; care, however, must be taken to keep it well covered with the water all the time and not allow it to stop boiling. Time.—From to hours, according to the size of the pudding and the quality of the apples. Average Cost, iod. Sufficient, made with i lb. of flour, for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from August to March ; but the apples become flavourless and scarce after February. 1709.-APPLE TART OR PIE. (Fr. —Tourte aux Pommes.j Ingredients.—Puff-paste No. 1674 or 1675, apples; to every lb. of un- pared apples allow 2 oz. of moist sugar, ^ teaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Make half a pound of puff-paste by either of the above-named recipes; place a border of it round the edge of a pie-dish and fill it with apples, pared, cored and cut into slices; sweeten with moist sugar, add the lemon-peel and juice, and 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of water; cover with crust; cut it evenly round close to the edge of the pie-dish, and bake in a hot oven from half to three-quarters of an hour, or rather longer, should the pie be very large. When it is three-parts done, take it out of the oven put the white of an egg on a plate, and, with the blade of a knife, whisk it to a froth ; brush the pie over with this, then sprinkle upon it some sifted sugar and then a few drops of water. Put the pie back into the oven, and finish baking, and be particularly careful that it does not catch or burn, which it is very liable to do after the crust is iced. If made with a plain crust, the icing may be omitted. Time.—\ hour before the crust is iced; 10 to 15 minutes afterwards. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient.—Allow 2 lbs. of apples for a tart for 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March ; but the apples become flavourless after February.