Fillet of Mutton. 489 Mode.—Make a forcemeat by recipe No. 629, to which add 2 finely- minced shalots. Bone the leg of mutton, without spoiling the skin, and cut off a great deal of the fat. Fill, with the forcemeat, the hole whence the bone was taken, and sew it up underneath, to prevent the forcemeat falling out. Bind and tie it up compactly, and roi.st it before a nice clear fire for about 2? hours, or rather longer ; remove the tape and send it to the table with a good gravy. It may be glazed or not, as preferred. Time —2\ hours, or rather longer. Average Cost, 6s. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1073-BRAIN AND TONGUE PUDDING. Ingredients.—J lb. of suet crust, 4 sheep’s tongues, 4 sheep’s brains, 1 onion, salt, pepper, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 hard-boiled egg, parsley, ^ pint of milk. Mode.—Skin and wash the tongues and brains, line a pudding-basin with some of the paste, then fill it up with alternate layers of thin slices of tongue, and brain chopped finely, adding salt, pepper, chopped onion and parsley with each layer. On the top layer put slices of hard-boiled eggs. Mix a teaspoonful of flour smoothly with the milk, then pour it into the basin, put on the top crust, and boil for three hours. A sliced young cucumber added is sometimes liked in this pudding. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year. 1074.—BRAISED FILLET OF MUTTON, WITH FRENCH BEANS. (Fr.—Carre de Mouton aux Haricots Verts.) Ingredients.—The chump end of a loin of mutton, herbs and vege- tables to flavour, French beans, a little glaze, 1 pint of gravy. Mode.—Roll up the mutton, braise it in the braising-pan with the vegetables for 2 hours. Have ready some French beans, boiled, and drained on a sieve; remove the mutton, glaze it; just heat up the beans in the gravy, and lay them on the dish, with the meat over them. The remainder of the gravy may be strained, and sent to table in a tureen. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Failing a proper braising-pan, with fire above and below, the best plan is to put the meat into a saucepan with gravy enough to well cover the