Recipes for Italian Cookery. 1304 2967.—BAKED TURKEY ALLA MILANESE. Ingredients.—Turkey, I lb. of fine sausage, 8 French prunes, 4 pears, £ pint of boiled and peeled chestnuts, 1 glass of Marsala or light white wine, butter, salt, a few slices of bacon, and a little rosemary. Mode.—Blanch and cut the sausages into thin long pieces, blanch and stone the prunes, peel and quarter the pears; fry these with the chest- nuts in a little butter for a minute or two. Chop the liver of the turkey fine, and add to the above. Mix with the wine and make a force- meat. Salt the inside of the turkey lightly, stuff with this forcemeat, put in a baking pan with the bacon some butter, rosemary, and a little salt. Place in a slow oven, basting occasionally, till of a good colour. Serve with its own gravy. Time.—About 2 hours. Average Cost, 7s. to 10s. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, except March to May. 2968.—TRUFFLED CAPON OR FOWL ALLA LUCULLUS. Ingredients.—1 capon or large fowl, 2 lbs. of truffles, £ lb. of fowls’ livers, ^ lb. of bacon, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, £ pint of Marsala or white wine. Mode.—Bruise the livers and the bacon, chopped fine, with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and the wine, in a mortar, pass through a sieve, then add the truffles (cooked for 10 minutes and peeled). Mix thoroughly and stuff with it the fowl, the breast of which has previously been boned. Skewer the fowl, and lard the breast. To make it more tender and savoury, it should be kept thus prepared for three or four days, wrapped up in a cloth like a pheasant. Roast on the spit, garnish with little balls of rice, each surmounted by a piece of cockscomb, and serve with essence of truffles mixed with the gravy of the capon. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 4s. 6d. a large fowl or capon. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable all the year ; scarce in spring. 2969.—LARKS IN ONIONS. Ingredients.—12 larks, 3 or 4 slices of bacon, about 1 pint of stock, 1 or 2 fowls’ livers, a bunch of herbs, 6 Spanish onions of equal size, ^ lb. of forcemeat, salt and pepper.