To Boil Spinach. 779 Mode.—Cut the potatoes into slices about half an inch in thickness ; put these into a salad-bowl with oil and vinegar in the above proportion ; season with pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of minced parsley ; stir the salad well, that all the ingredients may be thoroughly incorporated, and it is ready to serve. This should be made 2 or 3 hours before it is wanted for table. Anchovies, olives, or pickles may be added to this salad, as also slices of cold beef, fowl, or turkey. Seasonable at any time. Chicken Salad.—See No. 1285. Grouse Salad.—See No. 1394. Lobster Salad.—See No. 490. 1629.-SORREL GARNISH. (Fr.—Pur6e d’Oseille.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of sorrel, 1 oz. of flour, i£ oz. of butter, £ pint of stock, No. 273, 3 eggs, £ gill of milk. Mode.—See that the sorrel is very fresh and green. Pick it over care- fully, removing all stalks; then wash it thoroughly, changing the water frequently. When perfectly clean put it into a stewpan with a quart of water and a teaspoonful of salt. Let it boil fifteen minutes, then take it out, and drain it well and chop it very finely. Roll the butter in the flour and melt it smoothly over the fire in a clean saucepan ; then add the sorrel and half the stock. Stir it for eight minutes. Then add the rest of the broth, and continue stirring it for twenty minutes. Beat up the eggs with the milk in a basin, then pour them quickly on to the sorrel and stir the whole for five minutes, after which it will be ready to use. It can also be cooked like spinach and used for garnish. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 2 or 3 dishes. Seasonable.—Best from May to October. 1630.—TO BOIL SPINACH. (Fr.—Epinards.) (English Mode.) Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 oz. of butter, pepper to taste. Mode.—Pick the spinach carefully, and see that no stalks or weeds are left amongst it; wash it in several waters, and, to prevent it being gritty, act in the following manner : —Have ready two large pans or tubs filled with water; put the spinach into one of these, and spinach garnished with wash it : then with the hands, take out the spinach and put it into the other tub of water (by this means all the grit will be left at the bottom of the tub); wash it again, and should it not be