io86 General Observations on Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. In the patent process, the dough is mixed in a great iron ball, inside which is a system of paddles, perpetually turning, and doing the kneading part of the business. Into this globe the flour is dropped till it is full, and then the common atmospheric air is pumped out, and the pure gas turned on. The gas is followed by the water, which has been aerated for the purpose, and then begins the churn- ing or kneading part of the business. Of course it is not long before we have the dough, and very “ light” and nice it looks. This is caught in tins, and passed on to the floor of the oven, which is an endless floor, moving slowly through the fire. Done to a turn, the loaves emerge at the other end of the apartment, and the Aerated Bread is made. It may be added that it is a good plan to change one’s baker from time to time, and so secure a change in the quality of the bread that is eaten. 2396. Mixed Breads.—Rye bread is hard of digestion, and requires longer and slower baking than wheaten bread. It is better when made with leaven of wheaten flour rather than yeast, and turns out lighter. It should not be eaten till two days old. It will keep a long time. A good bread may be made by mixing rye-flour, wheat-flour, and rice-paste in equal proportions; also by mixing rye, wheat and barley. In Norway, it is said that they only bake their barley-bread once a year, such is its “ keeping” quality. Indian- corn flour mixed with wheat-flour (half with half) makes a nice bread ; but it is not considered very digestible, though it keeps well. Rice cannot be made into bread, nor can potatoes; but one-third potato-flour in three-fourths wheaten-flour makes a tolerably good loaf. A very good bread, better than the ordinary sort, and of a delicious flavour, is said to be produced by adopting the following recipe:—Take ten parts of wheat- flour, five parts of potato-flour, one part of rice-paste ; knead together, add the yeast, and bake as usual. This is, of course, cheaper than wheatsn bread. 2397. Flour should be perfectly dry before being used for bread or cakes ; if at all damp, the pre. iration is sure to be heavy. Before mixing it with the other ingredients, it is a go d plan to place it for an hour or two before the fire, until it feels warm and ory. Yeast from home-brewed beer is generally preferred to any other ; it is very bitter, and, on that account, should be well washed, and put away until the thick mass settles. If it still continues bitter, the process should be repeated ; and before being used, all the water floating at the top must be poured off. German yeast is now very much used, and should be moistened, and thoroughly mixed with the milk or water with which the bread is to be made. 2393. General Directions.—The following observations are extracted from a valuable work on Bread-making,* and will be found very useful to our readersThe first thing required for making wholesome bread is the utmost cleanliness; the next is the soundness and sweetness of all the ingredients used for it; and, in addition to these, there must be attention and care through the whole process. A certain way of spoiling dough is to leave it half-made, and to allow it to become cold before it is finished. The other most common causes of failure are, using yeast which is no longer sweet, or which has been frozen, or has had hot liquid poured over it, or for any other cause is dead. Too small a pro- portion of yeast, or insufficient time allowed for the dough to rise, will cause the bread to be heavy. Heavy bread will also most likely be the result of making the JEWISH BREAD. * 11 The English Bread Book.” By Eliza Acton. London: Longmans.