1524 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. fully over the whole surface with the hand or a piece of clean linen; shake it off and wipe with soft cloths. Satin may be brushed the way of the nap with a clean, soft hair-brush. 3400. —BLACK REVIVER FOR CLOTH. Ingredients.—2 oz. of blue galls, bruised ; logwood, sulphate of iron, jutnach, £ oz. of each, 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.— Macerate in a close vessel, with heat, for twenty-four hours; strain off the clear liquid, add the galls, and shake twice a day for a week. Keep in a corked bottle, and apply with a brush or sponge. This is im- proved by the addition of a little sugar and gum. 3401. -TO RESTORE WHITENESS TO SCORCHED LINEN. Ingredients.—| pint of vinegar, 2 oz. of fullers’ earth, 1 oz. of dried fowl’s dung, ^ oz. of soap, the juice of 2 large onions. Mode.—Boil all these ingredients together to the consistency ot paste; spread the composition thickly over the damaged part, and if the threads be not actually consumed, after it has been allowed to dry on, and the place has subsequently been washed once or twice, every trace of scorch- ing will disappear. 3402—TO REMOVE IRON MOULD FROM LINEN. Oxalic acid and hot water will remove iron-mould, so also will the common sorrel bruised in a mortar and rubbed on the spots. In both cases, the linen should be well washed after the remedy has been applied. 3403.—TO REMOVE IRON-MOULD FROM LINEN. (Another Recipe.) Rub the spot with a little powdered oxalic acid, or salts of lemon and warm water. Let it remain a few minutes, and well rinse in clear water, or wash the spots with a strong solution of cream of tartar and water. Repeat, if necessary, and dry in the sun. 3404—VARNISH FOR BOOTS. Ingredients.—6 parts of eggs (the whole of a yolk), well beaten'; 1 part of treacle, 1 part of isinglass, 5 parts of water, lamp-black. Mode.—Dissolve the isinglass in the water, and then add to it the other ingredients, using sufficient lamp-black to give the required colour. If there is need to restore the colour, take a small quantity of good black ink, mix it with the white of an egg, and apply it to the boots with a soft sponge.