2 O H03 Almond Icing. 2431.—TO MAKE RUSKS. {Suffolk Recipe.) Ingredients.—To every pound of flour allow 2 oz. of butter, £ pint of milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of yeast. Mode.—Put the milk and butter into a saucepan, and keep shaking it round until the latter is melted. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, mix these well together, and beat the eggs. Stir them with the yeast to the milk and butter, and with this liquid work the flour into a smooth dough. Cover a cloth over the basin, and leave the rusks. dough to rise by the side of the fire; then knead it and divide it into 12 pieces; place them in a brisk oven, and bake for about 20 minutes. Take the rusks out, break them in halves, and then set them in the oven to get crisp on the other side. When cold, they should be put into tin canisters to keep them dry; and, if intended for the cheese course, the sifted sugar should be omitted. Time.—20 minutes to bake the rusks ; 5 minutes to render them crisp after being divided. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient to make 2 dozen rusks. Seasonable at any time. 2432.—ALMOND ICING FOR CAKES. Ingredients.—To every pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar, allow x lb. of sweet almonds, the whites of 4 eggs, a little rose-water. Mode.—Blanch the almonds, and pound them (a few at a time) in a mortar to a paste, adding a little rose-water to facilitate the operation. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a strong froth ; mix them with the pounded almonds, stir in the sugar, and beat all together. When the I cake is sufficiently baked, lay on the almond icing, and put it into the oven to dry. Before laying this preparation on the cake, great care must be taken that it is nice and smooth, which is easily accomplished by well beating the mixture. Average Cost, is. 4d. per lb. 2433—TO ICE A WEDDING-CAKE. Ingredients.—1£ lb. of confectioner’s icing sugar, whites of 8 eggs, juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—If confectioner’s sugar cannot be obtained, take the same weight of finest loaf sugar, pound and sift it finely. Add to it, very gradually, the whites of eggs, well beaten, and work it to a very stiff froth, then mix in the lemon-juice; beat again till very light, white and smooth. Now put the cake, already baked and hot, in front of the fire, put the icing