Servants' Characters. 1643 third of the income of the estate for life, which is her dower, the heir succeeding to the land subject to that dower. It the deceased be a widower or widow, with child or children, all landed pro- perty goes to the only or eldest son, or (if no son) to daughter or daughters equally as co-parceners. The personal property goes to children equally (if more than one) irrespective of sex. In other circumstances, an intestate’s property goes according to the Statute of Distributions. Its provisions are, at best, exceedingly complicated, and are liable to further complications by means of what are called “ advancements,” and other matters, so that proceeding in administration without early resort to a solicitor is exceedingly unwise. 3736. Domestic Servants.—Every hiring of a domestic servant is pre- sumed to be for a year, unless clearly expressed to be otherwise, consequently the hiring a day or two before commencement of service is invalid, because extending over more than a year. But though the hiring be for a year, the wages are payable monthly, from the day of commencement of service, and the servant can leave or be dismissed by a month’s notice, or either mistress or servant, by payment or forfeiture of a month’s wages, can there and then terminate the ser- vice without notice. The servant can also be dismissed without warning, and without payment of any portion of the wages of the current month, for gross disobedience to reason- able orders, gross neglect of ordinary duties, gross misconduct, gross immorality, on the premises or elsewhere, gross insolence, gross attempts to injure reputation of mistress or household, gross exercise of unauthorised authority, absence when leave of absence has been expressly refused, or absence all night without reason- able excuse. In every case the offence must be gross, and beyond doubt or quali- fication, or the servant may, perhaps, eventually recover wages for a month or more. The servant is entitled to food in some sort corresponding to the style of living of the family, and cannot be dismissed or punished for appropriating for her own eating any kind of food, unless she has been expressly ordered not to eat any exceptional thing. Then, if she does, she may be dismissed as for insolence. During the undoubted temporary illness of a servant she is entitled to reason- able care and indulgence, but the employer is not bound to provide medicines or medical attendance. If the illness be prolonged the employer is entitled to ter- minate the service in any manner reasonably considerate. The servant is not in the least liable for breakages which are purely accidental, unless payment oh account of them has been expressly stipulated for ; but the servant is liable, for malicious injuries, to instant dismissal and damages. Servants under twenty-one are not legally responsible with reference to service. Such a servant can go when she likes, though the employer must treat her as if of full age. In every respect the employer is bound by the contract ; but the servant is not. Some security may be obtained by making the engagement with the mother of the servant, on her daughter’s behalf, which is a good plan, and is at least likely to be some check upon indiscretion. 3737- Servants’ Characters.— Every employer is legally entitled to firmly refuse to give any servant a character, and may decline to answer any questions on the subject. If a good character is given when the servant is known to be a bad character, the responsibility, in case of the servant’s offence against the new employer, is very great. If a bad or indifferent character is given, the employer must be fully prepared to substantiate what is said or written, or a liability for damages may arise.