1576 The Doctor. bed and have a milk diet. Hot flannels or cotton wool, or spongio-piline, should be wrapped round the throat, and steam may be inhaled into the mouth. When dropsy comes on it shows the kidneys are affected, and the patient must be put to bed again if he has been up previously. A. hot bath and purgatives must be given to remedy this state of things. Exposure to cold too soon after an attack of scarlet fever is often a cause of dropsy, so that care should be taken to keep the patient in the house for at least three weeks after the rash and until the peeling has quite finished. During the stage of peeling, baths containing an anti- septic such as sanitas should be occasionally given, care being taken to see that the water is as warm as the patient can comfortably bear it, and that a warm bottle is placed in the bed, or other precaution used, to ensure his freedom from chill. When there is great prostration ammonia may require to be given. The throat may he brushed over with tannin and glycerine. During convalescence tonics should be administered, and for this purpose quinine and iron are probably the best. In regard to the disinfecting measures to be used, the reader is referred to the remarks under the head of “Contagion.” 3541. Typhoid Fever.—Typhoid fever is a continuous and infectious fever, caused chiefly by the influence of bad drains and sewer-gas, lasting an uncertain period of from four to six weeks, and sometimes followed by a relapse. It is also known by the names of low, enteric, gastric and drain fever. It seems to have been known from the earliest times. It is always endemic in the British Isles, but seems to be most common in England. Causes.—Among the predisposing causes are age, mode of prevalence, months and seasons, temperature and moisture, idiosyncrasy, mental emotion and fatigue, residence in an infected locality, overcrowding and deficient ventilation, occupation and station of life. 1. Typhoid fever appears to attack one sex as readily as the other. 2. The disease is chiefly met with in youth and adolescence. Persons under thirty are nearly twice as liable to typoid fever as those above thirty, because there are so many more persons alive of the previous age. 3. Typhoid fever is always endemic amongst us, and the cases treated in the London hospitals do not vary greatly from year to year. 4. It is most common in the autumn and winter. 5. It is most common after a dry and hot summer, and unusually scarce in summers that are cold and wet. 6. It does not appear that intemperance, fatigue and mental emotions predispose to this disease. 7. Some people, owing to what is called a peculiar idiosyncrasy, are more liable to it than others. 8. All classes are alike subject to it when exposed to the exciting cause. 9. Fresh comers in an affected locality take the fever more readily than the ordinary residents of the place. 10. There is no clear evidence that occupation has much influence; those who work in sewers are, however, very subject to it. 11. No station in life is exempt from this insidious malady; rich as well as poor are attacked by it. The exciting causes are contagion and spontaneous degenera- tion. Numbers of cases go to prove that those nursing”the sick from this disease very frequently catch it, and they probably do so from the emanations of the stools. Whenever any drainage soaks from the surface into a well used for drinking purposes, or when sewer gases escape into a house by a leaky pipe, or when the traps are out of order, or when one drinks foul or stagnant water into which any drainage from manure can enter, then arise the conditions which excite the disease. Very many houses are improperly drained, and whenever a storm occurs and the sewers are suddenly flushed, the gases escape upwards into the waste-pipes of the houses along the route and overcome the resistance of the traps, so that a most noxious smell arises whenever the handle of a water-closet is raised. It is of the utmost importance that all water-closets should be outside the house; that the waste-pipe should not communicate with the main sewer unless there be first a communication with the open air, so that the backward pressure will never