267 Trout with Spanish Sauce. 570.—STEWED TROUT. (Fr.—Truite au Vin Rouge.) Ingredients.—2 good-sized trout, \ onion, cut in thin slices; a little parsley, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 bay leaves, a little thyme, salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of medium stock, No. 273 ; 1 glass of claret or port wine, 1 oz. each of butter and flour. Mode.—Wash the fish very clean, and wipe it quite dry. Lay it in a stewpan, with all the ingredients but the butter and flour, and simmer gently for half an hour, or rather more, should not the fish be quite done. Take it out, strain the gravy, thicken as in the preceding recipe ; pour it over the trout, and serve. Time.—According to size, £ hour or more. Average Cost, is. to 2s. per lb. Cooked in this way, 3s. 6d. Seasonable from February to September, and fatter from the middle to the end of August than at any other time. Sufficient for 6 persons. Trout may be served with anchovy or caper sauce, baked in buttered paper, or fried whole like smelts. Trouts dressed a la Genevese are extremely delicate; for this proceed the same as with salmon, No. 533. The Trout.—This fish, though esteemed by the moderns for its delicacy, was little regarded by the ancients. Although it abounded in the lakes of the Roman Empire, it is generally mentioned by writers only on account of the beauty of its colours. About the end of September they quit the deep water to which they have retired during the hot weather, for the purpose of spawning. This they always do on a gravelly bottom, or where gravel and sand are mixed among stones, towards the end or by the sides of streams. At this period they become black about the head and body, and become soft and unwholesome. They are never good when they are large with roe ; but there are in all trout rivers some barren female fish, which continue good throughout the winter. In the common trout, the stomach is uncommonly strong and muscular, shell-fish forming a portion of the food of the animal ; and it takes into its stomach gravel or small stones in order to assist in comminuting it. THE TROUT. 571-TROUT WITH SPANISH SAUCE. (Fr.—Truite a I’Espagnole.) Ingredients.—2 young trout, | pint olive oil, a bouquet of herbs, pepper and salt. Mode.—Chop the herbs fine and put them in the oil, and, after cleaning and scaling the trout, lay them in it to soak for an hour, turning them now and then so that the oil should cover them. Take them out, dip