Chaudfroid of Chicken. 641 1338B.-ORANGE GRAVY FOR WILD FOWL, WIDGEON, TEAL, &c. Ingredients.—4 pint of white stock, No. 278, 1 small onion, 3 or 4 strips of lemon or orange peel, a few leaves of basil, if at hand, the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, salt and pepper to taste, 1 glass of port. Mode.—Put the onion, cut in slices, into a stewpan with the stock, orange peel and basil, and let them simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour or rather longer; should the gravy not taste sufficiently of the peel, strain it off, and add to the gravy the remaining ingredients; let the whole heat through, and, when on the point of boiling, serve. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. 4d. ENTREES FROM POULTRY. I339-C HAUDFROID OF CHICKEN. (Fr.—Chaudfroid de Volaille.) Ingredients.—2 roasted fowls, 1 quart of stock, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 shalots, sweet herbs, 3 cloves, £ gill of white wine, 1 lemon, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of flour. Mode.—Cut up the fowls into suitable joints, and lay them aside. Boil the bones and trimmings with the stock, wine and vegetables for two or three hours. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and the stock, and the yolks of two or three eggs. This sauce must be thick enough to adhere to the pieces of fowl when they are dipped into it as it begins to cool. Coat each joint of chicken with the sauce, and arrange them in a dish, with garnish of aspic jelly, truffles, &c. If liked, a border mould of aspic jelly can be set in the dish, and the chicken heaped up in the middle. It is usual to make the sauce white, but it may be brown, with a garnish of white of egg stamped into various shapes. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 7s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1340.—CHICKEN CUTLETS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Volaille.) Ingredients.—2 chickens, seasoning to taste of salt, white pepper and cayenne; 2 blades of pounded mace, egg and bread-crumbs, clarified butter, 1 strip of lemon-rind, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of mush- room ketchup, thickening of butter and flour, 1 egg.