736 Recipes fov Cooking Vegetables. 1542.-FRENCH MODE OF COOKING FRENCH BEANS. (Fr.—Haricots Verts Sautes au Beurre.) Ingredients.—A quart of French beans, 3 oz. of fresh butter, pepper and salt to taste, the juice of ^ lemon. Mode.—Cut and boil the beans by the preceding recipe, and when tender, put them into a stewpan, and shake over the fire, to dry away the moisture from the beans. When quite dry and hot, add the butter, pepper, salt and lemon-juice ; keep moving the stewpan, without using a spoon, as that would break the beans ; and when the butter is melted, and all is thoroughly hot, serve. If the butter should not mix well add a tablespoonful of gravy, and serve very quickly. Chopped parsley and lemon-juice added just before serving make haricots verts a la maitre d 'hotel. Time.—About \ hour to boil the beans : 10 minutes to shake them over the fire. Average Cost, in full season, about ad- per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the middle of May to the end of September. 1543—BOILED BROAD OR WINDSOR BEANS. (Fr.— Feves a la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—To each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; beans. Mode.—This is a favourite vegetable with many persons, but to be nice, should be young and freshly gathered. After shelling the beans, put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion, and boil rapidly until tender. Drain them well in a colander; dish, and serve with them separately a tureen of parsley and butter. Eoiled bacon often ac- companies this vegetable, but the beans should be cooked separately. It is usually served with the beans laid round, and the parsley and butter in a tureen. Beans also make an excellent garnish to a ham, and when used for this purpose, if very old, should have their skins removed. Time.—Very young beans, 15 minutes ; when of a moderate size, 20 to 25 minutes, or longer. Average Cost, unshelled, 6d. per peck. Sufficient.—Allow 1 peck for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in July and August. broad bean. Nutritive Properties of the Bean.—The produce of beans in meal is, like that of peas, more in proportion to the grain than in any of cereal grasses. A bushel ol beans is supposed to yield fourteen pounds more of flour than a bushel of oats ; and a