241 Oyster Fritters. 506.—MUSSELS. (Fr.—Moules.) Ingredients.—I quart of mussels, parsley, 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, 1 or 2 eggs, vinegar. Mode.—Clean the shells and put the mussels in a pan of boiling water and boil for 20 minutes. Melt the butter in another pan, put with it a little vinegar, parsley chopped, and some seasoning, then add the flour and the strained liquor, and the yolks of eggs. Pour over the mussels, shelled, and serve at once. Time-—20 minutes. Average Cost, 8ff. Seasonable all the year round, but most plentiful from June to September. 507.—DEVILLED OYSTERS. (Fr.—Huitres a la Diable.) Ingredients.—3 dozen oysters, salt, cayenne, 6 oz. of butter. Mode.—Open the oysters, but do not remove them from their shells nor spill the liquor. Under each oyster put salt and cayenne pepper ac- cording to taste, and a small knob of butter on top. Put them on the gridiron over a bright, clear fire for 4 minutes. Serve on a napkin, with thin brown bread and butter. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, id. to 3^. each. Seasonable from September to April. 508.—FRIED OYSTERS. (Fr.—Huitres Frites.) Ingredients.—3 dozen oysters, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, a little chopped lemon-peel, £ a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, fritter batter, fat or oil to fry. Mode.—Boil the oysters for 1 minute in their own liquor, dip them in the batter and drain them ; fry them, lay them on a dish, and garnish with fried potatoes, toasted sippets and parsley. This is a delicous delicacy, and is a favourite Italian dish. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost for this quantity, 3s. 3d. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. 509.—OYSTER FRITTERS. (Fr.—Beignets de Huitres.) Ingredients.—£ a pint of water, 6 oz. of flour, the whites of 2 eggs, a tablespoonful of oil or oiled butter, 24 large oysters, frying fat or oil. Mode.—Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them gradually into the batter. Drop the oysters in the batter, fish them out with a skewer, and drop them into the pan of fat, which must be very hot. The oysters