484 General Observations on the Sheep and Lamb. on the milk of several dams, and last of all, though the fattest, the grass-fed lamb ; this, however, implies an age much greater than either of the others. 1065. Lamb, in the early part of the season, however reared, is, in London, and indeed generally, sold in quarters, divided with eleven ribs to the fore-quarter ; but, as the season advances, these are subdivided into two, and the hind-quarter in the same manner: the first consisting of the shoulder and the neck and breast; the latter of the leg and the loin—as shown in the cut illustrative of mutton. As lamb, from the juicy nature of its flesh, is especially liable to spoil in unfavourable weather, it should be frequently wiped, so as to remove any moisture that may form on it. In choosing lamb there are certain signs by which the experienced judgment is able to form an accurate opinion whether the animal has been lately slaughtered, and whether the joints possess that condition of fibre indicative of good and wholesome meat. The first of these doubts may be solved satisfactorily by the bright and dilated appearance of the eye; the quality of the fore-quarter can always be guaranteed by the blue or healthy ruddiness of the jugular, or vein of the neck ; while the rigidity of the knuckle, and the firm, compact feel of the kidney, will answer in an equally positive manner for the integrity of the hind-quarter. 1066. Mode of Cutting up Lamb.—Lamb when large is cut into the same joints as mutton, when small it is sold in quarters; the leg and loin to the hind, and the shoulder, breast and neck to the fore-quarter. Lambs’ sweetbreads are considered a delicacy, and are expensive. Lamb’s fry consists of the liver, sweetbread, some of the inside fat or “ leaf,” and the heart. Lamb’s kidney, lamb’s head and lamb’s trotters are also eaten. The fore- quarter of lamb is, by many persons, preferred ; but the leg, here as in mutton, is most economical. However, few persons eat lamb except as a luxury, and so questions of economy are more or less out of place. A good deal of lamb is now imported from New Zealand, and is always cheaper than the home grown. Lamb is to be had in London from Christmas until late autumn. It is dear and scarce from January to March, gets cheaper through the summer months, from Easter to July or August; and late in the season, as far on as October, lamb is still sent southwards from Scotland. All young meat is less nourishing, and is said to be less digestible, than full- grown ; but lamb has a better reputation in this respect than veal. Lamb should not be in the least high: and if, therefore, it has to be kept it should be partly cooked, as that is the most certain way to preserve it from taint. SIDE OF LAMB. i. Neck ; 2, Breast; 3, Shoulder j 4, Loin ; 5> Leg.