1594 The Doctor. 3579. Fainting.—In this affection there is pallor of the face, coldness, perspiration, feeble, shallow and irregular breathing, noises in the ears, indis- tinctness of vision and giddiness. Treatment.—Lay the patient at once upon the back : remove all constricting articles of clothing from about the neck and apply strong smelling salts to the nostrils. Sprinkle cold water over the face : give half a teaspoonful of spirit of sal volatile by the mouth in a little water. 3580. Foreign Bodies.—In the Nose.—These are peas, beads, sweets, cherry-stones and such like. Treatment.—If old enough get the child to forcibly ‘blow down the obstructed nostril after taking a deep breath, while the finger is pressed tightly against the free nostril. Failing this, grasp the nostril behind the seat of obstruction and introduce a small flat article such as the handle of a salt spoon beyond it and endeavour to scoop it out. In the Ear.—Treatment.—If an insect has found its way into the ear, fill it with olive oil, when it will generally float on the top. If a pea, bead or cherry-stone use the head of a hair pin as a snare and with the utmost gentleness endeavour to insinuate it beyond the object it is intended to remove. In the Eye.—Treatment.—If the offending substance is not imbedded in the globe of the eye it will generally be easily removed, either with or without everting the lid, by using the corner of a soft pocket handkerchief, or a camel’s hair pencil moistened with water or olive oil. If the substance is imbedded in the globe of the eye, a camel’s hair pencil dipped in water or oil may be passed over it and an effort made to dislodge it. Should this fail, and medical assistance is not at hand, a blunt-pointed instrument may be carefully passed across the surface. Should quick-lime get into the eye, wash it out as thoroughly as possible with water, then bathe with a lotion consisting of a teaspoonful of vinegar to a wineglassful of water, or drop a little sweet oil into the eye. In case of injury by acid, bathe with milk or one part of lime water to three of water. 3581. Fractures.—Treatment.—When a fracture has taken place the object is to bring the ends of the bone that has been broken as nearly as possible to the condition they were in previous to the accident. In order to do this, the part nearest the body must be steadied by some one, while that furthest removed is gently stretched out, the sound limb being uncovered and acting as guide. Having got the limb into good position splints must be applied to fix it in the position in which it has been placed. 3582. Hcemorrage or Bleeding.—Bleeding from an artery is distin- guished from that of a vein by being brighter in colour, and by its coming out of the wound in a saltatory or jumping way. Treatment.—If from a vein make a compress by folding a piece of lint or a small handkerchief up, and apply it to the wound with a bandage over it. This treatment also generally answers in bleeding from small arteries, although the pressure requires to be greater. From Varicose Veins.—Treatment.—Place the patient on his back, and apply a compress and bandage, or put half-a-crown or a penny in a handkerchief, place it over the wound, and tie it. From the Nose.—Treatment.—Apply cold water cloths or ice to the forehead ; raise the arms above the head ; seize the nose between the fingers, and squeeze the sides together ; syringe the nostrils with vinegar or hot water and salt. One or other of these methods may be tried, or they may all be tried in turn if the bleeding is difficult to check. From Leech-bites.—Treatment.—Lay a crystal of iron alum upon the wound. Dried alum and tannic acid may be used in a similar manner. Two strong