Cleansing of Cooking Utensils. gg you, with good management in planning out your work, to send up your dinner exactly at the hour appointed. 201. Cleansing of Cooking Utensils.—This is one of the cook's or kitchen-maid’s most important duties, and one that should on no account be neglected or left from one day to another. When you have washed your saucepans, fish-kettle, etc., stand them before the fire for a few minutes to get thoroughly dry inside before putting away. They should then be put in a dry place in order to escape the deteriorating influence of rust. Put some water into them directly they are done with, if they have to stand some time before they are washed. Soups or gravies should never be allowed to stand all night in saucepans. Frying pans should be cleaned (if black inside) with a crust of bread, and washed with hot water and soda. It is a good plan to have a little old knife kept especially for peeling onions, but if otherwise, the one used should be at once washed and set aside. With copper utensils, if the tin has worn off have it immediately replaced. Clean your coppers with turpentine and fine brick-dust, or waste lemon skins and sand, rubbed on with flannel, and polish them with a leather and a little dry brick-dust. Clean tins with soap and whiting, or, better still, with Pickering’s Polishing Paste, rubbing on with soft rag or flannel, wiping them with a dry soft doth, and lastly polishing them with a leather. 202. Washing of Dishes, cPc.—Do not be afraid of hot water in washing up dishes and dirty cooking utensils ; as these are essentially greasy, lukewarm water cannot possibly have the effect of cleansing them effectually, and soda ill the water is a great saving of time as is also changing or renewing the water. After washing the plates and dishes wash out your dish tubs with a little soap, soda and water, and scrub them often ; wash the dish cloth also and wring it out, and after wiping out the tubs stand them to dry. Pudding cloths and jelly bags should have immediate attention after being used; the former should be well washed, scalded, and hung up to dry. Let them be perfectly aired before being put away. No soda should be used in washing pudding cloths. 203. The Sink.—Do not throw any waste but water down the sink, as the pipe is liable to get choked, thereby causing expense and annoyance. At least three times a week pour a pailful of boiling soda water down every trap, for this prevents accumulation of fat which more often than anything else stops up sink pipes. Many people do not sufficiently realise the importance of this duty, but it is a most necessary one; particularly for the avoidance of bad smells (so often caused by a stoppage in the sink pipes), which are not only disagreeable but dangerous in a household. To all these directions the cook should pay attention ; nor should they by any means be neglected by the Mistress of the household, who ought to remember that cleanliness in the kitchen gives health and happiness to home, whilst economy will immeasurably assist in preserving them. Habits of carelessness and wastefulness are some of the most difficult to eradicate, and they thrive as well in the kitchen as anywhere. Let the cook and her helpers reflect that they may have to exercise the essential good qualities of neatness, cleanliness and economy in their own homes and for their own welfare, when they will feel thankful that they practised them before for the benefit of their employers.