1336 General Observations on Dinners and Dining. 3042. Dinner Giving.—The next thing to be thought of is the dinner, and varying that very good old maxim, “ Cut your cloak according to your cloth,” we should say, choose your dinner according to your cook. When fortunate enough to posses a thoroughly good one, one need not be afraid of trying a few experi- ments, but otherwise it is a dangerous thing, and if any contretemps occur, it is the mistress, and not the cook, who suffers. It is a grand thing to feel confident of what is coming to table, when one is at the head of it, and no hostess is likely to be quite happy or at ease, with any fear on her mind as to how the next course will turn out. Far better is it to have a simple dinner, which one knows will be properly cooked and served, than to risk anything more elaborate, for it is almost impos- sible to appear utterly unconcerned when one is harassed by petty cares, and a thoroughly good hostess is one who is able herself to enjoy, without anxiety, the dinner she is giving to her friends. 3043. Temperature of Room.—Another very important thing very often overlooked, is the temperature of the dining-room. More than once, in the depth of winter, we have heard people say, "We will not have a fire in the dining-room, for it gets so hot before dinner is over,” seeming to forget there is a beginning to everything as well as ar ?nd, and if in evening dress we shiver through three or four courses, even if "re get warmer later on, it has spoilt the whole thing. Another in the same season will, “on hospitality intent,” make the room unen- durably hot with high piled fires, and the heat is, perhaps, almost more difficult to bear than the cold. We maintain that it is not possible to thoroughly enjoy a good dinner in a room either too hot or too cold, and would ask hostesses to well consider the subject. 3044. Warming of the Dining-room—In many of the modern houses, it is easy enough with hot-water pipes taking the place of fires, and well planned ventilators to have, and to keep the room at a pleasant temperature, and we think the pipes a very great improvement upon fires for warming dining- rooms. Still there are many rooms to which these could not easily be fitted, and very many people who object to them, and prefer to see good old-fashioned fires. Rooms so vary in the way of being easily warmed or the reverse, that one can lay down no rule, but the main thing is to heat them by the before- mentioned fires to a fair temperature during the day, and (if necessary) let the fire out during dinner, and to have proper ventilation without draught. The latter can generally be effected by consulting proper people upon the subject, and a valve which allows a free current of air to circulate round the upper part of the room, is an excellent thing, while one’s servants should be instructed to refer occasionally to a thermometer, and act accordingly with regard both to fire and ventilation. In any case screen the fire for the sake of those who may have to sit with their backs to it, and for this purpose there is nothing better than a glass screen through which it can be seen but not felt. Let it be also remembered that the lighting (except by electricity) makes a very great difference to the heat of the room, and it is wise to have the full amount required for the evening put on some time beforehand, so that we may judge of its effect. 3045. Dining in Hot Weather.—In warm weather the subject of temperature is often more difficult to deal with, and yet it is quite as nece^ary to keep a room cool in summer ?s warm in winter. SALT-CELLAR.