778 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 1626.—RED CABBAGE SALAD. (Fr.—Chou Rouge a I’Huile.) Ingredients.—A small red cabbage, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 1 pint of vinegar, 3 teaspoonfuls of oil, a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Mode. —Take off the outside leaves of a fresh red cabbage, and cut the remainder very finely into small thin slices. Mix with the cabbage the above salad ingredients, and let it remain for two days, when it will be fit for use. This salad will keep very well for a few days. The quantities of the ingredients may of course be a little varied, according to taste. Time.—2 days. Average Cost, from 4d. to 6d. each. Seasonable in July and August. 1627.—WINTER SALAD. (Fr.—Salade.) Ingredients.—Endive, mustard-and-cress, boiled beetroot, 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs, celery. Mode.—The above ingredients form the principal constituents of a winter salad, and may be converted into a very pretty dish by nicely contrasting the various colours and by tastefully garnishing it. Shred the celery into thin pieces, after having carefully washed and cut away all worm-eaten pieces ; cleanse the endive and mustard-and-cress free from grit, and arrange these high in the centre of a salad-bowl or dish ; garnish with the hard-boiled eggs and beetroot, both of which should be cut in slices, and pour into the dish, but not over the salad, either of the sauces No. 764, 765, or 766. Never dress a salad long before it is required for table, as, by standing, it loses its freshness and pretty crisp and light appearance ; the sauce, however, may always be prepared a few hours beforehand, and when required for use, the herbs laid lightly over it. Average Cost, 9d. for a salad for 5 or 6 persons. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from the end of September to March. Salads.—Salads are raw vegetables of which, among us, the lettuce is the most generally used ; several others, however, such as cresses, celery, onions, beetroot, &c., are occasionally employed. As vegetables eaten in a raw state are apt to ferment on the stomach, and as they have very little stimulative power upon that organ, they are usually dressed with some con- diments, such as pepper, vinegar, salt, mustard and oil. Respecting the use of these, medical men disagree, especially in reference to oil, which is condemned by some and recommended by others. 1628.—POTATO SALAD. (Fr.—Pommes de Terre au Salade.) Ingredients.—10 or 12 cold boiled potatoes, 4 tablespoonfuls of tarragon or plain vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley.