744 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Time.—About J hour to parboil the carrots, about 20 minutes to chok them after they are sliced. Average Cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to June ; old ones at any time. Nutritive Properties of the Carrot.—Sir H. Davy ascertained the nutritive matter of the carrot to amount to ninety-eight parts in one thousand ; of which ninety-five are sugar and three are starch. It is used in winter and spring in the dairy to give colour and flavour to butter; and it is excellent insjews, haricots, soups, and, when boiled whole, with salt beef. In the distillery, owing to the great propoi Con of sugar in its composition, it yields more spirit than the potato. The usual quantity is twelve gallons per ton. 1557.—CARROTS FOR GARNISH. (Fr.—Carottes au Jus.) Ingredients.—5 or 6 large carrots, a large lump of sugar, 1 pint of weak stock, 3 oz. of fresh butter, salt to taste. Mode.—Scrape and wash the carrots, cut them into slices of an equal size, and boil them in salt and water until half-done ; drain them well, put them into a stewpan with the sugar and stock, and let them boil over a brisk fire. When reduced to a glaze, add the fresh butter and a season- ing of salt; shake the stewpan about well, and when the butter is well mixed with the carrots, serve. There should be no sauce in the dish when it comes to table, but it should all adhere to the carrots. Time.—Altogether, \ hour. Average Cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch. Sufficient for I dish. Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to June ; old ones at any time. The Seed of the Carrot.—In order to save the seed of carrots, the plan is to select annually the most perfect and best shaped roots in the taking-up season, and either preserve them in sand in a cellar till spring, or plant them immediately in an open airy part of the garden, protecting them with litter during severe frost, or earthing them over, and uncovering them in March follow- ing. The seed is in no danger from being injured by any other plant. In August it is fit to gather, and is best preserved on the stalks till wanted. 1558.—CARROTS. (Fr.—Carottes a la Poulette.) Ingredients.— 1 bunch of young carrots, 3 oz. of butter, 4 gill of water, 1 pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 gill of cream, 4 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.— Blanch the carrots in boiling water for 5 minutes, wipe, and rub off the skin with a clean cloth, cut off the green head and the point, and cut in slices the thickness of a halfpenny; place them in a quart saucepan, and add half a gill of water, 3 oz. of butter, the salt and sugar, cover the saucepan, and stew slowly for 20 minutes, shaking the sauce- pan every 5 minutes to ensure their cooking equally. If done enough they will feel soft and give way under the finger. Beat the yolks of the eggs, cream, butter and parsley for 5 minutes, add, shake over the fire for 5 minutes, and serve. Time.—30 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable from April to June