Furnished Apartments. 1635 and property of his lodger. Such householder is liable for any injury to the lodger resulting from leaving any outer door unfastened at night, or from the employment of dishonest servants, or from permitting persons of doubtful character to enter or assemble in the house, and for any kind of wilful neglect or gross carelessness through which the lodger sutlers injury. But in the absence of any specific neglect on his part, the householder is not liable for the safe keeping of his lodger's property, unless it has been de- livered to him for the purpose and he has accepted the charge, for the lodger is the sole custodian of his own property, and, though the landlord’s servant steal it, the landlord is not responsible, unless he is proved to have known ot the servant’s previous dishonesty, 3723. Liability for Householder’s Rent.—Asall the goods of strangers, unless in the way ol trade, are liable to seizure and sale under a distress for rent, a lodger’s furniture and other goods are peculiarly in jeopardy in such a case, as the lodger’s door may be legally broken open. Formerly, there was no remedy for this. The only course possible for the lodger was to pay the rent levied for, and deduct the amount in account with the householder for rent ; and, even now, if the lodger be absent for a week or more, his goods may be taken without any remedy except recovery of the money from the householder. For, even where the lodger is present, his goods may still be seized for the householder’s rent, and sold, unless the lodger makes an inventory of his goods, and delivers it to the bailiff with a written declaration, duly signed, that the lodger owes no rent to the householder, and is in rightful possession of such goods. When there is no such declaration, the bailiff may proceed as formerly, and is not bound to believe the declaration, and may proceed as though it had never been made ; in which case the lodger must appeal to a magistrate wherever he can be found, who is authorised to make an order in restraint of the bailiff. Any money which a lodger may voluntarily pay to get rid of the bailiff, is a complete set-off against any rent owing or subsequently becoming due to the householder. 3724. Furnished Apartments.— Every one who lets furnished houses or furnished apartments legally covenants, whether expressed or not, that the house and furniture are habitable, and free from anything that may render residence there by reasonable people intolerable. Should such cause for coni■ plaint proveto be present, the lodger, upon discovery of the grievance, and giving notice to that effect and prompt departure, is legally entitled to take that course without paying any rent, and the same right accrues should attendance or other service stipulated for be grossly insufficient. Rent for apartments becomes due as stipulated for, generally by the week, and if the lodger attempt to leave, such lodger’s property, to the amount due, can be detained, but the person of a lodger or other tenant is free from molesta- tion orf detention, all clothing and property on the person being strictly free from seizure, any attempt to the contrary being an assault severely punishable. Notice to quit apartments is not legally requisite, but if given the necessity for it is implied, and it must be for a clear interval of a week or_ otherwise, according to the period at which rent is payable. In all cases it is the safer course to give such notice, or much annoyance may result. 3725. Marriage.—Cousins of any degree may legally marry, but other near blood relations cannot.. 'The prohibitions include many concerning which there is no chance of any question arising, tne only cases about which practical know- ledge is generally necessary being that a woman cannot legally marry her late husband’s brother, nor a man his late wife’s sister. The prohibition in the former case very rarely comes into practical consideration, but cases of marriage between a man and his late wife’s sister are comparatively frequent. Every such marriage