287 Meat Gravies. It should be borne in mind, however, that the goodness and strength of spices, wines, flavourings, &c., evaporate, and that they lose a great deal of their fragrance, if added to the gravy a long time before they are wanted. If this point is attended to, a saving of one half the quantity of these ingredients will be effected, as, with long boiling, the flavour almost entirely passes away. The shank-bones of mutton, previously well soaked, will be found a great assistance in enriching gravies ; a kidney or melt, beef skirt, trimmings of meat, &c. &c., answer very well when only a small quantity is wanted; and, as we have before observed, a good gravy need not necessarily be so very expensive, for economically-pre- pared dishes are oftentimes found as savoury and wholesome as dearer ones. The cook should also remember that the fragrance of gravies should not be overpowered by too much spice, or any strong essences, and that they should always be warmed in a bain marie, after they are flavoured, or else in a jar or jug placed in a saucepan full of boiling water. The remains of roast-meat gravy should always be saved ; as, when no meat is at hand, a very nice gravy in haste may be made from it, and when added to hashes, ragouts, &c., is a great improvement. Gravy Kettle.—This is a utensil which will not be found in every kitchen ; but it is a useful one where it is necessary to keep gravies hot for the purpose of pouring over various dishes as they are cooking. It is made of copper, and should, consequently, be heated over the hot plate, if there be one, or a charcoal stove. gravy kettle. 613.—A GOOD BEEF GRAVY FOR POULTRY, GAME, &c. (Fr.—Jus de Viande pour Volaille, Gibier, &c.) Ingredients.—I lb. of lean beef, pint of cold water, 1 shalot or small onion, £ a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, 1 tablespoonful of store sauce or mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of arrowroot. Mode.—Cut up the beef into small pieces, and put it, with the water, into a stewpan. Add the shalot and seasoning, and simmer gently for 3 hours, taking care that it does not boil fast. A short time before it is required, take the arrowroot, and having mixed it with a little cold water, pour it into the gravy, which keep stirring, adding the sauce, and just letting it boil. Strain off the gravy in a tureen, and serve very hot. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 8d. per pint. 614.—BROWN GRAVY. (Fr.—Jus de Viande.) Ingredients.—2 oz. butter, 2 large onions, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, 2 small slices of lean bacon (if at hand), salt and whole pepper to taste, 3 oloves, 2 quarts of water. For thickening, 2 oz. of butter, 3 oz. flour. L