122 Introduction to Cookery. 251. Inconvenience of not being able to Carve.—Very often we hear from either master or mistress that they do not attempt to carve, as the other likes to do it; so that if that ether happen to be absent at any meal-time there is trouble in the land. Another very serious inconvenience which often happens when the lady of the house does not understand carving is that, when entertaining at the head of the table, she has often a dish placed before her which she is obliged to consign to the gentleman next to her, who is bound to offer his services, however incom- petent he may know himself to be. The result is very often that he is hopelessly ignorant, and shamefully mangles the unfortunate joint or bird; while his hostess, having to look on while he is vainly struggling and her friends are impatiently waiting, until after much delay they get helped, generally in a very unequal way, some getting more than they want, others less than they would like, still has to smile and thank him for having spoilt the dish and given several people at least dissatisfaction. We pass over the misery of the poor man who has had to do the work, who, if he be at all of a nervous temperament, is sure to get very hot and uncomfortable, conscious as he is of many eyes upon him. Most of our readers will, we think, at some time or other remember having seen something of this sort happen. It will be said that everything is carved for us nowadays, when it is the fashion to have nothing but flowers put upon the table ; but this can only be an everyday occurrence in the houses of the very rich ; and even they at luncheon or breakfast often carve for themselves ; while the majority of us do not possess sufficient servants (with a good carver amongst them) to attempt it even when entertaining. There is necessity for learning.—We hold that every man and woman must at some time or other have occasion to carve, and that they therefore ought to be able to do so properly, while with girls and youths it ought to be a branch of their education. The most important argument in favour of this opinion is that so much waste is saved. 252. Skill and economy.—In the hands of a skilful carver a joint will go much further than otherwise; he will help evenly, cutting the joint carefully, so that if there should be enough to spare for its reappearance it will present a decent one; there will be no undue preponderance of fat or lean left, and no scraps, and he will have filled the plates before the meat has cooled. As the meat is cut upstairs so it will be cut below, servants will be afraid to hack at a neatly cut joint, while they will not hesitate to attack one that has already been maltreated. 253. Acquiring the art.— Many people find it very difficult to learn to carve, but as a rule it is because they do not begin at the beginning. They try to cut up a bird without any idea of its anatomy, and to cut slices of meat without knowing how the grain goes or where to find the joints, if any, and they therefore ' cannot succeed. In this book will be found full directions for carving fish, meat, poultry and game, with illustrations to help out the instructions, and a careful study of the same will prevent anyone from making any grave error; but at the same time, as practice alone makes perfect, they should take all the opportunities of carving that come in their way, and when they see a good carver should watch his or her operations and take a lesson therefrom. As a rule these are proud of their skill, and very ready to show the ignorant all they can, how to cut up a fowl without removing the fork from the breast, how to hit exactly the joints of bird or animal, etc.; so that we can see no reason w'hy everyone who tries should not in the end become proficient, and we can assure them that they will not find if time wasted that they have spent in learning what, if it be not a showy accomplishment, is at any rate an excellent domestic qualifica- tion. and one that benefits others as well as ourselves.