Varieties of the Domesticated Hog. 525 in his mess of food, and a little heap of well-burnt cinders, with occasional bits of chalk, should always be kept by the side of his trough, as well as a vessel of clean water; his pound, or the front part of his sty, should be totally free from straw, the brick flooring being every day swept out and sprinkled with a layer of sand. His lair, or sleeping apartment, should be well sheltered by roof and sides from cold, wet and all changes of weather, and the bed made up of a good supply of clean straw, sufficiently deep to enable the pig to burrow his unprotected body beneath it. All the refuse of the garden, in the shape of roots, leaves and stalks, should be placed in a corner of his pound or feeding-chamber, for the delectation of his leisure moments : and once a week, on the family washing-day, a pail of warm soap-suds should be taken into his sty, and by means of a scrubbing-brush and soap, his back, shoulders and flanks, should be well cleaned, and a pail of clean warm water thrown over his body at the conclusion, before he is allowed to retreat to his clean straw to dry himself. By this means the excessive nutrition of his aliment will be corrected, a more perfect digestion insured, and, by opening the pores of his skin, a more vigorous state of health acquired than could have been obtained under any other system. 1151. Varieties of the food supplied.—We have already said that no other animal yields man so many kinds and varieties of luxurious food as is supplied to him by the flesh of the hog, differently prepared ; for almost every part of the animal, either fresh, salted or dried, is used for food, and even those viscera not so employed are of the utmost utility in a domestic point of view. 1152. Without Hide, Horns and Hoofs, constituting the offal of most domestic animals, the pig is still not behind the other mammalia in its usefulness to man. Its skin, especially that of the boar, from its extreme close- ness of texture, when tanned, is employed for the seats of saddles, to cover powder, shot and drinking-flasks ; and the hair, according to its colour, flexi- bility and stubbornness, is manufactured into tooth, nail and hair brushes— others into hat, clothes and shoe brushes ; while the longer and finer qualities are made into long and short brooms and painters’ brushes; and a still more rigid description, under the name of “ bristles, ’’ are used by the shoemaker as needles for the passage of his wax-end. Besides so many benefits and useful services conferred on man by this valuable animal, his fat, in a commercial sense, is quite as important as his flesh, and brings a price equal to the best joints in the carcass. This fat is rendered, or melted out of the caul, or membrane in which it is contained, by boiling water, and, while liquid, run into prepared bladders, when, under the name of lard, it becomes an article of extensive trade and value. 1153. Numerous Varieties of the Domesticated Hog.— The fol- lowing list of breeds may be accepted as the best, presenting severally all those qualities aimed at in the rearing of domestic stock, as affecting both the breeder and the consumer. Native — Berkshire, Essex, York and Cumberland ; Foreign—the Chinese. Before, however, proceeding with the consideration of the different orders, in the series we have placed them, it will be necessary to make a few remarks relative to the pig generally. In the first place, the Black Pig is regarded by breeders as the best and most eligible animal; not only from the fineness and delicacy of the skin, but because it is less affected by the heat in summer, and far less subject to cuticular disease than either the white or bi indled hog, but more particularly from its kindlier nature and greater aptitude to fatten.