1164 Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs. 2594*—CAYENNE CHEESES. Ingredients.—£ lb. of butter, £ lb. of flour, 4 lb. of grated cheese, £ teaspoonful of cayenne, \ teaspoonful of salt; water. Mode.—Rub the butter in the flour; add the grated cheese, cayenne and salt, and mix these ingredients well CAMEMBERT together. Moisten with sufficient water to make the whole into a paste ; roll out and cut into fingers about 4 inches in length. Bake them in a moderate oven a very light colour, and serve very hot. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2595.-RICH CREAM CHEESE. Ingredients.—3 pints of thick cream. Mode.—Take 3 pints of thick cream and put it into a clean wet cloth Tie it up, and hang it in a cool place for 7 or 8 days. Take it from the cloth and put it in another, and then into a mould, with a weight upon it, for 2 or 3 days longer. Turn it twice a day, when it will be fit to use. Time.—10 days. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Seasonable in the spring. CREAM CHEESE. 2596.-TO MAKE A FONDUE. Ingredients.—4 eggs, the weight of 2 in Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese, the weight of 2 in butter; pepper and salt to taste. Mode.— Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; beat the former in a basin, and grate the cheese, or cut it into very thin flakes. Parmesan or Cheshire cheese may be used, whichever is the most con- venient, although the former is considered more suitable for this dish ; or an equal quantity of each may be used. Break the butter into small pieces, add it to the other ingredients, with sufficient pepper and salt to season nicely, and beat the mixture thoroughly. Well whisk the whites of the eggs, stir them lightly in, and either bake the fondue in a souffle- dish or small round cake-tin. Fill the dish only half full, as the fondue should rise very much. Pin a napkin round the tin or dish, and serve very hot and very quickly. If allowed to stand after it is withdrawn from the oven, the beauty and lightness of this preparation will be entirely spoiled.