Eggs of Different Birds. 1155 in smell and taste, and for that reason is considered a delicacy by some and a cheese to be avoided by others. An excellent, but little known English cheese, is one called Wensleydale, which takes its name from the place in which it is made, a small village in Yorkshire. This cheese has the characteristics of Stilton, and is rich in quality. Dorsetshire yields us a very good cheese called Blue veiny, from its blue-veined appearance. It may be compared to Stiltsn in flavour, but is less rich, being made entirely from skimmed milk. EGGS. 2572. The Nutritive Properties of Eggs.— Although the qualities of those belonging to different birds vary somewhat, there is only one opinion as to their nutritive properties. Those of the common hen are most used. The quality of eggs depends much upon the food given to the hen. Eggs in general are considered most easily digestible when little subjected to the art of cookery. The lightest way of dressing them is by poaching, which is effected by putting them for a minute or two into brisk boiling water: this coagulates the external white, without doing the inner part too much. Eggs are much better when new-laid than a day or two afterwards. The usual time allotted for boiling eggs in the shell is 3 to 3J minutes : less time than that in boiling water will not be sufficient to solidify the white, and more will make the yolk hard and less digestible : it is very difficult to guess accurately as to the time. Great care should be employed in putting them into the water, to prevent cracking the shell, which inevitably causes a portion of the white to exude, and lets water into the egg. Eggs are often beaten up raw in nutritive beverages. Eggs are em- ployed in a very great many articles of cookery, entrees, and entremets, and they form an essential ingredient in pastry, creams, flip, &c. It is particularly necessary that they should be quite fresh, as nothing is worse than stale eggs. Cobbett justly says, stale, or even preserved eggs, are things to be run from, not after. hens’ eggs. 2573. The metropolis is supplied with eggs from all parts of the kingdom, and they are likewise largely imported from various places on the ‘Continent ; as France, Holland, Belgium, Guernsey, and Jersey. It appears from official statements mentioned in McCulloch's “ Commercial Dictionary," that the number imported from France alone amounts to about 60,000,000 a year ; and supposing them on an average to cost fourpence a dozen, it follows that we pay our Continental neighbours above ^83,000 a year for eggs. 2574. The eggs of different birds vary much in size and colour. Those of the ostrich are the largest: one laid in the menagerie in Paris weighed 2 lbs 14 oz., held a Dint, and was six inches deep ; this is about the usual size of those brought from Africa. Travellers describe ostrich eggs as of an agreeable taste: they keep longer than hens’ eggs. Drinking-cups are often made of the shell, which is very strong. The eggs of the turkey are almost as mild as those of the hen ; the egg of the goose is large, but well-flavoured. Ducks’ eggs have a rich flavour; the albumen is slightly transparent, or bluish, when set or coagulated by boiling, which requires less time than hens’ eggs. Guinea-fowls’ eggs are smaller and more delicate than those of the hen. Eggs of wild fowl are generally coloured, often spotted ; and the taste generally partakes somewhat of the flavour of the bird they belong to. Those of land birds that are eaten, as theplover, lapwing, ruff, &c., are in general much esteemed ; but those of sea-fowl have, more or less, a strong fishy taste. The eggs of the turtle are very numerous; they consist of yolk only, without shell, and are delicious. The average weight of a hen’s egg in the shell is 2 oz.