1612 The Doctor. eight grains. Mix and divide into six powders. One twice a day to a child a year old. 3662. Whooping Cough.—This is a disease of great frequency in child- hood, and a large proportion of infant mortality is due to this cause. Symptoms.—The earliest is a common cold or catarrh, accorrrpanied by a cough ; ■there is also a slight amount of fever, restlessness and sometimes running at the eyes and nose. The cough in a few days becomes most troublesome, and some glairy fluid may be brought up from the chest; in a week or ten days, but often later, the child will begin to have the characteristic whoop ; the cough comes on in paroxysms and is more frequent by night than by day, each paroxysm begins with a deep and loud inspiration, followed by a succession of short and sharp expirations, again followed by a deep inspiration, and the repeated expirations ; this may go on several times, and last one or two minutes, according to the severity of the case. Just before each attack comes on, the child clings to its nurse or mother ; it sits in an erect position. During the paroxysm the face is flushed, the veins in the head and face prominent, the eyes suffused and watery, and generally there is some glairy fluid expelled from the mouth, or vomiting may come on. After the paroxysm the child will rest for a time, and appear pretty well until the next attack comes on. These symptoms last for three or four weeks, and then the cough abates in severity and frequency, and finally ceases altogether. In most cases there is some bronchitis attending this com- plaint, and this is shown by the hurried breathing, rise of temperature, and by hearing rattling noises over the chest. The more mischief there is in the lungs, the greater is the danger to the child. Convulsions are a sign of bad import, and are generally the immediate cause of death in such cases. Treatment.—In all cases it is best for the child to be kept in the house as soon as the malady has declared itself; in a very mild case it need not be kept in bed, but it should be in a room of warm and even temperature, and protected from draught; it can then be allowed to play about as it likes. If there is any lung affection, it must be put to bed and treated according to the requirements of the case. Other children must not be allowed to come near it, unless they have had an attack previously, in order that its spreading may be prevented. The child must be fed in the usual way, but solid food should be given sparingly. Steel wine is very valuable in cases of whooping-cough, and more especially when there is no fever and during convalescence : it may also stop the diarrhoea, which is now and then present. Numberless remedies have been tried for whooping- cough, but as many of them are powerful and require careful watching, they ought only to be given under medical direction. Some sweet mucilaginous fluid may be given, such as the mucilage of gum acacia mixed with glycerine in the proportion of a teaspoonful of the latter to a tablespoonful of the former ; a tea- spoonful of this being given to a child three or four years old three or four times a day. The spine may be advantageously rubbed with a mixture of opodeldoc and belladonna liniment, two drachms of the latter to an ounce and a half of the former ; it may be applied night and morning. Warm clothing ought to be worn, and during convalescence a nourishing diet, moderate exercise in the open air when fine, a tepid bath in the morning, and a tonic, as steel wine or cod-liver oil, must be enjoined. SICK-NURSINQ-. 3663. Ventilation.—One of the foremost subjects to be treated of in a chapter on sick nursing is that of ventilation. It is impossible to deal successfully with disease if fresh air is debarred from entering the sick-room ; because impure air not only depresses those already weakened by disease, but the poison in the