1:094 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. 2409.—UN FERMENTED BREAD. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of wheat meal, ^ oz. avoirdupois of muriatic acid, oz. avoirdupois of carbonate of soda, water enough to make it a proper consistence. For white flour, 4 lbs. of flour, | oz. avoirdupois of muriatic acid, £ oz. of carbonate of soda, water about 1 quart. Mode.—First mix the soda and flour well together in a pan, then pour the acid into the water, and mix well. Mix all together to the required consistence, and bake in a hot oven immediately. It keeps moist longer than bread made with yeast, and is more sweet and digestible. This is good for persons who suffer from indigestion. Time.—1J hour. Average Cost, 9d. Note.—Lime water is very useful and beneficial in bread-making ; it gives all the whiteness and softness produced by the use of alum, and has the further merit of taking away any acidity there may be in the dough. The process of baking is the same. 2410.—AMERICAN BREAD. (To be eaten hot.) Ingredients.—2 breakfast-cups of white Indian meal, 1 breakfast-cup of flour, 3 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately; 2! cups of milk, 1 large tablespoonful of butter, melted, but not hot; 1 large tablespoonful of white sugar, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in hot water, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, sifted with the flour and added the last thing, x tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Bake steadily, but not too fast, in a well-greased mould; turn out when done upon a plate, and eat at once, cutting it into slices as you would cake. In cutting corn-bread do not forget to hold the knife per- pendicularly, that the spongy interior of the loaf may not be crushed into heaviness. Time.—£ of an hour. Average Cost, 7d. 2411.—A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of dough, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 2 eggs. Mode.—Beat all well together in a basin in the same manner as eggs are beaten, only using the hand instead of the whisk, set in a plain mould to rise for three-quarters of an hour, then bake in a quick oven. When cut, it should have the appearance of honeycomb. This will make good toast when stale. Time.—£ hour to rise, 1 hour to bake. Average Cost-, td.