156 Recipes for Soups. saucepan, thin with sufficient stock, or, if that cannot t>e had, with water and 2 o«. of butter, let it simmer half an hour. Add the seasoning, to which a very little curry-powder is a great improvement, and serve with fried or toasted bread. In summer a few green peas, put in a few minutes before serving are a very pleasant addition. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 9d. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. 313.—MILK SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe au Lait.) (A nice Dish for Children.) Ingredients.—2 quarts of milk, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, or more if liked, 4 thin slices of bread, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.— Boil the milk with the salt, cinnamon, and sugar; lay the bread in a deep dish, pour over it a little of the milk, and keep it hot over a stove, without burning. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add them to the milk, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Do not let it curdle. Pour it upon the bread, and serve. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 8d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 10 children. 314.—ONION SOUP. (Fr.—Potage aux Oignons.) Ingredients.—6 large onions, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, £ pint of milk, 1 quart of stock, No. 274. Mode.—Chop the onions, put them in the butter, stir them occasion- ally, but do not let them brown. Put the stock to them, cook till tender, and season; rub through a sieve, and add the boiling milk. Time.—14 hours. Average Cost, 7 d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 4 persons. 315.—CHEAP ONION SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe a I’Oignon.) Ingredients.—8 middling-sized onions, 3 oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of rice-flour, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, thickening of butter and flour, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut the onions small, put them in the stewpan with the butter, and fry them well; mix the rice-flour smoothly with the water, add the onions, seasoning and sugar, and simmer till tender. Thicken with