695 Hashed Game. the bread in the stock, then place it in a stewpan on the fire, add the butter and the yolk of one egg, and beat it all until of a consistency like thick paste ; add the minced hare and another egg, stir it thoroughly and set it by to cool. Then form the mixture into cones or balls, egg-and- bread-crumb them, and fry of a nice brown colour. Serve with Italian sauce. No. 719. Time.—10 minutes to fry the croquettes. Average Cost, exclusive of the hare, 6d. Seasonable from September to the end of February. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1426.—HASHED GAME. {Fr.~Salmis de Gibier.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold game, 1 onion stuck with 3 cloves, a few whole peppers, 1 strip of lemon-peel, salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour, 1 glass of port, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 table* spoonful of ketchup, 1 pint of water or weak stock. Mode.—Cut the remains of cold game into joints, reserve the best pieces, and the inferior ones and trimmings put into a stewpan with the onion, pepper, lemon-peel, salt, and water or weak stock; stew these for about an hour, and strain the gravy ; thicken it with butter and flour: add the wine, lemon-juice and ketchup; lay in the pieces of game, and let them gradually warm through by the side of the fire ; do not allow it to boil, or the game will be hard. When on the point of sim- mering, serve, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether hour. Seasonable from August to March. Note.—Any kind of game may be hashed by the above recipe, and the flavour may be varied by adding flavoured vinegars, curry-powder, &c. ; but we cannot recommend these latter ingredients, as a dish of game should really taste of game ; and if too many sauces, essences, &c., are added to the gravy, they quite overpower and destroy the flavour the dish should possess. 1427.—HASHED HARE. (Fr.—Salmis de Lievre.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast hare, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 or 3 allspice, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of port, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the cold hare into neat slices, and put the head, bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with three-quarters of a pint of water; add the mace, allspice, seasoning, onion and herbs, and stew for nearly an hour, and strain the gravy; thicken it with butter and flour, add the wine and