252 Recipes for Cooking Fish. cover to it, as it should be excluded from the air, and take away the bone ; boil the liquor and vinegar with the other ingredients for io minutes, and let it stand to get cold ; pour it over the salmon, and in 12 hours this will be fit for the table. Time.—io minutes. To Oure Salmon.—This process consists in splitting the fish, rubbing it with salt, and then put- ting it into pickle in tubs provided for the purpose. Here it is kept for about six weeks, when it is taken out, pressed and packed in casks, with layers of salt. 535. —POTTED SALMON. (Fr.—Terrine de Saumon. Ingredients.—Salmon, pounded mace, cloves and pepper to taste, 2 bay-leaves, £ lb. of butter. Mode.—Skin the salmon, and clean it thoroughly by wiping with a cloth (water would spoil it) ; cut it into square pieces, which rub with salt; let them remain till thoroughly drained, then lay them in a dish with the other ingredients, and bake. When quite done, drain them from the gravy, press into pots for use, and when cold, pour over it clarified butter. Time.—| hour. An Aversion in the Salmon.—The salmon is said to have an aversion to anything red ; hence, fishermen engaged in catching it do not wear jackets or caps of that colour. Pontoppidem also says that it has an abhorrence of carrion, and if any happens to be thrown into the places it haunts it immediately forsakes them. The remedy adopted for this in Norway, is to throw into the poluted water a lighted torch. As food, salmon, when in perfection, is one of the mgst delicious and nutritive of our fish. 536. —MAYONNAISE OF SALMON. (PV.-Saumon en Mayonnaise.) Ingredients.—Remains of cold boiled salmon, 2 large lettuces, a little small salad, a beetroot, 4 hard-boiled eggs, a very small quantity of oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, and £ pint of Mayonnaise sauce (see Sauces). Mode.—Thoroughly wash and dry the lettuces and use the outer leaves, dipped in oil and vinegar, to lay on the dish as foundation. Upon this lay in a circle overlapping one another, small cutlets cut as neatly as possible from the salmon and well masked in the Mayonnaise sauce. In the centre and round these put the remainder of the lettuce and the cress cut up, using first the hearts of the lettuces, cut evenly to alternate with little groups of watercress, beet, and eggs cut up. round the dish, some of the sauce being put on the top of the salad. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fish, is. 2d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons.