Italian Sauce. 327 mushrooms should not be chopped long before they are wanted, as they would then become black. Time.-—£ hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 7d. Sufficient for a small dish. 720.—ITALIAN SAUCE (White). (Fr.—Sauce Italienne.) Ingredients.—£ pint of white stock, No. 278 ; 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped shalots, 1 slice of ham, minced very fine; J pint of bechamel, No. 665; salt to taste, a few drops of garlic vinegar, £ teaspoonful of sugar, a squeeze of lemon- juice. Mode.—Put the shalots and mushrooms into a stewpan with the stock and ham, and simmer very gently for half an hour, when add the becha- mel. Let it just boil up, and then strain it through a tammy; season with the above ingredients, and serve very hot. If this sauce should not have retained a nice white colour, add a little cream. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 10d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Note.—To preserve the colour of the mushrooms after pickling, throw them into water to which a little lemon-juice has been added. 721.—KIDNEY SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Rognons). Ingredients.—2 kidneys, 1 tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt, £ teaspoonful of each, 1 tablespoonful of stock, No, 273 ; i glassful of claret. Mode.—Skin and mince the kidneys into fine dice, shake the flour well over them, place all the other ingredients in a stewpan, and let it boil gently for five minutes. Place the stewpan at the side of the fire, add the kidneys, and stew all gently for ten minutes, being careful not to let it’boil. Pour over roast fowl, or place in a separate tureen and serve. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for 2 fowls. Seasonable at any time. 722.—LEAMINGTON SAUCE. (An Excellent Sauce for Flavouring Gravies, Hashes, Soups, &c.) (Author's Recipe.) Ingredients.—Walnuts. To each quart of walnut-juice allow 3 quarts of vinegar, 1 pint of Indian soy, 1 oz. of cayenne, 2 oz. of shalots, \ oz. of garlic, £ pint of port.