978 General Observations on Preserves, Pickles, &c. Most of the cane-sugar consumed in England is actually produced from the sugar- cane, but of beet-root sugar there is much in the market, and in America sugar is produced from the maple, from maize, and from the “ sugar grass.” From a chemical as well as from a culinary point of view it is all the same. Grape sugar abounds in grapes and in many other fruits, and it may also be manufactured. It does not crystallise as cane sugar does, and is not nearly so sweet, so that admixture of grape with cane sugar is an adulteration greatly to the disadvantage of the purchaser, though in no way unwholesome. 2099. Barley Sugar.—When a strong solution of sugar is allowed to solidify slowly and undisturbed, it deposits large crystals, such as we see in sugar candy : if it is agitated, the crystals are small, as in loaf sugar. But if the solution is heated up to a certain point it does not crystallise any more, but settles into a solid transparent mass which we know as barley sugar, so called because the old confectioners found that its return to the ciystalline condition took place less quickly if it was boiled in barley water instead of water only. Any acid or mucilaginous matter helps forward the production of this particular form of sugar. Caramel is crystallised sugar heated to about 4000 Fahr., when it decomposes, loses its power of crystallising and fermenting, and acquires a dark brown colour and a bitter flavour. It is most common in all sorts of cookery, both sweet and savoury, homely and elaborate. 2100. Syrup for Preserving.—Having secured the most important contributions to the manufacture of preserves, the fruit and the sugar, the next consideration is the preparation of the syrup in which the fruit is to be suspended; and this requires much care. In the confectioner’s art there is a great nicety in proportioning the degree of concentration of the syrup very exactly to each parti- cular case; and they know this by signs, and express it by certain technical terms. But to distinguish these properly requires very great attention and consi- derable experience. The principal thing to be acquainted with is the fact that, in proportion as the syrup is longer boiled, its water will become evaporated, and its consistency will be thicker. Great care must be taken in the management of the fire, that the syrup does not boil over, and that the boiling is not carried to such an extent as to burn the sugar. 2101. The first degree of consistency is called the thread, which is sub-divided into the little and great thread. If you dip the finger into the syrup and apply it to the thumb, the tenacity of the syrup will, on separating the finger and thumb, afford a thread, which shortly breaks : this is the little thread. If the thread, from the greater tenacity, and, consequently, greater strength of the syrup, admits of a greater extension of the finger and thumb, it is called the great thread. There are half a dozen other terms and experiments for testing the various thicknesses of the boiling sugar towards the consistency called caramel; but that degree of sugar-boiling belongs to the confectioner. A solution of sugar prepared by dissolving two parts of double-refined sugar in one of water, and boiling this a little, affords a syrup of the right degree of strength, and which neither ferments nor crystallises. This appears to be the degree called smooth by the confectioners, and is proper to be used for the purposes of preserves. The syrup employed should sometimes be clarified, which is done in the following mannerDissolve 2 lbs. of loaf sugar in a pint of water; add to this solution the white of an egg, and beat it well. Put the preserving-pan upon the fire with the solution ; stir it with a wooden spatula, and, when it begins to swell and boil up, throw in some cold water or a little oil to damp the boiling ; for, as it rises sud- denly, if it should boil over, it would take fire, being of a very inflammable nature. Let it boil up again : then take it off. and remove carefully the scum