1477 Duties of the Housemaid. in the duties of the butler and footman : rules that are good to be observed by them, are equally good for the parlour-maid. If there be a man-servant in attendance, he takes the butler’s place and she the footman's, as already detailed; if the housemaid assists, then the parlour-maid takes the first place. 3272. Evening JVork.—Dinner over, the parlour-maid removes the plates and dishes on the tray, places the dirty knives and forks in the basket prepared for them, folds up the napkins in the rings, which indicate by which member of the family they have been used, brushes off the crumbs on the hand-tray kept for the purpose, folds up the table cloth in the folds already made, and places it in the linen-press to be smoothed out. After every meal the table should be rubbed, all marks from hot plates removed, and the table-cover thrown over, and crumb-brush. the room restored to its usual order. If the family retire to the drawing-room, or any other room, it is a good practice to throw up the sash to admit fresh air and ventilate the room. She will now have to wash up the plate and glass used, restoring everything to its place; next prepare the tea and take it up, bringing the tea-things down when finished with, and lastly, give any attendance required in the bed- rooms. 3273. A still-room maid is kept in some large establishments where there is a full staff of men, and she does some few of the duties of the parlour- maid of smaller households. She washes and puts away the china, for example, from breakfast and tea, prepares the tea-trays for the drawing-room, arranges the dining-room dessert, and sometimes the flowers, and generally waits on and assists the house- keeper. We can more easily define her duties, however, by calling her what she practically is, the housekeeper’s assistant. THE HOUSEMAID. 3274. Upper Housemaids.—In large establishments there are several housemaids, and according to the number kept the actual work of the head housemaid may be determined—being practically little if there be many, while her responsibilities are in inverse ratio. She has not so much to do the work as to see that it is done, reserving the lighter and more important tasks for her own The best upper housemaids are those that have risen to the post, having thus had a good sound training and possessing a practical knowledge of how every household task should be performed. 3275. The ripper housemaid’s duties would include, besides a general superintendence, the care of the household linen, the covering of furniture, the dusting, if not the sweeping, of the drawing-room, the helping to make the chief beds and other tasks, always making it her duty to go the round of the bedrooms,