BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS, TEAS AND SUPPERS. CHAPTER LIX. MEALS. 2975. Of all the necessities of life, there are none that come before the material ones of eating and drinking. Whether we are ill or well, rich or poor, harassed or at ease, hard worked or lazy, it is certain that to live, we must eat and drink. Yet though we are one and all ready to acknowledge this fact, many underrate the importance of how we take our food, and of what it should consist. These are apt to cavil at those who make eating and drinking not only a con- sideration, but a study, although be they inmates of a household where the mistress of the house does devote some portion of her time to considering what is best and most suitable in the way of food and drink for all, they must confess that it is a good thing she looks upon this task as a duty. There ought to be no question in the matter that it is one of her most important duties. Not only the comfort, but the health of the household is dependant upon the way they live, and the responsibility of seeing that meals are suitable to the requirements of those who have to partake of them is one that must not, or ought not to be neglected. 2976. Health fill Meals.—Many are apt to imagine that if they pay for good food and engage a good cook they have done all that is necessary, and we venture to assert that some of these never see what is given to their children ; while the idea of consulting individual tastes in a household never occurs to them. There is plenty, they say, and if people are too dainty to partake of it, they ought to go without, and SO failing appetites become bad ones, so-called dainty children become delicate, harassed, hard-worked men do not take enough to sustain them, and the results are fatal: a little thought, a little trouble taken to gratify individual tastes or stimulate bad appetites might have averted such. A much wider class have not the means to provide good cooks, while some do not buy the best food, and yet, though they do not take any trouble to look after the meals of the household, they still expect their little ones to be healthy, their boys and girls to grow up strong, and their husbands to be always up to work. Higher cares, more ennobling occupations are quoted as excuses for their not busying themselves in looking after the creature comforts of those by whom they are surrounded, and in putting mind before body, education before food, they fall into error. No one can build with success upon a poor foundv