Recipes for Cooking Pork. 560 1222.—TO SCALD A SUCKING-PIG. (Fr.-Cochon au Lait.) Put the pig into cold water directly it is killed; let it remain for a few minutes, then immerse it in a large pan of boiling water for two minutes. Take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as possible. When the skin looks clean, make a slit down the belly, take out the entrails, well clean the nostrils and ears, wash the pig in cold water, and wipe it thorougly dry. Take off the feet at the first joint, and loosen and leave sufficient skin to turn neatly over. Ifnottobe dressed immediately, fold it in a wet cloth, to keep it from the air. The Learned Pig.—That the pig is capable of education is a fact long known to the world; and though, like the ass, naturally stubborn and obstinate, that he is equally amenable, with other animals, to caresses and kindness, has been shown from very remote time ; the best modern evidence of his docility, however, is the instance of the learned pig, first exhibited about a cen- tury since, but which has been continued down to our own time by repeated instances of an animal who will put together all the letters or figures that compose the day, month, hour, and date of the exhibition, besides many other unquestioned evidences of memory. The old anecdote of breaking a sow into a pointer, till she became more staunch even than the dog itself, though sur- prising, is far less wonderful than that evidence of education where so generally obtuse an animal may be taught x.ot only to spell, but couple figures and give dates correctly. 1223.—ROAST SUCKING PIG. (Fr— Cochon au Lait Roti.) Ingredients.—Pig, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, 16 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salad oil or butter to baste with, about ^ pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—A sucking-pig, to be eaten in perfection, should not be more than three weeks old, and should be dressed the same day that it is killed. After preparing the pig for cooking, as in the preceding recipe, stuff it with finely-grated bread-crumbs, minced sage, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter the size of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together, and put into the body of the pig. Sew up the slit neatly, and truss the legs back, to allow the inside to be roasted, and the under part to be crisp. Put the pig down to a bright, clear fire, not too near, and let it lay till thoroughly dry; then have ready some butter tied up in a piece of thin cloth, and rub the pig with this in every part. Keep it well rubbed with the butter the whole of the time it is roasting, and do not allow the crackling to become blistered or burnt. When half-done, hang a pig- iron before the middle part (if this is not obtainable, use a flat-iron), to prevent its being scorched and dried up before the ends are done. Before it is taken from the fire, cut off the head, and part that and the body down the middle. Chop the brains and mix them with the stuffing ; add half a pint of good gravy, a tablespoonful of lemon- juice, and the gravy that flowed from the pig; put a little of this on the dish with the pig, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Place the pig ROAST SUCKING-PIG.