Nesselrode Pudding. 857 to a stiff froth; sprinkle over pounded sugar, and put them into the oven for a minute or two, to dry the egg; dish the pies on a white d’oyley, and serve hot. They may be merely sprinkled with powdered sugar instead of being glazed, when that mode is preferred. To re-warm them, put the pies on the patty-pans, and let them remain in the oven for 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour, and they will be almost as good as if freshly made. Time.—25 to 30 minutes; 10 minutes to re-warm them. Average Cost, 4d. each. Sufficient.—J lb. of paste for 4 pies. Seasonable at Christmas time. 1822.—MONDAY’S PUDDING. Ingredients.—The remains of cold plum-pudding, brandy, custard made with 4 eggs to every pint of milk. Mode.—Cut the remains of good cold plum-pudding into finger-pieces, soak them in a little brandy, and lay them cross-barred in a mould until full. Make a custard with the above proportion of milk and eggs, flavour- ing it with nutmeg or lemon-rind ; fill up the mould with it; tie it down with a cloth, and boil or steam it for an hour. Serve with a little of the custard poured over, to which has been added a tabiespoonful of brandy. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the pudding, 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1823.—MUFFIN PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 muffins, 1^- pint of milk, 2 eggs, rind of 1 lemon, sugar to taste. Mode.—Pour the milk over the muffins, and leave to soak until quite soft. Beat the eggs, add the lemon-rind and sugar to taste, then mix thoroughly with the muffins and milk. Butter a pie-dish thickly, pour in the mixture, and bake 1 hour in a quick oven. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1824.—NESSELRODE PUDDING. {A fashionable iced pudding—Car erne's Recipe.) Ingredients.—40 chestnuts, 1 lb. of sugar, flavouring of vanilla, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 glass of Maraschino, 1 ounce of citron, 2 oz. of preserved cherries, 2 oz. of stoned raisins, £ pint of whipped cream, 3 eggs.