268 Recipes for Cooking Fish. some pieces of paper in the oil, wrap round the fish and broil. Serve with anchovy sauce. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Seasonable from February to September. Sufficient for 6 persons. 572.—BOILED TURBOT. (Fr.—Turbot Bouilli.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Choose a thick, middling-sized turbot; for they are invariably the most valuable : if very large, the meat will be tough and thready. Three or four hours before dressing, soak the fish in salt and water to take off the slime ; then thoroughly cleanse it, and with a knife make an incision down the middle of the back, to prevent the skin of the belly from cracking. Rub it over with lemon, and be particular not to cut off the fins. Lay the fish in a very clean turbot-kettle with sufficient warm water to cover it, and salt in the above proportion. Let it gradually come to a boi-l, and skim very carefully ; keep it gently simmering at the side of the fire, and on no account let it boil fast, as the fish would have a very unsightly appearance. When the meat separates easily from the bone, it is done; then take it out, let it drain well, and dish it on a hot napkin. Rub a little lobster spawn or coral through a sieve on to the fish, and garnish with tufts of parsley and cut lemon. Lobster or shrimp sauce and plain melted butter, should be sent to table with it. Time.— After the water boils, about £ hour for a large turbot; middling- size, about 20 minutes. Average Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 21s., according to size. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, 1 middling-sized turbot for 8 persons. Note.—An amusing anecdote is related by Miss Edgeworth of a bishop, who descending to his kitchen to superintend the dressing of a turbot, and discovering that his cook had stupidly cut off the fins, immediately commenced sewing them on again with his own episcopal fingers. This dignitary knew the value of a turbot’s gelatinous appendages. 573 -GARNISH FOR TURBOT, or other Large Fish. {Fr.—Garnitures pour Poissons.) Take the crumb of a stale loaf, cut it into small pyramids with flattops, and on the top of each pyramid put rather more than a tablespoonful of white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Over this, sprinkle finely chopped parsley and fine raspings of a dark colour. Arrange these on the napkin round the fish, one green and one brown alternately.