1284 General Observations on German Cookery. to appearances as our breakfast. The cloth is often laid without either plates or knives and forks, a bread tray full of hot rolls, and the steaming coffee-pot and jug of milk, with a sugar box—literally a box, either in silver or japanned—form- ing all its decoration. To this meal the family seldom sit down together, each member partaking of it as he or she makes his or her first appearance. About ten o’clock there is a sort of snatch repast; in the summer consisting frequently of fruit only, in the winter of cakes or sweetmeats. Then comes the equivalent of our luncheon, or early dinner, either at twelve or one o’clock, called the midday meal or mittagessen. This is the heaviest meal of the day, and consists in the ordinary every-day course of soup, bouilli flanked with all kinds of good pickles and sauces made at home, a roast of some kind, two vegetables and a sweet. Next follows the four o'clock coffee, at which uninvited guests constantly tumble in; hence, perhaps, its familiar term caffecklatsclie, or coffee gossip. At this meal substantial cakes are generally in abundance, and here let me note a difference between Germans and ourselves. 2919. German Cakes.—In these days Englishwomen who do not employ professed cooks ofien buy their cakes, not to mention pastry, at the pastry- cook's or grocer’s. In Germany, every household makes, or can make, its own plain cakes and rich cakes, bread tarts and foam tarts—the foam being a com- bination of white of egg and sifted sugar—as well as open tarts, not made with preserve as ours are, but of the lightest dough rolled out and cut into long or round shapes and thickly overlaid with fresh fruit, sprinkled with sugar and currants, none of the juice 6f the fruit being lost, but permeating the crust and making it most appetising. 2920. Supper.—Half-past seven or eight is the hour of supper, or nachtessen, served hot or cold according to the season of the year. In the summer-time in Southern Germany it often consists of so-called “ thick milk ” only. The milk is taken fresh from the cow, and, being placed in large stone jars, carried to the cellar. Here it is carefully watched day by day, say for three or four days, and then taken forth quite solid. The mass of cream, often two inches thick, is removed from the top of the jar, placed in a tureen, made quite smooth with a wooden spoon, then the milk broken up and added spoonful by spoonful until the whole is perfectly smooth. This is served up with grated bread-crumbs, powdered sugar and cinnamon, and is really most delicious. In winter the suppers are heavier ; often hot soup, wurst of course, varying from the ordinary pork sausage, to every kind of delicate brawn, galantine, liver pate, and tiny sausage, made for the most part at home. 2921. Late dinners are not eustomary in the Fatherland, that is to say invitations are issued for a supper, but there is in reality very little difference either in the hour or arrangements of the table. Frequently, however—a fact which would shock many an English mind—tea and cakes make the first course, with cold viands, upon which follow varieties of hot entrees and sweets, and this in the very highest circles also. With regard to the table arrangements, there is but little difference between the two countries, the supper-table being laid out very much as our own dinner- tables are, decorated with flowers and shining glass and plate. In the matter of carving we do not resemble the Germans. In the Fatherland, either en fanrille or at small parties, the master of the house cuts up the whole of the joint that is set before him, upon which it is handed round the table. Poultry, too, is dissected in the same way and handed round, and it is a common thing for the daughters of the house to wait on the guests at one side of the table, whilst the parlour-maid