962 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Seasonable at any time. Mode.—Soak the spongecakes, which should be stale (on this account they should be cheaper), in a little raisin wine; arrange them on a deep glass dish in four layers, putting a layer of jam upon each, and pour round them a pint of custard, made by recipe No. 1966, decorating the top with cut preserved fruit. Time.—2 hours to soak the cakes. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable at any time. 2055.—TO MAKE A TRIFLE. Ingredients.—For the whip, 1 pint of cream, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, the whites of 2 eggs, a small glass of sherry or raisin wine. For the trifle, 1 pint of custard, made with 8 eggs to a pint of milk ; 6 small sponge- cakes, or 6 slices of spongecake ; 12 macaroons, 2 dozen ratafias, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, the grated rind of 1 lemon, a layer of raspberry or straw- berry jam, ^ pint of sherry or sweet wine, 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—The whip to lay over the top of the trifle should be made the day before it is required for table, as the flavour is better, and it is much more solid than when prepared the same day. Put into a large bowl the pounded sugar, the whites of the eggs, which should be beaten to a stiff froth, a glass of sherry or sweet wine, and the cream. Whisk these ingredients well in a cool place, and take off the froth with a skimmer as fast as it rises, and put it on a sieve to drain ; continue the whisking till there is sufficient of the whip, which must be put away in a cool place to drain. The next day, place the sponge-cakes, macaroons, and ratafias in layers in a trifle-dish ; pour over them half a pint of sherry or sweet wine, mixed with 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy, and should this proportion of wine not be found quite sufficient, add a little more, as the cakes should be well soaked. Over the cakes put the grated lemon-rind, the sweet almonds, blanched and cut into strips, and a layer of raspberry or strawberry jam. Make a good custard by recipe No. 1969, using 8 in- stead of 5 eggs to the pint of milk, and let this cool a little ; then pour it over the cakes, &c. The whip being made the day previously, and the trifle prepared, there remains nothing to do now but to heap the whip lightly over the top ; this should stand as high as possible, and it may be garnished with strips of bright currant jelly, crystallised sweetmeats or flowers ; the small coloured comfits are sometimes used for the purpose of garnishing a trifle, but they are now considered rather old-fashioned. Average Cost, 55. Sufficient for one trifle. TRIFLE.