Sirloin of Beef. 413 the skewers, put in a plated or silver one, and send the joint to table with gravy in the dish, and garnish with tufts of horseradish. Horseradish sauce, No. 717, is a great improvement to roast beef. Time.—For 10 lbs. of the rolled ribs, 3 hours (as the joint is very solid, we have allowed an extra £ hour) for 6 lbs., i£ hour. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs., for 12 persons. Seasonable all the year. Note.—When the weight exceeds io lbs., we would not advise the above method of boning and rolling ; only in the case of i or 2 ribs, when the joint cannot stand upright in the dish, and would look awkward. The bones should be put on with a few vegetables and herbs, and made into stock. Roast Beef has long been a national dish in England. In most of our patriotic songs it is contrasted with the fricasseed frogs, popularly supposed to be the exclusive diet of Frenchmen. “ O the roast beef of old England, And O the old English roast beef.” This national chorus is appealed to whenever a song-writer wishes to account for the valour displayed by Englishmen at sea or on land. 923.—SEA PIE. Ingredients.—I lb. of gravy beef, 3 lbs. of potatoes, 1 onion, pepper, salt, flour, £ lb. of suet crust. Mode.—Wash and peel the potatoes, then put them into clean cold water until wanted. Line a large dish with the suet-crust, then cut the beef into small pieces, lay it in the dish, add the sliced onion, salt and pepper, and dredge some flour over it. Fill up the dish with the potatoes, pour in half a pint of water, then put on the top crust, tie the dish in a cloth and plunge into a saucepan filled with boiling water. Let it boil very gently for 2 hours. This is a very nourishing dish when well cooked. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 924.-ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF. (Fr.—Aloyau de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode.—As a joint cannot be well roasted without a good fire, see that it is well made up about three-quarters of an hour before it is required, so that when the joint is put down, it is clear and bright. Choose a nice sirloin, the weight of which should not exceed 16 lbs., as the outside would be too much done, whilst the inside would not be done enough. Spit it or hook it on the jack firmly, dredge it slightly with flour, and place it near the fire at first, as directed in the preceding recipe. Then P