Barberry Tart. 821 and with all who have partaken of it, it is an especial favourite. Nothing is of greater consequence, in the above directions, than attention to the time of boil- ing, which should never be less than that mentioned. 1724.—BARBERRY TART. Ingredients.—To every lb. of barberries allow £ lb. of lump sugar; paste. Mode.—Pick the barberries from the stalks, and put the fruit into a stone jar ; place this jar in boiling water, and let it simmer very slowly until the fruit is soft; then put it into a pre- serving-pan with the sugar and boil gently for 15 minutes; line a tai'tlet-pan with paste, bake it, and, when the paste is cold, fill with the bar- berries and ornament the tart with a few baked leaves of paste, cut out as shown in the engraving. Time.—£ hour to bake the tart. Average Cost, 4d. per pint. Seasonable in autumn. Barberries (Berberris Vulgaris).—A fruit of such great acidity that even birds refuse to eat it. In this respect, it nearly approaches the tam- arind. When boiled with sugar, it makes a very agreeable preserve or jelly, according to the different modes of preparing it. Barberries are abo used as a dry sweetmeat and in sugar-plums or comfits; are pickled with vinegar and are used for various culinary purposes. They are wtll calculated to allay heat and thirst in persons afflicted with fevers. The berries arranged on bunches of nice curled parsley make an exceedingly pretty garnish for supper dishes, particularly for white meats, like boiled fowl a la bechamel, the three colours, scarlet, green and white, contrasting so well and producing a very good effect LEAF IN FUFF-PASTE. 1725.—BAKED BATTER PUDDING. Ingredients.—H pint of milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, a little salt. Mode.—Mix the flour with a small quantity of cold mj'k; make the remainder hot and pour it on to the flour, keeping the mixture well stirred; add the butter, eggs and salt; beat the whole well and put the pudding into a buttered pie dish ; bake for three-quarters of an hour and serve with sweet sauce, wine sauce or stewed fruit. Baked in small cups, this makes very pretty little puddings and should be eaten with the same accompaniments as above. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2 B