1590 The Doctor. tion is disturbed at these points, the veins become tdo full all OVef tho body; now the hepatic vein shares in this fulness, and so the liver is stuffed with blood, and the stream flows through sluggishly. From a similar cause the veins in the leg and kidney are full, and so there results dropsy of the lower extremities and a scanty flow of urine, which will contain a variable amount of albumen. There will be pain over the liver, but not of marked intensity, and, frequently, there is some yellowness of skin from the presence of jaundice. After a time dropsy of the abdominal cavity will come on, and then a fatal result follows. Since this state of liver depends upon the disease of the ! heart or lungs, the treatment must be directed to allaying any tumultuous or irregular action of the heart and removing any dropsy by purgatives or small punctures in the leg; then by diminishing the quantity of fluid in the circulation, relief may be temporarily given. Syphilis will produce various changes in the liver, and cause a hardening of that organ and thickening of the capsule. Sometimes rounded masses, some- thing resembling cancer, are met with in that organ. The health, in such cases, must be improved by a visit to the seaside, if possible, or a sea voyage, by liberal diet and regularity of living. Preparations containing iron and quinine are valuable, and may be given in conjunction with iodide of potassium. Hydatid cysts occur more commonly in the liver than in any other organ, although they are by no means very often met with. They may occur in the liver either as small, round and firm tumours, formed of a fibrous capsule, with putty-like contents ; these are hydatid cysts which have undergone spontaneous cure, and can do no more harm ; or as cysts with a tough, fibrous capsule, enclosing much fluid, and a greater or less number of smaller cysts floating about. These cysts may attain a great size ; they are seldom attended with pain, unless there is inflammation outside setting up adhesions. The general health is seldom affected, so that the nature of the disease is chiefly recognised by the presence of a tumour in the liver and the absence of any constitutional symptoms. The treatment will consist in having resort to surgical aid, whereby the contents may be evacuated and the cyst allowed to shrink. If allowed to grow, such cysts may cause death by bursting into the abdominal cavity, or into some neighbouring organ. 3562. Lumbago.—This is a form of chronic rheumatism affecting the lower part of the back and loins. The individual moves stiffly and has pain in getting up from the sitting posture or in turning over in bed at nights. Treatment.—The application of a menthol plaster often gives relief, so does ether sprayed upon the part. Should it be impossible to apply either of these remedies, hot baths will be found useful and wrapping the part up in flannel. 3563. Meningitis {Cerebral). —By this is meant inflammation of the membranes covering the bra:n. It is always serious. Symptoms.—In children there is disturbed sleep, a cast or rolling of the eyes, dilated pupils, convulsions. With older persons, who can tell their symptoms, there is severe headache, intolerance of light, want of sleep, mental disquietude, sometimes unnaturally acute hearing ; constipation ; sometimes sudden loss of speech and delirium. Treatment.—Keep the patient in a darkened room ; apply cold to the head by means of cloths wrung out of cold water ; send at once for the doctor ; purgatives are generally required to combat the constipation; the greatest quiet must be maintained. Milk is the best food. 3564. Meningitis (Tubercular).—This disease is associated with a scrofulous constitution, and occurs in children of different ages up to twelve or