194 Recipes for Soups. bag in the head. Put it in a stewpan, with the crumb of the roll, anchovies, onions, herbs, lemon-peel, and the water; simmer gently till all the goodness is extracted, and strain it off. Pound the spawn in a mortar, with the butter, nutmeg and flour, and mix with it the cream and milk. Give one boil up, at the same time adding the tails cut in pieces. Make the forcemeat balls with the remainder of the lobster, seasoned with mace, pepper and salt, adding a little flour, and a few bread-crumbs; moisten them with the egg, heat them in the soup, and serve. Tinned lobster can be used. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. per quart. Seasonable from April till October. Sufficient for 8 persons. 397 —OYSTER SOUP. (Fr.—Potage aux Huitres a la Creme.) Ingredients.—6 dozen oysters, 2 quarts of white stock, \ pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, oz. of flour ; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor; take them out, beard them, and put them in a tureen. Take a pint of the stock, put in the beards and the liquor, which must be carefully strained, and simmer for half an hour. Take it off the fire, strain it again, and add the remainder of the stock with the seasoning and mace. Bring it to a boil, add the thickening of butter and flour, simmer for 5 minutes, stir in the boiling cream, pour it over the oysters, and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 4s. 6d. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup can be made less rich by using milk instead of cream, and thickening with arrowroot instead of butter and flour. 398.—OYSTER SOUP. (Fr— Potage aux Huitres.) (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.—2 quarts of good fish stock, 6 dozen oysters, 2 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, juice of £ a lemon. Mode.—Beard the oysters, and scald them in their own liquor; then add it, well strained, to the stock; thicken with the butter and flour, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put in the oysters, stir well, but do not let it boil; add the lemon juice, and serve very hot. Tinned oysters might be used. Time.—f of an hour. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. per quart, or with tinned oysters, is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 8 persons.