607 Stewed Duck. 1293.-STEWED DUCK AND PEAS. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast duck, £ pint of good gravy, cayenne and salt to taste, £ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 teaspoon- ful of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of butter rolled in flour ; pint of green peas. Mode.—Cut up the duck into joints, lay it in the gravy, and add a sea- soning of cayenne, salt and minced lemon-peel; let this gradually warm through, but not boil. Throw the peas into boiling water, slightly salted, and boil them rapidly until tender. Drain them, stir in the pounded sugar and the butter rolled in flour ; shake them over the fire for two or three minutes, and serve them in the centre of the dish, with the duck laid round. Time.—15 minutes to boil the peas, when they are full grown. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold duck, is. 2d. Seasonable from June to August. Fattening Ducks.—Many duck-keepers give their birds nothing in the shape of food, letting them wander about and pick up a living for themselves; and they will seem to get fat even upon this precarious feeding. Unless, however, ducks are supplied with, besides chance food, a liberal feed of solid corn, or grain, morning and evening, their flesh will become flabby and in- sipid, The simple way to fatten ducks is to let them have as match substantial food as they will eat, bruised oats and pea-meal being the standard fattening food for them. No cramming is required, as with the turkey and some other poultry; they will cram themselves to the very verge of suffocation. At the same time, plenty ot exercise and clean water should be at their service. American Mode of Capturing Ducks.—On the American rivers, the modes of capture are various. Sometimes half a dozen artificial birds are fastened to a little raft, and which is so weighted that the sham birds squat naturally on the water. This is quite sufficient to attract the notice of a passing flock, who descend to cultivate the acquaintance of the isolated few, when the concealed hunter, with his fowling-piece, scatters a deadly leaden shower amongst them. In the winter, when the water is covered with rubble ice, the fowler of the Delaware paints his canoe entirely white, lies flat in the bottom of it, and floats with the broken ice, from which the aquatic inhabitants fail to distinguish it. So floats the canoe till he within it understands, by the quack- ing, and fluttering, and whirring of wings, that he is in the midst of a flock, when he is up in a moment with the murderous piece, and dying quacks and lamentations rend the still air. Bow-Bill Ducks, &c — Everyone knows how awkward are the Anatidce, waddling along on theii unelastic webbed toes, and their short legs, which, being placed considerably backward, make the fore part of the body preponderate. Some, how- ever, are formed more adapted to terrestrial habits than others, and notably amongst these may be named Dendronessa sponsa, the summer duck of America. This beautiful bird rears her young in the holes of trees, generally overhanging the water. When strong enough, the young scramble to the mouth of the hole, launch into the air with their little wings and feet spread out, and drop into their favourite element. Whenever their birthplace is at some distance from the water, the mother carries them to it, one by one, in her bill, holding them so as not to injure their yet tender frame. On several occasions, however, when the hole was thirty, forty, or more yards from a piece of water, Audubon ob- served that the mother suffered the young to fall on the grass and dry leaves beneath the tree, and after- wards led them directly to the nearest edge of the the next pool or creek. There are some curious varieties of the domestic duck, which only appear interesting from their singularity, for there does not seem to be anything of use or value in the unusual charateristics which distinguish