Fried Plaice. 247 523.-BOILED PIKE. (Fr.—Brochet.) Ingredients.—\ of lb. of salt to each gallon of water ; a little vinegar. Mode.—Scale and clean the pike, and fasten the tail in its mouth by means of a skewer. Lay it in cold water, and when it boils, throw in the salt and vinegar. The time for boiling depends, of course, on the size of the fish; but a middling-sized pike will take about half an hour. Serve with Dutch or anchovy sauce and plain melted butter. Time.—According to size, ^ to 1 hour. Average Cost, 3d. to 6d. per lb. Seasonable from September to February. The Pike.—This fish is, on account of its voracity, termed the fresh-water 9hark, and is abun- dant in most of the European lakes, especially those of the Northern parts. It grows to an im- mense size, some attaining to the measure of eight feet in Lapland and Russia. The smaller lakes of this country and Ireland, vary in the kinds of fish they produce ; some producing trout, others pike, and so on. Where these happen to be to- gether, however, the trout soon becemes extinct. “ Within a short distance ot Castlebar,” says a writer on sports, “ there is a small bog-lake called Derreens. Ten years ago it was celebrated for its numer- ous good-sized trouts. Accidentally pike effected a passage into the lake from the Minola river, and now the trouts are ex- tinct, or, at least, none of them are caught or seen. Previous to the intrusion of the pikes, half-a-dozen trouts would be killed in an evening in the Derreens, whose collective weight often amounted to twenty pounds.” As an eating fish, the pike is in general dry. 524.—FRIED PLAICE. (Fr.—Plie Frite.) Ingredients.—Hot lard, or clarified dripping; egg and bread-crumbs. Mode.—This fish is fried in the same manner as soles. Wash and wipe them thoroughly dry, and let them remain in a cloth until it is time to dress them. Brush them over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs mixed with a little flour. Fry of a nice brown in hot dripping or lard, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Send them to table with shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. They are often cut in pieces or filleted. Instead of the egg and bread-crumbs a thick batter of flour and water can be used, but they should then be dropped into enough fat or oil to cover them. This is the means employed in the fried fish shops. Time.—About 5 minutes. Average Cost, from 6d. to is. 6d. each. Seasonable from May to November. Sufficient, 1 plaice for 4 persons. Note.—Plaice may be boiled plain and seived with melted butter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. 525.—STEWED PLAICE. F>.-(Plie k la Poulette.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 plaice, 2 onions, £ oz. ground ginger, 4 pint of lemon-iuice, J pint water, 6 eggs, cayenne to taste.