Orange Marmalade. ioo} 2 L Mode,—Weigh the sugar and oranges, score the skin across, and take it off in quarters. Boil these quarters in a muslin bag in water until they are quite soft, and they can be pierced easily with the head of a pin; then cut them into chips about i inch long, and as thiu as possible. Should there be a great deal of white stringy pulp, remove it before cutting the rind into chips. Split open the oranges, scrape out the best part of the pulp, with the juice, rejecting the white pith and pips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water; boil it until clear; then put in the chips, pulp, and juice, and boil the marmalade from 20 minutes to £ an hour, removing all the scum as it rises. In boiling the syrup, clear it carefully from the scum before the oranges are added to it. Time.—2 hours to boil the rinds, 10 minutes the syrup, 20 minutes to $ hour the marmalade. Average Cost, 6d. to M. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in March or April, when Seville oranges are in perfection. Orange and Cloves.—It appears to have been the custom formerly in England to make new year’s presents with oranges stuck full with cloves. We read in one of Ben Jonson's pieces, the “Christmas Masque," “He has an orange and rosemary, but not a clove to stick in it.” 2178-AN EASY WAY OF MAKING ORANGE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of pulp allow i| lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Choose some fine large oranges ; put them whole into a stew- pan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew them until they become perfectly tender, changing the water 2 or 3 times ; drain them, take off the rind, remove the pips from the pulp, weigh it, and to every pound allow lb. of loaf sugar and half a pint of the water the oranges were last boiled in. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes ; put in the pulp, boil for another 10 minutes ; then add the peel cut into strips, and boil the marmalade for another 10 minutes, which completes the process. Pour it into jars; let it cool; then cover down with bladders, or tissue paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Time.—2 hours to boil the oranges ; altogether £ hour to boil the marmalade. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in March 01 April. 2179.—MARMALADE (HOGARTH'S RECIPE). Ingredients.—To every lb. of Seville oranges, weighed before boiling, add 2 lbs. of sugar, | pint of water. Mode.—Carefully wipe the oranges and weigh them ; boil them slowly in as much water as will float them ; as soon as the rinds can be easily pierced with the head of a pin take them out and drain them. Halve and quarter them : remove with a silver spoon all the pulp and pips, and slice