312 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 679—MELTED BUTTER MADE WITH MILK. Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz. of butter, £ pint of milk, a few grains of salt. Mode.—Mix the butter and flour smoothly in alined saucepan over the fire, and pour in the milk. Keep stirring it with a wooden spoon over a sharp fire; let it boil quickly for a minute or two, and it is ready to serve. This is a very good foundation for onion, lobster, or oyster sauce ; using milk instead of water makes it look so much whiter and more delicate. Time.—Altogether, 10 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3d. 680.—SAUCE FOR CALF’S HEAD. Ingredients.—2 small onions, 1 carrot, 1 bay-leaf, £ a lemon, 1 table- spoonful of flour, parsley, 2 oz. butter, 1 lump of sugar, 1 glass white wine, cayenne, salt, ^ pint stock, No. 274. Mode.—Slice the onions and brown them slightly in butter, slice the carrot thinly, add the flour, chopped parsley, lemon-peel and juice, the bay-leaf, some white pepper and salt. Simmer for half an hour, then strain through a coarse sieve. Put into the pan again, add a glass of any white wine, the rest of the butter, sugar, cayenne, and more lemon-juice if required. As soon as it is thoroughly heated remove from the fire and serve. Time.—35 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. Seasonable at any time. 681. —CAPER SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Capres.) (For Boiled Mutton.) Ingredients.—£ pint of melted butter, No. 676, 3 tablespoonfuls of capers or nasturtiums, 1 tablespoonful of their liquor. Mode.—Chop the capers twice or thrice, and add them, with their liquor, to half a pint of melted butter, made very smoothly; keep stirring well, let the sauce just simmer, and serve in a tureen. Pickled nasturtium-pods are fine-flavoured, and by many are eaten in preference to capers. They make an excellent sauce. Time.—2 minutes to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, 6d. Sufficient to serve with a leg of mutton. 682. —CAPER SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Capres.) (For Fish.) Ingredients.—\ pint of melted butter, No. 676; 3 dessertspoonfuls of capers, 1 dessertspoonful of their liquor, a small piece of glaze, if at hand (this may be dispensed with), ^ teaspoonful of salt, ditto of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of anchovy essence.