Carp. 211 Then flour it well, and fry, also the roe, till a nice bright brown. N.B.— It is one that requires care to keep it a good colour and firm. Serve garnished with fried parsley. Average Cost.—is. 6d. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. 433.—BAKED CARP. (Fr —Carpe Farcie.) Ingredients.—1 carp, forcemeat, bread-crumbs, oz. butter, £ pint of stock, No. 273, £ pint port wine, 6 anchovies, 2 onions sliced, 1 bay leaf, a fagot of sweet herbs, flour to thicken, the juice of 1 lemon; cayenne and salt to taste ; £ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Stuff the carp with a delicate forcemeat, after thoroughly cleansing it, and sew it up, to prevent the stuffing from falling out. Rub it over with an egg, and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, lay it in a deep earthen dish, and drop the butter, oiled, over the bread-crumbs Add the stock, onions, bay leaf, herbs, wine and anchovies, and bake for 1 hour. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, and dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up ; put in the strained liquor from the carp, stir frequently, and when it has boiled, add the lemon-juice and seasoning. Serve the carp on a dish garnished with parsley and cut lemon, and the sauce in a. boat. Some cooks add the anchovies to the forcemeat. Time.—1£ hour. Average Cost., 2s. id. Seasonable from November to March. The Carp.—This species of fish inhabits the fresh waters, where they feed on worms, insects, aquatic plants, small fish, clay, or mould. Some of them are migratory. They have very small mouths, and no teeth, and the gill-mem- brane has three rays. The body is smooth, and generally whitish. The carp both grows and increases very fast, and is accounted the most valuable of all fish for the stocking of ponds. It has been pronounced the queen of river-fish, and was first introduced to this country about three hun- dred years ago. Of its sound, or air-bladder, a kind of glue is made, and a green paint of its gall. The French employ the carp for table very much more than we in this country. Its quality depends very much upon its habitat. In stag- nant water it tastes strongly of mud. Sufficient for 2 persons. THE CARP. 434.—STEWED CARP (Fr— Carpe au Vin Rouge.) Ingredients.—1 carp, salt, stock No. 274, 2 onions, 6 cloves, 12 pepper- corns, 1 blade of mace, % pint of port wine, the juice of half lemon, cayenne and salt to taste, a fagot of savoury herbs. Mode.—Scale the fish, clean it nicely, and, if very large, divide it; lay it in the stewpan, alter having rubbed a little salt on it, and put in suffi- cient stock to cover it; add the herbs, onions and spices, and stew