Entrees, Carving. 121 which we have tried to obviate by having the recipes simply and clearly written out, and only care is needed to succeed in making any one of them ; though, at the same time, we must allow that they do require more patience than other cooking as a rule. 248. Preparation of Entrees.—Ordinary cooks, excellent at frying, roasting, soup-making, &c., often fight shy of attempting an entree which is at all elaborate. We therefore venture to suggest that mistresses who do not keep pro- fessed cooks should make themselves au fait at preparing them, so that they may instruct others how to do so. It is the delicacy of flavouring and the careful preparation that render these small dishes so appetising and so popular, and we consider them one of the most interesting branches of the art of cooking. Another reason why they deserve so much consideration is that they are often the means of using up remnants of game, poultry, &c., which, eaten cold, would be tasteless and insipid, but which may form the foundation of many a dainty dish, preferred by many to more solid food. We may suggest to our readers that when the entree is made from fresh meat it should be cooked so as to retain its proper flavour, however much the sauce with which it is served may add to or improve it. Do not take all the goodness out of the meat, and be careful in cooking any vegetable to be used with it; also with the sauce, which, in many cases, may be called the main part. We have a very long list of sauces, in which are many recommended for entrees. Most of them need care in both flavouring and preparation ; but given these, they are excellent. 249. Serving Entrees.—In sending these dishes to table it is well to have them as nicely arranged as possible. In the case of cold ones, much can be done in the way of decorations, but in hot ones there is room for a certain amount of it, and even a simple dish of cutlets can be made to look neat and pretty or the reverse. They ought to be served on silver, and there are none better than the ordinary cover dishes so generally used ; but if silver is not obtainable then, whatever dishes they be, let them be deep enough to hold the sauce which is the usual accompaniment of entrees. CARVING. 250. Ignorance of Carving.—That this should be a so much neglected art seems strange ; but the fact remains,that it is so. In ordinary private life the number of people who really carve quickly, easily, and well is such a small one that a man or woman who can do this is as much known and noted for his or her skill as others are for their excellence in playing or singing ; yet one has taken a mere fraction of time to acquire compared with the other, has been no expense where the other has perhaps cost a large sum, and requires only ordinary intelligence instead of talent. We may very likely be condemned for putting carving on a level with music, but those who find fault must allow that only one is necessary in everyday life; and whereas it has been said that there are too many musicians, we have never yet heard the opinion expressed that there were too many carvers. To make a more humble comparison, we venture to assert that there are many more people who can cook a chicken than who can properly cut it up. Take domestics for example; how many plain cooks or general servants can roast a bird, but how few could carve it properly. But putting them aside, as they as a rule do not have to do it, if we look round, how many masters and mistresses do we see utterly incapable in this respect.