786 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 1642. —BOILED TURNIPS. (Fr.—Navets au Naturel.) Ingredients.—Turnips; to each £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Pare the turnips, and, should they be very large, divide them into quarters ; but unless this is the case, let them be cooked whole. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion, and let them boil gently until tender. Try them with a fork, and, when done, take them up in a colander ; let them thoroughly drain, and serve. Boiled turnips are usually sent to table with boiled mutton, but are infinitely nicer when mashed than served whole : unless nice and young, they are scarcely worth the trouble of dressing plainly as above. Time.—Old turnips, \ to hour ; young ones, about 18 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. per bunch. Sufficient.—Allow a bunch of 12 turnips for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—May be had all the year; but in spring only useful for flavouring gravies, &c. The Turnip.—This vegetable is the Brassica Rapa ot science, and grows wild in England, but cannot be brought exactly to resemble what it becomes in a cultivated state. It is said to have been originally introduced from Hanover, and forms an excellent culinary vegetable, much used all over Europe, where it is either eaten alone or mashed and cooked in soups and stews. They do not thrive in a hot climate; for in India they, and many more of our garden vegetables, lose their flavour and become comparatively taste’ess. The Swede is the largest variety, but it is too coarse for the table. 1643. —MASHED TURNIPS. (Fr.—Pur6e de Navets.) Ingredients.—10 or 12 large turnips ; to each £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, 2 oz. of butter, cayenne or white pepper to taste. Mode.—Pare the turnips, quarter them, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion ; boil them until tender: then drain them in a colander, and squeeze them as dry as possible by pressing them with the back of a large plate. When quite free from water, rub the turnips with a wooden spoon through the colander, and put them into a very clean saucepan; add the butter, white pepper, or cayenne, and, if necessary a little salt. Keep stirring them over a fire until the butter is well mixed with them, and the turnips are thoroughly hot; dish and serve. A little cream or milk added after the turnips are pressed through the colander, is an improvement to both the colour and flavour of this vegetable. Time.—From | to f hour to boil the turnips; 10 minutes to warm them through. Average Cost, 4d. per bunch.