1642 Legal Memoranda. 3734. Executors.—The death of a testator immediately vests all the pro- perty of the testator in the executor. It is his duty, if informed of the death, to arrange for the funeral and to make necessary arrangements for the safe keeping and maintenance of the property. If he be not informed of the death, the nearest relative or any other person is entitled to act in his stead until he in- tervenes, but if he renounces the office such person becomes responsible. Two or more executors have equal authority and responsibility. The executor must obtain probate, some time not earlier than seven days after the death nor later than six months after. Penalty for neglect, £100. The ex- ecutor is entitled to possession of the will, which he must deliver at the registry, and a copy of it is issued, which is called the probate. It is desirable to obtain probate within fourteen days after the death. The executor’s first duty is to realise the estate. The payments out of the estate have priority in the following ordinary course, unless there be something very specially otherwise:— As a general rule, no one of the preceding items must be paid until all the preceding ones are satisfied. If this rule be not adhered to, and any item be paid too soon, and the estate prove insufficient to proceed further, the executor will be liable out of his own pocket to the parties included in the earlier item. Specific legacies, as a piano or £100, must go for debts if necessary, but they must be satisfied before satisfying general legacies, or disposing of the residue. 3735. Intestacy.—When a person dies without first making a will, the nearest relative, or, in his absence, any person at hand, is entitled to aet tem- porarily as if he were the executor. If he do so, he may be superseded by one having a nearer claim of relationship, or he may be compelled to continue the administration of the property, as he must if no one else will. The administrator is entitled to letters of administration not earlier than fourteen days after the death, and he must obtain them within six months ; and it is not safe to do much with reference to the property until they are obtained, the penalty for neglect being £100. On application for the letters, the administrator must be prepared to give a bond, with two sureties, to the satisfaction of the registrar, binding the ad- ministrator to administer the estate according to law. The amount named in the bond may be fixed at double the estimated value of the estate, but may be made less at the discretion of the registrar, according to the circumstances of the estate. Payments must be made in the same order as under a will; but the subsequent disposal of the property must be according to law. If there are near relatives the decision is usually easy. If the deceased was a married woman the whole of her personal property goes to her husband, who need not take out letters of administration, and her landed property (if any) is his for life as tenant by the courtesy, if there are children of the marriage. If the deceased was a married man leaving no children, the widow tekes all her own clothing and adornments, half the personalty—or if there be children, one- third of the personalty—the rest going to child or children. If the deceased husband was a freeholder, then the widow is entitled to onq- Local rates. Judgment debts. Funeral expenses. Costs of Probate. Crown taxes. Salaries and wages. Special and common debts. Specific legacies. General legacies. Residue.