72 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. cooking, thus saving the turning of the meat, as in the ordinary frying pan or on the gridiron, and all the fat and gravy issuing from the meat is preserved. The corrugation serves to obtain in the space the greatest amount of heating surface possible, and the cover, or second part, economises the heat so thoroughly that a chop may be cooked in eight minutes. The broilers are made in the following sizes: round, 9 inches, 4s. 91 i. ; oval, 10J inches and 12 inches, at prices ranging from 4s. 4d. to 7j. 6d., according to size and quality. The form and construction is shown in the illustration given in page 65. They are sold by all ironmongers. 135. American Grip Broiler and Toaster.—This grilling utensil supplied by Messrs. Smith and Wellstood, is most useful and desirable for broiling stakes, chops, fish, &c. It is made of polished steel, with perforations in both plates, having their edges turned inwards, as may be seen from the illus- tration given in page 69. Thus it may be turned over and over on the fire with- out the escape and consequent loss of any of the fat or gravy coming from the meat, &c., the basting process being self acting, and the flavour of the meat, &c., being fully retained. The perforations being turned inwards, grip the meat or fish firmly, and prevent any motion from one part of the pan to another. By frequent turning, the gravy, &c., is distributed over the upper surface of the meat or fish, while the under side is being acted on by the heat, and thus uniform tenderness and juiciness of the food that is being cooked is insured. It is suitable for use in the openings on the top of a cooking range or kitchener, or on the hot plate of a close fire range, or over the open fire, and it may be used as a bread toaster on the hot plate or in front of the fire. It is made in two sizes, namely 9 inches in diameter, sold at 2s., and 10 inches, at 2s. 6d. 136. Dutch Oven.—The Dutch oven, or bacon broiler or toaster, is made in different shapes, but the principal and purpose of each is precisely the same. The oven represented in the illustration in page 69, which is the normal tin Dutch oven, affords a suitable type of the whole. It consists of a semicircular or elliptic chamber, with a domed top, having a handle on the outside, and three hooks pendent from it on which to hang meat, chops, &c. Within is a dripping-pan, which stands on the bottom of the oven; and at about one third of the height of the interior; measuring from the bottom, is a perforated plate which serves the purpose of a gridiron. These ovens, when in tin plate are sold at prices ranging from 2S. 7d. to 4s. each, according to size. When placed before the fire they are supported on a plate hanger, consisting of a sliding plate on two bars, termin- ating in hooks in front, to hang on the bars of the range. These plate hangers are sold at from 10d. to rs. 3d. each, according to size. Sometimes the Dutch oven is suspended in front of the fire by means of the hooked wires shown in the illustra- tion. Sometimes this oven takes the form of an enamelled or tin pan, with one end square and the other semicircular. Over the pan is placed a domed hood or bonnet, with a handle outside, and a bar across the interior, with hooks or spikes, on which to place the meat, &c., to be cooked. In this form the utensil is called a bonnet oven. It is supplied with enamelled pan and hanger complete for 4s. 6d. 137. Game Oven.—A still more useful form is to be found in the tin game oven or universal broiler. This consists, as shown in the illustration given in page 74, of a flat bottom, with triangular sides rising from it at each end. On the bottom stands a shallow dripping-pan, over which, with the ends inserted near the top of each side, is a bar along which slide three hooks. On the external surface of each side is a handle, by which the utensil may be placed on or removed from the plate hanger, on which it must stand in front of the fire when used in cooking. Attached to the sides at the very apex of each, is a cover, or flap, which may be used to shut in either the fropt or the back, as may be desired. The