Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 175 Sufficient for 12 persons. 360.-MOCK TURTLE. (More Economical.) Ingredients.—A knuckle of veal weighing 5 or 6 lbs., 2 cow-heels, 2 large onions stuck with cloves, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, 3 blades of mace, salt to taste, 12 peppercorns, 1 glass of sherry, 24 force-meat balls, a little lemon-juice, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Put all the ingredients, except the force-meat balls and lemon-juice, in an earthen jar, and stew for 6 hours. Do not open it till cold. When wanted for use, skim off all the fat, and strain carefully; place it on the fire, cut up the meat into inch-and-a-lialf squares, put it, with the force-meat balls and lemon-juice, into the soup, and serve. It can be flavoured with a tablespoonful of anchovy, or Harvey’s sauce. Time.—6 hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 10 persons. The Calf—The flesh of this animal is called veal, and when young, that is, under two months old, yields a large quantity of soluble extract, and is, therefore, much employed for soups and broths. The Essex farmers have obtained a celebrity for fattening calves better than any others in England, where they are plentifully supplied with milk ; a thing impossible to be done in the immediate neighbourhood of London. Marjoram.—There are several species of this plant; but that which is preferred for cookery is a native of Portugal, and is called sweet or knotted marjoram. When its leaves are dried, they have an agreeable aromatic flavour; and hence are used for soups, stuffings, &c. Basil.—This is a native of the East Indies, and is highly aromatic, having a perfume greatly resembling that of cloves. It is not much employed in English cookery, but is a favourite with French cooks, by whom its leaves are used in soups and salads. 361.-CLEAR MOCK TURTLE. Ingredients.—i a calfs head, i lb. of gravy beef, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, ^ head of celery, 2 onions stuck with 3 cloves each, bunch of herbs, 2b peppercorns, blade of mace, salt, 6 oz. of bacon or ham, 2 glasses of sherry, 4 quarts of water, the juice of | a lemon. Mode.—Wash and bone the head. Tie the meat in a cloth and chop the bones, put the meat, bones, and half the vegetables and seasoning into a stewpan with the water, allow it to boil up and skim well. Simmer about 3 hours. Take the head up and strain the stock into a basin. When the stock is cold carefully remove the fat. Put the stock into a stewpan with the remainder of the vegetables, and the meat finely shreded. Whisk over the fire until the soup is just on the boil. Draw it on one side, and allow it to simmer gently for 10 minutes, when clarified strain through a clean cloth, add the stock, some force-meat balls, and pieces of the head served in the soup. Time.—6 hours. Average Cost, is. per quart. Seasonable any time.