yd A rrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. on -by a powerful screw at the top, by which the contents of the presser are squeezed to flatness. A good presser may be bought for 6s. 6d. Loveridge’s pressers are made in two sizes: No. i, 6£ in. deep and 5J in. in diameter, sold at 9s.; and No. 2, 6J in. deep and 6J in. in diameter, sold at 105. 6d. An illustra- tion of the tongue presser is given in page 74. 145. Steak, Tongs.—When meat is being broiled or grilled, to prevent the juices of the steak from being lost by pricking the meat with a fork, in turning it about on the gridiron, steak-tongs are brought into requisition for handling the steaks during the process. By making use of these the gravy is kept in the meat. These are supplied at prices ranging from 2s. gd. upwards. An illustration of the steak tongs is given in page 74. A cutlet bat, illustrated in page 77, is sometimes used for beating cutlets, chops, &c. ; steaks, if beaten, are beaten with the rolling- pin. 146. The Meat Chopper is used for chopping and disjointing bones. In cases where a little gravy is to be made for a hash, the bones of the joint should always be chopped in a few places, to get as much goodness out of them as pos- sible. These are sold at from 3s. to 45. 6d., according to size. Meat choppers, it should be said, have wood handles. Steel cleavers have handles of stee1 that is to say blade and handle are made all in one piece. They are sold at from 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d., according to size. Illustrations of the meat chopper and cleaver are given in page 77. 147. Cook’s Knife.—The knife generally used by cooks is made very pointed at the end ; and for cooking purposes is preferable to the short round- bladed knife. They are made 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 inches in length, and are sold respectively—English make at 3s. 6d., 45., 4s. 6d., 5s. and 6s.; and French make at 2s., 2s. gd., 3s., 3s. 3d. and 3s. 6d. All these knives, whether French or English are handled with ebony. Cooks’ forks are made to match the knives and are supplied—English make from 2s. 6d., and French make from is. gd. upwards. The forks are larger and stronger than ordinary forks, and, therefore, better suited for lifting masses of meat and puddings out of saucepan when boil- ing in a cloth, &c. The cook’s knife is illustrated in page 77. 148 Meat Saw.—A meat saw, as shown in the illustration given in page 77, is used for sawing bones in places where a chopper is not available. For instance, this utensil would come into requisition where a knuckle of ham is required to be severed from the thick end. The meat would first be cut all round down to the bone with a sharp knife, and the bone would then be sawn through. Good meat saws are sold at from 3s. gd. to 5s. 149. Mincing Knife.—A tool like the one represented in the illustration given in page 77 is convenient for chopping suet, and any ingredient that requires to be finely minced. Being made with a firm wooden handle, the hand does not get so fatigued as by using an ordinary knife, and the business of mincing is accomplished in a much shorter time. These utensils should be kept sharp, and should be ground occasionally. A good mincing-knife of this form is supplied at is. 8d., but steel French mincing knifes of the form shown in page 77, just below the ordinary mincing knife, are sold at 16s. 6d. per pair. 150. Chopping Tray.—For chopping suet, meat, &c., with the mincing knife, a chopping-tray should be provided. It is simply a board with ledges at the back and sides to prevent the suet, &c. from falling off when being chopped. They are made from 14 to 18 inches across the front, and sold at from 4s. 6d. to 7s., according to size. An illustration of the chopping tray is given in page 80. 151. Bread Grater.—Nicely grated bread-crumbs rank as one of the most important ingredients in many puddings, seasonings, stuffings, forcemeats- &c