54° Recipes for Cooking Pork. Sufficient.—2 lbs., when served with poultry or veal, sufficient for 10 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1185.-TO CURE BACON IN THE WILTSHIRE WAY. Ingredients.—lb. of coarse sugar, i| lb. of bay-salt, 6 oz. 01 salt- petre, 1 lb. of common salt. Mode.—Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for 24 hours; then pound and mix the above ingredients well together and rub it well into the meat, which should be turned every day for a month ; then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it for 10 days. Time.—To remain in the pickle, 1 month ; to be smoked, 10 days. Sufficient.—The above quantity of salt for 1 pig. How Pig3 wera formally Pastured and Fed.—Though unquestionably far greater numbers of swine are now kept in England than formerly, every peasant having one or more of that useful animal, in feudal times immense droves of pigs were kept by the franklings and barons: in those days, the swine-herds being a regular part of the domestic service of every feudal household, their duty consisted in daily driving the herd of swine from the castle-yard, or outlying farm, to the nearest woods, chase, or forest, where the frankling or vavasour had, either by right or grant, what was called free warren, or the liberty to feed his hogs off the acorns, beech, and chestnuts that lay in such abundance on the earth, and far exceeded the power of the royal or privileged game to consume. Indeed, it was the license granted the nobles of free warren, especially for their swine, that kept up the iniquitous forest laws to so late a date, and covered so.large a portion of the land with such immense tracts of wood and brake, to the injury of agriculture and the misery of the people. Some idea of the extent to %vhich swine were grazed in the feudal times may be formed by observing the number of pigs still fed in Epping Forest, the F'orest of Dean, and the New Forest, in Hampshire, where for several months of the year, the beech-nuts and acorns yield them so plentiful a diet. In Germany, where the chestnut is so largely cultivated, the amount of food shed every autumn is enormous, and consequently the pig, both wild and domestic, has, for a considerable portion of the year, an unfailing supply of admirable nourishment. Impressed with the value of this fruit for the lood of pigs, the late Prince Consort, with great judgment, encouraged the collection of chestnuts in Windsor Park, and by giving a small reward to poor old people and children for every bushel collected, not only founded an occupation for many of the unemployed poor, but, by providing a gratuitous food for their pig, encouraged a feeling of providence and economy. 1186.-FOR CURING BACON, AND KEEPING IT FREE FROM RUST. (Cobbett's Recipe.) The Two Sides that Remain, and which are called flitches, are to be cured for bacon. They are first rubbed with salt on their insides, or flesh sides, then placed one on the other, the flesh sides uppermost, in a salting trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine, for, to have sweet and fine bacon, the flitches must not be sopping in brine, which gives it the sort of vile taste that barrel and sea pork have. Every one knows how different is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state ; therefore, change the salt often—once in 4 or 5 days; let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long; twice change the flitches, put that at bottom which was first on the top; this mode will cost