Mutton Pie. 5°3 Mode.—Cut some very thin slices from a leg or the chump end of a loin of mutton; sprinkle them with pepper, salt, pounded mace, minced savoury herbs, and minced shalot; fry them in butter, stir in a dessert- spoonful of flour, add the gravy, and lemon-juice, simmer very gently about 5 or 7 minutes, and serve immediately. Time.—5 to 7 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 4 d. Seasonable at any time. 1102.—MUTTON PIE. (Fr.—Pat6 de Mouton.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of a cold leg, loin, or neck of mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, x dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs ; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot; 3 or 4 potatoes, 1 teacupful of gravy; crust. Mode.—Cold mutton may be made into very good pies if well seasoned and mixed with a few herbs ; if the leg is used, cut it into very thin slices; if the loin or neck, into thin cutlets. Place some at the bottom of the dish; season well with pepper, salt, mace, parsley, and herbs; then put a layer of potatoes sliced, then more mutton, and so on till the dishis full; add the gravy, cover with a crust, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—I hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of an underdone leg of mutton may be converted into a very good family pudding, by cutting the meat into slices, and putting them into a basin lined with a suet crust. It should be seasoned well with pepper, salt, and minced shalot, covered with a crust, and boiled for about three hours. no3.—MUTTON PIE. (Fr.—Pate de Mouton.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of the neck or loin of mutton, weighed after being boned ; 2 kidneys, pepper and salt to taste, 2 teacupfuls of gravy or water, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot, a puff crust. Mode.—Bone the mutton, and cut the meat into steaks, all of the same thickness, and leave but very little fat. Cut up the kidneys, and arrange these with the meat neatly in a pie-dish ; sprinkle over them the minced parsley and a seasoning of pepper and salt ; pour in the gravy, and cover with a tolerably good puff crust. Bake for hour, or rather longer should the pie be very large, and let the oven be rather brisk. A well-made suet crust may be used instead of puff crust, and will be found exceedingly good.