mg Frangipane Cake. 2476.—FARMER’S FRUIT CAKE. Ingredients.—Take I cup of dried sour apples, 1 cup of golden syrup, 1 cup of sugar, £ cup of butter, £ cup of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, 1 egg, 2 cups of flour. Mode.—Chop the apples fine, and soak over-night; in the morning let them simmer for two hours with the syrup. Prepare the other ingredients as for any cake, beating well, adding the apple and syrup when a little cool, not cold. Bake in tins in a moderate oven. Time.—£ to f hour. Average Cost, 10d. Seasonable at any time. 2477.—FLANNEL CAKES. Ingredients.—I quart of milk, i tablespoonful of butter, 3 eggs, $ lb. sifted flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. Mode.—Melt the butter in the milk, and when lukewarm add the eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, and stir in the flour. Add the yeast, beat well, and leave to rise. Then make into cakes, and bake 15 minutes in a hot oven. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 10A. Seasonable at any time. 2478.—FRANGIPANE CAKE. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of flour, 2 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of butter, 5 eggs (omitting the whites of 3), a pinch of salt, puff-paste. Mode.—Put the eggs, sugar and flour into a pan and mix to a smooth paste, adding the milk very slowly, then the butter and salt, stir over the fire for 20 minutes, stir occasionally as the custard cools, adding a flavour- ing of vanilla or ratafias. Roll out some puff-paste a quarter of an inch thick and stamp into rounds. Put half of the rounds on a buttered baking sheet, spread over the custard and cover with the other rounds, pressing the edges together; when nearly done in a hot oven, glaze and put back to colour. Time.—20 minutes for the custard. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. 2479.-FRENCH CAKE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, £ oz. of yeast, 1 lb. of butter, 6 eggs, \ lb. of best raisins, £ lb. of currants, £ lb. of sugar. Mode.—Take away half a pound of the flour, make a hole in the rest, and put in the yeast mixed with a little warm water; work it to a sponge,