Compote of Oranges. 1005 Time.—10 minutes to boil the sugar and water; 20 minutes to boil the fruit the first time, 10 minutes the second time ; 5 minutes to boil the syrup. Seasonable in August and September, but cheapest in September. 2173.—STEWED NORMANDY PIPPINS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of Normandy pippins, 1 quart of water, ^ tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful of ground ginger, 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lemon. Mode.—Well wash the pippins, and put them into 1 quart of water with the above proportion of cinnamon and ginger, and let them stand 12 hours; then put these all together into a stewpan, with the lemon sliced thinly, and half the moist sugar. Let them boil slowly until the pippins are half done ; then add the remainder of the sugar, and simmer until they are quite tender. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Time.—2 to 3 hours. Average Cost, is. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. 2174.-ICED ORANGES. Ingredients.—Oranges; to every lb. of pounded loaf sugar allow the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Whisk the whites of the eggs well, stir in the sugar, and beat this mixture for a quarter of an hour. Skin the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible without injuring the pulp of the fruit; pass a thread through the centre of each orange, dip them into the sugar, and tie them to a stick. Place this stick across the oven, and let the oranges remain until dry, when they will have the appearance of balls of ice. They make a pretty dessert or supper dish. Care must be taken not to have the oven too fierce, or the oranges would scorch and acquire a brown colour, which would entirely spoil their appearance. Time.—From £ to 1 hour to dry in a moderate oven. Average Cost, i^d. each. Sufficient.—l lb. of sugar to ice 12 oranges. Seasonable from November to May. The First Orange-Tree in France.—The first orange-tree cultivated in the centre of France was to be seen a few years ago at Fontainebleau. It was called Le Connitable (the Constable), because it had belonged to the Connetable de Bourbon, and had been confiscated, together with all; roperty belonging to that prince, after his revolt against the sovereign. 2175.-COMPOTE OF ORANGES. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup No. 2115, 6 oranges. Mode.—Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible.