Introduction to Cookery. 120 MENUS. 245. To make a yood bill of fare is a difficult thing without con- stant practice. One is so apt to forget such things as giving two brown sauces in succession, and that we are following a very savoury dish with one comparatively tasteless, while we often lose the character of the whole by introducing one or two dishes that we think are good, but which are not in harmony with the rest. A dinner is, as a rule, light or heavy, according to the taste of the givers, or more properly speaking, to the taste they assume to be that of the friends they are about to entertain. And this last is a point we should all consider if we wish to be successful dinner givers, namely what our friends will like, instead of what we our- selves prefer. In a chapter on “ Dinners and Dining” are given many hints to entertainers, and we have also no less than 168 menus for parties varying from six to eighteen, amongst which are some for vegetarian dinners, the recipes for which will be found amongst those for cooking vegetables. As the menus are arranged to vary in cost to suit all, it is thought they will supply a want; but for those who like to choose for themselves we have a list of everything in season for each month ; also a price list which has been made as ac- curate as possible ; but we warn our readers that it really wants some thought to plan a menu : and as we have said before, we are apt to err over the sauces which now give definition to most of the dishes ; but there can be no hard and fast rule set down for their arrangement, and we can only advise that they should be made not only with reference to season, taste, &c., but with regard to the number of hands and the time there is in which to prepare them. ENTRIES. 246. Menus, past and present.— Comparing a menu of some twenty- five years ago with one of to-day, the most noticeable difference will be with the entrees, then such an immaterial part of the dinner, now such an important one. Then people looked forward to the joint, while now it is very often not partaken of, and, in many fashionable menus for small numbers, it does not occur. We have altered a good deal in our tastes during the last quarter of a century; and amongst other things, in our eating and drinking. Some say in this last respect, with very great advantage, that people used to eat and drink too much ; yet there is perhaps less difference between then and now than we are apt to imagine. Again, comparing the menus, we find that though there were more solid dishes in the old one, there are at least double the number of courses in the new, so that the amount consumed at a dinner by each person was probably not greater than nowadays, while if one of our fashionable men of the present were to reckon up the brandies and sodas and other nips taken during the day, with the various wines drunk at dinner, we think, in the matter of quantity, he would not find him- self very much behind the one or two bottles of port drunk regularly by our old- fashioned country squires. 247. Popularity of Made Pishes.—To return to our entrees, how- ever, there has been a decided improvement in them, and while we have so many more, and so much care and time is expended on them, it is no wonder they are such a favourite part of the dinner of to-day. In this book, following severally the recipes for fish, meat, poultry and game, will be found those for entrees made from each, which have been tried and found good, most of which appear in the menus specially prepared for the same for every month in the year. A great difficulty has been experienced by some people in making entrees