CHAPTER V. INTRODUCTION- TO COOKERY. 205. In the Fine Arts the progress of mankind from barbarism to civilisation is marked by a gradual succession of triumphs over the rude materi- alities of nature—in the Art of Cookery is the progress gradual, from the earliest and simplest modes, to these of the most complicated and refined. Plain ot rudely-carved stones, tumuli, cr mounds of earth, are the monuments by which barbarous tribes denote the events of their history, to be succeeded, only in tha long course of a series of ages, by beautifully proportioned columns, gracefully sculptured statues, triumphal arches, coins, medals, and the higher efforts of the pencil and the pen, as man advances by culture and observation to the perfection of his faculties. So is it with the art of cookery. Man, in his primitive state, lives upon roots and the fruits of the earth, until by degrees he is driven to seek for new means by which his wants may be supplied and enlarged. He then be- comes a hunter and a fisher. As his species increases, greater necessities come upon him, when he gradually abandons the roving life of the savage for the more stationary pursuits of the herdsmen. These beget still more settled habits, when he begins the practice of agriculture, forms ideas of the rights of property, and has his own both defined and secured. The forest, the stream, and the sea are now no longer his only resources for food. He sows and he reaps, pastures and breeds cattle, lives on the cultivated produce of his fields, and revels in the luxur- ies of the dairy; raises flecks for clothing, and assumes, to all intents and pur- poses, the habits of permanent life and the comfortable condition of a farmer. This is the iourth stage cf social progress, up to which the useful or mechanical arts have been incidentally developing themselves, when trade and commerce begin. Through these various phases, only to live has been the great object of mankind ; but by-and-by, comforts are multiplied, and accumulating riches create new wants. The object, then, is not only to live, but to live economically, agree- ably, tastefully and well. Accordingly, the art of cookery commences; and al- though the fruits of the earth, the fowls of the air, the beasts of the field, and the fish of the sea, are still the only food of mankind, yet these are so prepared, im- proved, and dressed by skill and ingenuity, that they are the means of immeasur- ably extending the boundaries of human enjoyments. Everything that is edible, and passes under the hands of the cook, is more or less changed, and assumes new forms. Hence the influence of that functionary is immense upon the happi- ness of a household. 206. Excellence in the Art of Cookery, as in all other things, is only attainable by practice, experience and personal skill. In proportion, there- fore, to the opportunities which a cook has had of these, so will be his excellence in the art. It is in the large establishments of princes, noblemen, and very affluent families alone, that the man-cook is found in this country. He also superintends the kitchens of large hctels. clubs and public institutions, where he usually makes out the bills of fare, which are generally submitted to the principal for approval. To be able to do this, therefore, it is absolutely necessary that he should be a judge of the season of every dish, as well as know perfectly the state of every article he undertakes to prepare. He must also be a judge of the articles he uses; for no skill however great it may be, will enable him to make that good which is