1529 To Clean Marble, rosin pounded very fine. Stir in gradually, while these two ingredients are quite warm, the oil of turpentine. Keep this composition well covered for use in a tin or earthen pot. A little of this gloss should be spread on a piece of coarse woollen cloth, and the furniture well rubbed with it; afterwards it should be polished with a fine cloth. 3421. —TO CLEAN MARBLE. Mix with £ pint of soap-lees, £ gill of turpentine, sufficient pipe-clay and bullocks’ gall to make the whole into a rather thick paste. Apply it to the marble with a soft brush, and after a day or two, when quite dry, rub it off with a soft rag. Apply this a second or third time till the marble is quite clean. 3422. —TO CLEAN MARBLE. (Another Recipe.) Take two parts of soda, one of pumice-stone, and one of finely-powdered chalk. Sift these through a fine sieve, and mix them into a paste with water. Rub this well all over the marble, and the stains will be removed ; then wash it with soap and water, and a beautiful bright polish will be produced. 3423.—TO REMOVE STAINS FROM MARBLe. Make a paste of powdered pipe-clay and fullers’ earth ; mix with strong soap lye; lay a thick coating of this paste on the marble, and pass lightly over it a moderately warm flat-iron until it is dry. Leave it for a short time, and then wash it off with clean water. If the marble be not entirely free from grease, repeat the process till every stain disappears. Dis- colorisation by smoke may be removed in the same manner. 3424. —POLISH FOR BLACK GRATES. Ingredients.—1 lb. of common asphaltum, £ pint of linseed-oil, 1 quart of oil of turpentine. Mode.—Melt the asphaltum, and add gradually to it the other two in- gredients. Apply this with a small painter’s brush, and leave it to become perfectly dry. The grate will need no other cleaning, but will merely require dusting every day, and occasionally brushing with a dry black- lead brush. This is, of course, when no fires are used. When they are required, the bars, cheeks and back of grate will need black-leading in the usual manner. 3425. —POLISH FOR BRIGHT STOVES. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of turpentine, 1 ditto of sweet oil, emery- powder.