340 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Mode.—Peel and chop the onions, then fry them with the butter in a stewpan till nicely browned, mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little water, add it to the onions with the stock and seasoning. Stir over the fire io minutes, then serve. Time.—15 minutes altogether. Average Cost, 5d. Seasonable at any time. 751.—SAUCE OF ORANGES. (To be eaten with Wild Ducks.) Ingredients.—2 Seville oranges, 1 glass of sherry, 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, cayenne. Mode.—Peel the oranges and boil the peel till soft, then drain and cut into thin strips. Then put the peel into a saucepan with the sherry (any white wine will do as well) and the gravy, which must be free from any particular flavouring, add the juice of the oranges and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer 5 minutes and pour over the ducks. This sauce should be acid, and if not sufficiently so, a teaspoonful or more of lemon- juice must be added. Time.—Altogether 20 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. 752.—OYSTER SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Huitres.) (To Serve with Fish, Boiled Poultry, &c.) Ingredients.—3 dozen oysters, £ pint of melted butter, made with milk, No. 679. Mode.—Open the oysters carefully, and save their liquor; strain it into a clean saucepan (a lined one is best), put in the oysters, and let them just come to the boiling-point, when they should look plump. Take them off the fire immediately, and put the whole into a basin. Strain the liquor from them, mix with it sufficient milk to make half a pint altogether and follow the directions of No. 679. When the melted butter is ready and very smooth, put in the oysters, which should be previously bearded, if you wish the sauce to be really nice. Set it by the side of the fire to get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, or the oysters will immedi- ately harden. Using cream instead of milk makes this sauce extremely delicious. When liked, add a seasoning of cayenne, or anchovy sauce; but, as we have before stated, a plain sauce should be plain, and not be overpowered by highly-flavoured essences; therefore we recommend that the above directions be implicitly followed, and no seasoning added. Average Cost, for this quantity, 31. 4d.