Recipes for Soups. 162 keep them on the fire till the stock has all boiled away, taking care that they do not burn. Cook equal quantities of peas and asparagus points in the same way, and cut some pieces the size of a sixpence from lettuce and sorrel leaves, and let them just boil in the stock, which pour over the cooked vegetables which have been placed in the tureen, and throw in a few sprigs of chervil. This is a very pretty soup, but it takes some little time and trouble to make. 328. RICE SOUP. (Fr.—Potage au Riz.) Ingredients.—4 oz. of Patna rice, salt, cayenne and mace, 2 quarts of white stock, No. 278. Mode.—Throw the rice into boiling water, and let it remain 5 minutes; then pour it into a sieve, and allow it to drain well. Now add it to the stock boiling, and allow it to stew till it is quite tender; season to taste. Serve quickly. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. id. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for eight persons. Rice.—This is a plant of Indian origin, and has formed the principal fbod of the Indian and Chinese people from the most remote antiquity. Both Pliny and Dioscorides class it with the cereals, though Gaien places it among the vegetables. Be this as it may, however, it was imported to Greece, from India, about 286 years before Christ, and by the ancients it was esteemed, both nutritious and fattening. There are many kinds of rice—the Rangoon, Arracan, or Patna, from Asia, and Carolina of the United States. Of these usually the Indian varieties are imported to this country; the Carolina is considered the best, as it is the dearest, but very little now leaves the ears of rice. Siates, selected Patna being often sold as Carolina. The nourishing pro- perties of rice are greatly inferior to those of wheat; but it is both a light and wholesome food. In combination with other foods, its nutritive qualities are greatly Increased ; but from its having little fat or albumen, it is not fit for a sole article of diet. 329.—RICE SOUP. (Fr.—Potage au Riz a la Cr6me.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, the yolks of 4 eggs, i a pint of cream rather more than 2 quarts of stock, No. 273. Mode.—Boil the rice in the stock, and rub half of it through a tammy; put the stock in a stewpan, add all the rice, and simmer gently for 5 minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs, mix them with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve ; take the soup off the fire, add the eggs and cream, stirring frequently. Heat it gradually, stirring all the time; but do not let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, is. 2d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons.