goo General Observations on Creams, Jellies, &c. are given for fish, fowl and game souffles in another part of the book. Savoury or sweet, they are all made in the same way, so that the following remarks apply to all. Eggs are a principal ingredient, and they must be fresh or it will not be pos- sible to whip the whites to a stiff froth, on which the excellence of a souffle in great part depends. Nothing should be added to the whites but a pinch of salt. They are easier to whip in a cool place or in a draught. They cannot be made too stiff, and should be so that the plate or basin can be turned over without their dropping off. Generally it is better to put one or two more whites than yolks. The whites should always be stirred lightly in immediately before baking. The yolks should be added unbroken to the panada, flavouring, pounded meat, or whatever else is used as a basis, and well stirred in, the more the better. Meat, fish, or fruit must be rubbed through a fine sieve, cheese dry and grated. Sugar must be finely pounded. A baked souffle must be served directly it comes from the oven, in the dish in which it was baked. It must be baked directly it is mixed, so that the dish should be buttered and tied round with buttered paper before the souffle is begun to be made. Tin baking dishes are sold on purpose for souffles, but, failing these, an earthen pan or a common jam-pot can be used. It is well to warm them before putting in the mixture. The oven should be as hot as possible, not to burn. Small souffles, of cheese, See., are baked in paper cases. A steamed souffle should be turned out of the dish it is cooked in; it does not fall so quickly as a baked, and can be eaten cold. It must be put in a tin that has not been used for baking, as it is difficult to pre- vent its sticking. Let the water boil very slowly, or it will be full of holes and liable to break. 1923. Omelettes Soufftees are those made by whisking the whites and yolks separately. They are generally baked in a very hot oven, or browned with a salamander, instead of being cooked over the fire entirely as are ordinary omelets.