153 Recipes for Soups. 304.—EGG SOUP. (Fr.—Potage aux CEufs.) Ingredients.—A tablespoonful of flour, 4 eggs, 2 small blades of finely pounded mace, 2 quarts of stock, No. 273. Mode.—Beat up the flour smoothly in a tea-spoonful of cold stock, and put in the eggs; throw them into stock, stirring all the time, but do not let it boil. Simmer for £ of an hour. Season and serve with a French roll in the tureen, or fried sippets of bread. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 10d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. 305. —FLEMISH SOUP. (Fr. Soupe a la Flamande.) Ingredients.—1 turnip, 1 small carrot, | head of celery, 6 green onions shred very fine, 1 lettuce cut small, chervil, £ pint of asparagus, cut small, £ pint of peas, 2 oz. butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, ^ pint of cream or milk, salt to taste, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of stock, No. 274, or an equal quantity of water. Mode —Put the vegetables in the butter to stew gently for an hour with a teacupful of stock; then add the remainder of the stock, and simmer for another hour. Now beat the yolks of the eggs well, mix with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve. Take the soup off the fire, put the eggs, &c., to it, and keep stirring it well. Bring it nearly to a boil, but do not leave off stirring, or the eggs will curdle. Season with salt, and add the sugar. Time.—24 hours. Average Cost, is. 3d. per quart. Seasonable from May to August. Sufficient for 8 persons. Chervil (Fr. Cerfeuil.)—Although the roots of this plant are poisonous, its leaves are tender, and are used in salads. In antiquity it made a relishing dish, when prepared with oil, wine and gravy. It is a native of various parts of Europe, and the species cultivated in the gardens of Paris has beautifully frizzled leaves. 306. —FLEMISH SOUP. (Fr. Soupe a la Flamande.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—5 onions, sheads of celery, 10 moderate-sized potatoes, 3 oz. butter, | pint of water, ^ pint of cream or milk, 3 quarts of stock, No. 105. Mode.—Slice the onions, celery and potatoes, and put them with the butter and water into a stewpan, and simmer for an hour. Then fill up the stewpan with stock, and boil gently till the potatoes are done, which will be in about an hour. Rub all through a tammy, and add the cream (previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream is put in.