THE LOBSTER. 234 Recipes for Cooking Fish. Seasonable at any time. medium size are always the best. They should be broad across the tail. The coral is red. The spawn is sometimes sold uncooked at per ounce, and is then dark green, but it becomes red on cooking. It should be rubbed through a sieve with a little butter. It is only used to colour cutlets, &c. Small-sized lobs.ers are cheapest, and answer very well for sauce. In boiling lobsters, the appear- ance of the shell will be much improved by rubbing over it a little butter or salad-oil on being immediately taken from the pot. The Lobster —This is one of the crab tribe, and is found on most of the rocky coasts of Great firitain. Some are caught with tbe hand, but the larger number in pots, which serve all the purposes of a trap, being made of osiers and baited with garbage. They are shaped like a wire mousetrap; so that when the lobsters once enter them they cannot get out again. They are fastened to a cord, and sunk in the sea, and their place marked by a buoy. The fish is very prolific, and deposits its eggs in the sand, where they are soon hatched. On the coast of Norway they are very abundant, and it is from there that the English metropolis is mostly supplied. They are rather indigestible, and, as a food, not so nutritive as they are generally supposed to be. 489.—HOT LOBSTER. (Fr —Homard au Gratin.) Ingredients.—1 lobster, 2 oz. of butter, grated nutmeg, salt, pepper and pounded mace to taste, bread-crumbs, 2 eggs. Mode.—Pound the meat of the lobster to a smooth paste with the butter and seasoning, and add a few bread-crumbs. Beat the eggs, and make the whole mixture into the form of a lobster; pound the spawn and sprinkle over it. Bake a quarter of an hour, and just before serving, lay over it the tail and body shell, with the small claws underneath, to re- semble a lobster. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 490.—LOBSTER SALAD. (Fr.—Salade de Homard.) Ingredients.—I hen lobster, lettuces, endive, small salad (whatever is in season); a little chopped beetroot, 2 hard-boiled eggs, a few slices of cucumber. For dressing, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 do. of vinegar, 1 tea- spoonful of made mustard, the yolks of two eggs, cayenne and salt to taste, £ teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. These ingredients should be mixed perfectly smooth, and form a creamy-looking sauce. Mode.—Wash the salad, and thoroughly dry it by shaking it in a cloth. Cut up the lettuces and endive, pour the dressing on them, and lightly throw in the small salad. Mix all well together with the pick- ings from the body of the lobster ; pick the meat from the shell, cut it up into nice square pieces, put half in the salad, the other half reserve tor garnishing. Separate the yolks from the whites of 2 hard-boiled eggs; chop the whites very fine, and rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterwards the coral from the inside. Arrange the salad lightly on a glass dish, and garnish, first with a row of sliced cucumber, then