491 Broiled Mutton. Mode.—Cut the mutton into pieces about 2 inches square, and let them be tolerably lean ; put them into a stewpan, with a little fat or butter, and fry of a nice brown ; then dredge in a little flour, slice the onions, and put them, with the herbs, in the stewpan ; pour in sufficient water just to cover the meat, and simmer the whole gently until the mutton is tender. Take out the meat, strain, and skim off all the fat from the gravy, and put both the meat and gravy back into the stewpan ; add about a quart of young green peas, and let them boil gently until done 2 or 3 slices of bacon added and stewed with the mutton give additional flavour; and, to ensure the peas being a beautiful green colour, they may be boiled in water separately, and added to the stew at the moment of serving. Time.—2^ hours. Average Cost, 5 d. per pound. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from June to August. Names of Animals Saxon, and of their Flesh Noiman —The names of all our domestic ani- mals are of Saxon origin ; but it is curious to observe that Norman names have been given to the different sorts of flesh which these animals yield. How beautifully this illustrates the relative position of Saxon and Norman after the Conquest. The Saxon hind had the charge of tending and feeding the domestic animals, but only that they might appear on the table of his Norman lord. Thus “ox," “steer," "cow" are Saxon, but “beef” is Norman; “calf” is Saxon, but “ veal ” Norman ; “ sheep " is Saxon, but “ mutton ” Norman ; so it is severally with “ deer,” and “venison,” “ swine " and “ pork," “ fowl ” and “pullet." " Bacon,” the only flesh, which, per- haps, ever came within t ie Saxon’s reach, is the single exception. 1077.-BROILED MUTTON AND TOMATO SAUCE. (Fv.—Filets de Mouton aux Tomates.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A few slices of cold mutton, tomato sauce, No. 784. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from a cold leg or shoulder of mutton ; season them with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire. Make some tomato sauce by recipe No. 784, pour it over the mutton, and serve. This makes an excellent dish, and must be served very hot. Time.—About five minutes to broil the mutton. Seasonable in September and October. When tomatoes are plentiful and seasonable. Shepherds and their Flocks.—The shepherd's crook is older than either the husbandman’s plough or the warrior’s sword. We are told that Abel was a keeper of sheep Many passages in holy writ enable us to appreciate the pastoral riches of the first Eastern nations; and we can form an idea of the number of their flocks, when we read that Jacob gave the children of Hamor a hundred sheep for the price of a field, and that the King of Israel received a hundred thousand every year from the King of Moab, his tributary, and a like number of rams covered with their fleece. The tendency which most sheep have to ramble, renders it necessary for them to be attended by a shepherd. To keep a flock within bounds is no easy task ; but the watchful shepherd manages to accomplish it without harassing the sheep, in the Highlands of Scotland, where the herbage is scanty, the sheep farm requires to be very large, and to be watched over by many shepherds. The farms of some of the great Scottish landowners are of enormous extent. “How many sheep have you on your estate ? ” asked Prince Esterhazy of the Duke of Argyll. “ I have not the most remote idea,” replied the duke; “ but I know the shepherds number several thousands."