Breast of Lamb. 509 Seasonable.— Grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. 1114.—BREAST OF LAMB AND GREEN PEAS. (Fr.—Poitrine d’Agneau aux Petits Pois.) Ingredients.—1 breast of lamb, a few slices of bacon, ^ pint of stock, No. 273, 1 lemon, 1 onion, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, green pe?.s. Mode.— Remove the skin from a breast of lamb, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer for 5 minutes. Take it out and lay it in cold water. Line the bottom of a stewpan with a few thin slices of bacon ; lay the lamb on these ; peel the lemon, cut it into slices, and put these on the meat, to keep it white and make it tender; cover with x or 2 more slices of bacon; add the stock, onion, and herbs, and set it on a slow fire to simmer very gently until tender. Have ready some green peas, put these on a dish, and place the lamb on the top of these. The appearance of this dish may be much improved by glazing the lamb, and spinach may be substituted for the peas when variety is desired. Time.—i£ hour. Average Cost, 7 d. per lb. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable.—Grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. The Lamb as a Sacrifice.—The number of lambs consumed in sacrifices by the Hebrews must have been very considerable. Two lambs “of the first year ” were appointed to be sacrificed daily lor the morning and evening sacrifice; and a lamb served as a substitute for the first-born of unclean animals, such as the ass, which could not be accepted as an offering to the Lord. Every year, also, on the anniversary of the deliverance of the children of Israel from the bondage of Egypt, every family was ordered to sacrifice a lamb or kid, and to sprinkle some of its blood upon the door-posts, in commemoration of the judgment of God upon the Egyptians. It was to be eaten roasted, with unleavened bread and bitter herbs, in haste, with the loins girded, the shoes on the feet, and the staff in tne hand ; and whatever remained until the morning was to be burnt. The sheep was also used in the numerous special, individual, and national sacrifices ordered by the Jewish law. On extraordinary occasions, vast quantities of sheep were sacrificed at once; thus Solomon, on the completion of the temple, offered “sheep and oxen that could not be told nor numbered for multitude.” 1115.-STEWED BREAST OF LAMB. (Fr.— Poitrine d’Agneau au Vin Blanc.) Ingredients.—1 breast of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, sufficient stock, No. 273, to cover it, 1 glass of slierry, thickening of butter and flour Mode.—Skin the lamb, cut it into pieces, and season them with pepper and salt; lay these in a stewpan, pour in sufficient stock or gravy to cover them, and stew very gently until tender, which will be in about i^hour. Just before serving, thicken the sauce with a little butter and flour; add the sherry, give one boil, and pour it over the meat. Green peas, or stewed mushrooms, may be strewed over the meat, and will be found a very great improvement. Time.—i| hour. Average Cost, 7 d. per lb. Sufficient for 3 persons.