Serving Wines, 1189 disguises some of the bad points. Hence one may reasonably conclude, when offered iced wine, either that it is not so good as it might be or that oui entertainer is innocently spoiling the good wine which he is placing before us. If an iced beverage is wanted in hot weather, have a cup made, either of cider, claret or rich champagne; but pray do not d deriorate fine wines by exposing them to temperatures many degrees below that at which they have been kept. We knew, many years ago, a great epicure who always took, with his turtle- soup, iced madeira ! De mortuis, &c. 2658. Serving Wines.—Some few wines, notably old sherries, are often found to be better the day after the drawing of the cork. In such cases decant- ing should be done three or four hours before the time for serving, and the stopper of the decanter should not be put in. Most wines are found to be at their best when they are served at about the tem- perature of the room in which they are to be consumed. Hence there is wisdom in the practice of placing decanters on the mantelpiece ; for, as the room is always warmer at the end of a dinner than at its commencement, the wines for dessert which have been so treated are thus served at the proper temperature. 2659. Wineglasses.— It is an undeniable fact that wine tastes better out of some forms and kinds of drinking-vessels than it does out of others. We do not know whether the reason for it has ever been satisfactorily explained. But if any one doubts it, let him put some of the same sherry into a tea-cup, and into a wineglass; and he will easily decide which of the two vessels gives the more satisfactory result. First, as to form. It is usually thought necessary to have different forms of wineglasses for different wines. Doubtless this variety pleases the eye ; but there is not the slightest occasion for it, as far as the wine or the enjoyment of it is concerned. At least, there is one form which suits all wines, and that is, half of a soap-bubble, or to be very accurate, the lower five-eighths of a bubble, for the bowl of the glass should be a trifle more than the half of a globe. The reference to a soap-bubble is not merely for form’s sake ; it is intended also to convey the opinion that the glass cannot be too thin, if it will but hold the wine without breaking. You have only to try the same wine out of an old fashioned thick cut wineglass and out of a modern thin plain glass, and you will at once decide in favour of the latter. 2660. Large Glasses.—Next, as to size. This is so much a matter of opinion and taste that we would leave it to our readers to decide for themselves. Not that we regard it as a matter of no moment, for we decidedly object to drink- ing champagne out of a liqueur-glass. But if one size of glass is to be sufficient— and we see no reason why it might not be so regarded—then let it be large enough. We have a higher opinion than most people entertain, of the wisdom of the gentleman who wished to have his maraschino “ in a moog.” History does not record that he wished the vessel to be filled ; he simply requested that it might be served “in a mug ; ” and anyone who will compare the pleasure of drinking a tablespoonful of any liqueur out of a large thin claret-glass with the usual method of partaking of it will have no difficulty in deciding which he enjoys most. An old connoisseur of port, long since gone over to the majority, in- variably had placed on his table after dinner one glass before each guest, and this was an elegant egg-shaped rummer made of very thin glass and holding nearly a pint. He explained that you might put as much or as little into it as you pleased, adding that in no glass of smaller size could you derive so much pleasure. In our opinion, glasses running four or five to the reputed quart bottle, are the best size.