Beans with Parsley Sauce. 753 Hai loots and Lentils. — Although these vegciables are not much used in this country, yet in France, and other Catholic countries, from their peculiar constituent properties, they form an excellent substitute for animal food during Lent and maigre days. At the time of the preva- lence of the Roman Religion in this country, they were probably much more generally used than at present. As reformations are often carried beyond necessity, possibly lentils may have fallen into disuse as an article of diet among Protestants, for fear the use of them might be con- sidered a sign of popery. 1576.—HARICOTS A LA BONNE FEMME. Ingredients.—1 quart of white haricot beans, £ lb. of butter, £ oz. of salt, 2 quarts of water, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 2 pinches of salt. Mode.—Place the haricot beans in water with the above proportion of salt ; let them boil, and then draw the saucepan to the corner of the fire; let them simmer gently until the bean is easily crushed between the thumb and finger, which will be in about two hours. Drain and return them to the saucepan ; add the butter, parsley and salt, and half pint of the liquor in which the beans were boiled. Shake the saucepan over the fire until the butter is melted, and serve very hot. Time.—hours. Average Cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1577.-BEANS WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. (Fr.—Haricots Blancs a la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—1 quart of white haricot beans, £ lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, the juice of £ lemon. Mode.—Should the beans be very dry, soak them for an hour or two in cold water, and boil them until perfectly tender, as in the preceding recipe. If the water should boil away, replenish it with a little more cold, which makes the skin of the beans tender. Let them be very thoroughly done; drain them well, then add to them the butter, minced parsley and a season- ing of pepper and salt. Keep moving the stewpan over the fire without using a spoon, as this would break the beans; and when the various ingredients are well mixed with them, squeeze in the lemon-juice and serve haricot beans. very hot. Time.—From 2 to 2\ hours to boil the beans. Average Cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in winter.