115 French Culinary Terms. 240. EXPLANATION OF DOMESTIC App6tisans.—Small savouries served before or between the courses of a dinner. Aspic.—A savoury jelly, used as an exterior moulding for cold game, poultry, fish, &c. This, being of a transparent nature, allows the bird which it covers to be seen through it. It may also be used for decorating or garnishing. Assiette (plate).—Assiettes are the small entrees and hors d oeuvres, the quantity of which does not exceed what a plate will hold. At dessert, fruits, cheese, chestnuts, biscuits, &c., if served upon a plate, are termed assiettes. —Assiette volante is a dish which a servant hands round to the guests, but is not placed upon the table. Small cheese souffles, and different dishes which ought to be served very hot, are usually made assiettes volantes. Au bleu.—Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a bluish appearance. Au Naturel.—Plain, simple cookery, generally boiling in water. Bain-marie.—An open saucepan or kettle of boding water, in which smaller vessels can be set for cooking and warming. This is very useful for keeping articles hot, without altering their quantity or quality. If you keep sauce, broth, or soup by the fireside, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces; but this is prevented by using the bain-marie. Batterie de Cuisine. — Complete set of cooking apparatus. Bechamel.—French white sauce,now frequently used in English cookery. Blanchip. To whiten poultry, vege- tables, fruit, &c., by plunging them into boiling water for a short time, and afterwards plunging them into cold water, there to remain until they are cold. Blanquette.—A sort of fricassee, white, whence its name, Bouilli.—Beef or other meat boiled ; but, generally speaking, boiled beef is understood by the term. !H TERMS USED IN MODERN COOKERY. Bouilli e.—A French dish resembling hasty-pudding. Bouillon.—Broth or stock. Bouquet of Herbs.—Parsley,thyme, and green onions, tied together. Braiser. To stew meat slowly in a pan made to hold live coals on the lid, with fire above and below. Braisigre.—A saucepan having a lid with ledges, to put fire on the top. Brider. — To pass a packthread through poultry, game, &c., to keep together their members. Caramel (burnt sugar).—This is made with a piece of sugar, of the size of a nut, browned in the bottom of a saucepan; upon which a cupful of stock is gradually poured, stirring all the time, little by little. It may be used with the feather of a quill, to colour meats, such as the upper part of fricandeaux; and to impart colour to sauces. Caramel made with water insiead of stock may be used to colour competes and other entremets. Casserole.—A crust of rice, potato, &c., which, after having been moulded into the form of a pie, is baked, and then filled with a fricassee of white meat or a puree of game. Cl outer. — To insert nail-shaped pieces of truffle, tongue, &c., into meat or poultry. . Compote.—A stew, as of fruit or vegetables. Consomme.—Rich stock, or gravy. Contiser.— To insert truffle into fillets of meat or fish for entrees. Coulis.—A rich brown gravy, em- ployed for flavouring, colouring, and thickening certain soups and sauces. Cromesguis, or Kromesquis. — Salpicon (which see) wrapped in udder of veal or bacon and fried. Croquette.—Ball of fried rice, pota- toes, &c. Croutons.—Sippets of bread. Daubiere. — An oval stewpan, in which daubes are cooked ; daubes being meat or fowl stewed in sauce. Desosser.—To bone, or take out the bone from poultry, game, or fish.