605 Rouen Ducks. Sufficient.—A couple of ducks for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—Ducklings from May to August; ducks from September to January. Note.—Ducklings (Fr.— Canetons) are trussed and roasted in the same manner, and served with the same sauces and accompaniments. When iri season, serve apple sauce. The Rouen Duck.—The Rouen, or Rhone duck, is a large and handsome variety, of French extraction. The plumage of the Rouen duck is somewhat sombre ; its flesh is also much darker, and, though of higher flavour, not near so delicate as that of our own Aylesbury. It is with this latter breed that the Rouen duck is generally mated; and the result is said to be increase of size and strength. In Normandy and Brittany these ducks, as well as other sorts, greatly abound; and the “ duck-liver fidtis ” are there almost as popular as the fcUe de foie gras of Strasburg. In order to bring the liver of the wretched duck to the fashionable and un- natural size, the same diabolical cruelty is resorted to as in the case of the Strasburg goose. The poor birds are nailed by the feet to a board placed close to a fire, and, in that position, plentifully supplied with food and water. In a few days the carcass is reduced to a mere shadow, while the liver has grown monstrously. We would rather abstain from the acquaintance of a man who eat pdti de foie gras, knowing its component parts. rouen ducks. Duck's Fggs.—The ancient notion that ducks whose beaks have a tendency to curve upwards are better layers than those whose beaks do not thus point, is, we need hardly say, simply absurd: all ducks are good layers, if they are carefully fed and tended. Ducks generally lay at night, or early in the morning. While they are in perfect health, they will do this ; and one of the surest signs of indisposition among birds of this class is irregularity in laying. The eggs laid will approach nearly the colour of the layer—light coloured ducks layiDg white eggs, and brown ducks greenish-blue eggs; dark-coloured birds laying the biggest eggs. At one time the notion was prevalent that a duck would hatch no other eggs than her own ; and although this is not true, it will be, nevertheless, as well to match the duck’s own eggs as closely as possible; for we have known instances wherein the duck has turned out of the nest and destroyed eggs differing from her own in size and colour. Ducks.—The Mallard, or Wild Duck, from which is derived the domestic species, is prevalent throughout Europe, Asia and America. The mallard's most remarkable characteristic is one which sets at defiance the speculations of the most profound ornithologist. The female bird is extremely plain, but the male’s plumage is a splendour of greens and browns, and blues. In the spring, however, the plumage of the male begins to fade, and in two months every vestige of his finery has departed, and he is not to be distinguished from his soberly-garbed wife. Then the greens, and the tr>ies, and the browns begin to bud out again, and by October he is once more a gorgeous drake. It is to be regretted that domestication has seriously deterio- rated the moral character of the duck. In a wild state, he is a faithful husband, desiring but one wife, and devoting himself to her ; but no sooner is he domesticated than he becomes poly- gamous, and makes nothing of owning ten or a dozen wives at a time. As regards the females, they are much more solicitous for the welfare of their progeny in a wild state than a tame. Should a tame duck’s duckling get into mortal trouble, its mother will just signify her sorrrow by an extra “ quack ” or so, and a flapping of her wings ; but touch a wild duck’s little one if you dare 1 she will buffet you with her broad wings, and dash boldly at your face with her stout beak. If you search for her nest amongst the long grass, she will try no end of manoeuvres to lure ’you from it, her favourite ruse bring to pretend lameness, to delude you into the notion that you have only to pursue her vigorously, and her capture is certain ; so you persevere for half a mile or so, and then she is up and away, leaving you to find your way back to the nest if you can. Among the ancients, opinion was at variance respecting the wholesomeness and digestibility of goose- flesh, but concerning the excellence of the duck all parties are agreed; indeed, they not only assigned to duck-meat the palm for exquisite flavour and delicacy, they even attributed to it medicinal powers of the highest order. Not only the Roman medical writers of the time make mention of it, but likewise the philosophers of the period. Plutarch assures us that Cato pre- served his whole household in health, in a season when plague and disease were rife, through dieting them on roast duck.