114 Introduction to Cookery. 235. Fish in England and France.—Here, again, art is the hand- maiden of nature. The sea supplies us so plentifully that we neglect or disdain fresh-water fish, upon which our neighbours expend much skill and pains in cookery. Very few English people have eaten a carp, though our lakes and ponds contain many ; yet in every French cookery-book are to be found recipes plainly showing that a carp is intended to be served at dinners of some preten- sion. We boil or broil our salmon and trout and North Sea cod, and possibly we do well; but who should boil a pike, a carp or a roach would find he had made a mistake. Again, the facility with which perfectly fresh fish is sent to any part of our country makes us less dependent upon sharp and highly-flavoured sauces. 236. Vegetables in En gland and France.— As for vegetable cookery, in which we must confess ourselves entirely beaten, we need not go far to find a reason for that excellence in the custom of all Catholic countries to fast from meat once a week, which has necessitated the practice of serving vegetables in some way less wasteful and less objectionable than the English methods. 237. Fuel.—The relative cost of fuel in the two countries has also had much to do in stereotyping the national cookery. Coals have been cheap and plentiful, and have accordingly been used with profusion. It is quite recently that we have begun to use close stoves ; and only a few years ago all our cooking was done over or before the fire. Anyone reading, a French cookery-book will be struck by the sparing way in which the use of an oven is prescribed. In an English book it is assumed that nothing is so easy as to shut anything in the oven and take it out when it is done—and probably the assumption is correct. If we had to do all our cooking with wood, we also must become economical; but wood, even in England, does not cost as much as wood costs in many countries, where coals for domestic use are practically unknown. Count Rumford’s action in the matter of stoves was received with some scorn, though he died only in 1814. It used to be said of him that he would cook his dinner by the smoke from his neighbour’s chimney. The wasted fuel that escapes as smoke would cook not one but many dinners. It is a truism to say that France, pressed by circumstances, has accomplished much in the region of cookery. France has achieved the highest results in luxurious cookery ; and to the thrift of her peasantry we must look for the begin- nings of the French economy in cookery that has become almost proverbial. Luxury with economy is the highest praise in cookery. 238. French Names.—In the present edition, French names—either the accepted or the literal translation—have been added to many of the dishes. Those of distinct English origin remain as they are. Our readers can now write a menu in either language. We may add a general recommendation to write menus in English for English diners. What can be more out of place than to write a French menu for guests who do not understand a word of that language, and before whom it is proposed to set dishes having a well-known English name. A large number of vegetable recipes and soups have been added. Some well-known French entrees also appear for the first time in this edition. 239. Garnishing.—In the matter of garnishing the English cook has much to learn. She puts food on a dish, and thinks she has done all. Boiled greens, boiled potato, melted butter, each in a tureen of its own, are her only resources. But the French cook sends no dish to table without appropriate accompaniments. It is impossible to teach garnishing by print. It cannot even be taught in practice to anyone without the personal qualifications of neat fingers and a good eye for colour.