380 General Observations on Quadrupeds. airy place. The larder is the only room in the house that should always face due north, so that the sun never comes in. There should be thorough ventilation, and no direct communication with the drains, such as an untrapped sink in the floor, which is very commonly seen. The joint should be hung up, not laid on a dish or plate. It should be wiped ; and to dust it over with flour or flour and pepper is a good plan. The kernel, often seen in the fat of the round or silver- side, and the marrow from the backbone, should always be removed, as it taints before the joint itself. Meat from a sickly animal, or one that has been over-driven or bruised, does not keep well. All old meat keeps better than young. 858 Tainted Meat.—If meat is slightly tainted, the best thing to do is to wash it in water containing vinegar or some other non-poisonous disinfectant : permanganate of potash is, perhaps, the best to use. Another plan is to powder it with charcoal and then wash it. At any rate, it should be roasted, not boiled or stewed, if it is really tainted enough to give it a flavour. It is much better to half-roast or parboil a joint a day or two before it is eaten than to hang it too long, and it is really not hurt by so doing if it is plunged into boiling water, or put down to a very het fire for a few minutes. 859. The General Mode of Slaughtering Oxen in this country is by striking them a smart blow with a hammer or poleaxe on the head, a little above the eyes. By this means, when the blow is skilfully given, the beast is brought down at one I 'ow, and, to prevent recovery, a cane is generally inserted, by which the spinal 1 rd is perforated, which instantly deprives the ox of all sensation of pain. In Spain, and some other countries on the Continent, it is also usual to deprive oxen of life by the operation of pithing or dividing the spinal cord in the neck, close to the back part of the head. This is, in effect, the same mode as is practised in the celebrated Spanish bull-fights by the matador ; and it is instantaneous in depriving the animal of sensation, if the operator be skilful. We hope and believe that those men whose disagreeable duty it is to slaughter the “ beasts of the field ” to provide meat for mankind, inflict as little punishment and cause as little suffering as possible. 860. The Manner in which a Side of Beef is cut up in London is shown in the engraving on page 383. The custom varies in different parts of the country, and in some places no difference is made in price between one joint and another. But this is rare. Meat is sold wholesale at per stone of eight pounds. In the Metropcl . account of the large number of its population possessing the means to indmge in the “ best of everything,” the demand for the most delicate joints ci meat is great; the price, at the same time, being much higher for these than for the other parts. The consequence is that in London the carcass is there divided so as to obtain the greatest quantity of meat on the most esteemed joints. In many places, however, where, from a greater equality in the social condition and habits of the inhabitants, the demand and prices for the different parts of the carcass are more equalised, there is not the same reason for the butcher to cut the best joints so large. The meat on those parts of the animal in which the muscles are least called into action is most tender and succulent ; as, for instance, along the back, from the rump to the hinder part of the shoulder ; whilst the limbs, shoulder, and neck are the toughest, driest, and least esteemed. On page 381 we give an engraving of the animal, with the parts indicated from whence the different joints are cut, followed by a list of their names, their com- parative value, and the way in which they are generally cooked.