Recipes for Cooking Veal. 450 999.—LOIN OF VEAL a la DAUBE. (Fr.—Carr6 de Veau Farci aux Tomates, etc.) Ingredients.—The chump end of a loin of veal, forcemeat, No. 629, a few slices of bacon, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, £ tea- spoonful of whole white pepper, 1 pint of veal stock or water, 5 or 6 green onions. Mode.—Cut off the chump from a loin of veal, and take out the bone ; fill the cavity with forcemeat, No. 629, tie it up tightly, and lay it in a stewpan with the bones and trimmings, and cover the veal with a few slices of bacon. Add the herbs, mace, pepper, and onions, and stock or water; cover the pan with a closely-fitting lid, and simmer for 2 hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. Take out the bacon, herbs and onions; reduce the gravy, if not already thick enough, to a glaze, with which glaze the meat, and serve with tomato, mushroom, or sorrel sauce. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, iod. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1000.—MINCED VEAL WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE. (Fr.—Veau au Bechamel.) (Cold Meat Cookery. Very good.) Ingredients.—The remains of a fillet of veal, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, No. 665, £ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Cut—but do not chop—a few slices of cold roast veal as finely as possible, sufficient to make rather more than 1 lb. weighed after being minced. Make the above proportion of bechamel, by recipe No. 665 ; add the lemon-peel, put in the veal, and let the whole gradually warm through. When it is at the point of simmering, dish it, and garnish with forcemeat balls and fried sippets of bread. Time.—To simmer, 1 minute. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold meat, is. 4d. , Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1001.—MINCED VEAL. (Fr.—Veau a la Creme.) (More Economical.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fillet or loin of veal, rather more than 1 pint of water, 1 onion, £ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, salt and white pepper to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 or 3 young