i88 Recipes for Soups. 384.—POT AU FEU A LA GOUFFE.. {The ordinary Pot au Feu.) Ingredients.—i-i lb. of meat (beef), 2 lb. of bones, 34 quarts of water, 1 oz. of salt, 4.4 oz. of carrots, 44 oz. ot onions, 6 oz. of leeks, f oz. of celery, 1 clove, 4 oz. of turnips, 1 oz. of parsnip. Mode.—Carefully make up the fire, which ought to be kept at a gentle regular heat, and if well made at first will not require remaking during the process. Bone the meat and tie it up with string; break the bones with a chopper, place the bones at the bottom of the stewpan, and put the meat on them, add the water and salt, and make it boil. Care should be taken, in putting on the cover of the stewpan, to leave an opening about the width of an inch: the soup or broth deteriorates through being confined in a vessel tightly closed. As soon as the scum rises, add 4 pint of cold water, and take off the scum with a skimmer. Let the broth boil up three times, and skim three times. After this it ought to be perfectly clear. Wipe the edges of the stewpan carefully and add the vegetables ; this will stop the boiling. As soon as the broth boils up again, place the stewpan at the side of the fire, when cooking it on open range; if the pot au feu is made over a close range, it is only necessary to draw it aside, so that a third of the stewpan only is over the fire. Place cinders on the fire to subdue the heat, and keep a regular though gentle fire for three hours. The meat is then removed. The broth should now be tasted, to see if it is of good savour as regards the quantity of salt; if more salt is required, it must be added only to the soup when in the tureen. After the meat is removed, all the fat must be taken off the broth ; this is easily done while it is gently boiling on the fire. Time.—Simmer gently 3 hours. Average Cost, IS. for this quantity. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 385.-A BETTER POT AU FEU. ' Subjoined are the quantities of ingredients necessary for a better, richer Pot au feu : Ingredients.—3 lbs. of meat, I lb. of bones, 54 quarts of water, 2 oz. of salt, 10 oz. of carrots, 10 oz. of onions, 12 oz. of leeks, x oz. of celery, 2 cloves, 9 oz. of turnips, if oz. of parsnips. The quantities required for this better pot au feu are nearly double, in every case, those for the commoner bouillon. It will be observed, how- ever, there is only half as much again water to this double quantity of meat, vegetables, &c. Consequently, the bouillon will be of a better quality. The quantities being larger, the time necessary for its boiling