Curried Rabbit. 657 Pour in the stock or water, cover with crust, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. During the time the pie is baking, shake it 2 or 3 times, to assist in thickening the gravy, and serve very hot. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—In full season in November. 1365.—SALMI OF LARKS. (Fr.—Salmis de Mauviettes.) Ingredients.—2 dozen larks, 3 shalots, 1^ glass of port or claret, 1 oz. of butter, a little flour, the juice of £ a lemon, cayenne and salt to taste, 1 pint of good gravy or stock, not highly seasoned with vegetables. Roast or bake the larks. Mode.— Put the butter in a stewpan and thicken with a little flour; put the onion into the stock and make it hot, pour it on the butter, boil up and strain. Add the wine, lemon-juice and seasoning, and put in the larks just to get hot through. Serve in a dish deep enough to hold the gravy. Time.—£ hour to make the gravy. Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1366.-CURRIED RABBIT. (Fr.—Lapin au Kari.) (Captain Tongue's Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 3 dessertspoonfuls of curry-powder, 6 large onions, 5 cloves of garlic, £ a lemon, ^ lb. of butter, 1 pint of milk, £ a tea- spoonful of ground cloves, % a teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—Empty, skin and wash the rabbit, and cut it up neatly. Mince the garlic, and cut the onions in fine slices; fry these in a quarter of a pound of butter until of a light brown colour ; rub the curry-powder well into the rabbit, and fry it in the other quarter of a pound of butter till it has attained a bright gold colour. Then place all in a stewpan, with the boiling milk and salt; let it stew slowly until the liquid is reduced to a third of the quantity. Half an hour before serving, add the cloves and the jn’oe of half a lemon. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 2s. Sd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable, September to February. The Common or Wild Rahbit.—Warrens, or enclosures, are frequently made in favourable localities, and some of them are so large as to comprise 2,000 acres. The common wild rabbit is of a grey colour, and is esteemed the best for the purposes of food. Its skin is valuable as an WILD RABBITS.