86 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. 179. Keen’s JPatent Ventilating Cover for Kettles, etc.—When a kettle is completely filled with water, the steam that is generated when the water within it boils must of necessity find means of escape or drive out some of the water. When the cover is loose and easy the steam will lift the cover and escape thus ; but when the cover is tight the expansion of water and the genera- tion of steam force some of the water out of the spout, and the result is that, until enough of the water has boiled away, there is a continued welling of water from the spout of the kettle, which drops on the hot plate of the range, and is quickly converted by the heat of the plate into steam. A kettle, however, that is fitted with Keen's Patent Ventilating Cover will never boil over or be subject to rattling of the cover by the rising steam, or the ejectment of water through the spout. As an invention the Ventilating Cover is remarkably simple, and the only wonder is that no one has ever thought of it before. A round hole is made in the centre of the cover, and over this a plate, considerably larger than the hole, is placed, having its edges bent downwards towards the upper surface of the cover, and sup- ported at a distance of about £ in. above the cover by short metal standards. A representation of the kettle, which will explain the construction of the cover, is given in page 85. Kettles with the patent cover, of capacities ranging from 4 to 16 pints, are supplied at prices ranging from is. nd. to 10s. 6d. each. The inven- tion—which consists merely in providing a hole in the cover, which hole is itself covered and hidden from view by a smaller cover slightly raised above it—-is applied to steak and bacon dishes, dish covers, metal coverettes for placing over cheese, butter, &c., milk cans, and all kitchen utensils used for boiling, including saucepans, milk saucepans, boiling pots, stewpans, fish-kettles, &c. Culinary utensils fitted with the ventilating cover are sold by all ironmongers. The ad- vantages to be derived from the use of the ventilating cover in the kitchen are :— Firstly, that water in vessels thus fitted cannot boil over, and may be left for this reason without attention ; and secondly, that all impurities generated in cooking are allowed to escape, thus rendering the food more wholesome, and enabling it to be better cooked. In the pantry it is equally useful, for milk will keep sweet longer in a can fitted with the ventilating cover than in an uncovered vessel or one covered in the ordinary way ; and butter, cream, cheese, fruit, meat, game and fish will keep for double the time when placed under a ventilating dish cover or coverette. 180. Coffee pot.—When well made, coffee, perhaps, is the most delicious and refreshing of all the infusions that are made for household use, but the goodness of coffee very often depends on the construction of the vessel in which it is made, and it is most desirable to use one in which the aromatic oil of the berry developed in the process of roasting is not driven off by boiling, on the one hand, which invariably spoils coffee, or not made sufficiently perceptible by endeavouring to make it at too low a temperature, which is too often the case when coffee is prepared by percolation in a coffee biggin. In Ash’s Kaffee Kanne, invented by Mr. Ash, 301-303, Oxford Street, London, W., either contingency is happily avoided by the peculiar construction of this coffee pot, in which the coffee, when making, is surrounded by a jacket of boiling water, and thus kept at such a temperature that the valuable principle in which the aroma lies is not driven off, but gradually and continuously brought out, thus increasing to a wonderful extent the flavour and fragrance of the drink. By means of the Kaffee Kanne coffee can be made to perfection in so short a time as two minutes, which shows how easy and rapid the process is when performed by means of this utensil. The engravings given in page 85 afford illustrations of a plain form of the Kaffee Kanne in block tin, with electro-plated top, a more elaborate form on a handsome stand, and an ornamental urn-like form, in bronze, both with lamp