254 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 540.—BAKED SEA-BREAM. (Fr.—Breme de mer Rotie.) Ingredients.—1 bream, seasoning to taste of salt, pepper and Cayenne ; J lb. of butter. Mode.—Well wash the bream, but do not remove the scales, and wipe away all moisture with a nice dry cloth. Season it inside and out with salt, pepper, cayenne, and lay it in a baking-dish. Place the butter, in small pieces, upon the fish, and bake for rather more than half an hour. To stuff the fish before baking will be found a great improvement. Time.—Rather more than 4 hour. Average Cost, 4d. to 6d. per lb. Seasonable in summer, but may be pro- cured all the year round. Note.—This fish may be broiled over a nice clear fire, and served with a good brown gravy or white sauce, or it may be stewed in wine. The Sea-Bream.—This is an abundant fish in Cornwall, and it is frequently found in the fish-market of Hastings the sea-bream. during the summer months, but it is not in much esteem. Mr. Yarrell’s Recipe.—“When thoroughly cleansed, the fish should be wiped dry, but none of the scales should be taken off. In this state it should be broiled, turning it often, and if the skin cracks, flour it a little to keep the outer case entire. When on table, the whole skin and scales turn off without difficulty, and the muscle beneath, saturated in its own natural juices, which the outside covering has retained, will be of good flavour." 541.—TO DRESS SHAD. (^V.-Alose Grille.) Ingredients.—1 shad, oil, pepper and salt. Mode.—Scale, empty and wash the fish carefully, and make two or three incisions across the back. Season it with pepper and salt, and let it remain in oil for half an hour. Broil it on both sides over a clear fire, and serve with caper sauce. This fish is much esteemed by the French, and by them is considered excellent. Time.—Nearly 1 hour. Average Cost, from 6d. per lb. Seasonable from April to June. The Shad.—This is a salt-water fish, but is held in little esteem. It enters our rivers to spawn in May, and gteat numbers are taken opposite the Isle of Dogs, in the Thames. THE SHAD. 542.—BAKED SHAD. (Fr.-Alose.) Ingredients.—1 shad, \ lb. of salt pork, 1 oz. of butter, parsley, ^ 02. bread-crumbs, flour, pepper, salt, 1 glass of port.