Public Obligations of Occupiers. 1629 Street music in the Metropolis is subject to special provisions. The house- holder or resident annoyed, or his servant or representative, must order the musician to desist. If the order be disregarded the only remedy of the com- plainant is to procure a policeman, to give the stroller (if still to be found) into the custody of the policeman, to there and then accompany the policeman and the accused to the nearest police-station, where the complainant must sign the charge-sheet, and enter into a recognizance to appear and give evidence before the magistrate at the hearing of the case, probably the next day. Failing such an elaborate course of proceeding, the stroller cannot be otherwise dealt with. In case of the stroller’s conviction the penalty is not more than 40s., or imprison- ment for three days. 3713. Public Obligations of Occupiers.—Within the Metropolitan district occupiers of houses are under obligations to the public authorities, of which the following are the most prominent instances :— Every newly-built house must be provided with a pit or vessel, with proper coverings, for the deposit of ashes and house refuse. The penalty for non-com- pliance is £20. No one is allowed to collect or carry away any ashes or house refuse except the dustmen appointed by the local authorities. Penalty for so collecting and carrying, £5. For allowing a chimney to be on fire the penalty is £1 ; but if arising from neglect or wilful default of any person, the amount may be recovered from such person. Discharging fire-arms of a greater calibre than a common fowling-piece within three hundred yards of any dwelling-house, after being warned by the person objecting, involves a penalty of £5. The following offences involve a penalty for each of £2 :— Discharging fire-arms or throwing any missile, to danger of any person. Beating, in any thoroughfare, any carpet, rug, or mat, except door-mats before eight in the morning. Throwing any dirt, litter, offal, or rubbish in any thoroughfare, or so that the same may get into any sewer, except litter in case of sickness to prevent noise, sand or litter to prevent slipping, or litter to prevent freezing of pipes in time of frost. Putting or keeping up any awning so as to annoy passengers. Keeping pigs to front of a street or road without proper fence, or keeping them anywhere so as to be a nuisance. Neglecting to sweep and cleanse footways and watercourses adjoining premises. The occupier is liable, but, if there be no occupier, the owner is liable. %* This is the only authority under which the Metropolitan police require snow to be cleared from the footways at the fronts of houses, though there is no mention of snow, and owners of unoccupied houses are seldom or never called upon to perform their duty in this respect. Leaving open any vault or cellar or underground room without sufficient fence. Leaving open any pit at night without sufficient light. The following offences, calculated to annoy or injure householders, are each liable to a penalty of £2 :— Causing any vehicle to stand longer than necessary for loading or unloading. Driving or standing on any footway any vehicle or animal. Rolling or carrying any cask, tub, hoop, wheel, ladder, plank, showboard or placard upon footway.