Remuneration of Solicitors. 1623 vailed, with their long-drawn words and phrases, repeated over and over again, to the endless perplexity of non-professional readers. Instead of all that, a writing of a dozen or twenty lines legally suxfices fora transaction which would formerly have required a square yard of parchment and some thousands of words, which have no longer any use or significance. 3696. Remuneration of Solicitors.—Under the old system, every solicitor was interested in making documents as long as he could decently make them, because he was allowed to charge according to the quantity of writing to be done. He was also interested in having as many interviews and processes and consequent delays as he could contrive to have, because he was allowed to charge each act of his as a separate item of costs. All that is now done away with ; the solicitor, even more than the client, is directly interested in having as little to do in the matter as possible, and to get the business completed in the shortest possible time. As compensation to solicitors for the numerous items for which they were formerly allowed to charge, each solicitor is entitled to a fixed sum for every completed transaction, and, unless before the business is entered upon, or prior to any subsequent stage of it, he expressly stipulates to be paid extra on account of exceptional circumstances, and the client assents in writing to such extra or special payment, any more than the prescribed charge is illegal ; with this proviso, that an agreement to accept a stated sum, on condition that the business is carried through, and to forego payment if it be not carried through, or abiding any event, is void. The prescribed charges which a solicitor may make in connection with a pur- chase are governed by the amount of the purchase money, as next shown :— - <’•) (2.) For the 2nd and 3rd ;£ 1,000. (3.) For the 4th and each subsequent ^1,000 up to £ 10,000. (4.) For each subsequent ,£1,000 up to £1,000,000. £, 1,000 Purchaser’s solicitor for negotiating a purchase of Per £100. Per £100. Per £100. Per £100. s. s. s. d. s. d. property by private contract n for investigating title to freehold, copyhold or leasehold property, and preparing and completing con- veyance (including perusal and 20 20 10 0 5 0 completion of contract, if any) 30 20 10 0 S 0 When the purchaser has previously agreed with the vendor upon the terms and amount, the solicitor is not entitled to charge for the negotiation ; but if any matter of detail concerning the negotiation is referred to the solicitor to complete, he may be entitled to his full charge as though he had conducted the negotiation all through. Journeys from home, which are strictly necessary, and not stipulated for by express agreement, are chargeable extra, per day of seven hours, five guineas ; for less than seven hours, 15s. per hour. Fixed charges are also prescribed for every form of business where there is no dispute or legal contention. Whether the charges be those prescribed, as before stated, or under any fecial agreement, the client is entitled to submit the amount to a taxing-master, who is empowered to reduce the amount if he consider there is ground for doing so. 3697. Responsibility of (Solicitor’s.--Notwithstanding the fixing of the charges of solicitors, every solicitor is liable to his client for the consequences of