875 Cascerole of Rice. Sufficient for a large dish of curry. Seasonable at any time. Rice, in the native rough state, with the husk on, is called paddy, both in India and America, and it will keep better, and for a much longer time, in this state, than after the husk has been removed ; besides which, prepared rice is apt to become dirty from rubbing about in the voyage on board ship, and in the warehouses. It is sometimes brought to England in the shape of paddy, and the husk detached here. 1862.-TO BOIL RICE FOR CURRIES, &.c. (Soyer’s Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of the best Carolina rice, 2 quarts of water, oz. of butter, a little salt. Mode.—Wash the rice well in two waters ; make two quarts of water boiling, and throw the rice into it; boil it until three-parts done, then drain it on a sieve. Butter the bottom and the sides of a stewpan, put in the rice, place the lid on tightly, and set it by the side of the fire until the rice is perfectly tender, occasionally shaking the pan to prevent its sticking. Prepared thus, every grain should be separate and white. Either dish it separately, or place it round the curry as a border. Time.—1 j to 25 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 2 moderate-sized curries. Seasonable at any time. 1863.—BUTTERED RICE. Ingredients.—i lb of rice, pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, grated nutmeg or pounded cinnamon. Mode.—Wash and pick the rice, drain and put it into a saucepan with the milk; let it swell gradually, and, when tender, pour off the milk ; stir in the butter, sugar, and nutmeg or cinnamon, and, when the butter is thoroughly melted, and the whole is quite hot, serve. After the milk is poured off, be particular that the rice does not burn : to prevent this, do not cease stirring it. Time.—About f hour to swell the rice. Average Cost, yi. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Rice was held in great esteem by the ancients ; they considered it as a very beneficial food for the chest; therefore it was recommended in cases of consumption, and to persons subject to spitting of blood. 1864.—s AVOU R Y CASSEROLE OF RICE. (Or Rice Border for RagoOts, Fricassees, &c.) Ingredients.— ij lb. of rice, 3 pints of weak stock or broth, 2 slices of fat ham, 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—A casserole of rice, when made in a mould, is not such a diffi-