Dried Vegetables. 727 and the vegetables are often thrown away. All vegetables are best when they are grown quickly, in which case they have less woody fibre. Sometimes light is ex- cluded, for light leads to the developement of colouring matter, and also cf the characteristic principles of the plant, which is often unpleasantly pungent and occasionally unwholesome. 1521. Fresh Vegetables. —All green vegetables need to be eaten fresh. A large number of those sold in towns are plucked days before, full of sap, and stacked in heaps under circumstances the most favourable to fermentation, which does not fail to commence, and sufficiently accounts for the unpleasant results often experienced after eating cabbages, &c., in such a state. 1522. Dried Vegetables. — Many vegetables are now sold dried and compressed. Sliced carrots, turnips, cauliflower, &c., suitable for julienne soups, or stews are often useful to the housewife when such vegetables are out of season and dear, and also when economy of time is necessary, but they are not as well flavoured as the fresh vegetable. Granulated potato, sold in packets, and chiefly intended for use on board ship, is a preparation that might be useful in the same way. It only requires to have boiling water poured on it, and in ten minutes is ready to serve as mashed potato, or to be made into fritters, &c. 1523. Pulses afford t-he most nourishing food that we know. Lentils, beans and peas in point of nourishment stand in the order in which we have placed them, though very near together, lentils heading the list with 14 per cent, of water and 24 per cent, of casein. The well-known Revalenta, or Ervalenta, Arabica. contains lentil flour, generally mixed with barley or other meal, and salt. But it is sold at many times the price of any of its ingredients. The celebrated sausage served out to the German troops during the war of 1870-71, was made of peas, bacon and onions. Each one weighed a pound, and could be made into soup or eaten in sausage form. They were easily carried and kept, and contained the requisite proportions of the various kinds of food, but we are told that the men tired of it after a few days. It appears to be the fact that the pulses cannot be used as the only flesh-forming food, and taken even in moderation they disagree with some persons. Generally, however, they are relished if they are so prepared that the tough skin is removed, and for this reason there is no way of cooking them more suitable than as puree soups, where they require for nourishment’s sake no addition of meat, owing to the amount of albuminoid, which is far greater than in meat itself. They do require added fat. Green peas are more digestible but less nourishing than dried or even than full-grown peas, which require prolonged boiling to make them digestible, and which, when old, no amount of boiling will soften ; indeed, the longer they are boiled the harder they become. Bi-carbonate of soda, usually added to green vegetables to preserve the colour, at the same time softens the cellulose. Directions are generally given not to add it in the case of young peas, which require to be served whole, but it is a useful addition to old green-peas, or to any of the dried pulses. Many varieties of dried beans are sold, and all, considered as food, have much the same value. French beans are eaten in an unripe state, pod and young seeds together, in which state they more nearly approach to other green vegetables than to the dried pulses. Lentils are most often seen in two kinds, the orange coloured Egyptian and the browner German lentil. The former is cheaper, the latter better flavoured. Pea and lentil flour is often adulterated with other flour, which diminishes its food value. -< 1524. Salttids. generally contain no flesh-forming or heat-giving material, but they are valuable because they introduce into the system large quantities of salins