Vegetable Soups. 159 1 head of celery, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft water, any bones left from roast meat, 2 quarts of common stock, or liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, or water. Mode.—Put the peas to soak overnight in soft water, and remove all those that float on the top. Boil them in the water till tender enough to pulp; then add the ingredients mentioned above, and simmer for 2 hours, stirring it occasionally. Pass the whole through a sieve, skim well, season, and serve with toasted bread cut in dice, and powdered mint. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, 8d. per quart. Seasonable all the year round, but more suitable for cold weather. Sufficient for 12 persons. 320—PEA SOUP. (Fr.—Pur6e de Pois.) {Inexpensive.) Ingredients.—2 onions, 4 carrots, the outside leaves of a head of celery, 1 quart of split peas, a little mint shred fine; 1 tablespoonful of coarse brown sugar, salt and pepper to taste, 4 quarts of water, or liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, a little butter, dripping or fat bacon. Mode.—Fry the vegetables for 10 minutes in a little butter or dripping, previously cutting them up in small pieces ; pour the water on them, and add the peas. Let them simmer for nearly 3 hours, or until the peas are thoroughly done. If this or any other pulse soup has to be made in a hurry, put in a pinch of soda. Add the sugar, seasoning and mint; boil for 1 of an hour, and serve. Time.—3^ hours. Average Cost, 2d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for X2 persons. 321.—POTATO SOUP. (Fv.—Puree de Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—r onion, r stick of celery, 1 turnip, 4 lbs. of mealy pota- toes, pepper and salt to taste, 3 quarts of stock, No. 273; or milk and water. Mode.—Boil the potatoes in the stock with the other vegetables; mash them smoothly, that no lumps remain, and pass it through a sieve, adding more stock or nnlk if necessary ; season, and simmer for five minutes. Skim well, and serve with fried bread. Soups of any white vegetables .may be made in this way. Time.—hour. Average Cost, <yi. per quart. Seasonable from September fg March. Sufficient for 12 persons, ... . .