364 Various Modes of Cooking Meat. and season it, and, after carrying it some time in their caps, eat it. This, they declare, is the best way of serving it up. 810. Subsequently to the Croat Mode, which, doubtless, was in fashion in the earlier ages of the world, fire was discovered. This was an acci- dent ; for fire is not, although we are accustomed to call it so, an element, or spontaneous. Many savage nations have been found utterly ignorant of it, and many races had no other way of dressing their food than by exposing it to the rays of the sun. 811. The Inhabitants of the Marian Islands, which were discovered in 1521, had no idea of fire. Never was astonishment greater than theirs when they first saw it, on the descent of Magellan, the navigator, on one of their isles. At first they thought it a kind of animal that fixed itself to and fed upon wood. Some of them, who approached too near, being burnt, the rest were terrified, and durst only look upon it at a distance. They were afraid, they said, of being bit, or lest that dreadful animal should wound with his violent respirations and dreadful breath ; for these were the first notions formed of the heat and flame. Such, too, probably, were the notions the Greeks originally formed of them. 812. Fire having been discovered, mankind endeavoured to make use of it for drying and afterwards for cooking their meat ; but they were a consider- able time before they hit upon proper and commodious methods of employing it in the preparation of their food. 813. Meat, then, placed on burning fuel was found better than when raw ; it had more firmness, was eaten with less difficulty, and the ozma- zome, being condensed by the carbonisation, gave it a pleasing perfume and flavour. Still, however, the meat cooked on the coal would become somewhat befouled, certain portions of the fuel adhering to it. This disadvantage was remedied by passing spits through it, and placing it a suitable height above the burning fuel. Thus grilling was invented ; and it is well known that, simple as is this mode of cookery, yet all meat cooked in this way is richly and plea- santly flavoured. In Homer’s time the art of cookery had not advanced much beyond this; for we read in the “ Iliad,” how the great Achilles and his friend Patroclus regaled the three Grecian leaders on bread, wine and broiled meat. It is noticeable, too, that Homer does not speak of boiled meat anywhere in his poems. Later, however, the Jews, coming out of their captivity in Egypt, had made much greater progress. They undoubtedly possessed kettles; and in one of these, Esau’s mess of pottage, for which he sold his birthright, must have been prepared. Having thus briefly traced a history of Gastronomical Progresses, we will now proceed to describe the various methods of cooking meat and make a few observations on the chemical changes which occur in each of the opera- tions. 814. Mode of Cooking Meat in this Country. Broiling, plain boiling, roasting and baking are the usual methods of cooking animal food. To explain the philosophy of these simple operations, we must advert to the effects that are produced by heat on the principal constituents of flesh. When finely chopped mutton or beef is soaked for some time in a small quantity of clean water, and then subjected to slight pressure, the juice of the meat is extracted, and there is left a white, tasteless residue, consisting chiefly of muscular fibres. When this residue is heated to between i8oQ and 200° Fahrenheit, the fibres shrink together and become hard and horny. The influence of an elevated temperature on the soluble extract of flesh is not less remarkable. When the watery infusion, which