Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen, 58 THE UTENSILS OP THE KITCHEN. 96. Cooking : what it is.—Broadly speaking cooking may be regarded as an operation that is performed on any article fit for food by the application of heat—generally fire heat—through an intervening medium, which medium must be either water or air. Accepting this definition, cooking is of two kinds, namely, boiling and roasting, in the former of which heat is communicated to and acts on the article to be cooked through the medium of water, and in the latter through the atmospheric air, which pervades all space as far as we are immediately concerned with it, enveloping ever)' material body that we can see and handle, and which, in coo'-ing by roasting, conveys the heat from the source of heat to the material on which its action is desired. There are, then, two great operations included under the general terms cooking ; namely, Boiling and Roasting. 97. Soiling and its Branches.—Each of these great and principal operations in cooking, however, have their branches or subdivisions, for boiling is divisible into : (i) Boiling pure and simple, in hot water, as when a round of beef, a leg of mutton, or a ham is, as we call it, boiled; (2) Stewing, which is a modification of boiling, the action of the heat through the intervening medium, water or stock, being rendered less intense by the further removal of the vessel in which the stewing is performed from the source of heat, but being generally prolonged; and (3) Frying, which, after all, is really boiling in a fatty medium instead of water, although the result is more like that which is obtained by roasting. Simmering, which must not be passed over unnoticed, is merely a less violent form of boiling, the action of the heat being modified, as in stewing, so as to produce a more gentle transference of the heated particles of water from the sides of the vessel to the centre and surface of the fluid than the hurried rush that is noticeable in boiling. 98. Roasting and its Branches.— Again, roasting, in which the heat passes from the source of heat to the material to be cooked, through the intervening and surrounding air, may be subdivided into (1) Roasting proper, performed before an open fire ; (2) Baking, or roasting in an oven, applicable to meat, bread, or pastry ; (3) Broiling or Grilling, in which the food to be cooked is laid on a metal grid, or frame with transverse bars, or suspended before the fire within a double frame; and (4) Toasting, which is analogous to broiling, although the latter term is more commonly applied to the browning of the surface of a slice of bread, muffin, crumpet, &c., and the former to the treatment of meat, bacon, &c. It will be convenient, therefore, to notice the principal utensils used in the kitchen in relation to the operations of boiling and roasting^ with their sub-divisions; and to take in a third section all utensils that are auxiliary to cooking and used in the preparation of food for cooking, and occasionally, as in the case of baking-dishes, patty-pans, &c., in the operations themselves. I. Utensils Used in Boiling, &c. 99. Saucepans.—A saucepan is for the most part a circular vessel, rather wider at the bottom than at the top, furnished with a long handle, a lid or cover, and sometimes, in the smaller kinds, with a lip for the better and easier trans- ference of its contents to another vessel. Saucepans of various kinds and boilers, closely allied to them in form, and which serve much the same uses, rank among the most important articles in the kitchen, for very little cooking can be done without them. There are many kinds and varieties of saucepans, and illustrations are given of a few of those that are generally found to be the most useful. Saucepans are made in block-tin ; cast-iron, tinned inside ; cast-iron.