Recipes for German Cookery. X2g2 and simmer gently for hour. Shortly before dishing, add 4 oz. of grated 2936.—CHICKENS. {Ordinary German Fashion.) Ingredients.—2 chickens, lardoons, French rolls, bread-crumbs, 3 oz. of butter, 1 middle-sized onion, 1 egg, parsley, thyme, grated lemon-peel, and 1 small cup of cream. Mode.—Stuff the birds with a stuffing made of French rolls, a little butter, egg, fine-shredded onion, parsley, thyme, grated lemon-peel; next lard and bread-crumb them, placing a piece of fat over the breast, that they may not become too brown. Place the chickens in a stewpan with i oz. of butter, leave uncovered for a short time, then cover and bake tor i| hour. Half an hour before serving, add the cream, and baste thoroughly over a hotter fire. Time.—1| hour. Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year round; scarce in spring. 2937 -SAUERKRAUT. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of sauerkraut, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of lard, 2 oz. of suet, grated potato, juniper berries, caraway seeds, salt. Mode.—Melt the butter, ?ard and suet in a stewpan, with a little water, salt if necessary, and, tied in a little sauerkraut. bag, a few juniper berries and cara- way seeds ; add the sauerkraut, cover close, and boil quickly for i£ hour. Before serving, thicken with grated potato or boiled peas. Time.—hour. Average Cost, 7d., without the sauerkraut. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable in the late autumn and winter. Note.—Sauerkraut is purchased in England in small barrels. It is simply cabbage cut very fine, pressed into exquisitely clean wooden barrels, with or without salt—the former keeping longer—and allowed to ferment, with a cloth dipped in a solution of spices tied over the mouth of the barrel. 2938.—STEWED ASPARAGUS. Ingredients.—100 heads of asparagus, 3 oz. of butter, 4 oz. of grated rusk or bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, a little mace, sa.lt. Mode.—Scrape the asparagus, cut them twice across into equal parts, lay the heads aside, and boil the other parts till half done. Next put in a stewpan 3 oz. of butter, a little mace and salt, then all the asparagus,