ii8o Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs. 2629.—EGGS WITH WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—CEufs a la Tripe.) Ingredients.—8 eggs, £ pint of Bechamel sauce No. 665, dessertspoon- ful of finely-minced parsley. Mode.—Boil the eggs hard ; put them into cold water, peel them, take out the yolks whole, and shred the whites. Make three-quarters of a pint of Bechamel sauce by recipe No. 665 ; add the parsley, ajid, when the sauce is quite hot, put the yolks of the eggs into the middle of the dish, and the shred whites round them ; pour over the sauce, and garnish with leaves of puff-paste or fried croutons. There is no necessity for putting the eggs into the saucepan with the Bechamel; the sauce, being quite hot, will warm the eggs sufficiently. Time.—10 minutes to boil the eggs. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2630.—MUMBLED EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs Brouilles.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, 4 slices of buttered toast, 2 oz. of fresh butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, £ a teaspoonful of salt, pepper. Mode.—Lay the buttered toast in a hot dish before the fireplace, the butter and salt in a delicately-clean saucepan on the fire ; break the eggs quickly on the butter, and stir one way with a silver spoon until a change is seen in the mixture, which solidifies; when remove it from the fire, still stirring, and spread upon the buttered toast, in four portions, lightly pepper, and serve at once very hot. Chopped ham or tongue, anchovy or tomatoes may be added. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—A little practice will enable the cook to ascertain the exact moment for removing the saucepan from the fire ; if taken off too soon, the mixture will run ; if kept on the fire a minute too long it will harden and be spoilt. It should be of the consistency of good butter. 2631.—EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. (Fr. — CEufs aux Champignons.) Ingredients.—12 button mushrooms, 2 onions, 6 eggs, £ pint of good gravy, pepper and salt, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Slice, fry and drain the mushrooms and onions. Boil the eggs hard and slice them, white and yolk separately ; add the butter and seasoning, and simmer the whole in a half pint of good gravy. Put in the