772 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Sufficient.—i lb. of mashed potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Mashed potatoes may be made into the form of apples, pears, &c., by being moulded with the hand well floured ; a clove should be inserted for the eye of the fruit, and a piece of parsley stem for the stalk. Cheese or cold meat may be added. 1614.—VERY THIN MASHED POTATOES. (Fr.—Puree de Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of mashed potatoes allow £ pint of good broth or stock, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Boil the potatoes, well drain them and pound them smoothly in a mortar, or beat them up with a fork; add the stock or broth, and rub the potatoes through a sieve. Put the puree into a very clean saucepan with the butter; stir it well over the fire until thoroughly hot, and it will then be ready to serve. A purde should be rather thinner than mashed potatoes, and is a delicious accompaniment to delicately-broiled mutton cutlets. Cream or milk may be substituted for the broth when the latter is not at hand. A casserole of potatoes, which is often used for ragouts instead of rice, is made by mashing potatoes rather thickly, placing them on a dish, and making an opening in the centre. After having browned the potatoes in the oven, the dish should be wiped clean, and the ragouts or fricassee poured in. Time.—About £ hour to boil the potatoes; 6 or 7 minutes to warm the puree. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 1 lb. of cooked potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Varieties of the Potato.—These are very numerous. “ They differ,’’ says an authority, “ in their leaves and bulk of haulm ; in the colour of the skin of the tubers; in the colour of the interior, compared with that of the skin ; in the time of ripening; in being farinaceous, glutinous, or watery; in tasting agreeably or disagreeably; in cooking readily or tediously ; in the length of the subterraneous stolones to which the tubers are attached ; in blossoming or not blossoming ; and, finally, in the soil which they prefer.” The earliest varieties grown in fields are—the Early Kidney, the Nonsuch, the Early Shaw, and the Early Champion. This last is the most generally cultivated round London ; it is both mealy and hardy. The sweet potato is but rarely eaten in Britain;, but in America it is often served at table, 1615.—POTATO PATTIES. (Fr.—Souffles de Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—| lb. of mealy potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, £ pint of milk, 6 eggs, bread-crumbs. Mode.— Rub the potatoes through a sieve and mix them with a little mi SWEET POTATO. and is there very highly esteemed.