776 Recipes for Conking Vegetables. than vegetables in their raw state, is more wholesome ; for salads, how- ever they may be compounded, when eaten uncooked, prove to :ome people indigestible. Tarragon, chervil, burnet, and boiled onion, may be added to the above salad with advantage, as also slices of cold meat, poultry, or fish. Seasonable from July to October. Acetarious Vegetables.—By the term Acetarious Vegetables is expressed a numerous class of plants, of various culture and habit, which are principally used as salads, pickles, and condi- ments. They are to be considered rather as articles of comparative luxury than as ordinary food, and are more desirable for their coolness, or their agreeable flavour, than for their nutritive powers. Cauliflowers.—The cauliflower is less indigestible than the cabbage; it possesses a most agreeable flavour, and is sufficiently delicate to be served at the tables of the wealthy. It is a wholesome vegetable, but should be eaten moderatly, as it induces flatulence. Personsof weak constitutions and delicate stomachs should abstain from cauliflower as much as possible. I hey may be prepared in a variety of ways ; and, in selecting them, the whitest should be chosen ; those tinged with green or yellcw being of indifferent quality. 1622.-SUMMER SALAD. (Fr.-Salade.) Ingredients.—3 lettuces, 2 handfuls of mustard-and-cress, 10 young radishes, a few slices of cucumber. Mode.—Let the herbs be as fresh as possible for a salad, and, if at all stale or dead-looking, let them lie in water for an hour or two, which will very much refresh them. Wash and carefully pick them over, remove any decayed or worm-eaten leaves, and drain them thoroughly by swinging them gently in a clean cloth. With a silver knife, cut the lettuces into small pieces, and the radishes and cucumbers into thin slices ; arrange all these ingre- dients lightly on a dish, with the mustard-and- cress, and pour under, but not over, the salad, either of the sauces No. 764, 765, or 766, and do not stir it up until it is to be eaten. It should be garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, beetroot alternately, or sliced cucumbers, nasturtiums, cut vegetable-flowers, and many other things that taste will always suggest to make a pretty and elegant dish. In making a good salad, care must be taken to have the herbs freshly gathered, and thoroughly drained before the sauce is added to them, or it will be watery and thin. Young spring onions, cut small, are by many oersons considered an improvement to salads ; but, before these are idded, the cook should always consult the taste of her employer. Slices of cc-ld meat or poultry added to a salad make a convenient and quickly- made summer luncheon-dish; or cold fish, flaked, will also be found exceedingly nice, mixed with it. Average Cost, 9d. for a salad for 5 or 6 persons ; but more expensive when the herbs are forced. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from May to September.