r49 Vegetable Soups. 299.—CELERY SOUP. (Fr.—Pur£e de Celeri.) Ingredients.—9 heads of celery, 1 teaspoonful of salt, nutmeg to taste, 1 lump of sugar, £ a pint of white stock, a pint of cream or milk, and 2 quarts of boiling water, pot liquor or weak broth. Mode.—Cut the celery into small pieces, throw into the water, sea- soned with the nutmeg, salt and sugar. Boil it till sufficiently tender; pass it through a sieve, add the stock and simmer it for half an hour. Now put in the cream or milk, bring it to the boiling point, and serve immediately. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, gd. per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—This soup can be made brown, instead of white, by omitting the cream, and colouring it a little. When celery cannot be procured, half a drachm of the seed, finely pounded, will give a flavour to the soup, if put in a quarter of an hour before it is done. A little of the essence of celery will answer the same purpose. Celery.—This plant is indigenous to Britain, and in its wild state grows by the side of ditches and along some parts of the sea-coast. In this state it is called smallage, and, to some extent is a dangerous narcotic. By cultivation, however, it has been brought to the fine flavour which the garden-plant possesses. In the vicinity of Manchester it is raised to an enormous size When our natural observation is assisted by the accurate results ascertained by the light of science how infinitely does it enhance our delight in contemplating the products of nature I To know for ex- ample, that the endless variety of colour which we see in plants is developed only by the’rays of the sun, is to know a truism sublime by its very comprehensiveness. The cause of the whiteness of celery is nothing more than the want of light in its vegetation, and in order that this effect mav oe produced, the plant is almost wholly covered with earth ; the tips of the leaves alone beiim suffered to appear above the ground. ^ 300.—CHANTILLY SOUP. (Fr.—Puree de petits Pois.) Ingredients.—I quart of young green peas, a small bunch of parsley, 2 young onions, 2 quarts of medium stock, No. 273 ; spinach, leaf or two to colour; a sprig of mint. Mode. Boil the peas till quite tender, with the parsley and onions; then rub them through a sieve, and pour the stock to them. Do not let it boil after the peas are added, or you will spoil the colour. Serve very hot, with a few whole peas as garnish. Time.—Half an hour. Average Cost, is. id. per quart. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—Cold peas pounded in a mortar, with a little stock added to them •make a very good soup in haste. Pea-shells make as good a soup as the peas themselves, and should always be used. * M^r'l6y'^AT,vg the Greeks> inJh® cIas,sic ases> a crown of parsley was awarded, both in the Nemasan and Isthnnan games, and the voluptuous Anacreon pronounces this beautiful herb the emblem of joy and festivity. It has an elegant leaf, and is extensively used in the culinary art When rt was introduced to Britain is not known. There are several varieties-the *tei« leaved and the curUdAezved, celery-varsley and Hamburg-paisley. The curled is thought the belt and from the form of its leaf has a beautiful appearance on a dish as a garnish. Itsgflavour is to many, very agreeable in soups ; and although to rabbits, hares and sheep it is a luxury, m parrots roo. Pt T' The celery-parsley is used as a celery, and the Hamburg is cultivated onlyPfor°ts roots, which are used as parsnips or carrots, to eat with meat. ' or ltS