1542 Management of Nursery and Sick-Room. 3460. The Single Nursemaid.—In smaller families, where there is only one nursemaid kept, she is assisted by the housemaid or general servant, who will do the rougher part of the work, and carry up the nursery meals. In such circumstances she will be more immediately under the eye of her mistress, who will probably relieve her from some of the cares of the infant. In higher families, the upper nurse is usually permitted to sup or dine occasionally at the house- keeper's table by way of relaxation, when the children are all well, and her subordinates trustworthy. 3461. llaths for Children should be given according to age and con- stitution. Some require warm baths and cannot stand the effect of cold water, while with other children it agrees perfectly. A tepid bath is the one most generally suitable. Young children should have their bath in the morning, and if they are under two years may take it after their first meal. A child should never be given a hot bath in a very cold room, and thorough drying after bathing is of great importance. 3462. Children’s Complaints.—Where the nurse has the entire charge of the nursery, and the mother is too much occupied to do more than pay a daily visit to it, it is desirable that she is a person of observation, and possess some acquaintance with the diseases incident to childhood, as also with such simple remedies as may be useful before a medical attendant can be procured, or where such attendance is not considered necessary. All these little ailments are preceded by symptoms so minute as to be only perceptible to close observation ; such as twitching of the brows, restless sleep, grinding the gums, and, in some inflammatory diseases, even to the child abstaining from crying, from fear of the increased pain produced by the movement. Dentition, or cutting the teeth, is attended with many of these symptoms. Measles, thrush, scarlatina, croup, whooping-cough, and other childish complaints,.are all preceded by well-known symptoms, which may be alleviated and rendered less virulent by simple remedies instantaneously applied. 3463. Dentition is usually the first serious trouble, bringing many other disorders in its train. The symptoms are most perceptible to the mother: the child sucks feebly, and with gums hot, inflamed, and swollen. In this case, relief is yielded by rubbing them from time to time. Selfish and thoughtless nurses, and mothers too, sometimes give cordials and sleeping-draughts, whose effects are too well known. Teething and other complaints of children are treated of in 11 The Doctor.” 3464. Convulsion Fits sometimes follow the feverish restlessness produced by these causes ; in which case a hot bath should be administered without delay, and the lower parts of the body rubbed, the bath being as hot as it can be without scalding the tender skin ; at the same time the doctor should be sent for immediately, for no nurse should administer medicine in this case, unless the fifs have been repeated, and the doctor has left directions with her how to act. 3465. Croup is one of the most alarming diseases of childhood ; it is accom- panied with a hoarse, croaking, ringing cough, and comes on very suddenly, and most so in strong, robust children. A very hot bath should be instantly ad- ministered, followed by an emetic, either in the form of tartar-emetic, croup-