Creamed Apple Tart. 815 N ote.—Many things are suggested for the flavouring of apple-pie; some say 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of beer, others the same quantity of sherry, which very much improve the taste ; whilst the old-fashioned addition of a few cloves is, by many persons, preferred to anything else ; a few slices of quince are 'an improvement, in our judg- ment. Quinces.—The environs of Corinth originally produced the most beautiful quinces, but the plant was subsequently introduced into Gaul with the most perfect success. The ancients preserved the fruit by placing it, with its branches and leaves into a vessel filled with honey or sweet wine, which was reduced to half the quantity by ebullition. Quinces may be profitably cultivated in this country as a variety with other fruit-trees, and may be planted in espaliers or as standards. A very fine-flavoured marmalade may be prepared from quinces, and a small portion of quince in apple-pie much improves its flavour. The French use quinces for flavouring many sauces. This fruit has the remarkable peculiarity of exhaling an agreeable odour, taken singly; but when in any quantity, or when they are stowed away in a drawer or dose room, the pleasant aroma becomes an intolerable stench, although the fruit may be perfectly sound ; it is, therefore, desirable that, as but a few quinces are required for keeping, they should be kept in a high and dry loft, and out of the way of the rooms used by the family. QUINCE. 1710.—CREAMED APPLE TART. Ingredients.—Puff-crust, No. 1674, or 1675, apples; to every lb. of pared and cored apples, allow 2 oz. of moist sugar, |teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, | pint of boiled custard. Mode .—Make an apple tart by the preceding recipe, with the exception of omitting the icing. When the tart is baked, cut out the middle of the lid or crust, leaving a border all round the dish. Fill up with a nicely- made boiled custard, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the pie is ready for table. This tart is usually eaten cold; is rather an old-fashioned dish, but, at the same time, extremely nice. Time.—£ to f hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. 1711-APPLE SNOWBALLS. (ngredients.—2 teacupfuls of rice, apples, moist sugar, cloves. Mode.—Boil the rice in milk until three-parts done ; then strain it off, and pare and core the apples without dividing them. Put a small quantity of sugar and a clove into each apple, pnt the rioe round them and tie each ball separately in a cloth. Boil until the apples are tender; then take them up, remove the cloth, and serve. Time.—£ hour to boil the rice separately ; £ to 1 hour with the apples. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable from August to March.