Pork Sausages. 559 the wealth of the rich freemen of the country consisted of these animals Hence it was common to make bequests of swine, with lands for their support; and to these were attached rights and privileges in connection with their feeding, and the extent of woodland to be occupied by a given number was granted in accordance with established rules. This is proved by an ancient Saxon grant, quoted by Sharon Turner, in his “ History of the Anglo-Saxons," where the right of pastur- age is conveyed in a deed by the following words :—“ I give food for seventy swine in that woody allotment which the countrymen call Wolferdinlegh." 1220.—FRIED SAUSAGES. Ingredients.—Sausages ; a small piece of butter. Mode.—Prick the sausages with a fork (this prevents them from burst- ing), and put them into a frying-pan with a small piece of butter. Keep moving the pan about, and turn the sausages three or four times. In from 10 to 12 minutes they will be sufficiently cooked, unless they are very large, when a little more time should be allowed for them. Dish them with or without a piece of toast under them, and serve very hot. In some counties, sausages are boiled and served on toast. They should be plunged into boiling water, and simmered for about 10 or 12 minutes. Time.—10 to 12 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. to is. per lb. Seasonable.—Good from September to March. Note.—Sometimes, in close warm weather, sausages very soon turn sour; to prevent this, put them in the oven for a few minutes with a small piece of butter to keep them moist. When wanted for table, they will not require so long frying as uncooked sausages. The Saxon Swineherd.—The men employed in herding swine during the Anglo-Saxon period of our history were, in general, thralls or born slaves of the soil, who were assisted by powerful dogs, capable even of singly contending with the wolf until his master came with his spear to the rescue. In the “ Ivanfioe ” of Sir Walter Scott, we have an admirable picture, in the character of Gurth, an Anglo-Saxon swine-herd, as we also have of his master, a large landed proprietor, a great portion of whose wealth consisted of swine, and whose rude but plentiful board was liber- ally supplied with the flesh. 1221.—SAUSAGE-MEAT CAKES. Ingredients.—To every lb. of lean pork, add f lb. of fat bacon, £ oz. of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 tea- spoonful of minced parsley. Mode.—Remove from the pork all skin, gristle and bone, and chop it finely with the bacon ; add the remaining ingredients, and carefully mix all together. Pound it well in a mortar, make it into convenient-sized cakes, flour these, and fry them a nice brown for about ten minutes. This is a very simple method of making sausage-meat, and, on trial, will prove very good, its great recommendation being that it is so easily made. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, iotf. per lb. Seasonable from September to March.