1097 Hot Rolls. Mode.—Warm the butter in the milk, add to it the yeast and salt, and mix these ingredients well together. Put the flour into a pan, stir in the above ingredients, and let the dough rise, covered in a warm place. Knead it well, make it into rolls, let them rise again for a few minutes, and bake in a quick oven. Richer rolls may be made by adding 1 or 2 ROLLS* eggs and a larger proportion of butter, and their appearance improved by brushing the tops over with yolk of egg or a little milk. Time.—I lb. of flour divided into 6 rolls, from 15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, id. each. 2417. —HOT ROLLS. This dish, although very unwholesome and indigestible, is nevertheless a great favourite, and eaten by many persons. As soon as the rolls come from the baker’s, they should be put into the oven, which, in the early part of the morning, is sure not to be very hot; and the rolls must not be buttered until wanted. When they are quite hot, divide them lengthwise into three ; put some thin flakes of good butter between the slices, press the rolls together, and put them in the oven for a minute or two, but not longer, or the butter would oil; take them out of the oven, spread the butter equally ov^r them, divide the rolls in half, and put them on to a very hot clean dish, and send them instantly to table. Average Cost, id. each. 2418. —NICE ROLLS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 4 oz. of powdered lump sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt. Mode.—Mix all these well together and mix into a stiff dough, with a little milk. Roll it out three-quarters of an inch thick, and cut into rolls, throw them into a pan of boiling water on the fire, and directly they rise to the top, which will be in a minute or so if the water is really boiling, take them out and put them into a pan of cold water for an hour or two, if you are not quite ready to bake them. Then bake them for 20 minutes in a quick oven, a light brown. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 7d. 2419.—TO MAKE DRY TOAST. {Ft.—Pain Roti.) To make dry toast properly, a great deal of attention is required ; much more, indeed, than people generally suppose. Never use new bread for making any kind of toast, as it is moist and tough, and, besides, is very