Duties of the Nursery Governess. 1539 3453. A knowledge of needlework is also essential. It is not always stipulated that the nursery governess makes the clothing for the children, but it is always understood that she repairs it and keeps it in order, and to do this she must work neatly, and, if the children be old enough, give them some instruction in the rudiments of needlework. To be able to renovate and renew little garments, to trim hats or bonnets, and to suggest or design pretty and inexpensive little costumes, should be a pleasure to one who takes an interest in the children for whom she works ; while, if she be able to undertake the entire clothing of them she should find favour with her employer and be able to command a higher salary than she could otherwise obtain. 3454 Pities of the Nursery Go vent ess. —Where there is a nurse and nursemaid kept, these would chiefly consist in teaching, needlework and superin- tendence ; very probably walking out with the little ones and having those old enough to come to table in charge during meals; but where, as is generally the case when a nursery governess is engaged, there are no nurses and the looking after the little ones devolves upon her, her duties are more numerous and varied If THE NURSERY GOVERNESS. there be a baby besides several other children in a household where no nurse is kept, it is not expected that the nursery governess does more for it than having it occasionally in her charge and doing a little needlework for it when necessary • ueijm°thur washing’ dressing and looking after it herself. With the other children the governess’s work chiefly lies. She washes and dresses them, looks alter them at their meals, takes them out walking, gives them instruction accord- ing to their ages, looks after clothes, and puts them to bed. It should be part of her duty also to amuse and interest the little ones while they are with her and to be on the watch for, and to correct, all that is wrong or ill-mannered in their ways. 3455. Incidental duties such as a little help given to the mistress of the house, dusting the drawing-room, arranging the flowers, and many other little tasks, should be willingly performed if there be time to spare from that which must be devoted to the children. None of these would be asked by a lady who looked upon the one she employed in the right light (unless she had engaged her to do them) except as an assistance to herself; and while any little services can thus be rendered by “ a mother’s help ” (in the best sense of the phrase) to her employer, they should be the means of bringing the two together in bonds of sympathy and friendship.