307 French White Sauce. avoided. When it has boiled long enough to extract the flavour of the herbs, &c., strain it, and boil it up quickly again, until it is nearly half reduced. Now mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cream, pour to it the reduced stock, and continue to simmer slowly for 10 minutes, if the sauce be thick. If, on the contrary, it be too thin, it must be stirred over a sharp fire till it thickens. This is the foundation of many kinds of sauces, especially white sauces. Always make it thick, as you can easily thin it with cream, milk, or white stock. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average Cost, is. per pint. The Clove. (Fr.—Clou de Glrofie.)—The clove-tree is a native of the Molucca Islands, particularly Amboyna, and attains the height of a laurel-tree, and no verdure is ever seen under it. From the extremi- ties of the branches quantities of flowers grow; at first white, then they become green, and next red and hard, when they have arrived at then- clove state. When they become dry, they assume a yellowish hue, which subsequently changes into a dark brown. As an aromatic, the clove is highly stimulating, and yields an abundance of oil. There are several varieties of the clove; the best is called the royal clove, which is scarce, and which is blacker and smaller than the other kinds. It is a curious fact, that the flowers, when fully developed, are quite inodorous, and that the real fruit is not in the least aromatic. The form is that of a nail, having a globular head, formed of the four petals of the corolla, and four leaves of the calyx not expanded, with a nearly cylindrical germen, scarcely an inch in length, situate below. 666.—FRENCH WHITE SAUCE WITHOUT MEAT. (Fr.—Bechamel Maigre.) Ingredients.—2 onions, 1 blade of mace, mushroom trimmings, a small bunch of parsley, 1 oz. of butter, flour, i a pint of water, 1 pint of milk, salt, the juice of | a lemon, 2 eggs. Mode.—Put in a stewpan the milk and half a pint of water, with the onions, mace, mushrooms, parsley, and salt. Let these simmer gently for 20 'minutes. In the meantime, melt in another saucepan 1 oz. of butter, add 1 oz. of flour and strain and gradually add the liquor, stirring it well till it boils up; then place it by the side of the fire, and continue stirring until it is perfectly smooth. Now add the lemon-juice. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with about 4 dessertspoonfuls of milk; strain this to the sauce, keep stirring it over the fire, but do not let it boil, lest it curdle. Time.—Altogether f hour. Average Cost, 6d. per pint. Note.—This is a good sauce to pour over boiled fowls when they are a bad colour. Black Pepper. (Fr.—Poivra.)—This well-known aromatic spice is the fruit of a species of climbing vine, and is a native of the East Indies, and is extensively cultivated in Malabar and the