Lemon Caki. 1125 Seasonable at any time. pint of milk, 4 eggs, 1 oz. of mixed peel, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.— Blanch and split the almonds and mix all the dry ingredients together. Warm the butter in the milk, beat the eggs, whites and yolks separately, add them, then gradually mix with the other ingredients, beat well, pour into a buttered mould, and bake 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 8d. Seasonable at any time. 2495.—JOHNNY CAKE. Ingredients.—1 teacupful of flour, I teacupful of yellow Indian meal, 1 teacupful of milk, 1 cupful of water, 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar, 1 tablespoonful of baking-powder, pinch of salt, 3 eggs. Mode.—The milk may be either sour or fresh. Mix the dry and wet ingredients in separate bowls, then put them together, mix well, pour into a buttered tin, and bake half an hour or more in a quick oven. Time.—£ hour or longer. Average Cost, 4d. Seasonable at any time. 2496.—CALIFORNIA JUMBLES. Ingredients.—1 lb. of sugar, I lb. of butter, if lb. of flour, grated lemon-peel and wine, whites of 4 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar together very light; add lemon, wine, eggs, and flour. Flour the hands for moulding the jumbles ; make a roll the size of the little finger, and 5 inches long ; twist the ends ; put them in a buttered pan, leaving plenty of room for them to spread. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 25. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 2497.-LEMON CAKE. Ingredients.—10 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of orange-flower-water, £ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lemon, \ lb. of flour. Mode.—Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs; whisk the former to a stiff froth ; add the orange-flower-water, the sugar, grated lemon-rind, and mix these ingredients well together. Then beat the yolks of the eggs, and add them, with the lemon-juice, to the whites, &c.; dredge in the flour gradually; keep beating the mixture well; put it into a buttered mould, and bake, the cake about an hour, or rather longer. The addition of a little butter, beaten to a cream, we think, would improve this cake. Time.—About 1 hour. Average Cost, is. 4d. CAKE-MOULD.