Apples and Custard. 909 Seasonable from July to March. *939-—APPLE SOUFFLE. (Fr — Souffle de Pommes.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, the rind of £a lemon, sugar to taste, the yolks of 4 eggs, the whites of 6, oz. of butter, 4 tablespoon- fuls of apple marmalade No. 1931. Mode.—Boil the milk with the lemon-peel until the former is well flavoured ; then strain it, put in the rice, and let it gradually swell over a slow fire, adding sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely. Then crush the rice to a smooth pulp with the back of a wooden spoon ; line the bottom and sides of a round cake-tin with it, and put it into the oven to set; turn it out of the tin carefully, and be careful that the border of rice is firm in every part. Mix with the marmalade the beaten yolks of eggs and the butter, and stir these over the fire until the mixture thickens. Take it off the fire; to this add the whites of the eggs, which should be previously beaten to a strong froth ; stir all together, and put it into the rice border. Bake in a hot oven for about half an hour, or until the souffle rises very light. It should be watched, and served instantly, or it will immediately fall after it is taken from the oven. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 15. M. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to March. 1940.-STEWED APPLES AND CUSTARD. (Fr.—Pommes a la Creme.) (A Pretty Dish for a Juvenile Supper.) Ingredients.—7 good-sized apples, the rind of £ a lemon or 4 cloves ; J lb. of sugar, ^ pint of water, pint of custard, No. 1969. Mode.— Pare and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing them, and, if possible, leave the stalks on ; boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes; then put in the apples with the lemon-rind or cloves, whichever flavour may be preferred, and simmer gently until they are tender, taking care not to let them break. Dish them neatly on a glass dish, reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly for a few minutes, let it cool a little ; then pour it over the apples. Have ready quite half a pint of custard made by recipe No. 1969; pour it round, but not over, the apples when they are quite cold, and the dish is ready for table. A few almonds, blanched and cut into strips, and stuck in the apples, would improve their appearance. Time-—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient to fill a large glass dish