To Clean Brass. 1531 with another layer of coals and some paper over it; the paper is lighted in the usual way, and soon burns down to a good fire, with some economy of fuel, it is said. 3429.—TO CLEAN BRITANNIA METAL. Articles made of what is usually called Britannia metal may be kept in order by the frequent use of the following composition :—f lb. of finely- powdered whiting, a wineglass of sweet oil, a tablespoonful of soft soap, i oz. of yellow soap melted in water. Add to these in mixing sufficient spirits—gin or spirits of wine—to make the compound the consis- tency of cream. This cream should be applied with a sponge or soft flannel, wiped off with soft linen rags, and the article well polished with a leather; or they may be cleaned with only oil and soap in the following manner:—Rub the articles with sweet oil on a piece of woollen cloth ; then wash well with strong soap-and-water ; rub them dry and polish with a soft leather and whiting. The polish thus given will last for a long time. 3430.—TO CLEAN BRASS. Dissolve 1 oz. of oxalic acid in one pint of soft water. Rub it on the brass with a piece of flannel, and polish with another dry piece. This solution should be kept in a bottle labelled “ poison,” and the bottle well shaken before it is used, which should be only occasionally; for in a general way the brass should be cleaned with pulverised rotten-stone, mixed into a liquid state with oil of turpentine. Rub this on with a piece of soft leather, leave it for a few minutes, and then wipe it off with a soft cloth. Brass treated generally with the latter, and occasionally with the former mode of cleaning, will look most beautiful; or a very good general polish for brass may be made of £ lb. of rotten-stone and 1 oz. of oxalic acid, with as much water as will make it into a stiff paste. Set this paste on a plate in a cool oven to dry, pound it very fine, and apply a little of the powder, moistened with sweet oil, to the brass with a piece of leather, polishing with another leather or an old silk handkerchief. This powder should also be labelled “ poison.” 3431.-TO BRIGHTEN GILT FRAMES. Take sufficient flour of sulphur to give a golden tinge to about if pint of water, and in this boil four or five bruised onions, or garlic, which will answer the same purpose. Strain off the liquid, and with it, when cold, wash, with a soft brush, any gilding which requires restoring, and when dry it will come out as bright as new work. They may also be brightened in the following manner:—Beat up the white of eggs with chloride of potass or soda, in the proportion of 3 oz. of eggs to 1 oz. of chloride