637 Roast Turkey. Seasonable from December to February. 1333-—'ROAST TURKEY. (Fr.—Dinde Rotie.) Ingredients.—Turkey; foremeat, No. 629. Mode. — Having dressed and stuffed the bird, fasten a sheet of buttered paper over the breast, put it down to a bright fire, at some little distance at first (afterwards draw it nearer), and keep it well basted the whole of the time it is cooking. About a quarter of an hour before serving remove the paper, dredge the turkey lightly with flour, and put a piece of butter into the basting-ladle; as the butter melts, baste the bird with it. When of a nice brown and well frothed, serve with a tureen of good brown gravy and. one of bread-sauce. Fried sausages are a favourite addition to roast turkey ; they make a pretty garnish, besides adding very much to the flavour. When these are not at hand, a few forcemeat balls should be placed round the dish as a garnish. Turkey may also be stuffed with sausage-meat, and a chestnut forcemeat with the same sauce is, by many persons, much esteemed as an accompaniment to this favourite dish. Time.—Small turkey, i£ hour; moderate-sized one, about 10 lbs., 2 hours; large turkey, hours, or longer. Average Cost, from 7s. 6d. to 10s. 6d., but expensive at Christmas on account of the great demand. Sufficient.—A moderate-sized turkey, for 7 or 8 persons. Note.—Choose cock-turkeys by their short spurs and black legs, in which case they are young ; if the spurs are long, and the legs pale and rough, they are old. If the bird has been long killed, the eyes will appear sunk and the feet very dry ; but, if fresh, the contrary will be the case. Middling-sized fleshy turkeys are by many persons considered superior to those of an immense growth, as they are, generally speaking, much more tender. They should never be dressed the same day as they are killed ; but, in cold weather, should hang at least 8 days; if the weather is mild, 4 or 5 days will be found sufficient. English Turkeys.—These are reared in great numbers in Suffolk, Norfolk and several other counties, whence they were wont to be driven to the London market in flocks of several hun- dreds ; the improvements in our modes of travelling now, however, enable them to be brought by railway. Their drivers used to manage them with great facility, by means of a bit of red rag tied to the end of a long stick, which, from the antipathy these birds have to that colour, effec- tually answered the purpose of a scourge. There are three varieties of the turkey in this country—the black, the white and the speckled or copper-coloured. The black approaches nearest the original stock, and is esteemed the best. Its flesh is white and tender, delicate, nourishing and of excellent flavour ; it greatly deteriorates with age, however, and is then good for little but stewing. 1334— ROAST TURKEY POULT. (Fr.—Dindonneau Roti.) Ingredients.—Turkey poult; butter. Mode.—Put it down to a bright fire, keep it well basted, and at first place a piece of paper on the breast to prevent its taking too much colour. ROAST TURKEY.