398 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Seasonable at any time. Mode.—Cut some bacon into thin strips, and sprinkle over them a seasoning of pepper and salt, mixed with cloves, mace, and allspice, well pounded. Lard the beef with these, put it into a stewpan, with the stock or water, sherry, herbs, shalots, 2 cloves, and more pepper and salt. Stew the meat gently until tender, when take it out, cover it closely, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and strain it. Set it on the fire, and boil till it becomes a glaze. Glaze the larded side of the beef with this, and serve on sorrel sauce, which is made as follows :—Wash and pick some sorrel, and put it into a stewpan with only the water that hangs abbut it. Keep stirring to prevent its burning, and when done, lay it in a sieve to drain. Chop it, and stew it with a small piece of butter and 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of good gravy for an hour, and rub it through a tammy. If too acid, add a little sugar. A little cabbage-lettuce boiled with the sorrel will be found an improvement. Time.—2 hours to gently stew the meat. Average Cost, for this quantity, 4s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 889.—FRICASSEE OF BEEF. (Fr— Boeuf en Fricassee). Ingredients.—1 lb. of cold roast beef, i pint of water, 1 tablespoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and butter the size of a walnut. Mode.—Put the water into a frying-pan, and, when it boils, add flour smoothed, a little butter, pepper and salt; cut the beef in thin slices, put them into the gravy and let them boil 5 minutes; if you have beef gravy, use it and omit the butter. Serve with boiled potatoes, tomatoes, rice or macaroni. Time.—15 minutes. Average Cost, is.3d. Seasonable at any time. 890.-FRIED SALT BEEF. (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A few slices of cold salt beef, pepper to taste, \ lb. of Gutter, mashed potatoes. Mode.—Cut any part of cold salt beef into thin slices, fry them gently in butter, and season with a little pepper. Have ready some very hot mashed potatoes, lay the slices of beef on them, and garnish with 3 or 4 pickled gherkins. Cold salt beef, warmed in a little liquor from mixed pickle, drained and served as above, will be found good. Time.—About 5 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 5^.