892 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. thoroughly drained put half an apricot, hollow upwards in each, and fill with whipped cream. Average Cost, 2d. each. Seasonable at any time. 1905.—CREAM TARTLETS. (Fr.—Tartelettes a la Creme.) Ingredients.—1 white and 3 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of sugar, pinch of salt, flour, jam, whipped cream. Mode.—Make a paste of the eggs, butter, sugar, flour, and salt, work- ing it very lightly. Roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, line tartlet-tins with it and fill them with rice to preserve the shape. Bake carefully in a moderate oven. Remove the rice, fill them with jam and put a spoonful of whipped cream on each. These form a very pretty dish. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 9d. for this quantity. Sufficient for 6 tartlets. Seasonable at any time. 1906.—CUSTARD TARTLETS. (Fr.—Fanchonnettes.) Ingredients.—For the custard, 4 eggs, \ pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls of flour, flavouring to taste, the whites of 2 eggs, 2 oz. of pounded sugar. Mode.—Well beat the eggs; stir to them the milk, the butter, which should be beaten to a cream, the sugar, and flour ; mix these ingredients well together, put them into a very clean saucepan, and bring them to the simmering-point, but do not allow them to boil. Flavour with essence of vanilla, bitter almonds, lemon, grated chocolate, or any flavouring ingre- dient that may be prefered. Liue some round tartlet-pans with good puff- paste ; fill them with the custard, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes; then take them out of the pans; let them cool, and in the meantime whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; stir into this the pounded sugar, and spread smoothly over the tartlets a little of this mix- ture. Put them in the oven again to set the icing, but be particular that they do not scorch ; when the icing looks crisp, they are done. Arrange them, piled high in the centre, on a white napkin, and garnish the dish, and in between the tartlets, with strips of bright jelly, or very firmly-made preserve. Time.—20 minutes to bake the tartlets; 5 minutes after being iced. Average Cost, exclusive of the paste, iorf. Sufficient to fill 10 or 12 tartlets. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The icing may be omitted on the tops of the tartlets, and a spoonful of any kind of preserve put at the bottom of the custard instead ; this varies both the flavour and appearance of this dish.