1286 General Observations on German Cookery. live better than we do. Their mode of cooking is, taken all round, more expensive, but here again their wonderful management and thrift comes in. 2924. Economy.—We in England have no idea of their capabilities of saving at every turn. Contrary to our English custom, meat is cut up into very small joints, a circumstance highly beneficial to families where there are few members. A German housekeeper is not likely, if she asks for one pound of rump steak, to carry away two, simply because the butcher should happen, either acci- dentally or intentionally, to make the heavier weight. Clarified butter, of which a large quantity is used in Cie preparation of almost everything, is made in the middle of summer when butter is at its cheapest. A large quantity of ene day’s churning is placed over the fire in a copper vessel and allowed to simmer gently, being continually skimmed until all the dross is removed, when it is poured off clear as water, and stored away in stone jars until wanted. This butter will keep six or eight months. Eggs, new-laid, are rubbed over with salad oil and put away by the hundred, at a season when their average cost does not exceed 9d. a dozen, whereas their winter price might be almost double. Eggs thus treated will keep six months. Another instance. We in England, when making apple jelly, peel the apples and throw away the peels. In Germany the jelly is made from the peel of apples and the fruit itself is utilised for tarts or compote. Stewed fruit is frequently used at German tables as a substitute for a second vegetable. With roast pork, for example, a huge basin of stewed plums generally makes its appearance, instead of the small sauce boat of apple sauce to which we treat the joint. Apple compote is served in the same way with roast veal or fowl. Ducks, geese and turkeys are, generally speaking, stuffed with chestnuts and spices, instead of sage and onions, or lemon stuffing such as we use at home. A great institution in German cooking are nuclein, a sort of macaroni. There are nudeln of every kind, size and shape. Nudeln for soups, nudeln to be eaten with roast meat, especially veal, and nudeln as a sweet, to be eaten v/ith fruit. Perhaps as great a delicacy as any to be met with is the mariniert or pickled fish of all kinds, which is to be procured in large or small quantities at the Delicatessen Handlung (Delicacies Warehouses) throughout Germany. We have all heard of the national linsensuppe, sauerbraten, sauerkraut, wurst and nudeln, but few of us have ever tried the preparation even of these in our own homes. The recipes sub- joined of dishes in frequent use amongst the Germans are well worth trying, and none of us would regret the introduction of them into our home menu.