Seasonable from October to March. To Make Lard. 551 rub it well with salt. Make the brine by boiling the above ingredients for a quarter of an hour, and letting it stand to cool. When cold, pour it over the head, and let it steep in this for 10 days, turning and rubbing it often. Then wipe, drain and dry it. For the forcemeat, pound the ham and bacon very finely, and mix with these the remaining ingredients, taking care that the whole is thoroughly incorporated. Spread this equally over the head, roll it tightly in a cloth, and bind it securely with broad tape. Put it into a saucepan with a few meat trimmings, and cover it with stock, let it simmer gently for 4 hours, and be particular that it does not stop boiling the whole time. When quite tender, take it up, put it between 2 dishes and a heavy weight on the top, and when cold, remove the cloth and tape. It should be sent to table on a napkin, or garnished with a piece of deep white paper, with a ruche at the top. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, from 2s. to 2s. 6d. The Wild and Domestic Hog.—The domestic hog is the descendant of a race long since ban- ished from this island ; and it is remarkable that, while the tamed animal has been and is kept under surveillance the wild type when 3 this race sprung has maintained itself in its ancient freedom, the fierce denizen of the forest, and one of the renowned beasts of the chase. What- ever doubt may exist as to the true origin of the dog, the horse, the ox, and others, or as to whether their original race is yet extant or not, thesejdoubts do not apply to the domestic hog; its wild source still exists, and is universally recognised; like the wolf, however, it has been expelled from our island; but, like that animal, it still roams through the vast wooded tracts of Europe and Asia. 1205.—TO DRESS PIG’S FRY. [A Savoury Dish.) Ingredients.—li lb. of pig’s fry, 2 onions, a few sage-leaves, 2 lbs. of potatoes, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Put the lean fry at the bottom of a pie-dish, sprinkle over it some minced sage and onion, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; slice the potatoes; put a layer of these on the seasoning, then a fat fry, then more seasoning, and a layer of potatoes at the top. Fill the dish with boiling water, and bake for 2 hours, or rather longer. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average Cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from October to March. 1206.—TO MAKE LARD. (Fr— Fonte au Sain-doux.) Mode.—Melt the inner fat of the pig, by putting it in a stone jar, and placing this in a saucepan of boiling water, previously stripping off the skin. Let it simmer gently over a bright fire, and as it melts, pour it carefully from the sediment. Put it into small jars or bladders for use, pig’s face.