Ginger Wine. 1201 Time.—To stand covered 24 hours; to be boiled 1 hour. Average Cost, when made at home, 3s. 6d. per gallon. Seasonable.—Make this in September. Elderberry Wine.—The elderberry is well adapted for the pro- duction of wine ; its juice contains a considerable portion of the principle necessary for a vigorous fermentation, and its beautiful colour communicates a rich tint to the wins made from it. It is, however, deficient in sweetness, and therefore demands an addition of sugar. It is one of the very best of the genuine old elderberries. English wines; and a cup of it mulled, just previous to retiring to bed on a winter night, is a thing to be “ run for,” as Cobbett would say : it is not, however, agree- able to every taste. 2683.-GINGER WINE. Ingredients.—To 9 gallons of water allow 27 lbs. of loaf sugar, 9 lemons, 12 oz. of bruised ginger, 3 tablespoonfuls of yeast, 2 lbs. of raisins stoned and chopped, 1 pint of brandy. Mode.—Boil together for 1 hour in a copper (let it pre- viously be well scoured and beautifully clean), the water, sugar, lemon-rinds and bruised ginger : remove every particle of scum as it rises, and when the liquor is sufficiently boiled, put it into a large tub or pan, as it must not remain in the copper. When nearly cold, add the yeast, which must be thick and very fresh, and the next day, put all in a dry cask with the strained lemon-juice and chopped raisins. Stir the wine every day for a fortnight; then add the brandy, stop the cask down by degrees, and in a few weeks it will be fit to bottle. Average Cost, 2s. per gallon. Sufficient to make 9 gallons of wine. Seasonable.—The best time for making this wine is either in March or September. Mote .—Wine made early in March will be fit to bottle in June. 2684.—GINGER WINE. (The Editor's own Recipe.) Ingredients.—12 oz. of bruised unbleached ginger, 28 lbs. of loaf sugar, 12 lemons, 12 lbs. of raisins, 12 gallons of spring water, 6 table- spoonfuls of yeast, 1 oz. of isinglass, 3 pints of brandy. Mode.—Boil the water, ginger, sugar and lemon-peel for half an hour ; have the raisins ready chopped in a pan ; pour the liquor over them when nearly cold ; add the lemon-juice and the yeast; stir it every day for a fortnight, then add the isinglass, strain it, and put in the cask as soon as convenient. Average Cost, 2s. per gallon. Sufficient to make 12 gallons of wine. Seasonable.—To make in March or September ; to drink in summer pr winter. ,Note.—If made in March this wine will be fit to bottle in June, J