886 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. Mode.—Chop the suet and put it in a saucepan with the milk to get hot, but not boil, then pour it on the bread-crumbs and sugar, add the currants, washed and dried, beat the eggs well and add them. Put it into a floured cloth, or a buttered dish, and bake or boil i hour. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. 4d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1890.-SUFFOLK OR HARD DUMPLINGS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, | pint of water, £ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Mix the flour and water together to a smooth paste, previously adding a small quantity of salt. Form this into small round dumplings; drop them into boiling water, and boil from half to three-quarters of an hour. They may be served with roast or boiled meat; in the latter case they may be cooked with the meat, but should be dropped into the water when it is quite boiling. Time.—i to f hour. Sufficient for 10 or 12 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. 1891.—VERMICELLI PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 oz. of vermicelli, i£ pint of milk, £ pint of cream, 3 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.—Boil the vermicelli in the milk until it is tender; then stir in the remaining ingredients, omitting the cream if not obtainable. Flavour the mixture with grated lemon-rind, essence of bitter almonds, or vanilla; butter a pie-dish ; line the edges with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, is. 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Vermicelli. -The finest vermicelli comes from Marseilles, Nimes, and Montpellier. It is a nourisning food, and owes its name to its peculiar thread-like form. Vermicelli means, little worms. 1892.—VICARAGE PUDDING. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of chopped suet, ^ lb. of currants, £ lb. of raisins, 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, £ teaspoonful of ground ginger, ^ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a basin, having previously stoned the raisins and washed, picked, and dried the currants ; mix well with a clean knife; dip the pudding-cloth into boiling water, wring it out, and put in the mixture. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, plunge ig