834 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. proportion of sugar, but we find fruit-puddings are so much more juicy and palatable when well sweetened before they are boiled, besides being more economical. A few raspberries added to red-currant pudding are a very nice addition : about half a pint would be sufficient for the above quantity of fruit. Fruit-puddings are very delicious if, when they are turned out of the basin the crust is browned with a salamander, or put into a very hot oven for a few minutes to colour it: this makes it crisp on the surface. Time.—2\ to 3 hours; without a basin, 2 to hours. Average Cost, in full season, 8c/. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August. Currants.—The utility of currants, red, black or white, has long been established in domestic economy. The juice of the red species, if boiled with an equal weight of loaf sugar, forms an agreeable substance called currant jelly, much employed in sauces, and very valuable in the cure of sore throats and colds. The French mix it with sugar and water, and thus form an agreeable beverage. The juice of currants is a valuable remedy in obstructions of the bowels; and, in febrile complaints, it is useful on account of its readily quenching thirst, and for its cooling effect on the stomach. White and flesh-coloured currants have, with the excep- tion of the fulness of flavour, in every respect the same qualities as the currants. red species. Both white and red currants are pleasant additions to the dessert, but the black variety is mostly used for culinary and medicinal purposes, especially in the form of jelly for quinsevs. The leaves of the black currant make pleasant tea. 1758.—RED CURRANT AND RASPBERRY TART. Ingredients.—1J pint of picked currants, ^ pint of raspberries, 3 heaped tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, 4 lb. of short-crust, No. 1680. Mode.—Strip the currants from the stalks and put them into a deep pie-dish, with a small cup placed in the midst, bottom upwards; add the raspberries and sugar; place a border of paste round the edge of the dish, cover with crust, ornament the edges and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour ; strew some sifted sugar over before being sent to table. This tart is more generally served cold than hot. Time.—i to f hour. Average Cost, is. 4c/. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August. Raspberi i6S.—There are two sorts of raspberries, the red and the white. Eoth the scent and flavour of this fruit are very refreshing, and *hai:<2rry itself is exceedingly wholesome and invaluable to people of a nervous or bilious temperament. We are not aware, however, of its being eultivated with the same amount of care which is bestowed upon ioine other of the berry tribe, although it is far from improbable that a more careful cultivation would not be repaid by a considerable improve- ment in the size and flavour of the berry ; neither, as an eating fruit, is it so universally esteemed as the strawberry, with whose lusciousness and peculiarly agreeable flavour it can bear no comparison. In Scotland, raspberry. is found in large quantities, growing wild, and is eagerly sought after ui cue woods by children. Its juice is rich and abundant, and, to many, extremely agreeable.