£86 Recipes for Soups. absolutely completed. When the flesh is also completely done, strain it through a silk sieve, and make a very thin white roux; for turtle soup must not be much thickened. When the flour is sufficiently done on a slow fire, and has a good colour, moisten it with the liquor, keeping it over the fire till it boils. Ascertain that the sauce is neither too thick nor too thin; then draw the stewpan to the side of the stove, to skim off the white scum, and all the fat and oil that rises to the surface of the sauce. By this time all the softer parts will be sufficiently cold; when they must be cut to about the size of one or two inches square, and thrown into the soup, which must now be left to simmer gently. When done, skim off all the fat and froth. Take all the leaves of the herbs from the stock— sweet basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, winter savory, 2 or 3 bay- leaves, common thyme, a handful of parsley and green onions, and a large onion cut in four pieces, with a few blades of mace. Put these in a stewpan, with about £ lb. of fresh butter, and let it simmer on a slow fire till quite melted, when pour in 1 bottle of good Madeira, adding a small bit of sugar, and let it boil gently for 1 hour. When done, rub it through a tammy, and add it to the soup. Let this boil, till no white scum rises ; then take with a skimmer all the bits of turtle out of the sauce, and put them in a clean stewpan ; when you have taken all out, pour the soup over the bits of turtle, through a tammy, and proceed as follows :— Quenelles & Tortue.—Make some quenelles a tortue, which being substitutes for eggs, do not require to be very delicate. Take out the fleshy part of a leg of veal, about 1 lb., scrape off all the meat, without leaving any sinews or fat, and soak in milk about the same quantity of crumbs of bread. When the bread is well soaked, squeeze it, and put into a mortar, with the veal, a small quantity of calf’s udder, a little butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, boiled hard, a little cayenne pepper, salt and spices, and pound the whole very fine; then thicken the mixture with 2 whole eggs and the yolk of another. Next try this farce, or stuffiing, in boiling-hot water, to ascertain its consistency ; if it is too thin, add the yolk of an egg. When the farce is perfected, take half of it, and put into it some chopped parsley. Let the whole cool, in order to roll it of the size of the yolk of an egg ; poach it in salt and boiling water, and when very hard drain on a sieve, and put it into the turtle. Before you send up, squeeze the juice of 2 or 3 lemons upon a little cayenne pepper, and pour that into the soup. The fins may be served as a plat d'entree with a little turtle sauce; if not, on the following day you may warm the turtle au bain marie, and serve the members entire, with a matelote sauce, garnished with mushrooms, cocks’ combs, quenelles, &c. When either lemon-juice or cayenne pepper has been introduced, no boiling must take place.