ii8 Introduction to Cookery. of beef. Rumps and aitch-bones of beef, when bruised, should not be purchased. All these things ought to enter into the consideration of every household manager; and great care should be taken that nothing is thrown away, or suffered to be wasted in the kitchen, which might, by proper management, be turned to a good account. The shank-bones of mutton, so little esteemed in general, give richness to soups or gravies, if well soaked and bruised before they are added to the boiling. Roast-beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make excellent stock for soup. When the whites of eggs are used for jelly, confectionery, or other purposes, a pudding or a custard should be made, that the yolks may be used. All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness: sugars of different sorts; currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry ; spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles closely corked, or in canisters, as we have already directed. Not more of these should be purchased at a time than are likely to be used in the course of a month. Much waste is always prevented by keeping every article in the place best suited to it. Vegetables keep best on a stone floor, if the air be excluded ; meat, in a cold, dry place; as also salt, sugar, sweetmeats, candles, dried meats and hams. Rice, and all sorts of seeds for pudding, should be closely covered to preserve them from insects; but even this will not prevent them from being affected by these destroyers, if they are long and carelessly kept in a damp place. Pears and grapes should be strung, and hung up in a cold, dry place. Apples should be laid on straw, after being carefully wiped, and should not touch each other. They keep better on wood than on china. 243. QUANTITIES AND MEASURES. In order that the duties of the Cook may be properly performed, and that he may be able to reproduce esteemed dishes with certainty, all terms of indecision should be banished from his art. Accordingly, what is known only to him will, in these pages, be~made known to others. In them, all those indecisive terms expressed by a bit of this, some of that, a small piece of that, and a handful of the other, shall never be made use of, but all quantities be precisely and explicitly stated. With a desire, also, that all ignorance on this most essential part of the culinary art should disappear, and that a uniform system of weights and measures should be adopted, we give an account of the weights which answer to certain measures. A Tablespoonfu! is frequently mentioned in a recipe, in the prescriptions of medical men, and also in medical, chemical and gastronomical works. By it is generally meant and understood a measure or bulk equal to that which would be produced by half an ounce of water. A tablespoonful of flour weighs about one ounce. A Dessertspoonful is the half of a tablespoonful; that is to say, by it is meant a measure or bulk equal to a quarter of an ounce of water, or half an ounce dry. A Teaspoonful is equal in quantity to a drachm of water. A Drop.—This is the name of a vague kind of measure, and is so called on account of the liquid being dropped from the mouth of a bottle. Its quantity, however, will vary, either from the consistency of the liquid or the size and shape of the mouth of the bottle. The College of Physicians determined the quantity Iof a drop to be one grain, 60 drops making one fluid drachm. Their drop, or sixtieth part of a fluid drachm, is called a minim. Graduated glass measures can be obtained at any chemist’s, and they save much trouble. One of these containing a wine pint, is divided into 16 oz., and the oz. into 8 drachms of water; by which any certain weight mentioned in a recipe can be accurately measured out. Home-made measures of this kind can readily be formed by weighing the water contained in any given measure, and marking on any tall glass the space it occupies. This mark can easily be made with a file. It will be interesting to many readers to know the basis on which the French found their system of weights and measures, for it certainly possesses the grandeur of simplicity. The metre, which is the basis of the graduated whole system of French weights and measures, is the exact measurement of glass measure, one forty-millionth Dart of a meridian of the earth-