Management of Nursery and Sick-Room, 154° UPPER AND UNDER NURSEMAIDS. 3456. The Nursery should be a bright, cheerful room, sunny and airy, and if at the top of the house, still not one where the extremes of heat and cold we do, if the sanitary arrangements are not perfect, and as in some houses it happens, that with, perhaps, the exception of a short half-hour now and then, they spend all their time at home in the one room, it ought to -be kept at an even tem- perature, and made as pleasant as pos- sible for its little inmates. The walls should be covered with sanitary paper of some cheerful pattern, and varnished. The floor of the night nursery should not be covered with carpet, and it is better for each child to have its own little bed or crib with sufficient, but not too much, clothing. The greatest cleanliness is needed in a nursery, for the children cannot thrive if they are not well kept, and a room so constantly used as the day nursery by little folks, needs more cleaning than ordinary sitting-rooms. 3457. Duf ies of the Head Nurse.—The nursery is of great importance in every family, and in families of distinction, where there are several young children, it is an establishment •kept apart from the rest of the family, under the charge of an •upper nurse, assisted by under nursery-maids proportioned to the work to be done. The re- sponsible duties of upper nurse- maid commence with the weaning of the child: it must now be separated from the mother or wet-nurse, at least for a time, and the cares of the nurse, which have hitherto been only occasion- ally put in requisition, are now to be entirely devoted to the infant. She washes, dresses, and feeds it; walks out with it, and regulates all its little wants ; and, even at this early age, many good qualities are required to do so in a satisfactory manner. Patience and good temper are indispen- sable qualities; truthfuless,purity of manners, minute cleanliness, and docility and obedience almost equally so. She ought also to be acquainted with the art of ironing and getting up small fine things, and be handy with her needle. are felt. Children suffer sooner than NURSERY FIRE-GUARD.