933 Jelly of Two Colours. JELLY MOULDED WITH CHERRIES. sugar. Select ripe, nice-looking fruit ; pick off the stalks, unless currants are used, when they are laid in the jelly as they come from the tree. Begin by putting a little jelly at the bottom of the mould, which must harden; then arrange the fruit round the sides of the mould, recollecting that it will be reversed, when turned out; then pour in some more jelly to make the fruit adhere, and when that layer is set, put another row of fruit and jelly until the mould is full. If convenient, put it in ice until required for table, then wring a cloth in boiling water, wrap it round the mould for a minute, and turn the jelly carefully out. Peaches, apricots, plums, apples, &c., are better for being boiled in a little clear syrup before they are laid in the jelly ; strawberries, raspberries, grapes, cherries and currants are put in raw. In winter, when fresh fruits are not obtainable, a very pretty jelly may be made with preserved fruits or brandy cherries ; these, in a bright and clear jelly, have a very pretty effect; of course, unless the jelly be very clear, the beauty of the dish will be spoiled. It may be garnished with the same fruit as is laid in the jelty; for instance, an open jelly with strawberries might have, piled in the centre, a few of the same fruit prettily arranged, or a little whipped cream might be substituted for the fruit. Time.—One layer of jelly should remain in a very cool place until another layer is added, but it should not set quite firm or it will split when cut. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient, with fruit, to fill a quart mould. Seasonable, with fresh fruit, from June to October ; with dried, at any time. 1997-JELLY OF TWO COLOURS. Ingredients.—A 6d. packet of patent calves’ feet gelatine, a few drops of prepared cochineal, sugar, flavouring. Mode.—Make pint of jelly with the gelatine, this being a very easy, economical and cleanly method indeed, flavouring it in any way that may be preferred. Colour one half of the jelly with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and the other half leave as pale as possible. Have ready a mould well wetted in every part; pour in a small quantity of the red jelly, and let this set; when quite firm, pour on it the same quantity of the pale jelly, and let this set ; then proceed in this manner until the mould is full, always taking care to let one JELLY OF TWO COLOURS. . , r ,, ' jelly set before the other is poured in, or the colours would run one into the other. When turned out, the jelly should.