To Purify Water. 1183 one water may contain only £ grain of mineral matter in a gallon of water, another has many grains in the gallon. We call the latter a hard water, and object to it for cooking purposes for several reasons. It tends to make the meat and vegetables cooked in it hard ; it wastes soap ; it deposits “ fur ” on saucepans and kettles. The “fur" is the mineral matter once dissolved in the water, now thrown down in the saucepan (i) because water has boiled away and gone off in steam, leaving behind it the mineral that could not be vaporised ; (2) because carbonate of lime is dissolved only in water that contains carbonic acid gas, and the gas is driven off as soon as the water boils, and long before it has boiled away. It is upon this last reason that the softening of water by boil- ing depends. 2636. Organic impurities.—But hard water, if undesirable, is not dangerous. Admixture of organic matter is dangerous, of animal organic matter more especially. Where surface wells are dug into a porous soil in the neighbourhood of inhabited houses, there is greater danger of such contamination, and water from such a source is seldom fit to drink. River water is often mixed with sewage, and water -that is sufficiently pure in the company’s mains is often made impure through the condition or position of the cistern in which it is stored. 2637. To piii'ify Water.—Water that is unfit to drink is not made in any way better by the addition of spirits, wine or any flavouring matter. It is improved by boiling, which is the only practicable household means of purifying unwholesome water. There is also some reason to believe that marsh water is purified by the addition of some vegetable bitter, of which tea is a convenient example. The Chinese, who habitually drink marsh water, and who do not appear to suffer from the practice, habitually use a decoction of tea leaves. Most of the decoctions and infusions mentioned above as belonging to class i are useful, because the water of which they are made must be boiled, the flavouring •flatter afterwards being added to conceal the insipidity. Boiled water can be aerated by trickling slowly through a small aperture—a cask pierced with pin- holes serves the purpose ; by pouring from one jug to another, if only a small quantity has to be dealt with ; or by some of the aerating filters now in use. 2638. Filters should be resorted to as well as, not instead of, boiling, as a means of purifying bad water. They may act in two ways. First, mechanically, by separating or straining off all suspended matter. Secondly, by exposing sus- pended or dissolved organic matter to the action of oxygen. Besides this, certain filtering substances are used that appear to have some direct action on the water, the nature of which is imperfectly understood. Charcoal in blocks, lumps, or powder is the commonest filtering medium. It must be frequently renewed, cleaned, or reburnt, without which care it becomes useless, or worse: therefore, charcoal filters, where the charcoal cannot be got at, are open to grave objection. The filters must be left empty at least once in the twenty-four hours. Spongy iron filters are well-known, and are excellent- Silicate of carbon is also good. Sand, sponge, &c., are useful only as strainers in domestic filtration. All filtration is more likely to be useful if it be slow. 2639. The most popular non-alcoholic beverage in this country is tea, now considered almost a necessary of life. Previous to the middle of the 17th century it was not used in England, and it was wholly unknown to the FILTER.