95° Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. of batter, and so making the pancakes thin, the necessity of turning them (an operation rather difficult to unskilful cooks) is obviated. When the pancake is done, sprinkle over it some pounded sugar, roll it up in the pan, and take it out with a large slice, and place it on a dish before the fire. Proceed in this manner until sufficient are cooked for a dish; then send them quickly to table, and continue to send in a further quantity, as pancakes are never good unless eaten almost immediately the}’ come from the frying-pan. The batter may be flavoured with a little grated lemon- rind, or the pancakes may have preserve rolled in them instead of sugar. Send sifted sugar and a cut lernon to table with them. To render the pancakes very light, the yolks and whites of the eggs should be beaten separately, and the whites added the last thing to the batter before frying. Time.—From 4 to 5 minutes for a pancake that does not require turning; from 6 to 8 minutes for a thicker one. Average Cost, for 3 persons, 6d. Sufficient.—Allow 3 eggs, with the other ingredients in proportion, for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday. 2030.—PANCAKES WITHOUT EGGS. Ingredients.—1 pint of mild ale, 4 tablespoonfuls of dried flour, 1 of lard or dripping. Mode.—Put the flour into the ale and beat the mixture 15 minutes. Melt the lard in a small frying-pan, pour in a fourth of the batter at a time and fry both sides a pale brown colour. Sprinkle moist sugar between the cakes, and pile them on each other. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. Sufficient for 4 pancakes. Seasonable when eggs are scarce. 2031.-RICHER PANCAKES. (Fr.—Crepes.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, 1 pint of cream, £ lb. of loaf sugar, x glass ol sherry, \ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, flour. Mode.—Ascertain that the eggs are extremely fresh, beat them well, strain and mix with them the cream, pounded sugar, wine, nutmeg, and as much flour as will make the batter nearly as thick as that for ordinary pancakes. Make the frying-pan hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, pour in sufficient batter to make a thin pancake, and fry it for about 5 minutes. Dish the pancakes piled one above the other, strew sifted sugar between them, and serve. Time.—About 5 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient to make 8 pancakes. Seasonable at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday.