140 Recipes for Soups. 279.—VEGETABLE STOCK. Ingredients.—3 carrots, 2 onions, i leek, 2 turnips, the outside leaves of a stick of celery, 1 lettuce, 6 oz. of butter, a bunch of mixed herbs, pepper and- salt, a few cloves and mace to taste, and a pinch of sugar; 2 tomatoes, when they can be had, are an improvement; 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut the vegetables small, and toss them in the butter for half an hour, then add the lettuce, shred herbs and seasoning and the water, and let the whole stew gently for hour; then strain through a cloth. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable at any time. 280.—FISH STOCK. (Fr.— Bouillon.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of any kind of fish that is cheap, such as skate, plaice, flounders or small eels, or the trimming and heads of uncooked fish, a head of celery, a root of parsley, a blade or two of mace, a bay leaf, a few cloves and white pepper and salt to taste ; 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Put the whole into a pan, and let it simmer gently for a couple of hours ; then strain off the liquor. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 3i. per quart. Seasonable at any time. 281.—BROWNING FOR STOCK. (Fr.-Caramel.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of powdered sugar, and £ a pint of water. Mode.—Place the sugar in a stewpan over a slow fire, until it begins to melt, keeping it stirred with a wooden spoon until it becomes black, when add the water gradually, off the fire, and let it dissolve. Cork closely, and use a few drops when required. Sutton’s “ Browning,” for soups, etc., is the best bought preparation for colouring, it imparting no unpleasant taste. Note.—In France, burnt onions and roux are used for the purpose of browning. 282.—TO CLARIFY STOCK. (Fr.—Bouillon Clarifie.) Ingredients.—The whites of 2 eggs, ^ a pint of water, 2 quarts stock. Mode.—Supposing that by some accident the soup is not quite clear, and that its quantity is 2 quarts, take the whites and shells of 2 eggs, carefully separated from their yolks, whisk them well together with the water, and still whisking, add them gradually to the 2 quarts of stock, which must be just warmed. Place the soup on the fire and whisk it well; when boiling draw it to the side of the fire, and let it stand until the whites of the eggs become separated and a good scum has formed. Pass through a fine cloth, and the soup should be clear. Finely scraped lean meat is also used for clarifying, in the proportion of i a lb. to 2 quarts of stock; or eggs and meat together can be used. The meat greatly improves the flavour. It is a good plan to add also a few fresh vegetables cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs.