Jg6 General Observations on Puddings and Pastry. replaces egg only to a small extent. The egg-powders and custard-powders art starchy preparations, coloured yellow and flavoured. 1664. Spices are best bought whole, as they are then less likely to be adul- terated, and without adulteration they soon lose flavour if exposed to the air They should always be kept in an air-tight tin or bottle. 1665. In Pastry making, the quality to be desired is lightness, and this depends on the amount of air in the pastry before and the expansion of the air after it is put in the oven. Therefore the best pastry is that which contains the greatest quantity of the coldest air before it is baked. The foldings and the rollings, with which we are all familiar, has this increase of air in view. The difference between flaky and short crust is that in one there are thin layers of air and pastry alternat- ing, and in the other the air fills small cavities all over the pastry. To make the air cold, pastry should always be made in a cold place, with cold water, on ice if possible ; and paste that is set aside to wait between rollings or before baking should stand on ice or on a cold stone. Cooks with a hot hand should mix paste with a knife. Pastry should be rolled lightly, the rolling-pin often lifted and little pressed upon. It should not be turned over or thrown about. Any pieces that are left over should be laid one over the other and rolled flat, not rolled into a ball as the common practice is. Eggs are used to increase the tenacity of the paste, and so hold more air, or if, as sometimes happens, the white is whisked to a froth, it contains a great deal of air which it carries with it into the paste. Baking-powder has the same effect in pastry and in bread, where its action has been more or less fully described. If it is used, it should be for pastry baked at once and little handled—that is for short rather than for flaky crust. 1666. Strict Cleanliness must be observed in pastry-making; all the utensils used should be perfectly free from dust and dirt, and the things required for pastry kept entirely for that purpose. 1667. In mixing Paste, add the water very gradually, work the whole together with the knife-blade, and knead as lightly as possible until perfectly smooth. Those who are inexperienced in pastry-making should work the butter in by breaking it in small pieces, and covering the paste rolled out. It should then be dredged with flour, and the ends folded over and rolled out very thin again ; this process must be repeated until all the butter is used. PASTEBOARD AND KOLLING-PIN. , . ^ 1668. The art of making Paste requires much practice, dexterity and skill; it should be touched as lightly as pos- sible, made with cool hands and in a cool place (a marble slab is better than a board for the purpose), and the coolest part of the house should be se- lected for the process during warm w’eather. 1669. Puff-paste requires a brisk oven, but not too hot, or it would blacken the crust; on the other hand, if the oven be too slack, the paste will be soddened, and PASTE-PINCERS AND JAGGER, FOR ORNAMENTING THE EDGES OF PIE-CRUSTS, will not rise, nor will it have any