1040 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. pepper, 1 oz. of mustard-seed, 1 anchovy, £ oz. 01 cayenne, \ oz. of dried sweet bay leaves. Mode.—Bruise the shalots in a mortar, and put them in a stone jar with the walnut-liquor; place it before the fire, and let it boil until reduced to 2 pints. Then, into another jar, put all the ingredients except the bay- leaves, taking care that they are well bruised, so that the flavour may be thoroughly extracted ; put this also before the fire, and let it boil for 1 hour, or rather more. When the contents of both jars are sufficiently cooked, mix them together, stirring them well as you mix them, and submit them to a slow boiling for half an hour ; cover closely, and let them stand for 24 hours in a cool place ; then open the jar and add the bay-leaves; let it stand a week longer, closed down, when strain through a flannel bag, and it will be ready for use. The above quantities will make half a gallon. Time.—Altogether, 3 hours. Seasonable.—This sauce may be made at any time. 2255. —TOMATO SAUCE FOR KEEPING. {Excellent.) Ingredients.—To every quart of tomato-pulp allow 1 pint of cayenne vinegar, No. 685, f oz. of shalots, f oz. of garlic, peeled and cut in slices ; salt to taste. To every 6 quarts of liquor, 1 pint of soy, 1 pint of anchovy sauce. Mode. —Gather the tomatoes quite ripe; bake them in a slow oven till tender; rub them through a sieve, and to every quart of pulp add cayenne vinegar, shalots, garlic and salt, in the above proportion; boil the whole together till the garlic and shalots are quite soft; then rub it through a sieve ; put it again into a saucepan, and to every 6 quarts of the liquor add 1 pint of soy and the same quantity of anchovy sauce, and boil together for about 20 minutes ; bottle off for use, and carefully seal or rosin the corks. This will keep good for 2 or 3 years, but will be fit for use in a week. A useful and less expensive sauce may be made by omitting the anchovy and soy. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour. Average Cost, is. 8d. per pint. Seasonable.—Make this from the middle of September to the end of October. 2256. -TOMATO SAUCE FOR KEEPING. {Another Mode. Excellent.) Ingredients.—1 dozen tomatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls of the best powdered ginger, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, 1 head of garlic chopped fine, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, 1 dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar (a small quantity of cayenne may be substituted for this).