Fish Carving. 281 602.—CURRIED SALMON. (Fr.—Saumon a I’lndienne.) Ingredients.—Any remains of boiled salmon, £ pint of strong or medium stock, No. 273; 1 onion, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 tea- spoonful of Worcester sauce, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 oz. of butter, the juice of half a lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut up the onions into small pieces, and fry them of a pale brown in the butter; add all the ingredients but the salmon, and simmer gently till the onion is tender, occasionally stirring the contents ; cut the salmon into small square pieces, carefully take away all skin and bone, lay it in the stewpan, and let it gradually heat through; but do not allow it to boil long. Time.—$ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fish. 9d. 602A.— SCALLOPS AND MUSHROOMS. Ingredients.—6 large flap mushrooms, 6 fish, a little white sauce, pepper, salt, milk, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Remove the mushroom stalks and bake them in the butter. Stew the fish in milk till done, then chop them up with seasoning and mix in a little sauce. Fill the mushrooms, which should be turned head down- wards, with the white part of the scallops, and pile the minced red part in the centre of each. Serve hot. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. Seasonable in autumn. Sufficient for 4 persons. - GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING FISH. In Carving Fish, care should be taken to help it in perfect flakes, as if these are broken, the beauty of the fish is lost. The carver should be acquainted, too, with the choicest parts. Steel knives and forks should, on no account, be used in helping fish, as these are liable to impart to it a very disagreeable flavour. 603.—COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. First run the knife along the centre of the side of the fish, namely, from d to b, down to the bone; then carve it in unbroken slices downwards from d to e, or upwards from d to c, as shown in the engraving. The carver should ask the guests if they would like a portion of the roe, liver and sound. cod’s head and shoulders. Note.—Of this fish, the parts about the backbone and shoulders are the firmest, and most esteemed by connoisseurs. The sound, which lines the fish beneath the backbone, is considered a delicacy, as are also the gelatinous parts about the head and neck.