Chicken Croquettes. 051 lake no pains to attempt the cure of fowls so afflicted; but they who keep chickens for the pleasure, and not for the profit they yield, will be inclined to recover them, if possible. Give them none but warm food, half a peppercorn rolled in a morsel of dough every night, and a little nitre in their water. Above all, keep them warm : a corner in the kitchen fender, for a day or two, will do more to effect a cure than the run of a druggist’s warehouse. 1354.—CROQUETTES OF FOWL. (Fr.—Croquettes de Volaille.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—£ a fowl, lean ham or bacon, mushrooms, mushroom- powder or truffles, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, £ pint of stock or milk, 1 oz. of flour or cornflour, i£ oz. of butter, lemon, nutmeg, cayenne, salt to taste, 1 egg, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Cut up the meat and mushrooms. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the flour and the stock, boil, flavour to taste and put in the cream and meat. When quite cold shape into balls, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in fat or oil. Serve with garnish of fried parsley, or else pour a good white sauce round and fill up the centre with some dressed vegetable. Time.—To make, 15 minutes; to shape and fry, £ hour. Average Cost, 25. Seasonable at any time. 1355 -CROQUETTES OF FOWL. (Fr.—Croquettes de Volaille.) (A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—3 or 4 shalots, 1 oz. of butter, I teaspoonful of flour, white sauce, pepper, salt and pounded mace to taste; | teaspoonful of pounded sugar, the remains of cold roast fowls, the yolks of 2 eggs, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode.—Mince the fowl, carefully removing all skin and bone, and fry the shalots in the butter; add the minced fowl, dredge in the flour, put in the pepper, salt, mace, pounded sugar, and sufficient white sauce to moisten it; stir to it the yolks of 2 well-beaten eggs, and set it by to cool. Then make the mixture up into balls, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a nice brown. They may be served on a border of mashed potatoes, with gravy or sauce in the centre. Time.—10 minutes to fry the balls. Seasonable at any time. The Turn —What is termed “turrling” with song-birds is known, as regards fowls, as the “turn.” Its origin is the same in both cases—overfeeding and want of exercise. Without a moment's warning, a fowl so afflicted will totter and fall from its perch, and, unless assistance be at hand, speedily give up the ghost. The veins of the palate should be opened, and a few drops of a mixture composed of six parts of sweet nitre and one of ammonia poured down its throat. I have seen ignorant keepers plunge a bird stricken with the “ turn,” into cold water: but I never saw it taken out again alive ; and for a good reason: the sudden chill has the effect of driving the blood to the head—of aggravating the disease, indeed, instead of relieving it.