784 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. several waters with a brush, until not a particle of sand or grit remains on them; wrap each truffle in buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for quite an hour! take off the paper, wipe the truffles, and serve them in a hot napkin. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. The Common Truffle.—This is the Tuber cibarium ot science, and belongs to that numerous class of esculent fungi distinguished from other vegetables not only by the singularity of their forms, but by their chemical composition. Upon analysis, they are found not only to contain the usual components of the vegetable kingdom, such as carbon, oxy- gen and hydrogen, but likewise a large proportion of nitrogen ; from which they approach more nearly to the nature of animal flesh. It was long ago observed by Dr. Darwin, that all the mush- rooms cooked at our tables, as well as those used for ketchup, possessed an animal flavour ; and soup enriched by mushrooms only has sometimes been supposed to contain meat. TRUFFLES. 1639.-TO DRESS TRUFFLES WITH CHAMPAGNE. {Fr.—Truffes au Vin de Champagne.) Ingredients.—12 fine black truffles, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions, a bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 glasses of champagne, ^ pint of stock. Mode.—Carefully select the truffles, reject those that have a musty smell, and wash them well with a brush, in cold water only, until perfectly clean. Put the bacon into a stewpan, with the truffles and the remaining ingredients; simmer these gently for an hour, and let the whole cool in the stewpan. When to be served, re-warm them, and drain them on a clean cloth; then arrange them on a delicately-white napkin, that it may contrast as strongly as possibe with the truffles, and serve. The trimmings of truffles are used to flavour gravies, stock, sauces, &c., and are an excellent addition to ragouts, made-dishes of fowl, &c. Time.—I hour. Average Cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. The Truffle.—The truffle belongs to the family of the mushroom. It is certain that the truffle must possess, equally with other plants, organs of reproduction; yet, notwithstanding all the efforts of art ana science, it has been impossible to subject it lo a regular culture. Truffles grow at a considerable depth under the earth, never appearing on the surface. They are found in many parts of France: those of Perigord and Magny are the most esteemed for their odour. There are three varieties of the species, the black, the red and the white ; the latter are of little value. The red are very rarm and their use is restricted. The black has the highest repute and its consump- tion is enormous. When the peasantry go to gather truffles, they take a pig with them to scent out the spot where they grow. When that is found, the pig turns up the surface with his snout and the men then dig until they find the truffles. Good truffles are easily distinguished by their agree- able perfume ; they should be light in proportion to their size and elastic when pressed by the finger. To have them in perfection, they should be quite fresh, as their aroma is considerably diminished by any conserving process. Truffles are stimulating and heating. Weak stomachs digest thein with difficulty. Some of the culinary uses to which they are subjected render them more digest- ible : but they should always be eaten sparingly. Their chief use is in seasoning and garnitures.