624 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. Serve very hot, with either mushroom sauce or a good gravy. Pigeons may also be plainly boiled, and served with parsley and butter ; they should be trussed like boiled fowls, and take from a quarter of an hour to 20 minutes to boil. Time.—To broil a pigeon, from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes; to boil one, the same time. Average Cost, from 9d. to is. each. Seasonable from August to April, but in the greatest perfection in winter. The Pouter Pigeon.—This is a very favourite pigeon, and, without doubt, the most curious of his species. He is a tall, strong bird, as he had need be to carry about his great inflated crop, frequently as large and as round as a middling-sized turnip. A perfect pouter, seen on a the pouter pigeon. windy day, is certainly a ludicrous sight: his feathered legs have the appearance of white trousers ; his tapering tail looks like a swallow- tailed coat; his head is entirely concealed by his immense windy protuberance ; and, altogether, he reminds you of a little “swell ” of a past century, staggering under a bale of linen. The most common pouters are the blues, buffs and whites, or an intermixture of all these various colours. The pouter is not a prolific breeder, a bad nurse, and more likely to degenerate, if not repeatedly crossed and recrossed with fresh stock, than any other pigeon ; nevertheless, it is a useful bird to keep if you are founding a new colony, as it is much attached to its home, and little apt to stray; consequently it is calculated to induce more restless birds to settle down and make themselves comfortable. If you wish to breed pouters, you cannot do worse than entrust them with the care of their own eggs. 1318.—ROAST PIGEONS. (Fr.—Pigeons Roties.) Ingredients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Wipe the birds very dry, season them inside with pepper and salt, and put about three-quarters oz. of butter into the body of each ; this makes them moist. Put them down to a bright fire, and baste them well the whole of the time they are cooking (they will be done enough in from twenty to thirty minutes); garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a tureen of parsley and butter. Bread sauce and gravy, the same as for roast fowl, are exceedingly nice accompaniments to roast pigeons, as also egg-sauce. Time.—From 20 minutes to hour. Average Cost, 9d. to is. each. Sufficient, 1 pigeon for each person. Seasonable from August to April; but in the greatest perfection from Michaelmas to Christmas. Note.—Pigeon, to be good, should be eaten fresh (if kept a little, the flavour goes ofl), and they should be drawn as soon as killed. Cut off the heads and necks, truss the wings over the backs, and cut off the toes at the first joint ; previous to trussing, they should be carefully cleaned, as no bird requires so much washing. The Pigeon.—The pigeon tribe forms a connecting link between the passerine birds and poultry. They are widely distributed over the world, some of the species being found even in the arctic regions. Their chief food is grain, and they drink much ; not at intervals, like other ROAST PIGEON.