Victoria, Sandwiches. 963 Seasonable at any time.. 2056.—VANILLA CREAM. (Fv.—Creme a la Vanille.) Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of gelatine, flavouring to taste of essence of vanilla. Mode.—Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, and let it get hot over a slow fire ; beat up the yolks of the eggs, to which add gradually the sweetened milk; flavour the whole with essence of vanilla, put the mixture into a jug and place this jug in a sauce- pan of boiling water. Stir the contents with a wooden spoon one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will be full of lumps. Take it off the fire ; stir in the gelatine, which should be previously dissolved in about a quarter of a pint of water, simmering for 2 or 3 minutes; pour the cream into an oiled mould, put it in a cool place to set, and turn it out carefully on a dish. Instead of using the essence of vanilla, a pod may be boiled in the milk instead until the flavour is well extracted. A pod, or a pod and a half, will be found suffi- cient for the above proportion of ingredients. Time.—About 10 minutes to stir the mixture. Average Cost, with the best gelatine, is. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. Vanille, or Vanilla is the fruit of the vanillier, a parasitical herbaceous plant, which flourishes in Brazil, Mexico, and Peru. The fruit is a long capsule, thick and fleshy. Certain species of this fruit contain a pulp with a delicious perfume and flavour. Vanilla is principally imported from Mexico. The capsules for export are always picked at perfect maturity. The essence is the form in which it is used generally and most conveniently. Its properties are stimulating and exciting. It is in daily use for ices, chocolates, and flavouring confections generally. 2057.—VICTORIA SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—4 eggs, their weight in pounded sugar, butter and flour; £ saltspoonful of salt, a layer of any kind of jam, or marmalade. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; dredge in the flour and pounded sugar • stir these ingredients well together, and add the eggs, which should be previously thoroughly whisked. When the mixture has been well beaten for about 10 minutes, butter a Yorkshire-pudding tin, pour in the batter, and bake it in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Let it cool, spread one half of the cake with a layer of nice preserve, place over it the other half of the cake, press the pieces slightly together, and then cut into lo-ng finger-pieces; pile them in cross bars on a glass dish and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, is. $d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.