Sudden Illness. 1593 3572. Bruises.—These are caused by blows, the skin remaining unbroken. Treatment.—Apply tincture of arnica, spirit and water, vinegar or sal-ammoniac and water. The following is a useful combination Chloride of ammonium (sal-ammoniac), one ounce; rectified spirit, lavender water, or eau_de-cologne, two ounces ; vinegar, three ounces; water to make sixteen ounces. Rags dipped in this should be laid over the bruise and kept constantly wet. 3573. Choking.—Treatment.—If the substance causing choking be at the upper part of the throat thrust the finger and thumb into the mouth and endeavour to seize it. If this cannot be done, take a penholder, a quill, or piece of whalebone—anything, in fact, that will do, and endeavour to push it down the gullet. A smart blow on the back will sometimes dislodge a foreign body from the throat. 3574. Concussion of the Brain.—Treatment —Move the patient as little as possible ; remove all tight articles from the neck. Apply hot bottles to the feet and sides, or hot bricks wrapped in flannel and a mustard poultice or mustard leaf over the stomach. 3575. Croup.—Treatment.—Take the child out of bed and put it into a bath of ioo° Fahr. and keep it there for half an hour or wrap it in a sheet wrung out of warm water, with dry blankets on top, and keep it in this for an our. Give a teaspoonful of ipecacuanha wine every quarter of an hour in tepid wa • and give drinks of tepid water between till vomiting takes p ace. eep e atmosphere moist by causing steam to pass into the room. 3576. Dislocations.—Treatment.—If medical assistance is at hand domot touch a dislocation: in any case do not use or submit to rough handling, skilled assistance cannot be had, get some one to seize the part of the limb nearest the body, and then apply gentle, steady traction upon that furthest removed. 3577. Drowning.—Treatment.— Place the patient on the floor or ground with the face downward, and one of the arms under forehead. I here e only slight breathing, or no breathing, or if the breathing fail, then turn the patient instantly on the side, supporting the head, and excite the nostrils with snuff hartshorn and smelling salts, or tickle the throat with a feather. Rub the chest and face warm, and dash cold water or cold and hot water alternately on them. If there be no success, imitate breathing and, in order to do this, place the patient on his back, supporting the head and shoulders on a small, firm cushion or folded article of dress. Draw the tongue forward and slip an elastic band over it and under the chin, or tie a piece of string or tape in the same way. Grasp the arms ju;t above the elbows and draw them gently and steadily upwards above the head and keep them stretched upwards for two seconds; then turn them down and force them gently and firmly for two seconds against the sides of the chest. Repeat these measures about fifteen times in a minute. When breathing is restored, rub the limbs upwards with firm grasping pressure and energy, using handkerchiefs, flannels, &c. Apply hot flannels or bottles, bladders of hot water or heated bricks to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs and to the soles of the feet. On the restoration of life a teaspoonful of warm water should be given, and then small quantities of warm coffee. 3578. Epilepsy.—Treatment.—At the onset of a fit the patient should be caught in the arms of a bystander and laid gently down upon his back, with something under his head for a pillow, and everything tight should be removed from his neck. Insert a cork between the teeth to prevent the tongue being bitten, then wait patiently till the fit is over.