324 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 7H— GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. (Fn—Pur<§e de Groseilles.) (For Boiled Mackerel.) Ingredients.—I pint of green gooseberries, 3 tablespoonfuls of becha- mel, No. 665 (veal gravy maybe substituted for this); 2 oz. of fresh butter, seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mode.—Boil the gooseberries in water until quite tender; strain them, and rub them through a sieve. Put into a saucepan the Bechamel or gravy, with the butter and seasoning; add the pulp from the goose- berries, mix all well together, and heat gradually through. A little pounded sugar added to this sauce is by many persons considered an improvement, as the saccharine matter takes off the extreme acidity of the unripe fruit. Rhubarb sauce can be made in the same way. Time.—Boil the gooseberries from 20 minutes to £ hour. Sufficient, this quantity, for a large dish of mackerel. Seasonable from May to July. The Gooseberry.—This useful and wholesome fruit (Ribes grossu- laria) is thought to be indigenous to the British Isles, and may be occasionally found in a wild state in some of the eastern counties, although, when uncultivated, it is but a very small and inferior berry. The high state of perfection to which it has been here brought, is due to the skill of the English gardeners ; for in no other country does it attain the same size and flavour. The humidity of the British climate, however, has doubtless something to do with the result; and it is said that gooseberries produced in Scotland as far north as Inverness, are of a very superior character. Malic and citric acid blended with sugar, produce the most pleasant flavour of the gooseberry ; and upon the proper development oi these properties depends the success of all cooking operations with which they are connected. 715.-GLAZE FOR COVERING COLD HAMS, TONGUES, &c. (Fr.—Glace de Viande.) Ingredients.—Stock No. 272 or 276, doubling the quantity of meat in each. Mode.—We may remark, at the outset, that unless glaze is wanted in very large quantities, it is seldom made expressly. Either of the stocks mentioned above, boiled down and reduced very considerably, will be found to produce a very good glaze. Put the stock into a stewpan, over a nice clear fire; let it boil till it becomes somewhat stiff, when keep stirring, to prevent its burning. The moment it is sufficiently reduced, and comes to a glaze, turn it out into the glaze-pot, of which we have here given an engraving. As, however, this is not to be found in every establishment, a white earthenware jar would answer the purpose ; and