Essence of Coffee. iigi putting in the scraped chocolate, pouring over it the boiling milk and water, and milling it over the fire until hot and frothy. Sufficient.—Allow ^ oz. of cake chocolate to each person. Chocolate and Cocoa.—Both these preparations are made from the seeds, or beans, of the cocoa-tree, which grows in the West Indies and South America. The Spanish, and the proper name, is cacao, not cocoa, as it is generally spelt. From this mistake, the tree from which the beverage is procured has often been confounded with the palm that pro- duces the edible cocoa-nuts, which are the produce of the cocoa-tree (Cocos nucifcra), whereas the tree from which chocolate is procured is very different 'the Theobroma cacao). The cocoa-tree was cultivated by the aboriginal inhabitants of South America, particularly in Mexico where, according to Humboldt, it was reared by Montezuma. It was trans- lanted thence into other dependencies of the Spanish monarchy in 1520- and it was so ighly esteemed by Linnteus as to receive from him the name now conferred upon it, of Theobroma, a term derived from the Greek, and signifying "food for gods.” Chocolate has always been a favourite beverage among the Spaniards and Creoles, and was con- sidered here as a great lusury when first introduced, after the discovery of America ; but the high duties laid upon it confined it long almost entirely to the wealthier classes. Before it was subjected to duty, Mr. Bryan Edwards stated that cocoa plantations were numerous in Jamaica, but that the duty caused their almost entire ruin. The removal of this duty has in- creased the cultivation. (For Engraving of cocoa-bean, see No. 1197). 2663.—TO MAKE ESSENCE OF COFFEE. (Fr.—Cafe.) Ingredients.—To every £ lb. of ground coffee allow 1 small teaspoon- ful of powdered chicory, 3 small teacupfuls, or 1 pint, of water. Mode.—Let the coffee be freshly ground, and, if possible, freshly roasted; put it into a percolator, or filter, with the chicory, and pour slowly over it the above proportion of boiling water. When it has all filtered through, warm the coffee sufficiently to bring it to the simmering- point, but do not allow it to boil; then filter it a second time, put it into a clean and dry bottle, cork it well, and it will remain good for several days. Two tablespoonfuls of this essence are quite sufficient for a breakfastcupful of hot milk. This essence will be found particularly useful to those persons who have to rise extremely early; and having only the milk to make boiling, it is very easily and quickly prepared. When the essence is bottled, pour another 3 teacupfuls of boiling water slowly on the grounds, which, when filtered through, will be a very weak coffee. The next time there is essence to be prepared, make this weak coffee boiling, and pour it on the ground coffee instead of plain water ; by this means a better coffee will be obtained. Never throw away the grounds without having made use of them in this manner; and always cork the bottle well that contains this preparation, until the day that it is wanted for making the fresh essence. Prepared coffee essence can now be bought at a reasonable price, and of good quality. It needs to be mixed with boiling water or milk. Time.—To be filtered once, then brought to the boiling-point, and filtered again. Average Cost, with coffee at is. 8d. per lb., 6d. Sufficient —Allow a tablespoonfuls for a breakfastcupful of hot milk. ESSENCE OF COFFEE.