Washing and Dressing of Infants. 1605 brought to the side again, by which the air will be driven from the chest, and the act of expiration be thus imitated. 3649. Washing and Dressing.—Provided there is nothing to hinder it, so soon as the child has been removed, in the flannel receiver already referred to, the process of washing and dressing may be at once begun. The various articles of clothing which is to be put on the child should have been hung upon a chair at the commencement of labour in proximity to the fire. The child is generally washed upon the nurse’s knee, the basin with soap and water being placed upon the floor, but it is better, if it can be done, to use an oval wooden bath, having a place scooped out at one end to allow of the child’s head being supported during the process. The bath should be sufficiently filled with warm water to cover the body, by which means it will not be exposed to the influence of the atmosphere till ready to be dried. The soap that is employed should be of the most unirritating kind, and great care must be taken that none is allowed to enter the infant’s eyes. Many of the inflammatory affections of the eyes occurring in infants may be traced to carelessness in this respect. If the body at birth is covered with a soft, cheesy-looking substance, it had better be anointed with lard preparatory to washing, as soap and water alone will not remove it. When the process of washing is over, the infant should be laid upon a pillow covered with warm cloths upon the nurse’s knee and dried by means of warm soft towels. A piece of soft old linen should then be taken and a hole cut in the centre. Through this the cord should be drawn, and the lower part folded up against the other, so as to be brought in contact with the child’s abdomen. It will thus lie between the two folds of linen. The cord is maintained in position by means of the flannel binder, which should now be applied. The binder is on no account 10 be too tight. Next to the flannel binder is placed a shirt, which preferably should be made of wool, as it will afford greater protection against cold. Above this the petticoat is placed, and then the infant’s frock or slip. A shawl or piece of flannel shall also be provided to throw over the shoulders. The head is better left without any covering. A linen diaper is next applied, and the process of dressing is complete. 3650. Nursing.—It should be regarded as a part of every mother’s duty to bring up her child at the breast, unless, of course, there are obstacles in the way which prevent her doing so. The only'consideration that ought to weigh with a mother should be the welfare of her child ; if it is her intention of nursing, the allurements of pleasure should not be allowed to interfere with the discharge of her duty. If the breasts are large and the nipples depressed they must be drawn out by suction. Before applying the infant to the breast it should be sponged with tepid water and then dried, and this should be again done when the child has finished suckling. Those who ought not to suckle are women who are consumptive, women who are very nervous and excitable, and those whose, nipples are so depressed that they are obliged to give up all attempts at nursing. The diet of the nursing mother should be wholesome and nourish- ing, while at the same time it is easy of digestion. Stimulants are quite unnecessary and will, in the majority of cases, do more harm than good. Cheer- ful occupation and exercise in the open air have a beneficial effect upon the milk. Personal cleanliness should be attended to, and the clothing should be warm and permit of the most perfect freedom of movement.