475 South-Downs. of Corsica the immediate progenitor of all our European breeds, assumed his present appearance. The Arglli is about a fifth larger in size than the ordinary English sheep, and being a native of a tropical clime his fleece is of hair in- stead of wool, and of a warm reddish brown, approaching to yeUow. a_thick mane of darker hair, about seven inches long, commencing from two long tuft at the angle of the jaws, and, running under the throat and neck, descends down the^chest dividing, at the fore fork, into two parts one running down the tout of each leg, as low as the shank. The horns, unlike the character otf the order generally, have a quadrangular base, and, sweeping mwards, terminate in a sharp point. The tail, about seven inches long, ends in a tuft of stiff hairs From this remarkable muffler-looking beard, the French have given the name of Mouflon d manchettes. From the primitive stock eleven varieties have been reared in this country, of the domesticated sheep, each supposed by their advocates to possess some one or more special qualities- These eleven, em bracing the Shetland or Orkney ; the Dun-woolled ; Black-faced, or hea bred' the Moorland, of Devonshire; the Cheviot; the Horned, of Nor o , the Ryeland ; South-Down ; the Merino ; the Old Leicester and the Teeswater or New Leicester, have of late years been epitomized ; and, for all and practical purposes, reduced to the following four orders;—The South-down, the Leicester, the Black-faced and the Cheviot. 1047. South-Downs.— It appears, as far as our investigation no jrace the fact, that from the very earliest epoch of agricultural history in England, SO SOUTH-DOWN RAM. SOUTH-DOWN EWE. breezy range of light chalky hills running through the south-west and south of Sussex and Hampshire, and known as the South-Downs, has been famous for a superior race of sheep ; and we find the Romans early established mills and a cloth-factory at Winchester, where they may be said to terminate, which rose to such estimation, from the fineness of the wool and texture of the cloth, that the produce was kept as only worthy to clothe emperors. From this, it may be inferred that sheep have always been indigenous to this hilly tract. Though boasting so remote a reputation, it is comparatively w'lthm late years that the improvement and present state of perfection of this breed has been effected, the South-Down now ranking, for symmetry of shape, constitution, and early maturity, with any stock in the kingdom. The South-Down has no horns, :s covered with a fine wool from two to three inches long, has a small head, and legs and face of a grey colour. It is, however, considered deficient in depth and