1548 Management of Nursery and Sick-Room. 3479. The Diet of the Wet-Nurse.—The first point of importance is to fix early and definite hours for every meal ; and the mother should see that no cause is ever allowed to interfere with their punctuality. The food itself should be light, easy of digestion, and simple. Boiled or roast meat, with bread and potatoes, with occasionally a piece of sago, rice, or tapio:a pudding, should constitute the dinner, the only meal that requires special comment ; broths, green vegetables, and all acid or salt foods must be avoided. Fresh fish, once or twice a week, may be taken ; but it is hardly sufficiently nutritious to be often used as a meal. If the dinner is taken early—at one o’clock—there will be no occasion for luncheon, which too often, to the injury of the child, is made the cover for a first dinner. Half a pint of stout, with a Reading biscuit, at eleven o’clock, will be abundantly sufficient between breakfast at eight, and a good dinner, with a pint of porter, at one o’clock. About eight o'clock in the evening, half a pint of stout, with another biscuit, may be taken ; and for supper, at ten or half-past, a pint of porter, with a slice of toast or a small amount of bread and cheese, may conclude the feeding for the day. Animal food once in twenty-four hours is quite sufficient. All spirits, unless in extreme cases, should be avoided; and wine is still more seldom needed. With a due quantity of plain, digestible food, and the proportion of stout and porter ordered, with early hours and regularity, the nurse will not only be strong and healthy herself, but fully capable of rearing a child in health and strength. There are two points all mothers, who are obliged to employ wet-nurses, should remember and be on their guard against. The first is, never to allow a nurse to give medicine to the infant on her own authority ; many have such an infatuated idea of the heading excellence of castor-oil, that they would administer a dose of this disgusting grease twice a week, and think they had done a meritorious service to the child. The next point is, to watch carefully that to insure a night’s sleep for herself, she does not dose the infant with syrup of poppies, or some narcotic potion, to insure tranquillity to the one and give the opportunity of sleep to the other. The fact that scores of nurses keep secret bottles of these deadly syrups, for the purpose of stilling their charges, is notorious; and that many use them to a fearful extent is patent to all. It therefore behoves the mother, while obliged to trust to a nurse, to use her best discretion to guard her child from the unprincipled treat- ment of the person she must, to a certain extent, depend upon and trust; and tc remember, in all cases, rather than resort to castor-oil or sedatives, to con- sult a medical man for her infant in preference to following the counsel of her nurse. THE SICK-NURSE. 3480. Sick Nuraiilp).—All women are likely, at some period of their lives, to be called on to perforin the duties of a sick-nurse, and should prepare them- selves as much as possible, by observation and reading, for the occasion wffien they may be required to fulfil the office. The main requirements are good- temper, compassion for suffering sympathy with sufferers, which most women worthy of the name possess, neat-handedness, quiet manners, love of order, and cleanliness. With these qualifications there will be very little to be wished for; the desire to relieve suffering will inspire a thousand little attentions, and sur- mount the disgusts which some of the offices attending the sick-room are apt to create. Where serious illness visits a household, and protracted nursing is likely to become necessary, a professional nurse will probably be engaged who has been trained to its duties ; but in some families, and those not a few let us hope, the ladies of the family would oppose such an arrangement as a failure of duty on their part. There is, besides, eyen ty^en a professional nurse is ultH