1036 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. set it in a dry warm place. Shake it regularly every day for a month when it will be ready to use. Note.—The mango pickle may be omitted. 2244.-BENGAL RECIPE FOR MAKING MANGO CHETNEY. Ingredients.—lb. of moist sugar, f lb. of salt, £ lb. of garlic, £ lb. of onions, \ lb. of powdered ginger, J lb. of dried chilies, f lb. of mustard- seed, | lb. of stoned raisins, 2 bottles of best vinegar, 30 large unripe sour apples. Mode.—The sugar must be made into syrup ; the garlic, onions and ginger be finely pounded in a mortar: the mustard-seed be washed in cold vinegar, and dried in the sun ; the apples be peeled, cored, and sliced and boiled in a bottle and a half of the vinegar. When all this is done, and the apples are quite cold, put them into a large pan, and gradually mix the whole of the rest of the ingredients, including the remaining half-bottle of vinegar. It must be well stirred until the whole is thoroughly blended, and then put into bottles for use. Tie a piece of wet bladder over the mouths of the bottles, after they are well corked. This chetney is very superior to any which can be bought, and one trial will prove it to be delicious. Note.—This recipe was given by a native to an English lady who had long been a resident in India, and who, since her return to her native country, has become quite celebrated amongst her friends for the excellence of this Eastern relish. Garllo. (Fr.—Ail.)—The smell of this plant is generally considered offensive, and it is the most acrimonious in its taste of the whole of the alliaceous tribe. In 1548 it was introduced into England from the shores of the Mediterranean, where it is abundant, and in Sicily it grows naturally. garlic. It was in greater repute with our ancestors than it is with ourselves, although it is still used as aseasoning herb. On the Continent, especia ly in Italy, it is much used, and the French consider it an essential in many made-dishes. It is generally sufficient to cut a clove of garlic and with it to rub the dish on which the substance to be flavoured is going to be served. 2245.-INDIAN CHETNEY SAUCE. Ingredients.—8 oz. of sharp, sour apples, pared and cored, 8 oz. of tomatoes, 8 oz. of salt, 8 oz. of brown sugar, 8 oz. of stoned raisins, 40Z. of cayenne, 4 oz. of powdered ginger, 2 oz. of garlic, 2 oz. of shalots, 3 quarts of vinegar, 1 quart of lemon-juice. Mode.—Chop the apples in small square pieces, and add to them the other ingredients. Mix the whole well together, and put in a well-covered jar. Keep this is a warm place, and stir every day for a month, taking care to put on the lid after this operation; strain, but do not squeeze it