38 A rrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. appliances of various kinds desirable or necessary for kitchen use, it has been determined, after careful consideration, to make mention of the firms by whom they are manufactured and to point out where they may be readily procured. Attention has been directed to these articles because they have been subjected to practical tests and proved to be truly good and useful, and, this being the case, it is obviously of the utmost importance to the readers of this work that they should be put in possession of the names and addresses of those who make them and those who sell them. But, although it is certain that the articles mentioned are eminently suitable for the purposes for which each is designed, there is no intention whatever of saying that similar articles manufactured and supplied by other makers and dealers are not as good or as serviceable, or of holding up to notice those that are mentioned to the depreciation and disparagement of those that are not. THE FITTINGS, FIXTURES & FURNITURE OF THE KITCHEN. 66. The Fittings.— Under this title, let us glance briefly at the finish of the several surfaces within which the cubic space of the apartment itself is in- cluded : namely, the ceiling, the walls, and the floor. There is more wear and tear and more injury from causes that tend to soil and disfigure in the kitchen than in any other part of the house, and care should therefore be taken to guard against the former as much as possible, and to render the effacement of the latter as easy and as speedy as possible. This will be best attained by having all surfaces found in the kitchen coated with varnish, because all soils, smears, and grease marks on varnished surfaces do not penetrate into the material and stain it, and, being merely superficial, can be removed at any time by aid of a damp cloth. (i.) The Ceiling.—Let this surface be papered with a washable paper and varnished. White paper, or paper of a creamy or very pale blue tint should be used, for it must be borne in mind that the whiter the ceiling the greater will be its capacity to reflect light and therefore to render the apartment lighter. (2.) The Walls.—In a kitchen, of all rooms, it is most desirable that the walls should be divided into two parts, the dado, and what, for convenience sake may be called the superdado, by a horizontal chair rail placed at chair height, or at any distance above chair height that may he considered to be more convenient. The chair rail should not be a mere make-believe in paper, or stencil, or paint, but a solid rail of wood projecting from the surface of the wall for at least an inch and a half, so as to form a fender between the wall itself, and any person or thing that may come or be brought into contact with it at that height. Below the chair rail, the portion of the walls that constitute the dado should be panelled or match- boarded, the former being preferable, and the woodwork should be either simply sized and varnished, or stained and varnished, or grained, the graining being finished with a coat of varnish. Paint should never be used in a kitchen, because paint is not protected by a final coat of varnish, and is therefore liable to destruc- tion and ultimate removal by frequent washing with hot water, soap and soda, the bane of all painted surfaces. The superdado above the chair rail may be papered according to taste, but with a washing paper, which, when the paper- hanger has done his work, should also be varnished. (3). Varnished Work in Kitchen.—It cannot be too strongly insisted on that everything found in a kitchen, whether fittings, fixtures, or furniture, should present a varnished exterior. Varnished work may be a little more costly than ordinary painting, but its durability and cleanly appearance after being wiped