Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 820 Mods.—Pat the bread-crumbs at the bottom of a pie-dish, then over them a layer of jam of any kind that may be preferred ; mix the milk and eggs-together; add the sugar, butter and pounded almonds; beat all well together ; pour it into the dish and bake in a moderate oven for i hour. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. to is. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1722.-BABA AU RHUM. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, £ oz. of German yeast, | lb. of butter, 7 or 8 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, £ lb. of raisins, sultanas and currants, mixed ; 2 oz. of candied peel, a pinch of salt. For the sauce, | pint of rum, half a pot of apricot or any other suitable jam; | pint of water, £ lb. of sugar. Mode.—Put one quarter of the flour to rise with theyeast, salt and enough warm water to make a sponge. Mix the other ingredients in a large basin, adding the eggs one by one and beating it thoroughly with the hand until it is full of bubbles. When the sponge has risen (it should be set for 1 to 2 hours) mix that in also and beat again. Butter a fiat round tin, or small tins, put in the cake and, when it has risen by the side of the fire to double its size, bake it in a good oven and turn it out. For the sauce, boil the sugar and water to a syrup, add the jam, and strain. Then put in the rum and let it just boil. Serve with the baba. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 1723.—BARONESS PUDDING. (Author's Recipe.) Ingredients.—f lb. of suet, f lb. of raisins, weighed after being stoned ; | lb. of flour, pint of milk, £ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Prepare the suet, by carefully freeing it from skin, and chop it finely; stone the raisins and cut them in halves, and mix both these in- gredients with the salt and flour ; moisten the whole with the above pro- portion of milk, stir the mixture well and tie the pudding in a floured cloth which has been previously wrung out in boiling water. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water and let it boil, without ceasing, 4^ hours. Serve merely with plain sifted sugar, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding. Time.—4^ hours. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. Note.—This pudding the Editress cannot too highly recommend. The recipe was kindly given to her family by a lady who bore the title here prefixed to it: