Hawking. 671 1385. The Heron was hunted by the Hawk, and the sport of hawking is usually placed at the head of those amusements that can only be practised in the country. This precedency it probably obtained from its being a pastime so generally followed by the nobility, not in Great Britain only, but likewise on the Continent. In former times, persons of high rank rarely appeared in public without their dogs and their hawks ; the latter they carried with them when they journeyed from one country to another, and sometimes even took them to battle with them, and would not part with them when taken prisoners, even to obtain their own liberty. Such birds were esteemed as the ensigns of nobility, and no action was reckoned more dishonourable in a man of tank than that of giving up his hawk. We have already alluded to the hunting propen• sities of our own Edward III., and we may also allude to his being equally addicted to hawking. According to Froissart, when this sovereign invaded France, he took with him thirty falconers on horseback, who had charge of his hawks, and every day, as his royal fancy inclined him, he either hunted, or went to the river for the purpose of hawking. In the great and powerful, the pursuit of game as a sport is allowable, but in those who have to earn their bread by the sweat of their brow, it is to be condemned. In Burton’s “ Anatomy of Melancholy,” we find a humorous story, told by Poggius, the Florentine, who reprobates this folly in such persons. It is thus : A physician of Milan, that cured madmen, had a pit of water in his house, in which he kept his patients, some up to the knees, some to the girdle, some to the chin, pro moao insania, as they were more or less affected. One of them by chance, that was well recovered, stood in the door, and seeing a gallant pass by with a hawk on his fist, well mounted, with his spaniels after him, would needs know to what use all this preparation served. He made answer, To kill certain fowl. The patient demanded again, what his fowl might be worth which he killed in a year ? He replied, Five or ten crowns; and when he urged him further, what his dogs, horse and hawks stood him in, he told him four hundred crowns. With that the patient bade him begone, as he loved his life and welfare; " for if our master come and find thee here, he will put thee in the pit, amongst the mad- men, up to the chin.” Thus reproving the madness of such men as will spend themselves in those vain sports, to the neglect of their business and necessary affairs. 1386. As the inevitable Hesult of Social Progress is, at least, to limit, if not entirely to suppress, such sports as w'e have here been treating of, much of the romance of the country life has passed away. This is more especially the case with falconry, which had its origin about the middle of the fourth century, although lately some attempts have been rather successfully made to institute a revival of the " gentle art” of hawking. Julius Firmicus, who lived about that time, is, so far as we can find, the first Latin author who speaks of falconers, and the art of teaching one species of birds to fly after and catch others. The occupation of these functionaries has now, however, all but ceased. New and nobler efforts characterise the aims of mankind in the development of their civilisation, and the sports of the field have, to a large extent, been super- seded by other exercises, it may be less healthful and invigorating, but certainly more elegant, intellectual and humanising. 1387. The Wild Birds, of which we have now to speak, are protected by the law, and may only be killed or sold during some months of the year. In a country so thickly populated as England they would otherwise soon be ex- terminated. It is, however, more as a matter of custom than as a matter of fact, that we speak of all game as wild, for thousands of birds are bred, like barn-door fowls, and turned loose for sport in the autumn.