Recipes for the Valet. RECIPES FOR THE VALET. 3354.-BOOT-CLEANING. We need hardly dwell on the boot-cleaning process : three good brushes and good blacking must be provided ; one of the brushes hard, to brush off the mud; the other soft, to lay on the blacking; the third of a medium Tnf ^ss’ ^or polishing; and each should be kept for its particular use. The biackmg should be kept corked up, except when in use, and applied ° ^ e iush with a sponge tied to a stick, which, when put away, rests in a notch cut in the cork. When boots come in very muddy, it is a good practice to wash off the mud, and wipe them dry with a sponge; then leave them to dry very gradually on their sides, taking care they are not placed near the fire, or scorched. Much delicacy of treatment is required in cleaning ladies’ boots, so as to make the leather look well-polished, and the upper part retain a fresh appearance, with the lining free from hand- marks, which are very offensive to a lady of refined tastes. 3355 -TO CLEAN PATENT LEATHER BOOTS. Patent leather boots require to be wiped with a wet sponge, and after wards with a soft dry cloth, and occasionally with a soft cloth and sweet oil, blacking and polishing the edge of the soles in the usual way, but so as not to cover the patent polish with blacking. A little milk may also be used with very good effect for patent leather boots. 3356.—TO CLEAN TOP-BOOTS. Top-boots are still occasionally worn by gentlemen. While cleaning the lower part in the usual manner, protect the tops, by inserting a cloth or brown paper under the edges and bringing it over them. In cleaning the tops, let the covering fall down over the boot; wash the tops clean with soap and flannel, and rub out any spots with pumice- stone. If the tops are to be whiter, dissolve an ounce of oxalic acid and half an ounce of muriatic acid, half an ounce of alum, half an ounce of gum-arabic, and half an ounce of spirit of lavender, in a pint-and-a-half of skimmed milk turned. These mixtures apply by means of a sponge, and polish, when dry, with a rubber made of soft flannel. BOOT-TOP BRUSH. 3357—BOOT POLISH. Polishfor the boots is an important matter to the valet, and not always to be obtained good by purchase; never so good, perhaps, as he can make