390 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Mode.—Mince a pound or so of cold roast beef, mixing a teaspoonful of salt, some pepper and the flour with it. Make a paste as directed in No. 1676, put the pudding-cloth in a basin and mould the crust on it. Put in the meat, the mixed onion and parsley and quarter pint of water ; put a paste cover on, tie up the cloth, and boil for an hour and a quarter. A little chopped pickles may be added, or some good vinegar, if liked. Time.—1£ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of meat, 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 871A.-POTATO PASTY. Ingredients.—lb. of rump-steak or mutton cutlets, pepper and salt to taste, £ pint of gravy, 1 oz. of butter, mashed potatoes. Mode.—Place the meat, cut in small pieces, at the bottom of the pan; season it with pepper and salt, and add the gravy and butter broken into small pieces. Put on the perforated plate,, with its valve-pipe screwed on, and fill up the whole space to the top of the tube with nicely-mashed potatoes mixed with a little milk. If carefully baked, the potatoes will be covered with a delicate brown crust, retaining all the savoury steam rising from the meat. Send it to table as it comes from the oven, with a napkin folded round it. Time.—40 to 60 minutes. Average Cost, is. 10d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 872.—BEEF-STEAKS WITH FRIED POTATOES. (Fr.—Bifteck aux Pommes-de-terre.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of steak, 8 potatoes, £ lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced herbs. Mode.—Put the butter into a frying or saute pan, set it over the fire, and let it get very hot; peel and cut the potatoes into long thin slices ; put them into the hot butter, and fry them till of a nice brown colour. Now broil the steaks over a bright clear fire, turning them frequently, that every part may be equally done; as they should not be thick, 5 minutes will broil them. Put the herbs and seasoning in the butter the potatoes were fried in, pour it under the steak, and place the fried potatoes round, as a garnish. To have this dish in perfection, a portion of the fillet of the sirloin should be used, as the meat is generally so much more tender than that of the rump, and the steaks should be cut about one third of an inch in thickness.