Sick Nursing. 1613 Casfe of Infectious diseases becomes concentrated, and in consequence more injurious both to patient and nurse. In order to ventilate in the true sense of the word, fresh air must be admitted without giving rise to draughts, and impure air must be got rid of. Perhaps the most efficient means capable of general employ- ment is by means of a window and open fire. The lower sash of the window may be raised an inch or two and boarded up; the fresh air will then enter at the centre, and be diffused without causing draught. 3664. Light.—An abundant supply of light may, with one or two excep- tions, be regarded as essential in the sick-room. The exceptions are cases of eye disease and affections of the brain, when it becomes necessary to moderate the light admitted to the sick-chamber. In most other instances the sun's rays must be looked upon as beneficial ; they exert a great oxidizing power upon organic matters, and render them innocuous. The patient's bed should be so placed that he can easily see out of window. All lights employed for purposes of artificial illumination should be so placed that the eye does not suffer. 3665. Temperature.—A good fire in the sick-room kept burning equally will suffice to maintain a uniform temperature, but care must be taken to see that the chimney is acting well. The temperature which answers best in the sick- room in most cases is one about 6o° Fahrenheit. It is well to regulate it by means of a thermometer. Should it be necessary to increase this, it can be done by permitting steam to pass into the room from a kettle : or if it is necessary to cool the air of the apartment, this can be readily accomplished by placing a shallow dish containing pieces of ice in the room or by suspending a piece of cloth that has been previously moistened with water. 3666. Furnishing of the SicJc-Itoom.—No unnecessary article of furniture should be found in the sick-room. If there is space to accommodate two beds so much the better as the day can be passed in one and the night in the other. An iron bedstead is the most convenient, the mattress should be of hair and the pillow the same. All curtains should be removed. Light blankets only should be used as a covering for the sick. In addition to the bed or beds there should be two tables, a wash-stand a chest of drawers, one or two chairs and a sofa. The wash-stand should be provided with one or two basins and a plentiful supply of water. The room is perhaps better uncarpeted ; if carpeted, the carpet must be removed in cases of infectious disease. If there is a mirror in the room it had better be taken away. Flowers may be placed about the room and the walls should be hung with pictures. 3667. Food.—Food must be properly cooked and given at regular intervals to be determined by the nature of the case. Everything intended for the invalid’s use should be made ready out of his sight and be brought on scrupulously clean dishes and not too much at a time. Punctuality must be attended to and strict quiet enjoined at meal times. 3668. Cleanliness. In the treatment of disease attention to cleanliness is of the utmost importance. If the sick-room is carpeted it should be swept with a soft hair-broom ; if without carpet it can be gone over with sponges wrung out of hot water an<i dried by means of the floor-brush. Damp cloths may be used instead ol sponges. The articles of furniture may be dusted by means of damp cloths. The walls should be painted or white-washed with lime. The body linen ought to be frequently changed and the hands and face washed daily. The hair should also be combed out at the same time. The body should also be fre