Recipes for Cooking Fish. 2l6 442.—COD PIE. (Fv.— Pate de Cabillaud.) [Another Mode.) Ingredients.—2 slices of cod ; pepper and salt to taste ; | a tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 large blade of pounded mace, 2 oz. of butter, \ pint of stock No, 273, a paste crust (see Pastry). For sauce, 1 table- spoonful of stock, £ pint of milk, thickening of flour or butter ; lemon peel chopped very fine to taste ; 12 oysters. Mode.—Lay the cod in salt for 4 hours, then wash it and place it in a dish ; season, and add the butter and stock ; cover with the crust, and bake for one hour, or rather more. Now make the sauce, by mixing the ingredients named above ; give it one boil, and pour it into the pie by a hole made at the top of the crust, which can easily be covered by a small piece of pastry cut and baked in any fanciful shape—such as a leaf, or otherwise. Time.—i| hour. Average Cost, with fresh fish, 3s. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. Note.—The remains of cold fish may be used for this pie. 443.—CURRIED COD. (Ft.—Cabillaud au Kari.) Ingredients.—2 slices of large cod, or the remains of any cold fish ; 3 oz. of butter, 1 onion sliced, a teacupful of white stock, thickening of butter and flour, 1 small teaspoonful of curry-powder, £ pint of cream, salt and cayenne to taste, lemon juice or any acid fruit. Mode.—Flake the fish, and fry it of a nice brown colour with the butter and onions; put this in a stewpan, add the stock, prepared as below, and thickening, and simmer for 10 minutes. Stir in the cream; put it, with the seasoning, to the other ingredients; give one boil and serve. Whenever curry-powder is used, it should be slowly simmered with the stock or gravy for 1 hour before it is served. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, with fresh fish, 2s. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. The Food of the Cod.—This chiefly consists of the smaller species of the scaly tribes, shell- fish, crabs and worms Their voracity is very great, and they will bite at any small body they see moved by the water, even stones and pebbles, which are frequently found in their stomachs. They sometimes attain a great size, but their usual weight is from 14 to 40 pounds. 444.—COD WITH CREAM. (Fv.—Cabillaud a la Cr&me.) Ingredients.—i large slice of cod, i oz. of butter, i chopped shalot, a little minced parsley, J teacupful of white stock, \ pint of milk or cream, flour to thicken, cayenne and lemon-juice to taste, \ teaspoonfnl of powdered sugar. Mode.—Boil the cod, and while hot, break it into flakes; put tho