RECIPES FOR SOUPS. CHAPTER VII. K/rl1^6 T,r b>',reference ut0 tbe following Recipes, that an entirely original and most intelligible system has been pursued in explaining the n re Duration of each dish We would recommend the young housekeeper, cLl o^Xve may be engaged m the important task of getting ready " the dinner or other meaMo follow precisely the order in which the recipes are given. Thus let them first place on the,, table all the Ingredients necessary ft hen thSo^an^ol mode of preparation, will be easily managed. By a careful reading, too of’the Recipes, there will not be the slightest difficulty in arranging a repast for any number of persons, and an accurate notion will be gained of theTiMEP the cooking Average Cost °CCUPy’ °f 16 per‘°ds at wh‘ch Jt 13 Seas°nable, as also of its The addition of the natural history, and the description of the various properties of the edible articles in common use in every family, will be serviceable both in a practical and an educational point of view. * erwceable Speaking specially of the Recipes for Soups, it may be added that bv the employment of the Best, Medium, or Common Stock, the quality’of the Soups and their cost may be proportionately increased or lessened.] P STOCKS FOR ALL KINDS OF SOUPS. *72—RICH STRONG STOCK. (Fv.-Grand Bouillon.) Ingredients.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 1 lb. of good lean ham, any poultry trimmings, aoz.of butter, 3 onions, 3 carrots, 3 turnips (the latter should be omitted in summer, lest they ferment) ; 1 bead of celery, a few chopped mushrooms, when obtainable ; 1 tomato, a bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley ; oz. of salt, 3 lumps of sugar, 12 white pepper-corns, 6 cloves, 3 small blades of mace, 6 quarts of Mode. Line a delicately clean stewpan with the ham, cut in thin broad slices, carefully trimming off all its rusty fat; cut up the beef and veal in pieces about 3 inches square, and lay them on the ham; set it on the stove, and draw it down, and stir frequently. When the meat is equally browned, put in the beef and veal bones, the poultry trimmings, and pour