1506 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. all is melted. When it is a little cool, mix this with i| lb. of good ivory- black ; place this again on the fire, and stir till it boils anew, and suffer it to cool. When cooled a little, add distilled turpentine till it has the consistence of a thickish paste, scenting it with any essence at hand, thinning it when necessary from time to time, by adding distilled turpentine. 3338-—HARNESS PASTE. Ingredients.—Ivory-black, 2 oz.; beeswax, 4 oz.; Prussian blue, -*• oz.; spirits of turpentine, 3 oz. Mode.—Mix the ingredients in a jar, and dissolve them by heat, by placing the jar in a saucepan of hot water. 3339 -HARNESS DYE. Ingredients.—Logwood chips, 2 lbs.; copperas, 3 oz.; nut-gall, 3 oz.; indigo, 1 oz.; British ink powder, a sixpenny packet; water, 2 quarts. Mode .—Put these ingredients into the water, and let all boil gently for half-an-hour. This dye will be found very useful for harness which has been for some time neglected and become rusty-looking. 3340.—HARNESS-MAKERS’ JET. Take x drachm of indigo, 4 oz. of isinglass, £ oz. of soft soap, 4 oz. of glue, 1 pennyworth of logwood raspings and 1 quart of vinegar; boil the whole over a slow fire till reduced to 1 pint. A small quantity is then to be taken up on a piece of clean sponge, and thinly applied to harness, boots, &c., taking care that they are previously well cleaned. 33+1 -HARNESS BLACKING, EXCELLENT, FOR PRE- SERVING THE LEATHER. Melt 4 oz. of mutton suet with 12 oz. of beeswax ; add 12 oz. of sugar- candy, 4 oz. of soft soap dissolved in water, and 2 oz. of indigo, finely powdered. When melted and well mixed, add half a pint of turpentine. Lay it on the harness with a sponge, and polish off with a brush. 3342.—TO CLEAN LEATHER. When the leather is old and greasy, it should be cleaned, before apply- ing this polish, with a brush wetted in a weak solution of potass and water, washing afterwards with soft river water, and drying thoroughly. If the leather is not black, one or two coats of black ink may