g8o General Observations on Preserves, Pickles, &c. which are composed of the firmer fruits, as pine-apples or the rinds of oranges ; whereas jams are made of the more juicy berries, such as strawberries, rasp- berries, currants, mulberries, &c. Fruit pastes are a kind of marmalade, consisting of the pulp of fruits, first evaporated to a proper consistency, and afterwards boiled with sugar. The mixture is then poured into a mould, or spread on sheets of tin, and subsequently dried in the oven or stove till it has acquired the state of a paste. From a sheet of this paste, strips may be cut and formed into any shape that may be desired, as knots, rings, &c. Jams require the same care and atten- tion in the boiling as marmalade; the slightest degree of burning communicates a disagreeable empyreumatic taste, and if they are not boiled properly they will not keep. 2105. Marmalades and jams axe now so cheap that they are within reach of the poorest. They can also be bought so good that there is little induce- ment to make them at home if the fruit has to be bought dear. Nevertheless it must be confessed that they are seldom both cheap and good, so that house- keepers who desire both quality and economy, and are not prepared to spare their own trouble, will do well to study the following chapter. 2106 Hales for Making.—It is possible, but not easy, to make good jam without a proper preserving pan ; for an iron saucepan discolours, and, perhaps, flavours the fruit, and a tin pan is too thin and liable to burn. A long wooden spoon or stick is necessary. The end to be attained is to boil the juice of the fruit with sugar to such a consistency that it will neither ferment nor mildew. Some persons add a little water, some put only the fruit in with the sugar. From three-quarters of a lb. to i lb. of sugar for each lb. of fruit is the usual amount, but half a lb. is sometimes enough to preserve the fruit, and if it is, it is better to use no more, as jam is often unpleasantly sweet with very little flavour of the fruit left. 2107. Two methods of jam-making are common. Some boil it a long time and slowly, adding the sugar towards the end of the process. Others prefer to boil the sugar with a very little water first, then to put in the fruit and boil it very fast for a short time. The latter method is commonly employed in manufac- tories where time is money, and it certainly preserves the shape, colour and flavour of the fruit better than the former, which, however, has advantages for some fruits that require long stewing, and for those persons who find it difficult with the means at their disposal to make the jam boil as thoroughly and completely as it readily does in the manufacturer’s pans, heated by steam coil or gas to the exact temperature required. 2108. The pots into which the jam is put must be perfectly dry, and the cupboard in which they stand neither so warm that the jam ferments, nor damp so that it becomes mouldy. The housekeeper will do well to remember that mould is a plant sowing itself by multitudes of seeds, so small that they penetrate the tiniest crack. It spreads, therefore, readily from one thing to another, and may sometimes lurk unsuspected on the shelves of a cupboard that is not well cleaned and aired. 2109. Fruit jellies are compounds of the juices of fruits combined with sugar, concentrated, by boiling, to such a consistency that the liquid, upon cooling, assumes the form of a jelly. But in spite of the resemblance in appear- ance and in name this jelly, which is known as pectin, is from a chemical or a feeding standpoint entirely different from gelatine. It is nearly allied to gum, and has about the same food value as the sugar with which it is boiled. 2110. Candied Fruit.— Before fruits are candied they must first be boiled in syrup, after which they are taken out and dried on a stove- or be/qre