545 Potted Ham, 1196.—POTTED HAM. (Fr.—Jambon en Terrine.) {Another Mode.) Ingredients—To 2 lbs. of lean ham allow £ lb. of fat, 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, £ teaspoonful of pounded allspice, | nutmeg, pepper to taste, clarified butter. Mode.—Cut some slices from the remains of a cold ham, mince them small, and to every 2lbs. of lean allow the above proportion of fat. Pound the ham in a mortar to a fine paste, with the fat, gradually add the seasoning and spices, and be very particular that all the ingredients are well mixed and the spices well pounded. Press the mixture into pot- ting-pots, pour over clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The little scraps that can be cut off after the ham is unfit for sending to table serve for this, if all outside pieces and rust are carefully removed. Importance of the Boar’s Head: Scottish Feuds, &c.—The boar's head, in ancient times, formed the most important dish on the table, and was invariably the first placed on the board upon Christmas-day, being preceded by a body of servitors, a flourish of trumpets, and other marks of distinction and reverence, and carried into the hall by the individual of next rank to the lord of the feast. At some of our colleges and inns of court, the serving of the boar’s head on a silver platter on Christmas-day is a custom still followed ; and, till very lately, a boar's head was competed for at Christmas-time by the young men of a rural parish in Essex. Indeed, so highly was the grizzly boar’s head regarded in former times, that it passed into the cognizance of some of the noblest families in the realm : thus it was not only the crest of tht, Nevills and Warwicks, with their collateral houses, but it was the cognizance ot Richard III., that— “Wretched, bloody, and usurping boar, That spoiled your summer fields and fruitful vines, Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough In your embowell’d bosoms,"— and whose nature it was supposed to typify; and was universally used as a sign to taverns. The Boar’s Head, in Eastcheap, which, till within the last twenty-five years, still stood, in all its primitive quaintness, though since removed to make way for the London Bridge approaches, wil live vividly in the mind of every reader of Sbakspeare as the resort of the Prince of Wales, Poins, and his companions, and the residen ce of Falstaff and his coney-catching knaves, Bardolph, Pistol, and Nym: and whose sign was a Boar’s Head, carved in stone over the door, and a smaller one in wood on each side of the doorway. The traditions and deeds of savage vengeance recorded in connection with this grim trophy of the chase are numerous in all parts of Europe. But the most remarkable connected with the sub- ject in this country were two events that occurred in Scotland about the nth and 15th centuries. A border family having been dispossessed of their castle and lands by a more powerful chief, were reduced for many years to great indigence, the expelled owner only living in the hope of wreaking a terrible vengeance, which, agreeably to the motto of his house, he was content to “bide his time "for. The usurper, having invited a large number of his kindred to a grand hunt in his new domains, and a feast after in the great hall, returned from the chase, and, dis- covering the feast not spread, vented his wrath in no measured terms on the heads of the tardy servitors. At length a menial approached, followed by a line of servants, and, placing the boar’s head on the table, the guests rushed forward to begin the meal, when, to their horror, they dis- covered not a boar’s, but a bull’s head—a sign of death. The doors were immediately closed, and the false servants, who were the adherents of the dispossessed chief, threw off their disguise, and, falling on the usurper and his friends, butchered them and every soul in the castle belonging to the rival faction. A tribe of caterans, or mountain robbers, in the Western Highlands, having been greatly per- secuted by a powerful chief of the district, waylaid him and his retinue, put them all to the sword, and, cutting off the chiefs head, repaired to his castle, where they ordered the terrified wife to supply them with food and drink. To appease their savage humour, the lady gave orders for their entertainment, and, on returning to the hall to see that her orders were complied with, discovered, in place of the boar’s head that should have graced the board, her husband's bleed- ing head ; the savage caterans, in rude derision, as a substitute for the apple or lemon usually placed between the jaws, having thrust a slice of bread in the dead man's mouth.