631 Rabbit Pie. 1324.—RABBIT PIE. (Fr.—Pate de Lapin.) Ingredients.—I rabbit, a few slices of ham, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a tew forcemeat balls, 3 hard-boiled eggs, £ pint of gravy, puff-crust. Mode.—Cut up the rabbit (which should be young), remove the breast- bone, and bone the legs. Put the rabbit, slices of ham, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns, in layers, and season each layer with pepper, salt, pounded mace and grated nutmeg. Pour in about half a f int of water, cover with crust, and bake in a well-heated oven for about one hour and a half. Should the crust acquire too much colour, place a piece of paper over it to prevent it burning. When done, pour in at the top, by means of the hole in the middle of the crust, a little good gravy, which may be made of the breast and leg bones of the rabbit and two or three shank- bones, flavoured with onion, herbs and spices. Time.—hour. Average Cost, from 8d. per lb Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to February. Note.—The liver of the rabbit may be boiled, minced and mixed with the forcemeat balls, when the flavour is liked. Fecundity of the Babbit —The fruitfulness of this animal has been the subject of wonder to all naturalists. It breeds seven times in the year, and generally begets seven or eight young ones at a time. If we suppose this to happen regularly for a period of four years, the progeny that would spring from a single pair would amount to more than a million. As the rabbit, however, has many enemies, it can never be permitted to increase in numbers to such an extent as to prove injurious to mankind; for it not only furnishes man with an article of food, but is, by carnivorous animals of every description, mercilessly sacrificed. Notwithstanding this, however, in the time of the Roman power, they once infested the Belearic islands to such an extent, that the inhabi- tants were obliged to implore the assistance of a military force from Augustus to exterminate them. I325—RAGOUT OF RABBIT OR HARE. (Fr.— Ragout de Lapin ou Lievre.) Ingredients.—I rabbit, 3 teaspoonfuls of flour, 3 sliced onions, 2 02. of butter, a few thin slices of bacon, pepper and salt to taste, 2 slices of lemon, 1 bay-leaf, 1 glass of port. Mode.—Slice the onions and put them into a stewpan with the flour and butter; place the pan near the fire, stir well as the butter melts, till the onions become a rich brown colour, and add, by degrees, a little water or gravy till the mixture is of the consistency of cream. Cut some thin slices of bacon ; lay in these with the rabbit, cut into neat joints; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, the lemon and bay-leaf, and let the whole simmer until tender. Pour in the port, give one boil, and serve. Time.—About £ hour to simmer the rabbit. Average Cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. The Rabbit-House.— Rabbit-keeping is generally practised by some individuals in almost every town, and by a few in almost every part of the country. Forty y< ars ago, there were in the metropolis one or two considerable feeders, who, according to report, kept from i 500