MENU CARDS AND HOLDERS. CHAPTER LXIV. MENUS FOR ALL SEASONS. 3072. Menu Making.— There is more care, skill, and experience needed in arranging menus than those who have not had the task would believe. A col- lection of good dishes will no more of necessity make a good menu than so many pretty colours thrown together, an effective gown. As a dress, blending several tints and materials, should be a harmony, so should a dinner, no matter of how many courses it be composed, while, according to the dishes served, so should the wines be chosen. , , , A dinner may be light or heavy, long or short, but the dishes in every case should be those which follow each other so as to please the palate, and with some little regard for the digestive organs. A tasty dish should never be followed by an insipid one in direct sequence. Thus, for example, where there are three entrees, the most savoury one should be the third. . . .. Where of necessity highly-flavoured dishes follow each other, it is well now and then to divide them by some little breaks (if we may use the word in the repast, that such things as savoury olives or an occasional salad will afford. These refresh the palate, both for food or wine, and make a material difference in the enjoyment of the dinner. , . , , In the following menus will be found a wide choice, not only of viands obtain- able each month for which they are suggested, but also in the cost of the dinners, which range from the most expensive one, to the most economical family To the inexperienced, we trust the quantities given for each dinner may also be a help. It may be added that it is only by these quantities that the menus are set down as for certain numbers of persons. , . . A menu for six may just as well be a menu for eighteen persons, and vice versa, by adding to, or taking from, the quantities allowed. 3073. Menu cards should never be lacking at a good dinner. Homely, old-fashioned people sometimes use the phrase, “ You see your dinner, and so we should (on our menu cards) before starting, that we may know what to take and what to refuse. , „ To many of us it would be simply impossible to partake of all the courses at a long dinner; and to have taken something that we did not care about to the exclusion of something we particularly like, because we did not know e latter was coming, would, to some people, be extremely provoking. We give suggestions for menu cards on our full page illustrations, which tasteful fingers and minds may like to work out and improve upon, but very pretty cards are sold by all stationers for the purpose. On first page will be