lI73 Alpine Eggs. 2614.-TO KEEP EGGS FRESH. {Another Mode.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of quick lime, 10 oz. of salt, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, gallon of boiling water. Mode.—Mix the ingredients, stir and cover closely. The eggs may be covered with the solution the following day. They will keep long, but the shell becomes very brittle. Seasonable.—The best time for preserving eggs is from July to Sep- tember. Eggs.—The quality of eggs is very much affected by the food of the fowls who lay them. Herbs and grain together make a better food than grain only. When the hens eat too many insects or kitchen scraps and refuse, the eggs have a disagreeable flavour. 2615.—TO BOIL EGGS FOR BREAKFAST, SALADS, &c. Mode.—Eggs for boiling cannot be too fresh, or boiled too soon after they are laid ; but rather a longer time should be allowed for boiling £ new-laid egg than for one that is three or four days old. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water; put the eggs into it gently with a spoon ; letting the spoon touch the bottom of the saucepan before it is withdrawn, that the egg may not fall. For those who like eggs lightly boiled, 3 minutes will be found sufficient; 3^ to 4 minutes will be ample time to set the white nicely; and if liked hard, 6 to 7 minutes will not be found too long. Should the eggs be unusually large, allow an extra half minute for them, or put the eggs in cold water, and when it boils the eggs are done. Eggs for salad should be boiled from 10 minutes to a quarter of an hour, and should be placed in a basin of cold water for a few minutes» they should then be rolled on the table with the hand, and the shell will peel off easily. Time.—To boil eggs lightly, for invalids or children, 3 minutes; to boil eggs to suit the generality of tastes, 3^ to 4 minutes ; to boil eggs hard, 6 to 7 minutes ; for salads, 10 to 15 minutes. Eggs.—When fresh eggs are dropped into a vessel full of boiling water, they crack, because, the eggs being well filled, the shells give way to the efforts of the interior fluids, dila.ed by heat. It the volume of the hot water be small, the shells do not crack, because its temperature is reduced EGG-STAND FOR THE BREAKFAST- TABLE. by the eggs before the interior dilation can take place, the air inside is easily compressed. Stale eggs, again, do not crack, because 2616.-ALPINE EGGS. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 6 oz. of cheese, 2 oz. of butter, a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt. Mode.—Butter a baking-tin rather thickly and line it with the greater