927 Fried Cream. Time.—About 10 minutes to stir the mixture over the fire. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time Note.—A cheap and good imitation of this dish can be made with corn flour and cocoa or chocolate powder, adding an egg or two if convenient. 1981.—FRIED CREAM. (Fr.—Creme Frite.) Ingredients.—Yolks of 6 eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt, 1 quart of milk, 3 oz. of butter, £ lb. of sugar, a little vanilla flavouring. Mode.—Put the milk on the fire and let it get hot, mix the flour with the yolks of eggs and salt, then add to the milk and stir all over the fire with a wooden spoon till it is thick. Dissolve the butter and beat it to a cream with the vanilla, add it to the rest, stir two minutes longer, then pour it into a dish and serve cold. Any flavouring may be used in place of the vanilla. Time.—About £ hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1982.-FROMAGE A LA CHANTILLY. Ingredients.—1 quart of thick cream, whites of 2 eggs, £ lb. of powdered loaf sugar, a few drops of orange-flower water. Mode.—Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and put them into the cream, adding the sugar and flavouring. Beat all to a stiff froth, and form it into a pyramid. Serve in a glass dish. The cream may be mixed with the strained juice of strawberries or raspberries, but in that case more sugar must be used. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 3s. 2d. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Seasonable at any time ; with fruit juice, in June, July and August. 1983—FROMAGE A LA CREME. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, 1 pint of cream, 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. CL little rennet. Mode.—Boil the milk, cream and sugar together till they are reduced one-third. Let it cool, and when just warm, put in the rennet, strain it, pour into a dish and set in hot ashes. Cover it, and put hot ashes on top. When set, put it aside to get cold, then serve. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. 10.'/. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in summer.