m3 Brioches. 2459,—AUNTIE’S CAKES. (Delicious.) Ingredients,—1 lb. of maizena, 2 teaspoontuls of Borwick’s baking* powder, the rind of 3 small lemons, £ lb. of sifted sugar, ij lb. of butter, 4 eggs, patty-pans. Mode.—Cut the lemon-peel into shreds and chop it finely, mix the sugar, flour and baking-powder together, add the butter, well beaten up to a cream, and 4 eggs well beaten. Stir ail these ingredients together and put a teaspoonful into each little patty-pan ; bake for 5 minutes in a rather quick oven. Time.—5 minutes to bake. Average Cost, 2s. 2d. for this quantity. Sufficient for 4 or 5 dozen cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2460.-AUNT BETSEY’S CAKE. Ingredients.—Take 5 teacups of flour, 2 of sugar, £ a cup of butter, 1 cup of golden syrup, cup of water, 2 eggs, 1 pint of chopped raisins, 1 teaspoonful of soda, cloves, cinnamon, mace. Mode.—Beat the butter and sugar together ; add the eggs, dissolve soda in water, then molasses, flour, spice and fruit. Do not bake in too hot an oven. Time.—1 to hour. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. 2461-BRIOCHES. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour, i| lb. of butter, 3 oz. of German yeast, 3^ oz. of sugar, 14 eggs, 3^ oz. of salt, water. Mode.—Put half a pound of the flour on a board, hollow it in the centre, put in the yeast dissolved in a little warm water, mix and set the sponge to rise in a covered pan near the fire. Put the rest of the flour on the board, and after making a hole in the centre, put in the butter, salt, sugar and 8 eggs, mix and add one after another the other six eggs, and work till the paste is smooth. When the sponge is well risen (it ought to double its original size), mix it with the paste, and again set it to rise for 3 hours. Next put the paste on a board, press it out, and fold it over two or three times, and a third time set it to rise for 2 hours ; once more press it out, fold it up, and put on the ice till firm. This paste may be used for small cakes, or to orm cases for com • potes, custards, &c, BRIOCHES.