To Choose Cheese. H53 butter, and who, therefore, have to buy in considerable quantities, may be glad to know a way in which rancid butter can be perfectly sweetened. The buiter must be thoroughly washed and kneaded first in new milk, where it will lose the acid which has turned it, then in fresh spring water. CHEESE. 2568. Cheese is the Curd of Milk, dried.—This curd, or casein, which is held in solution in the whey under natural conditions, or so long as the milk is fresh, has the curious property of coagulating by the addition of any acid. Lactic acid, formed in the milk, serves to precipitate the curd in the ordinary process of souring. Curd appears as a first stage of digestion by the action of the gastric acid of the stomach. Lemon-juice is often used to make curd for cheese- cakes. In cheese-making “ rennet ” or “ runnet ” is used—a preparation from the stomach of the calf; or in some countries, principally in Holland, a weak solution of hydrochloric acid is substituted for the rennet. 2569. The mode of 'preparation is as follows :—The milk is heated to blood-heat, and the rennet is added. It is allowed to stand until the curd is set, and then cut and slashed to run the whey off; presently it is put into a vat with holes at the bottom with a suitable quantity of salt, and is subjected to increasing pressure until it is sufficiently dry and firm to be taken out of the vat and dried, a process that often lasts many months. The best cheese is made of new milk, and, therefore, con- tains fat besides the curd. Skimmed milk cheeses are hard and indigestible. In fact, no cheese is easy of diges- tion, which probably accounts for its not being an uni- versal food ; it has almost every other virtue, being cheap, portable, easy to store 'and palatable. In every pound of cheese we have as much solid food as in a pound of lean meat, and the food is of the flesh-forming kind, ordinarily so scarce in the homes of the poor. Mr. Mattieu Williams, in his “ Chemistry of Cookery," points out that it is much more digestible if it is heated and dissolved in milk or water at a low temperature, the addition of a pinch of bicarbonate of potash hastening its solution. The plan is worth the practical attention of cooks. Cooked cheese is commonly overheated until it becomes tough and horny, and far more indi- gestible than it was when cooking began. 2570. To Choose Cheese.—The taste and smell are the best indications of quality. There is so much difference of taste in cheese that it is, almost alone of all foods, tasted by the customers before purchasing. A good cheese has rounded edges and sides, and when a piece is rubbed between the fingers it melts and seems smooth. The bulging should not be great, however, as that would indicate slight fermentation, and it ought to be flat at the top. A poor cheese has sharp edges, and is crumbly and dry. Skim-milk cheese may be good of its kind, but is never what is known as “ fat ’’ cheese. A good Stilton is considered the finest of our cheeses, but it may be said there is no cheese that varies in quality so much as this—perhaps owing to the fact that it has to be kept so long before it is fit for eating—sufficient care not being given during the time. The old-fashioned practice of pouring port wine into Stilton is seldom resorted to now, when we buy our cheeses ripe and fit for table. It is well imitated in America,