332 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 73I._MAiTRE D’HOTEL SAUCE. {Hot, to Serve with Calf's Head, Boiled Eels, and different Fish.) Ingredients.—i slice of ham minced, a few poultry-trimmings, 2 shalots, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay-leaf, £ pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, 1 dessert- spoonful of flour, 1 heaped tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, the juice of half a large lemon, £ teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Put at the bottom of a stewpan the minced ham, and over it the poultry trimmings (if these are not at hand, veal should be subsituted), with the shalots, garlic and bay-leaf. Pour in the water, and let the whole simmer gently for 1 hour, or until the liquor is reduced to a full half pint. Then strain this gravy, put it in another saucepan, make a thickening of butter and flour in the above proportions, and stir the gravy to it over a nice clear fire, until it is perfectly smooth and rather thick. Skim well, add the remaining ingredients, let the sauce gradually heat, but do not allow it to boil after the parsley is in or it will be a bad colour. If this sauce be intended for an entree, it is necessary to make it of a sufficient thickness, so that it may adhere to what it is meant to cover. Time.—i£ hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. per pint. Sufficient for re-warming the remains of half a calf’s head, or a small dish of cold flaked turbot, cod, &c. 732—MATELOTE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce a la Matelote.) (For Fish.) Ingredients.—£ pint of Espagnole (No. 775), 3 onions, 2 tablespoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup, \ glass of port, a bunch of sweet herbs, % bay leaf, salt and pepper to taste, 1 clove, 2 berries of all- spice, a little liquor in which the fish has been boiled, lemon-juice, and anchovy sauce. Mode.—Slice and fry the onions of a nice brown colour, and put them into a stewpan with the Espag- nole, ketchup, wine, and a little liquor in which the fish has been boiled. Add the seasoning, herbs and spices, and simmer gently for 10 minutes, stirring well the whole time; strain it through a fine hair sieve, put in the lemon-juice and anchovy sauce, and pour it over the fish. This sauce may be very much enriched by adding a few small quenelles, or forcemeat balls, also glazed onions or mushrooms. These, however, should not be added to the matelote till it is dished. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. Seasonable at any time. THE BAY. made of fish, and