Baked Aubergines. 1279 Mode:—Trim and cleanse the cauliflowers in the usual way, and half boil them in salt and water. Melt the butter with a little hot water, stir in the flour, oil and salt, making a batter which will run from the spoon; mix lightly with it the whites of two eggs well beaten up. Drain the cauliflowers thoroughly, divide them into branches and shake the branches well in the vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper; then fry them in the batter, taking care that they do not stick to each other. Serve them in pyramid shape, placing on the summit some sprigs of parsley fried in the same batter. Time.—Altogether | hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from May to October. 2909.—BAKED AUBERGINES. Ingredients.—4 medium-sized aubergines (the dark violet are the best), 12 mushroom buttons, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of fat bacon minced, 1 tea- spoonful of olive oil, 6 minced shalots, a little minced parsley, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Wash and cut the aubergines in two, lengthwise, remove half of the pulp, and add the mushrooms chopped fine, or bread-crumbs soaked in stock, equal in quantity to the pulp, fry this with the butter, oil, shalots and parsley. When done, fill up the halves of aubergines with this forcemeat, smooth and bread-crumb the top, bake for half an hour, or, better, broil carefully on a slow fire; brown over and serve. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. Seasonable in Autumn. 2910.—BRUSSELS SPROUTS SAUTES. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of sprouts, water, salt (a tablespoonful to 2 quarts'), a small pinch of soda, £ lb. of butter, ^ dessertspoonful flour, grated nut- meg, lemon-juice, shalots, parsley, pepper. Mode.—Trim, clean and wash the sprouts, put them into a saucepan of boiling water and salt, boil for a quarter of'an hour. Then take them out, drain and fry them (moving the pan about all the time) in clarified butter with a teaspoonful of minced shalots, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper. When they are of a golden hue, dish and pour over them a sauce blonde, made as follows:—Make half a dessert- spoonful of flour smooth with a little stock, add it, over the fire, to a