5i5 Mutton Cutlets. potatoes ; make a mound of them in a dish ; pepper and salt the cutlets, and put them round, the thick end downwards. Time.—7 or 8 minutes. Average Cost for this quantity, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1128.—MUTTON CUTLETS. (TV.—Cotelettes de Mouton.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of the best end of neck of mutton, 4 tablespoon- fills of bread-crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, | teaspoonful of minced onion, grated lemon-peel, salt, mace, pepper, flour, 2 oz. of butter, or 2 oz. of lard, 1 egg, 1 wineglassful of madeira. Mode.—Cut the neck into well-shaped cutlets and pare the bones to flatten them. Mix the bread-crumbs, herbs and seasoning together, melt the butter and dip each cutlet into it, then into beaten egg and lastly into the mixed bread-crumbs, &c. Put the lard into a frying-pan and as soon as it boils put in the cutlets and fry them a rich brown. Remove them to a hot dish and keep them hot. For gravy, dredge some flour into the pan and let it get brown ; then pour in a teacupful of boiling water and the madeira. Boil up at once and pour round the cutlets. Time .—xo minutes. Aversige Cost, is. per lb. when trimmed. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1 i28a.—STEWED KIDNEYS. Ingredients.—6 kidneys, a small shalot, 2 or 3 mushrooms, $ pint of stock or gravy, 2 oz. of butter, parsley, thyme, seasoning, lemon. Mode.—Skin the kidneys, remove all the fat, flour and cut them in thin slices. Mince finely the shalot, the thyme and parsley and the mush- rooms, then sprinkle the slices of kidney with the mixture and a little salt and cayenne. Melt the butter in a stewpan and fry the kidneys brown in it, thicken with a little flour, then add the stock or gravy and a squeeze of lemon and let it come to the boil. Time.—About 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1129.—ITALIAN MUTTON CUTLETS. (Fv.—Cotelettes de Mouton a I’ltalienne.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of neck of mutton, clarified butter, 1 egg, 4 table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 1 oz. of minced savoury herbs, 1 teaspoonful each of minced parsley and lemon-peel, pepper, salt and pounded mace t taste, flour, ^ pint of hot water or broth, 2 teaspoonfuls each of Harvey’s sauce and tarragon vinegar, 1 of soy, 1 tablespoonful of port. Mode.—Cut the mutton into nicely-shaped cutlets, flatten them, and trim off some of the fat, dip them in clarified butter, and then into the beaten yolk of an egg. Mix well together bread-crumbs, herbs, parsley, shalot, lemon-peel, and seasoning in the above propoi'tion, and cover the