442 Recipes for Cooking Veal. more colour, as the outside should be of a rich brown, but not burnt. Dish it, remove the skewers, which replace by a silver one ; pour over the joint some good melted butter, and serve with either boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork. Never omit to send a cut lemon to table with roast veal. Time.—A fillet of veal weighing 12 lbs,, about 4 hours. Average Cost, 10\d. per lb. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 985.—STEWED FILLET OF VEAL. (Fr.—Rouelle de Veau Farcie.) Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, forcemeat No. 629, thickening of butter and flour, a few mushrooms, white pepper to taste; 2 tablespoon- fuls of lemon-juice, 2 blades of pounded mace, | glass of sherry, £ pint of weak stock. Mode.—If the whole of the leg is purchased, take off the knuckle to stew, and also the square end, which will serve for cutlets or pies. Remove the bone, and fill the space with a forcemeat No. 629. Roll and skewer it up firmly ; place a few skewers at the bottom of the stewpan to prevent the meat from sticking, and cover the veal with a little weak stock. Let it simmer very gently until tender, as the more slowly veal is stewed the better. Strain and thicken the sauce, flavour it with lemon-juice, mace, sherry, and white pepper; give one boil, and pour if over the meat. The skewers should be removed, and replaced by a silver one, and the dish garnished with slices of cut lemon. Time.—A fillet of veal weighing 6 lbs., 3 hours’ very gentle stewing. Average Cost, lo^d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. The Golden Calf.—We are told in the book of Genesis, that Aaron, in the lengthened absence of Moses, was constrained by the impatient people to make them an image to worship; and that Aaron, instead of using his delegated power to curb this sinful expression of the tribes and appease the discontented Jews, at once complied with their demand, and telling them to bring to him their rings and trinkets, fashioned out of their willing contributions a calf of gold, before which the multitude fell down and worshipped. 986.-BOILED CALF’S HEAD. (Fr.—Tete de Veau a la Mattre d’Hotel.) (With the Skin on.) Ingredients—Calf’s head, boiling water, bread-crumbs, 1 large bunch of parsley, butter, white pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 or three grains of cayenne.