German Economy. 1285 or footman waits at the other. At larger parties, as with us, the carving is done at the sideboard or in the kitchen. 2922. A German kitchen is a picture of cleanliness, with its large, shining stove, and its rows of glowing copper, tinned and enamelled vessels ranged in perfect order and flanked by a host of wooden spoons, colanders, egg-poachers and the like. German cooks are scrupulously attentive to the cleansing of their vegetables, frequently using a large tub of water in washing a lettuce. With all their predilection for cake making, Germans seldom make bread at home. How well German bakers perform their task is proved by the fact that hun- dreds of them are employed in London, and none of us who have lived in Germany are ignorant of the variety of brown bread and white, and rolls of every com- plexion. Still, maybe it has been reserved to the few to taste the Commissbroi or black soldiers’ bread, baked in huge round loaves, their surface shining in blackness. A little of it goes a long way, but it is not positively nasty. The best way to try it is to cut it into the thinnest of slices, which may be interlarded between white bread and butter. 2923. Contrasting German with English cookery, perhaps one of the greatest differences between the two consists in the more constant use of seasoning of every description employed in the former. We mean seasoning principally with fresh or dried herbs of all kinds. In fact, many of the meats and vegetables which we at home look upon as ready for the table, would be considered in Germany to be only half-prepared. For example, all that we deem necessary is to shake salt over a joint and let the fire do the rest. What cau be better than a joint of English prime roast beef, if roasted ? But in our time the greater part of the meat is not roasted, but baked, and consequently loses a good deal of its flavour. This, scientific seasoning would more than compensate for. Possibly the fact of foreign beef and mutton being on the whole inferior to our own, may have been the origin of more trouble being taken by the French and Germans to make it palatable. At any rate, German cooks do take a great deal of trouble in the preparation of every kind of meat. Joints to be roasted, after having been thoroughly wiped and deprived of every little bit of superfluous fat, gristle, or any unsightly scrap, are thoroughly rubbed with a mixture of herbs, selected according to the different nature of the meat to be dressed. Then onion, allspice, pepper and salt, occasionally, too, cloves, are placed in the pan, and the joint is basted frequently with the gravy thus flavoured, all of which adds a re- fined and delicate savour to its taste. In the matter of vegetables, too, their manner is more artistic than our own. At home we are quite satisfied, for instance, with a delicate savoy cabbage tho- roughly boiled in salt and water. Were we, however, to taste that same cabbage after a German handling, with the addition of shalot delicately fried in clarified butter, pepper, parsley, and just a soupgon of flour, many would not care to eat it again dressed in simple fashion. We English are rather liable to call German cookery greasy, but how many of us can iudge of it only by what we get in hotels, probably at a table-d'hote, where the dishes have become cooled before they ever reach us. It is in the private houses that the real excellence of German cooking would be appreciated by all who could have the opportunity of tasting it. Germans enjoy good appetites, and are certainly highly critical in the matter of cooking. It would be impossible to find a more hospitable people, and a German hausfrau will undergo any amount of trouble in order to produce some exquisite dish for a friend’s arrival. On the whole, it must be admitted that the Germans