The Mistress. i6 bestow. Musical evenings make additional attractions for home, and increase its pleasures. Where music is cultivated by the mistress of a house or by the daughters, husbands and brothers are generally found "at home” in the evenings. Light or fancy needlework often forms a portion of the evening's recreation for the ladies of the household, and this may be varied by an occasional game. It has often been remarked, too, that nothing is pleasanter to the feminine members of a family than the reading aloud of some good standard work or amusing publication. A knowledge of polite literature may be thus obtained by the whole family, especially if the reader is able and willing to explain the more difficult passages of the book, and expatiate on the wisdom and beauties it may contain. This plan, in a great measure, realises the advice of Lord Bacon, who says, “ Read not to contradict and refute, nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider.” 40. Retiring for the Night.—It is well to remember that early rising is almost impossible, if late going to bed be the order, or rather disorder, of the house. The younger members of a family should go early and at regular hours to their beds, and the domestics as soon as possible after a reasonably appointed hour. Either the master or the mistress of a house should, after all have gone to their separate rooms, see that all is right with respect to lights and fires below; and no servants should on any account be allowed to remain up after the heads of the house have retired. Having thus gone from early rising to early retiring, there remain only now to be considered a few special positions, respecting which the mistress of the house will be glad to receive some specific information. 41. When a Mistress takes a Nouse in a new locality, it will be etiquette for her to wait until the older inhabitants of the neighbourhood call upon her; thus evincing a desire, on their part, to become acquainted with the new comer. It may be, that the mistress will desire an intimate acquaintance with but few of her neighbours ; but it is to be specially borne in mind that all visits, whether of ceremony, friendship or condolence, should be punctiliously returned, though some time may be allowed to elapse in the case of undesirable acquaintance. 42. Letters of Introduction.—You may perhaps have been favoured with letters of introduction from some of your friends, to persons living in the neighbourhood to which you have just come. In this case, enclose the letter of introduction in an envelope, with your card. Then, if the person to whom it is addressed call in the course of a few days, the visit should be returned by you within the week, if possible. Any breach of etiquette in this respect will not readily be excused. It is now more usual to write by the post and introduce a friend, instead of leaving everything to be said by the letter that is given. In the event of your being invited to dinner under the above circumstances, nothing but necessity should prevent you from accepting the invitation. If, however, there is some distinct reason why you cannot accept, let it be stated frankly and plainly. An opportunity should, also, be taken to call in the course of a day or two, in order to politely express your regret and dis appointment at not having been able to avail yourself of the kindness. In Giving a Letter of Introduction, it should always be handed to your friend unsealed. Courtesy dictates this, as the person whom you are introducing would, perhaps, wish to know in what manner he or she was spoken of. Should you receive a letter from a friend, introducing to you any person known to and esteemed by the writer, the letter should be immediately acknowledged, and your willingness expressed to do all in your power to carry out his or her wishes.