Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 179 368.—PARTRIDGE SOUP. (Fr.— Potage au Perdreaux.) Ingredients.— 2 partridges, 3 slices of lean ham, 2 shred onions, 1 head of celery, 1 large carrot, and 1 turnip, cut into fanciful shapes ; a small lump of sugar, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of stock, No. 273, or common, No. 274. Mode.—Cut the partridges into pieces, and braise them in the butter and ham until quite tender; then take out the legs, wings, and breast, and set them by. Keep the backs and other trimmings in the braise, and add the onions and celery ; any remains of cold game can be put in, and 3 pints of stock. Simmer slowly for 1 hour, strain it, and strain the fat off as clean as possible; put in the pieces that were taken out, give it one boil, and skim again to have it quite clear, and add the sugar and season- ing. Now simmer the cut carrot and turnip in 1 pint of stock ; when quite tender, put them to the partridges, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. or 2s. per quart. Seasonable from September to February. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—The meat of the partridges may be pounded with the crumb of a French roll, and worked with the soup through a sieve,. Serve with stewed celery cut in slices and put in tureen. (Fr. puree de perdreaux.) The Partridge.—This is a timorous bird, being easily taken. It became known to the Greeks and Romans, whose tables it helped to furnish with iood. Formerly, the Red was scarce in Italy, but its place was supplied by the White, which, at considerable expense, was frequently procured from the Alps. The Athenians trained this bird lor fighting, and Severus used to lighten the cares of royalty by witnessing the spirit of its combats. The Greeks esteemed its leg most highly, and rejected the other portions as unfashionable to be eaten. The Romans, however, ventured a little further, and ate the breast, whilst we consider the bird as wholly palatable. It is an inhabitant of all the temperate countries of Europe, but, on account ot the geniality of the climate, it abounds most in the Ukraine. 369.—PHEASANT SOUP. (Fr.—Pur6e de Faisan.) Ingredients.—2 pheasants, J lb. of butter, 2 slices of ham, 2 large onions sliced, ^ head of celery, the crumb of 2 French rolls, the yolks of 2 eggs, boiled hard, salt and cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace if liked ; 3 quarts of stock, No. 273. Mode.—Cut up the pheasants, flour and braise them in the butter and ham till they are of a nice brown, but not burnt. Put them in a stewpan, with the onions, celery and seasoning, and simmer for 2 hours. Strain the soup; pound the breasts ^ith the crumb of the roll previously soaked, and the yolks of the eggs; put it to the soup, give one boil, and serve. Time.—hours. Average Cost, 3s. per quart, or, if made with fragments of cold game, is. 6d. Seasonable from October to Fehi-uary. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—Fragments, pieces and bones of cold game may be used to great advan- tage in this soup, and then 1 pheasant wijl suffice.