1338 General Observations on Dinners and Dining. In another chapter we have to deal with covering and laying the taole; and its decorations will also be treated of. So we need only say in conclusion that nothing is more pleasant on entering a room in which we are to be enter- tained than to be struck with its grace and beauty, and when we sit down to be gladdened by an exquisitely arranged table, where there is something to admire throughout the meal, and nothing to obstruct the view, as is now the good custom. We feel at once quite ready and able to appreciate the good things in store. 3049. The meal of dinner, it has been said, is enjoyed all the more when the breakfast has been light, and, we may presume when no luncheon has come between to mar the arrangement of our digestive powers. But our advice is, eat as good a breakfast as you can ; it is a foundation both mentally and bodily for health during the day. Dinner, however, is the meal of the day, the piece de resistance on which we chiefly expend our culinary knowledge and labours. To see about the dinner is the housewife’s chief morning, and sometimes overnight, reflection. It is, too, the prominent work of the morning hours with herself and her cook, or general servant. It is a meal that, whilst it exercises our powers of ingenuity, and requires expended upon it an immense amount of attention, to say nothing of time, is spoiled by a mere breath of mismanagement. 3050. Rules for Dinner-giving.—Before we can come to the actual arrangements of our dinner-table we must come to a perfect understanding concerning the following matters :— Rule 1.—Let your family dinner hour be at a given hour, and let that hour be the dinner hour. Allow no shirking here from anyone unless accident or circum stances render such compulsory. Then you stand some chance of being able to turn your cookery talents, if you have any, to account, or, if you have not them already, to cultivate them. Rule 2.—Always arrange your dinner, having a kind of mind’s-eye menu, satisfactorily beforehand, before you attempt either to give directions concerning it or to help, it may be, in its preparation. Without this, you may give your family or your guests an eatable, presentable dinner now and then, a kind of accidental good fortune, but, as a general rule, it will be a failure. Experienced housekeepers may exclaim, “But do women ever behave so foolishly ? ’’ Yes, they do, times out of number, and to that they may attribute much of their failure in dinner-giving. When the architect has planned a house the builder may build it ; when an author has planned a book he may write it with comparative ease; and when we have thought- fully “ compiled ’’ our dinner, we may cook it. First we want the “ mind’s-eye menu,’’ and then one for our outward eye, and our cook’s observance. Rule 3.—For a “-hot dinner ’’ let the plates be hot, not warm merely, but hot. The best dinner you can give your guests will be spoiled if you serve it to them on plates in which almost before they begin to eat the gravy floats about in small island-like patches. Rule 4.—Give due attention to the “order” of courses. You do not want your fish, for instance, ready before the soup, causing the former to look flabby, and most likely break and lose their trim appearance. Rule 5.-—Be careful in dishing vegetables, that they are perfectly drained from SPOON-WARMER.