Semolina Pudding. 881 butter, salt and sugar with a fork and the remainder of the milk warmed, add to the contents of the bowl, and continue working the mixture, drop- ping in an egg until all are used. Cut the peel into small dice and mix with the paste. Butter a fluted cylinder mould, strew the chopped almonds over it and half fill it with the paste. Let it stand until it has risen to the top of the mould, bake it and turn it out. Serve it with syrup poured over it, flavoured (preferably) with anisette. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1876.—BAKED SEMOLINA PUDDING. Ingredients.--3 oz. of semolina, pint of milk, £ lb. of sugar, 12 bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, 4 eggs. Mode.—Flavour the milk with the bitter almonds by infusing them in it by the side of the fire for about half an hour; then strain it, and mix with it the semolina, sugar, and butter. Stir these ingredients over the fire for a few minutes; then take them off, and gradually mix in the eggs, which should be well beaten. Butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff- paste, put in the pudding, and bake in rather a slow oven from 40 to 50 minutes. Serve with custard sauce or stewed fruit, a little of which may be poured over the pudding. Time.—40 to 50 minutes. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Semolina.—After vermicelli, Semolina is the most useful ingredient that can be used for thickening soups, meat or vegetable, of rich or simple quality. Semolina is softening, light, wholesome, easy of digestion, and adapted to the infant, the aged, and the invalid. That of a clear yellow colour, well dried and newly made, is the fittest for use. 1877.—SHROPSHIRE PUDDING. Ingredients.—I lb. of suet, £ lb. of bread-crumbs, 1 lemon, juice and rind, 1 grating of nutmeg, £ lb. of sugar, 5 eggs. Mode.—Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, beating the eggs, adding them last; butter a mould, place the mixture in it, tie down, and boil 4 hours. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1878.—SPARROWS. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk or cold water, £ lb. of flour, salt, 2 oz. of butter, teacupful of bread-crumbs.