Filleted Turbot. 269 To Choose Turbot.—See that it is thick and of a yellowish white ; for if of a bluish tint, it is not good. The Turbot.—This is the most es- teemed of all our flat fish. The northern parts of the English coast, and some places off the south of Holland, produce turbot in great abundance and in greater excellence than other parts of the world. The London market is chiefly supplied by Dutch fishermen, who bring to it nearly 90,000 a year. The flesh is firm, white, rich and gelatinous, and is the better for being kept a day or two previous to cooking it. In many parts of the country, turbot and hali- but are indiscriminately sold for each other. They are, however, perfectly distinct; the upper parts of the for- mer being marked with large, unequal and obtuse tubercles, while those of the other are quite smooth, and cov- ered with oblong soft scales, which firmly adhere to the body. THE TURBOT. Fish-Kettles are made in an oblong form, and have two handles, with a movable bottom, pierced tull of holes, on which the fish is laid, and on which it may be lifted from the water, by means of two long handles attached to each side of the movable bottom. This is to prevent the liability of breaking the fish, as it would necessarily be if it were cooked in a common saucepan. 574. —BAKED FILLETS OF TURBOT. {Fr.—Filets de Turbot au Gratin.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold turbot, lobster sauce left from the preceding day, egg and bread-crumbs, cayenne and salt to taste, minced parsley, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Mode.—After having cleared the fish from all skin and bone, divide it into square pieces of an equal size ; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and seasoning. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sufficient butter to baste with. Bake for a quarter of an hour, and do not forget to keep them well moistened with the butter. Put a little lemon-juice and grated nutmeg to the cold lobster sauce; make it hot, and pour over the fish, which must be well drained from the butter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Cold turbot thus warmed in the remains of lobster sauce will be found much nicer than putting the tish again in water. 575. —FILLETS OF TURBOT WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. {Fr— Filets de Turbot a l’ltalienne.) Ingredients. — The remains of cold turbot, Italian sauce {see Sauces).