Yeast Dumplings. 88g or soft crumb, and at the moment of serving, fill it with the strawberries, which should be picked, and broken up with sufficient sugar to sweeten them nicely. Place a few spoonfuls of whipped cream on the top, and serve. Time.—£ hour to 40 minutes to bake the vol-au-vmt. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for I vol-au-vent. Seasonable in June and July. Strawberry.—Amon? the Greeks, the name of the strawberry indicated its tenuity, this fruit forming hardly a mouthful. With the Latins, the name reminded one of the delicious perfume of this plant. Both nations were equally fond of it, and applied the same care to its cultivation. Virgil appears to place it in the same rank with flowers ; and Ovid gives it a tender epithet, which delicate palates would not disavow. Neither doe3 this luxurious poet forget the wild strawberry, which disappears beneath its modest foliage, but whose presence the scented air reveals. 1897. —WASHINGTON PUDDING. Ingredients.—6 oz. of butter, 3 eggs, \ lb. of sifted flour, 2 tablespoon- fuls of raspberry jam, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mode.—Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well-beaten. Mix the soda with the flour, add to the mixture, stir in the jam. Beat all well together; boil in a mould for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, gi. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1898. —WEST INDIAN PUDDING. Ingredients.—I pint of cream, \ lb. of loaf sugar, \ lb. of Savoy or sponge cakes, 8 eggs, 3 oz. of preserved green ginger. Mode.—Crumble down the cakes, put them into a basin, and pour over them the cream, which should be previously sweetened and brought to the boiling-point; cover the basin, well beat the eggs, and when the cream is soaked up, stir them in. Butter a mould, arrange the ginger round it, pour in the pudding carefully, and tie it down with a cloth ; steam or boil it slowly for 1^ hour, and serve with the syrup from the gingsr, which should be warmed and poured over the pudding. Time.—1^ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1899.—YEAST OR NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. Ingredients.—} quartern of dough, boiling water. Mode.—Make a very light dough as for bread, using to mix it, milk, instead of water; divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings : plunge them into boil- ing water, and boil them for twenty minutes. Serve the instant they are