I02Q To Pickle Lemons. Mode.—Peel the lemons, slit each one down 3 times, so as not to iprinkling oi mustard seed, and tie the jars securely down wit iladder. Seasonable.—Make this in June. 2229.—LADIES’ DELIGHT PICKLE. Ingredients.—8 oz. of onions, 8 oz. of apples, 2 oz. of chilies, x pint of It Iwhite wine vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Chop the onions, apples and chilies; then boil the vinegar and salt and pour it over the ingredients named before; mix well, and when quite cold put it into small jars. It is to be eaten with cold meat. Seasonable in September. [I believe this is fully as much the Gentlemen’s Delight.—Ed ] 2230.—TO PICKLE LEMONS WITH THE PEEL ON. {Fr.—Citrons Marines.) Ingredients.—6 lemons, 2 quarts of boiling water ; to each quart of vinegar allow £ oz. of cloves, £ oz. of white pepper, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, J oz. of mace and chilies, x oz. of mustard seed, stick of sliced horse radish, a few cloves of garlic. Mode.—Put .the lemons into a brine that will bear an egg; let them remain in it 6 days, stirring them every day; have ready 2 quarts o boiling water, put in the lemons, and allow them to boil for a quarter of an hour; take them out and let them lie in a cloth until perfectly dry and cold. Boil up sufficient vinegar to cover the lemons, with all the above ingredients, allowing the same proportion as stated to each quart o vinegar. Pack the lemons in a jar, pour over the vinegar, &c. boiling hot, and tie down with a bladder. They will be fit for use in about 12 months, or rather sooner. Seasonable.—This should be made from November to April. The Lemon.-In the earlier ages of the world, the lemon does not appear .tohave been at all known and the Romans only became acquainted with it at a very late period, and then only used it’to keep moths from their garments. Its acidity thpm • and in Plinv’s time, at the commencement of the Christian era, tms trim was narcuy accepted, otherwise than as an excellent antidote against the effects ^m0^0nAt^n^urrLatin have been related concerning the anti-venomous properties of the lemon , Athenaeus, a Latin writer, telling us, that on one occasion two men felt no effects from the bites of dangerous serpents, because they had previously eaten of this fruit. 2231.—TO PICKLE LEMONS WITHOUT THE PEEL. (Fr.— Citrons Marines.) Ingredients.—6 lemons, 1 lb. of fine salt, to each quart of vinegar, the same ingredients as No. 2230.