Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 654 The Feather-Legged Bantam.—Since the introduction of the Bantam into Europe, it has rami- fied into many varieties, none of which aie destitute of elegance, and some, indeed, remarkable for their beauty. All are, or ought to be, of small size, but lively and vigorous, exhibiting in their movements both grace and stateliness. The variety shown in the engraving is remarkable for the tarsi, or beams of the legs, being plumed to the toes with stiff, long feathers, which brush the ground. Owing, possibly, to the little care taken to preserve this variety from admixture, it is now not frequently seen. Another variety is often red, with a black breast and singledentated comb. The tarsi, are smooth, and of a dusky blue. When this sort of Bantam is pure, it yields in courage and spirit to none, and is, in fact, a game-fowl in miniature, being as beautiful and graceful as it is spirited. A pure white Bantam, possessing all the qualifications just named, is also bred in the royal aviary at Windsor. FEATHER-LEGGED BANTAMS. 1360.—AN INDIAN DISH OF FOWL. (Fr.— Poulet au Kari.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 3 or 4 sliced onions, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, salt to taste. Mode.—Divide the fowl into joints ; slice and fry the onions in a little butter, taking care not to burn them ; sprinkle over the fowl a little curry- powder and salt ; fry these nicely, pile them high in the centre of the dish, cover with the onion, and serve with a cut lemon on a plate. Care must be taken that the onions are not greasy; they should be quite dry, but not burn. Time.—5 minutes to fry the onions; 10 minutes to fry the fowl. Aver- age Cost, exclusive of the fowl, 4d. Seasonable during the winter months. The Speckled Hamburg.—Of the Speckled, ol Spangled Hamburg, which is a favourite breed with many persons, there are two varieties—the golden-speckled and the silver-speckled. The gene- ral colour of the former is golden or orange-yellow, each feather having a glossy dark brown or black tip, particularly remarkable on the hackles of the cock and the wing-coverts, and also on the darker feathers of the breast. The female is yellow, or orange-brown, the feathers in like manner being margined with black. The silver-speckled variety is distinguished by the ground colour of the plumage being of a silver-white, with perhaps a tinge of straw-yellow, every feather being margined with a semi-lunar mark of glossy black. Both of these varieties are extremely beautiful; the hens .aying freely. First-rate birds command a high price. SPECKLED HAMBUKGS. 1361.-FOWL SAUTE WITH PEAS. (Fr.—Poulet Saute aux Petits Pois.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 2 oz. of butter, pepper, salt and pounded mace to taste, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, | pint of weak stock. 1 pint of green peas. 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar.