414 Recipes for Cooking Beef. draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done. Sprinkle a small quantity of salt over it, empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour in some boiling water slightly salted, stir it about, and strain over the meat. Garnish with tufts of horseradish, and send horse- radish sauce and Yorkshire pudding to table with it. Time.—A sirloin of 10 lbs., 2i hours; 14 to 16 lbs., about 4 or 4$ hours. Average Cost, 9 d. Per in- sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs., for 12 persons. Seasonable at any time. The rump, round and other pieces of beef are roasted in the same manner, allowing for solid joints ^ hour to every pound. Note.—The above is the usual method of roasting meat; but to have it in perfection, and the juices kept in, the meat should at first be laid close to the fire, arid, when the outside is set and firm, drawn away to a good distance, and then left to roast very slowly ; where economy is studied, this plan would not answer, as the meat requires to be at the fire double the time of the ordinary way of cooking; consequently, double the quantity of fuel would be consumed. Origin of the word “Sirloin.”—The loin of beef is said to have been knighted by King Charles II., at Friday Hall, Chingford. “ The Merry Monarch" returned to this hospitable mansion from Epping Forest literally “ as hungry as a hunter,” and beheld, with delight, a huge loin of beef steaming upon the table. “A noble joint!” exclaimed the king. “ By St. George, it shall have a title.” Then drawing his sword, he raised it above the meat, and cried, with mock dignity, “ Loin, we dub thee knight; henceforth be Sir Loin ! ” This anecdote is doubt- less apocryphal, although the oak table upon which the joint was supposed to have received its knighthood might have been seen by anyone who visited Friday Hill House a few years ago. It is, perhaps, a pity to spoil so noble a story; but the interests of truth demand that we declare sirloin is probably a corruption of surloin, which signifies the upper part of a loin, the prefix sur being equivalent to over or above. In French we find this joint called surlongc, which so closely resembles our sirloin, that we may safely refer the two words to a core mon origin. 925.—TO SALT BEEF. (Fr.—Bceuf Sate). Ingredients.—4 round of beef, 4 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of powdered saltpetre, 2 oz. of black pepper, £ lb. of bay-salt, ^ lb. of common salt. Mode.—Rub the meat well with salt, and let it remain for a day, to disgorge and clear it from slime. The next day, rub it well with the above ingredients on every side, and let it remain in the pickle for about a fortnight, turning it every day. It may be boiled fresh from the pickle, or smoked. Time.—^ round of beef to remain in pickle about a fortnight. Average Cost, 8%d. per lb. Seasonable at any time. Note,—The aitchbone, flank, or brisket may be salted and pickled by any of the recipes we have giyen for salting beef, allowing less time for small joints to remain in the pickle; for instance, a jcint of § or q lbs. will be sufficiently salt in about a week. ‘ ' " ’ "