Stewed Tomatoes. 783 pepper and salt, and place small pieces of butter on them. Cover the lid down closely, and stew from 20 to 25 minutes, or until the tomatoes are perfectly tender; stir two or three times and serve with any kind of roast meat, with which they will be found a delicious accom- stewed tomatoes. paniment. Time.—20 to 25 minutes. Average Cost, in full season, 8d. or 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to October; but may be had, forced, much earlier. Analysis Of the Tomato.—The fruit of the love-apple is the only part used as an esculent, and it has been found to contain a particular acid, a volatile oil, a brown very fragrant extracto- resinous matter, a vegcto-mineral matter, mucho saccharine, some salts and, in all probability, an alkaloid. The whole plant has a disagreeable odour, and its juice, subjected to the action of the tire, emits a vapour so powerful as to cause vertigo and vomiting. 1637.—STEWED TOMATOES. (Fv.—Tomates au Jus.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—8 tomatoes, about £ pint of good gravy, thickening of butter and flour, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Take out the stalks of the tomatoes; put them into a wide stewpan, pour over them the above proportion of good brown gravy, and stew gently until they are tender, occasionally carefully turning them, that they may be equally done. Thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour worked together on a plate ; let it just boil up after the thickening is added, and serve. If it be at hand, these should be served on a silver or plated vegetable-dish. Time-—20 to 25 minutes, very gentle stewing. Average Cost, in full season, English, 9d. per lb., American, 5d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or five persons. Seasonable in August, September and October; but may be had, forced, much earlier. The Tomato, or Love Apple.—This vegetable is a native of Mexico and South America, but is also found in the East Indies, where it is supposed to have been introduced by the Spaniards. In this country it is much more cultivated than it formerly was and the more the community becomes acquainted with the many agreeable forms in which the fruit can be prepared, the more widely will its cultivation be extended. For ketchup, soups, and sauces, it is equally applicable, and the unripe fruit makes one of the best pickles. 1638.—TRUFFLES (Fr.—Truffes au Naturel.) Ingredients.—Truffles, buttered paper. Mode.—Select some fine truffles; cleanse them, by washing them in