Saddle of Mniton. 5°5 of mutton -, ctnd if there is a very large proportion of fat, trim off some of it, and save it for making into suet puddings, which will be found ex- ceedingly good. Let the bones be cut short, and see that it is properly jointed before it is laid down to the fire, as they will be more easily separated when they come to table. Place the joint at a nice brisk fire, dredge it with flour, and keep continually basting until done. A few minutes before serving, draw it nearer the fire, to acquire a nice colour, sprinkle over it a little salt, pour off the dripping, add a little boiling water, slightly salted ; strain this over the meat and serve. Red currant jelly may be sent to table with it. Time.—4 lbs. of the neck of mutton, rather more than i hour. Average Cost, 7&Lper lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Woollen Manufactures. — The distinction between hair and wool is rather arbitrary than natural, consisting in the greater or less degrees of fineness, softness and pliability of the fibres. When the fibres possess these properties so far as to admit of their being spun and woven into a texture sufficiently pliable to be used as an article of dress, they are called wool. The sheep, Llama, Angora goat, and the goat of Thibet, are the animals from which most of the wool used in manufactures is obtained. The finest of all wools is that from the goat of Thibet, of which the Cashmere shawls are made. Of European wools, the finest is that yielded by the Merino sheep, the Spanish and Saxon breeds taking the precedence. The Merino sheep, as now naturalised in Australia, furnishes an excellent fleece; but all varieties of sheep-wool, reared either in Europe or Australia, are inferior in softness of feel to that grown in India, and to that of the Llama of the Andes. The best of our British wools are inferior in fineness to any of the above-mentioned, being nearly twelve times the thickness of the finest Spanish merino; but, for the ordinary purposes of the manufacturer, they are un- rivalled. 1107.—ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. (Fr.—Selle de Mouton Rotie.) Ingredients.—Saddle of mutton ; a little salt. Mode.—To insure this joint being tender, let it hang for ten days or a fortnight, if the weather permits. Cut off the tail and flaps, and trim away every part that has not indisputable pretensions to be eaten, and have the skin taken off and skewered on again. Put it down to a bright, clear fire, and, when the joint has been cooking for an hour, remove the skin and dredge it with flour. It should not be placed too near the fire, as the fat should not be in the slightest degree burnt, but kept constantly basted, both before and after the skin is remdved. Sprinkle some salt over the joint; make a little gravy in the dripping* S SADDLE OF MUTTON. NECK OF MUTTON. 1—2. Best end. 2—3. Scrag.