679 Roast Leveret. Mode.—Cut the legs and shoulders from a roast hare, season them highly with salt and cayenne, and broil them over a very clear fire for five minutes. Dish them on a hot dish, rub over them a little cold butter, and send to table very quickly. Time.—5 minutes. Seasonable from September to the end of February. 1400.-ROAST LANDRAIL, OR CORN-CRAKE. Ingredients.—3 or 4 birds, butter, fried bread-crumbs. Mode.—Pluck and draw the birds, wipe them inside and out with damp cloths, and truss them in the following man- ner:—Bring the head round under the wing, and the thighs close to the sides; pass a skewer through them and the body, and keep the legs straight. Roast them before a clear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on fried bread-crumbs, with a tureen of brown gravy. When liked, bread-sauce may also be sent to table with them. Time.—12 to 20 minutes. Average Cost.—Seldom bought. Sufficient.—Allow 4 for a dish. Seasonable from August 12th to the middle of September. The Landrail, or Corn-Crake.— This bird is migratory in its habits, yet, from its formation, it seems ill-adapted for long aerial passages, its wings being short, and placed so forward out of the centre of gravity that it flies in an extremely heavy and embarrassed manner, and with its legs hanging down. When it alights, it can hardly be sprung a second time, as it runs very fast, and seems to depend for its safety more on the swiftness of its feet than the celerity of its wings. It makes its appearance in England about the same time as the quail, that is, in the months of April and May, and Irequents the same places. Its singular cry is first heard when the grass becomes long enough to shelter it, and it continues to be heard until the grass is cut. The bird, however, is seldom seen, for it con- stantly skulks among the thickest portions of the herbage, and runs so nimbly through it, doubling and winding in every direction that it is difficult to get near it. It leaves this Island before the winter, and repairs to other countries in search of its food, which princi- pally consists of slugs, large numbers of which it destroys. It is very common in Ireland, and, whilst migrating to this country, is seen in great numbers in the island of Anglesea. On its first arrival in England, it is so lean as scarcely to weigh above five or six ounces; before its de- parture, however, it has been known to exceed eight ounces, and is then most delicious eating. 1401.—TO DRESS A LEVERET. (Ft.—Levraut Roti.) Ingredients.—2 leverets, butter, flour. Mode.—Leverets should be trussed in the same manner as a hare, but they do not require stuffing. Roast them before a clear fire, and keep them well basted all the time they are cooking. A few minutes before serving, dredge them lightly with flour, and froth them nicely. Serve with plain gravy in the dish, and send to table red-currant jelly with them. THB LANDRAIL. LANDRAILS.