703 Vegetarian Recipes. Mode.—First boil the barley, peas and water for 2 hours very slowly; then add the potatoes, vinegar and salt, and simmer for another hour. Put in the bread just before serving. Note.—If it is cooked fast more water will have to be added, as it will boil away ; but it is much better to simmer it. 1461.—GREEN PEA SOUP. Ingredients.—1 pint of peas, with their shells ; 1 small lettuce, a spray of parsley and one of mint, 1 small leek, 2 quarts of water, | pint of milk, cr milk and cream ; salt, pepper, soda, sugar. Mode.—Shell the peas and put them into the boiling water and soda, with their shells and the other vegetables. In about 20 minutes take out a few of the peas for garnish and rub the rest of the vegetables through * a sieve. The greater part of the shells can be rubbed through, and they make quite as good soup as the peas themselves. Boil the soup again, adding sugar and seasoning and the milk. If cream is put in it must not be boiled. Garnish with the whole peas and serve at once. 1462.—BROWN VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients.—2 quarts of water, a slice of bread, 1 cabbage, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, 2 potatoes, parsley, salt, pepper, 1 tablespoonful of oil. Mode.—Fry a sliced onion in a little oil in the bottom of a large sauce- pan. When it is brown, but not burnt, add 2 quarts of water, salt, pepper, a slice of stale bread toasted, and vegetables cut up small. One small cabbage, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, 2 or 3 potatoes, and a bunch of parsley make a good soup. French beans, peas, with their shells, celery, parsnips, or any other vegetable may be added. Boil 3 or 4 hours, then mash it through a colander, or in the saucepan with a spoon, boil another 10 minutes, and the soup is ready. If it is too thick, add more water and boil ten minutes after putting the water in ; if too thin, boil fast with the lid off the saucepan until it is thick enough. VEGETABLE SAVOURIES. 1463.—FRIED bananas. Ingredients.—Bananas, peeled ; flour, oil or cutter to fry. Mode.—Cut the bananas in slices and flour each, fry a light brown in a frying pan, serve with fried bread, or with poached eggs, as bacon and eggs are served.