i6o6 The Doctor< 3651. The Jfflilk.—It has been already pointed out that if nothing in the mother’s condition prevents her suckling her infant, it is her duty to do so ; but certain conditions must be complied with in order that it, may be beneficial to the child and not hurtful to the mother. During che first few days, until the milk comes to the breasts, the infant should not be applied more frequently than once in every six hours, but should have a little cow’s milk, diluted with boiling water and sweetened with loaf sugar, given occasionally instead. When the milk has come to the breasts all artificial nourishment must cease, and the child be put to the breast regularly. The frequency with which this should be done during the first month is once every two hours during the day, and once every three or four hours during the night. The best time to give the child the breast is when it awakes out of sleep, and, on its hunger being appeased, it will generally fall asleep again without further trouble. After the first month the breast should not be given more frequently than once every two and a half or three hours during the day, and during the night once every three or four hours. As the child grows older, the time which is allowed to intervene between each meal should be increased. Till the appearance of the first or milk teeth, the child should be fed exclusively on the breast milk ; after that, which is nature’s indication that the stomach has become fit to digest other substances, the child may be given rusks, Chapman’s entire wheat, Hard’s farinaceous food, or Robinson’s groats. About the ninth or tenth month the mother should begin to wean her child. The artificial feeding begun on the appearance of the teeth should now be increased in the frequency of its administration, while the breast should be at the same time gradually withdrawn. It is difficult to determine the quantity of food to be given at any one time, but it may be laid down, as a rule, that not more than about three ounces of fluid shall be given at any one time. When larger quantities are given the stomach is apt to become overloaded and the digestive powers impaired. Should the breasts become swollen after weaning, gentle saline medicines should be administered, such as Friedrichshalle water, a seidlitz powder, or a little Epsom salts, and the breasts be bathed with a lotion of eau-de-Cologne and water. 3652. The Wet-Nurse.—For reasons that have been already stated it may be found necessary to obtain the services of a wet-nurse. As this is a very im- portant matter, it generally devolves upon the medical attendant, but it is as well that the unprofessional should know at least some of the qualifications that are deemed necessary in those who are to hold this post. The age at which a woman is best suited to perform the duties of wet-nurse is between the twentieth and thirtieth year. Preference is to be given to the woman who has already had one or two children of her own, for the reason that the milk is richer and more nourishing in those who have already borne children, and she is likely to be more experienced. It is necessary that the ages of the children should nearly correspond; where there is any great disproportion, as when the age of one child is a few weeks, while that of the other is six or seven months, the woman should be rejected. As the health of the woman is a matter of primary importance, the opinion of a medical man should always be obtained. If there is any evidence of constitutional disease, such as consumption or syphilis, the woman is unfit to undertake the duties of wet-nurse. As the moral qualities of the woman are no less essential than the physical, these should be inquired into most carefully. She should be strictly temperate, cleanly, cheerful, willing and obliging, frank and outspoken. Her diet should be plain and nutritious, Over-