H.54 General Observations on Milk, Butter, Cheese, &c. 2571. The principal varieties of cheese used in England are the following:—Cheshire Cheese, famed all over Europe for its rich quality and fine piquant flavour. It is made of entire new milk, the cream not being taken off. Gloucester Cheese is much milder in its taste than the Cheshire. There are two kinds of Gloucester cheese—single and double. Single Gloucester is made of skimmed milk, or of milk deprived of half the cream; Double Gloucester is a cheese that pleases almost every palate : it is made of the whole milk and cream. Stilton Cheese is made by adding the cream of one day to the entire milk of the next: it was first made at Stilton, in Leicestershire. Gorgonzola strongly resembles Stilton, and has a large sale. Much is now made in England to imitate the original. Sage Cheese is so called from the practice of colouring some curd with bruised sage, marigold-leaves, and parsley, and mixing this with some uncoloured curd. With the Romans, and during the middle ages, this practice was extensively adopted. Cheddar Cheese is manufactured principally at Pennard, near Cheddar, and is one of the best and most well-known cheese we consume. American Cheddar is considered the best of those cheeses sold as American. Brickbat Cheese has nothing remarkable except its form. It is made by turning with rennet a mixture of cream and new milk. The curd is put into a wooden vessel the shape of a brick, and is then pressed and dried in the usual way. Dunlop Cheese has a peculiarly mild and rich taste: the best is made entirely from new milk. New Cheese (as it is called in London) is made chiefly in Lincolnshire, and is either made of all cream, or, like Stilton, by adding the cream of one day’s milking to the milk that comes immediately from the cow : they are extremely thin, and are compressed gently two or three times, turned for a few days, and then eaten new with rad- ishes, salad, &c. Skimmed-Milk Cheese is made in most dairy countries, and is eaten by the peasantry, but is not generally ex- ported. There are some exceptions, such as the Parmesan Cheese, made in Parma and Piacenza, the most celebrated of all cheese, and made entirely of skimmed cow’s milk. The high flavour which it has is supposed to be owing to the rich herbage of the meadows of the Po, where the cows are pastured. The best Parmesan is kept for three or four years, and none is carried to market till it is at least six months old. Dutch Cheese derives its peculiar pungent taste from the practice adopted in Holland of coagulating the milk with muriatic acid instead of rennet. Swiss Cheeses, in their several varieties, are all remarkable for their fine flavour. That from GruySre, a bailiwick in the canton of Fribourg, is best known in England. It is flavoured by the dried herb of Melilotos officinalis in powder. Cheese from milk and potatoes is manufactured in Thuringia and Saxony. Cream Cheese, although so called, is not properly cheese, but is nothing more than cream dried sufficiently to be cut with a knife. All cheeses are imitated in countries and places other than those from which they get their conventional names. Cheese is also made of skimmed milk mixed with animal fats or “ bosch ” butter in the place of the cream that has been removed for sale. Camembert is a Brittany cheese, one of the most esteemed of cream cheeses, it. being richer than most ; it is a small flat cheese of a pale yellow colour, with a dark rind. Roquefort is a very rich cheese, made in the South of France, from the milk of sheep and goats. Like Stilton, it has to be kept a considerable time before it i? sufficiently ripe for eating. Shabzieger is a cheese exceedingly strong both