Broad Beads. 737 Oushel of peaS eighteen pounds more, or, according to some, twenty pounds. A thousand parts of bean-flour were found by Sir. H. Davy to yield 570 parts of nutritive matter, of which 426 were mucilage or starch, 103 gluten, and 41 extract, or matter rendered insoluble during the process. 1544-BROAD BEANS A LA POULETTE. (Fr.—Feves.) Ingredients.—2 pints of broad beans, £ pint of stock or broth, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, a small lump of sugar, the yolk of 1 egg, £ pint of cream, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.— Procure some young and freshly gathered beans, and shell sufficient to make 2 pints; boil them, as in the preceding recipe, until nearly done; then drain them and put them into a stewpan, with the stock, finely-minced herbs and sugar. Stew the beans until perfectly tender, and the liquor has dried away a little ; then beat up the yolk of an egg with the cream, add this to the beans, let the whole get thoroughly hot, and when on the point of simmering, serve. Should the beans be very large, the skins should be removed previously to boiling them or after they are boiled, which is quicker. Time.—10 minutes to boil the beans, 15 minutes to stew them in the stock. Average Cost, unshelled, 6d. per peck. Seasonable in July and August. Origin and Varieties of the Bean.—This valuable plant is said to be a native of Egypt, but, like other plants which have been domesticated, its origin is uncertain. It has been cultivated in Europe and Asia from time immemorial, and has been long known in Britain. Its varieties may be included under two general heads—the white, or garden-beans, and the gray, or field-beans. Of the former, sown in the fields, the mazagan and long-pod are almost the only sorts; of the latter, those known as the horse-bean, the small or ticks, and the prolific of Heligoland, are the principal sorts. New varieties are procured in the same manner as in other plants. 1545.— GOLDEN BEANS. (Fr.—Haricots a ia Creme.) (German Method.) Ingredients.—3 pints of golden beans, 4 pint of cream, 1 lump of sugar, $ pint of stock. Mode.—Cut off the stalk and pointed ends of the beans, but do not shell them ; boil by preceding recipe for twenty minutes. Have the stock boiling in another saucepan ; drain the beans from the water, and place them in the stock ; set it at the side of the fire to stew gently for fifteen minutes ; add the cream and sugar, and pepper and salt to taste, let all simmer one minute, and serve with the shells unremoved. Time.—20 minutes to boil; 15 minutes to stew. Average Cost, is. per peck ; seldom bought. Seasonable in September. The Golden Bean is much approved of in Germany, though little known in this country. It is sown early in June, and is of a bright golden hue in September. It should hang' on the plant until perfectly ripe. The pod and bean are eaten, and taste deliciously.