548 Recipes for Cooking Pork. ing the obdurate offender, said, in a tone of pious sorrow, “ Mike Regan, Mike Regan, you treat me with contempt i ” That night, when the family was all asleep, the' latch of the door was noiselessly lifted, and the “ illigant slip of a pig ” cautiously slipped into the cabin, 1201.—TO SMOKE HAMS AND FISH AT HOME. Take an old hogshead, stop up all the crevices, and fix a place to put a cross-stick near the bottom, to hang the articles to be smoked on. Next, in the side, cut a hole near the top, to introduce an iron pan filled with sawdust and small pieces of green wood. Having turned the tub upside down, hang the articles upon the cross-stick, introduce the iron pan in the opening, and place a piece of red-hot iron in the pan, cover it with sawdust, and all will be complete. Let a large ham remain 40 hours, and keep up a good smoke. 1202. —TO CURE BACON OR HAMS IN THE DEVONSHIRE WAY. Ingredients.—To every 14 lbs. of meat allow 2 02. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of salt prunella, 1 lb. of common salt. For the pickle, 3 gallons of water, 5 lbs. of common salt, 7 lbs. of coarse sugar, 3 lbs. of bay salt. Mode.—Weigh the sides, hams and cheeks, and to every 14 lbs. allow the above proportion of saltpetre, salt prunella and common salt. Pound and mix these together, and rub well into the meat; lay it in a stone trough or tub, rubbing it thoroughly, and turning it daily for 2 successive days. At the end of the second day, pour on it a pickle made as follows : Put the above ingredients into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and stir frequently; remove all the scum, allow it to boil for a quarter of an hour, and pour it hot over the meat. Let the hams, &c., be well rubbed and turned daily ; if the meat is small, a fortnight will be sufficient for the sides and shoulders to remain in the pickle, and the hams three weeks; if from 30 lbs. and upwards, 3 weeks will be required for the sides, &c., and from 4 to 5 weeks for the hams. On taking the pieces out, let them drain for an hour, cover with dry sawdust, and smoke from a fortnight to 3 weeks. Boil and carefully skim the pickle after using, and it will keep good, closely corked, for 2 years. When boiling it for use, add about 2 lbs. of common salt, and the same of treacle, to allow for waste. Tongues are excellent put into this pickle cold, having been first rubbed with salt- petre and salt, and allowed to remain 24 hours, not forgetting to make a deep incision under the thick part of the tongue, so as to allow the pickle to penetrate more readily. A fortnight or 3 weeks, according to the size of the tongue, will be sufficient. Time.—Small meat to remain in the pickle a fortnight, hams 3 Weeks ; to be smoked from a fortnight to 3 weeks.