The Invalid's Mutton Chop. 1243 2805.—TO MAKE MUTTON BROTH FOR INVALIDS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of the scrag-end of the neck of mutton, 1 onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, £ turnip, 3 pints of water, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Put the mutton into a stew-pan ; pour over the water cold, and add the other ingredients. When it boils, skim it very carefully, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer very gently for an hour ; strain it, let it cool, take off all the fat from the surface, and warm up as much as may be required, adding, if the patient be allowed to take it, a teaspoon- ful of minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Pearl barley or rice are very nice additions to mutton broth, and should be boiled as long as the other ingredients. When either of these is added, the broth must not be strained, but merely thoroughly skimmed. Plain mutton broth without seasoning is made by merely boiling the mutton, water and salt together, straining it, letting the broth cool, skimming all the fat off, and warming up as much as is required. This preparation would be very tasteless and insipid, but likely to agree with very delicate stomachs. Veal broth may be made in the same manner. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, yd. Sufficient to make from to 2 pints of broth Seasonable at any time. Note.—Mutton broth may be quickly made by cutting a chop into small pieces, putting these in a saucepan with the seasoning and § pint of water, bringing this quickly to the boil, then with the lid off continuing the rapid boiling for 20 minutes, skimming well. 2806.—THE INVALID’S MUTTON CHOP. A well broiled chop is a very digestible thing to give to an invalid. It should be cut fairly thin and thoroughly well cooked. None of the skin should be eaten of this or any meat. A fresh tomato is a wholesome and digestible accompaniment. To vary a diet of chops, of which most invalids tire, one may be cut from the loin, the next day the bone can be taken out and the chop rolled up and skewered, and a third 1 or 2 tiny cutlets from the neck might be served. The greatest care must be taken that the meat should not have the slightest taint, which is most likely to be in the under part or in the marrow. The under-cut of a loin of mutton is a very good and tender piece of meat to serve to an invalid. 2807.-PANADA FOR INVALIDS. These are rather different to what is understood by panada in the ordinary routine of cooking. They are useful in invalid cookery because LUNCHEON DISH.