1272 General Observations on French Cookery. garnish. Pheasant and partridge stand high in favour, and no dinner, even for six persons, is considered complete without some delicious salmis or fumee de gibier. Roast kid, unknown, or nearly so, in England, is a favourite dish, more especially in the South, where it is so plentiful that it is frequently cried in the streets. It is dressed like lamb, but often, when very young, roasted whole, and being stuffed with bread-crumbs and herbs, makes a very delicate morsel. Truffles form a very important feature of French cooking. They find their way into many a dish, rendered more savoury, though perhaps not more pleasing to the eye, by their dark presence. That pork cutlets should be seasoned with them goes without saying. Truffles are so common in France, that no French madame is likely to be in the position of an English lady—herself probably an exception— who a short time since drove up in her carriage to a French charcutier’s shop in the West End, and seeing a quantity of truffles in the window, asked what they were. On being told their name, she further enquired how they ought to be cooked, and triumphantly carried away two pounds, in order to let her cook make a first attempt at dressing them. Although far less expensive to purchase than in England, they are still too dear to be in frequent use, except amongst the well to do. Unlike the German working class, the poor live on the simplest fare. It is no uncommon thing to see a labouring man or woman—for they, too, labour in the fields—making his or her dinner off a piece of dry bread and garlic. 2888. French Dishes.— Garlic plays a great role in the flavouring of French dishes. The quantity used is sometimes so excessive as to make some of them quite inedible to the unaccustomed palate, but in delicate cookery its presence is scarcely suspected; nevertheless, on partaking of a gigot of mutton, for example, dainty little cloves of the fragrant bulb occasionally tumble out into one’s plate. Salads, too, are perfumed with it, a clove or two being simply rubbed through the salad and removed before the dish is brought to the table. 2889. French Soups.—Excellent as some of the French soups are, there is often much to be desired as regards the every day potages served in most houses. There is a lack of richness and thickening about them, which is not attractive even to the non-epicurean visitor. In the soupe aux choiix, cabbage leaves struggle about in pale-coloured bouillon, and in the soupe au pain there is little taste save of the floating bread crusts that cover over its surface. An effort is made to get good soups out of the bouilli, and yet make the latter appetising. Alas ! notwithstand- ing all its disguises, in the shape of sauces and pickles, if the soup has been really good, the meat has suffered accordingly and has nothing tempting left about it. 2890. Fish Dishes.—Much importance is attached to a good dish of fish, which frequently makes its appearance at the dejeuner, often in the form of a matelotte served up in red or white wine. A fish most generally in use is the skate, its quaint “ wings " being usually smothered in white sauce On the south coast the sturgeon is in every day use, and a huge slice of it, larded and covered with herbs, may be frequently seen carried through the streets to the baker’s oven. It looks and tastes very much like a fillet of veal. This attention to the preparation of fish is most natural in a country like France, where the rules of the Church prescribe as a penance, a maigre fare twice a week, though it is generally observed only on Fridays. This penance on the whole is a very pleasant one, for, besides the delicious dishes of fish, eggs, vegetables and sweets, dressed in most attractive and varied fa' hion, contributeto theenjoyment of the penitent, to say nothing of teal, which is no: regarded as meat. 2891. Poultry feeding is quite an art in France, and every French cook, male or female, knows how to cram a fowl, duck or goose. To watch them,