Fried Whiting. 271 578.—BOILED WHITING. (Fr.—Merlan k I’Eau.) Ingredients.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the fish, but do not skin them; lay them in a fish- kettle, with sufficient water to cover them, and salt in the above proportion. Bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer gently for about five minutes, or rather more should the fish be very large. Dish them on a hot napkin, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Serve with anchovy or caper sauce and plain melted butter. Time.—After the water boils, 5 minutes. Average Cost, 3d. to is. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficient, 1 small whiting for each per- son. To Choose Whiting.—Choose for the firm- ness of its flesh and the silvery hue of its ap- pearance. The 'Whiting.— This fish forms a light, tender and delicate food, easy of digestion. It appears in our seas in the spring within three miles of the shores, where it ar- rives in large shoals to deposit its spawn. it is caught by line, and is usually between ten and twelve inches long, and seldom exceeding a pound and a half in weight. On the edge of the Dogger Bank, however.it has been caught so heavy as to weigh from three to seven or eight pounds. When less than six inches long it is not allowed to be caught. 579—BROILED WHITING. (Fr.—Merlan Grille.) Ingredients.—Salt and water, flour. Mode.—Wash the whiting in salt and water, wipe them thoroughly, and let them remain in the cloth to absorb all moisture. Flour them well, and broil over a very clear fire. Serve with maitre d’hotel sauce, or plain melted butter (see Sauces). Be careful to preserve the liver, as by some it is con- sidered very delicate. Time.—5 minutes for a small whiting. Average Cost, 4d. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficient, 1 small whiting for each person. Buokhorn. Whitings caught in Cornwall are salted and dried, and in winter taken to the mar- kets, and sold under the singular name of “ Buckhorn.’’ 580.-FRIED WHITING. {Fr.—Merlan Frit.) Ingredients.—Egg and bread-crumbs, a little flour, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Take off the skin, clean and thoroughly wipe the fish, and rub it with flour to free it from all moisture, as this is most essential, in order that the egg and bread-crumbs may properly adhere. Fasten the tail in