Carving of Sucking-Pig. 561 back to back in the dish, with one half of the head on each side, and one of the ears at each end, and send it to table as hot as possible. Instead of the butter, many cooks take salad oil for basting, which makes the crackling crisp; and as this is one of the principal things to be considered, perhaps it is desirable to use it; but be particular that it is very pure, or it will impart an unpleasant flavour to the mead. The brains and stuffing may be stirred into a tureen of melted butter instead of gravy, when the latter is not liked. Apple-sauce and the old-fashioned currant-sauce are not yet quite obsolete as an accompaniment to roast pig. Time.—14 to 2 hours for a small pig. Average Cost, 6s. to 8s. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable from September to February. How Roast Pig was Discovered.—Charles Lamb, who, in the early part of this century, de- lighted the reading public by his quaint prose sketches, written under the title of “ Essays of Elia," has, in his own quiet, humorous way, devoted one paper to the subject of Roast Pig, and more especially to that luxurious and toothsome dainty known as “ crackling and shows, in a manner peculiarly his own, “ how crackling first came into the world." According to this erudite authority, man, in the golden age—or, at all events, the primitive age— eat his pork and bacon raw, as, indeed, he did his beef and mutton ; unless, as Hudibras tells us, he was an epicure, when he used to make a saddle of his saddle of mutton, after spreading it on his horse’s back, and riding on it for a few hours, till thoroughly warmed, he sat down to the luxury oi a dish cooked to a turn. At the epoch of the story, however, a citizen of some Scythian com- munity had the misfortune to have his hut, or that portion of it containing his live stock of pigs, burnt down. In going over the debris on the following day, and picking out all the available salvage, the proprietor touched something unusually or unexpectedly hot, which caused him to shake his hand with great energy, and clap the tips ot his suffering fingers to his mouth. The act was simple and natural, but the result was wonderful. He rolled bis eyes in ecstatic pleasure, his frame distended, and, conscious of a celestial odour, his nostrils widened, and, while drawing in deep inspirations of the ravishing perfume, he sucked his fingers with a gusto he had never, in his most hungry moments, conceived. Clearing away the rubbish from beneath him, he at last brought to view the carcase of one of his pigs, roasted to death. Stooping down to examine this curious object, and touching its body, a fragment of the burnt skin was detached, which, with a sort of superstitious dread, he at length, and in a spirit of philosophical inquiry, put into his mouth. Ye gods I the felicity he then enjoyed no pen can chronicle I then it was that he—the world—first tasted crackling. Like a miser with his gold, the Scythian hid his treasure from the prying eyes of the world, and feasted, in secret, more sumptuously than the gods. When he had eaten up all his pig, the poor man fell into a melancholy; he refused the most tempting steak, though cooked on the horse's back, and turned every half hour after his own favourite recipe; he fell in fact, from his appetite, and was reduced to a shadow, till, unable longer to endure the torments of memory he hourly suffered, he rose one night and secretly set fire to his hut, and once more was restored to flesh and manhood. Finding it impossible to live in future without roast-pig, he set firs to his house every time his larder became empty ; till at last his neighbours, scandalized by the frequency of these incendiary acts, brought his conduct before the supreme council of the nation. To avert the penalty that awaited him, he brought his judges to the smouldering ruins, and, discovering the secret, invited them to eat; which having done, with tears of grati- tude, the august synod embraced him, and, with an overflowing feeling of ecstasy, dedicated a statue to the memory of the man who first instituted roast pork. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING PORK. 1224.-SUCKING-PIG. A sucking-pig seems, at first sight, rather an elaborate dish, or rather animal, to carve; but, by carefully mastering the details of the busi- ness, every difficulty will vanish; and if a partial failure be at first