Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 330 727.—LIVER AND LEMON SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce de Foie au Citron.) (For Poultry.) Ingredients.—The liver of a fowl, 1 lemon, salt to taste, £ pint of melted butter, No. 676. Mode.—Wash the liver, and let it boil for a few minutes; peel the lemon very thin, remove the white part and pips, and cut it into very small dice; mince the liver and a small quantity of the lemon-rind very fine ; add these ingredients to half a pint of smoothly-made melted butter ; season with a little salt, put in the cut lemon, heat it gradually, but do not allow it to boil, lest the butter should oil. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient to serve with a pair of small fowls. 728.—LIVER AND PARSLEY. (Fr.—Sauce de Foie auPersil.) (For Poultry.) Ingredients.—The liver of a fowl, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, i pint of melted butter, No. 676. Mode.—Wash and score the liver, boil it for a few minutes, and mince it very fine ; blanch or scald a small bunch of parsley, of which there should be sufficient when chopped to fill a tablespoon; add this, with the minced liver, to half a pint of smoothly-made melted butter; let it just boil; when serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a pair of small fowls. 729.—LOBSTER SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce au Homard.) (To Serve with Turbot, Salmon, Brill, &c. Very Good.) Ingredients.—1 middling-sized hen lobster, \ pint of melted butter, No. 676 ; 1 tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, £ oz. of butter, salt and cayenne o taste, a little pounded mace when liked, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, a little lemon juice. Mode.—Choose a hen lobster, as this is indispensable, in order to ren- der this sauce as good a colour as it ought to be. Pick the meat from the shells, and cut it into small square pieces ; put the spawn, which will be found under the tail of the lobster, into a mortar with half an ounce of butter, and pound it quite smooth ; rub it through a hair sieve, and cover up till wanted. Make three quarters of a pint of melted butter by Recipe No. 676 ; put in all the ingredients except the lobster-meat, and well mix