Cabinet Pudding. 827 1739-ECLAIRS. Ingredients.—The same as No. 1738. Mode.—Mix exactly as No. 1738; rather stiff. Bake the mixture (in* stead of frying it) on sheets in strips 3 or 4 inches long, or in round pieces. The oven must not be very hot. When cold, glaze them with chocolate or other icing ; slit each cake, and put in a spoonful of cream or custard, flavoured to taste. 1740. —CABINET, OR CHANCELLOR’S, PUDDING. Ingredients.—i£ oz. of candied peel, 4 oz. of currants, 4 dozen sultanas, a few slices of Savoy cake, sponge cake, a French roll, 4 eggs, r pint of milk, grated lemon rind, 4 nutmeg, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Mode.—Melt some butter to a paste, and with it well grease the mould or basin in which the pudding is to be boiled, taking care that it is buttered in every part. Cut the peel into thin slices, and place these in a fanciful device at the bottom of the mould, and fill in the spaces between with currants and sultanas ; then add a few slices of sponge-cake or French roll; drop a few drops of melted butter on these, and between each layer sprinkle a few currants. Proceed in this manner till the mould is nearly full; then flavour the milk with nutmeg cabinet pudding. and grated lemon-rind; add the sugar, and stir to this the eggs, which should be well beaten. Beat this mixture for a few minutes ; then strain it into the mould, which should be quite full; tie a piece of buttered paper over it, and let it stand for 2 hours ; then tie it down with a cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil slowly for 1 hour. In taking it up, let it stand for a minute or two before the cloth is removed ; then quickly turn it out of the mould or basin, and serve with sweet sauce, sepa- rately. The flavouring of this pudding may be varied, by substituting for the lemon-rind essence of vanilla or bitter almonds ; and it may be made much richer by using cream ; but this is not at all necessary. This pud- ding is very delicious when iced. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1741. —A PLAIN CABINET OR BOILED BREAD-AND- BUTTER PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 oz. of raisins, a few thin slices of bread-and-butter, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, 4 nutmeg. Mode,—Butter a pudding-basin, and line the inside with a iayer of