1192 Recipes for Beverages. 2664.—TO ROAST COFFEE. (A French Recipe.) It being an acknowledged fact that French coffee is decidedly superior to that made in England, and as the roasting of the berry is of great importance to the flavour of the preparation, it will be useful and interest- ing to know how they manage these things in France. In Paris, there are two houses justly celebrated for the flavour of their coffee—La Matson Corcellet and La Maison Royer de Chartres; and to obtain this flavour, before roasting they add to every 3 lbs. of coffee a piece of butter the size of a nut, and a dessertspoonful of powdered sugar; it is then roasted in the usual manner. A tin in a slack oven, or a frying-pan over the fire will serve, with care. A rotating coffee roaster is of course better. The addi- tion of the butter and sugar develops the flavour and aroma of the berry ; but it must be borne in mind that the quality of the butter must be of the very best description. 2665.—TO MAKE COFFEE. (Fr.—Cafe.) Ingredients.—Allow £ oz., or I tablespoonful, of ground coffee to each person ; to every oz. of coffee allow £ pint of water. Mode.—To make coffee good, it should never be boiled, but the boiling water merely poured over it, the same as for tea. The coffee should always be purchased in the berry—if pos- sible, freshly roasted ; and it should never be ground long before it is wanted for use. There are very many new kinds of coffee- pots, but the method of making the coffee is nearly always the same; namely, pouring the boiling water on the powder, and allow- ing it to filter through. Our illustration shows one of Loysel’s Hydrostatic Urns, which are admirably adapted for making good and clear coffee, which should be made in the following manner:—Warm the urn with boiling water, remove the lid and movable filter, and place the ground coffee at the bottom of the urn. Put the movable filter over this, and screw the lid, inverted, tightly on the end of the centre pipe. Pour very slowly into the inverted lid the above proportion of boiling water, and when all the water so poured has dis- appeared from the funnel, and made its way down the centre pipe and up again through the ground coffee by hydrostatic pressure, unscrew the lid and cover the urn. Pour back direct into the urn. nut through the loysel's hydrostatic urn.