Plum Jam. 1013 well for at least half an hour, or until it looks nearly transparent. Put it into pots, cover down when cold, and store away in a dry place. Time.—| hour to boil the fruit. Average Cost, 10d. to is. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Foreign pines in July and August. The Pineapple in Heathendom.—Heathen nations invented protective' divinities for their orchards (such as Pomona, Vertumnus, Priapus, &c.), and benevolent patrons for their fruits: thus the olive-tree grew under the auspices of Minerva; the Muses cherished the palm-tree, Bacchus the fig and grape, and the pine and its cone were consecrated to the great Cybele. 2192.—PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. (For Present Use.) \ Ingredients.—Pineapple, sugar, water. Mode.—Cut the pine into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness; peel them and remove the hard part from the middle. Put the parings and hard pieces into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and boil for a quarter of an hour. Strain the liquor, and put in the slices of pine. Stew them for ten minutes, add sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely, and boil again for another quarter of an hour ; skim well, and the preserve will be ready for use. It must be eaten soon, as it will keep but a very short time. Time.—£ hour to boil the parings in water; 10 minutes to boil the pine without sugar, £ hour with sugar. Average Cost, Foreign pines, is. to 3s. each ; English, 2s. to 12s. per lb. Seasonable.—Foreign, in July and August; English, all the year. 2193.—PLUM JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of plums, weighed before being stoned, allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—In making plum jam, the quantity of sugar for each lb. of fruit must be regulated by the quality and size of the fruit, some plums requiring much more sugar than others. Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put them on to large dishes, with roughly pounded sugar sprinkled over them in the above proportion, and let them remain for one day; then put them into a preserving-pan, stand them by the side of the fire to simmer gently for about half an hour, and then boil them rapidly for another 15 minutes. The scum must be carefully removed as it rises, and the jam must be well stirred all the time, or it will burn at the bottom of the pan, and so spoil the colour and flavour of the preserve. Some of the stones may be cracked, and a few kernels added to the jam just before it is done : these impart a very delicious flavour to the plums. The above proportion of sugar would answer for Orleans plums; the Imperatrice. Magnum-bonum and Winesour would not require quite so much.