1630 Legal Memoranda. Posting any bill or paper on any property without consent of owner. Writing upon or defacing any building or fence. Blowing a horn or using any noisy instrument for hawking or calling people together. Ringing or knocking without reasonable cause. Extinguishing any lamp. Flying a kite or playing any game to the annoyance of inhabitants or passengers. Making or using a slide in any thoroughfare. Burning, dressing, or cleaning any cork ; or hooping, cleansing, firing or wash- ing any butt or cask in any thoroughfare. Hewing or cutting timber or stone in any thoroughfare. Slaking, sifting, or screening any lime in any thoroughfare. Laying on thoroughfare any coals or materials except for building in progress with proper precautions. *»* In most of the cases here referred to, the police have power to take the offender into custody or to serve a summons upon him to answer the charge. Residents in London have too much reason to remark that in these respects the police are very remiss, and that the law, in the majority of instances, is not enforced, but is disregarded with impunity and contempt. In most provincial towns similar offences are liable to similar penalties, but there is no uniformity between one town and another, either in the law, or in its administration. 3714. Repairs.—As a general rule the landlord is not liable to effect repairs beyond keeping the premises reasonably weather proof. All else is the duty of the tenant, so far as keeping the place habitable is concerned, and every repair beyond that necessity is at the tenant's expense, unless the landlord voluntarily undertakes it. 3715. Fences.—In the absence of other evidence, where there is a hedge and ditch, the hedge belongs to the field in which the ditch is. But if the owner of the field on the other side of the hedge has pruned the hedge and trimmed the ditch for twenty years without remonstrance from the owner of the other field, the pruning and trimming and acquiescence therein will establish ownership in the person who does such work. Where town and other residential properties are adjoining, the fence on one side of a tenant’s garden usually belongs to him and that on the other side to his neighbour. It is sometimes difficult to decide with certainty which fence belongs to the garden of which it is the boundary. It is well to determine this with certainty, as responsibilities may arise which may render the certainty important. The owner of cattle or other animals is liable if they stray or escape on to another man’s land, if he neglects to fence them in properly, and they may be detained and ultimately sold by the detainer unless the damage they have done is compensated for ; but if the defective fence belongs to the land strayed upon, the owner of that land is liable for any injury which the animals may conse- quently suffer. It is then one of the duties of the latter owner to restore the animals to their owner. In any case, the owner of the animals is entitled to go on the land where his animals have strayed, to bring them back. •A tree growing in the midst of a hedge generally belongs to the owner of the hedge, but if it be proved that the roots are mainly in the adjoining land the tree may belong to the owner of that land, though the branches may mostly project over the adjoining land, but, if the entire trunk be indisputably in one or the other land, that will determine the ownerships