1572 The Doctor, The contagion of small-pox is extremely active, spreading readily through a house, and often to neighbouring dwellings. It may be conveyed by the breath of a person affected with it before any eruption appears, and has been caught from a dead body, twelve days after decease. It may be transmitted for long distances in clothing, bedding, letters, &c. unless great care is taken to ventilate and disinfect the same. As it is often propagated by unscrupulous persons when travelling, whilst sick with mild forms of small-pox, or varioloid, we would advise every one to examine carefully, at the first opportunity, a vaccine pock upon a child’s arm, five, six or seven days after a successful vaccination, and then studi- ously avoid proximity to any strangers having similar eruptions upon their skin. Stringent laws are properly enforced against persons who endanger the public health by running the risk of disseminating the poison of small-pox. As we have, unfortunately, no such safeguards as vaccination against the other contagious diseases, such as scarlet fever, measles, &c., precautions against entering the sphere of their influence become doubly important, especially during epidemics of unusual fatality, or at times when cur systems are enfeebled in any way by other maladies or unfavourable conditions. 3538. Diseases among School Children.—These diseases are very apt to be propagated among school children by the return of scholars recovering from measles or diphtheria, for example, before the poison has entirely passed off from their bodies, and without proper purification of their clothing; a per- nicious practice which should also be legislated against, but which can only be fully abolished by the action of enlightened public opinion in regard to the injustice and criminality of such acts. No individual who has suffered from measles or diphtheria (which may be so mild as to pass for slight sore throat) can safely associate with others in less than two weeks from the date of complete recovery, and a period of from four to six weeks should elapse after an attack of scarlet fever before contact is allowed with children who have not been protected by a previous attack. Clothing, especially woollen fabrics, if not purified by thorough ventilation and disinfection, has been known to convey scarlet fever one, two, or even three years after it was inpregnated with the contagion of this disease. With such knowledge of the laws of propagation of the infectious maladies, it is obvious that the study of disinfection, or the destruction of the contagious material, be it vegetable, animal, or mineral, becomes of the gravest importance. When any member of a family is attacked with small-pox, scarlet fever, diphtheria, or other contagious disease, the malady may generally be prevented from extending by attention to the following rules:—Have the patient placed in one of the upper rooms of the house, the furthest removed from the rest of the family, where the best ventilation and isolation are to be had. He should be under the sole charge of a nurse who is protected by a previous attack of the disease. The apartment should be at once cleared of all curtains, crrpets, woollen goods, and unnecessary furniture. To secure the utmost cleanliness, provide a basin partly filled with chloride of lime or strong carbolic acid solution, (a teaspoonful of acid to half a pint of water) for the patient to spit in. Change the clothing and bedding of the patient as often as needful, but never let the cast- off articles be carried dry through the house. A large tub containing carbolic acid solution (four fluid ounces of carbolic acid to each gallon of water) should always stand in the room, for the reception of bed or body linen immediately after its being removed from contact with the patient, ,The nurse should wear in the chamber a loose gown and tight-fitting cap, to be thrown off at the door, and the hands should be washed, before going out, with the carbolic acid water. Pocket-handkerchiefs and napkins should not be used, but in their stead pieces of rag, which can be at once burned.