Men Servants’ Duties. 1462 even if the attendant likes a game of cribbage or whist himself, he must not in- terfere in his master or mistress’s game, nor even seem to take an interest in it. We once knew a lady who had a footman, and both were fond of a game of cribbage—John in the kitchen the lady in her drawing-room. The lady was a giver of evening parties, where she frequently enjoyed her favourite amusement. While handing about the tea and toast, John could not always suppress his dis- gust at her mistakes. “ There is more in that hand, ma’am,” he has been known to say ; or, “ Ma’am, you forgot to count his nob ; ” in fact, he identified himself with his mistress’s game, and would have lost twenty places rather than witness a miscount. It is not necessary to adopt his example on this point, although John had many qualities a good servant might copy with advantage. 3239. Footman’s Five>‘y.—It is usual to allow each man two suits per year, also to find them in silk stockings, and fur capes, if they are worn. A single man-servant does not wear livery. He is dressed in plain clothes as a butler. 3240. in which THE SINGLE MAN-SERVANT OR PAGE. Duties of Single Man-servant.— According to the household either of these is employtd. so will his duties be, but in all or any they partake of the various ones of the servants before mentioned. In many places the single man-servant devotes most of his time to the garden, the remainder being spent in cleaning windows, boots, knives, &c., bringing in water and coal, carrying messages and such work as would fall to the under footman in larger establishments. When this is the case, the man so employed is seldom required to wear livery or wait at table. In other establishments where a gardener is kept and no out-door work demanded of the one in-door servant, his duties are all that he can contrive to do of those of the butler and foot- man. He waits at table, assisted by the parlour- maid, cleans the plate, and, if required, attends to the cellar work. Also he could be required to answer the door to visitors during the afternoon, his rougher work being got over in the morning, although this in such establishments is often relegated to a boy who does not appear above stairs. odd man. 3241. Duties of the Page.—A page is sup- THE PAGE- posed as a rule (that is where no man-servant is kept) to do duty, to a certain extent, for all. In many cases he is kept more for appearance’ sake than anything else, some people preferring to see a boy answer the door or wait at table to women servants doing these duties. With the latter the page is seldom a favourite. Boys are proverbially tiresome ; they will not always be in trim for answer- ing doors, while if sent on messages, they waste time and patience very often. A neat parlour-maid is an excellent substitute for a page, and one whom most good housewives prefer. Still, a handy, willing, intelligent boy is a useful creature in a household, and if he really does his duty, as he gets older he can easily climb the ladder of domestic servitude, having had the advantage of early training. BLACKING-BRUSH BOX.