Cellular Contents of Plants. 723 one from the other; and within the cells are smaller cells, commonly known as pulp. Among the cell-contents of some plants are beautiful crystals, called rapliides. The term is derived from pacfus, a needle, on account of the resemblance «f the crystal to a needle. They are composed of the phosphate and oxalate of lime ; but there is great difference of opinion as to their use in the economy of the plant. The differences between the highest form of crystal and the lowest form of organic life known—viz., a simple reproductive cell, are manifold and striking. In a layer of an onion, a fig, a section of garden rhubarb, in some species of aloe, in the bark of many trees, and in portions of the cuticle of the medicinal squill, bundles of these needle-shaped crystals are to be found. Some of them are as large as i-qoth of an inch, others are as small as the i-ioooth. They are found in all parts of the plant—in the stem, bark, leaves, stipules, petals, fruit, roots, and even in the pollen, with some few exceptions, and they are always situated in the interior of cells. Some plants, as many of the cact '': SILICEOUS CUTICLE FROM UNDER SIDE OF LEAF OF DEUTZIA SCABRA. $ff, v *8 * u ^ 0 * bV # if. SILICEOUS CUTICLE OF GRASS. tribe, are made up almost entirely of these needle-crystals; in some instances, every cell of the cuticle contains a stellate mass of crystals; in others, the whole interior is full of them, rendering the plant so exceedingly brittle that the least touch will occasion a fracture ; so much so that some specimens of Cactus senilis, said to be a thousand years old, which were sent a few years since to Kew, from South America, were obliged to be packed in cotton, with all the care of the most delicate jewellery, to preserve them during transport. 1512. JBesides the Cellular Tissue, there is what is called a vascular system, which consists of another set of small vessels. If, for example, we, early in the spring, cut a branch transversely, we will perceive the sap oozing out from numerous points over the whole of the divided surface, except on that part occu- pied by the pith and the bark ; and if a twig, on which the leaves are already unfolded, be cut from the tree, and placed with its cut end in a watery solution of Brazil-wood, the colouring matter will be found to ascend into the leaves and to the top of the twig. In both these cases, a close examination with a powerful