138 Recipes for Soups. iu the cold water. Skim well, and occasionally add a little cold water to stop its boiling, until it becomes quite clear; then put in all the ingredients, and simmer very slowly for 5 hours. Do not let it come to a brisk boil, that the stock be not wasted, and that its colour may be preserved. Strain through a very fine hair sieve, or cloth, and the stock will be fit for use. Time.—5 hours. Average Cost, is. per quart. 273.—MEDIUM STOCK. (Fr.—Bouillon.) Ingredients.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. of each ; any bones, trimmings of poultry, or fresh meat, J lb. of lean bacon or ham, 2 oz. of butter, 2 large onions, each stuck with cloves ; 1 turnip, 3 carrots, r head of celery, 3 lumps of sugar, 2 oz. of salt, % a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, 1 large blade of mace, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 8 quarts of cold water. Mode.—Cut up the meat and bacon, or ham, into pieces of about 3 inches square; rub the butter on the bottom of the stew-pan; putin ^ a pint of water, the meat, and all the other ingredients. Cover the stewpan, and place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. When the bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale, jelly-like substance, add the 8 quarts of cold water, and simmer very gently for 5 hours. As we have said before, do not let it boil quickly. Remove every particle of scum whilst it is doing, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. This stock is the basis of many of the soups afterwards mentioned, and will be found quite strong enough for ordinary purposes. Time.—5^ hours. Average Cost, 8d. per quart. 274.—ECONOMICAL STOCK. (Fr.—Bouillon.) Ingredients.—The liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, say 4 quarts ; trimmings of tresh meat or poultry, shank bones, &c., roast- beef bones, any pieces the larder may furnish ; vegetables, spices, and the same seasoning as in the foregoing recipe, No. 273. Mode.—Let all the ingredients simmer gently for 6 hours, taking care to skim carefully at first. Strain it off, and put by for use. Time.—6 hours. Average Cost, 3d. per quart. 275.—GRAVY STOCK. Ingredients.—2 lbs. shin of beef, a few slices of bacon, 4 onions, 3 carrots, 1 leek, 1 head of celery or some celery seed, a bunch of mixed herbs, salt and pepper. Mode.—Put a layer of the onions in a saucepan holding a gallon, over this the bacon, and over that the beef, chopped into small pieces ; then