Stewed Carrots. 743 Mode .—Wash and scrape the carrots, and cut them into rings of about | inch in thickness. Put the butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, lay in the carrots, with salt, nutmeg, parsley, and onion in the above propor- tions. Toss the stewpan over the fire for a few minutes, and when the carrots are well saturated with the butter, pour in the stock, and simmer gently until they are nearly tender. Then put into another stewpan a small piece of butter ; dredge in about a tablespoonful of flour; stir this over the fire, and when of a nice brown colour, add the liquor that the carrots have been boiled in ; let this just boil up, pour it over the carrots in the other stewpan, and let them finish simmering until quite tender. Serve very hot. This vegetable, dressed as above, is a favourite accom- paniment of roast pork, sausages, &c. Time.—About ^ hour. Average Cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to June ; old ones at any time. Constituents of the Carrot.—These are crystallizable and uncrystallizable sugar, a little starch, extractive gluten, albumen, volatile oil, vegetable jelly, or pectin, saline matter, malic acid, and a peculiar crystallizable ruby-red neuter principle, without odour or taste, called carotin. This vegetable jelly, or pectin, ao named from its singular property of gelatinizing, i.« considered by some as another form of gum or mucilage, combined wrth vegetable acid. It exists more or less in all vegetables, and is especially abundant in those roots and fruits from which jellies are prepared. 1555. _a nice way of dressing new carrots. (Fr.—Garottes a la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of small new carrots, butter, parsley, lemon-juice, sugar, pepper, salt, stock. Mode.—Trim the carrots and boil them fifteen minutes in salted water. When done, drain off the water, add a piece of fresh butter, some finely minced parsley, pepper, some powdered sugar and a few drops of lemon- juice, moisten with a little stock quite clear of fat, and serve very hot. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. per bunch. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in April and May. 1556. —STEWED CARROTS. {Fr.—Carottes a la Creme.) Ingredients.—7 or 8 large carrots, 1 teacupful of broth, pepper and salt to taste, £ teacupful of cream, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Scrape the carrots nicely; half-boil, and slice them into a stewpan ; add the broth, pepper and salt, and cream ; simmer till tender, and be careful the carrots are not broken. A few minutes before serving, mix a little flour with about one ounce of butter; thicken the gravy with this ; let it just boil up and serve.