Aunt Polly's Pudding. 809 melt the butter, dredge in the flour and add the sugar and pounded almonds. Beat the mixture well and put it into cups, or very tiny jelly-pots, which should be well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes, or longer should the puff's be large. Turn them out on a dish, the bottom of the puff uppermost, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. ' Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1697.—AUNT MARTHA’S PUDDING. Ingredients.—5 oz. of bread-crumbs, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sugar, 1 lemon, 1 teacupful of milk, £ lb. of raisins, a grating of nutmeg. Mode.—Stir the sugar into the bread-crumbs, and pour the milk boil- ing over them; beat up the eggs, grate "the lemon-peel and press out the juice; add the batter and nutmeg and beat up all together for 15 minutes. Butter a mould and stick it all over with the raisins, stoned, but not halved ; pour in the pudding and boil for 1 £ hour. This quantity will fill a i£ pint mould. Time.—1| hour to boil. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable at any time, but more suitable for a winter pudding. 1698. —AUNT NELLY’S PUDDING. Ingredients.—lb. of flour, £ lb. of treacle £ lb. of suet, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, a few strips of candied lemon-peel, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 eggs Mode.—Chop the suet finely ; mix with it the flour, treacle, lemon-peel, minced, and candied lemon-peel; add the cream, lemon-juice and 2 well- beaten eggs; beat the pudding well, put it into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil from 3^ to 4 hours. Time.—3i to 4 hours. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time, but more suitable for a winter pudding. Treacle or Molasses.—Treacle is the uncrystallisable part of the saccharine juice drained from the Muscovado sugar, and is either naturally so or rendered uncrystallisable through some defeet in the process of boiling. As it contains a large quantity of sweet or saccharine principle and is cheap, it is of great use as an article of domestic economy. Children are especially fond of it; and it is accounted wholesome. It is also useful for making beer, rum and the very dark syrups. 1699. —AUNT POLLY’S PUDDING. Ingredients.—I teacupful of raisins, 1 teacupful of golden syrup, 1 tea- cupful of sponge cake, 1 teacupful of bread-crumbs, 1 teacupful of flour, 2 eggs, i wineglassful of brandy, a pinch of ginger, a few drops of rosewater, a little minced orange-peel.