Seasonable from July to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Apple Charlotte, 9*9 Mode.—Cut a slice of bread the same shape as the bottom of a plain round mould, which has been well buttered, and a few strips the height of the mould and about inch wide; dip the bread in clarified butter (or spread it with cold butter, if not wanted quite so rich); place the round piece at the bottom of the mould, and set the narrow strips up the sides of it, overlapping each other a little, that no juice from the apples may escape, and that they may hold firmly to the mould. Brush the interior over with white of egg (this will assist to make the case firmer); fill it with apple marmalade, made by recipe No. 1931, with the addition of a little sherry, and cover them with a round piece of bread, also brushed over with egg, the same as the bottom; slightly press the bread down, to make it adhere to the other pieces ; put a plate on the top, and bake the charlotte, in a brisk oven, of a light colour. Turn it out on the dish, strew sifted sugar over the top, and pour round it a little melted apricot jam. Time.—40 to 50 minutes. Average Cost, is. 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1963.-AN EASY METHOD OF MAKING AN APPLE CHARLOTTE. (Fr.—Charlotte aux Pommes.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of flour, £ lb. of butter, £ lb. of powdered sugar, i teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 egg, milk, 1 glass of raisin wine, apple marmalade, No. 1931, J pint of cream, 2 dessertspoonfuls of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Make a cake with the flour, butter, sugar and baking-powder; moisten with the egg and sufficient milk to make it the proper consistency, and bake it in a round tin. When cold, scoop out the middle, leaving a good thickness all round the sides, to prevent them breaking ; take some of the scooped-out pieces, which should be trimmed into neat slices; lay them in the cake, and pour over sufficient raisin wine, with the addition of a little brandy, if approved, to soak them well. Have ready some apple marmalade, made by recipe No. 1931; place a layer of this over the soaked cake, then a layer of cake and a layer of apples; whip the cream to a froth, mixing with it the sugar and lemon juice ; pile it on the top of the charlotte, and garnish it with pieces of clear apple jelly. This dish is served cold, but may be eaten hot, by omitting the cream, and merely garnishing the top with bright jelly just before it is sent to table. Time.—I hour to bake the cake. Average Cost, is. 4d. Seasonable from July to March. CHARLOTTE-AUX-POMMES.