Recipes for Invalid Cookery. 1240 fat that may rise to the surface from time to time. The celery should be cut into thin slices before it is added to the meat, and care must be taken not to put in too much of this ingredient, or the dish will not be good. If the water is allowed to boil, the cutlet will be hard. It is better cooked in a jar set in a saucepan of water, as it must then be below boiling point. Time.—2 hours’ very gentle stewing. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 1 person. Seasonable at any time. 2794.—EEL BROTH. Ingredients.—£ lb. of eels, a small bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley; £ onion, 10 peppercorns, 3 pints of water, 2 cloves, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.— After having cleaned and skinned the eel, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with the other ingredients ; simmer gently until the liquid is reduced nearly half, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Strain it through a hair-sieve ; put it by in a cool place, and, when wanted, take off all the fat from the top, warm up as much as is required, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. This is a very nutritious broth, and easy of digestion. Time.—To be simmered until the liquor is reduced to half. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient to make pint of broth. Seasonable from June to March. 2795.—DRINK FOR INVALIDS. Ingredients.—1 pint of new milk, i pint of water, salt to taste, 1 egg. Mode.—Pour the milk and water together, beat up the egg with the salt, and add it, mixing thoroughly. Time.—2 minutes. Average Cost, id. Sufficient to make 1 quart. 2796.—EGG WINE. Ingredients.— 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, 1 glass of sherry, sugar and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Beat the egg, mixing with it a tablespoonful of cold water; make the wine and the rest of the water hot, but not boiling: pour it on the egg, stirring all the time. Add sufficient lump sugar to sweeten the mixture, and a little grated nutmeg; put all into a very clean saucepan, set it on a gentle fire, and stir the contents one way until they thicken, but d0 not allow them to boil. Serve in a glass with sippets of toasted bread