Quality of the Meat. I2g 259. Quality of meat for soup making.—It has been asserted that English cookery is, nationally speaking, far from being the best in the world. More than this: we have been frequently told by brilliant foreign writers, half philosophers, half chefs, that we are the worst cooks on the face of the earth ; and that the proverb which alludes to the divine origin of food, and the precisely opposite origin of its preparers, is peculiarly applicable to us islanders. Not however, to the inhabitants of the whole island ; for, it is stated in a work which treats of culinary operations north of the Tweed, that the broth" of Scotland claims, for excellence and wholesomeness, a very close second place to the bpuillion or common soup of France. " Three hot meals of broth and meat, for about the price of one roasting joint," our Scottish brothers and sisters get, they say ; and we hasten to assent to what we think is now a very well ascertained fact. We are glad to note, however, that soups of vegetables, fish, meat and game, are now constantly found in the homes of the English middle classes, as well as in the mansions of the wealthier and more aristocratic; and we take this to be one evidence, that we are on the right road to an improvement in our system of cookery. One great cause of many of the spoilt dishes and badly-cooked meats which are brought to our tables is, we think, and most will agree with us, a non- acquaintance with “common, every-day things.” Entertaining this view we intend to preface the chapters of this work with a simple scientific resume of in- teresting and important circumstances which relate to the food we have to prepare, and the theory and chemistry of the various culinary operations. Accordingly' this is the proper place to treat of the quality of the flesh of animals, and to describe some of the circumstances which alter it for good or bad. We will therefore, commence with the circumstance of age, and examine how far this affects the quality of the meat. 260. The flesh of animals. — During the period between the birth and maturity of animals, their flesh undergoes very considerable changes. For instance, when the animal is young, the fluids which the tissues of the muscles contain possess a large proportion of what is called albumen and much gelatine. This albumen, which is also the chief component of the white of eggs, possesses the peculiarity of coagulating or hardening at a certain temperature, like the white of a boiled egg, into a soft, white fluid, no longer soluble, or capable of being dissolved in water. As animals grow older, this gelatine gradually de- creases in proportion to the fibrin, and to the other constituents of the flesh. Thus, the reason why veal, lamb and young pork are white when cooked is, that the large quantity of albumen they contain hardens, or becomes coagulated. The chief characteristic of young meat is the large quantity ,'f gelatine it contains in parts that afterwards become hard or bony. The quality of the flesh of animals is considerably influenced by the nature of the food on which it has been fed; for the food supplies the material which produces the flesh. If the food be not suitable and good, the meat cannot be good either ; just as the paper on which these words are printed could not be good, if the rags from which it is made were not of a fine quality. To the experienced in this matter, it is well known that the flesh of animals fed on farinaceous produce, such as corn, pulse, &c., is firm, well-flavoured, and also economical in the cooking; that the flesh of those fed on succulent and pulpy substances, such as roots, pos- sesses these qualities in a somewhat less degree ; whilst the flesh of those whose food contains fixed oil, as linseed, is greasy, high-coloured, and gross in the fat, and, if the food has been used in large quantities, possessed of a rank flavour. 261. Health of animals.—It is indispensable to the good quality of meat that the animal should be perfectly healthy, at the time of its slaughter, However slight the disease in an animal may be, inferioritv in the quality of its. flesh,' as F