1520 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. 3385-TO CLEAN CLOTH. Ingredients.—Dry fullers’-earth moistened with lemon-juice, a small quantity of pulverised pearlash. Mode.—Mix the fullers’ earth and pearlash into balls with sufficient lemon-juice to moisten. Scour the cloth with the balls. 3386.-TO CLEAN CLOTHES FROM GREASE AND OTHER STAINS. (An Excellent Method.) Take one peck of new lime ; pour over it as much water as will leave about two gallons of clear liquid after it has been well stirred and has settled. In about two hours pour off the clear liquid into another vessel; then add to it 6 oz. of pearlash; stir it well, and when settled bottle it for use. With this liquid wash the clothes, using a coarse piece of sponge for the purpose. If the clothes are of very fine fabric and delicate colour, the liquid must be diluted with clear, soft water. 3387-TO TAKE OUT SPOTS AND STAINS FROM DRESSES. To remove grease-spots from cotton or woollen materials, absoroent pastes, purified bullock’s blood, and even common soap, are used, applied to the spot when dry. When the colours are not fast, use fullers’-earth or pulverised potter’s clay, laid in a layer over the spot, and press it with a very hot iron. For silks, moires, and plain or brocaded satins, begin by pouring over the spot two drops of rectified spirits of wine; cover it over with a linen cloth, and press it with a hot iron, changing the linen instantly. The spot will look tarnished, for a portion of the grease still remains ; this will be removed entirely by a little sulphuric ether dropped on the spot, and a very little rubbing. If neatly done, no perceptible mark or circle will remain ; nor will the lustre of the richest silk be changed, the union of the two liquids operating with no injurious effects from rubbing. Eau de METHOD OF WASHING LACE. ° .. Cologne will also remove grease irom cloth and silk. Fruit-spots are removed from white and fast-coloured cottons by the use of chloride of soda. Commence by cold-soaping the article, then touch the spot with a hair-pencil or feather dipped in the chloride, dipping it immediately into cold water, to prevent the texture of the article being injured. Ink-spots are removed, when fresh applied to the spot, by a few