Cod with Bechamel Sauce. 217 butter into a stewpan, stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour to thicken, add the stock gradually and the chopped shalot; boil for 5 minutes. Pour to it the milk or cream. Simmer for 10 minutes, add the cayenne and sugar, and the chopped parsley, and, when liked, a little lemon-juice. Put the fish in the sauce to warm gradually, but do not let it boil. Serve in a dish garnished with sippets of fried bread. Time.—Rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, with cream, is. 6d. Seasonable trom November to March. Sufficient for 3 persons. Note.—The remains of fish from the preceding day answer very well for this dish. 445.—COD WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE. (Fn-Cabillaud a la Bechamel.) Irigrediehts.-^Any remains of cold cod, 4 tablespoonfuls of bechamel (see Sauces), 2 oz. of butter; seasoning to taste of pepper and salt; fried bread, a few bread crumbs baked a light brown in the oven. Mode.—Flake the cod carefully, leaving out all skin and bone ; put the bechamel in a stewpan with the butter, and stir it over the fire till the latter is melted ; add seasoning, put in the fish, and mix it well with the sauce. Make a border of fried bread round the dish, lay in the fish, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, and baste with butter. Brown either before the fire or with a salamander, and garnish with toasted bread cut in fanciful shapes. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the fish, 4d. The Habitat of the Cod.—This fish is found only in the seas of the northern parts of the world, between the latitudes of 450 and 66°. Its great rendezvous are the sandbanks of Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Cape Breton and New England. These places are its favourite resorts ; for there it is able to obtain great quantities of worms, a food peculiarly grateful to it. Another cause of its attachment to these places has been said to be on account of the vicinity to the Polar Seas, where it returns to spawn. Few are taken north of Iceland, and the shoals never reach so tar south as the Straits of Gibraltar. Many are taken on the coasts of Norway, in the Baltic, and off the Orkneys, which, prior to the discovery of Newfoundland, formed one of the principal fisheries. The London market is supplied by those taken between the Dogger Bank, the Well bank, and Cromer, on the east coast of England. 446.—COD WITH MAITRE D’HOTEL BUTTER. (Fr —Cabillaud a la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—2 slices of cod, J lb. of butter, a little chopped shalot and parsley; pepper to taste, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, or rather less when the flavour is not liked ; the juice of £ lemon. Mode.—Boil the cod, and either leave it whole, or, what is still better, flake it from the bone, and take off the skin. Put it into a stewpan with the butter, parsley, shalot, pepper and nutmeg. Melt the butter gradu- ally, and be very careful that it does not become like oil. When all is well mixed and thoroughly hot, add the lemon-juice and serve.