868 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. cups, rather more than half fill them ; bake from 20 minutes to half an hour, according to the size of the puddings, and serve with fruit, custard, or wine sauce, a little of which may be poured over them. Time.—20 minutes to $ hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 6 puddings. Seasonable at any time. 1848.-BAKED RAISIN PUDDING. {Plain and Economical.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, £ lb. of stoned raisins, £ lb. of suet. a pinch of salt, 1 oz. of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely ; stone the raisins and cut them in halves; mix these with the suet, add the salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg, and moisten the whole with sufficient milk to make it of the consistency of thick batter. Put the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for if hour, or rather longer. Turn it out of the dish, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. This is a very plain recipe, and suitable where there is a family of children. It, of course, can be much improved by the addition of candied-peel, currants, and rather a large proportion of suet: a few eggs would also make the pudding richer. Time.—1£ hour. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. Introduction of Sugar.—Sugar was first known as a drug, and used by the apothecaries, and with them was a most important article. At its first appearance, some said it was heating: others, that it injured the chest; others, that it disposed persons to apoplexy: the truth, how- ever, soon conquered these fancies, and the use of sugar has increased every day, and there is no household in the Givilized world which can do without it. 1849.-BOILED RAISIN PUDDING. {Plain and Economical.) Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, I- lb. of stoned raisins, £ lb. of chopped suet, £ saltspoonful of salt, milk. Mode.—After having stoned the raisins and chopped the suet finely, mix them with the flour, add the salt, and when these dry ingredients are thoroughly mixed, moisten the pudding with sufficient milk to make it into rather a stiff paste. Tie it up in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for 4 hours ; serve with sifted sugar. This pudding may also be made in a long shape, the same as a rolled jam-pudding, and will then not require so long boding; 2| hours would then be quite sufficient.