Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. 924 butter, which should be beaten to a cream; stir in the sugar and flour, and when these ingredients are well mixed, add the milk ; keep stirring and beating the mixture for a few minutes ; put it on buttered plates, and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sifted sugar, or pile the pancakes high on a dish, with a layer of preserve or marmalade between each. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1974.—DUTCH FLUMMERY. Ingredients.—1 oz. of gelatine, the rind and juice of x lemon, 1 pint of water, 4 eggs, 1 pint of sherry, madeira, or raisin wine; sifted sugar to taste. Mode.— Put the water, gelatine, and lemon rind into a lined saucepan, and simmer gently until the gelatine is dissolved; strain this into a basin, stir in the eggs, which should be well beaten, the lemon juice, which should be strained, and the wine ; sweeten to taste with pounded sugar, mix all well together, pour it into a jug, set this jug in a saucepan ot boiling water over the fire, and keep stirring it one way until it thickens; but take care that it does not boil. Strain it into a mould that has been oiled or laid in water for a short time, and put it in a cool place to set in. A tablespoonful of brandy stirred in just before it is poured into the mould, improves the flavour of this dish; it is better if made the day before it is required for table. Time.—£ hour to simmer the gelatine ; about \ hour to stir the mixture over the fire. Average Cost, 2s. 3d., if made with sherry ; less with raisin wine. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. Pale Sherries are made from the same grapes as brown. The latter are coloured by an ad- dition of some cheap must, or wine which has been boiled till it has acquired a deep-brown tint. Pale sherries were, some time ago, preferred in England, being supposed most pure, but the brown are liked by many people. The inferior sherries exported to England are often mixed with a cheap and light wine called Moguer, and are strengthened in the making by brandy ; but too frequently they are adulterated by the London dealers. 1975-CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. (Fr.—Souffle au Chocolat.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 3 oz. of the best chocolate. Mode.—Break the eggs, separating the whites from the yolks, and put them into different basins; add to the yolks the sugar, flour and choco- late, which should be very finely grated, and stir these ingredients for 5