to Preserve Strawberries. lozl 2212.—TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES WHOLE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow lb. of good loaf sugar, i pint of red-currant-juice. Mode.—Choose the strawberries not too ripe, of a fine large sort and of a good colour. Pick off the stalks, lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded. Shake the dish gently, that the sugar may be equally distributed and touch the under-side of the fruit, and let it remain for i day. Then have ready the currant-juice, drawn as for red-currant jelly No. 2143 ; boil it with the remainder of the sugar until it forms a thin syrup, and in this simmer the strawberries and sugar, until the whole is sufficiently jellied. Great care must be taken not to stir the fruit roughly, as it should be preserved as whole as possible. Strawberries prepared in this manner are very good served in glasses and mixed with thin cream. Time.—i hour to 20 minutes to simmer the strawberries in the syrup. Seasonable in June and July. 2213.—TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow the same amount of double refined loaf sugar. Mode.—Select fine large strawberries, and strip them of stalks, &c. Weigh the strawberries, and allow to each pound 1 lb. of the best double- refined loaf sugar, finely powdered. Divide the sugar into two equal por- tions. Put a layer of strawberries into the bottom of a preserving-pan, and cover them with a layer of sugar, then a layer of strawberries, then a layer of sugar, until half the sugar is in. Next set tho pan over a moderate fire, and let it boil slowly till all the sugar is melted. Then put in, gradually, the remainder of the sugar, and, after it is all in, let it boil hard for 5 minutes, taking off the scum with a thin wooden spoon ; there will be little scum if the sugar be of the very best quality. Afterwards remove the pan from the fire and take out the straw- berries very carefully in a spoon. Spread out the fruit on large, flat dishes, so as not to touch each other, and set them immediately in a cold place, or on ice. Hang the pan again on the fire, and give the syrup one boil up, skimming it if necessary. Place a fine strainer over the top of a basin, and pour the syrup through it. Then put the strawberries into glass jars or tumblers ; pour into each an equal portion of the syrup. Lay at the top a piece of white paper dipped in brandy. Seal the jars tightly. Raspberries may be preserved in the same way. Also large, ripe goose- berries. To each lb. of gooseberries allow lb. of sugar. Time.—20 minutes. Seasonable in June and July