VARIOUS MODES OF COOKING MEAT. CHAPTER XI. GENERAL REMARKS. 808. The Probability is that the Human Race, for along period, lived wholly on fruits. Man’s means of attacking animals, even if he had the desire of slaughtering them, were very limited until he acquired the use of arms. He, however, eventually made weapons for himself, and made prey of the animals that surrounded him. It is possible that man might subsist on vegetables; but their preparation needs the knowledge of art, only to be obtained after the lapse of many centuries. Man’s first weapons were, perhaps, stones flung from the hand, perhaps the branches of trees ; all this is little more than conjecture. Bows and arrows have been found with the natives of all climates and latitudes, but the invention and use of these indicates an advancement of civilisation only to be reached in the slow progress of centuries. Some kind of rude sling for stones is found in very early ages. It seems singular at first, how this idea presented itself to individuals so differently placed; but examined, the notion is natural enough to all. The primeval period may be divided into four epochs. First the palaeolithic, or first stone age ; secondly, the neolithic, or second stone age ; thirdly, the bronze age; and lastly, the iron age. The antiquities of the first stone age, which consist entirely of implements of unpolished stone, bone and horn, though very old historically—far older than Egyptian or Assyrian remains —belongs to a recent period in geology, being usually found in beds of river drift or gravel. The men of this period were ignorant of pottery and metals, they pos- sessed no domestic animals, and did not cultivate the soil. The climate of Europe was much colder than at present, but the rivers ran in the same beds and drained the same areas as they do now. The second stone age possesses marked peculiarities of its own: polished stone implements made their appearance, domestic animals were used, and cooking their flesh began. 809. Brillat Savarin says that raw flesh has but one inconvenience— from its viscousness it attaches itself to the teeth. He goes on to say that it is not, however, disagreeable; but, when seasoned with salt, that it is easily digested. He tells a story of a Croat captain whom he invited to dinner in 1815, during the occupation of Paris by the allied troops. This officer was amazed at his host’s preparations, and said : “ When we are campaigning, and get hungry, we knock over the first animal we find, cut off a steak, powder it with salt, which we always have in the sabretasche, put it under the saddle, gallop over it for half a mile, and then dine like princes.” Again, of the hunts- men of Dauphiny it is said, that when they are out shooting in September, they take with them both pepper and salt. If they kill a very fat bird, they pluck