ioo6 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. COMPOTE OF ORANGES. 12 oranges allow 1 pint of water. and divide them into small pieces without breaking the thin skin with which they are surrounded. Make the syrup by recipe No. 2115, adding the rind of the orange cut into thin narrow strips. When the syrup has been well-skimmed, and is quite clear, put in the pieces of orange, and simmer them for 5 minutes. Take them out carefully with a spoon without breaking them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly until thick ; let it cool a little, pour it over the oranges, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. Time.—10 minutes to boil the syrup ; 5 minutes to simmer the oranges ; 5 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from November to May. The Orange In Portugal.—The orange, known under the name of “ Portugal Orange,” came originally from China. Not more than two centuries ago, the Portuguese brought thence the first scion, which has multiplied so prodigiously that we now see entire forests of orange-trees in Portugal. 2176. —ORANGE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fine loaf sugar and Seville oranges; to Mode.—Let there be an equal weight of loaf sugar and Seville oranges, and allow the above proportion of water to every dozen oranges. Peel them carefully, remove a little of the white pith, and boil the rinds in water 2 hours, changing the water three times to take off a little of the bitter taste. Break the pulp into small pieces, take out all the pips, and cut the boiled rind into chips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water ; boil this well, skim it, and when clear, put in the pulp and chips. Boil all together from 20 minutes to £ an hour ; pour it into pots, and, when cold, cover down with bladders or tissue paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. The juice and grated rind of 2 lemons to every dozen of oranges, added with the pulp and chips to the syrup, are a very great improvement to this marmalade. Time.—2 hours to boil the orange rinds ; 10 minutes to boil the syrup ; 20 minutes to £ hour to boil the marmalade. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—This should be made in March or April, as Seville oranges are then in perfection. 2177. —ORANGE MARMALADE. {Another Mode.) ingredients.—Equal weight of Seville oranges and sugar ; to every lb. of sugar allow % pint of water.