50 A rrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. ranging from £1 175. 6d., for the smallest size, to /50, for a range 6 feet 8 inches wide, with circulating or bath boiler attached. The ranges are numbered from 2 to 16, and thus it may be said that there are sixteen sizes, including No. 4a. For the most part each range is supplied with a close or open fire as may be preferred. For family use Range No. 9 presents a convenient size, the range it- self being 42 inches wide, 28 inches high, and 22J inches deep, the oven being 18 inches wide, 15 inches high, and 18 inches deep. The price, complete with boiler to hold g gallons, is £9 15s. ; but with a boiler to supply bath, £12 155. A plate-rack, same size as the range, is supplied with the range for 185. extra. Every size is portable, requires no brick setting whatever, and uis- a single smoke pipe which can be carried into any chimney. It is claimed for these ranges that they cannot get out of order, that they have larger sized boilers, and are of greater weight and durability than any hitherto manufactured. Fire-bricks are not used in the fire-box. (3.) Roasting.—This operation is carried out in the "Wilson” range in a manner in every respect equal to roasting done in front of an open fire. A perfect system of ventilation is kept up, whereby the vitiated air is carried from the oven into the flue at the back, also preventing any unpleasant smell in the kitchen. (4.) Grilling.—Chops, steaks, beef bones, legs of fowls, turkeys, &c., can be grilled over the top of the range by removing the top centre cover, and insert- ing a circular grill manufactured and supplied by the company. (5.) Baking.—Bread and pastry can be baked in the same oven that is used for baking or roasting meat by shutting the ventilation on the oven door. By this, and by the action of heat accumulators in the shape of gills, or flanges placed under the bottom of the oven, which attract and intercept the heated vapours prior to their leaving the range, great bottom heat is produced, without which no bread or pastry can be properly baked. (6.) Toasting.—Bread can be nicely toasted on the top of the range by a simple toast grill supplied by the company, whereby three or four slices can be done at one time. (7.) Ironing.—This operation can be conveniently carried out at any time, as the entire top surface of the range always constitutes a hot plate as long as the fire is kept alight, whereon irons can be readily heated and kept perfectly clean. ( 8.) Water Heating.—It is claimed that this can be effected more quickly in the " Wilson ” than in any other range. By a patented principle a great part of the heat impinges on the side of the boiler near the bottom, and travels under the whole base on its way to the flue. The boilers are made of copper, and thus there is no danger of cracking or bursting. (9.) Bath Warming, Steaming, &°c.—These operations can be carried out on the ranges of 3 feet in width and upwards, that is to say in all ranges from and including No. 7, by the introduction of a strong wrought iron, lap-welded high- pressure boiler. The heat is concentrated on the sides and under the boiler, travelling up the back, under the top plate of the range and round the ovens, thus reversing the old-fashioned system, which allowed 75 per cent of the heat to be wasted up the chimney. 88. Constantine’s Patent “ Treasure ” Ranges.—These ranges, like the " Wilson " ranges, are perhaps more truly described by the term kitchener. They differ from them in points of construction, and in being raised above the level of the hearth on short massive legs, one at each corner of the range ; where- as the " Wilson” ranges rest wholly on the hearth. They are supplied as close,