iioo Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. all are done, pile them on a hot dish, and send them quickly to table. Muffins and crumpets should always be served on separate dishes, and both toasted and served as expeditiously as possible. Time.—From io to 15 minutes to bake them. * Average Cost, id. each. Sufficient.—Allow 2 crumpets to each person. Seasonable in winter. 2424.—PLAIN BUNS. Ingredients.—To every 2 lbs. of flour allow 6 oz. of moist sugar, ^ gill of yeast, i pint of milk, £ lb. of butter, warm milk. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin, mix the sugar well with it, make a hole in the centre, and stir in the yeast and milk (which should be luke- warm), with enough of the flour to make it the thickness oi cream. Cover the basin over with a cloth, and let the sponge rise in a warm place, which will be accomplished in about hour. Melt the butter, but do not allow it to oil; stir it into the other ingredients, with enough warm milk to make the whole into a soft dough ; then mould it into buns about the size of an egg ; lay them in rows quite 3 inches apart; set them again in a warm place, until they have risen to double their size; then put them into a good brisk oven, and just before they are done, wash them over with a little milk. From 15 to 20 minutes will be required to bake them nicely. These buns may be varied by adding a few currants, candied peel or caraway seeds to the other ingredients ; and the above mixture answers for hot cross buns, by putting in a little ground allspice ; and by pressing a tin mould in the form of a cross in the centre of the bun. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, id. each. Sufficient to make 18 buns. PLAIN BUNS. 2425.-HOT CROSS BUNS. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, i lb. of sugar, i wineglassful of yeast, f pint of warmed milk, £ lb. of butter, 1 lb. of currants, £ teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spice. Mode.—Mix the flour and sugar, spice and currants ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a glassful of thick yeast and half a pint of warmed milk; make a thin batter of the surrounding flour and milk, and set the pan covered before the fire till the leaven begins to ferment. Put to the mass half a pound of melted butter and enough milk to make a soft paste of all the flour ; cover this with a dust of flour, and let it once more.rise for half an hour. Shape ttws dough into buns and lay them