Irish Stew. 497 slices. Put these in a stewpan, with all the ingredients except the peas, and let these simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour, keeping them well stirred. Boil the peas separately, mix these with the mutton, and serve very hot. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, is. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable fom the end of May to August. 1091. —IRISH STEW. (Fr.—Mouton a I’lrlandaise.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of the loin or neck of mutton, 5 lbs. of potatoes, 5 large onions, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than 1 pint of water. Mode.—Trim off some of the fat of the above quantity of loin or neck of mutton, and cut it into chops of a moderate thickness. Pare and halve the potatoes, and cut the onions into thick slices. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, then a layer of mutton and onions, and season with pepper and salt; proceed in this manner until the stewpan is full, taking care to have plenty of vegetables at the top. Pour ix the water, and let it stew very gently for 2^ hours, keeping the lid of the stewpan closely shut the whole time, and occasionally shaking the preparation to prevent its burning. Time.—2\ hours. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s. id. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. 1092. —IRISH STEW. (Fr.—Mouton a I’lrlandaise.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of the breast of mutton, i| pint of water, salt and pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of potatoes, 4 large onions. Mode.—Put the mutton into a stewpan with the water and a little salt, and let it stew gently for an hour; cut the meat into, small pieces, skim the fat from the gravy, and pare and slice the potatoes and onions. Put all the ingredients into the stewpan in layers, first a layer of vege- tables, then one of meat, and sprinkle seasoning of pepper and salt be- tween each layer; cover closely, and let the whole stew very gently for one hour or rather more, shaking it frequently, to prevent its burning. Time.—Rather more than two hours. Average Cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. Note.—Irish stew may be prepared in the same manner as above, but baked in a jar, instead of boiled. About 2 hours, or rather more, in a moderate oven, will be sufficient time to bake it.