Puff-Paste Rings. 895 Time.—J hour or 20 minutes. Average Cost, with £ lb. of puff-paste, is. Sufficient for 2 dishes of pastry. Seasonable at any time. Note.—It should be borne in mind that, for all dishes of small pastry, such as the preceding, trimmings of puff-paste left from larger tarts answer as well as making the paste expressly. 1913.—OPEN TART OF STRAWBERRY OR ANY OTHER KIND OF PRESERVE. (Fn—Flan de Fraises.) Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any kind of jam. Mode.—Butter a tart-pan of the shape shown in the engraving, roll out the paste to the thickness of half an inch, and line the pan with it; prick a few holes at the bottom with a fork, and bake the tart in a brisk oven from io to 15 minutes. Let the paste cool a little; then fill it with OPEN TART. OPEN TART MOULT. preserve, place a few stars or leaves on it, which have been previously cut out of the paste and baked, and the tart is ready for table. By making it in this manner, both the flavour and colour of the jam are preserved, which would otherwise be lost, were it baked in the oven on the paste ; and, besides, so much jam is not required. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient.—1 tart for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Strawberry.—The name of this favourite fruit is said to be derived from an ancient custom of putting straw beneath the fruit when it began to ripen, which is very useful to keep it moist and clean. The strawberry belongs to temperate and rather cold climates; and no fruit of these latitudes, that ripens without the aid of artificial heat, is at all comparable with it in point of flavour. The strawberry is widely diffused, being found in most parts of the world, and particularly in Europe and America. I9I4-—PUFF-PASTE RINGS. (Fr.—Puits d’Amour.) Ingredients.—Puff-paste, No. 1677, the white of an egg, sifted loaf sugar. Mode.—Make some good puff-paste by recipe No. 1677 ; roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and, with a round fluted paste- cutter, stamp out as many pieces as may be required ; then work the