931 Italian Cream. 1991—QUICKLY-MADE TRIFLE. Ingredients.—6 sponge-cakes, a few ratafias, the whites of 3 eggs, a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, some apricot or any other jam, 2 glasses of sherry, 1 of brand}'. Mode.—Slice the cakes, spread them with jam, lay them in a glass dish, put over the ratafias, and pour over all the wine and brandy; while they are soaking, whip the eggs to a froth with the sugar, and put lightly on the top, with any garnish that may be at hand. Time.—£ of an hour. Average Cost, is. 9d. Seasonable at any time. 1992.—ITALIAN CREAM. (Fr.—Creme a I’ltalienne.) Ingredients.—^ pint of milk, £ pint of cream, sugar to taste, 1 oz. of gelatine or isinglass, 1 lemon, the yolks of 4 eggs. Mode.—Put the cream and milk into a saucepan, with sugar to sweeten, and the lemon-rind. Boil until the milk is well flavoured, then strain it into a basin, and add the beaten yolks of eggs. Put this mixture into a jug ; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and stir the contents until they thicken, but do not allow them to boil. Take the cream off the fire, stir in the lemon juice and gelatine, which should be melted, and whip well; fill a mould, place it in ice, if at hand, and, when set, turn it out on a dish, and garnish as taste may dictate. The mixture may be whipped and drained, and then put into small glasses, when this mode of serving is preferred. Time.—From 5 to 8 minutes to stir the mixture in the jug. Average Cost, with isinglass, 2s. ?d.; with gelatine, is. 5^. Sufficient to fill pint mould. Seasonable at any time. 1993.—MY TRIFLE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of macaroons, £ lb. of ratafias, 26 Savoy biscuits, £ pot of raspberry jam, 1 pint of custard, No. 1969, whites of eggs, 1^ oz. of pounded sugar, ^ pint of sherry, 6 sponge-cakes, 1 oz. of almonds. Mode.—Spread the raspberry jam on 13 of the biscuits and press the other 13 closely over them ; line a large round glass dish with them, and pour over the sherry; let them soak 2 hours ; arrange the ratafias and macaroons over them, and the sponge-takes, thickly stuck with blanched and sliced almonds on the top ; pour the custard over, and add a whip made of the whites of the eggs and the sugar, and serve cold. Time.—2 hours to soak. Average Cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for centre dish at supper. Seasonable at any time.