Provisions in Italy. *297 favourite uecoration. Italian dining-rooms are generally highly decorated, the paintings on the walls frequently being copies of old representations found upon the walls of Pompeii. Very little carving is done at table. Joints and birds are often cut up and then put together, so as to present the appearance of being entire. 2947. A great deal of fruit is consumed with light wines at dessert. Then follows caffe nero, and as a rule no other meal is partaken of during the evening, unless, indeed, occasionally a biscotto with wine, though in recent years a cup of tea has been introduced in Italy as it had previously been in France and Germany. Italians go to rest early. Perhaps one cause for this may be the early twilight that sets in, at least in the southern portion of Italy. The land of the olive and the grape is far-famed for the variety and multiplicity of its produce. No country is richer in grain, fruit, poultry, meat and game of every description. Besides all this, its lakes and rivers abound in fish of every species, and many are the shiploads, frequently alive, exported to other shores. Every lake, with the exception of Lake Garda, contains perch, which is much esteemed. On the South Coast peculiar kinds of shell-fish abound; these are called frutti de mare—sea fruits—and it is deemed a luxury to eat them raw, as we do oysters. 2948. Game is to be had of the best. At the tables of the wealthy, a wild boar's head, decorated in the most artistic style, is much affected. Kid, as in France, is very popular. It is dressed like lamb, in every imaginable fashion, roasted, made into ragouts, hashed, the brains, sweetbread and tongue all constituting delicate and savoury dishes, and even the ears are stuffed and served up with some appetising sauce. The dainty chamois is brought down without scruple by the ardent cacciatore, and its delicate joints find a frequent place at dinner parties and suppers. Hare and leveret are prepared in every conceivable manner. As regards birds, none are wanting to satisfy the palate of the gourmet. Pheasant, partridge, woodcock, snipe, plover, ortolan, wild pigeon, teal, and other specimens range far and wide. Small birds are a great weakness, and innumerable quantities of them are to be found everywhere, even the thrush and the robin red-breast help to supplement an Italian dinner or collazione. When one meets with a ragout of the gizzards of these tiny creatures, or with lark cutlets, exceptional of course, one cannot but recur in imagination to the time when Vitellius feasted with delight upon the tongues of nightingales, and had set before him at a single repast 7,000 birds of different kinds. No wonder that the cost of his table alone, during his short reign of eight months, amounted to £7,200,000! 2949. As in the olden time oil is now very generally used in the preparation of food, taking, to a great extent, the place of butter in English cookery, and it certainly materially alters the flavour of many dishes. Of course in the best houses the purest olive oil only is requisitioned. For frying it is more economical than butter, and is considered to be both nutritious and digestible. Though butter is frequently used, anyone who has inhabited the country will prefer the delicious fish, fritters, cutlets and other meats prepared with oil. Mushrooms are a great feature in Italian seasoning. They crop out in almost everything in the way of a stew or ragout. When fresh they are truly delicious, but when conserved in oil, in which they have, perhaps, been kept too long, they impart a greasiness anything but appetising. 2950. The soups in Italy are endless in their variety, and prepared as