7 °7 White Soup. 1457.-HOTCH POTCH., Ingredients.—3 oz. of pearl barley, x small cabbage, 2 carrots, x turnip, 2 onions, parsley and herbs, 2 0z. of butter, salt and pepper, . 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Put the barley on the fire with the cold water. Scrape or grate one of the carrots, and put it aside in a little water. Chop all the rest of the vegetables very small, and when the water boils put them in with the buttei', salt and pepper. There should be enough vegetable to make it rather thick. Boil it all for 2 hours, then put in the scraped carrots and boil another half hour. Note.—Any other vegetable may be used. These are the most common: lettuce, green peas, when they are rather old, and celery are all suitable. 1 1458.-WHITE SOUP. Ingredients.—Onions, turnips, potatoes, celery, parsnips, artichokes, &c., 2 lbs.; 3 pints of water, £ pint of milk, 1 dessertspoonful of flour or cornflour, 1 oz. of butter, salt. Mode.—Cut 2 lbs. weight of any white vegetables or of several sorts mixed (which is better) into pieces, and boil them until soft in the water with salt and butter. Rub them through a sieve or colander, put them back in the saucepan with the milk, and let it boil. Put in the flour the last thing, mixed smooth with a little cold water or milk. Let it boil once, and serve with dice of fried bread. 1459—POTATO SOUP. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of potatoes, 1 leek, 1 stick of celery, £ pint of cream, 1 pint of milk, 1 quart of water, 2 oz. of buttei', salt, pepper, 2 0z. of sago or tapioca. 1 Mode.—Cut up the vegetables, using only the white part of the leek, and put them in a saucepan with the butter. Let them cook for about 10 minutes, but not take colour; then add the milk and water, and boil about three quarters of an hour, or till it is soft enough to rub through a fine sieve. Boil it again, adding more milk if necessary, and let the sago simmer till it is transparent. Add the cream the last thing, and do not let it boil again. Serve with fried bread. Note.—Do not make it in an iron saucepan, or it will be a bad colour. 1460.—COUNT RUMFORD’S SOUP. Ingredients.—£ lb. of Scotch barley, 3 oz. of split peas, 12 oz. of potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 quarts of water, % lb. of bread or bread-crusts, salt, sweet herbs,