580 General Observations on Birds, fowls, as the fat wastes in roasting and is seldom or never eaten. Fowls should be fattened on corn or meal. The flesh is flabby and ill-flavoured if it is fed on house scraps or green food. Wild fowl may often be bought very cheap, and if they have fed inland are well flavoured; but if the purchaser has no means of ascertaining where they come from, she will probably find them so strong and fishy as not to be cheap at any price. The birds that fly far and fast have their muscles too much developed to be very good for food. In the case of migratory birds they are best just before they take their flight. 1266.—To Keep Poultry.—There is much variety of taste and of fashion in the time that birds are allowed to hang. Poultry is eaten fresh. Pigeons can scarcely be too fresh. Ducks and geese, and indeed all birds will keep in a good larder for several days, and if they are not plucked and cooked while yet warm, before rigor mortis has set in, they should be hung until it has passed off, but should never be in the least “ high ” or “ gamey.” If there is any doubt about freshness the bird should be roasted and not boiled. In cold weather it may be safely kept several days, and it should be hung up in a cool and airy place, not laid on a plate or board. Birds are generally plucked and drawn, and often trussed by-the poulterer. If they must be kept they should be untrussed, wiped dry, and hung up by the legs. It is a better plan to keep them in their feathers until they are wanted for cooking. The feet should be limp and pliable. Stiff, dry feet belong to a stale bird. The eyes should not be sunken. If the bird is plucked, there should be no discoloura- tion of the skin, and no odour. The back generally discolours before the breast. The best thing to do with a bird that is too high is to wash it in permanganate of potash and water. If it is drawn, powdered charcoal can be put inside, and washed out before it is cooked. An old fowl will keep longer than a young one. Guinea fowls are so often used as a substitute for game in the spring and summer months that we hardly know whether they should go into this chapter or the next. They are hung and cooked like pheasants, which they nearly resemble. As a matter of convenience, rabbits are considered as poultry. They are chosen by their large knee-joints and soft, brown fur: an old rabbit’s hair goes gray. They are often sold s kinned in town markets, and then the freshness is known by the moist and bluish look of the flesh. Tame rabbits are sent to this country from Belgium, where they are fattened by the peasant farmers. They are often of immense size, and the flesh is white and delicate, but they have not the flavour of the wild rabbit. Turkeys of very large size are likely to be last year's birds. The care and ingenuity of the breeder is devoted to getting the largest year-old bird. Many are imported. Many more are reared in the Eastern Counties and the fen districts. They are all hatched out in early spring, and, therefore, at Christmas are either one year old birds or two years old. Swans, peacocks, and herons have all been common food in England, and are even now occasionally eaten, as much as a matter of curiosity as for any other reasons. Swans are fattened in Norfolk, and come into season, about November, but they are costly, and not common. Pea-hen is much like guinea- fowl. Herons more nearly resemble wild fowl. The flesh of poultry is not marbled with fat like the flesh of beasts. The fat is accumulated in the body. Owing to this, birds are more easily digested and are always valuable in the sick room. As a rule, the smaller the bird the more delicate the flesh. In some birds the flesh is white, and in some dark-coloured. It also varies in different parts of the same bird, the wings and breast being whiter, drier, less full-flavoured, but more delicate. Ducks and geese are more oily, and harder of digestion