Advice, to Cooks and Kitchen-maids. 98 195. Cleanliness.—A dirty kitchen is a disgrace both to mistress and maid, and cleanliness is a most essential ingredient in the art of cooking. It takes no longer to have a clean and orderly kitchen than an untidy and dirty one, for the time that is spent in keeping it in good order is saved when cooking operations are going on and everything is clean and in its place. Cleanliness in person is most essential, and particularly with regard to the bands, and constant washing only and thoroughly drying of them will prevent them getting coarse and chapped. 196. Dress.—When at your work dress suitably; wear short plain gowns, well-fitting boots, and large aprons with bibs, of which every cook and kitchen- maid should have a good supply, and you will be comfortable as you never can be with long dresses, small aprons, and slipshod shoes, the latter being most trying in a warm kitchen, which may very likely have a stone floor. Servants’ working dress, with its neat and becoming cap, is anything but an ugly one, and no other is suitable or economical for them while doing their work ; and let them remember that as they allow it is no disgrace to be a servant, it cannot be one to dress as such. 197. Neatness.—This may be said to come next to cleanliness, and where there is a great deal to be done it is an absolute necessity. Clear as you go; that is to say, do not let a host of basins, spoons, plates, etc., accumulate on the dresser or tables while you are preparing the dinner. By a little management and forethought much confusion may be saved in this way. It is as easy to put a thing in its place when it is done with as to keep continually removing it to find room for fresh requisites. For instance, after making a Eudding, the flour tub, paste-board, and rolling-pin should be put away, and any asins, spoons, etc., taken to the scullery, neatly packed up near the sink, to be washed when the proper time arrives. 198. Economy.—Never waste or throw away anything that can be turned to account. In warm weather any gravies or soups that have been left from the preceding day should be just boiled-up and poured into clean pans. This is particularly necessary where vegetables have been added to the preparation, as it then so soon turns sour. In cooler weather every other day will be enough <to warm up such things. Go to your larder early every morning (which, like the kitchen, ought to be kept perfectly clean and ueat), and while changing plates, looking to your bread pan (which should always be emptied and wiped out every morning), take notice if there is anything not likely to keep, and acquaint your mistress with the fact, It is better if there is a spare cupboard in the kitchen to keep any baked pastry there, as it preserves its crispness. 199. Kitchen supplies.—Do not let your stock of pepper, salt, spices, seasonings, etc., dwindle so low that there is danger, in the midst of preparing dinner, that you find yourself minus some very important ingredient, thereby causing much confusion and annoyance. Think of all you require while your mistress is with you in the morning, that she may give out any necessary stores. If you live in the country have your vegetables gathered from the garden at an early hour, so that there is ample time to get rid of caterpillars, etc., which is an easy task if the cabbages, etc., are allowed to soak in salt and water an hour or two. 200. Punctuality.—7 his is an indispensable quality in a cook; therefore, if the kitchen be not provided with a clock ask your mistress to let you have one. When there is a large dinner to prepare get all you can done the day before or early on the morning of the day, which will save a great deal of time, and enable