CHAPTER XLV. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON INVALID COOKERY. 2759. Diet of the Sick.— It is not possible to lay down any laws upon the dieting of sick persons that will apply in all cases. For, given any two persons suffering from disease, the chances are that the temperament, the disease, and the hope for recovery of the one will be diametrically opposed to those of the other. One may be in the acute stage of an illness; the other may be a chronic patient. One may be convalescing after fever; the other suffering from a lifetime of over- feeding and underwork. And so on ad infinitum. It is evident that to feed all these people alike would be ridiculous. Whatever cured some must kill the rest. There are, besides, many persons hopelessly ill, for whom food and physic can do no more than keep them alive with the least possible discomfort. One can only make the food pleasant to the eye and taste, and easily digestible, remember- ing always that in the course of any long illness the human machine is so worn that the least extra strain may stop its working altogether. It is with such cases as these that the art of sick-room cookery is of most avail. Roughly speaking, the whole idea of sick-room diet is (i) to choose what- ever food will give least work to that part of the digestive canal that is least able to bear it; (2) to compensate for any waste or drain upon the system. If the doctor does not know more about the condition of the digestive apparatus than unskilled and untrained persons he cannot know much, and some further medical advice would be desirable. If he does know his business, he ought to be trusted and obeyed. Untrained persons often have a superstitious faith in the cravings of the sick, and will disobey the doctor to gratify the patient. But it is well known that even in health people crave for and obtain things to eat and drink that do them harm. Why should a diseased appetite be more dependable than a healthy one ? In some cases (notably after fever) the patient developes a surprising appetite, which, in the state of his digestive organs, it would be dangerous to gratify. Other oatients will actually sink from exhaustion while refusing all food. 2760. Overfeeding gives no Strength.—Nothing is more common than to find some such reasoning as this : “ All invalids are more or less weak; weak- ness is to be cured by food ; all persons in poor health should be persuaded or * coerced into taking as much food as possible.” It is forgotten that not what a man swallows feeds him, but what he is able to digest and assimilate out of what he swallows. To overload feeble digestive organs is the surest way of preventing them from doing .V’en as much work as they could do if they were allowed to