1052 General Observations on Ices and Confectionery. CONFECTIONERY. 2287. In speaking of confectioneryr, it should be remarked that all the various preparations of syrups come, strictly speaking, under that head; for the various fruits, flowers, herbs, roots and juices, which, when boiled with sugar, were formerly employed in pharmacy as well as for sweetmeats, were called confections, from the Latin word conficere, “ to make up; ” but the term confectionery embraces a very large class indeed of sweet food, many kinds of which need not be attempted in the ordinary cuisine. The thousand-and-one ornamental dishes that adorn the tables of the wealthy may be purchased from the confectioner, if they cannot profitably be made at home. Apart frorn- these, cakes, biscuits and tarts, &c., the class of sweetmeats called confections may be thus classified :—1. Liquid confects, or fruits either whole or in pieces, preserved by being immersed in a fluid transparent syrup; as the liquid con- fects of apricots, green citrons, and many foreign fruits. 2. Dry confects are those which, after having been boiled in the syrup, are taken out and put to dry in an oven, as citron and orange-peel, &c. 3. Marmalades, jams and pastes, a kind of soft compounds made of the pulp of fruits or other vegetable substances, boiled with sugar or occasionally honey ; such as oranges, apricots, pears, &c. 4. Jellies are the juices of fruits boiled with sugar to a pretty thick consistency, so as, upon cooling, to form a trembling jelly, known as pectin; as currant, gooseberry, apple jelly, &c. 5. Conserves are a kind of dry confects, made by beating up flowers, fruits, &c., with sugar, not dissolved. 6. Candies are fruits candied over with sugar after having been boiled in the syrup. 2288. Home-made Confectionery.—A few years ago this art was almost entirely in the hands of experienced confectioners ; now, however, it is not at all unusual for a lady to prepare, with her own hands, very many of the pretty decorations one likes to see upon one’s table in the shape of sweets. It is well known that the bought sweetmeats, unless they come from a high firm of confectioners originally, are exceedingly injurious. Many a poor little child has gone to an untimely grave because of the “ pennyworth of sweets bought at the little sweet shop, and so pretty.” We have given a few recipes, by the aid of which mothers can themselves make their children wholesome, nice and “ pretty ” sweeties. 2283. Decorative pastry, as one of the highest and most interesting branches of the art of confectionery or pastry making, is the moulding of orna- mental stands, or pieces months, as they are called by the French chefs by whom they are most often made. Perfection in this, as in every other branch of art, can only be attained by time and labour, but that is no reason why one should shrink from making a beginning. It will be found by those who possess patience as well as dexterity, that the difficulties of erecting such models as those for which we give designs, are not insurmountable. The villa on page 1072, is one that has been made to look very pretty from pure confectionery, free from any injurious matter or colour- ing that was not vegetable, and therefore edible, and we give full instructions and plans for its construction, as well as recipes for the various pastes of which it is composed, the latter also serving for all the other models. Those who have some little talent for drawing will find it a great help to them in making, as well as copying, designs in pastry, and modelling is always a rather fascinating employment. 2290. Modelling in Paste.— This particular kind of modelling ia one that, giving work for both tasteful imagination and delicate fingers, makes it specially