i62« Legal Memoranda. bitten some one ; but a person has no right to place or suffer a dog so near to the door of his house that any person coming on business can be bitten ; and when a footpath passes through premises, the occupier has no right to put a dog with such a length of chain that he could bite a person going along such path. 3710. Drains.—When a tenant discovers that the drains of his house are so defective as to be obviously likely to be injurious to health, he must act with promptitude, and (generally before the payment of rent) must vacate the hold- ing, and notify the owner that he does so for such cause, or else he must require the owner to remedy the defect, and afterwards vacate upon non-compliance. In such cases, the defect must be very palpable and decided to justify the release of the tenant from his obligation to continue the tenancy. Slight dissatisfaction arising from the drains or fittings not being of the latest and best construction will not suffice as a plea. If the tenant, after the discovery of such defects, pays rent and makes no remark, the right to retire from the tenancy will, as a general rule, cease. The like considerations equally apply to the discovery that the house is intolerably infested with vermin, or is not decently habitable from any other cause not observed before occupation commenced. In all such respects the let- ting by the landlord implies a covenant by him that the house is decently fitted for occupation, while submission by the tenant for any considerable time must be taken as evidence that it is so fit. t 3711. Noisome Surroundings.—Trades which cause offensive smells must generally be submitted to if of long standing, of twenty years or more, but recent or entirely new cases can generally be stopped. It is not necessary that the offensiveness be injurious to health ; it suffices that it is personally offensive according to the estimation of average people. Objections by one tenant where others do not object will not suffice, and the character of the neighbourhood must be taken into account. Brick-burning, if designed to be carried on as a permanent business, can gene- rally be stopped if not long established, but if temporary, for the purpose of preparing bricks for building on the same or neighbouring land, it must generally be submitted to. A chimney, so constructed that the smoke from it passes into a neighbouring house, may be proceeded upon and removed or altered, whether used for trade or not. 3712. Noisy Nuisances. — Domestic arrangements or practices which involve noises to the vexation of neighbours can seldom be legally prevented. Hence the barking of dogs, the crowing of cocks, and the like, cannot be interfered with unless of a very unusual character, and proved to be injurious to a neigh- bour’s health. In the absence of evidence of injury to health there seems to be no remedy. In like manner the playing of musical instruments, singing or dancing, for private amusement or recreation, is beyond the reach of legal remedy, strikingly contrary to when it is in the way of business. Playing of musical instruments, singing, or dancing, conducted in the way of business, and so as to be an obvious nuisance to neighbours, can be legally stopped, as also can be any trade process which makes noises that disturb the rest or reasonable enjoyment of neighbours, regard being had, however, to the character of the neighbourhood, the kind of noise, and whether by day or night. The prescriptive right of carrying on the business, if of long continuance, must also be taken into account. When a noisy business nuisance is an injury to any other business that is not noisy, the right to remedy is much strengthened. Extensive printing works, with machinery running at night to the annoyance of the guests of an hotel, have been totally stopped by injunction. - %