3g6 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Seasonable at any timq, 883.—COLLARED BEEF. (Fr.—Galantine de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—7 lbs. of thin end of the flank of beef, 2 oz. of coarse sugar, 6 oz. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, 1 large handful of parsley minced, x dessertspoonful of minced sage, a bunch of savoury herbs, half a tea- spoonful of pounded allspice ; salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Choose fine tender beef, but not too fat; lay it in a dish, rub in the sugar, salt and saltpetre, and let it remain in the pickle for a week or ten days, turning and rubbing it every day. Then bone it, remove all the gristle and the coarse skin of the inside part, and sprinkle it thickly with parsley, herbs, spice and seasoning in the above proportion, taking :are that the former are finely minced, and the latter well pounded. Roll the meat up in a cloth as tightly as possible, in the same shape as shown in the engraving; bind it firmly with broad tape, and boil it gently for 6 hours. Immediately on taking it out of the pot, put it under a good weight, without undoing it, and let it remain until cold. This dish is a very nice addition to the breakfast-table. Time.—6 hours. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—During the time the beef is in pickle, it should be kept cool, and regularly rubbed and turned every day. 884.—BEEF-COLLOPS. (Fr.—Escalopes de Boeuf aux Capres.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of rumpsteak, 4 lb. of butter, 1 pint of gravy (water may be substituted for this), salt and pepper to taste, 1 shalot finely minced, £ a pickled walnut, 1 teaspooonful of capers. Mode.—Have the steak cut thin, and divide it in pieces about 3 inches long ; beat these with the blade of a knife, and dredge with flour. Put them in a frying-pan with the butter, and let them fry for about 3 minutes; then lay them in a small stewpan, and pour over them the gravy. Add a piece of butter, kneaded with a little flour, put in the seasoning and all the other ingredients, and let the whole simmer, but not boil, for 10 minutes. Serve in a hot covered dish. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons.