French Cookery. 113 and it may besides be such that it takes up water and increases in weight in the cooking. The other is a moist food, and will lose weight before it comes to table, or it may be starchy food, which can always be bought at a low price, or it may contain bone and waste, which is not properly to be called food at all. One very good contrast is afforded by a pound of rumpsteak at fourteenpence, and a pound of beans or lentils at twopence. Both are bought for the sake of flesh- forming, or nitrogenous, food. From neither is there actual waste to be cut away. But the broiled meat will not weigh more than 12 oz. when it comes to table, and the pulse will have taken up more than its own weight of water, which costs nothing. We have two pounds of food for twopence against three-quarters of a pound for one and twopence. This must always be remembered in dealing with all dry foods. One pound of Indian meal weighs when cooked three pounds; half-a-pound of maccaroni increases to two pounds, we are told by Rumford. Comparing rice to flour, if both are the same price, flour is cheaper because it is less starchy, and people who reckon such small economies as these are generally ill-fed, needing flesh- formers, which are chiefly to be found in the costlier foods. As a third example we may take beefsteak as compared to mutton chops ; they are usually about the same price per pound, but there can be no question which is the cheaper of the two, for the beef has no bone and little fat. FRENCH COOKERY. 233. Enr/lish v. French Cookery.—It is not easy to treat separately English and’French cookery, because, in the first place, by dint of borrowing across the Channel, the two have become inextricably mixed up, as is evidenced by our habitual use of French terms, and by the common, though less constant, use of English terms in French cookery-books ; and because, in the second, a good deal of what is distinctive in French cookery is founded on the nature of things, and cannot be transplanted. Perhaps the difference is greatest in the cooking of meat. We are accused of eating meat raw, and we retort that roast meat out of England is uneatable. The damp climate and the broad pastures, the turnip crops that flourish under our rainy skies, the graziers who for many years have worked to make British cattle and British sheep renowned through the world, these all have made our cookery what it is. That good, even excellent meat is to be found out of the British isles none will deny ; but the average is infinitely better in those isles than anywhere else on the Continent of Europe. The consequence is we have gained the habit of cooking meat so as to bring out the flavour and not to disguise it, while in other countries experience has taught to disguise it in many a cunning way. The universal wisdom of the English practice none will argue, for if there is much good meat in the market there is also much bad, which would be greatly improved by disguise, and there are also inferior joints on the best animal that lend themselves ill to the national cookery. 234. Meat Consumed in Paris.—The question has often been asked, “ Do we eat more meat than our neighbours ?” Most people would answer the question jn the affirmative ; but comparisons made between Paris and London by Dr. Letheby seem to show that, of the two, Paris eats more. The octroi returns show in Paris 49 oz. per head weekly, or 7 oz. a day per head of the population; the London market returns give 31^ oz. weekly, or 4^ oz. a day. It must be added that other evidence seems to show that, if the comparison were extended throughout the country, opposite results would be obtained. Probably the results would be different if the comparison were extended to the country and provincial towns. At any rate, London has a much larger supply of animal food in the shape of fish.