$1© Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Mode.—Put the giblets, with the head, neck, legs, &e,, into a stewp&a* add the onion, pepper, mace, salt, and rather more than i pint of water. Let this simmer for an hour, when strain the liquor over the bread, which should be previously grated or broken into small pieces. Cover up the saucepan, and leave it for an hour by the side of the fire; then beat the sauce up with a fork until no lumps remain, and the whole is nice and smooth. Let it boil for 3 or 4 minutes; keep stirring it until it is rather thick; when add three tablespoonfuls of good melted butter or cream, and serve very hot. Time.—z\ hours. Average Cost, 6d. 673.—BROWNED BUTTER. (Fr.—Beurre Noir.) (A French Sauce.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Put the butter into a frying-pan, over a nice clear fire, and when it smokes, throw in the parsley, and add the vinegar and seasoning. Let the whole simmer for a minute or two, when it is ready to serve. This is a very good sauce for skate. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, 5d. 674.—CLARIFIED BUTTER. Put the butter in a basin before the fire, and when it melts, stir it round once or twice, and let it settle. Do not strain it unless absolutely necessary, as it causes so much waste. Pour it gently off into a clean dry jar, care- fully leaving all sediment behind. Let it cool, and carefully exclude the air by means of a bladder, or piece of wash-leather tied over. If the butter is salt, it may be washed before melting, when it is to be used for sweet dishes. 673.—BUTTER MELTED. (Fn—Beurre Fondu.) Put £ lb. of fresh butter in a stewpan with a pinch of salt and pepper, and stir it till it melts, but do not let it burn, and use no more heat than is necessary just to melt it. Add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and serve in a hot tureen. This is often served with fish, asparagus, &c., instead of melted butter sauce. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. 676.—MELTED BUTTER. (Fr.—Sauce au Beurre.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, x quarter of a pint of water, salt to taste.