Beef Fritters. 399 891.—FRIED RUMP3TEAK. (Fr.-Biftecks Frits.) Ingredients.—Steaks, butter or clarified dripping. Mode. — Although broiling is a far superior method of cooking steaks to frying them, yet, when the cook is not very expert, the latter mode may be adopted ; and, when properly done, the dish may really look very inviting, and the flavour be good. The steaks should be cut rather thinner than for broiling, and with a small quantity of fat to each. Put some butter or clarified dripping into a frying-pan ; let it get quite hot, then lay in the steaks. Turn them frequently until done, which will be in about 8 minutes, or rather more should the steaks be very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, in which put a small piece of butter and a table- spoonful of ketchup, and season with pepper and salt. They should be sent to table quickly, as, when cold, the steaks are entirely spoiled. Time.—8 minutes for a medium-sized steak; rather longer for a very thick one. Average Cost, IS. to is. 2d. per lb. Seasonable all the year, but not good in summer, as the meat cannot hang to get tender. Note.—Where much gravy is liked, make it in the following manner:—As soon as the steaks are done, dish them, pour a little boiling water into the frying- pan, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, a small piece of butter, and a table- spoonful of Harvey’s sauce or mushroom ketchup. Hold the pan over the fire for a minute or two, just let the gravy simmer, then pour on the steak, and serve. A Frenchman's Opinion of Beef. — The following is translated from a celebrated modern French work, the production of one who in Paris enjoys a great reputation as cook and chemist: —The flesh of the ox, to be in the best condition, should be taken from an animal Of from four to six years old, and neither too fat nor too lean. This meat, which possesses in the highest degree the most nutritive qualities, is generally easily digested ; stock is made from it, and it is eaten boiled, broiled, roasted, stewed, braised, and in a hundred other different ways. Beef is the foundation of stock, gravies, braises, &c.; its nutritious and succulent gravy gives body and flavour to numberless ragouts. It is an exhaustless mine in the hands of a skilful artist, and is truly the king of the kitchen. Without it, no soup, no gravy ; and its absence would produce almost a famine in the civilised world. 892.—BEEF FRITTERS. (Fr.—Beignets de Boeuf.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast beef, pepper and salt to taste, $ lb. of flour, £ pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Mix very smoothly, and by degrees, the flour with the above proportion of water ; stir in 2 oz. of butter, which must be melted, but not oiled, and, just before it is to be used, add the whites of two well-whisked eggs. Should the batter be too thick, more water must be added. Pare down the cold beef into thin shreds, season with pepper and salt, and mix it with the batter. Drop a small quantity at a time into a pan of boiling lard, and fry from 7 to 10 minutes, according to the size. When done on one side, turn and brown them on the other. Let them dry for a minute