966 Dessert Dishes and Synall Savouries. placed down the centre of the table. The garnishing needs especial attention, as the contrast of the brilliant-coloured fruits with nicely-arranged foliage is very charming. The garnish par excellence for dessert is the ice-plant; its crystallized dewdrops producing a marvellous effect in the height of summer, giving a most inviting sense of, coolness to the fruit it encircles. The double-edged mallow, strawberry and vine leaves have a pleasing effect; and for winter desserts, the bay, cuba, and laurel are sometimes used. When high epergnes were in fashion, fruits were often mixed, but now it is thought better taste to give each one its separate dish or stand. A dessert would not now be considered complete without candied and preserved fruits and confections, these being put in very small glass dishes. 2062. Arrangement of Fruit.—Fruit should always be gathered on the same day that it is required for table, and should be tastefully arranged on the dishes, with leaves between and round it. By purchasing fruits that are in season, a dessert can be supplied at a very moderate cost. These, with a few fancy biscuits, crystallized fruit, bon-bons, &c., are sufficient for an ordinary dessert. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained, dried and foreign fruits must supply its place, with the addition of bon-bons, cakes, biscuits, and crystallized fruit. At some tables, forced fruit, such as strawberries, is served growing in pots, these pots being hidden in more ornamental ones, and arranged with the other dishes. Ices for dessert are usually moulded ; but when this is not the case, they are handed round in glasses, with wafers to accompany them. Pre- served ginger is frequently handed round after ices to prepare the palate for the dessert wines. A basin or glass of finely-pounded lump sugar must never be omitted at a dessert, as also a glass jug of fresh cold water (iced, in summer), and two goblets by its side. Grape-scissors, a melon-knife and fork, and nut-crackers, should always be put on the table, if there are dishes of fruit requiring them, while spoons should be put for each dish; with the dessert plates, knives and iorks. Finger glasses are placed to each person, nearly half filled with cold spring water, and in winter with tepid water. A spray of verbena (lemon plant), a leaf of scented geranium, or a little spray of maiden hair with some small blossom, may float on the water. Glasses are given according to the wine to be served, which may be put at each end of the table, cooled or otherwise, according to the season. If the party be small, the wine may be placed only at the top of the table near the host. 2063.—APPLES OR PEARS. These should be nicely wiped with a dry cloth, and arranged on a dish, piled high in the centre, with evergreen leaves between the layers. The inferior fruit should form the bottom layer, with the bright-coloured large ones at the top. The leaves of the laurel, bay, or holly are suitable for garnishing them in winter dishes. Oranges may be arranged in the same manner ; they should also be wiped with a dry cloth before being sent to tabie. DISH O' APPLES