445 Calf's Head Pie. Seasonable from March to October. 989.—BOILED CALF’S HEAD, HASHED. (Fr.—Tete de Veau.) Ingredients.—Calf’s head, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of flour, a grating of nutmeg, 3 tablespoonfuls of milk, 6 slices of bacon, 2 dozen forcemeat balls, seasoning of pepper, salt, mace, an onion, bunch of herbs, a wine- glassful of port, 8 mushrooms, 1 pint of gravy, lb. of lard. Mode.—Carefully cleanse the head of a freshly-killed calf, boil it three- quarters of an hour, let it stand till cold, then slice it up into nice-looking pieces. Peel the tongue, and cut it into thin slices. Boil the brains in a cloth, chop it fine, and beat it up with the egg, flour, milk, and nutmeg. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry the mixture in fritters the size of a crown piece. Flavour the gravy with the seasoning of pepper, salt and mace, herbs, onion and cayenne pepper ; let it simmer 20 minutes, and strain it, and add the wine and mushrooms. Place the sliced head and tongue in this, and let it warm gently for 10 minutes. Serve in the centre of the dish, with the brain, fritters, bacon, and forcemeat balls round. Time.— hours. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 2s. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 990.—CALF’S HEAD PIE. (Fr.—Pate de Tdte de Veau.) Ingredients.—Remains of cold calf’s head, cold boiled ham, force- meat balls, No. 629, 2 hard-boiled eggs, salt, pepper, mace, herbs, pepper- corns, r onion, £ pint of gravy. £ lb. pie-crust. Mode.—Remove all bones from the meat, and trim it into neat slices. Take a pie-dish and put a layer of ham at the bottom, then one of head with seasoning of salt and pepper, and any brain sauce, if you have it; dot the layers over with forcemeat balls and sliced egg. For the gravy, put the bones and any trimmings of veal into a saucepan with an onion, mace, peppercorns and herbs, and three-quarters of a pint of water. Let it simmer till a good gravy is obtained, then pour some of it into the dish. Now roll out the paste, and put a cover on the dish, making a hole in the centre for the steam to escape. This must be hidden afterwards by a paste ornament. Bake in a rather slow oven for three- quarters of an hour, then take out, pour in the rest of the gravy, put on the ornament, and set it aside to get cold. Time.—% hour. Average Cost, exclusive of meat, 84. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons.