CHAPTER XXXII. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON CREAMS, JELLIES, SOUFFLES, OMELETS AND SWEET DISHES. 1916. Cream.—The yellowish-white, opaque fluid, smooth and unctuous to the touch, which separates itself from new milk and forms a layer on its sur- face, is, when removed by skimming, employed in a variety of culinary prepara- tions. The analyses of the contents of cream have been decided to be, in 100 parts—butter, 3 5 ; curd, or matter of cheese, 3 5 ; whey, g2’o. That cream contains an oil is evinced by its staining clothes in the manner of oil; and when boiled for some time, a little oil floats upon the surface. The thick animal oil which it contains, the well-known butter, is separated only by agitation, as in the common process of churning, and the cheesy matter remains blended with the. whey in the state of buttermilk. Of the several kinds of cream, the principal are the Devonshire and Dutch clotted creams, the Costorphin cream, and the Scotch sour cream. The Devonshire and Cornwall cream is produced by nearly boiling the milk in shallow tin vessels over a charcoal fire, and keeping it in that state until the whole of the cream is thrown up. It is used instead of butter for butter making in those counties, but in London it is sold only for eating with fruits and tarts. The cream from Costorphin, a village of that name near Edinburgh, is accelerated in its separation from three or four days’ old milk, by a certain degree of heat ; and the Dutch clotted cream—a coagulated mass in which a spoon will stand upright—is manufactured from fresh-drawn milk, which is put into a pan, and stirred with a spoon two or three times a day, to prevent the cream from separating from the milk. The Scotch " sour cream ” is a misnomer ; for it is a material produced without cream. A small tub filled with skimmed milk is put into a larger one, containing hot water, and after remaining there all night, the thin milk (called wigg) is drawn off, and the remainder of the contents of the smaller vessel is " sour cream.”