686 Recipes for Cooking Game. The Snipe.—This is a migratory bird, and is generally distributed over Europe. It is found in most parts of England, in the high as well as the low lands, depending much on the weather. In very wet seasons it resorts to the hills, but at other times frequents marshes, where it can penetrate the earth with its bill, hunting for worms, which form its principal food. In the Hebrides and the Orkneys snipes are plentiful, and they are fattest in frosty weather. In the breeding season the snipe changes its note entirely from that which it has in the winter. The male will keep on wing for an hour together, mounting like a lark, and uttering a shrill piping noise ; then, with a bleating sound, not unlike that made by an old goat, it will descend with great velocity, especially if the female be sitting in her the snipe. nest, from which it will not wander far. 1413.—POTTED SNIPES. Ingredients.—Snipes, black pepper, salt, clarified butter, bacon. Mode.—The snipes must be perfectly fresh. Pluck them, cut off their legs and wings, take away the gizzard, but do not draw them. Split them in halves; take an oval earthen pie-dish, with cover having a hole in the centre; line the sides and bottom of the dish with thin slices of fat bacon. Place the prepared snipes in the dish in even rows, seasoning with salt and pepper. When the dish is nearly full, cover the birds com- pletely with fresh clarified butter. Put a thin flour paste round the edge of the dish to keep the steam in ; then put on the cover, and bake three-quarters of an hour in a hot but not fierce oven. Time.—f hour. Average Cost? 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. a brace. Seasonable from November to February. 1414.—ROAST ORTOLANS. (Fr.—Ortolans Rotis.) Ingredients.—6 ortolans, 6 slices of toast, vine-leaves, £ lb. of butter. Mode.—Keep them until tender; pluck, truss and wipe them care- fully, but do not draw them. Wrap each bird in a freshly gathered vine- leaf, and tie them on a bird-spit; roast or bake for 25 minutes, or less, if very small. Place the slices of toast in the dripping-pan to catch the trail; as soon as the butter melts, begin to baste, and never leave the birds until they are done, basting continually for the 25 minutes; dish up on the toast, and serve very hot, with some good gravy. Time.—25 minutes to roast. Average Cost, IS. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from November to February. I4I5-—ROAST TEAL. (Fr.—Sarcelle Rotie.) Ingredients.—Teal, butter, and a little flour. Mode.—Choose fat, plump birds, after the frost has set in, as they are generally better flavoured ; truss them in the sam^ manner as fowls for toasting ; roast them before a brisk fire, and keep them well basted. Serve