1302 Recipes for Italian Cookery. spoonfuls of puree of tomatoes, i teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, the juice of half a lemon, and a little butter. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 10s. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from May to September. Note.—A mirepoix may be made in any quantity required, only taking care to retain the proportions of the ingredients specified. 2963.—COD ALLA NAPOLETANA. Ingredients.—1 middle-sized cod, £ lb. of butter, 12 mushroom buttons preserved in oil, a bouquet of mixed herbs, 2 glasses of Marsala, 1 tea- cupful of Neapolitan sauce, 1 teacupful of cream. Mode.—Cleanse the fish as usual, cut it into slices of equal size, and put in a stewpan with the butter, herbs, mushrooms and wine. Simmer till the sauce is reduced, then pour in the Neapolitan sauce. When the cod is done, take it out and arrange on a dish with a garnish of macaroni stewed in stock with a few vegetables. Stir the cream and a little butter into the reduced sauce, see that it is quite smooth, and pour over the fish. Time.—^ to -J hour. Average Cost, 7s. to 10s. Sufficient for 10 persons. Seasonable from November to March. Note.—Neapolitan Sauce for the above. Fry in butter 1 onion, £ lb. of chopped ham. Add \ pint of Marsala, £ pint of white stock, a little thyme, whole pepper, 3 cloves, 2 bay leaves, and a few chopped mushrooms. Cover and allow to simmer until reduced to one-half. Into another saucepan put 1 pint of sauce espagnole, i pint of tomato sauce, \ pint of game bouillon. Reduce by one- third, add the above to it, boil for one minute, and pass through a tammy. 2964.—WHITING ALLA GENOVESE. Ingredients.—6 whiting, 2 oz. of butter, i pint of claret, 2 bay leaves, a little marjoram, salt and pepper. Mode.—Put the whiting with the other ingredients in a saucepan over a quick fire for a few minutes, turning them over. Then pick out the herbs, and pour in half a pint of sauce remoulade, to which has been added half a pint of sauce espagnole and a little stock. Stew together a few minutes, take out the fish, throw a few small mushrooms, cooked sepa- rately, into the sauce, which serve in a boat. Time.—About ^ hour. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year.