542 Recipes for Cooking Pork. “ Indeed," replied the judge, with some amazement, “ I was not aware that I had the honour of your alliance ; perhaps you will be good euough to name the degree of our mutuil affinity.’’ “ I am sorry, my lord,” returned the impudent thief, “ I cannot trace the links of consanguinity : but the moral evidence is sufficiently pertinent. My name, my lord, is Hogg, your lordship's is Bacon; and all the world will allow that bacon and hog are very closely allied.” “ I am sorry,” replied his lordship, “ i cannot admit the truth of your instance ; hog cannot be bacon until it is hanged; and so, before I can admit your plea, or acknowledge the family compact, Hogg must be hanged to-morrow morning.” 1190. —TO BAKE A HAM. (Fr.~Jambon.) Ingredients.—Ham ; a common crust. Mode.—As a ham for baking should be well soaked, let it remain in water for at least 12 hours. Wipe it dry, trim away any rusty places underneath, and cover it with a common crust, taking care that this is of sufficient thickness all over to keep the gravy in. Place it in a moderately- heated oven, and bake for nearly 4 hours. Take off the crust, and skin, and cover with raspings, the same as for boiled ham, and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. This method of cooking a ham is, by many persons, considered far superior to boiling it, as it cuts fuller of gravy and has a finer flavour, besides keeping a much longer time good. Time.—A medium-sized ham, 4 hours. Average Cost, from is. per lb. by the whole ham, or a very excellent American one can be bought at 8d. Seasonable all the year. 1191. —TO BOIL A HAM. {Fv.—Jambon.) Ingredients.—Ham, water, glaze or raspings. Mode.—In choosing a ham, ascertain that it it is perfectly sweet, by running a sharp knife into it, close to the bone; and if, when the knife is withdrawn, it has an agreeable smell, the ham is good ; if, on the contrary, the blade has a greasy appearance and offensive smell, the ham is bad. If it has been long hung, and it is very dry and salt, let it remain in soak for 24 hours,-changing the water frequently. This length of time is only necessary in the case of its being very hard ; from 8 to 12 hours would be sufficient for a Yorkshire or Westmoreland ham. Wash it thoroughly clean, and trim away from the under-side all the rusty and smoked parts, which would spoil the appearance. Put it into a boiling-pot, with sufficient cold water to cover it; bring it gradually to boil, and as the scum rises carefully re- move it. Keep it simmering very gently until tender, and be careful that it does not stop boiling nor boil too quickly. When done take it out of the pot, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over it a few bread-raspings, put a BOILED HAM.