Roast Goose„ 6a l ROAST GOOSE. Mode.—Make a sage-and-onion stuffing of the above ingredients, by recipe No. 638, put it into the body of the goose, and secure it firmly at both ends, by passing the rump through the hole made in the skin, and the other end by tying the skin of the neck to the back; by this means the seasoning will not escape. Put it down to a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and roast from one and a half to two hours, according to the size. Remove the skewers, jl-v. and serve with a tureen of good gravy, and one of well-made apple-sauce. Should a very highly flavoured seasoning be preferred, the onions should not be parboiled, but minced raw; of the two methods, the mild seasoning is far superior. A ragout, or pie, should be made of the giblets, or they may be stewed down to make gravy. Be careful to serve the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance will be spoiled by coming flattened to table. As this is rather a difficult joint to carve, a large quantity of gravy should not be poured round the goose, but sent in a tureen. Time.—A large goose, if hour; a moderate-sized one, if to if hour. Average Cost, gd. per lb. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable from September to February, but in perfection from Michaelmas to Christmas. Note.—A teaspoonful of made mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne, mixed with a glass of port wine, are sometimes poured into the goose by a slit made in the apron. This sauce is, by many persons, considered aD improvement. The Goose.—This bird is pretty generally distributed over the face of the globe, being met with in North America, Lapland, Iceland, Arabia and Persia. Its varieties are nume- rous; but in England there is only one species, whiffh is supposed to be a native breed. The best geese are found on the borders of Suflolk, and in Norfolk and Berkshire; but the largest flocks are reared in the fens of Lincolnshire and Cambridge. They thrive best where they have an easy access to water, and large herds of them are sent every year to London, to be fat- tened by the metropolitan poulterers. “ A Michael- mas goose,” says Dr. Kitchener, “ is as famous in the mouths of the millions as the mince-pie at Christmas; yet for those who eat with delicacy it is, at that time, too full-grown. The true period when the goose is in the highest perfection is when it has just acquired its full growth, and not begun to harden ; if the March goose is insipid, the Michaelmas goose is rank. T he fine time for green geese is from the second week in June to the first in September." It is said that the Michaelmas goose is indebted to Queen Elizabeth for its origin on the table at that season. Her Majesty happened to dine on one, at the table of an English baronet, when she received the news of the discomfiture of the Spanish Armada. In commemoration of this event, she commanded the goose to make its appearance at table on every Michaelmas. We here give an engraving of the Emden goose.