840 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. Seasonable at any time 1773 — DUCHESSE CAKE. (Fr.—Gateau a la Duchesse.) Mode.—Take any good sponge or Madeira cake, and cut it into rounds or ovals of the size required, and about $ inch thick. If the cake has been baked on purpose for gateaux, it will already be of the required thickness, but any cake can be split and used. Spread each piece with apricot jam, and lay them one over the other, carefully trimming the edges with a sharp knife. Mix together over a slow fire, 1 glass of ,Maraschino or other liqueur, and 6 oz. of finely-sifted sugar with cochineal to colour, and spread this over the gateau. Ornament it with pipings of sugar icing or with dried fruits, chopped pistachio nuts, tiny lumps of sugar-coloured or white, or cut out of the trimmings small oblong, oval, finger, or crescent-shaped cakes, ice them with different icing, and stick them round the larger gateau. This is but one mode of making a sweet that has endless variations. For instance, chocolate icing or plain sugar icing may be used, or the cake may be spread thinly with apricot jam or marmalade over top and sides, and sprinkled with chopped almonds or pistachios ; or of all except the bottom two rounds of cake the centre can be stamped with a cutter, and the hole thus left can be filled with whipped cream. 1774. -CHOCOLATE ICING. Ingredients.—4 lb. of sugar, 3 oz. of chocolate, grated or in powder vanilla flavouring if there is already none in the chocolate, a small tea- cupful of water. Mode.—Melt it over a slow fire, spread the cake or cakes, and dry them in the oven. 1775. —FRUIT turnovers. [Suitable for Picnics.) Ingredients.—Puff-paste, No. 1675, any kind of fruit, sugar to taste. Mode.—Make some puff-paste by recipe No. 1675 ; roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and cut it out in pieces of a circular form ; pile the fruit on half of the paste, sprinkle over some sugar, wet the edges and turn the paste over. Press the edges together, ornament them, and brush the turnovers over with the white of an egg; sprinkle over sifted sugar, and bake on tins, in a brisk oven, for about 20 minutes. Instead of putting the fruit in raw, it may be boiled down with a little sugar first, and then enclosed in the crust; or jam of any kind may be substituted for fresh fruit. Time.—20 minutes. Sufficient.—4 lb. of puff-paste will make a dozen turnovers.