General Observations on Teas. 1440 apprising them of the fact so that they may come prepared. The hostess, even if she be herself musical, has her time taken up very fully with receiving and looking after her guests, and unless she sings the first song or plays the first piece (which few amateurs like to do), should leave herself free to devote herself to her guests. The instrumental pieces chosen on these occasions should not be helped by gentlemen friends if there be long ones, and a good break should be made between each song, solo or recita- tion for conversation, people going more to these entertainments to meet their friends and have a chat than for the sake of the music. Introductions are not the rule at “ at homes,” but they can be made when there is any necessity. The tea is not served in the drawing-room as at smaller “at homes,” but at a buffet in the dining-room, where people go during the afternoon, or sometimes as they leave, to partake of the light refreshments pro- vided. Women-servants, or sometimes hired attendants, do all the work of pouring out tea or wine or handing sandwiches, &c., unless gentlemen bring refreshments for ladies to where they are seated. At the buffet, people may help themselves or be not a sufficient number of attendants. 3199. A weekly “At Home ” ten is a very simple affair. It is served upon small tables, the servant before bringing it in seeing that one is placed con- veniently near his mistress, it being generally dispensed by her. No plates are given for a tea of this kind, and the servant or servants after see- ing that all is in readiness, leave the room, the gentlemen of the party doing all the waiting that is necessary. The tea equipage is usually placed upon a silver salver, the hot water is in a small silver or china kettle on a stand, and the cups are small. Thin bread and butter, cake, and sometimes fresh fruit are all the eatables given. 3200. High tea may be either a substantial meal with several courses, that is in all but a name (like a first-rate luncheon) a dinner, or it may be with one or two little dishes of fish, poultry, game or meat, either cold or rechauffe, more like a light and early supper. In some houses it is a permanent institution, quite taking the place of late dinner, and to many it is a most enjoyable meal, young people preferring it to dinner, it being a movable feast that can be partaken of at hours which will not interfere with tennis, boating or other amusements, and but little formality IS AFTERNOON TEA-TABLE.