Vegetable Soups. 147 395.—SAGO SOUP. (Fr.—Potage La?on a la Creme.) (An excellent soup, very beneficial for the voice.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of sago, |pint of milk or cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 lump of sugar, and seasoning to taste ; 1 bay leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock, No. 273. Mode.—Having washed the sago in water, mix it slowly with the boil- ing stock. Simmer for £ an hour, when it should be quite transparent. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add to them the boiling cream ; stir these quickly in the soup, and serve immediately. Do not let the soup boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, rod. per quart, with milk. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This is a soup, the principal ingredients of which, sago and eggs, have always been deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat. In various quan- tities, and in different preparations, these have been partaken of by the principal singers of the day, including the celebrated Swedish Nightingale, Jenny Lind, and, as they have always avowed, with considerable advantage to the voice, in singing. 296.—CARROT SOUP. (Fr.—Potage Cr6cy au Gras.) Ingredients.—4 quarts of liquor, in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled; a few beef-bones, 6 large carrots, 2 large onions, 1 turnip, seasoning of pepper and salt to taste; cayenne. Mode.—Put the liquor, bones, onions, turnip, pepper and salt, into a stewpan, and simmer for 3 hours. Scrape and cut the carrots thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth ; then boil the pulp with the soup, which should be of the consistency of pea soup. Add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and make this soup the day before it is wanted. Time.—4^ hours. Average Cost, 1 \d. per quart. Seasonable from October to March. Sufficient for 10 persons. 297.—CARROT SOUP. (Fr.—Potage Gr£cy.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of carrots, 3 oz. of butter, seasoning to taste of salt and cayenne, 2 quarts of stock or gravy soup. Mode. Scrape and cut out all specks from the carrots, wash and wipe them dry, and then reduce them to quarter-inch slices. Put the butter into a large stewpan, and when it is melted, add 2 lbs. of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour without browning. Add to