Different Breeds of Deer. 69 r proportion as the animal is in condition, the entire horns are completed. The solidity of the extremities, however, is not perfect until the horns have arrived at their full growth. Old stags usually shed their horns first, which generally happens towards the latter end of February or the beginning of March. Such as are between five and six years old shed them about the middle or latter end of March ; those still younger in the month of April; and the youngest of all not till the middle or latter end of May. These rules, though generally true, are subject to variations; for a severe winter will retard the shedding of the horns.—The Hind has no horns, and is less THE STAG. THE HIND. fitted for being hunted than the male. She takes the greatest care of her young, and secretes them in the most obscure thickets, lest they become a prey to their numerous enemies. All the rapacious family of the cat kind, with the wolf, the dog, the eagle and the falcon, are continually endeavouring to find her retreat, whilst the stag himself is the foe of his own offspring. When she has young, therefore, it would seem that the courage of the male is transferred to the female, for she defends them with the most resolute bravery. If pursued by the hunter, she will fly before the hounds for half the day, and then return to her young, whose life she has thus pre- served at the hazard of her own. The New Venison.—The deer population of our splendid English parks was, for a very long time, limited to two species, the fallow and the red. But as the fallow-deer itself was an accli- mated animal, of comparatively recent introduction, it came to be a question whv might not the ELAND (BULL). ELAND (cow), proprietor of any deer-park is. England have the luxury of at least half a dozen species of deer and antelopes to adorn the hills, dales, ferny brakes and rich pastures of his domain ? The temperate regions of the whole world might be made to yield specimens of the nobie ruminant, valuable either for their individual beauty, or for their availability to gastronomic purposes. We are indebted for the introduction of foreign deer to some English noblemen, who have made the experiment of breeding them in their parks, and have obtained such a decided success that it may be hoped their example yvill induce others fo follow in a course which will eventually give