Fish Soups. 195 Sufficient for 4 persons. 399.—PRAWN SOUP. (Fr.—Potage aux Crevettes.) Ingredients.—Two quarts of fish stock, two pints of prawns, the crumb of a French roll, anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup to taste, one blade of mace, J pint of vinegar, a little lemon-juice. Mode.—Pick out the tails of the prawns, put the bodies in a stewpan, with 1 blade of mace, \ pint of vinegar, and the same quantity of water; stew them for a quarter of an hour, and strain off the liquor. Put the fish stock into a stewpan, add the strained liquor, pound the prawns with the crumb of a roll, moistened with a little of the soup; rub them through a tammy, and mix them by degrees with the soup ; add ketchup or anchovy sauce to taste, with a little lemon-juice. When it is well cooked, put in a few picked prawns; let them get thoroughly hot, and serve. If not thick enough, put in a little butter and flour. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This can be thickened with tomatoes and vermicelli served in it, which makes it a very tasteful soup. The soup can be made of shrimps and garnished with prawns, where economy is an object. The Prawn.—This little fish bears a striking resemblance to the shrimp, but is neither so common nor so small. It is to be found on most of the sandy shores of Europe. The Isle of Wight is famous for shrimps, where they are potted ; but both the prawns and the shrimps vended in London are too much salted for the excellence of natural flavour to be preserved. They are extremely lively little animals, as they are seen in their native retreats. 400.—SKATE SOUP. (Fr.— Potage de Raie.) Ingredients.—1 very small skate, 2 onions, parsley, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, dessertspoonful of ketchup, 1 wineglassful of sherry, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Clean the skate thoroughly and let it hang a day, in cold weather 2 days ; skin and cut the thick parts in fillets about two inches square. Boil the head and trimmings with the onions and parsley, and reduce until one quart only is left, skim and strain this; brown the butter, and colour and thicken the soup with it. Put in the fillets and boil for 15 minutes, adding salt, pepper, catsup, and wine. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost for this quantity, is. 6d. Seasonable from August to April. 1 HE PRAWN.