8lO Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. Mode.—Stir and beat the above ingredients thoroughly, then pour them into a buttered mould and steam it 2 or 3 hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Time.—2 to 3 hours. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time, but more suitable for a winter pudding. 1700.—AMBER PUDDING. Ingredients.—6 apples, 3 oz. of butter, rind and juice of 1 lemon, | lb. of sugar, 3 eggs, castor sugar, short crust. Mode.—Peel and core the apples and stew them to a marmalade with the rind and juice of the lemon, the sugar and the butter. Line a pie- dish with a strip of short crust and butter the bottom of the dish. Pass the marmalade through a sieve, add the yolks of the eggs and pour into the dish. Bake for ^ hour, during which time beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding as much castor sugar as they will take up and a little essence of lemon. Pile this on the pudding and bake for another J hour. Time.—£ hour in all to bake the pudding. Average Cost, is. 3<*. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. 1701.—BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. (A Plain Family Dish.) Ingredients.—6 apples, f lb. of suet-crust, No. 1684, sugar to taste. Mode.—Pare and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing them, and make half a lb. of suet-crust by recipe No. 1684 ; roll the apples in the crust, previously sweetening them with moist sugar and taking care to join the paste nicely. When they are formed into round balls, put them on a tin and bake them for about half an hour, or longer should the apples be very large ; arrange them pyramidically on a dish and sift over them some pounded white sugar. These may be made richer by using one of the puff-pastes instead of suet. Time.—From ^ to f hour, or longer. Average Cost, i%d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from August to March, but flavourless after the end of January. Uses of the Apple.—It is well known that this fruit forms a very important article of food, in the form of pies and puddings, and furnishes several delicacies, such as sauces, marmalades and fellies, and is much esteemed as a dessert fruit. When flattened in the form of round cakes and baked in ovens, they are called beefings ; and large quantities are annually dried in the sun in America as well as in Normandy and stored for use during winter, when they may be stewed or made into pies. In a roasted state they are remarkably wholesome, and, it is said, strengthening to a weak stomach. In putrid and malignant fevers, when used with the juice of lemons and currants, they are considered highly efficacious.