406 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Mode.—Wash, scald and thoroughly clean the feet, and cut them into pieces about 2 inches long; have ready some fine bread-crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley, cayenne and salt; dip the pieces of heel into the yolk of egg, sprinkle them with the bread-crumbs, and fry them in boiling butter until of a nice brown. Time.—i hour. Average CosLgrf. each. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Ox-feet may be dressed in various ways, stewed in gravy or plainly boiled, and served with melted butter. When plainly boiled, the liquor will answer for making sweet or relishing jellies, and also to give richness to soups or gravies. 908.—STEWED OX-TAILS. (Fr.—Queue de Bceuf a la Sauce Piquante.) Ingredients.—2 ox-tails, I onion, 3 cloves, i blade of mace, Jteaspoon- fnl of whole black pepper, £ teaspoonful of allspice, £ a teaspoonful of salt, a small bunch of savoury herbs, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Divide the tails at the joints, wash and put them into a stew- pan with sufficient water to cover them, and set them on the fire; when the water boils remove the scum, and add the onion cut into rings, the spice, seasoning and herbs. Cover the stewpan closely, and let the tails simmer very gently until tender, which will be in about two and a half hours. Take them out, make a thickening of butter and flour, add it to the gravy, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour. Strain it through a sieve into a saucepan, put back the tails, add the lemon-juice and ketchup; let the whole just boil up, and serve. Garnish with croutons or sippets of toasted bread. Time.—2^ hours to stew the tails.. Average Cost, is. 9d. each. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. The Tails of Animals.—In the class Mammalia, the vertebral column, or backbone, presents only slight modifications, and everywhere shows the same characteristics as in man, who stands at the head of this division of the animal kingdom. The length of this column however, varies much, and the number of vertebrae of which it is composed is far from being uniform. These numerical differences principally depend on the unequal development of the caudal portion, or tail-end, of the column. Thus, the tail-forming vertebrae sometimes do not exist at all—amongst certain bats, for example ; in other instances we reckon forty, fifty and even sixty of these bones. Among the greater number of mammals, the tail is of little use for locomotion, except that it acts in many cases as does the rudder of a ship, steadying the animal in his rapid movements, and enabling him to turn more easily and quickly. Among some animals, it becomes avery powerful instrument of progression. Thus, in the kangaroos and jerboas the tail forms, with the hind feet, a kind of tripod from which the animal makes its spring. With most of the American mon- keys it is prehensile, and serves the animal as a fifth hand to suspend itself from the branches of trees; and lastly,among the whales, it grows to an enormous size, and becomes the principal Instrument for swimming,