344 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. the pan on to the fire, and lightly whisk the contents till they thicken. It will become light and frothy, and should be served at once. Time.—io to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. per pint. Seasonable, June to September. 761—FRENCH SALAD SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Ravigote.) (Mons. Ude's Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of cavice, 1 teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of Reading sauce, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of thick bechamel, No. 665; 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Scald the parsley, mince the leaves very fine, and add it to all the other ingredients ; after mixing the whole together thoroughly, the sauce will be ready for use. Average Cost, for this quantity, 10d. Seasonable at any time. 762.—ROBERT SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Robert.) (For Steaks, &c.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 4 table- spoonfuls of gravy, or stock No. 272, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoon- ful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, the juice of £ lemon. Mode.—Put the butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and, when browning, throw in the onions, which must be cut into small slices. Fry them brown, but do not burn them ; add the flour, shake the onion in it, and give the whole another fry. Put in the gravy and seasoning, and boil it gently for 10 minutes; skim off the fat, add the mustard, vinegar and lemon-juice ; give it one boil, and pour round the steaks, or whatever dish the sauce has been prepared for. Time.—Altogether £ hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 6d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for about 2 lbs. of steak. Note.—This sauce will be found an excellent accompaniment to roast goose, pork, mutton cutieis, (Xi 1V1 various other dishes. 763—SAGINA SAUCE. Ingredients.—6 large sage leaves, 2 onions, 1 teaspoonful of flouir, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, butter, salt, pepper, £ pint of gravy, No. 615. Mode.—Scald the sage leaves and chop them, with the onions, to a mincemeat. Pat them into a stewpan. with a piece of butter the size of a