Plum Tart. 865 Time.—i to \ hour. Average Cost, is. Mode.—Line a pudding-basin with suet-crust rolled out to the thickness of about half an inch; fill the basin with the fruit, put in the sugar, and cover with crust; fold the edges over, aud pinch them together, to prevent the juice from escaping; tie over a floured cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil from 2 to 2\ hours; turn it out of the basin, and serve quickly. Time.—2 to hours. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums, from the beginning of August to the beginning of October. Plums. -Almost all the varieties ot the cultivated plum are agreeable and refreshing; it is not a nourishing fruit, and if indulged in to excess, when unripe, is almost certain to cause diarrhoea and cholera. Weak and delicate persons had better abstain from plums altogether. The plums. modes of preparing plums are as numerous as the varieties of the fruit. The objections raised against raw plums do not apply to the cooked fruit, which even the invalid may eat in moderation. 1840.—PLUM TART. Ingredients.—f lb. of good short-crust, No. 1680, i£ pint of plums, \ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line the edge of a deep tart-dish with crust made by recipe No. 1680; fill the dish with plums, and place a small cup or jar, upside down, in the midst of them ; put in the sugar, cover the pie with crust, ornament the edges, and bake in a good oven from half to three- quarters of an hour; when puff-crust is preferred to short-crust, use that made by recipe No. 1675, and glaze the top by brushing it over with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth with a knife ; sprinkle over a little sifted sugar, and put the pie in the oven to set the glaze. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums, from the beginning of August to the beginning of October. 1841.-POTATO PUDDING. Ingredients.— £ lb. of mashed potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, £ pint or milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, £ saltspoonful of salt, the juice and rind of 1 small lemon. 2 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Boil sufficient potatoes to make half a lb. when mashed ; add to these the butter, eggs, milk, sherry, lemon-juice, and sugar ; mince the lemon-peel very finely, and beat all the ingredients well together; put the PLUM TART.