Cherry Tart. 829 Mode.—Boil the sugar and water together until it is dark brown, then warm a buttered mould or basin and coat it over with this caramel. The best plan is to put in the caramel and keep turning it round and round till it is set. Put in the other ingredients, which must be thoroughly mixed and then strained, cover and steam it very gently for one hour. The water round must not bubble. When it is quite cold turn it out carefully. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1745.-ROYAL COBURG PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 pint of new milk, 6 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of sugar, 6 oz. of butter, 6 oz. of currants, 6 eggs, brandy and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter with the milk, add the re- maining ingredients gradually and when well mixed, put it into four basins or moulds, half full; bake for three-quarters of an hour, turn the puddings out on a dish and serve with wine sauce. Time.—J hour. Average Cost, is. 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1746.-CORN-FLOUR PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of corn-flour, pint of milk, 1 table- spoonful of moist sugar, 1 egg. Mode.—Mix the corn-flour into a smooth paste with a little cold milk ; boil the rest of the milk and pour it boiling on the paste; stir in the sugar and egg and pour into a pie-dish ; bake for 20 minutes. Time.—20 minutes to bake. Average Cost, 5d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1747.—CHERRY TART. (Fr.—Flan de Cerises.) Ingredients.—i| lb. of cherries, 2 small tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, } lb. of short-crust, No. 1679 or 1680. Mode.—Pick the stalks from the cherries, put them, with the sugar, into a deep pie-dish just capable of holding them, with a small cup placed upside down in the midst of them. Make a short-crust with half a pound ot flour, by either of the recipes Nos. 1679 or 1680 ; lay a border round the edge of the dish, put on the cover and ornament the edges; bake in a brisk oven from half an hour to 40 minutes; strew finely-sifted sugar over