Recipes for American Dishes. 1252 2835.-SWEET PICKLE, (Of Plums, Pears, Peaches, &c.) Ingredients.—7 lbs. of fruit, 4 lbs. of white sugar, 1 pint of strong vinegar, mace, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Mode.—Pare the peaches and pears, prick the plums, or other fruits, put them in the pan with layers of sugar between the fruit, heat slowly to a boil, add the vinegar and spice, and boil 5 minutes. Take out the fruit with a skimmer and put on dishes to cool, and boil the syrup thick. Pack the fruit in glass jars, pour the syrup (boiling) over them and cork tightly. Examine frequently for the first month, and if there are any signs of fermentation, put the jars, uncovered, in a pan of water and heat until they are scalding hot. Seasonable to make when fruit is cheap and plentiful. 2836.—SUCCOTASH. Ingredients.—Green corn, Lima or string beans, milk, butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the corn from the cob and shell the beans, or if string beans are used, string and cut them in small pieces. Let there be one- third more corn than beans when prepared. Put the beans in a sauce, pan of boiling water, and boil 20 minutes, then drain and add the corn and mix. Put them in a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them and a little salt, and after stewing half-an-hour, stirring often, pour off most of the water, substituting milk. Add a good-sized lump of butter, and pepper to taste, and let the whole stew 10 minutes longer, then dish and serve hot. Time.—I hour, or longer. Seasonable from July to October. 2837.-SUMMER OR WINTER SQUASH. Ingredients.—Squash, water to boil, pepper, salt and butter. Mode.—There are many kinds of squash, but they are all cooked in much the same manner. In winter they must lie in cold water for 2 hours before cooking, and will afterwards take longer to cook than the summer ones. Pare, cut in half, take out the seeds, quarter and lay them in cold water (in summer for half an hour). Put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt, and boil till tender. Drain them, pressing the water out thoroughly, and mash with pepper, salt and butter. Time.—% hour, for summer squash, longer for winter ones. Seasonable all the year. Note.—The flat white ones are considered the best of the summer varieties. The yellow winter squashes grow best in New England, and are good all through the season.