462 Recipes for Cooking Veal Seasonable from March to October; Time.—From 15 to 18 minutes. Average Cost, is. per ib. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1022.— FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. (Fr.—Noix de Veau Barde aux Epinards, etc.) Ingredients.—A piece of the fat side of a leg of veal (about 3 lbs.), lardoons (strips of bacon cut for larding), 2 carrots, 2 large onions, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, 6 whole allspice, 2 bay-leaves, pepper to taste, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 pint of stock No. 273. Mode.—The veal for a fricandeau should be of the best quality, or it will not be good. It may be known by the meat being white and not thready. Take off the skin, flatten the veal on the table, then, at one stroke of the knife, cut off as much as is required, for a fricandeau with an uneven surface never looks well. Trim it, and with a sharp knife make two or three slits in the middle, that it may taste more of the seasoning. Now lard it thickly with fat bacon, as lean gives a red colour to the fricandeau. Slice the vegetables, and put these, with the herbs and spices, in the FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. . r , r 1 • ri middle oi a stewpan, with a tew slices ot bacon at the top; these should form a sort of mound in the centre for the veal to rest upon. Lay the fricandeau over the bacon, sprinkle over it a little salt, and pour in just sufficient stock to cover the bacon, &c., without touching the veal. Let it gradually come to a boil; then put it over a slow and equal fire, and let it simmer very gently for about 2| hours, or longer should it be very large. Baste it frequently with the liquor, and a short time before serving, put it into a brisk oven, to make the bacon firm, which otherwise would break when it was glazed. Dish the fricandeau, keep it hot, skim off the fat from the liquor, and reduce it quickly to a glaze, with which glaze the fricandeau, and serve with a puree of whatever vegetable happens to be in season— spinach, sorrel, asparagus, cucumbers, peas, &c. Time.—2% hours. If very large allow more time. Average Cost, 4s. Sufficient for an entree for 8 persons.