1478 Women Servants Duties. both morning and evening, to see that toilet tables, wash-hand stands, fires, &c„ are in order. The number of housemaids depends not only upon the number of the family but also on the style in which the establishment is kept up. In wealthy families it is not unusual for every grown-up daughter to have her waiting-maid, whose duty it is to keep her mistress’s apartments in order, thus abridging the housemaid s duties. In others, perhaps, one waiting-maid attends on two or three, when the housemaid’s assistance will be more requisite. Where there is a housekeeper, the head housemaid, in the absence of a still-room maid, is her assistant. Every establishment has some customs peculiar to itself, on which we need not dwell ; the general duties are the same in all, perfect cleanliness and order being the chief object. 3276. Duties of the Housemaid.—“Cleanli- ness is next to godliness,” saith the proverb, and “ order ” is the next degree; the housemaid, then, may be said to be the handmaiden to two of the most prominent virtues. Her duties are very numerous, and many of the comforts of the family depend on their performance ; but they are simple and easy to a person naturally clean and orderly, and desirous of giving satisfaction. In all families, whatever the habits of the master and mistress, servants will find it advan- tageous to rise early; their daily work will thus become easy to them. If they rise late, there is a struggle to overtake it, which throws an air of haste and hurry over the whole establishment. Where the master’s time is regulated by early business or professional engage- ments, this will, of course, regulate the hours of the servants; but even where this is not the case, servants will find great personal convenience in rising early and getting through their work in an orderly and methodical manner. The housemaid who studies her own ease will certainly be at her work by six o’clock in the summer, and, probably, half-past six or seven in the winter months, having spent a reasonable time in her own chamber in dressing. Earlier than this would probably be an unnecessary waste of coals and candle in winter. 3277. The first duty of the housemaid in winter is to open the shutters of all the lower rooms in the house, and take up the hearthrugs in those rooms which she is going to “do ” before breakfast. In some families, where there arr only a cook and housemaid kept, and where the drawing-rooms are large, the cook has the care of the dining-room, and the housemaid that of the breakfast-room, library and drawing-rooms. After the shutters are all opened, she sweeps the breakfast- room, sweeping the dust towards the fireplace, of course previously removing the fender. She should then lay a cloth (generally made of coarse wrappering) over the carpet in front of the stove, and on this should place her house- maid’s box, containing black-lead brushes, leathers, emery- paper, cloth, black-lead, and all utensils necessary for clean- stove-brushes. jng a gratei wjth the cinder-pail on the other side. She now sweeps up the ashes, and deposits them in her cinder-pail, which is a japanned