600 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. wool, flannel or hay, and stood in the sunlight if it be summer-time, or by the fire if the weather be cold. It is a common practice to cram young chicks with food as soon as they are born. This is quite unnecessary. They will, so long as they are kept warm, come to no harm if they take no food for twenty-lour hours following their birth. Should the whole of the brood not be hatched by that time, those that are born may be fed with bread soaked in milk, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, or with Emden grits. 1283. —BACHELOR’S CHICKEN PIE. (Fr.—Pate de Volaille.) Ingredients.—1 chicken, 3 pints of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream of tartar, £ cup of butter, teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda, and milk. Mode.—Cut up the chicken, put it into a stewpan with enough water to make the gravy; if the chicken is young it will only be necessary to let i+ come to a boil; season it. Make a crust with the flour, &c., dis- solving the soda first in hot water, and rubbing the cream of tartar into the butter. Add sufficient milk to make a stiff paste, then roll it out, butter the sides of a deep earthen baking-dish, and line them with paste, but leave the bottom untouched. Put in the chicken, thicken the gravy with a little flour, pour it over the fowl, put on the top crust, and bake three quarters of an hour. Time.—Altogether 1 to hour. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1284. —POTTED CHICKEN OR FOWL. (Fr.—Terrine de Volaille.) (A Luncheon or Breakfast Dish.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast chicken; to every lb. of meat allow £ lb. of fresh butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, ^ small nutmeg. Mode.—Strip the meat from the bones of cold roast chicken; when it is freed from gristle and skin, weigh it, and to every lb. of meat allow the above proportion of butter, seasoning and spices. Cut the meat into small pieces, pound it well with the fresh butter, sprinkle in the spices gradually, and keep pounding until it is reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Put it into potting-pots for use, and cover it with clarified butter, about a quarter of an inch in thickness; and, if to be kept for some time, tie over a bladder. 2 or 3 slices of ham, minced and pounded with the above ingredients, will be found an improvement. It should be kept in a dry place. Seasonaole at any time. Feeding and Cooping th? Chicks.—When all the chicks are hatched, they should be placed alone with the mother under a coop in a warm dry spot. If two hens happen to have their broods at the same time, their respective chicks should be carefully kept separate; as, if they get mixed, and so go under the wrong coop, the hens will probably maim and destroy those who