Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 86o tare with these, and beat it well; stir in the brandy, and put the padding into a buttered mould ; tie it down with a cloth, boil for i£ hour, and serve with sweet sauce. Time.—1| hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. 1831.—PARADISE PUDDING. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, 6 apples, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, 6 oz. of sugar, 1 glass of brandy, peel of ^ a lemon cut thin, £ teaspoonful ot salt, 1 grating of nutmeg. Mode.— Peel and mince the apples, and mix with the sugar and bread- crumbs, lemon-peel, salt, and nutmeg; beat the eggs, and add them; stir in the brandy. Boil in a well-buttered mould for three hours, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, is. 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1832.-BAKED PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, a few slices of candied peel. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; mix with it the flour, currants, stoned raisins, and candied peel; moisten with the well-beaten eggs, and add sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of very thick batter. Put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a good oven from z\ to hours; turn it out, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. For a very plain pudding, use only half the quantity of fruit, omit the eggs, and substitute milk or water for them. The above ingredients make a large family pudding ; for a small one, half the quantity would be found ample; but it must be baked quite 1^ hour. Time.—Large pudding, z\ to z\ hours; half the size, 1^ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable in winter. Raisin-Grape.—All the kinds of raisins have much the same virtues; they are nutritive and balsamic, but they are very subject to fermentation with juices of any kind ; and hence, when eaten immoderately, they often bring on colics. There are many varieties of grapes used for raisins; the fruit of Valencia is that mostly dried for culinary purposes, while most of the table kinds are grown in Malaga, and called Musca- tels. The finest of all table raisins come from Provence or Italy; the most esteemed of all are those of Roquevaire; they are very large and very sweet. This sort is rarely eaten by any but the most wealthy. The dried Malaga, or Muscatel raisins, which come to this country packed in small boxes, and nicely preserved in bunches, are variable in tfrcir quality, but most of a rich flavour, when new, juicy, ana of a deep purple hue. RAISIN-GRAPE.