984 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. thoroughly understands her business, it is scarcely worth while to attempt to make this elaborate ornament, as it may be purchased quite as econo- mically at a confectioner’s, if the failures in the preparation are taken into consideration. 2122.—COMPOTE OF APPLES. (Soyer's Recipe. A Dessert Dish.) Ingredients.—6 ripe apples, I lemon, £ lb. of lump sugar, £ pint of water. Mode.—Select the apples of a moderate size, peel them, cut them in halves, remove the cores, and rub each piece over with a little lemon. Put the sugar and water together into a lined saucepan, and let them boil until forming a thickish syrup, when lay in the apples with the rind of the lemon cut thin, and the juice of the same. Let the apples simmer till tender; then take them out very carefully, drain them on a sieve, and reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly for a few minutes. When both are cold, arrange the apples neatly on a glass dish, pour over the syrup, and garnish with strips of green angelica or candied citron. Smaller apples may be. dressed in the same manner: they should not be divided in halves, but peeled, and the cores pushed out with a vegetable cutter. Time.—10 minutes to boil the sugar and water together ; from 15 to 25 minutes to simmer the apples. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to March. 2123.—APPLE GINGER. (A Dessert Dish.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of any kind of hard apples, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, i£ pint of water, 1 oz. of tincture of ginger. Mode.—Boil the sugar and water until they form a rich syrup, adding the ginger when it boils up. Pare, core and cut the apples into pieces; dip them in cold water to preserve the colour, and boil them in the syrup until transparent; but be careful not to let them break. Put the pieces of apple into jars, pour over the syrup, and carefully exclude the air, by well covering them. It will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes to boil the syrup ; about £ hour to simmer the apples. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Make this in September, October, or November.