202 The Natural History of Fishes. •kind. Their taste is, perhaps, too much inclined to that which is accounted solid and substan- tial ; but they really eat more moderately, even of animal food, than either the French or the Germans. Roast beef or other viands, cooked in the plainest manner, are, with them a sufficient luxury; yet they delight in living well, whilst it is easy to prove how largely their affections are developed by even the prospect of a substantial cheer. In proof of this we will just observe that if a great dinner is to be celebrated, it is not uncommon for the appointed stewards and committee to meet and have a preliminary dinner among themselves, in order to arrange the great one, and after that, to have another dinner to discharge the bill which the great one cost, FISH AS AN ARTICLE OF DIET. 415. FisJi as Food. —As an article of nourishment fish is less satisfying and less stimulating than butchers’ meat. Hence it is often valuable in the sick room, when the stronger kinds of animal food cannot be borne. At the same time, it is a matter of common experience that in fishing-towns where little or no other animal food is taken, the health and vigour of the inhabitants is excellent. The amount of nourishment contained in fish varies with the species. Some of the red-fleshed fish nearly approach butchers’ meat. Chief amongst these is salmon, once a principal article of food in this country. Everyone has heard the tale of the Scotch apprentices, m whose indentures it was customary to insert a clause to the effect that salmon should not be given them more than twice a week. In point of fact, the richness and peculiar flavour of this fish make it ill adapted for daily food The white-fleshed fish, such as whiting, sole, haddock, hake, cod and skate are less nourishing, but more digestible ; and it is said that they do not so soon pall upon the appetite of those who live on fish. The whiting is best suited for the invalid, and next, perhaps, comes the haddock, plaice and sole. Cod, hake and skate are remarkably firm-fleshed and fibrous, and even when in good condition, are somewhat difficult of digestion. The flesh of all these fish contains little fat, but in the liver, especially that of the cod-fish, oil accumulates in great quantity. Fish oil is said to be more easy of digestion than any other kind of fat, and cod- liver oil is therefore commonly given to invalids. In other fish, with flesh more or less white, there is much fat in the tissues. Herrings, pilchards, sprats, eels, lampreys, mackerel are rich and likely to dis- agree with delicate persons. But they are nourishing, and supplying as they do, both fat and flavour at a small cost, they are very largely consumed by the poor. Herring is said to contain more nourishment at a smaller price than any other kind of animal food. 416. Crimping is employed to increase the firmness of the flesh by con- traction of the muscles, in the case of cod, skate, salmon, and some other species. The popular notion that fish must be crimped .while it is alive is erroneous, but it must be done immediately after death, before rigor mortis has set in. It is said that crimped fish keeps longer than fish in its natural state. 417. To Choose Fish.—The first necessity for fish is that it should be fresh. Stiffness and rigidity of the flesh is a sure guide, for rigor mortis passes off in the course of time, and the flesh then becomes flabby. The smell is not a sure guide if the fish has been kept on ice, for it may smell fresh, and yet change directly it is taken from the ice, even within an hour or two. The redness of the gills is a good indication, and the brightness of the eyes, which should not be sunken in the head. A proof of freshness and goodness in most fish is their being covered with scales; if the scales are deficient they may be stale or they may have been knocked about, and then they will not keep.