H34 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. 2518. —RICE CAKE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of ground rice, £ lb. of flour, £ lb. of loaf sugar, 9 eggs, 20 drops of essence of lemon, or the rind of 1 lemon, \ lb. of butter. Mode.—Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs ; whisk them both well, and add to the latter the butter beaten to a cream. Stir in the flour, rice and lemon (if the rind is used, it must be very finely minced), and beat the mixture well; then add the whites of the eggs, beat the cake again for some time, put it into a buttered mould or tin, and bake it for hour. It may be flavoured with essence of almonds, when this is preferred. Time.—Nearly hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 2519. —RICE CAKE. {Another Mode.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, £ lb. of ground rice, £ lb. of sifted sugar, a few drops of essence of lemon. Mode.—Beat twenty minutes ; bake in a buttered shape. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. Seasonable at any time. 2520.—ROCK CAKES. Ingredients.—i lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, | lb. of moist sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, £ glass of brandy or sherry. Mode.—Rub the butter, flour and sugar well together (the flour should be dried); mix in the eggs well beaten, the essence of lemon, and half a glass of brandy or sherry. Drop the cakes upon a baking-tin, and bake for half an hour in a rather quick oven. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 2521.—RUSKS. Ingredients.—402. of butter, 2 oz. of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of brewer’s yeast, 2 lbs. of flour, 4 eggs, 1 quart of milk. Mode.—Mix the yeast with the sugar and a teacupful of warm milk; pour it into the centre of the flour in a deep bowl, and let it rise for an hour in a warm place. The sponge should then be sufficiently light. Mix with it and the rest of the flour the remaining milk, the eggs, and a little salt, beating the whole well with a wooden spoon; then put it into a buttered tin, set it to rise for another hour, then bake in a moderate oven, and when cold cut the cake into thin slices and dry them in a quick oven,