854 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. mixed, line a dish with puff-paste, spread over a layer of any kind of jam that may be preferred, pour in the fixture, and bake the pudding for rather more than half an hour. Time.—Rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1814.-MARMALADE AND VERMICELLI PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 breakfastcupful of vermicelli, 2 tablespooufuls of mar malade, \ lb. of raisins, sugar to taste, 3 eggs, milk. Mode.—Pour some boiling milk on the vermicelli, and let it remain covered for 10 minutes; then beat it with the marmalade, stoned raisins, sugar and beaten eggs; stir all .veil together, put the mixture into a buttered mould, boil for hour, and serve with custard sauce. Time.—1^ hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1815.-MARROW DUMPLINGS. (To Serve with Roust Meat, in Soups, with Salad, &c.) (German Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 oz. of beef marrow, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, 2 penny rolls, 1 teaspoonful of minced onions, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode. —Beat the marrow and butter together to a cream; well whisk the eggs, and add these to the other ingredients. When they are well stirred, put in the rolls, which should previously be well soaked in boiling milk, strained, and beaten up with a fork ; add the remaining ingredients, omitting th6 minced onions where the flavour is disliked, and form the mixture into small round dumplings ; drop these into boiling broth, and let them simmer for about 20 minutes or half an hour. They may be served in soup, with roast meat, or with salad, as in Germany, where they are more frequently sent to table than in this county. They are very good. Time.—20 minutes to £ hour. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. 1816.—BAKED OR BOILED MARROW PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ pint of bread-crumbs, i£ pint of milk, 6 oz. of marrow, 4 eggs, 4 lb. of raisins or currants, or 2 oz. of each ; sugar and grated nut- meg to taste.