Violet Powder. J5r7 3374.—TO CLEAN COMBS. If it can be avoided, never wash combs, as the water often makes the teeth split, and the tortoiseshell or horn of which they are made, rough. Small brushes, manufactured purposely for cleaning combs, may be pur- chased at a trifling cost; with this the comb should be well brushed, and afterwards wiped with a cloth or towel. 3375-—TO MAKE THE HANDS SOFT AND WHITE. Put a pinch of powdered alum into a basin and break into it the white of an egg. Mix this up and spread over the hands just before retiring. The hands should have been previously washed in hot water and tho- roughly dried. A little borax in the water used for washing the hands is an excellent thing, as also is dry oatmeal rubbed on after washing. 3376—CHAPPED HANDS. If the hands are washed in soft water with the best honey soap, and well rubbed dry with a soft towel, they need never be chapped. It is generally imperfect and careless washing which causes this inconvenience. When the hands are badly chapped, rub them two or three times a day with lemon-juice, or rub them over occasionally with an ointment made of fresh hog’s-lard washed in rose or elder-flower water, a spoonful of honey, two spoonfuls of fine oatmeal well beaten up with the yolks of two new- laid eggs; or a useful mash for chapped hands may be made by adding 14 grains of sulphuric acid to 1 pint of rose-water and £ oz. of oil of almonds, well shaken together, and when used diluted with a little water. 3377.—ANTI-FRECKLE LOTION. Ingredients.—2 oz. of tincture of benzoin, 1 oz. of tincture of tolu, | drachm of oil of rosemary. Mode.—Mix the ingredients well in a corked bottle. When required for use, add a teaspoonful of the mixture to a wineglassful of water, and apply the lotion where required night and morning, gently dabbing it in with a soft linen cloth. 3378—VIOLET POWDER. Ingredients.—6 oz. of the best starch, 2 drachms of powdered orris- root. Mode.—Reduce the starch to the very finest powder, and sift it through a piece of muslin; then rub into it the orris-root. This powder can be tinted with rose-pink or a little stone-blue. It can also, if desired, be