214 Recipes for Cooking Fish. and round near the tail, when the hollow behind the head is deep, and when the sides are undulated as if they were ribbed. The glutinous parts about the head lose their delicate flavour after the fish has been twenty-four hours out of the water. The great point by which the cod should be judged is the firmuess of its flesh ; and although the cod is not firm when it is alive, its quality may be arrived at by pressing the finger into the flesh. If this rises immediately the fish is good, if not, it is stale. Another sign of its goodness is, if the fish, when it is cut, exhibits a bronze appearance, like the silver-side of a round of beef. When this is the case, the flesh will be firm when cooked. Stiffness in a cod, or in any other fish, is a sure sign of freshness, though not always of quality. Sometimes, codfish, though exhibiting signs of rough usage, will eat much better than those with red gills, so strongly recommended by many cookery-books. This appear- ance is generally caused by the fish having been knocked about at sea, in the well-boats in which they are conveyed from the fishing-grounds to market. 437.—SALT FISH IN CREAM. {Fr.—Morue a la Creme.) Ingredients.—Salt fish, I quart of water, 1 pint of new milk or cream, 1 spoonful of flour, butter the size of a large walnut, and pepper to taste. Mode.—Tear the fish into small strips wash clean and put into a pan with the water. Let it simmer £ hour, pour off the water, and add the milk or cream; when this comes to a boil thicken with the flour. Let it boil 5 minutes; add a good-sized piece of butter and a little pepper. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, with cream, 2s. 6d. Seasonable in Lent. Sufficient for 6 persons. 438.—SALT FISH & PARSNIPS. {Fr.—Morue aux Panais.) Ingredients.—Take one dozen tender young parsnips, 2 lbs. of salt cod-fish, 2 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of flour, 2 eggs, 1 wineglass of vinegar pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Soak the fish overnight, and boil it until tender, putting it over the fire, in cold water. Boil the parsnips till tender. Boil the eggs very hard. When cooked, split the parsnips in halves, and put round the edge of a flat dish. Drain the fish and remove the skin and large bones. Put it in the middle of the dish, and place it where it will keep hot while the sauce is being prepared. Mix the butter and flour to a perfectly smooth paste, and stir in gradually £ pint of water and the vinegar, boiling hot. Stir over the fire about 10 minutes. Chop the eggs and add to the sauce. Pour all over the fish and parsnips, and serve very hot The same dish may be prepared with carrots or potatoes, or all three of the vegetables in the same dish. Time.—45 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. Seasonable in Lent.