ro32 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. fuls of allspice. 2 teaspoonfuls of whole black pepper. 2235. —PICKLED ONIONS. (F/.— Oignons Marines.) Ingredients.—I gallon of pickling onions, salt and water, milk; to each £ gallon of vinegar, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, J teaspoonful of cayenne, 1 oz. of allspice, x oz. of whole black pepper, £ oz. of whole nutmeg bruised, 8 cloves, ^ oz. of mace. Mode.—Gather the onions, which should not be too small, when tney are quite dry and ripe; wipe off the dirt, but do not pare them; make a strong solution of salt and water, into which put the onions, and change this, morning and night, for 3 days, and save the last brine they are put in. Then take the outside skin off, and put them into a tin saucepan capable of holding them all, as they are always better done together. Now take equal quantities of milk and the last salt and water the onions were in, and pour this to them; to this add 2 large spoonfuls of salt, put them over the fire and watch them very attentively. Keep constantly turning the onions about with a wooden skimmer, those at the bottom to the top, and vice versa; and let the milk and water run through the holes of the skimmer. Remember, the onions must never boil, for if they do they will be good for nothing; and they should be quite transparent. Keep the onions stirred for a few minutes, and, in stirring them, be particular not to break them. Then have ready a pan with a colander, into which turn the onions to drain, covering them with a cloth to keep in the steam. Place on a table an old cloth 2 or 3 times double; put the onions on it when quite hot, and over them an old piece of blanket; cover this closely over them, to keep in the steam. Let them remain till the next day, when they will be quite cold, and look yellow and shrivelled; take off the shrivelled skins, when they should be as white as snow. Put them in a pan, make a pickle of vinegar and the remaining ingredients, boil all these up, and pour hot over the onions in the pan. Cover very closely to keep in all the steam, and let them stand till the following day, when they will be quite cold. Put them into jars or bottles, well bunged, and a table- spoonful of the best olive-oil on the top of each jar or bottle. Tie them down with bladder, and let them stand in a cool place for a month or six weeks, when they will be fit for use. They should be beautifully white, and eat crisp, without the least softness, and will keep good many months. Time.—5 days. Average Cost, is. xod. Seasonable from the middle of J uly to the end of August. 2236. —PICKLED ONIONS. (Fr.—Oignons Marines.) (A very Simple Method, and exceedingly Good.) Ingredients.—Pickling onions ; to each quart of vinegar, 2 teaspoon-