402 Recipes for Cooking Beef. 897.—TO DRESS BEEF KIDNEY. (Fr.—Rognon de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—1 kidney, clarified butter, pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of highly-seasoned gravy, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, £ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Cut the kidney into neat slices, put it into warm water to soak for 2 hours, and change the water 2 or 3 times; then put it on a clean cloth to dry the water from it and lay it in a frying-pan with some clari- fied butter, and fry it of a nice brown; season each side with pepper and salt, put it round the dish, and the gravy in the middle. Before pouring the gravy into the dish, add the lemon-juice and sugar. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes. Average Cost, is. each. Seasonable at any time. 898.-BEEF KIDNEY. (Fr.—Rognon de Boeuf au Vin Blanc.) Ingredients.—1 kidney, I dessertspoonful of minced parsley, 1 tea- spoonful of minced shalot, salt and pepper to taste, \ pint of gravy, No. 623, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry. Mode.—Take off a little of the kidney fat, mince it very fine, and put it in a frying-pan; slice the kidney, sprinkle over it parsley and shalots in the above proportion, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and fry it of a nice brown. When it is done enough, dredge over a little flour, and pour in the gravy and sherry. Let it just simmer, but not boil any more, or the kidney would harden ; serve very hot, and garnish with croutons. Where the flavour of the shalot is disliked, it may be omitted, and a small quantity of savoury herbs substituted for it. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, according to the thickness of the slices. Average Cost, is. each. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. 899.—BEEF KIDNEY. (Fr.-Rognon.) (A more Simple Method.) Mode.—Cut the kidney into thin slices, flour them, and fry of a nice brown. When done, make a gravy in the pan by pouring away the fat, putting in a small piece of butter, £ pint of boiling water, pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Let the gravy just boil up, pour over the kidney and serve.