ri88 General Observations on Beverages. WINES, &c. 2653. Keeping Wines.—Uniformity of temperature in the cellar is ot the greatest importance. The cooler the cellar the better; you are not likely to find one too cold for such wines as champagnes and hocks. Ports, sherries and clarets require a medium temperature, say about 50° Fahrenheit; while madeiras, burgundies and sauternes will bear 6o° as their average temperature. The less the range in temperature the better for all wines. A cellar always too warm is preferable to one that is sometimes hot and sometimes cold. A damp or badly ventilated cellar is prejudicial, especially to effervescing wines, as it rusts the wires and rots the strings which should secure the corks. 2654. Decanting Wines.—This should always be done with great care. Some wines throw a deposit along the whole length of the side of the bottle as it lies in its bin. Such wines should be brought from the cellar and stood upright for a day or two before drinking them. The deposit thus falls to the bottom, or punt, of the bottle, and can be left there by not decanting quite all its contents. If any of this sediment is allowed to pass over into the decanter, it will render the wine cloudy and thick, and will displease the palate as well as the eye, for it will give a flat taste to the wine. 2655. Port and Claret.—Other wines, notably port and clarets, coat the sides of the bottle on which they lie with a dark film, which in some cases adheres to the glass, but more frequently flakes off with a slight jar. These wines should, where it is practicable, be decanted in the cellar, so as to involve their not being carried farther than is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, each bottle should be brought to the decanting table in a separate basket, lying therein in nearly the same position as that in which it was found in the bin, but with the neck a little higher ; the cork should then be removed with a lever or screw corkscrew and the wine poured into its decanter by steadily and slowly elevating the basket at the punt-end. By this means the Aim, or the " crust,” as it is technically called, is left adhering to the bottle. 2656. Warming Wines.—When certain wines, particularly clarets and madeira, are required in a hurry and have to be brought from a cold cellar, it is a good plan to warm the decanter before pouring the wine into it. When time permits, the decanters can be placed before a fire in the fender. A more expeditious way is to plunge the empty decanters into a pail of warm water ; if, after decanting, the wine is found to be still too cold, the full decanter can then be held in the warm water for a sufficiently long time to bring it to the required temperature. As this temperature varies with the seasons, it is useless to give thermometrical observations. Practice will produce better results than hard and fast rules. An experienced bath-maker will tell by the hand in the water when your bath is at the heat that you have expressed your wish to have it. And so it is with the butler. 2657. Icing Wines.—If you happen to possess a rich wine, which is rather more luscious than you care to drink, by icing it you will render it more palatable. Or if it be a highly flavoured wine, the character of which is too “prononce” to please you, it may be toned down and the flavour subdued by icing it. But for fine wines possessing delicate bouquet, our opinion of icing them corre- sponds with the German gentleman’s views about matrimony, when he said ‘‘Wives ist de devil.” Icing simply means ruining such wines as these, and should never on any account be permitted. Tcing has doubtless its advantages in the case of wines of inferior qualitypas it