Marketing. Accounts. 5 Thrives against hope, and, in the rudest scene, Storms but enliven its unfading green, Exub'rant is the shadow it supplies, Its fruit on earth, its growth above the skies. Visiting the houses of the poor is the only practical way really to understand the actual state of each family ; and fortunately at the present lime it is customary—we had almost said fashion- able—for the well to-do to spend some of their superfluous time in visiting their poorer neigh- bours, in the Metropolis and other large cities as well as in country towns and rural districts. Great advantages may result from visits paid to the poor; for there is, unfortunately, much ignorance amongst them witti respect to all household knowledge, and there will be opportuni- ties for advising and instructing them, in a pleasant and unobtrusive manner, in cleanliness, industry, cookery, good management, and the rules of health, nor will the visitors fail to learn much that will greatly benefit them, though in a different way. 12. That the Best Articles are the Cheapest may be laid down as a rule ; and it is desirable, unless an experienced and confidential housekeeper be kept, that the mistress should herself purchase all provisions and stores needed for the house. If the mistress be a young wife, and not accustomed to order things for the house, a little practice and experience will socn teach her who are the best tradespeople to deal with, and what are the best provisions ta buy. Under each particular head of Fish, Meat, Poultry, Game, &c., will be described the proper means of ascertaining the quality of these comestibles. 13. Accounts in Housekeeping should invariably be kept, and kept punctually and precisely. The plan for keeping household accounts which we should recommend would be to enter, that is, write down, in a daily diary every amount paid on each particular day, be it ever so small; then, at the end of a week or month, let these various payments be ranged under their specific heads of Butcher, Baker, &c. ; and thus will be seen the proportions paid to each trades- man, and any week’s or month’s expenses may be contrasted with another. The housekeeping accounts should be balanced not less than once a month— once a week is better; and it should be seen that the money in hand tallies with the account. Judge Haliburton never wrote truer words than when he said— “ No man is rich whose expenditure exceeds his means, and no one is poor whose incomings exceed his outgoings." Once a month it is advisable that the mistress overlook her store of glass and china, marking any breakages on the inventory of these articles. When, in a large establishment, a housekeeper is kept, it will be advisable for the mistress to examine her accounts regularly. Then, any increase of expenditure which may be apparent can easily be explained, and the housekeeper will have the satisfaction of knowing whether her efforts to manage her department well and economically have been successful. 14. Engaging Domestics is one of those duties in which the judgment of the mistress must be keenly exercised. One of the commonest modes of procur- ing servants is to answer advertisements inserted in the newspapers by those who want places; or to insert an advertisement, setting forth the kind of servant that is required. In these advertisements it is well to state whether the house is in town or country, and indicate pretty closely the amount of wages that the mistress proposes to give. There are some respectable registry-offices, where good servants may sometimes be hired. Another plan, and one to be recom- mended under certain conditions, is for the mistress to make inquiry amongst her circle of friends and acquaintances, and her tradespeople. Shopkeepers generally know those in their neighbourhood who are wanting situations, and will communicate with them, when a personal interview with some of them will enable the mistress to form some, idea of the characters of the applicants, and ta suit herself accordingly