Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 634 THE HARE RABBIT. 1328.—STEWED RABBIT, LARDED. (Lapin Barde au Vin Blanc.) Ingredients.—I rabbit, a few strips of bacon, rather more than 1 pint of good broth or stock, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, thickening of butter and flour, 1 glass of sherry. Mode.—Well wash the rabbit, cut it into quarters, lard them with slips of bacon, and fry them ; put them into a stewpan with the broth, herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; simmer gently until the rabbit is tender, then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, add the sherry, give one boil, pour it over the rabbit and serve. Garnish with slices of cut lemon. Time.—Rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, from 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to Feb- ruary. The Hare-Rabbit.—An animal has been introduced to French tables called the "Hare Rabbit,” partaking of the nature, characteristics and qualifications of both the hare and the rabbit. It is highly spoken of, both as regards flesh and flavour ; and is said to be the only hybrid which is able to perpetuate its race. We hope that some enterprising individual will soon secure for English tables what would seem to be a really valuable addition to our other game and poultry dishes; although it will be rather difficult to exactly assign its proper position as within or without the meaning of “ game,” as by law established. Only a few specimens have been seen in England at present, but there is no reason to doubt that our rabbit fanciers will prove equal to the occasion, and cope successfully with our neighbours across the Channel in introducing a new animal serviceable in the kitchen. The Angora Rabbit.—This is one of the handsomest of all rabbits. It takes its name from being an inhabitant of Angora, a city and district of Asia Minor. Like the well- known Angora goat and cat, both of which are valuable on account of the fineness of their wool and fur, this rabbit is prized for its long, waved, silky fur, which, as an article of commerce is highly esteemed. We are not aware whether it is eaten by the inhabitants, and but few specimens have been introduced into England, where, doubtless, the beaut); of its coat would materially suffer from the more humid and less genial character of the climate. To the rabbits of the ancient and mountainous district of Angora the words of the wise man would seem most to apply, ” The conies are but feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks.” The Himalaya Rabbit.—Amidst the mighty Himalaya Himalaya rabbits. mountains, whose peaks are the highest on the globe, the pretty rabbit here portrayed is found: and his colour seems to be like the snow, which, above the altitude of from 13,000 to 16,000 feet, perpetually crowns the summits of these monarchs of the world. It is, at present, a very rare animal in England, but will doubtless be more extensively known in the course of a few years. From the earth- tunnelling powers of this little animal, Martial declares that mankind learned the art of fortifications, mining and covered ioadsr. ANGORA RABBIT.