526 General Observations on the Common Hog. 1154. The Great Quality first sough t for in a Hog is a capacious stomach, and next, a healthy power of digestion; for the greater the quantity he can eat, and the more rapidly he can digest what he has eaten, the more quickly will he fatten; and the faster he can be made to increase in flesh, without a material increase of bone, the better is the breed considered, and the more valuable the animal. In the usual order of nature, the development of flesh and enlargement of bone proceed together; but here the object is to outstrip the growth of the bones by the quicker development of their fleshy covering. 1155. The Chief Points sought for in the Choice of a Hog are breadth of chest, depth of carcass, width of loin, chine and ribs, compactness of form, docility, cheerfulness, and general beauty of appearance. The head in a well-bred hog must not be too long, the forehead narrow and convex, cheeks full, snout fine, mouth small, eyes small and quick, ears short, thin and sharp, pendulous, and pointing forwa>",s; neck full and broad, particularly on the BERKSHIRE SOW, ESSEX SOW. top, where it should join very broad shoulders ; the ribs, loins and haunch should be in a uniform line, and the tail well set, neither too high nor too low ; at the same time the back is to be straight or slightly curved, the chest deep, broad and prominent, the legs short and thick; the belly, when well fattened, should nearly touch the ground, the hair be long, thin, fine, and having few bristles, and whatever the colour, uniform, either white, black or blue; but not spotted, speckled, brindled or sandy. Such are the features and requisites that, among breeders and judges, constitute the beau ideal of a perfect pig. 1156. The Berkshire Pig is the best known and most esteemed of all our English domestic breeds, and so highly is it regarded, that even the varieties of the stock are in as great estimation as the parent breed itself. The characteristics of the Berkshire hog are, that it has a tawny colour, spotted with black, large ears hanging over the eyes, a thick, close and well-made body, legs short and small in the bone; that it feeds up to a great weight, fattens quickly, and is good either for pork or bacon. The New or Improved Berkshire possesses all the above qualities, but is infinitely more prone to fatten, while the