Clear and Thick Soups. 131 ness.'1 This is as true to-day as a century ago, as true in the smallest kitchen as in the public establishments where Rumford’s experiments were carried out, but how far are we from recognising the truth ! The average cook imagines that the goodness of a soup depends upon the weight of meat she puts into it and upon the size of the fire over which she boils it. 264. Good soup makers.—We hear often of a cook who professes to be a good soup maker. Nothing is easier than for every cook to become good in this department, but she must remember a few facts and act upon them. i. That long slow cooking is essential for most soups, and that most recipes give the minimum of time possible, not the maximum desirable. 2. That soup can be made of anything—fish, flesh, fruit or flour, and that the economical housewife uses what she has at hand with a seasoning of common-sense. 3. That a com- bination of many things produces generally a better result than the use of one or two materials only, the value of which fact is great from the point of view of using scraps. 265. Clear and thick soups.—The major part of all soups consists of water ; in it is dissolved and suspended a variable amount of soluble and in- soluble matter. In clear soups there is only water and various substances in solution ; in purees much is dissolved, but much more is incapable of solution. And there are all degrees of clearness and thickness between. Certainly the economic value of soup is greatest when it can be shown that food is made palatable and digestible that would otherwise be wasted ; and it is least when to make it has been used what might better have been otherwise eaten. Therefore let us begin by considering soup made of bones, which are practically unusable in any other way. I say “ practically ’’ unusable, because, no doubt, a certain number of bones find their way to the gelatine manufacturers, and from them travel back to our tables in the form of prepared jellies. These are articles of luxury rather than of daily diet. If any bone is soaked in a solution of weak acid it softens, but keeps its shape and appearance and about a third of its former weight. The same thing happens with the bone from a joint cooked for table. If then the soaked bone is boiled, in time it wholly disappears and nothing is left of it as a bone, though the water it was boiled in sets, or partially sets, into a jelly. This very simple experiment shows that about one-third of every bone is soluble in water, and can by long boiling be brought into such a state that it is fit for food. Or, to put it in another way, in every pound weight of bone there are 50Z. of good food. Allow for the difficulty of getting at the whole of the 5oz. by any household method, and we still have an amount of food in a pound of bone altogether out of proportion with the relative prices of meat and bone. 266. How to extract the gelatine.—The practical question is how to get at it. By long continued boiling at a high temperature. Fast boiling is no good, for a saucepan that “ gallops” only rises to 2120 on a Fahrenheit ther- mometer, and one that simmers rises to exactly the same point. Salt in the water helps a very little. A “digester,” of which there is a picture on page 59, helps more, because in it cooking goes on under pressure. Long continued boiling is the best help of all. Two, four, or six hours is not enough. Boiling must go on until the bone has lost a third of its weight, and until the earthy matter is full of little empty holes where gelatine onee was. No bones should be thrown away until they have been boiled to this state. Boiling should be counted by days instead of hours, for there is no possibility of soup turning sour so long as it keeps boiling. But of that we shall speak again in giving directions for the management of a stock-pot.