958 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. rate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat the yolks and stir them into the souffle batter. Now whisk the whites of the eggs to the firmest possible froth, for on this depends the excellence of the dish; stir them to the other ingredients, and add a few drops of essence if of any flavouring that may be preferred; such as vanilla, ^ I lemon, orange, ginger, &c. &c. Pour the batter into a - ~J souffle-dish, put it immediately into the oven, and bake for about half an hour; then take it out, put the dish into another more ornamental one, such as is made for the purpose; hold a salamander or hot shovel over the souffle, strew it with sugar and send it instantly to table. The secret of making a souffle well is to have the eggs well whisked, but particularly the whites, the oven not too hot, and to send it to table the moment it comes from the oven. If the souffle be ever so well made, and it is allowed to stand before being sent to table, its appearance and goodness will be entirely spoiled. Souffles may be flavoured in various ways and must be named accordingly. Vanilla is one of the most delicate and recherche flavour- ings that can be used for this very fashionable dish. Time.—About ^ hour in the oven; 2 or 3 minutes to hold the sala- mander over. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2047.—RICE SOUFFLE. (Fr.-Souffle de Riz.) Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of ground rice, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, pounded sugar to taste, flavouring of lemon-rind, vanilla, coffee, chocolate or anything that may be preferred, a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mode.—Mix the ground rice with 6 tablespoonfuls of the milk quite smoothly, and put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the milk and butter, and keep stirring it over the fire for about a quarter of an hour, or until the mixture thickens. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the former in a basin, and stir to them the rice and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the souffle ; but add this latter ingredient as sparingly as possible, as the less sugar there is used the lighter will be the souffle. Now whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth or snow; mix them with the other preparation, and pour the whole into a souffle- dish, and put it instantly into the oven ; bake it about half an hour in a moderate oven ; take it out, hold a salamander or hot shovel over the top, sprinkle sifted sugar over it, and send the souffle to table in the dish it was baked in, either with a napkin pinned round, or enclosed in a more ornamental dish. The excellence of this fashionable dish entirely depends on the proper whisking of the whites of the eggs, the manner of baking,