Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 187 Note.—It is necessary to observe, that the turtle prepared a day before it is used, is generally preferable, the flavour being more uniform. Be particular, when you dress a very large turtle, to preserve the green fat (be cautious not to study a very brown colour—the natural green of the fish is preferred by every epicure and true connoisseur) in a separate stewpan, and likewise when the turtle is entirely done, to have as many tureens as you mean to serve each time. You cannot put the whole in a large vessel, for many reasons : first, it will be long in cooling ; secondly, when you take some out, it will break all the rest into rags. If you warm in a bain marie, the turtle will always retain the same taste ; but if you boil it often, it becomes strong, and loses the delicacy of its flavour. The Cost of Turtle Soup.—This is the most expensive soup brought to table. It is sold by the quart—one guinea being the standard price for that quantity. The price of live turtle ranges from 8d. to 2s. per lb., according to supply and demand. When live turtle is dear, many cooks use the tinned turtle, which is killed when caught, and preserved by being put into hermetically-sealed canisters, and so sent over to England. The cost of a tin, containing 2 quarts, or 4 lbs., is about £2, and for a small one, containing the green fat, 7s. 6d. From these about 6 quarts of good soup may be made. Sun-dried turtle is also sold, and answers very well. It needs long stewing, and to be put into some good stock The Green Turtle.—This reptile is found in large numbers on the coasts of all the islands and continents within the tropics, in both the old and new worlds. Their length is often five feet and upwards, and they range in weight from 50 to 500 or 600 lbs. As turtles find a constant supply ot food on the coasts which they frequent, they are not of a quarrel- some disposition, as the submarine meadows in which they pasture vleld plenty for them all. Like other species of amphibia, too, they have the power of living many months without food ; so that they live harmlessly and peaceably together, notwithstanding that they seem to have no common bond of association, but merely assemble In the same places as if entirely by accident. England is mostly supplied with them from the West Indies, whence they are brought alive and in tolerable health. The green turtle is highly prized on account of the delicious quality of its flesh, the fat of the upper and lower shields of the animal being esteemed the richest and most delicate parts. THE TURTLE. The soup, however, is apt to disagree with weak stomachs. As an article ot luxury, the turtle has only come into fashion within the last 100 years, and some hundreds of tureens of turtle soup are served annually at the Lord Mayor's dinner in Guildhall. 383.-HODGE-PODGE. (Fn—Hoche-Pot a I’Anglaise.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 quarts of water, 1 pint of tables beer, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery, pepper and salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put the meat, beer and water in a stewpan; simmer for a few minutes, and skim carefully. Add the vegetables and seasoning; stew gently till the meat is tender. Thicken with butter and flour, and serve with turnips and carrots, or spinach and celery. Time.—3 hours, or rather more. Average Cost, \d. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 12 persons. Table-Beer.—This is nothing more than a weak ale, and is not made so much with a view to strength, as to transparency of colour and an agreeable bitterness of taste. It is, or ought to be, manufactured by the London professional brewers from the best pale malt, or “ amber ” malt. Six barrels are usually drawn from one quarter of malt, with which are mixed 4 or 5 lbs. of hops As a leverage, it Is agreeable when fresh; but it is not adapted to keeping long.