CHAPTER XXX. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 1852. Puddings and Pastry, familiar as they may be, and unim- portant as they may be held in the estimation of some, are yet intimately con- nected with the development of agricultural resources in reference to the cereal grasses. When they began to be made is uncertain ; but we may safely presume that a porridge, the simplest form of pudding, was amongst the first dishes made after discovering a mode of grinding wheat into flour. As to who was the real discoverer of the use of corn we have no knowledge. The traditions of diffe- rent countries ascrioe it to various fabulous personages, whose names it is here unnecessary to introduce. In Egypt, however, corn must have grown abundantly ; for Abraham, and after him Jacob, had recourse to that country for supplies during times of famine. 1653. The Habits of a People, to a great extent, are formed by the climate in which they live, and by the native or cultivated productions in which their country abounds. Thus we find that the agricultural produce of the ancient Egyptians was pretty much the same as that of the present day, and the habits of the people are not materially altered. In Greece, the products cultivated in antiquity were the same kinds of grains and legumes as are cultivated at present, with the vine, the fig, the olive, the apple and other fruits. So with the Romans, and so with other nations. As to the different modes of artificially preparing these to please the taste, it is only necessary to say that they arise from the dis- covery that food so prepared was both more satisfying and more digestible, as well as, to some extent, it may be from the universal desire of novelty, charac- teristic of man in every development of his social condition. Thus has arisen the whole science of Cookery, and thus arose the art of making puddings. The porridge of the Scotch is nothing more than a species of hasty pudding, com- posed of oatmeal, salt and water ; and the “ red pottage ” for which Esau sold his birthright must have been something similar. The barley-gruel of the