German Housewives. 1283 us, often declining this thing or that, without so much as tasting it, simply because it is cooked in a manner different from that to which we have been accustomed. Many a delicious morsel has thus been cast aside, which later on is frequently much appreciated by the very individual who rejected it at first. The best course is to make a point of tasting everything offered to one, and with unprejudiced mind and palate to select the best, find out how the dish is prepared, and try it in one's own home. One thing is certain, that in England cookery in general offers comparatively little variety, and in these days of internationalism we should do well to learn from our foreign neighbours. 2916. Variety of Dishes.—A great contrast is offered to our own in every-day German cookery, for example. Here the soups, roasts, made dishes, salads, game, sweets and cakes, are endless in number and variety. Doubtless there are many dishes, for the goodness of which I can vouch however, which might never find attraction for the British palate. Snail soup, for instance— though not made, be it remarked by the way, from the ordinary snail so common amongst us, but from a peculiarly large, white snail, carefully fattened on flour— might not become a special weakness of ours. Nor might we even become enchanted with the thighs of frogs—a dish generally solely accredited to the French—so delicately prepared and served up in a dainty sauce of a bright golden colour; but English people living in Germany soon take kindly to the nutritious food of the country. The knowledge of cookery runs through all classes, and is an essential part of a girl’s education. German ladies not only give their morning orders to their cook, but supervise personally the preparation of the family meal. Without necessarily themselves putting a hand to the actual cooking, they are careful to watch that ingredients are rightly and properly' mixed, and that stove and oven are of the right temperature. Our acquaintance with these facts makes us often in England regard the Haus- frau as a sort of upper housekeeper, but this is a great mistake, as her extensive knowledge of cookery is only a part of a thorough general education. 2917. A. German housewife cannot be the dupe of her cook through ignorance. A cook is quick indeed to find out whether her mistress is simply capable of giving an order to send up some sort of game or fish, adding, “ with the right sort of sauce, you know,” or whether she knows all about the preparation of the desired article, and quick indeed also is the said cook to take advantage of any ignorance displayed. There is one thing certainly which may, perhaps, account in some degree for the German mistress having her cook under close supervision. The great majority of families belonging to the middle class in Germany, even those vvho may be termed wealthy, live in flats, and consequently have no stairs by which to descend to underground kitchens, or to climb back to their apartments. In the very highest class, daughters take their turn, week about, in super- intending the management, thus learning housekeeping and cooking from early youth, and in the lower class also few indeed are the workmen engaged in out- door employ'ment whose wives do not prepare for them at least a nutritious, hot soup, consisting, it may be, only of vegetables, peas, lentils and the like, but so carefully seasoned with herbs, pepper and salt, all so perfectly blended together that it might satisfy the tastes of the most fastidious, and a dish of smoking potatoes, these latter, too, fragrantly perfumed with delicately-shred onions, fried gold brown in a little butter, bacon fat, or oil. 2918. Germans, being much earlier risers than ourselves, break their fast at a far earlier hour, six o’clock being no uncommon time in private families for the first meal, which, however, is not set out with the same care and attention