Cowslip Wine. 1199 'rilltte.—It will be ready for use in 3 or 4 months. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. per quart. Seasonable.— Make this in July or August. 2678.—TO MAKE CHERRY BRANDY. Ingredients.—Morelia cherries, good brandy ; to every lb. of cherries allow 8 oz. of pounded sugar. Mode.—Have ready some glass bottles, which must be perfectly dry. Ascertain that the cherries are not too ripe and are freshly gathered, and cut off about half of the stalks. Put them into the bottles, with the above proportion of sugar to every pound of fruit; strew this in between the cherries, and, when the bottles are nearly full, pour in sufficient brandy to reach just below the cork. A few peach or apricot kernels will add much to their flavour, or a few blanched bitter almonds. Put corks or bungs into the bottles, tie over them a piece of bladder, and store away in a dry place. The cherries will be fit to eat in 2 or 3 months, and will remain good for years. They are liable to shrivel and become tough if too much sugar be added to them. Average Cost, is. to is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient.—1 lb.of cherries and about £ pint of brandy for a quart bottle. Seasonable in August and September. 2679.-COWSLIP WINE. Ingredients.—To every gallon of water allow 3 lbs. of lump sugar, Che rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, the rind and juice of 1 Seville orange, 1 gallon of cowslip pips. To every 4^ gallons of wine allow 1 bottle of brandy. Mode.—Boil the sugar and water together for half-an-hour, carefully removing all the scum as it rises. Pour this boiling liquor on the orange and lemon-rinds, and the juice, which should be strained ; when milk-warm, add the cowslip pips or flowers, picked from the stalks and seeds; and to 9 gallons of wine 3 tablespoonfuls of good fresh blowers’ yeast. Let it ferment 3 or 4 days ; then put all together in a cask, with the brandy, and let it remain for 2 months, when bottle it off for use. Time.—To be boiled £ hour ; to ferment 3 or 4 days; to remain in the cask 2 months. Average Cost, exclusive of the cowslips, which may be picked in the fields, 2s. 9d. per gallon. Seasonable.—Make this in April or May. 2 R