1126 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. 2498.—LEMON BUNS. Ingredients.—I lb. of butter, £ lb. of sugar, i lb. of flour, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia in J teacupful of milk, a few drops of essence of lemon, or with currants. Mode.—Beat the eggs and milk together and mix thoroughly with the other ingredients. Make into buns, and bake 20 minutes or half an hour in a moderate oven. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. LEMON BUNS. 2499—LINCOLN CAKE. Ingredients.—Take 2 lbs. of flour, I oz. of yeast, 1 lb. of butter, 6 eggs, £ lb. of Malaga raisins, £ lb. of dried currants, £ lb. of sugar, £ oz. of saffron. Mode.—Out of the flour take half a lb., make a hole in the centre, and put in the yeast, mixed up with a little warm (not hot) water; make it into a sponge, and place it well wrapped up, in a warm place. When this leaven has risen sufficiently, which will be known by its having increased in bulk by half, make a hole in the centre of the remaining flour, and put in butter and eggs; work it well together, so as to make a soft sponge, which must be kneaded up twice with the hands; if too stiff, another egg must be added. Cut up and stone the raisins, add the dried currants, sugar, and a glass of water, in which the saffron has been infused; mix all the ingredients well together with the sponge; add the leaven; put it into a well-buttered tin mould, and let the whole stand for an hour or two to rise. When well risen, bake in a moderate oven for an hour or an hour and a quarter. Time.—1 or hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 2500.—LUNCHEON CAKE. Ingredients.—lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, £ oz. of caraway seeds, £ lb. of currants, 6 oz. of moist sugar, 1 oz. of candied peel, 3 eggs, £ pint of milk, 1 small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode,—Rub the butter into the flour until it is quite fine; add the caraway seeds, currants (which should be nicely washed, picked and dried), sugar, and candied peel cut into thin slices: mix these well together, and moisten with the eggs, Which should be well whisked. Boil the milk, and add to it, whilst boiling, the carbonate of soda, which must be well stirred into it, and, with the milk, mix the other ingredients. Butter a tin, pour the cake into it, and bake it in a moderate oven from three-quarters to 1 hour. LUNCHEON CAKE.