492 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. 1078.—BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Mouton.) Ingredients.—Loin of mutton, pepper and salt, a small piece of butter. Mode.—Cut the chops from a well-hung, tender loin of mutton, remove a portion of the fat, and trim them into a nice shape; slightly beat and level them; place the gridiron over a bright, clear fire, rub the bars with a little fat, and lay on the chops. Whilst broiling frequently turn them, and in about 8 minutes they will be done. Season with pepper and salt, dish them on a very hot dish, rub a small piece of butter on each chop, and serve very hot and expeditiously. Time.—About 8 minutes. Average Cost, is. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow I chop to each person. Seasonable at any time. 1079.—CHINA CHILO. Ingredients.—i£ lb. of leg, loin or neck of mutton, 2 onions, 2 lettuces, 1 pint of green peas, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, J pint of water, £ lb. of clarified butter ; when liked, a little cayenne. Mode.—Mince the above quantity of undressed leg, loin or neck of mutton, adding a little of the fat, also minced ; put it into a stewpan with the remaining ingredients, previously shredding the lettuce and onion rather fine ; closely cover the stewpan, after the ingredients have been well stirred, and simmer gently for rather more than 2 hours. Serve in a dish, with a border of rice round, the same as for curry. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from June to August. 1080.—CURRIED MUTTON. (Fr.-Mouton a I’lndienne.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of any joint of cold mutton, 2 onions, i lb. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, salt to taste, J pint of stock or water. M_de.—Slice the onions in thin rings, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, and fry of a light brown ; stir in the curry powder, flour and salt, and mix all well together. Cut the meat into nice thin slices (if there is not sufficient to do this, it may be minced), and add it to the other ingredients ; when well browned, add the stock or gravy, and stew gently for about half an hour. Serve in a dish with a border of boiled