1335 Number of Guests. deserving of notice :—“ Let the number of your guests never exceed twelve, so that the conversation may be general.* Let the temperature of the dining-room be about 68°. Let the dishes be few in number in the first course, but propor- tionally good. The order of food is from the most substantial to the lightest. The order of drinking wine is from the mildest to the most foamy and most perfumed.. To invite a person to your house is to take charge of his happiness so long as he is beneath your roof. The mistress of the house should always be certain that the coffee be excellent ; whilst the master should be answerable for the quality of his wines and liqueurs." Very good advice for the times for which it was written, but in “The age we live in,” there are many more things to be considered. 3040. Dinner Parties.—As we have before observed, “ Man is a dining animal,” and we contend that young people as well as old can really enjoy a dinner party, and that everyone can appreciate a good one—only they involve a greater amount of thought than many are prepared to bestow. Let no one imagine that to give wines and meats of the best and most costly kind, is to ensure one’s guests enjoyment of the same, for there are few of us whose painful experience it has not been to sigh over a dinner, which in itself was irreproachable, and which might have been enjoyable but—was quite the contrary. There are many more things to be considered than the actual dinner itself, if one aspires to be a successful dinner giver, but there is one golden rule which, if everyone observed, would at any rate prevent many failures, and that is our advice to all who entertain, " Keep within your means." We mean this in its broadest sense, not simply not to spend more than one can afford, for many can spare money who cannot give time, and many more can do the former, who have not the room, convenience, or faculty, for entertainment. Dinners, like dresses, want consideration ; a pic- nic may be impromptu, in fact those hastily arranged are very often the most enjoyable, but there is not, or ought not to be (unless for a small unceremonious one), anything impromptu about a dinner. What we wish to imply by keeping within one’s means, is not to entertain to the extreme limit of our resources, and we hope our readers will not consider us impertinent in giving them the following advice:— SUGAR-BASKET FOR DESSERT. 3041. Number of Guests.—Never ask more people than you can com- fortably seat, or than you have servants to wait upon. Think well over your list of guests before you invite them, and plan how you can arrange them at table, so that you can feel beforehand that you can give each guest a companion who will in all probability be a pleasant one, which, if it be a large party, will greatly lessen your responsibilities. It is no use bringing a number of people together who cannot amuse each other—far better is it (although more trouble, perhaps) to have several little dinners to which only kindred spirits need be bidden, than one large one, and even the most gregarious persons will allow that these little dinners are, as a rule, the pleasantest. * We have seen this varied by saying that the number should never exceed that oi the Muses or fall below that of the Graces.