443 Boiled Calf's Head. Mode.—Put the head into boiling water, and let it remain by the side of the fire for 3 or 4 minutes; take it out, hold it by the ear, and with the back of a knife, scrape off the hair (should it not come off easily, dip the head again into boiling water). When perfectly clean, take the eyes out, cut off the ears, and remove the brain, which soak for an hour in warm water. Put the head into hot water to soak for a few minutes, to make it look white, and then have ready a stewpan, into which lay the head ; cover it with cold water, and bring it gradually to boil. Remove the scum, and add a little salt, which assists to throw it up. Simmer it very gently, from 2^ to 3 hours, and when nearly done, boil the brains for a quarter of an hour; skin and chop them, not too finely, and add a teaspoonful of minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Season with pepper and salt and stir the brains, parsley, &c., into about 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; add the lemon-juice and cayenne, and keep these hot by the side of the fire. Take up the head, cut out the tongue, skin it, put it on a small dish with the brains round it; sprinkle over the head a few bread-crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley; brown these before the fire, and serve with a tureen of parsley-and-butter, and either boiled bacon, ham, or pickled pork as an accompaniment. Time.—24 to 3 hours. Average Cost, according to the season, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 987.—BOILED CALF’S HEAD. (Fr.—Tete de Veau a la Maitre d’Hotel.) (Without the Skin.) Ingredients.—Calf’s head, water, a little salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—After the head has been thoroughly cleaned, and the brains calf’s head. half a calf’s head. removed, soak it in water to blanch it. Lay the brains also into warm water to soak, and let them remain for about an hour. Put the head U