438 Recipes for Cooking Veal. Seasonable from March to October. them in just sufficient water to cover them, until the bones come easily away. Then pick them out, and after straining the liquor into a clean vessel, put the meat into a pie-dish until the next day. Now cut it down in slices about half an inch thick, lay on them a stiff batter made of egg, flour and bread-crumbs in the above proportion ; season with pepper and salt, and plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard. Fry the slices a nice brown, dry them before the fire for a minute or two, dish them on a napkin, and garnish with tufts of parsley. This should be eaten with melted butter, mustard and vinegar. Be careful to have the lard boiling to set the batter, or the pieces of feet will run about the pan. The liquor the feet were boiled in should be saved, and will be found useful for en- riching gravies, making jellies, &c. Time.—About 3 hours to stew the feet, 10 or 15 minutes to fry them. Average Cost, in full season, is. each. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Note.—This dish can be highly recommended to delicate persons. Colour of Veal.—As whiteness of flesh is considered a great advantage in veal, butchers, in the selection of their calves, are in the habit of examining the inside of their mouths, and noting the colour of their eyes; alleging that, from the signs they there see, they can prognosticate whether the veal will be white or florid. Now that the custom of bleeding calves has been given up, extreme whiteness is not so much sought after. 976.—COLLARED CALF’S HEAD. (Fr.—Tete de Veau Farcie.) Ingredients.—A calfs head, 4 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, 4 blades of pounded mace, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, white pepper to taste, a few thick slices of ham, the yolks of 6 eggs boiled hard. Mode.—Scald the head for a few minutes ; take it out of the water, and with a blunt knife scrape off all the hair. Clean it nicely, divide the head and remove the brains. Boil it tender enough to take out the bones, which will be in about 2 hours. When the head is boned, flatten it on the table, sprinkle over it a thick layer of parsley, then a layer of ham, and then the yolks of the eggs cut into thin rings, and put a seasoning of pounded mace, nutmeg, and white pepper between each layer ; roll the ; head up in a cloth, and tie it up as tightly as possible. Boil it for 4 ' hours, and when it is taken out of the pot, place a heavy weight on the | top, the same as for other collars. Let it remain till cold ; then remove i the cloth and binding, and it will be ready to serve. Time.—Altogether 6 hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 10 persons.