Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. go4 Seasonable from July to March. core is, with the cutter. Throw the slices into the batter; have ready a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping; take out the pieces of apple one by one, put them into the hot lard, and fry a nice brown, turning them when required. When done, lay them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire, to absorb the greasy moisture; then dish on a white d’oyley, piled one above the other ; strew over them some pounded sugar, and serve very hot. The flavour of the fritters would be very much improved by soaking the pieces of apple in a little wine, mixed with sugar and lemon-juice, for 3 or 4 hours before wanted for table ; the batter, also, is better for being mixed some hours before the fritters are made. Time.—About 10 minutes to fry them; 5 minutes to drain them. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to March 1930.—ICED APPLES, OR APPLE HEDGEHOG. (Fr.—Pornmes Meringuees.) Ingredients.—About 3 dozen good boiling apples, £ lb. of sugar, | pint of water, the rind of £ lemon minced very fine, the whites of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, a few sweet almonds. Mode.—Peel and core a dozen of the apples without dividing them, and stew very gently in a lined saucepan with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, and, when tender, lift them very carefully on to a dish. Have ready the remainder of the apples pared, cored, and cut into thin slices; put them into the same syrup with the lemon-peel and boil gently until they are reduced to a marmalade ; they must be kept stirred, to prevent them from burning. Cover the bottom of a dish with some of the marmalade, and over that a layer of the stewed apples, in the insides of which, and between each, place some of the marmalade; then place another layer of apples, and fill up the cavities with marmalade as before, forming the whole into a raised oval shape. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix with them the pounded sugar, and cover the apples very smoothly all over with the icing; blanch and cut each almond into 4 or 5 strips; place these strips at equal distances over the icing, sticking up ; strew over a little rough pounded sugar, and place the dish in a very slow oven, to colour the almonds, and for the apples to get warm through. This entremets may also be served cold, and makes a pretty supper dish. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples. Average Cost, is. gd. to 2s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.