104 Introduction to Cookery. 211. Action of Heat.—The most important results of cookery are to be ascribed to the action of heat upon the various constituents of our food. Many foods that we now eat would become useless to mankind if we must eat them raw. Cooking may not alter the chemical constitution of a food, and yet it may entirely change its practical value to mankind. The change may be nothing that chemical analysis can detect, and yet it is perceptible to every person who eats a dinner. There is no greater mistake than to suppose that the chemical analysis of a food tells us its value. Flesh, and bones, and fat, and heat can be made out of a diet of grass or woody fibre by some warm-blooded animals, but we should starve in the midst of such plenty. Many of the changes wrought by heat are easily explained. Whether albumen is barely coagulated or is hard and horny, whether fibre is shrivelled or swelled, whether gelatine is dry and brittle or dissolved, it does not take a scientific head to discover. But science tells us why these things are, and so enables us to bring our food readily into whatever state we will. Given certain food, one cook so man pulates it that the eaters are well nourished and pleased ; another cook leaves them hungry and discontent. 212. Combination of Foods.—In preparing food we must remember also to combine all necessary foods in a right proportion. Some foods are deficient in one respect, some superabundant in another: a little addition here and there helps digestion and supplies the body with what it needs. All cooks do this in obedience to the natural promptings of the appetite. To rice rich in starch they add butter and cream ; with peas they serve fat bacon ; salt-fish has less nourish- ment than its egg sauce; beef steak is diluted with boiled potatoes. But the customs of the kitchen often err, and we have much to learn here that our artifi- cially stimulated appetites fail to teach us. Not only is the deficient supplied, but the indigestible is removed. Bran from flour, paring from potatoes, cellulose from vegetables go to feed animals whose digestions are stronger than ours and who bring our discarded food into a form more fitted to our powers. Another service that cookery does is to economise our food by heating it. Part of what we eat is used as fuel or heat-giving food—is burnt or oxydised, to keep tv,e heat of our bodies at a certain point. Wherever we live and whatever we do, as long as we are in health, we are always 98° on a Fahrenheit thermometer warm, neither more nor less. When we take cold food some of the heat of the body has to be used to heat it, for the same that when we put fresh coals on the fire the temperature of the room is lowered for a time. So we take our food warm and use coals to do what our food must otherwise do. There are burners that give a very brilliant light with little gas, because the spare heat of the flame is used to heat the gas that is presently to be burnt. We warm our food on pre- cisely the same principle. Very hot food is always unwholesome, but warm food always goes further and is more nourishing than cold. 213. Amount of food.—A day’s ration for a healthy man of average size, doing moderate work, has been reckoned as follows :— Oz. Avoirdupois. I. Water 4^ 2. Albuminoids 3 3- Fats, starch, sugar, &c. 14 4- Salts . . . . I 22| OZ. For a woman, also working, the rations may be somewhat smaller, the propor- tions being the same, but the total about 3 oz. less.