899 Rules for Jelly-Making. it rises to the top of the water and floats there, forming scum .which, beinga solid mass, can be readily removed by straining or skimming. Tc some1 extent any weak solution of albumen clears itself in prolonged boihng,^., soup> and broths that are carefully skimmed. But it is usual to put the whites of eggsmto iellies or soups and to thoroughly mix them with every part of the liqu d cleared Every recipe directs that they shall be thoroughly beaten, m or out of the jelly : we prefer the former method as being better calculated to thoroug y mix the two. When the particles of albumen rise they carry with them to the top all the insoluble matter they meet on their way, and the scum.kfording^y more or less coloured instead of being pure white of the egg Prepared alb is sold in packets, and aspic jelly is sometimes cleared with meat which contains a large proportion of albumen, as well as salts and extrac tTves which give flavour to the jelly. In fact, any albumen answers the purpose and we commonly use white of egg only because it is the most convenient an familiar form. There is little doubt that albumen could be prepared from other substances more cheaply than eggs can be sold. 1921. Rules for Jelly-making.—The following rules for jelly-making are based both on theory and practice. . The white of egg or albumen must be thoroughly mixed with the jelly in every nart while the iel 1 y is cold. , * . P The whole must be made to thoroughly boil, so as to ensure the complete hardening of the scum, but it must not be stirred or shaken after lt bol>s l boils away and reduces too much, a little water can be added to make up the q A little lemon or any other acid assists in the coagulation of the albumen. The jelly-bag or cloth must never be squeezed, as a very slight pressure will force the particles of scum through. _ ., ,,, No starchy or floury matter must get in, as this does not separate itself tro , but joins itself more firmly to, the liquid in cooking, so that once m it cannot be g°Thebag or cloth must be scalded before it is used, partly in order to heat it and so to get the jelly quickly through, chiefly to clean it, and, m the case ot a cloth, to take out any starch that may have been left in from washing. The moulds used for jellies must not be baked. To prepare them they can be scalded, then filled with cold water and used wet or they can be 01 ed. ihe latter is the better plan, if there is no doubt about the freshness of the oil, but the slightest rancid taste would spoil the whole. . Gelatine should always be soaked in cold water till it is thoroughly saturated say, till it is so soft that it will tear with the fingers. In some cases it should be soaked for not less than five or six hours. Use as litle gelatine as Possibl® ■ tbat is to say, never use more than will suffice to make a jelly strong enoug its form when turned out of the mould. The prejudice against gelatine which existed in former years was doubtless caused by persons unacquainted with its qualities using too large a quantity, and producing a jelly, hard tough ana un- palatable, which compared very unfavourably with the delicate jelhes which they had been accustomed to make from calves’ feet, the delicacy of which arose Irom the simple fact that the gelatine derived from calves’feet is s° wea.k t-nal: it is almost impossible to make the jellies too strong. Persons accustomed to gelatine will know that its “ setting” power is very much affected by the tempera- ture. In hot weather and foreign climates a little more gelatine than oral y should be added. 1922. To make Souffles well some practice is necessary. They are by no means always sweet dishes, and although they find a place in this chapter, recipes