Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 826 Seasonable at any tims. Mode.—Cut 9 slices of bread and butter, not very thick, and put them into a pie-dish, with currants between each layer and on the top. Sweeten and flavour the milk, either by infusing a little lemon-peel in it, or by adding a few drops of essence of vanilla ; well whisk the eggs, and stir these to the milk. Strain this over the bread and butter, and bake in a moderate oven for i hour, or rather longer. This pudding may by very much enriched by adding cream, candied peel, or more eggs than stated above. It should not be turned out, but sent to table in the pie-dish, and is better for being made about 2 hours before it is baked. Time.—1 hour, or rather longer. Average Cost, 1 id. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. Butter.—Butter is indispensable in almost all culinary preparations. Good fresh butter, used in moderation, is easily digested ; it is nutritious and fattening, and is far more easily digested than any other of the oleaginous substances sometimes used in its place. 1737-BROWN PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 oz. of flour, 1 oz. of chopped suet, 1 egg, 2 oz. of treacle, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, £ teaspoonful of tartaric acid, teaspoonful of lemon flavouring. Mode.—Mix the tartaric acid and soda with the flour; add the suet, finely chopped, beat the egg in a cup, and add the treacle to it, beating it well for a few minutes ; then add the lemon-flavouring, and mix all thoroughly. Put the mixture into a basin, but do not fill it or tie the pudding down, as it will rise. Steam for 3 hours; serve with wine sauce. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 4d. Seasonable in winter. 1738.—BEIGNETS SOUFFLES. Ingredients.—i pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, r dessertspoonful of white sugar, 3 or 4 eggs, fat to fry, lemon-peel or vanilla to flavour, about £ lb. of flour. Mode.—Boil the butter and water, and stir in enough flour to make the mixture stiff enough to leave the sides of the saucepan, then add the yolks of the eggs and beat it well. When cold, stir in the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and fry in spoonfuls in very hot fat or oil. Serve immediately, with sifted sugar. A slit can be cut in each and a piece of jelly inserted. Cheese is sometime# put in. Of course, in that case, cayenne pepper must be substituted for the sugar. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 persons.