Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 326 7i7.—HORSERADISH SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Raifort.) (To Serve with Roast Beef.) Ingredients.—4 tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, £ teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of made mustard, vinegar. Mode.—Grate the horseradish, and mix it well with the sugar, salt, pepper and mustard ; moisten it with sufficient vinegar to give it the consistency of cream, and serve in a tureen; 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of cream added to the above, very much improve the appearance and flavour of this sauce. To heat it to serve with hot roast beef, put it in a bain marie, or a jar, which place in a saucepan of %\J) .jSjJjf boiling water; make it hot, but do not allow it to ^ jtflllf koil, or ^ cur^e' Note.—This sauce is a great improvement on the old- fashioned way of serving cold scraped horseradish with hot roast beef. The mixing of the cold vinegar with the warm gravy cools and spoils everything on the plate. Of course, with cold meat, the sauce should be served cold. The Horseradish.—This has been, for many years, a favourite accompaniment of roast beef, and is a native of England. It grows wild in wet ground, but has long been cultivated in the garden, and is, occasionally, used in winter salads and in sauces. On account of the great volatility of its oil, it should never be preserved by drying, but should be kept moist by being buried in sand. So rapidly does its volatile oil evaporate, that even when scraped for the table, it almost immediately spoils by exposure to the air. THE HORSERADISH. 7i8.-HORSERADISH SAUCE (Cold.) Ingredients.—1 stick of horseradish, 2 apples, £ pint of vinegar, sugar. Mode.—Boil the apples and let them cool, wash and scrape the horse- radish, then grate it and the apples, and, with a wooden spoon, mix to a smooth paste, adding vinegar and sugar to taste. Time.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. Seasonable in winter. 7i9— ITALIAN SAUCE (Brown). (Fv.—Sauce Italienne.) Ingredients.—A few chopped mushrooms and shalots, ^pint of stock, No. 273; i glass of madeira, the juice of £ lemon, £ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.—Put the stock into a stewpan with the mushrooms, shalots, and Madeira, and stew gently for a quarter of an hour, then add the remaining ingredients, and let them just boil. When the sauce is done enough, put it into another stewpan, and warm it in a bain marie. The