725 Rools and Ttibers. vegetable foods that are eaten with, and to some extent supply the deficiences of, meat. For convenience sake, we may divide these vegetables into four classes: 1, roots and tubers; 2, pulses; 3, leaves and salads; 4, fungi. It is a rough classification, and some vegetables will not fall of themselves into either class, but it serves indifferently well for our present purpose. 1516. Roots and Tubers.—Of roots and tubers the principal one is the potato. Brought from South America by Sir Francis Drake and Sir Walter Raleigh, as everyone knows, it was a long time creeping into public favour, and even in the 18th century we find Bradley, a considerable authority on gardens, writing, “They are of less note than horseradish, radish, scorsonera, beets, skirret, but as they are not without admirers I will not pass them by in silence.” In Mortimer’s “ Garden Kalendar,” published 1708, we are told “ the root is very near the nature of the Jerusalem artichoke, although not so good and whole- some, but it may prove good for swine.” 1517. Popular prejudice.—In Count Rumford’s very interesting and instructive book on “Food,” written about a century ago, from which we have already quoted on several occasions, he tells how, when he had to feed the poor of Munich, the prejudice against potatoes was so strong that he was obliged to prepare them in secret, and to let none of the people know what thickened the soup they liked so well. But when once accustomed to the new food they pre. ferred it to any other soup. Unfortunately, prejudice did not die with the success of Rumford's potatoes a century ago, or we should not have to regret that people nowadays care for no vegetable except potato, and place undue reliance upon that. 1518. Potato as Food.—No doubt much of its popularity is due to its cheapness, its good keeping power, and its unobtrusive flavour. Since the potato disease has come it has not always been as cheap as once it was, but it still remains one 0/ the cheapest, if not the cheapest of foods. We have cheap corn now, and so long as potatoes and corn are the same price per pound, corn is the cheaper of the two. For potatoes are very watery. Three quarters of the weight of every potato is water, and of the remaining quarter, half is starch, there being much less of flesh-forming material than in many other cheap foods. If a man had to live on potatoes alone he must eat many pounds daily weight in order to obtain flesh-formers enough to do even moderate work. The Irish who do live on potatoes add buttermilk to supply what is wanting, and even so consume immense quantities of the vegetable : Dr. E. Smith says 10-^ lbs. daily; 3^ lbs. at each meal. Potato, however, besides starch and water, contains much ash or salt, and is for that reason, an excellent anti-scorbutic. So long as potatoes hold out, sailors at sea escape scurvy, and are not dependent upon their daily rations of lime juice. Our people on land have often to thank Sir Walter Raleigh for such immunity as they enjoy from this class of disease. It is a strange fact that many English people, from one week’s end to another, eat no vegetable except potato, an exotic, acclimatised here at the cost of much pains and perseverance. The potato belongs to the order solanaccce, to which also belong some of the deadliest poisons we possess, and it is often said that the potato also contains a poisonous principle known as solanine. “ If there be a poison present it must be either insignificant in amount or be destroyed by thf^ heat to which the potato is subjected before being sent to the table.” We hear of no ill effects from eating potatoes cooked in their skins, nor from eating potato soup, which is a common dish in almost every country of Central Europe. Potatoes that have been frozen rapidly decompose: this is because by the freezing of the water that they contain t O n *4 a