237 Boiled Mackerel, Time.—J hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 4s. 4d. Seasonable at any time. . Note.—Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee with cream sauce. How the Lobster Feeds.—The pincers of the lobster’s large claws are furnished with nobs, and those of the other are always serrated. With the former, it keeps firm hold of the stalks of sub- marine plants, and with the latter, it cuts and minces its food with great dexterity. The knobbed, or numb claw, as it is called by fishermen, is sometimes on the right and sometimes on the left, indifferently. 496—LING. (Fr.—Lingne.; Ingredients.—I ling, I onion, I stick of celery, parsley, lemon-peel, flour, salt, mace, pepper-corns, £ a pint of stock. Mode.—Cut the fish in pieces, flour them, fry them brown with celery and onion. Add a dessertspoonful of flour, stock, seasoning and flavour- ing, and simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Put the fish on a hot dish and strain the gravy over. Garnish with chopped parsley or hard-boiled egg. Conger takes longer cooking. Most white fish not so long. 497.—BAKED MACKEREL. (Fr.—Maquereau Farci a la Mattre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—4 middling-sized mackerel, a nice delicate forcemeat (see Forcemeat) ; 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Clean the fish, take out the roes, and fill up with forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Flour, and put them in a dish, heads and tails alter- nately, with the roes ; and, between each layer, put some little pieces of butter, and pepper and salt. Bake for half an hour, and either serve with plain melted butter or a mattre d'hotel sauce. Time.—£• hour. Average Cost, for this quantity (exclusive of sauce), 25. Seasonable from April to July. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—Baked mackerel may be dressed in the same way as baked herrings (See No. 485) and may also be stewed in wine. Weight of the Mackerel.—The greatest weight of this fish seldom exceeds 2 lbs., whilst their ordinary leDgth runs between 14 and 20inches. They die almost immediately after they arc taken from their element, and, for a short time, exhibit a phosphoric light. 498.—BOILED MACKEREL. (Fr—Maquereau aux Groseilles aux Tomates.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the inside of the fish thoroughly, and lay it in the kettle with sufficient water to cover it, with salt as above ; do not let it quite boil, as the skin is very liable to split, and that spoils its appearance. By the side of the fire it will be done in io minutes, or when the fin bone is loose. Dish them on a hot napkin, heads and tails alternately, and