539 Boiled Bacon, place the pan oh the fire before the bacon is in it. Turn it 2 or 3 times, and dish it on a very hot dish. Poach the eggs, and slip them on to the bacon without breaking the yolks, and serve quickly. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. to is. per lb. for the primest parts. Sufficient.—Allow 6 eggs for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Fried rashers of bacon, curled, serve as a pretty garnish to many dishes, and for small families, answer very well as a substitute for boiled bacon, to serve with a small dish of poultry, &c. 1183.-BROILED RASHERS OF BACON. (Fr.—Lard Grille.) (A Breakfast Dish.) Mode.—Before purchasing bacon, ascertain that it is perfectly free from rust, which may easily be detected by its yellow colour; and for broiling, the streaked part of the thick flank is generally the most esteemed. Cut it into thin slices, take off the rind, and broil over a nice clear fire ; turn it 2 or 3 times, and serve very hot. Should there be any cold bacon left from the previous day, it answers very well for breakfast, cut into slices, and broiled or fried. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. to IS. per lb. for the primest parts. Seasonable at any time. Note.—When the bacon is cut very thin, the slices may be curled round and fastened by means of small skewers, and fried or toasted before the fire. 1184.—BOILED BACON. (Fr.—Lard Bouilli.) Ingredients.—Bacon; water. Mode.—As bacon is frequently excessively salt, let it be soaked in warm water for an hour or two previous to dressing it ; then pare off the rusty parts, and scrape the under-side and rind as clean as possible. Put it into a saucepan of cold water, let it come gradually to a boil, and as fast as the scum rises to the surface of the water, remove it. Let it simmer very gently until it is thoroughly done; then take it up, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over the bacon a few bread-raspings, and garnish with tufts of cauliflower or Brussels sprouts. When served alone, young and tender broad beans or green peas are the usual accompaniments. Time.—1 lb. of bacon, f hour; 2 lbs., i£ hour. Average Cost, iod. to is. per lb. for the primest parts.