108 Introduction to Cookery„ To test the heat of an oven special thermometers are made. For meat it should be about 300° ; for bread 360°, afterwards lowered : for pastry about the same, the richest pastry requiring the hottest oven. Cooks often test with a sheet of writing paper, which curls up brown in a pastry oven, or with flour, which takes every shade from coffee colour to white, sprinkled on the floor of the oven. Experienced cooks test very accurately with the band. 222. Roasting is the favourite national method of cookery. The immense stone hearths on which huge logs flared up an open chimney were just adapted for this style of cookery, and the open coal fires in vogue until the middle of this century were almost as prodigal of fuel. To roast before the fire could have become a national custom only where fuel was cheap. We now roast in the oven more often than before the fire, but even sc it is not an economical way of cooking, because of the much greater amount of fuel necessary to heat the oven than to boil a saucepan. The waste in roasting is also great, from a third to a quarter of the total weight of a joint being lost in the process, and only a small part of the loss being recoverable in gravy or dripping. Furthermore, it is a method only suited to fleshy pieces of meat, and does not answer at all for sinewy and gelatinous parts, which are generally the least expensive to buy. Against this has to be set the fact that roast meat is agreeable to most persons’ taste, and is generally considered digestible. As in broiling, the object is to harden the surface albumen and so to imprison the juices of the meat. This can only be done by making it very hot for a short time: the heat must afterwards be les- sened by drawing the joint from the fire, or by cooling the oven. The larger the joint the smaller the fire, lest it should be burnt outside before it is enough cooked in, but it should always be hot first, and cool afterwards. In a perfectly roasted joint, the outside albumen should be thoroughly hardened, but inside it should only reach the moderate heat that just coagulates the albumen and swells and softens the fibrine ; cooked more than this, the fibre becomes hard, and separates into bundles that offer an active resistance to teeth and digestive organs. It can scarcely happen to a large joint, but often does to a small one, and this is the reason why a small joint is often dry and hard. It is a sign of good meat and of good roasting to lose little in weight. Generally speaking, the loss is said to be more before the fire than in the oven. Much has been said about the superiority of open roasting, and ventilating doors are put in roasting ovens on the supposition that the difference is chiefly due to a free current of air. Those doors are, at any rate, very useful as heat regulators. Perhaps the ventilation would become less necessary if ovens were kept clean. Any baked food tastes amiss if it has been cooked with a strong flavoured dish, or if fat has been spilt and burnt on the oven floor. Count Rumford invented, just a century ago, the double dripping-pans to hold water beneath, and no oven roasting can be properly done without one of them. The water in the under pan boils and prevents the fat in the upper pan from becoming hotter than boiling water, so that the dripping is not wasted nor burnt, and there is no horrible odour, of fat burning on the floor of the oven. These roasting pans are among the few cooking utensils that economise their own cost in a very short time. 223. Roiling is generally thought to be the easiest, and it is the commonest, of all methods of cooking. Anything can be boiled. To boil any food means to immerse it for a certain time in hot water. It is upon keeping the water at a right heat that the success of the method depends. It is equally hot whether it boils fast or slowly. No one can make water hotter than boiling, but it does not always boil at the same temperature. Our boiling point is marked 212° on a Fahrenheit thermometer, ioo° on a Centigrade, but on a mountain it boils before