Curried Lobster. 277 together, adding the soft part of the lobster; put it on the fire, giving it one boil. Then put in the lobster, and let it simmer 2 minutes. Time.—12 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year. 593.-LOBSTER CURRY. (Fr.—Homard au Kari.) Ingredients.—I lobster, 2 onions, an apple or any sour fruit, x oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, £ a pint of medium stock, No. 273; the juice of £ a lemon. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut it into nice square pieces; fry the onions and fruit of a pale brown in the butter, stir in the curry powder and stock, and slowly simmer till it thickens, when put in the lobster; stew the whole gently for half an hour, and stir occasionally; and just before sending to table, put in the lemon-juice. Serve boiled rice with it, the same as for other curries. Grated cocoa-nut and cocoa- nut milk is an improvement to most curries. They may also be varied by the addition of any fruit or grated carrot. Time.—Altogether, f hour. Average Cost, 3s. Seasonable at any time. 594—LOBSTER CURRY. (From Tinned Lobster.) Ingredients.—4 a tin of lobster, £ a lb. of rice, 1 small onion, £ a small carrot, 1 apple or a piece of rhubarb, or some gooseberries ; £ a lemon, a dessertspoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of flour, £ a pint of water, 1 oz. of butter or dripping. Mode.—Chop the onion and apple, and fry it in the butter till soft but not brown, add the carrot scraped fine, then mix the powder and flour with the water, pour that into the saucepan, and stir till it boils. Let it boil ten minutes or longer, put in the fish and heat it through. Add the lemon the last thing. Serve with border of boiled rice. Any vegetable, or scraped cocoanut, or cocoanut milk, may be added to curry. A tin of salmon or prawns should be curried in the same way. Time.—4 hour. Average Cost, gd. Seasonable at any time. 595—LOBSTER CUTLETS. (Fr,—Croquettes de Homard.) Ingredients.—1 large hen lobster, 1 oz. fresh butter, £ saltspoonful of salt, pounded mace, grated nutmeg, cayenne and white pepper to taste, egg and bread-crumbs.