1476 Women Servants' Duties. no prettier costume than that of a well and correctly dressed servant of the present day. 3270. Late Dinner.— We need not repeat the long instructions already given for laying the dinner-table. At the family dinner, even where no footman waits, the routine will be the same. In most families the cloth is laid with the slips on each side, with napkins, knives, forks, spoons, and wine and finger glasses on all occa- sions. The parlour-maid should ascertain that her plate is in order, glasses free from smears, water-bottles and decanters the same, and every- thing ready on her tray, that she may be able to lay her cloth properly. Few things add more to the neat and comfortable appearance of a dinner- table than well-polished plate ; indeed, the state of the plate is a certain indication of a well-managed or ill-managed household. Nothing is easier than to keep plate in good order, and yet many servants, from stupidity and ignorance, make it the greatest trouble of all things under their care. It should be remembered that it is utterly impossible to make greasy silver take a polish; and that as spoons and forks in daily use are continually in contact with grease, they must require good wash- ing in soap-and-water to remove it. Silver should be washed with a soapy flannel in one water, rinsed in another, and then wiped dry with a dry cloth. The plate so washed may be polished with the plate-rags, as in the directions given:—Once a week all the plate should receive a thorough cleaning with the hartshorn powder, as directed in the recipes for cleaning plate ; and where the housemaid can find time, rubbed every day with the plate-rags. Hartshorn, we may observe, is one of the best possible ingredients for plate-powder in daily use. It leaves on the 9 LINEN PRESS. some time—on the handle of a silver tea- spoon for instance—and he will find it break in that spot with very little pressure. 3271. Waiting at Table. — The parlour-maid should move about the room as noiselessly as possible, anticipating people’s wants by handing them things plate basket. without being asked for them, and alto- gether be as quiet as possible. It will be needless here to repeat what we have already said respecting waiting at table