794 General Observations on Puddings and Pastry. uncertain means. Pepper was the commonest spice, and the old term of a peppercorn rent survives to show how highly it was valued by the landlords of old "times. It was commonly used for spicing over sweet pastry. Ginger was the next commonest, and cloves were occasionally used by the wealthy and luxurious Sugar was commoner and cheaper than spice, but it, too, was costly and difficult to obtain, so that it could not be used in our present lavish way, when we Anglo- Saxons consume 14 lbs. per annum per head of the population. The Latin races are content with 12 lbs. ; the Teutonic with 7 lbs., while the poor of Russia, Poland, Turkey and Greece have but 3 lbs. So it was calculated by Dr.Letheby. 1657. Directions to be observed in making Puddings and Pastry.—To the cook who is fond of classification, puddings are a subject of very great difficulty. The French “ plat doux,” or sweet dish, covers, perhaps, better than any other designation, all that we understand by the term pudding, but even it leaves outside the savoury puddings, such as Yorkshire, pease, and the dumplings peculiar to the several English counties. The sweet course plays a less important part in the national bill of fare in all the Continental countries. In the British Isles in 1862, about 30 lbs. of sugar was consumed in England per head of the population, and the consumption of dried fruit was nearly double that of our nearest competitor. However, it is only as matter of convenience in speaking that so heterogeneous a collection of foods are comprised in the chapter on puddings: properly con- sidered, all puddings come in one of four classes. (1.) Those of which the suet dumpling is the origin. They are greatly dis- guised and overloaded, so that suet and flour is often lost to sight or is replaced by other fats and farinacea. (2.) Those that have eggs and milk as a foundation, batter and custard being the simplest forms. (3.) Variations of sponge or pound cake. (4.) Farinacea, with milk or water and flavouring. It will be seen that these, like all classifications, are somewhat arbitrary. Things that have grown up gradually and naturally, as puddings have, can never be divided by rule into classes like the things artificially made. 1658. A few general remarks respecting the various ingredients of which puddings and pastry are composed may be acceptable, as preliminary to the recipes in this department of Household Management. Flour should be of the best quality, though not necessarily the finest or whitest, for puddings. It is easier to make puff-pastry of the finest flour, and perfectly dry, and sifted before being used ; if in the least damp, the paste made from it may be heavy. It should be kept in a bin made expressly for the purpose, and this bin should be put in a dry cupboard. 1659. Putter, Lard and Suet.—Butter, unless fresh is used, should be washed from the salt, and well squeezed and wrung in a cloth, to get out all he water and butter-milk, which, if left in, is apt to make the paste heavy. For pastry the butter should be of the same consistence as the dough, as it rolls in better. The dough should therefore be stiffer in cold weather than in hot. Lard should be perfectly sweet, which may be ascertained by cutting the bladder through, and, if the knife smells sweet, the lard is good. It can be puri- fied and refined by pouring on it boiling water, and letting it stand till cold. Suet should be finely chopped, perfectly free from skin, and quite sweet ; during the process of chopping it should be lightly dredged with flour, which prevents the pieces from sticking together. Beef or veal kidney suet is to be used if possible, but mutton suet is not always