Salmon and Caper Sauce. 249 all the scum, and let it simmer gently till the fish is done, which will be when the meat separates easily from the bone. Experience alone can teach the cook to fix the time for boiling fish ; but it is especially to be remembered, that it should never be underdressed, as then nothing is more unwholesome. Neither let it remain in the kettle after it is suffi- ciently cooked, as that would render it insipid, watery and colourless. Drain it, and if not wanted for a few minutes, keep it warm by means of warm cloths laid over it. Serve on a hot napkin, garnish with cut lemon and parsley, and send lobster or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter to table with it. A dish of dressed cucumber usually accompanies this fish. Time.—8 minutes to each lb. for large, thick salmon; 6 minutes for thin fish. Average Cost, in full season, is.; sometimes it can be had for 8d., and when dearest as much as 4s. is charged. Seasonable from February to September. Sufficient, £ lb., or rather less, for each person. Note.—Cut lemon should be put on the table with this fish ; and a little of the juice squeezed over it is considered by many persons a most agreeable addition. Boiled peas are also, by some connoisseurs, considered especially adapted to be served with salmon. To Choose Salmon.—To be good, the belly should be firm and thick, which may readily be ascertained by feeling it with the thumb and finger. The circum- stance of this fish having red gills, though given as a standing rule in most cook- ery-books, as a sign of its goodness, is not at all to be relied on, as this quality can be easily given them by art. 529.—SALMON AND CAPER SAUCE. (Fr.—Saumon, Sauce aux Capres.) Ingredients.—2 slices of salmon, \ lb. butter, £ teaspoonful of chopped parsley, i shalot, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Lay the salmon in a baking-dish, place pieces of butter over it, and add the other ingredients, rubbing a little of the seasoning into the fish ; baste it frequently; when done, take it out and drain for a minute or two; lay it in a dish, pour caper sauce over it, and serve. Salmon dressed in this way, with tomato sauce, is very delicious. Time.—About f hour. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Seasonable from April to August. Sufficient for 6 persons. The Migratory Habits of the Salmon.—The instinct with which the salmon revisits its native river, is one of the most curious circumstances in its natural history. As the swallow returns annually to its nest, so it returns to the same spot to deposit its ova. This fact would seem to have been repeatedly proved. M. de Lande fastened a copper ring round a salmon’s tail, and found that, for three successive seasons.it returned to the same place. Dr. Bloch states that gold and silver rings have been attached by Eastern Princes to salmon, to prove that a com- munication existed between the Persian Gulf and the Caspian and Northern Seas, and that the experiment succeeded.