259 Boiled Soles. Time.^20 minutes. Average Cost, is. to 2s. per dozen. Seasonable from October to May. 554.—BAKED SOLES. (Fr.—Sole au Gratin.) Ingredients.—2 soles, 4- lb. of butter, browned bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, lemon-peel, minced parsley, 1 glass of sherry, lemon-juice, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Clean, skin and well wash the fish, and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. Lay them in a large flat baking-dish well buttered, white side uppermost; sprinkle with bread-crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley, or, if it will not hold the two soles, they may each be laid in a dish by itself; but they must not be put one on the top of the other. Melt the butter, and pour it over the whole, and bake for 20 minutes. Take a portion of the gravy that flows from the fish, add the wine, lemon juice, and season- ing, give it one boil, skim, pour it under the fish, and serve. Keep back a few crumbs to sprinkle over the top. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Skate or place may be cooked this way. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, is. to 2s. per lb. For this dish, 2S. 9d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 persons. To Choose Soles..—The fish should be both thick and firm. If the skin is difficult to be taken off, and the flesh looks grey, it is good. The Sole.—This ranks next to the turbot, in point of ex- cellence among our flat fish. It is abundant on the British coasts, but those of the western shores are much superior in the sole. size to those taken on the northern. The finest are caught in Torbay, and frequently weigh 8 or 10 lbs. per pair. Its flesh being firm, white and delicate, is greatly esteemed. The lemon sole, or white sole, is always cheaper than the black, and is a very good fish. 555.—BOILED SOLES. (Fr.-Sole a I’Eau.) Ingredients.—£ lb. salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse and wash the fish, which should be large, carefully; cut off the fins, but do not skin it. Lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient warm water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it gradually come to a boil, and keep it simmering for a few minutes, according to the size of the fish. Dish it on a hot napkin, white side uppermost, after well draining it, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Shrimp or lobster sauce, and plain melted butter, are usually sent to table with this dish. Time.—After the water boils, 7 minutes for a middling-sized sole. Average Cost, is. to 2s. per lb. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, 1 large sole for 3 persons.