CHAPTER IV. THE DUTIES OF THE COOK, THE KITCHEN AND THE SCULLERY-MAIDS. 188. These are so intimately associated that they can hardly be treated of sepa- rately. The cook, however, is at the head of the kitchen ; and in proportion to her possession of the qualities of cleanliness, neatness, order, regularity, and celerity of action, so will her influence appear in the conduct of those who are under her ■ as it is upon her that the whole responsibility of the business of the kitchen rests, whilst the others must lend her both a ready and a willing assist- ance and be especially tidy in their appearance, and active in their movements. In the larger establishments of the middle ages, cooks, with the authority of feudal chiefs, gave their ordfrs from a high chair in which they ensconced themselves and commanded a view of ah that was going on throughout their several domains. Each held a long wooden spoon, with whichYie tasted, without leaving his seat, the various comestibles that were cooking on the stoves and which he frequently used as a rod of punishment on the backs of those whose idle- ness and gluttony too largely predominated over their diligence and temperance. 189. Early Rising .—If, as we have said (3), the quality of early rising be of the first importance to the mistress, what must it be to the servant! Let it, therefore be taken as a long-proved truism, that without it, in every domestic, the effect of all things else, so far as work is concerned, may in a great measure be neutralised In a cook, this quality is most essential; for an hour lost in the morning will keep her toiling, absolutely toiling, all day, to overtake that which might otherwise been achieved with ease. In large establishments, six is a good hour to rise in the summer, and seven in the winter. 190. The Cook’s First Duty, in establishments where it is requisite, should be to set her dough for the breakfast rolls, provided this has not been done on the previous night, and then to engage herself with those numerous little preliminary occupations which may not inappropriately be termed laying out her duties for the day. This will bring it to the breakfast hour of eight, after which, directions must be given, and preparations made, for the different dinners of the household and family. 191. Daily Duties.—In those numerous households where a cook and housemaid only are kept, the general custom is, that the cook should have the charge of the dining-room. The hall, the lamps, and the doorstep are also com- mitted to her care, and any other work there may be on the outside of the house- In the country, the summer-houses, garden-seats and chairs are also under her charge In establishments of this kind, the cook will, after having lighted her kitchen fire, carefully brushed the range, and cleaned the hearth, proceed to prepare for’ breakfast. She will thoroughly rinse the kettle, and filling it with fresh water, will put it on the fire to boil. She will then go to the breakfast- room or parlour, and there make all things ready for the breakfast of the family. Her attention will next be directed to the hall, which she will sweep and wipe ; the kitchen stairs, if there be any, will now be swept; and the hall-mats, which have been removed and shaken, will be again put in their places. The cleaning of the kitchen, pantry, passages, and kitchen stairs must always be over before breakfast so that it may not interfere with the other business of the day. Everything should be ready and the whole house should wear a comfortable aspect when the heads of the house and members of the family make their appearance. Nothing, it may be depended on, will so