M3 Vegetable Soups. again simmer five minutes, taking care to skim it well, and stir into it the boiling milk or cream. Serve with small sippets ot bread fried in butter. Time—i hour. Average Cost, is. iod. per quart. Seasonable from June to October. 2S6. CLEAR ASPARAGUS SOUP. (Fr.—Potage aux Pointes d’Asperges.) Ingiedients. 5 lbs. of lean beef, 3 slices of bacon, £ pint of pale ale, a few leaves of white beet, spinach, 1 cabbage lettuce, a little mint, sorrel, and marjoram, a pint of asparagus-tops, cut small, the crust of 1 French roll, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of water. Mode. Put the beef, cut in pieces and rolled in flour into a stewpan, with the bacon at the bottom ; cover it close, and set it on a slow fire, stirring it now and then till the gravy is drawn. Put in the water and ale, and season to taste with pepper and salt, and let it stew gently for 2 hours; then strain the liquor, and take off the fat, and add the white beet; spinach, cabbage lettuce and mint, sorrel and sweet marjoram, pounded. Let these boil up in the liquor, then put in the asparagus-tops, cut small, and allow them to boil till all is tender. Serve hot, with the crust of the French roll cut into small rounds or squares in the dish. Time.—Altogether 3 hours. Average Cost, per quart, 3s. Seasonable from May to August. Sufficient for 8 persons. 287. ASPARAGUS SOUP. (Fn—Pur6e d’Asperges.) Ingredients.—pint of split peas, a teacupful of gravy, 4 young onions, 1 lettuce cut small, | a head of celery, £ a pint of asparagus, cut small, ^ a pint of cream, 3 quarts of water. Mode. Boil the peas, and rub them through a sieve > add the gravy, and then stew by themselves the celery, onions, lettuce and asparagus, with the water. After this, stew all together, and add the colouring and cream, and serve. Time. Peas hours, vegetables x hour ; altogether 4 hours. Average Cost, is. per quart. Aspaxagus.-The ancients called all the sprouts of young vegetables embracing natae' Wh‘Ch is now Hmited t0 a particular species, i They are orfJinaUvmosif’asparagus,cardoon, rampion and sea-kale.-1 eus may stilf be fotmd^n^ Sea‘=?ast plants i,,and.in this state, aspara- ASPARAGUS. BritaTn y u ;* , °? th®, northern a* well as southern shores of tears any resemblance?o 7* \onpon’sPa^owgra.ss; and, in its cultivated form, hardly markeT'at^onlake'and^entf^H111?, P1?"!8', Immense quantities of it are raised for the London