Hashed Partridges. 69? the gravy with flour and butter, add the ketchup and port, let it boil for about ten minutes, strain it through a sieve over the hare, and serve. A few fried forcemeat balls should be added at the moment of serving, or, instead of frying them, they may be stewed in the gravy, about ten minutes before the hare is wanted for table. Do not omit to serve red-currant jelly with it. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average Cost, 5s. 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to the end of February. Note.—Should there be any left, re-warm it the next day by putting the hare, &c., into a covered jar, and placing this jar in a saucepan of boiling water ; this method prevents a great deal of waste. 1430.-ORTOLANS A LA PROVENCALE. Ingredients.—10 ortolans, 10 large truffles of equal size, forcemeat, No. 629, £ teaspoonful of salt, the same of pepper and sugar, 3 slices of fat bacon, ^ pint of Madeira, £ pint of Espagnole sauce, No. 775, £ pint of stock, No. 273. Mode.—Cut off the heads and feet of the ortolans, make a large round hole in each truffle, and fill the hole with forcemeat, No. 428; season the birds with salt, pepper and sugar, and place each ortolan on its back in the truffles. Arrange all in a deep stewpan, and cover with the slices of bacon; add the stock, No. 273, and the Madeira; cover closely, and stew for 25 minutes ; take out the truffles and ortolans, strain the sauce through a fine hair-sieve, let it cool, remove the fat, and reduce it by quiet boiling to half the quantity ; add the Espagnole sauce, and again reduce it to half, or till it clings to the spoon ; strain and serve it separately. Dress the truffles and ortolans high in the centre of the dish, on toast dipped in the sauce. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. to 3s. each ; seldom bought. Sufficient for 10 persons. Seasonable from November to February. 1431.-HASHED PARTRIDGES. (Fr.—Salmis de Perdrix.) Ingredients.—3 young partridges, 3 shalots, a slice of lean ham, 1 carrot, 3 or 4 mushrooms, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 cloves, 6 whole peppers, £ pint of stock, 1 glass of sherry or Madeira, a small lump of sugar. Mode.—After the partridges are plucked and drawn, roast them rather underdone, and cover them with paper, as they should not be browned ; cut them into joints, take off the skin from the wings, legs and breasts ; put these into a 9tewpan, cover them up, and set by until the gravy is