75 7 Broiled Mushrooms. 1585-MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. (Fr.—Champignons a la Casse-Tout.) Ingredients.—Mushrooms, toast, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut a round of bread half an inch thick, and toast it nicely , butter both sides, and place it in a clean baking-sheet or tin ; prepare the mushrooms by preceding recipe, and place them on the toast head down- wards, lightly pepper and salt them, and place a piece of butter the size of a nut on each mushroom, cover them with a finger-glass and let them cook close to the fire for ten or twelve minutes. Slip the toast into a hot dish, but do not remove the glass cover until they are on the table. All the aroma and flavour of the mushrooms are preserved by this method. Time.—12 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. to is. 6d. per lb. Stiff cient.—3 or 4 mushrooms to each person. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in September and October. Culti- vated mushrooms may be had at any time. Note.—The name of this excellent recipe need not deter the careful house- keeper from trying it. With moderate care the glass cover will not crack. In winter it should be rinsed in warm water before using. BROILED MUSHROOMS. 1586.—B ROILED MUSHROOMS. (Fr.—Champignons Grilles.) (A Breakfast, Luncheon, or Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—Mushroom-flaps, pepper and salt, butter, lemon-juice. Mode.—Cleanse the mushrooms by wiping them with a piece of flannel and a little salt: cut off a portion of the stalk, and peel the tops: broil them over a clear fire, turning them once, and arrange them on a very hot dish. Put a small piece of butter on each mushroom, season with pepper and salt, and squeeze over them a few drops of lemon-juice. Place the dish before the fire, and when the butter is melted, serve very hot and quickly. Moderate-sized flaps are better suited to this mode of cooking than buttons ; the latter are better in stews. Time.—10 minutes for medium-sized mushrooms. Average Cost, 8d. to is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 3 or 4 mushrooms to each person. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in September and October ; cultivated mush- rooms may be had at any time. Varieties of the Mushrooms.—The common mushroom found in our pastures is tile Atraricuc 2 C MUSHROOMS.