531 To Choose Bacon. and yet may be of bad quality, too salt, flavourless, or too lean. All hams improve by being kept for a time after they are cured, but it is not possible to keep goods for months and then to sell them for the same price as they would fetch without keeping. The cost of storage room and rent, the chance of loss, the interest on the money so invested, all operate to make a really good and well seasoned ham an expensive article of food. Small dealers, moreover, cannot always afford to lock their money up for any length of time. These are some of the reasons for the prejudice in favour of home-made hams. It is a good plan, in the absence of a proper keeping-place at home, to agree with a pork butcher to take a certain number of home-cured hams, and to let him hang them for some months. For though hams are the better for keeping in a proper place, they will not keep everywhere. They must be perfectly dry, so an ordinary larder will not serve ; and they must not be too hot, so the kitchen is often unsuitable. They must be securely packed in stout paper, or better rag, to keep the flies away. 1170. To Huy Bacon.—In choosing bacon, the samepoints must be observed as to freshness as for ham. As to the joint to be preferred, that depends altogether upon what it is wanted for, whether the object is to follow economy or fashion, whether fat or lean is wished. Streaky bacon, which is generally thought the best for rashers and is sold at a high price, is part of the breast or the flank, exactly that part that is least valued in other animals. The leg cured as bacon and cut square is known as the gammon, and some of the fleshy parts of the leg are bought by those who like a considerable proportion of lean. The fore end or shoulder is the most economical purchase, and can generally be bought at so low. a price that probably it is one of the cheapest forms of animal food. The knuckles or hocks are too bony to be cheap unless they are sold at a very low price, and they always require long and slow boiling. The ribs are not, in the bacon pig sold for so much as the breast, and they are, even at the same price, more advantageous to buy. Large consumers buy a whole side at once ; in that case the fore-end should be used first. 1171. The Best and Most Humane Mode of Hilling all Targe Hogs is to strike them down like a bullock, with the pointed end of a poleaxe, on the forehead, which has the effect of killing the animal at once; all the butcher has then to do is to open the aorta and great arteries, and, laying the animal’s neck over a trough, let out the blood as quickly as possible. The carcass is then to be scalded, either on a board or by immersion in a tub of very hot water, and all the hair and dirt rapidly scraped off, till the skin is made per- fectly white, when it is hung up, opened and dressed, as it is called, in the usual way. It is then allowed to cool, a sheet being thrown around the carcass, to prevent the air from discolouring the newly-cleaned skin. When meant for bacon, the hair is singed instead of being scalded off. In the country, where for ordinary consumption the pork killed for sale is usually both larger and fatter than that supplied to the London consumer, it is customary to remove the skin and fat down to the lean, and, salting that, roast what remains of the joint. Pork goes further, and is consequently a more economical food than other meats, simply because the texture is closer, and there is less waste in the cooking, either in roasting or boiling. The practice in vogue formerly in this country was to cut out the hams, and cure them separately; then to remove the ribs, which were roasted as “ spare-ribs,” and, curing the remainder of the side, call it a “ gammon of bacon.” Small pork to cut for table in joints is cut up, in most places throughout the kingdom, as represented in the engraving. The side is divided with nine ribs to the fore-quarter.