Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 177 gently for two hours. Add the vegetables, cut in strips, and the rice or barley, simmer gently again about | an hour ; remove any grease and add the parsley. The best pieces of the mutton can be served in the broth or on a dish with melted butter. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. Seasonable any time. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. The Sheep.—This animal formed the principal riches of the patriarchs, in the days of old, ■nd, no doubt, multiplied until its species were spread over the greater part of Western Asia, but at what period it was introduced into Britain is not known. It is now found in almost every part of the globe, although, as a domestic animal, it depends almost entirely upon man for its support. Its value, however, amply repays him for whatever care and kindness he may bestow upon it; for, like the ox, there is scarcely a part of it that he cannot convert to some useful purpose. The fleece, which serves it for covering, is appropriated by man to serve the same end to himself, whilst its skin is also applied to various purposes in civilized life. It entrails are used as strings for musical instruments, and its bones are calcined, and employed as tests in the trade of the refiner. Its milk, being thicker than that of the' cow, yields a greater quantity of butter and cheese, and its flesh is among the most wholesome and nutritive that can be eaten. Thomson has beautifully described the appearance of the sheep, when bound to undergo the operation of being shorn of its wool:— 11 Behold, where bound, and of its robe bereft By needy man, that all-depending lord, How meek, how patient, the mild creature lies 1 What softness in its melancholy face, What dumb complaining innocence appears ! ” 365.—OX CHEEK SOUP. (FV.-Soupe deTete de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—An ox-cheek, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 parsnip, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, 3 blades of mace, 4 cloves, a fagot of savoury herbs, 1 bay leaf, a teaspoonful of salt, half that of pepper, browning, the crust of a French roll, 5 quarts of water. Mode.—Lay the ham in the bottom of the stewpan, with the butter ; break the bones of the cheek, wash it clean, and put it on the ham; cut the vegetables small, add them to the other ingredients, and set the whole over a slow fire for a £ of an hour. Now put in the water and simmer gently till it is reduced to 4 quarts; take out the fleshy part of the cheek, and strain the soup into a clean stewpan; thicken with flour, put in a head of sliced celery, and simmer till the celery is tender. If not a good colour, use a little browning. Cut the meat into small square pieces, pour the soup over, and serve with the crust of a French roll in the tureen. A glass of sherry much improves this soup. Time.—3 to 4 hours. Average Cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 persons. The Ox.—Of the quadrupeda animals, the flesh of those that feed upon herbs is the most wholesome and nutritious for human food. In the early ages, the ox was used as a religious sacrifice, and, in the eyes of the Egyptians was deemed so sacred as to be worthy of exalta- tion to represent Taurus, one of the twelve signs of the Zodiac. To this day, the Hindoos venerate the cow, whose flesh is forbidden to be eaten, and whose fat, supposed to have been