Boiled Green Peas. 763 wash them well in cold water, and drain them ; then put them into a saucepan with plenty of fast-boiling water, to which salt and moist sugar have been added in the above proportion ; and about b dozen sprays of freshly gathered mint, which will gives the peas a very nice flavour; let them boil quickly over a brisk fire, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered, and be careful that the smoke does not draw in. When tender, pour them into a colander; put them into a hot vegetable dish, and quite in the centre of the peas place a piece of butter, the size of a walnut. Should the peas be very old and difficult to boil a good colour, a very tiny piece of soda may be thrown in the water previous to putting them in, but this must be very sparingly used, as it causes the peas, when boiled, to have a smashed and broken appearance. With young peas, there is not the slightest occasion to use it. Time.—Young peas, 10 to 15 minutes ; the large sorts, such as marrow- fats, &c., 18 to 24 minutes; old peas b hour. Average Cost, when cheapest, 6d. per peck ; when first in season, is. to is. 5^. per peck. Sufficient.—Allow I peck of unshelled peas for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Origin of the Pea.—All the varieties of garden peas which are cultivated have originated from the Pisum sativum, a native of the south of Europe ; and field peas are varieties of Pisutn arvense. The Everlasting Pea is Latliyrns latifolius, an old favourite in flower-gardens. It is said to yield an abundance of honey to bees, which are remarkably fond of it. In to s country the pea has been grown from time immemorial; but its culture seems to have diminis; ud since the more general introduction of herbage, plants and roots. 1598.—BOILED GREEN PEAS. (Fr.—Petits Pois a la Fran^aise.) Ingredients.—2 quarts of green peas, 3 oz. of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, 6 green onions, flour, a small lump of sugar, £ teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of flour. Mode.—Shell sufficient fresh-gathered peas to fill 2 quarts; put them into cold water, with the above proportions of butter, and stir them about - until they are well covered with the butter; drain them in a colander, and put them in a stewpan, with the parsley and onions ; dredge over them a little flour, stir the peas well, and moisten them with boiling water; boil them quickly over a large fire for 20 minutes, or until there is no liquor remain- ing. Dip a small lump of sugar into some water, that it may soon melt; put it with the peas, to which add half a teaspoonful of salt. Take a piece of butter the size of a walnut, work it together with a teaspoonful of flour, and add this to the peas, which should be boiling when it is put in. Keep shaking the stewpan, and, when the peas are nicely thickened, dress them high in the dish and serve.