Hunter's Beef. 401 895.-TO PREPARE HUNG BEEF. Mode.—This is preserved by salting and drying, either with or with- out smoke. Hang up the beef 3 or 4 days, till it becomes tender, but take care it does not begin to spoil; then salt it in the usual way, either by drysalting or by brine, with bay-salt, brown sugar, saltpetre, and a little pepper and allspice ; afterwards roll it tight in a cloth, and hang it up in a warm, but not hot place, for a fortnight or more, till it is sufficiently hard. If required to have a little of the smoky flavour, it may be hung for some time in a chimney-corner, or smoked in any other way; it will keep a long time. 896.—HUNTER’S BEEF. (Fn—Boeuf au Chasseur.) Ingredients.—For a round of beef weighing 25 lbs. allow 3 oz. of salt- petre, 3 oz. of coarse sugar, 1 oz of cloves, 1 grated nutmeg, £ oz. of all- spice, 1 lb. of salt, £ lb. of bay-salt. Mode.—Let the beef hang for 2 or 3 days, and remove the bone. Pound spices, salt, &c., in the above proportion, and let them be reduced to the finest powder. Put the beef into a pan, rub all the ingredients well into it, and turn and rub it every day for rather more than a fortnight. When it has been sufficiently long in pickle, wash the meat, bind it up securely with tape, and put it into a pan with half a pint of water at the bottom; mince some suet, cover the top of the meat with it, and over the pan put a common crust of flour and water ; bake for 6 hours, and, when cold, remove the paste. Save the gravy that flows from it, as it adds greatly to the flavour of hashes, stews, &c. The beef may be glazed and garnished with meat jelly. Time.—6 hours. Seasonable all the year. Note.—In salting or pickling beef or pork for family consumption, it not being generally required to be kept for a great length of time, a less quantity of salt, and a larger quantity of other matters more adapted to retain mellowness in meat, may be employed, which could not be adopted by the curer of the immense quantities of meat required to be preserved for victualling the shipping of this maritime country. Sugar, which is well known to possess the preserving princi- ple in a very great degree, without the pungency and astringency of salt, may be, and is, very generally used in the preserving of meat for family consumption. Although it acts without corrugating or contracting the fibres of meat, as is the case in the action of salt, and, therefore, does not impair its mellowness, yet its use in sufficient quantities for preservative effect, without the addition of other antiseptics, would impart a flavour not agreeable to the taste of many persons. It may be used, however, together with salt, with the greatest advantage in im- parting mildness and mellowness to cured meat, in a proportion of about one part by weight to four of the mixture; and, perhaps, now that sugar is so much lower in price than it was in former years, one of the obstructions tq its more frequent use is removed.