528 General Observations on the Common Hog. formed, ears slouching and a little downwards, and on the whole, a hardy, pro- fitable animal, and one well disposed to fatten. 1160. The Chinese Pig.—There is no variety of this useful animal that presents such peculiar features as the species known to us as the Chinese pig; and as it is the general belief that to this animal and the Neapolitan hog we are indebted for that remarkable improvement which has taken place in the breeds of the English pig, it is necessary to be minute in the description of this, in all respects, singular animal. The Chinese, in the first place, consists of many varieties, and presents as many forms of body as differences of colour; the best kind, however, has a beautiful white skin, of singular thinness and delicacy ; the hair, too, is perfectly white, and thinly set over the body, with here and there a few bristles. He has a broad snout, short head, eyes bright and fiery, very small fine pink ears, wide cheeks, high chine, with a neck of such immense thick- ness that when the animal is fat it looks like an elongated carcass, a mass of fat, without shape or form, like a feather pillow. The belly is pendent, and CHINESE PIG. WESTPHALIAN BOAR. almost trailing on the ground, the legs very short, and the tail so small as to be little more than rudimentary. It has a ravenous appetite, and will eat anything that the wonderful assimilating powers of its stomach can digest ; and to that capability there seems no limit in the whole range of animal or vegetable nature. The consequence of this perfect and singularly rapid digestion is an unprecedented proneness to obesity, a process of fattening that, once com- menced, goes on with such rapid development that, in a short time, it loses all form, depositing such an amount of fat, that it in fact ceases to have any refuse part or offal, and, beyond the hair on its back and the callous extremity of the snout, the whole carcass is eatable. 116T. JVhen Judiciously Fed on Vegetable Diet, and this obese tendency checked, the flesh of the Chinese pig is extremely delicate and delicious ; but when left to gorge almost exclusively on animal food, it becomes oily, coarse and unpleasant. Perhaps there is no other instance in nature where the effect of rapid and perfect digestion is so well shown as in this animal, which thrives on everything, and turns to the benefit of its physical economy food of the most opposite nature, and of the most unwholesome and offensive