Smoked Meat. 5^7 ago. Centuries ago, even in the more favoured districts of the South of England, there was no food to keep the cattle all the winter, for the grass was scanty, and turnips are a very recent importation. In the autumn everyone killed meat and salted it down for home consumption through the coming months. Fresh meat, winter and summer alike, was what no one could have and no one expected. Even now, fresh mutton in winter is not always to be had in the outlying districts of Scotland, and we see there salt fish, mutton, hains, with only the occasional variation of eggs and a fowl or two. It is not to be regretted if salt meat is driven away from our markets by iresn, for salt draws the juice out of the meat with all its soluble constituents, and at the same time it hardens the fibre of the meat itself, and so makes it less digestible. The brine in which several pieces of meat have been pickled will almost set into a jelly, so much has it extracted from the meat, and all is, of course, wasted. Some say that a third of the meat is lost by salting, or even more. The salt can be drawn out of the meat by soaking it in water, but nothing can restore to it what it has lost. Everyone knows that salted food cannot be used for any length of time without injury to the health. Its smallest drawback is and even this smallest is considerable—that it naturally encourages thirst, and it is allowed that all animals thrive better on moist foods than on dry foods and water. We do not, unfortunately, quench our thirst on any drink so harmless as water, but even if we did, salt foods would be undesirable on this account. The worst is that salted meat has lost its juice with those saline constitue'nts that are not readily supplied except in fresh fruits and vegetables, precisely those foods that are rarest wherever salt meat is most likely to be used, in large towns, cold countries, during the winter season, or at sea. Sailors at sea get rations of lime juice when the supply of vegetables brought from shore comes to an end, not to counteract the effects of the salt, as some suppose, but to bring in another form what the brine has taken away. In Norway, salt food and scurvy are alike common. In our large towns we owe more than we know to the shiploads of oranges that are brought over sea and sold in every street. Salt food is often preserved from air by being stuffed into sausage skins, and potted. Sugar is also frequently used as an antiseptic, generally with salt, for meat. i237. Smoked Meat.—Smoking meat and fish greatly increases its power of keeping. Creosote is an excellent antiseptic, and is sold to paint over meat as a substitute for the lengthy and troublesome process of smoking.