IC24 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. pods in a jar, pour over the vinegar when cold, and exclude them irom the air by means of a wet bladder tied over. 2220.— PICKLED CHERRIES. Ingredients.—Cherries, I gallon of vinegar, 4 lbs. of sugar. Mode.—Remove all specked ones ; put the others into a jar and pour over them hot vinegar and sugar in the above proportions ; see that the fruit is covered. Let it stand a week, then pour off the vinegar; boil and skim, and again pour hot over the fruit. As soon as it is cold, tie down. Time.—7 days. Average Cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable in August and September. 2221.—PICKLED CUCUMBERS. (Fr.— Concombres Marines.) Ingredients.—1 oz. of whole pepper, 1 oz. of bruised ginger ; sufficient vinegar to cover the cucumbers. Mode.—Cut the cucumbers in thick slices, spri’ kle salt over them, and let them remain for 24 hours. The next day drain them well for 6 hours, put them into a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. In a short time, boil up the vinegar again, add pepper and ginger in the above proportion, and instantly cover them up, Tie them down with bladder, and in a few days they will be fit for use. Note.—Cucumber pickle may also be made by slicing it wiih one third the quantity of onions, covering the slices with salt and letting stand all night, then in the morning after draining, dressing it with oil, vinegar and pepper. It will be ready for use in a few days, and will keep crisp for a long time. The best oil and vinegar should be used. 2222.—GERMAN METHOD OF KEEPING CUCUMBERS FOR WINTER USE. Ingredients.—Cucumbers, salt. Mode.—Pare and slice the cucumbers (as for the table), sprinkle well with salt, and let them remain for 24 hours ; strain off the liquor, pack in jars a thick layer of cucum- bers and salt alternately; tie down closely, and, when wanted for use, take out the quantity re- quired, wash them well in fresh water, and dress as usual with pepper, vinegar, and oil. The Cucumber.—Though the melon is far superior in point of flavour to this fruit, yet it is allied to the cucumber, which is known to naturalists as Cucumis sativus. The modern Egyptians, as did the cucumber. their forefathers, still eat it, and others of its class. Cucumbers were observed, too. bv BishoD Heber, beyond the Ganges, in India: and Burckhardt noticed them in Palestine.