134 Soups. water generally dissolves only the surface of the whole bones. By breaking them, however, you can dissolve more, because you multiply their surfaces ; and by reducing them to powder or paste, you can dissolve them entirely ; but you must not grind them dry. We have said (269) that gelatine forms the basis of stock; but this, though very nourishing, is entirely without taste ; and to make the stock savoury and palatable, it must contain flavouring and salts. Of this, gelatine does not contain a particle; and that is the reason why stock made entirely of it is not liked ; but when you add meat or vegetables to the broken or pulverised bones, it makes the stock sufficiently savoury. 270. Stock.—In concluding this part of our subject, the following condensed hints and directions should be attended to in the economy of soup-making:— I. Beef makes the best brown Stock; veal has less colour and taste, and is used for white stock ; whilst mutton sometimes gives it a tallowy smell, far from agreeable, unless the meat has been previously roasted or broiled. Fowls add very little to the flavour of stock, unless they be boiled or roasted. An old fowl has often a flavour more strong than agreeable. Pigeons, when they are old, add the most flavour to it ; and a rabbit or partridge is also a great improvement. From the freshest meat the best stock is obtained. II. If the Meat be boiled solely to make stock, it must be cut up into the smallest possible pieces, put into cold water, and very slowly heated ; but, if it is desired to have stock and a piece of savoury meat as well, it is necessary to put a rather large piece into the stock-pot, say sufficient for two or three days, during which time the stock will keep well in most weathers. Choose the freshest meat, and have it cut as thick as possible ; for if it is a thin, flat piece, it will not look well, and will be very soon spoiled by the boiling. It is, however, impossible to have at once good boiled meat and first-rate stock, as the objects to be attained and the methods of reaching them are diametrically opposed. III. Never wash meat unless obliged, as it deprives its surface of all its juices ; separate it from the bones, then put it into the stock-pot, and for each pound of meat, let there be one quart of water; press it down with the hand, to allow the air which it contains to escape, and which often raises it to the top of the water. IV. Put the Stock-pot on a gentle fire, so that it may heat gradually. The albumen, if it is never heated above 160° Fahr. will dissolve, and will not coagulate, but put into cold water and afterwards cooked at an ordinary temperature of simmering it first dissolves, afterwards coagulates ; and as it is in this state lighter than the liquid, it rises to the surface. It is this which makes the scum. The rising of the hardened albumen has the same effect in clarifying stock as the white of eggs, and as a rule, it may be said that the more scum there is, the clearer will be the stock. Always take care that the fire is very regular. V. Remove the scum when it rises thickly, if you want clear soup, and do not let the stock boil fast, because then one portion of the scum will be dissolved, and the other go to the bottom of the pot; thus rendering it very difficult to obtain a clear broth. If the fire is regular, it will not be necessary to add cold water in order to make the scum rise; but if the fire is too large at first, it will then be necessary to do so. VI. When the stock is well skimmed, and begins to boil, put in salt and vegetables, which may be two or three carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, a bunch of leeks and celery tied together. You can add, according to taste, a piece of cabbage, two or three cloves stuck in an onion, and a tomato. The latter gives a very agreeable flavour to the stock. If fried onion be added, it ought, according to the advice of a famous French chef, to be tied in a little bag ; without this precaution, the colour of the stock is liable to be clouded. VII. By this time we will now suppose that you have chopped the bones which were separated from the meat, and those which were left from the roast meat of