Muffins. iogg with the hands; place them m a layer of flour about two inches thick, on wooden trays, and let them rise again; when this is effected, they each will exhibit a semi-globular shape. Then place them carefully on a hot-plate or stove, and bake them until they are slightly browned, turning them when they are done on one side. Muffins are not easily made, and are more generally purchased than manufactured at home. To toast them, divide the edge of the muffin all round, by pulling it open, to the depth of about an inch, with the fingers. Put it on a toasting-fork, and hold it before a clear fire until one side is nicely browned, but not burnt; turn, and toast it on the other. Do not toast them too quickly, as, if this is done, the middle of the muffin will not be warmed through. When done, divide them by pulling them open; butter them slightly on both sides, put them together again, and cut them into halves ; when sufficient are toasted and buttered, pile them on a very hot dish, and send them very quickly to table. Time.—From 20 minutes to ^ hour to bake them. Average Cost, id. each to buy. Sufficient.—Allow 1 muffin to each person. Seasonable in winter. 2422.—CHESTER MUFFINS. Ingredients.—4 quarts of flour, 2 quarts of milk, 1 teacupful of sugar, 1 of butter, 1 of yeast, 4 eggs, a little salt. Mode.—Mix the butter and sugar together; add the eggs, salt, milk, flour and yeast; let it rise all night. Bake 20 minutes. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. each. Sufficient.—Allow 1 for each person. Seasonable at any time. 2423-CRUMPETS. Ingredients.—To every quart of milk allow oz. of German yeast, a little salt, flour. Mode.—These are made in the same manner as muffins; only, in making the mixture, let it be more like batter than dough. Let it rise for about half-an-hour; pour it into iron rings, which should be ready on a hot-plate; bake them,, and when one side appears done, turn them quickly on the other. To toast them, have ready a very bright crumpets. clear fire; put the crumpet on a toasting-fork, and hold it before the fire, not too close, until it is nicely browned on one side, but do not allow it to blacken. Turn it, and brown tliS other side ; then spread it with good butter, cut it in halves, and, when