245 Boiled Perch. hours, they will be much better than if constantly kept in it. Never put the same water twice to them. 518.-OYSTERS FRIED IN BATTER. (Fr.—Beignets d’Huitres.) Ingredients.—4- a pint of oysters, 2 eggs, £ a pint of milk, sufficient flour to make the batter, pepper and salt to taste; when liked, a little nutmeg ; hot lard. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and lay them on a cloth to drain thoroughly. Break the eggs into a basin, mix the flour with them, add the milk gradually, with nutmeg and seasoning and put the oysters in the batter. Make some lard hot in a deep frying-pan, put in the oysters, one at a time ; when done, take them up with a sharp-pointed skewer, and dish them on a napkin. Fried oysters are frequently used for garnishing boiled fish, and then a few bread- crumbs should be added to the flour. Time.—5 or 6 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 3 persons. Excellence of the English Oyster.—The French assert that the English oysters, which are esteemed the best in Europe, were originally procured from Cancalle Bay, near St. Malo; but they assign no proof of this. It is a fact, however, that the oysters eaten in ancient Rome were nourished in the channel which then parted the Isle of Thanet from England, and which has since been filled up and converted into meadows. 519.—BOILED PERCH. (Fr.—Rerche.) Ingredients.—4 lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Scale the fish, take out the gills and clean it thoroughly ; lay it in boiling water, salted as above, and simmer gently for 10 minutes. If the fish is very large, longer time must be allowed. Garnish with parsley, and serve with plain melted butter, or Dutch sauce. Perch do not preserve so good a flavour when stewed as when dressed in any other way. Time.—Middling-sized perch, 4 hour. Average Cost, 6d. to is. Seasonable from June to February. Note.—Tench may be boiled the same way, and served with the same sauces. The Perch.—This is one of the best, as it is one of the most common of our fresh-water fishes, and is found in nearly all the lakes and rivers in Britain and Ireland, as well as through the whole of Europe within the tem- perate zone. It is extremely voracious, and it has the peculiarity of being gregarious, which is contrary to the nature of all fresh-water fishes of prey. The best season to angle for it is from the beginning of May to the middle of July. Large numbers of this fish are bred in the Hampton Court and Bushey Park ponds, all of which are well ^ supplied with running water and with plenty of food : yet they rarely attain a large size. In Regent’s Park they are also very numerous; but are seldom heavier than three- the perch. quarters of a pound.