832 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. they are thoroughly mixed. Beat up the eggs, moisten the pudding with these and put in the brandy; beat well for a few minutes, then form the mixture into round balls or egg-shaped pieces ; fry these in hot butter or lard, letting them stew in it until thoroughly done, and turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown: drain them on a piece of blotting- paper before the fire, dish and serve with wine sauce. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 puddings. Seasonable at any time. 1753—CRACKER PIE. Ingredients.—1 soda biscuit, rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 teacupful of fine white sugar, short-crust, No. 1679. Mode.—Break the biscuit into small pieces, pour a teacupful of boiling water on it and leave it, close covered, to swell. Then grate on it the yellow rind of the lemon, add the strained juice and the sugar, and beat it well. Then proceed exactly as in making an apple pie, pouring in the above mixture in place of fruit. Sift pounded sugar on the top when the pie is baked. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 3^. without the paste. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1754.—COMARQUES PUDDING. 'i (Excellent.) 1 Ingredients.—5 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, rind of 1 lemon, £ pint of cream, different kinds of preserve. Mode.—Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately and put them into different basins ; stir the flour, sugar and lemon-peel into the yolks; whip the cream very thick and put it on a sieve to harden ; then add it, with the white of the eggs, to the other ingredients and pour the mix- ture into little deep saucers just before putting into the oven. Bake about half an hour. When they are taken out, a very thin layer of different kinds of preserve should be put upon each and they should be piled one above another. A little whipped cream placed here and there on the pudding as a garnish would be found to improve the appearance of this dish. Time.—About £ hour Average Cost, is. 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1755-CURRANT DUMPLINGS. Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, 6 0 z. of suet, \ lb. of currants, rather more than i pint of water.