Io6 Introduction to Cookery. required to burn, wherefore the way to get thin is to eat little or none of these, or, better still, to take plenty of exercise and to get them burnt up. 216. Fat.—Fat, whether it be called butter, cream, dripping, meat, bacon, oil, or by any other name, is necessary for food, and many are the persons that suffer in health from want of it, especially among the poor, who cannot afford the dearer fats or do not know the cheaper, and among the sickly, who cannot—or fancy they cannot—digest fat in any form. So that it be but digested one fat is as good a food as another. Cod-liver oil or cream is the easiest to digest. Fats that are greatly heated decompose, and are always difficult of digestion, which is the reason why fried food often disagrees. Many persons, who cannot eat a lump of fat with meat hot or cold, can eat buttered toast, suet pudding, or lightly fried bacon, or fat in one of the many forms in which the cook can serve it. Fat and starch can replace one another to some extent, but there must be some fat, and it is better in this climate to have some starchy or floury foods. In the coldest countries plants will not grow, and so starch is unknown. 217. Albumenoids is a name that covers albumen and the foods that serve the same purpose as albumen. Sometimes they are spoken of as flesh-formers, or as nitrogenous foods, because they all contain nitrogen, and neither fats, starches, nor sugars do. Nothing that lives and grows is without nitrogen, and so we find it in large or small amounts in all plants as well as all animals. Our supplies of albumenoids, or flesh-formers, come as lean meat, fish, poultry, game, as milk curd or cheese, eggs, gelatine, gluten in flour, fibrine in oats,>and in beans, peas and lentils. Albumen is found in many other foods besides eggs. The blood of many animals contains it, and we have presently to speak of albumen in meat. In most vegetable juices, and in many seeds and nuts we find it also. Fibrine is also both animal and vegetable. In wheat and other corn grains, in meat muscle, we look for our daily supply. Casein is an albumenoid that we find in the curd of milk, and in the pulses, beans, peas and lentils. Vegetable casein is sometimes called legumin, but it was given that name before it was known to be practically the same as animal casein of milk. In China cheese is made of curdled vegetable casein. Gelatine and some substances nearly like it are known as gelatinoids, and they can replace albumen in part, though not all together. 218. Flesh-formers.—It is easy to see that these foods are more costly than the starches, and even than the fats, and that therefore these are the foods that the poorest people suffer from want of. Pulse is the only food rich in albume- noids that can compare with starchy foods for cheapness. On the other hand these are the foods that taste well, and of these many well- to-do persons eat too much They are sometimes called flesh-formers because their chief use is to provide material to build up the body in the growth from childhood to adult life, and to replace material lost in work. It does not, how- ever, follow that the more flesh-formers they eat the bigger the children will grow, or that the more a person swallows after middle life is passed the more he will economise his failing strength. To overload a child with food is the surest way of making him puny and small, and after middle-life if people get heavier it is because they accumulate stores of fat, which is the reverse of an advantage. It is plain from what has been said that we can draw our supplies of food from the animal or the vegetable world as we please. Either gives us the nourishment we need. 219. Six Methods of Cookery are commonly spoken of, and each has its special advantages and rules. Broiling was, we may suppose, the first invented, inasmuch as in its simplest form it consists in holding food before or over a fire until it is heated through.