74^ Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Mode.—Pick away all the dead leaves, and wash the greens well cold water; drain them in a colander, and put them into fast-boiling water, with salt and soda in the above pro- portion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered until tender; and the moment they are done, take them up, or their colour will be spoiled; when well-drained> serve. The great art in cooking greens properly, and to have them a good colour, is to put them into plenty of fast- boiling water, to let them boil very quickly, and to take them up the moment they become tender. If warmed up on the second day in a good bouillon and served very hot, Brussels these sprouts are delicious. Time.—Brocoli sprouts, io to 12 minutes; young greens 10 to 12 minutes ; sprouts, 12 minutes, after the water boils. Seasonable.—Sprouts of various kinds may be had all the year. Green Kale or Borecole.—When colewort, or wild cabbage, is brought into a state of culti- vation, its character becomes greatly improved, although it still retains the loose open leaves, and in this form it is called green kale or borecole. The scientific name is Borecole olcracea acephala, and of it there are many varieties, both as regards the form and colour of the leaves, as well as the height which the plants attain. We may observe that among them are included the thousand-headed, and the cow, or tree, cabbage. 1550.—BOILED CABBAGE. (TV.— Choux au Naturel.) Ingredients.—To each | gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda. Mode.—Pick off all the dead outside leaves, cut off as much of the stalk as possible, and cut the cabbages across twice at the stalk end; if they should be very large, quarter them. Wash them well in cold water, place them in a colander, and drain ; then put them into plenty of fast- boiling water, to which have been added salt and soda in the above pro- portions. Stir them down once or twice in the water, keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly until tender. The instant they are done take them up into a colander, place a plate over them, let them thoroughly drain, dish, cutting them in squares. Time.—Large cabbages, or savoys, ^ to f hour, young summer cabbage, 10 to 12 minutes, after the water boils. Average Cost, id. to 2d. each. Sufficient—1 large one for 4 or 5 persons. They may be chopped after cooking, and have a little butter and vinegar stirred in. Seasonable—Cabbages and sprouts of various kind at any time. The Cabbage Tribe ; their Origin.—Of all the tribes of the Crucifers this is by far the most important. Its scientific name is Brassies, and it contains a collection of plants which, both in themselves and their products, occupy a prominent position in agriculture, commerce and domestic economy. On the cliffs of Dover, and in many places on the coasts of Dorsetshire, Cornwall, and Yorkshire there grows a wild plant, with variously-indented, much-waved, and loose-spreading leaves, of a sea-green colour and large yellow flowers. In spring, the leaves of this plant are collected by the inhabitants, who, after boiling them in two waters, to remove the