Apricot Jam. 987 2128.—COMPOTE OF APRICOTS. (An Elegant Dish.) Ingredients.—£ pint of syrup, No. 2115, 12 green apricots. Mode.—Make the syrup by recipe No. 2115, and, when it is ready, put in the apricots whilst the syrup is boiling. Simmer them very gently until tender, taking care not to let them break; take them out carefully, arrange them on a glass dish, let the syrup cool a little, pour it over the apricots, and when cold, serve. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes to simmer the apricots. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June and July, with green apricots. 2129.-APRICOT JAM OR MARMALADE. Ingredients.— To every lb. of ripe apricots, weighed after being skinned and stoned, allow 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.—Pare the apricots, which should be ripe, as thinly as possible, break them in halves, and remove the stones. Weigh the fruit, and to every lb. allow the same proportion of loaf sugar. Pound the sugar very finely in a mortar, strew it over the apricots, which should be placed on dishes, and let them remain for 12 hours. Break the stones, blanch the kernels, and put them with the sugar and fruit into a preserving-pan. Let these simmer very gently until clear; take out the pieces of apricot singly, as they become so, and, as fast as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Put the apricots into small jars, pour over them the syrup and kernels, cover the jam with pieces of paper dipped in the purest salad-oil, and stretch over the tops of the jars tissue-paper, cut about 2 inches larger, and brushed over with the white of an egg; when dry it will be perfectly hard and air-tight. Time.—12 hours sprinkled with sugar ; about f hour to boil the jam. Average Cost, 9d. per pot. Sufficient.—10 lbs. of fruit for 12 pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in August or September. 2130.—BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, No. 2115, barberries. Mode.—Prepare some small pieces of clean white wood, 3 inches long and a quarter of an inch wide, and tie the fruit to these in nice bunches. Have ready some clear syrup, made by recipe No. 2115 ; put in the bar- berries, and simmer them in it for 2 successive days, boiling them for nearly half an hour each day, and covering them each time with the syrup