298 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. take 1 lb. of good fresh beef suet, which skin, shred and chop very fine •, put it in a mortar and pound it; then add 6 oz. of panada (that is, bread soaked in milk, and boiled till nearly dry) with the suet; pound them well together, and add the veal; season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, quarter teaspoonful of pepper, half that of nutmeg ; work all well together; then add 4 eggs by degrees, continually pounding the contents of the mortar. When well mixed, take a small piece in a spoon, and poach it in some boiling water ; and if it is delicate, firm, and of a good flavour, it is ready for use. 636.-OYSTER FORCEMEAT, FOR ROAST OR BOILED TURKEY. (Fr.—Farce de Huitres.) Ingredients.—i a pint of bread-crumbs, oz. of chopped suet or butter, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, ^ saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, 2 eggs, 18 oysters. Mode.—Grate the bread very fine, and be careful that no large lumps remain; put it into a basin with the suet, which must be very finely minced, or, when butter is used, that must be cut up into small pieces. Add the herbs, also chopped as small as possible, and seasoning; mix all these well together, until the ingredients are thoroughly mingled. Open and beard the oysters, chop them, but not too small, and add them to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, and, with the hand, work ali together until it is smoothly mixed. The turkey should not be stuffed too full: if there should be too much forcemeat, roll it into balls, fry them, and use them as a garnish. Sufficient for 1 turkey. 637.—SAUSAGE-MEAT STUFFING, FOR TURKEY. (Fr.—Farce de Saucisse. Ingredients.—6 oz. of lean pork, 6 oz. of fat pork, both weighed after being chopped (beef suet may be substituted for the latter); 2 oz. of bread- crumbs, 1 small tablespoonful of minced sage, 1 blade of pounded mace, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. Mode.—Chop the meat and fat very finely; mix with them the other ingredients, taking care that the whole is thoroughly incorporated. Moisten with the egg, and the stuffing will be ready for use. Equal quantities of this stuffing and forcemeat No. 627, will be found to answer very well, as the herbs, lemon-peel, &c., in the latter, impart a very delicious flavour to the sausage-meat. As preparations, however, like stuffings and forcemeats, are matters to be decided by individual tastes, they must be left, to a great extent, to the discrimination of the