Egg Sauce. 321 706.—EGG-BALLS. (For Soups and made Dishes.) Ingredients.—8 eggs, a little flour, seasoning to taste of salt. Mode.— Boil 6 eggs for 20 minutes, strip off the shells, take the yolks and pound them in a mortar. Beat the yolks of the 2 uncooked eggs; add them, with a little flour and salt, to those pounded ; mix all well together, and roll into balls. Boil them before they are put into the soup or other dish they may be intended for. Time.—20 minutes to boil the eggs. Average Cost, for this quan- tity, 8 d. Sufficient, 2 dozen balls for 1 tureen of soup. 707.-EGG SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce a I’CEuf.) (For Salt Fish.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, £ pint of melted butter, No. 676 ; when liked, a very little lemon-juice. Mode.—Boil the eggs until quite hard, which will be in about. 20 minutes, and put them into cold water for half an hour. Strip off the shells, chop the eggs into small pieces, not, however, too fine. Make the melted butter very smoothly, by recipe No. 676, and, when boiling, stir in the eggs, and serve very hot. Lemon-juice may be added at pleasure. Time.—20 minutes to boil the eggs. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient, this quantity, for 3 or 4 lbs. of fish. Note.—When a thicker sauce is required, use one or two more eggs to the same quantity of melted butter. 708.—EPICUREAN SAUCE. (For Steaks, Chops, Gravies or Fish.) Ingredients,—I pint of walnut ketchup, £ pint of mushroom ditto, 2 tablespoonfuls of Indian soy, 2 tablespoonfuls of port, i oz. of white pepper, 2 oz. of shalots, ^ oz. of cayenne, £ oz. of cloves, f pint of vinegar. Mode.—Put the whole of the ingredients into a bottle, and let it remain for a fortnight in a warm place, occasionally shaking up the contents. Strain, and bottle off for use. This sauce will be found an agreeable addition to gravies, hashes, stews, &c. Average Cost, for this quantity, is. 6d. Shalot, or Eschalot.—This plant is supposed to have been introduced to England by the Crusaders, who found it growing wild in the vicinity of Ascalon. It is a bulbous root, and when full grown, its leaves wither in July. They ought to be taken up in the autumn, and when dried in the house, will keep till spring. It is called by old authors the “ barren onion,” and is used in sauces and pickles, soups and made dishes, and as an accompaniment to chops and steaks.