9°5 Apple Jelly. I93i.—THICK APPLE JELLY OR MARMALADE. (Fr —Marmelade de Pommes.) [For Entremets or Dessert Dishes.) Ingredients.—Apples; to every lb. of pulp allow \ lb. of sugar, £ a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel. Mode—Peel,core and boil the apples with only sufficient water to prevent them from burning; beat them to a pulp, and to every lb. of pulp allow the above proportion of sugar in lumps. Dip the lumps into water ; put these into a saucepan, and boil till a syrup is thick and can be well skimmed ; then add this syrup to the apple pulp, with the minced lemon-peel, and stir it over a quick fire for about 20 minutes, or until the apples cease to stick to the bottom of the pan. The jelly is then done, and may be poured into moulds which have been previously dipped in water, when it will turn out nicely for dessert or a side-dish; for the latter a little custard should be poured round, and it should be garnished with strips of citron or stuck with blanched almonds. Time.—From £ to \ hour to reduce the apples to a pulp; 20 minutes to boil after the sugar is added. Sufficient.—i| lb. of apples for a small mould. Seasonable from July to March ; but is best in September, October or November. 1932.-CLEAR APPLE JELLY. (Fr.—Gelee de Pommes.) Ingredients.—2 dozen apples, i^pint of spring water; to every pint of juice allow | lb. of loaf sugar, % oz. of gelatine, the rind of | a lemon. Mode.—Pare, core and cut the apples into quarters, and boil them, with the lemon-peel, until tender ; then strain off the apples, and run the juice through a jelly-bag; put the strained juice with the sugar and gelatine, which has been simmered quietly in half a pint of water, into a lined saucepan or preserving-pan ; simmer together for about a quarter of an hour, and put the jelly into moulds. When this jelly is nice and clear, and turned out well, it makes a pretty dish for the supper-table, with a little custard or whipped cream round it; the addition of a little lemon- juice improves the flavour, but it is apt to render the jelly muddy and thick. If required to be kept any length of time, rather a large proportion of sugar must be used.