Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 824 1731.—VERY PLAIN BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients.—Odd pieces of crust or crumb of bread : to every quart allow 4 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 3 oz. of moist sugar, 4 lb. of currants, oz. of butter. Mode.—Break the bread into small pieces, and pour on them as much boiling water as will soak them well. Let these stand till the water is cool ; then press it out, and mash the bread with a fork until it is quite free from lumps. Measure this pulp, and to every quart stir in salt, nutmeg, sugar and currants in the above proportion ; mix all well together and put it into a well-buttered pie-dish. Smooth the surface with the back of a spoon, and place the butter in small pieces over the top, bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half, and serve very hot. Boiling milk substituted for the boiling water would very much improve this pudding. Time.—14 hour. Average Cost, 6J., exclusive of the bread. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1732.—BOILED BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients.—14 pint of milk, f pint of bread-crumbs, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of currants, 4 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mode.—Make the milk boiling, and pour it on the bread-crumbs ; let these remain till cold ; then add the other ingredients, taking care that the eggs are well beaten, and the currants well washed, picked and dried. Beat the pudding well, and put it into a buttered basin; tie it down tightly with a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for an hour and a quarter ; turn it out of the basin and serve with sifted sugar. Any odd pieces or scraps of bread answer for this pudding; but they should be soaked overnight, and, when wanted for use, should have the water well squeezed from them. Time.—14 hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. Bread.—Bread contains, in its composition, in the form of vegetable albumen and vegetable f brine, two of the chief constituents of flesh, and, in its incombustible constituents, the salts which are indispensible for sanguification, of the same quality and in the same proportion as flesh. But flesh contains, besides these, a number of substances which are entirely wanting in vegetablefood : and on these peculiar constituents of flesh depends certain effects, by which it is essentially distinguished from other articles of food. 1733-—BROWN-BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients.—I lb. of brown bread-crumbs, 4 lb. of currants, 4 lb. of suet, 4 lb. of moist sugar, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, grated nutmeg to taste.