Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauce*. nothing to do with any artificial colouring matter, but with the care and skill of the cook, 649. Stock for sauce.—Besides the thickening and the fat, there must be some liquid; in fact, the liquid is the indispensable thing in a sauce. The basis of all gravies and savoury sauces is stock. It may be laid down as a general rule that water should never be used, and that it very seldom need be used. The stock need not always be strong ; it need not even be meat stock. A few scraps of vegetable, an onion, and a few herbs, boiled for an hour, make a stock far better than water ; and a few pieces of skin or gristle, with a small bone from roast meat, provide all that is wanted for an everyday sauce. The trim- mings and skin of fish make excellent stock for a fish sauce. The brown gravy that comes with the dripping from roast meat should be reserved for brown sauces. For first-rate sauces, a free use of well-flavoured stock, consomme, essence of meat, game or poultry, is advised ; but a cook who cannot make good sauce with- out these will not do much better with them. Liebig's and other meat extracts are often useful for sauces, when there is no stock at hand. Many of them will keep for a long time after they are opened, and can be used occasionally when wanted. New or skimmed milk is an improvement to most white sauces, used partly or wholly in place of water. 650. Hatter for sauce.—Good fresh butter is the only fat admissible for first-rate sauces. Inferior, rancid butter is always noticeable, and is not as good as fresh beef dripping or fat. Where economy is studied, it is far better to use less butter, and to get that little good, than to buy a large quantity of cheap cooking butter. Good oil may sometimes replace butter. 651. Well-known sauces.—What is understood by fundamental or foundation sauces are some few that serve as a basis for different kinds of flavour- ing, and are made in quantities, in large kitchens, to combine and re-combine under various names and guises. Such are sauce tourne, abemande sauce, bechamel, &c. This is not at all the same as to allow one and the same sauce and flavour to appear in every course of a dinner, than which nothing is more indicative of an indifferent cook. Sauces should always be varied ; a brown should follow a white, a piquante a mild, and a dish without sauce should follow one with. 652. Flavourings for sauces are so many that it is impossible even to enumerate them all. They are practically the same as those employed for soups. A common fault is to use too few, and to allow one spice or herb to predominate over all the rest. Most flavourings ordinarily used are very inexpensive, and within the reach of everyone who has forethought and is willing to take some pains. It is not possible to give exact recipes for sauces. No two good cooks exactly agree in the flavouring of any sauce. Quantity is always a false guide to flavour. Nothing varies in quality more than spice, which very rapidly loses flavour if it is exposed to the air, and which is often adulterated, especially if it is ground before it is sold. One lemon is half the size of another ; so is one egg. One spoonful of flour has not always the same thickening power, though here there is less margin for error. 653. The preparation and appearance of sauces and gravies are of the highest consequence, and in nothing does the talent and taste of the cook more display itself. Their special adaptability to the various viands they are to accompany cannot be too much studied, in order that they may har- monise and blend with them as perfectly, so to speak, as does a pianoforte accompaniment with the voice of the singer.