Women Servants’ Duties, 1490 should be tolerably thick, and if hollow, the temperature will be more equable. This should range from 6oQ to 65° F., never exceeding the latter. The walls inside are usually covered with Dutch glazed tiles; the flooring also of glazed tiles set in asphalte, to resist water; or of Portland cement. The floor should slope very gently to one side or corner, where there should be an outlet for the water to escape when the floor is flushed ; and the ceiling, lath and plaster, or closely-jointed wood- work, painted. Its architecture will be a matter of fancy; it should have a northern aspect, and a thatched roof is considered most suitable, from the shade and shelter it affords ; and it should contain at least two apartments, besides a cool place for storing away butter. One of the apartments, in which the milk is placed to deposit cream, or to ripen for churn- ing, is usually surrounded by shelves of marble or slate (perforated ones keep the milk freshest], on which the milk-dishes rest; but it will be found a better plan to have a large square or round table of stone in the centre, with a water-tight ledge all round it, in which water may remain in hot weather, or, if some at- tempt at the picturesque is desired, a small fountain might occupy the centre, which would keep the apartment cool and fresh. Round this table the milk-dishes should be ranged ; one shelf, or dresser, of slate or marble, being kept for the various occupations of the dairy-maid ; it will be found a better plan than putting them on shelves and corners against the wall. There should be a funnel or ventilator in the ceiling, communicating with the open air, made to open and shut as required. Double windows are recommended, but of the lattice kind, so that they may open, and with wire-gauze blinds fitted into the opening, and calico blinds, which may be wetted when additional cool- ness is required. The other apartment will be used for churning, washing and scrubbing—in fact, the scullery of the dairy, with a boiler for hot water, and a sink with cold water laid on, which should be plentiful and good. In some dairies a third apartment, or, at least, a cool airy pantry, is required for storing away butter, with shelves of marble or slate, to hold the cream-jars while it is ripening, and where cheeses are made, a fourth becomes necessary. Such is the temple in which the dairy-maid presides : it should be removed both from stable and cowhouse, and larder; no animal smells should come near it, and the drainage should be perfect. 3300. The dairy utensils are not numerous— churns, milk-pails for each cow; hair-sieves, slices of tin, milk-pans, marble dishes for cream for family use, scales and weights, a portable rack for drying the utensils, wooden bowls, butter-mould3 and butter patters, and wooden tubs for washing the utensils, comprising pretty nearly everything. Pails are made of maple-wood or elm, and hooped, or of tin, more or less ornamented. One is required for each cow. The hair-sieve is made of closely-twisted horse-hair, with a rim, through which the milk is strained to remove any hairs which may have dropped from the cow in milking. Milk dishes are shallow basins of glass, of glazed earthenware, or tin, about 16 inches in diameter at top, and 12 at the bottom, and 5 or 6 inches deep, holding about 8 to 10 quarts each when full. Churns are all sorts and sizes, from that MILK-PAIL.