Stone Cream. 959 and the expedition with which it is sent to table. Souffles should be served instantly from the oven, or they will sink, and be nothing more than an ordinary pudding. Time.—About i hour. Average Cost, iod. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2048.—SNOW EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs a la Neige.) (A very Pretty Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—5 eggs, 1 pint of milk, pounded sugar to taste, flavour- ing of vanilla, lemon-rind, or orange-flower water. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely, and the rind of half a lemon. Let this steep by the side of the fire for half an hour, when take out the peel; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, and whisk the former to a perfectly stiff froth, or until there is no liquid remaining; bring the milk to the boiling-point, when drop in the snow a tablespoonful at a time, and keep turning the eggs until sufficiently cooked. Then place them on a glass dish, beat up the yolks of the eggs, stir to them the milk, add a little more sugar, and strain this mixture into a jug; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Pour this custard over the eggs, when they should rise to the surface. They make an exceedingly pretty addition to a supper, and should be put in a cold place after being made. When they are flavoured with vanilla or orange-flower water, it is not necessary to steep the milk. A tew drops of the essence of either may be poured in the milk just before the whites are poached. In making the custard, a little more flavouring and sugar should always be added. Time.—About 2 minutes to poach the whites ; 8 minutes to stir the custard Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2049-STONE CREAM OF TOUS LES MOIS. Ingredients.—| lb. of preserve, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of lump sugar, x heaped tablespoonful of tous le mois, 3 drops of essence of cloves, 3 drops of almond-flavouring. Mode.—Place the preserve at the bottom of a glass dish ; put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, and make it boil. Mix to a smooth batter the tous les mois, with a very little cold milk ; stir it briskly into the boiling milk, add the flavouring and simmer for 2 minutes. When rather cool, but before turning solid, pour the cream over the jam, and ornament it with strips of red currant jelly or preserved fruit