1127 Marble Cake. Time.—1 to i£ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Carbonate of Soda.—Soda was called the mineral alkali because it was originally dug up out of the ground in Africa and other countries ; this state of carbonate of soda is called natron. It is likewise procured from the combustion of marine plants, or such as grow on the sea-shore. Bi- carbonate of soda is employed for making effervescing draughts, with lemon-juice, citric acid or tartaric acid. Soda has been used Irom time immemorial in the manufacture of soap and glass. Introduced into the tea-pot, soda extracts the full strength of the tea. 2501.-MADEIRA CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of butter, i£ lb. of flour, f lb. of pounded loaf sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 2 oz. of candied peel, 9 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, dredge in the flour and sugar, then the lemon rind, whisk the eggs and add; beat well and put into a buttered tin, garnishing the top with the peel cut in thin slices, and bake in a hot oven from i£ to 2 hours. Time.—1£ to 2 hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 2 cakes. Seasonable at any time. MADEIRA CAKE. 2502.—MARBLE CAKE. Ingredients.—White part: 2 teacups of flour, i£ cup of sugar, | cup of butter. £ cup of milk, 4 eggs (whites only), i teaspoonful of cream of tartar, £ teaspoonful of soda, spice to taste. Dark part: z\ cups of flour, i cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, ^ cup of treacle, | cup of milk, 4 yolks of eggs and white of one, £ teaspoonful of soda, £ teaspoonful of cream of tartar, cloves, cinnamon, mace. Mode.—Mix these separately, and drop into the baking-pan by table- spoonfuls alternately. Bake 2 hours; this makes two loaves, and is very nice. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 2 cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2503.-ICING FOR MARBLE CAKE. Ingredients.—Take 1 teacup of white sugar, 1 egg (white only). Mode.—Put to the cup of sugar water enough to dissolve it, set it on the fire and let it boil till it will “ hair; ” beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth; pour the heated sugar on the egg and stir briskly until cool