1583 Cold in the Head. transmitted through the air, by water, or communicated by one individual to another. There can be no doubt that the discharges are one main source of this poison, and hence should be most carefully disinfected. Treatment— He who would avoid cholera during a cholera season ought to live by rule and method. First, see that his water-closets are in good order, and that every precaution is taken in cleansing and disinfecting them. Calvert's carbolic acid powder answers very well for this purpose. See that the house is clean, sweet and airy ; let no foul and decaying matters remain upon the premises. See that the water supply is pure. Let no stale meat or vegetables, no sausages, game or substances likely to create digestive disturbance be used: avoid unripe fruit, prolonged abstinence from food and excessive fatigue. Avoid strong aperient medicines of every kind. The astringents to be used should not be powerful ; chalk mixture, sulphuric acid, lemonade, or these with a little opium added, are best. No Diarrhoea in Cholera time is to be neglected. Try to keep up the bodily heat in every way that will not disturb or fatigue the patient. The patient is consumed with thirst and there is no reason for refusing him drink if it is of a wholesome kind. Should reaction occur he must be kept quiet. If his head trouble him, and his face is flushed, apply cold to it. If there is much sickness, let him have a little ice or ice-water. If his lungs get gorged, warm poultices or turpentine stupes will be best. But the great anxiety is the kidneys. If they do not act, warmth must be tried, perhaps as a warm bath, but this requires caution. If they are acting well and the patient requires a stimulant, let him have some sal volatile. The food given is of especial importance; broths, soups and jellies may be given, but certainly not meat. Small quantities must be given at a time and repeated as frequently as necessary. 3552. Cold, of which catarrh is the most prominent symptom, is, perhaps, the most frequent malady in this country. Its causes are manifold, and as its causes, so the consequences of catching cold are infinitely various, from merely a slight temporary inconvenience to speedy death. Colds are very frequently felt to date from some particular period, but frequently their onset is not appreciated for a time. Symptoms.—Very likely there is some shivering and sneezing, with lassitude, pains in the back, loins and limbs, with tightness of the forehead, and an unnaturally dry state of the lips and nostrils. These speedily give way to exces- sive discharge from the nostrils, first watery and acrid, later mucus or mucous and purulent matter. There is hoarseness and slight sore throat, the eyes water, feverishness, loss of appetite, thirst, and quick pulse. Sometimes small vesicles, called herpes, appear on the lips or about the nose. These symptoms do not last long; they either pass away, or become aggravated if the inflammation passes onwards into the interior of the lung. Treatment.—Put the feet in hot water and, if an adult, give him ten grains of Dover’s powder, a cupful of gruel, and then straight into bed. The following is also useful, and may be given instead of the Dover’s powder :—Sweet spirits of nitre, twenty drops; mindenerus spirit, a teaspoonful; camphor-water sufficient to make one ounce. To be taken as a draught at bed time. Ten to fifteen drops of spirit of camphor taken on a lump of sugar, and repeated in two or three hours, is also a useful remedy in cases of cold. 3553. Colic is a griping pain in the bowels, chiefly about the navel, and often accompanied with a painful distension of the whole of the lower region of the bowels, with vomiting, costiveness and spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the abdomen. Causes.—The complaint is produced by various causes,such as crude, indigestible 3 F