Boiled Fowls. 6n sufficient clear well-skimmed mutton broth to cover it; add the onion, mace, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; stew very gently for about one hour, should the fowl be large, and about half an hour before it is ready put in the rice, which should be well washed and soaked. When the latter is tender, strain it from the liquor, and put it on a sieve reversed to dry before the fire, and, in the meantime, keep the fowl hot. Dish it, put the rice round as a border, pour a little parsley and butter over the fowl, and the remainder send to table on a tureen. Time.—A large fowl, i hour. Average Cost, in full season, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. The Dorking.—This bird takes it name from that of a town in Surrey, where the breed is to be found in greater numbers, and certainly in greater perfection, than elsewhere. It is generally believed that this particular branch of poultry was found in the town above-mentioned as long ago as the Roman era. The Dorking’s chief characteristic is that he has five claws on each foot; the extra claw, however, is never of sufficient length to en- cumber the foot, or to cause it to “ drag ” its nest, or scratch out the eggs. The colour of the true Dorking is pure white; long in the body, short in the legs, and a prolific layer. Thirty years ago, there was much controversy respecting the origin of the Dorking. The men of Sussex declared that the bird belonged to them, and brought birds indigenous to their weald, and possessing all the Dorking fine points and peculiarities, in proof of the declaration. Others inclined to the belief that the Poland bird was the father of the Dorking, and not without at least a show of reason, as the former bird much resembles the latter in shape; and, despite its Dorkings. sombre hue, it is well known that the Poland cock ' will occasionally beget thorough white stock from white English hens. The commotion has, however, long ago subsided, and Dorking still retains its fair reputation for fowl. 1297.—BOILED FOWLS. (Fr.—Poulet a la Bechamel.) Ingredients.—A pair of fowls, 1 pint of bechamel, No. 665, some boiled brocoli or cauliflower. Mode.—Truss and boil the fowls by recipe No. 1295 ; make a pint of bechamel sauce by recipe No. 665, pour some of this over the fowls, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Garnish the dish with bunches of boiled cauliflower or brocoli, and serve very hot. The sauce should be made sufficiently thick to adhere to the fowls ; that for the tureen should be thinned by adding a spoonful or two of stock. Time.—From £ to 1 hour, according to size. Average Cost, in full season, 5s. a pair. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. Space for Fowls.—We are no advocates for converting the domestic fowl into a cage-bird. We have known amateur fowl-keeper?—worthy souls, who would butter the very barley they gave ineir pets, if they thought they would the more enjoy it—coop up a male bird and three or four hens in an ordinary egg-chv»t placed on its side, and with the front closely barred with