678 Recipes for Cooking Game. this is an indispensable accompaniment to roast hare. For economy, good beef dripping may be substituted for the milk and butter to baste with ; but the basting, as we have before stated, must be continued with- out intermission. If the liver is good, it may be parboiled, minced and mixed with the stuffing; but it should not be used unless quite fresh. Time.—A middling-sized hare, ij hour; a large hare, to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to the end of February. The Hare.—This little animal is found generally distributed over Europe, and, indeed, in most parts of the northern world. Its extreme timidity is the endowment which Providence has bestowed upon it as a means of defence; it is, therefore, attentive to every sound, and is supplied with ears both long and tubular, with which it can hear with great acute- ness. Its eyes, also, are so constructed, and placed so prominent in its head, that it can see both before and behind it. It lives entirely upon vegetables, but its IleshL s considered dry, notwithstanding that it is deemed, in many respects, superior to that of the rabbit, being more savoury, and of a much higher flavour. Its general time of feeding is the evening; but during the day, if not disturbed, it adheres closely to its form. Average Cost, from 4s. to 6s. THE HARE. 1398.—POTTED HARE. (Fr.—Terrine de Lievre.) (A Luncheon or Breakfast Dish.) Ingredients.—I hare, a few slices of bacon, a large bunch of savoury herbs, 4 cloves, £ teaspoonful of whole allspice, 2 carrots, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of water, 2 glasses of sherry. Mode.—Skin, empty and wash the hare; cut it down the middle, and put it into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon under and over it; add the remaining ingredients, and stew very gently until the hare is tender, and the flesh will separate easily from the bones. When done enough, take it up, remove the bones, and pound the meat, with the bacon, in a mortar, until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Should it not be suffi- ciently seasoned, add a little cayenne, salt and pounded mace, but be care- ful that these are well mixed with the other ingredients. Press the meat into potting-pots, pour over clarified butter, and keep in a dry place. The liquor that the hare was stewed in should be saved for hashes, soups, &c. Time.—About 2} hours to stew the hare. Seasonable from September to the end of February. BROILED HARE. (Fr— Lievre Grille.) (A Supper or Luncheon Dish.) Ingredients.-—The legs and shoulders of a roast hare, cayenne and Salt to taste, a little butter.