7-278 Recipes for French Cookery. 2906-LEG OF MUTTON A LA PROVENCALE. Ingredients.—A leg of mutton of 7 to 8 lbs., lardoons of fat bacon and of ham, a few anchovies, parsley, blanched tarragon, 2 cloves of garlic, thyme, chopped onions, 2 or 3 bay leaves, coarse pepper, salt, £ pint of olive oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.—Take a leg of mutton that has hung sufficiently to make it quite tender, cut off the shank bone, lift the skin partly without injuring it, and lard the leg with the lardoons of bacon and ham, some strips of anchovies, and bits of parsley and blanched tarragon, and, if not objected to, a few strips of garlic. Place in an earthenware pan some thyme, parsley, chopped onions, 2 or 3 bay-leaves, coarse pepper and a little salt, pour over it half a pint of olive oil and the vinegar. Allow the leg of mutton to lie in this marinade 2 to 3 hours, turning it frequently. Then take it out, spread over it the herbs, &c., of the marinade, covering them over with the skin. Wrap up in buttered paper and roast at a brisk fire. Re- move the paper and serve. Time.—About 2 hours. Average Cost, 8\d. per lb. Sufficient for 10 persons. Seasonable all the year. 2907.—DUCK AUX OLIVES. Ingredients.—1 large duck, \ lb. of French olives, 2 oz. of butter, some parsley, fine onions, flour and salt, £ pint of stock, 1 glass of light French white wine (Sauterne, Chablis, &c.), 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 or 3 cloves, 4 or 5 whole pepper, and a few small pieces of bacon. Mode.—Blanch the olives, cut them off the stones in spirals, and simmer them till done in a little stock and white wine. Brown some onions in butter with a pinch of flour and salt, place the duck in this with its dripping, after roasting for not more than 20 minutes. Put over a slow fire, adding the bacon, parsley and spice and a little stock, turn the duck over in this gravy and baste. When nearly done, add a bit of sugar and the olives prepared as above. Serve up the duck with the olive sauce round it. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, 4s. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable from November to February. 2908.—FRIED CAULIFLOWERS. Ingredients.—2 large cauliflowers, salt, water (1 tablespoonful of salt to 2 quarts of water), 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of olive oil, 8 dessertspoon- fuls of flour, a bunch of parsley, and £ pint vinegar.