770 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 1609.—FRIED POTATOES. (R-Pommes de Terre Frites.) Ingredients.—6 potatoes, | lb. of butter, salt. Mode.—Peel the potatoes very evenly, cut them into slices as thin as an egg-shell. Place the butter in a frying-pan, and as soon as it is boiling, add the sliced potatoes, and fry them of a bright gold colour, shaking them so as to cook them equally; drain on sheets of paper before the fire, powder with salt, and serve very hot. Serve with game. Time.—8 to 10 minutes to fry. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1010.—FRIED POTATOES. (Fr.—Pommesde Terre Frites.) (A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—6 potatoes, oil or dripping, salt. Mode.—Peel the potatoes and throw them into cold water for 10 minutes, dry with a clean cloth, and peel them into ribbons, a half inch wide, with a pocket-knife, cutting round and round. Divide these into 6 inch lengths and tie into knots. Fry by preceding recipe, drain, and serve hot as a garnish to high-class entrees or game. Time.—8 to 10 minutes to-fry the potatoes. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 16x1—A GERMAN METHOD OF COOKING POTATOES. (Fr.—Pommes de Terre a I’Allemande.) Ingredients.—8 to 10 middling-sized potatoes, 30Z. of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, £ pint of broth, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.— Put the butter and flour into a stewpan ; stir over the fire until the butter is of a nice brown colour, and add the broth and vinegar; peel and cut the potatoes into long thin slices, lay them in the gravy, and let them simmer gently until tender, which will be in from 10 to 15 minutes, and serve very hot. A laurel-leaf simmerd with the potatoes is an improvement. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Seasonable at any time. Preserving Potatoes.—In general, potatoes are stored or preserved in pits, cellars, pies or camps; but, whatever inode is adopted, it is essential that the tubers be perfectly dry; otherwise they will surely rot; and a few rotten potatoes will contaminate a whole mass. The pie, as it is called, consists of a trench, lined and covered with straw; the potatoes in it being piled in the shape of a house-roof, to the height of about three feet. The camps are shallow pits, filled and ridged up in a similar manner, covered up with the excavated mould of the pit. In Russia and Canada, the potato is preserved in boxes, in houses or cellars, heated, when necessary to a temperature of one or two degrees above the freezing-point, by stoves. To keep potatoes for a considerable time, the best way is to place them in thin layers on a platform suspended in an ice-cellar ; there, the