132 Soups. As to the feeding value of bone soups, much has been said, and much remains. It is now generally admitted that although gelatine alone is not a diet that will keep one from starvation, yet gelatine with other foods can sustain life, and can to some extent replace the flesh-formers or nitrogenous elements that are so often defective in the diet of the poor. It must not be forgotten that it is not pure gelatine that we get in bone-soups. They are opaque and contain albumen, with some perceptible flavouring matter. As to the precise difference between raw and cooked gelatine, that is of little importance in a work that deals necessarily with cooking. To break bones before boiling also assists greatly in the extraction of the gelatine. 267. Vegetable soups. — Most soups contain vegetables. Even clear soups are flavoured with the soluble extracts, although the vegetable itself does not appear. It is a singular custom that in most other ways of cooking, the vegetable appears and the soluble extracts are wasted. The food value of vegetable soup chiefly depends on the facts: (i) that the whole of the vegetable is preserved and brought to table; (2) that it is brought in a very digestible form. The common way of cooking vegetables is to boil them in water and to throw the water away. There is a common prejudice that the water is poisonous in which some or all vegetables are boiled. We cannot do better than quote Mr. Mattieu Williams's dictum on this subject :—“ I must add a few words in advocacy of the further adoption in this country of the French practice of using as potage the water in which vegetables generally (excepting potatoes) have been boiled. When we boil cabbages, turnips, carrots, &c., we dissolve out of them a very large proportion of their saline constituents; salts which are absolutely necessary for the maintenance of health ; salts without which we become victims of gout, rheumatism, lumbago, neuralgia, gravel, and all the ills that human flesh with a lithic acid diathesis is heir to ; i.e., about the most painful series of all its inheritances. The potash of these salts existing therein in combination with organic acids is separated from these acids by organic combustion, and is then and there presented to the baneful lithic acid of the blood and tissues, the stony torture particles of which it converts into soluble lithate of potash, and thus enables them to be carried out of the system.” To which may be added a cordial recommendation to potato soup, utilising the water in which the potato is boiled, together with general advice to serve in some way, as soup, sauce, &c., all vegetable broth. 268. Puree soups.—Many vegetables are more digestible when cooked in a puree soup than in any other form. Pea, bean, and lentil soups are the best examples of this. Containing as these pulses do, more nitrogenous matter than any other food substance whatever, they do not require the addition of meat or bones ; the custom of adding them has no doubt arisen from ignorance of their nutritive value. They do, and most vegetables do, require the addition of some fat. Puree soups can be made of any and all vegetables, the rule being to boil such vegetables with a suitable quantity of liquid, and to rub them through a sieve or colander, whatever goes through being fit for food, and then to boil again with more liquid or some floury substance if required. Bread put in soup is often fried ; the fat with which it is thus impregnated prevents the entrance of water, and it therefore remains crisp. Flour soups usually are more or less of the nature of porridge. Bread soups and some rice soups are made, but they are always improved by the addition of vegetable or meat broth. Flour, such as barley, oatmeal, macaroni