Recipes for Soups. 18o 370.-PUREE OF WOODPIGEON. (Fn-Puree de Ramier.) Ingredients.—3 pigeons, 2 quarts of medium stock, 2 oz. of butter, j onions, 2 carrots, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 oz. of sugar, the juice of a lemon. Mode.—Cut the pigeons in half and fry them in the butter, with the carrots and onions cut in slices. Put them in a stewpan with the stock and seasoning, and stew for \ of an hour. Take out the pigeons, skin them and cut the meat from the bones, putting the latter back into the pan; and continue stewing till the vegetables are thoroughly done, then strain. Pound the meat and vegetables in a mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. When cool remove all grease from the soup and,when required, add to it the puree of meat and vegetables, and the juice of a lemon before warming. Average Cost, 4s. od. for this quantity. Seasonable all the year round. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 371.—PORTABLE SOUP. Ingredients.—2 knuckles of veal, 3 shins of beef, 1 large bunch of herbs, 2 bay leaves, 2 heads of celery, 3 onions, 3 carrots, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves, a teaspoonful of salt, sufficient water to cover all the ingredients. Mode.—Take the marrow from the bones; put all the ingredients in a stock-pot, and simmer slowly for 12 hours, or more, if the meat be not done to rags ; strain it off, and put it in a very cool place ; take off all the fat; reduce the liquor in a shallow pan, by setting it over a sharp fire, but be particular that it does not burn; boil it fast and uncovered for 8 hours, and keep it stirred. Put it into a deep dish, and set it by for a day. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, place the dish in it, and keep it boil- ing ; stir occasionally, and when the soup is thick and ropy it is done. Form it into little cakes by pouring a small quantity on to the bottom of cups or basins ; when cold, turn them out on a flannel to dry. Keep them from the air in tin canisters. This can now be purchased cheaper than it can be made at home. Average Cost of this quantity, 12s. Note.—Soup can be made in 5 minutes with this, by dissolving a small piece, about the size of a walnut, in a pint of warm water, and simmering for 2 minutes. Vermicelli, macaroni, or other Italian pastes, may be added. The Laurel, or Bay.—The leaves of this tree frequently enter into the recipes of cookery; but they ought not to be used without the greatest caution, and not at all unless the cook is perfectly aware of their effects. It ought to be known, that there are two kinds of bay trees,—the Classic laurel, whose leaves are comparatively harmless, and the Cherry laurel, which is the one whose leaves are employed in cookery. They hive a kernel-like flavour, and are used in blanc-mange, puddings, custards, &c.; but, when acted upon by water, they develop prussic acid, and, therefore, but a small number of the leaves should be used at a time.