696 Recipes for Cooking Game. ketchup, and lay in the pieces of hare, with any stuffing that may he left. Let the whole gradually heat by the side of the fire, and when it has sim- mered for about five minutes, serve, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. Time.—Rather more than i hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold hare, 8d. Seasonable from September to the end of February. 1428.—JUGGED HARE. (Fr.—Li6vre a la Daube.) (Very Good.) Ingredients.—1 hare, It} lb. of gravy beef, 4 lb. of butter, 1 onion, 1 lemon, 6 cloves, pepper, cayenne and salt to taste, -1- pint of port, force- meat balls, No. 629. Mode.—Skin, paunch and wash the hare, cut it into pieces, dredge them with flour, and fry in boiling butter. Have ready i4 pint of gravy, made from the above proportion of beef, and thickened with a little flour. Put this into a jar; add the pieces of fried hare, an oniop stuck with six cloves, a lemon peeled and cut in half, and a good seasoning of pepper, cayenne and salt; cover the jar down tightly, put it up to the neck in a stewpan of boiling water, and let it stew until the hare is quite tender, taking care to keep the water boiling. When nearly done, pour in the wine, and add a few forcemeat balls, made by recipe No. 629; these must be fried or baked in the oven for a few minutes before they are put to the gravy. Serve with red-currant jelly. Time.—37 to 4 hours. If the hare is very old, allow 4^ hours. Average Cost, 7s. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to the end of February. 1429.-JUGGED HARE. (A Quicker and more Economical Way.) Ingredients.—1 hare, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions, each stuck with 3 cloves, 3 whole allspice, £ teaspoonful of black pepper, a strip of lemon-peel, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, £ pint of port. Mode.—Wash the hare nicely, cut it up into joints (not too large), and flour and brown them as in the preceding recipe; then put them into a stewpan with the herbs, onions, cloves, allspice, pepper and lemon-peel; cover with hot water, and when it boils carefully remove all the scum, and let it simmer gently till tender, which will be in about if hour, or longer, should the hare be very old. Take out the pieces of hare, thicken