Sugar for Preserving. 977 refrigerator. In an ice-house it will remain fresh and plump for several days. Fruit gathered in wet or foggy weather will soon be mildewed, and be of no ser- vice for preserves unless it is used immediately, and very thoroughly boiled, when it may be made into preserve or jam that will keep, though of course of jnferior quality and doubtful wholesomeness. There is no mistake more common than to suppose that any half-ripe or over-ripe fruit is good enough for jam. 2096. Preserves and pickles are both of them food—generally vegetable food—preserved by means of some antiseptic. Sugar is used in preserves, and in pickles vinegar; but sometimes the two are used together. Salt or spices are often added to preserves, and always to pickles. The chief dietetic value of pickles lies in the abundance of vegetable acid that it affords. We have already had occasion to speak of the acids in fresh fruits and vegetables, and of the bad results of a lack of them in our daily food. Acetic acid is what we find in vinegar, which is indeed a weak mixture of acetic acid and water, flavoured and coloured with burnt sugar or malt extract. We buy it under two different names—malt vinegar and wine vinegar—and it is also made of starch, sugar, and the destructive distillation of wood. Weak alcohol is readily changed into vinegar by simple exposure to air, but the change is generally hastened by the employment of some vegetable organism, like the yeast plant, or the vinegar plant. Vinegar is also the basis of most store sauces, and of ketchup. It is also commonly flavoured with herbs and vegetables, to be kept for use when these cannot be obtained fresh. To make pickles successfully, the vegetables must be perfectly dry and quite fresh. Any commencing fermentation or mouldiness would prevent it from keeping. They must also be covered with vinegar. Any vinegar left over is an excellent substitute for ketchup. They can usually be kept for any length of time. 2097. Adulteration in Pickles.—Sulphuric acid is often present in vinegar in larger amount than the law allows, i.e., 1 part in 1,000, and it is very injurious to the health even in small amount. But good vinegar and unadul- terated pickles are, no doubt, good for health. Vinegar is an old remedy for scurvy, and, as complaints of that character are common enough, especially in our large towns, there is abundant evidence for the use of pickles, especially in those houses where fresh fruit and vegetables are not obtainable all the year round. Pickles sometimes contain copper, added in order to fix the chlorophyll, or green colouring matter, in the vegetables. It is poisonous, and, if present, leaves a coppery tinge on silver, whereby it may be detected. 2098. Sugar for Preserving.—Of the various kinds of sugar in common use, the white refined lump is generally sold for preserving, and, indeed, is the only kind admissible for the more delicate kinds of preserves. Coarse brown sugar conceals the flavour of any fruit, and the whiter moist sugar has little sweetening power. Crystallised Demerara makes good preserves, is very sweet, seldom adulterated, and is sold cheaper than lump sugar, so that for common household preserves it is very suitable. A well-known writer says : “ Sugar candy is the purest form of sugar; white loaf sugar comes next; then the pale, dry, large-grained crystallised sugars; while all the moist sugars are of inferior purity, invariably containing not only water and uncrystallisable sugar, but also mineral and organic compounds. They are not infrequently largely infested by a small insect, the sugar-mite, many thousands of which have been detected in a single pound of brown sugar. Whatever may have been the case, sugar is not now adulterated save, perhaps, with the kind of artificial sugar called glucose, or grape sugar; but sugar is often insufficiently purified." Cane-sugar and grape- sugar. otherwise 'known as sucrose and glucose, are obtained from various sources