Grape Wine. 1203 seeds, and cover the whole closely for 24 hours ; after which, strain it through a coarse bag, and press it with as much force as can be con- veniently applied, to extract the whole of the juice and liquor the fruit may contain. To every 40 or 50 lbs, of fruit one gallon more of hot water may be passed through the marc, or husks, in order to obtain any soluble matter that may remain, and be again pressed. The juice should be put into a tub or pan of sufficient size to contain all of it, and the sugar added to it. Let it be well stirred until the sugar is dissolved, and place the pan in a warm situation; keep it closely covered, and let it ferment for a day or two. It must then be drawn off into clean casks, placed a little on one side for the scum that rises to be thrown out, and the casks kept filled with the remaining'1 must,” that should be reserved for that purpose. When the active fermentation has ceased, the casks should be plugged upright, again filled, if necessary, the bungs be put in loosely, and, after a few days, when the fermentation is a little more languid (which may be known by the hissing noise ceasing), the bungs should be driven in tight, and a spile-hole made, to give vent if necessary. About November or December, on a clear fine day, the wine should be racked from its lees into clean casks, which may be rinsed with brandy. After a month, it should be examined to see it it is sufficiently clear for bottling; if not, it must be fined with isinglass, which may be dissolved in some of the wine : i oz. will be sufficient for 9 gallons. In March or April, or when the gooseberry bushes begin to blossom, the wine must be bottled, in order to insure its being effervescing. Seasonable.—Make this the end of May or beginning of June, before the berries ripen. 2687.—GRAPE WINE. Ingredients.—Ripe grapes. Mode.—Mash sound, ripe grapes well with your hands in an earthen pan, or if not with your hands, with a perfectly tasteless stick of wood. Do not crush the seeds ; strain the liquor into a cask, gently squeeze the pulp, pouring the remainder of the juice into the cask (strained). Let it stand aside for a fortnight, when draw it off into another cask, covering up the bunghole with a piece of slate till all fermentation has ceased. Bottle in 6 months; cork and seal, and it will be drinkable in 12 months’ time. Time.—18 months. Average Cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable in September and October.