1170 Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs. placed in another vessel of boiling water, so keeping the preparation beautifully hot. A small quantity of porter, or port wine, is sometimes mixed with the cheese; and, if it be not very rich, a few pieces of butter may be mixed with it to great advantage. Sometimes the melted cheese is spread on the toasts, and then laid in the cheese-dish at the top of the hot water. Whichever way it is served it is highly necessary that the mixture be very hot, and very quickly sent to table, or it will be worth- less. Time.—About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average Cost, 1 %d. per slice. Sufficient.—Allow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. 2608.-TOASTED CHEESE, or WELSH RARE-BIT. Ingredients.—Slices of bread, butter, Cheshire or Gloucester cheese, mustard and pepper. Mode.—Cut the bread into slices about half an inch in thickness; pare off the crust, toast the bread slightly without hardening or burning it, and spread it with butter. Cut some slices, not quite so large as the bread from a good rich fat cheese ; lay them on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster ; be careful that the cheese does not burn, and let it be equally melted. Spread over the top a little made mustard and a seasoning of pepper, and serve very hot, with very hot plates. To facilitate the melting of the cheese, it may be cut into thin flakes or toasted on one side before it is laid on the bread. As it is so essential to send this dish hot to table, it is a good plan to melt the cheese in small round silver or metal pans, and to send these pans to table, allowing one for each guest. Slices of dry or buttered toast should always accompany them, with mus- tard, pepper and salt. Time.—About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average Cost, i$d. each slice. Sufficient.—Allow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. ENGLISH CHEDDAR. Note.—Should the cheese be dry, a little butter mixed with it will be an im- provement . “ Cow Cheese.”—it was only fifty years after Aristotle—the fourth century before Christ—that butter began to be noticed as an aliment. The Greeks, in imitation of the Parthians and Scythians, who used to send it to them, had it served upon their tables, and gilllefi it at first “oil Oi milk,” and later bowturos. “ spw chegge,”