Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 790 x64q —CUT VEGETABLES FOR SOUPS, &c. The annexed engraving represents a cutter for shaping vegetables for rj->Tj soups, ragouts, stews, &c., carrots and turnips being II | I the usual vegetables for which this utensil is used. Sll:I Cut the vegetables into slices about a quarter of (|:! [I an inch in thickness, stamp them out with the cutter, If, ||| and boil them for a few minutes in salt and water until tender. Turnips should be cut in rather vegetable cutter, thicker slices than carrots, on account o,' the former boiling more quickly to a pulp than the latter. Carrots.—Several species of carrots are cultivated—the red, the yellow and the white. Those known as the Crecy carrots are considered the best, and are very sweet. The cat'ot has been classed by hygienists among flatulent vegetables, and as difficult ot digestion. When the root becomes old, it is almost as hard as wood; but the young carrot which has no: reached its full growth is tender, relishing, nutritious, and digests well when properly cooked. 1650.—VEGETABLE MARROWS IN WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—Courge a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—4 or 5 moderate-sized marrows, i pint of white sauce, No. 666. Mode.—Pare the marrows, Cut them in halves, and shape each half at the top in a point, leaving the bottom end flat for it to stand upright in the dish. Boil the marrows in salt and water until tender; take them up very carefully, and arrange them on a hot dish. Have ready half a pint of white sauce, made by Recipe No. 666 ; pour this over the marrows, and serve. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes to boil the marrows. Average Cost, in full season, 2d. to qd. each. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable in July, August and September. 1651.—BOILED INDIAN WHEAT OR MAIZE. (Fr.—Mai's.) Ingredients.—The ears of young and green Indian wheat ; to every £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—This vegetable, which makes one of the most delicious dishes brought to table, is unfortunately very rarely seen in Britain ; and we wonder that, in the gardens of the wealthy, it is not invariably cultivated. Our sun, it is true, possesses hardly power sufficient to ripen maize ; but, with well prepared ground, and in a favourable position, it might VEGETABLE MARROW IN WHITE SAUCE.