365 Baking. contains all the savoury constituents of the meat, ^ gradually heated it soon becomes turbid ; and. when the temperature reaches about 160 , flakes of whitish matter separate. These flakes are albumen a substance prec1 its properties, to the white of egg. When the temperature of the watery extract is raised to 158°. the colouring matter of the blood coagulates, and the liqu , which was originally tinged red by this substance, is left perfectly clear and^almost colourless. When evaporated, even at a gentle heat, this residual liquid gradually becomes brown, and acquires the flavour of roast meat. 815. Interesting Facts, discovered in the laboratory, throw a flood of light upon the mysteries of the kitchen. The fibres of meat are surrounded by liquid which contains albumen in its soluble state, just as it exists in the unboiled egg During the operation of boiling or roasting, this substance coagulates. 1 h tenderness of well-cooked meat is consequently proportioned to the amount of heat employed and the slight or complete coagulation of the albumen deposited in its substance. Meat is done when it has been heated throughout only to the temperature of coagulating albumen, provided the heat is continued long enough it is thoroughly done when it has been heated through its whole mass to the temperature at which the colouring matter of the blood coagulates ; it is over on when the heat has been continued long enough to harden the fibres in the albu- men. 816. The Juice of Flesh is Water, holding in solution many substances besides albumen which are of the highest possible value as articles of food^ In preparing meat for the table, great care should be taken to prevent the escape o this precious juice, as the succulence and sapidity of the meat depend on its retention. The meat to be cooked should be exposed at first to a quick heat which immediately coagulates the albumen on and near the surface. A kind ot shell is thus formed, which effectually retains the whole of the juice within the meat. 817. During the operations of Boiling, Boasting and Baling, fresh beef and mutton, when moderately fat, lose, according to Jo ns on, average about— In boiling. In baking. In roasting. 4 lbs. of beef lose 1 lb 1 3 oz 1 IV' | 4 lbs. of mutton lose ...14 oz 1 lb. 4 oz BAKING. 818. The difference betiveen Boasting Mew1 be generally described as consisting in the fact, that, in g , caused by the operation are not carried off in the same way as occurs in roasting. Much, however, of this disadvantage is obviated by the improved construction of modern ovens. With meat baked in the generality of ovens without ventilators, there is apt to be a peculiar taste, which depends very much more on the cleanness of the . . , . oven, the burning of fat in the pan or on the floor, and the habit of poking many different dishes at once, than on the oven itself. The chemistry of bnkmg m y be said to be the same as that described in roasting. Should the oven be ve ry brisk, it will be found necessary to cover the joint with a piece of white paper to prevent the meat from being scorched and blackened outside before the hea TIN BAKING DISH.