General Observations on the Sheep and Lamb. 478 shorter and lighter, it was of a better colour, finer, and possessed of superior felting properties. 1052. The Romney-Marsh Breed is a large animal, deep, close and compact, with white face and legs, and yields a heavy fleece of a good staple quality. The general structure is, however, considered defective, the chest being narrow and the extremities coarse ; nevertheless, its tendency to fatten, and its early maturity, are universally admitted. The Romney-Marsh, there- fore, though not ranking as a first-class in respect of perfection and symmetry of breed, is a highly useful, profitable, and generally advantageous variety of the English domestic sheep. 1053. Different Names have been given to sheep by their breeders ; according to their age and sex. The male is called a ram or tup ; after weaning, he is said to be a hog, or hogget, or a lamb-hog, tub-hog or teg ; later he is a wether, or wether-hog; after the first shearing, a shearing, or dinmont; and after each succeeding shearing, a two, three, or four-shear ram, tup, or wether, according to circumstances. The female is called a ewe, or gimmer-lamb, till weaned, when she becomes, according to the shepherd’s nomenclature, a gimmer-ewe, hog, or teg ; after shearing, a gimmer, or shearing-ewe, or theave ; and in future, a two, 'hree, or four-shear ewe, or theave. 1054. The Gentle and Timid Disposition of the sheep, and its de- fenceless condition, must very early have attached it to man for motives less selfish than either its fleece or its flesh ; for it has been proved beyond a doubt that, obtuse as we generally regard it, it is susceptible of a high degree of domes- ticity, obedience and affection. In many parts of Europe where the flocks are guided by the shepherd’s voice alone, it is no unusual thing for a sheep to quit the herd when called by its name, and follow the keeper like a dog. In the mountains of Scotland, when a flock is invaded by a savage dog, the rams have been known to form the herd into a circle, and placing themselves on the outside line, keep the enemy at bay, or charging on him in a troop, have des- patched him with their horns. 1055. The Value of the Sheep seems to have been early understood by Adam in his fallen state ; his skin not only affording him protection for his body, but a covering for his tent; and, accordingly, we find Abel entrusted with this portion of his father's stock ; for the Bible tells us that " Abel was a keeper of sheep.’’ What other animals were domesticated at that time we can only conjecture, or at what exact period the flesh of the sheep was first eaten for food by man, is equally, if not uncertain, open to controversy. For though some authorities maintain the contrary, it is but natural to suppose that when Abel brought firstlings of his flock, “ and the fat thereof,” as a sacrifice, the less dainty portions, not being oblations, were hardly likely to have been flung away as refuse. Indeed, without supposing Adam and his descendents to have eaten animal food, we cannot reconcile the fact of Jabal Cain, Cain’s son, and his family, living in tents, as they are reported to have done, knowing that both their own garments and the coverings of the tents, were made from the hides and skins of the animals they bred ; for the number of sheep and oxen slain for oblations only, would not have supplied sufficient material for two such necessary purposes. The opposite opinion is, that animal food was not eaten till after the Flood, when the Lord renewed his covenant with Noah. From Scriptural authority we learn many interesting facts as regards the sheep: the first, that mutton fat was considered the most delicious portion of any meat, and the tail and adjacent part the most exquisite morsel in the whole body; consequently,