456 Recipes for Cooking Veal Mode.—Put the meat into a mortar and pound each kind separately. ±‘hen line a dish with pie-crust, put in the meat in alternate layeis with the seasoning and truffles in due course. When the dish is full pour in the gravy, put on the top crust and bake in a moderate oven. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1011.—POTTED VEAL. (Fr.—Veau en Terrine.) (For Breakfast.) Ingredients.—I lb. of veal, \ lb. of ham, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, 6 oz. of fresh butter; clarified butter. Mode.—Mince the veal and ham together as finely as possible, and pound well in a mortar, with cayenne, pounded mace, and fresh butter in the above proportion. When reduced to a perfectly smooth paste, press it into potting-pots, and cover with clarified butter. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good some days. Average Cost for this quantity, 2s. Seasonable from March to October. Names of Calves, fee.—During the time the young male calf is suckled by his mother, he is called a bull or ox-calf; when turned a year old, he is called a stirk, stot, or yearling; on the completion of his second year, he is called a two-year-old bull or steer (and in some counties, a twinter); then, a three-year-old steer ; and at four, an ox or a bullock, which latter names are re- tained till death, it may be here remarked, that the term ox is used as a general or common appel- lation for neat cattle, in a specific sense, and irrespective of sex ; as, the British ox, the Indian ox. The female is termed cow, but while sucking the mother, a cow-calf; at the age of a year she is called a yearling quey ; in another year, a heifer, or twinter ; then a three-year-old quey or twinter; and, at four years old, a cow. Other names, to be regarded as provincialisms, exist in different dis- tricts. 1012.—RAGOUT OF COLD VEAL. (Fr—RagoQt de Veau.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold veal, about 2 lbs., 1 oz. of butter, | pint of gravy, thickening of butter and flour, pepper and salt to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 table- spoonful of sherry, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Any part of veal will make this dish. Cut the meat into nice- looking pieces, put them in a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, and fry a light brown ; add the gravy (hot water may be substituted for this), thicken with a little butter and flour, and stew gently for about a quarter of an hour; season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace; add the ketchup, sherry, and lemon-juice; give one boil, and serve. Garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and fried rashers of bacon.