347 Sardine Sauce make it of the consistency of cream, taking care to add but little at a time. The mixture will then be ready for use. Average Cost, for this quantity, 7d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized salad. Note.—The whites of the eggs, cut into rings, will serve very well as a garnish' ing to the salad. 767.—SALAD DRESSING. {Another Mode. Excellent.) Ingredients.—I egg, 1 teaspoonful of salad oil, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, £ teaspoonful of salt, £ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream. Mode.—Prepare and mix the ingredients by the preceding recipe, and be very particular that the whole is well stirred. Note.—In making salads, the vegetables, &c., should never be added to the sauce very long before they are wanted for table; the dressing, however, may always be prepared some hours before required. Where salads are much in request, it is a good plan to bottle off sufficient dressing for a few days’ consump- tion, as, thereby, much time and trouble are saved. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good for 4 or 5 days. Poetic Recipe for Salad.—The Rev. Sydney Smith, the witty Canon of St. Paul’s, who thought that an enjoyment of the good things of this earth was compatible with aspirations for things higher, wrote the following excellent recipe for salad, which we should advise our readers not to pass by without a trial, when the hot weather invites to a dish of cold lamb. May they find the flavour equal to the rhyme: “ Two large potatoes, pass'd through kitchen sieve, Smoothness and softness to the salad give; Of mordent mustard add a single spoon, Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, To add a double quantity of salt. Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And twice with vinegar procured from ‘ town ;' True flavour needs it, and your poet begs, The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. Let onion’s atoms lurk within the bowl, And, scarce suspected animate the whole; And, lastly, in the flavour’d compound toss A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. Oh ! great and glorious, and herbaceous treat, ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he’d turn his weary soul, And plunge his fingers in the salad-bowl.’’ 768.-SARDINE SAUCE. Ingredients.—6 large sardines, 1 shalot, rind of 1 lemon, 1 bay-leaf, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 1 pint gravy, No. 615 ; 1 oz. of butter, flour. Mode.—Bone the sardines and chop them, then roll the butter in flour and put it into the gravy in a stewpan with the fish-bones and other