1068 Recipes for Making Ices and Confectionery. this throw them into another pan of boiling water and boil till tender. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a basin of lukewarm water, and put the chestnuts in this when done. When cool, dry them, dip each in clarified sugar, and lay on a slab to dry. Note.—For the clarified sugar use 3 lbs. of sugar to ij pint of water and the whites of 2 eggs, and make by recipe No. 2116. 2343 -CANDIED WALNUTS. Ingredients.—Walnuts, liqueur, clarified sugar, lemon. Mode.—Proceed in the same manner as for candied chestnuts, but flavour the sugar with a little liqueur, which may also be used for the chestnuts if liked. 2344.- CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Ingredients.—Almonds, chocolate. Mode.—Blanch the almonds by putting them for a few minutes in hot water and rubbing off the skin. Melt some chocolate, take up each almond separately with a long pin or skewer, dip in the chocolate, and lay on a buttered slab to cool. 2345 -CHOCOLATE CREAM. Ingredients.—1 lb. of sugar, 3 oz. of best arrowroot, rather more than | pint of water, chocolate. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot with the water, and put into a lined sauce- pan ; add the sugar and boil about 10 minutes, stirring quickly the while, then take it off the fire and stir till it begins to cool. Flavour with vanilla essence or any that may be preferred, roll into little balls, melt some chocolate, and roll each ball in this, and lay on a buttered slab to cool. 2346.-COCOANUT CANDY. Ingredients.—1| lb. of sugar, f pint of cold water, £ lb. of grated cocoanut. Mode;—Put the sugar, with the water, into a pipkin, and let it dissolve ; boil it 5 minutes, then strain, put in the cocoanut, set the pipkin again on the fire and stir till the candy rises; then spread on sheets of writing- paper which have been warmed before the fire, and before the candy is quite cold take it off the paper and cut in squares. Let it be thoroughly dry before putting away. 2347.—TURKISH SWEETMEAT. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, 4 lb. of finest wheat starch, pints of water, flavouring of rose or lemon essence.