Beef-Tea Custard. 1235 through a hair sieve, and rinse the residue with another £ pint of water. This is quite transparent, and contains the albumen in solution. It should be taken cold, or, if heated, it should not be above 120° Fahr. Sometimes the acid is objectionable, and in that case raw beef-tea should be prepared by the following recipe. 2780.-MEAT JUICE. Mode.—Scrape the meat very fine with a knife, and take away all fat and fibre. The finer it is scraped the better. Put it in a glass with its own weight of cold or lukewarm water, and let it stand twenty minutes. Then strain it. Children sometimes take it mixed with sugar. The appearance can be disguised with Liebig’s extract. 2781.—BEEF-TEA CUSTARD. Mode .—In those cases where some variation from beef-tea is desired, the following may be found useful;—Take a gill of beef-tea, the yolks of 2 eggs, the white of 1, and a pinch of salt. Mix all thoroughly together, butter an earthenware cup very thoroughly, pour in the mixture, tie buttered paper over, and steam it for twenty minutes. Turn it out, and serve hot or cold, or put a few pieces into a cup of broth. The water should not bubble after the custard is in. 2782.—INVALID’S BEEF JELLY. Mode.—Cut 3 lbg. of lean shin of beef into small pieces, and put it in a jar with seasoning, and just enough water to cover it. Lemon-peel, celery, or spice maybe added to flavour. Tie it closely down with brown paper, and set it in a cool oven, where it should remain for 4 or 5 hours. Then strain off the liquor into very small moulds or cups, out of which it should turn in a jelly. If steak is used, it is necessary to add a little gelatine or isinglass. To be served cold. It can sometimes be retained on the stomach when ordinary hot beef-tea is at once rejected, but, if made for such a patient, should be without flavouring. 2783.-SAVOURY BEEF-TEA. (Soyer’s Recipe.) Ingredients.—I lb. of solid beef, I oz. of butter, 1 clove, 2 button onions or £ a large one 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 quart of water; Mode.—Cut the beef into very small dice ; put it into a stewpan with the butter, clove, onion, and salt; stir the meat round over the fire for a few minutes, until it produces a thin gravy ; then add the water, and let it simmer gently from half to three-quarters of an hour, skimming off every particle of fat. When done, strain it through a sieve, and put it by in a