Mutton with Poached Eggs. 493 rice, the same as for other curries. This, as well as other curries, is im- proved by a little chutnee and some acid fruit such as an apple. Time.—§ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. Seasonable in winter. 1081.—CUTLETS OF COLD MUTTON. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Mouton au Jus de Tomates.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold loin or neck of mutton, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, brown gravy, No. 614, or tomato sauce, No. 784. Mode.—Cut the remains of cold loin or neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and take away a portion of the fat, should there bG too much ; dip them in beaten egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and fry them a nice brown in hot dripping. Arrange them on a dish, and pour round them either a good gravy or hot tomato sauce. Time.—About 7 minutes. Seasonable.—Tomatoes are best in September and October. 1082.—DORMERS. (Fr.—Croquettes de Mouton.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of cold mutton, 2 oz. of beef suet, pepper and salt to taste, 3 oz. of boiled rice, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, made gravy. Mode.—Chop the meat, suet and rice finely ; mix well together, and add a light seasoning of pepper and salt, and roll into sausages ; cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot dripping of a nice brown. Serve in a dish, with made gravy poured round them, and a little in a tureen. Time.—£ hour to fry the sausages. Average Cost, exclusive of t-he meat, 4d. Seasonable at any time. 1083.-POACHED EGGS AND MUTTON OR BEEF. Ingredients.—Underdone beet or mutton, 6 eggs. Mode.—Cut slices of underdone meat of the same size and thickness and grill them carefully over a bright clear fire to a nice brown colour. When done arrange them on a hot dish before the fire and put a hot cover over to keep them warm while poaching the eggs. When these are ready arrange them around the meat, either alone or on a border of mashed potatoes. If sauce be required it should be some good gravy with a dash of vinegar in it. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of meat, 6d. Seasonable at any time.