391 Boiled A itchbone. Time.—5 minutes to broil the steaks, and about the same time to fry the potatoes. Average Cost, zs 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable all the year; but not so good in warm weather, as the meat cannot hang to get tender. 873.—BOILED AITCHBONE OF BEEF. Ingredients.— Beef, water. Mode.—After this joint has been in salt for 5 or 6 days, it will be ready for use, and will not take so long boiling as a round, for it is not so solid. Wash the meat, and, if too salt, soak it for a few hours, changing the water once or twice, till the required freshness is obtained. Put into a saucepan, or boiling-pot, sufficient water to cover the meat; set it over the fire, and when it boils, plunge in the joint (see No. 223), and let it boil up quickly. Now draw the pot to the side of the fire, and let the process be very gradual, as the water must only simmer, or the meat will be hard and tough. Carefully remove the scum from the surface of the water, and continue doing this for a few minutes after it first boils. Cai- rots and turnips are served with this dish, and sometimes suet dumplings, which may be boiled with the beef. Time.—An aitchbone of 10 lbs., z\ hours after the water boils; one of 20 lbs., 4 hours. Average Cost, 7d. per lb. Sufficient 10 lbs., for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, but best from September to March. Note.—The liquor in which the meat has been boiled may be easily converted into a very excellent pea-soup. As a joint of fresh meat, boned and roasted, it is tender and economical, the bones making excellent soup. The Action Of Salt on Meat.—The manner in which salt acts in preserving meat is not difficult to understand. By its strong affinity, it, in the first place, extracts the juices from the substance of meat in sufficient quantity to form a saturated solution with the water contained in the juice, and the meat then absorbs the saturated brine in place of the juice extracted by the salt. In this way, matter incapable of putrefaction takes the place of that portion in the meat which is most perishable. Such, however, is not the only office of salt as a means of preserving meat; it acts also by its astringency in contracting the hbres of the muscles, and so excludes the action of air on the interior of the substance of the meat. The last-mentioned operation of salt as an antiseptic is evinced by the diminution of the volume of meat to which it is applied. The astringent action of saltpetre on meat is much greater than that of salt, and thereby renders meat to which it is applied very hard ; but in small quantities, it considerably assists the antiseptic action of salt, and also prevents the destruction of the florid colour of meat, which is caused by the application of salt. Thus, it will be perceived, from the foregoing statement, that the application of salt and saltpetre diminishes, in a considerable degree, the nutritive, and, to some extent, the wholesome qualities of meat; and, therefore, in their use, the quantity applied should be as small as possible, consistent with the perfect preservation of the meat. AITCHBONE OF BEEF.