no Introduction to Cookery. cracks the skin and makes a very unsightly appearance, and yet if the fish is put into cold water it, like meat, gets dry. So a compromise has to be made here, and the best plan is to put it into water as hot as the skin will bear (which varies with each fish), and to put salt with the water, or lemon-juice, or vinegar, because albumen sooner coagulates if acid is added to it. Vinegar with a poached egg answers the same purpose. Vegetables, with few exceptions, should be put into boiling water and kept there. 225. Stewing almost invariably requires a heat much below that of boiling water : 165° is about stewing point. Whatever is stewed parts with much of its goodness to the surrounding liqour, which should not, therefore, be wasted. Less liquid is used than in boiling. It is a method particularly suitable for all gelatinous meat, such as knuckles, heads and feet, and for all tough, fibrous meat, because long-continued, moderate heat with moisture is the best way of bringing gelatine and tough fibre into an eatable condition. It is the cheapest method of of cooking for several reasons. Little heat is required, therefore little fuel used. Nothing is wasted ; whatever goes into the pot comes out. The cheapest and coarsest meat can be used. No attention needed while cooking. Vegetables and flour foods can be added, and are flavoured by a small quantity of meat. In order that all the juices may not be extracted from the meat it is usual to fry it first before stewing, this makes it a good colour, and also hardens the surface albumen and prevents the soluble matters from escaping. A stew should not bubble and boil ; it should stand by the side of the stove, and should never do more than bubble occasionally and leisurely at one side of a large pan. A jar well tied down and set in a cool oven makes a capital stewing apparatus, or a jar set in a saucepan of water, or a Warren’s cooking pot (see page 65J; almost anything is better than a common saucepan. One difficulty is that carrots and turnips when they are old and tough ought to be boiled, and so do not agree with a small piece of stewed meat. Cooked together, one must be spoiled. It is the best plan to boil the vegetables first, and then to use them and their liquor for the stew. A common mistake is to put in too much liquid. The meat need not be covered, and cooks forget that at the moderate heat of stewing there is very little waste by evaporation. 226. Frying has been described as boiling in fat. It is a singularly unhappy phrase, because fat never boils, and because the thing fried is not always immersed in fat. It is the quickest mode of cooking, because melted fat or oil can be brought to a high temperature, and, by contact with it, the food fried is very quickly and very much heated. All fried food is heated beyond boiling water point on its surface, if prolonged it is heated throughout, so that it is not fitted for food that should be slowly cooked at a low temperature, such as tough meat. The point to which fats or oils may be heated varies, some burning much more readily than others. About 350° to 400° is a suitable temperature : it can be higher, it should sometimes be lower for things that need slow cooking, but it is usually better to begin at a high temperature and lower it afterwards. The temperature is always lowered by putting in the cold things to be cooked to a degree that is determined by the relative quantity of fat and food, and by the sort of food. The temperature can be taken accurately with a thermometer constructed specially for the purpose ; it can be taken approximately by several homely devices. 1. Drop in a few drops of water. If the fat bubbles thereupon, it must be hotter than 2120 ; if it bubbles smartly it may be taken at over 300". 2. Drop in a piece of bread and take it out at the end of half-a-minute. If the bread is crisp the fat is about 350° or more.