French Rice Pudding. 877 drained, and let it swell gradually in the milk over a slow fire. When it is tender, stir in the sugar, butter, and yolks of eggs ; butter a mould, press in the rice, and proceed in exactly the same manner as in recipe No. 1684. When the casserole is ready, fill it with a compote of any fruit that may be preferred, or with melted apricot jam, and serve. Time.—From f to 1 hour to swell the rice, £ to f hour to bake the casserole. Average Cost, exclusive of the compote or jam, is. 6d. Sufficient for 2 casseroles. Seasonable at any time. 1866.—RICE MILK. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, 3 pints of milk, 2 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Boil the rice by recipe No. 1857; when quite dry, place in a large pie-dish, boil the milk and sugar together, and pour hot on the rice. Time.—25 minutes. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 6 children. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Children are extremely fond of this simple, wholesome dish. 1867. -FRENCH RICE PUDDING. (Fr.—Gateau de Riz.) Ingredients.—To every ^ lb. of rice allow 1 quart of milk, the rind of 1 lemon, £ teaspoonful of salt, sugar to taste, 4 oz. of butter, 6 eggs, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Put the milk into a stewpan with the lemon-rind, and let it infuse for half an hour, or until the former is well flavoured ; then take out the peel; have ready the rice, washed, picked and drained ; put it into the milk, and let it gradually swell over a very slow fire. Stir in the butter, salt, and sugar, and when properly sweetened, add the yolks of the eggs, and then the whites, both of which should be well beaten, and added separately to the rice. Butter a mould, strew in some fine bread-crumbs, and let them be spread equally over it; then carefully pour in the rice, and bake the pudding in a slow oven for 1 hour ; turn it out of the mould, and garnish the dish with preserved cherries, or any bright-coloured jelly or jam. This pudding is exceedingly nice flavoured with essence of vanilla. Time.—£ to I hour for the rice to rise well; to be baked 1 hour in a slow oven. Average Cost, is. 4d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1868. —BAKED OR BOILED GROUND RICE PUDDING. * • • iO ' J& Ingredients.—2 pints of milk, 6 tablespoonfuls of ground rice, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, flavouring of lemon-rmd, nutmeg, bitter almonds or bay-leaf.