400 Recipes for Cooking Beef. or two before the fire, and serve on a folded napkin. A small quantity of finely-minced onions, mixed with the batter, is an improvement. Time.—From 7 to 10 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. Seasonable at any time. 893.—HASHED BEEF. (Fr.—Emince de Filet de Bceuf.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—Gravy saved from the meat, 1 teaspoonful of tomato sauce, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey’s sauce, 1 teaspoonful of good mushroom ketchup, £ a glass of port or strong ale, pepper and salt to taste, a little flour to thicken, 1 onion finely minced, a few slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Put all the ingredients but the beef into a stewpan with what- ever gravy may have been saved from the meat the day it was roasted ; let these simmer gently for 10 minutes, then take the stewpan off the fire; let the gravy cool, and skim off the fat. Cut the beef into thin slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them in the gravy; let the whole simmer gently for 5 minutes, but not boil, or the meat will be tough and hard. Serve very hot, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 6d. Seasonable at any time. 894.—HASHED BEEF. (Fr.— Eminc6 de Bceuf.) (Cold Meat Cookery. Another Mode.) Ingredients.—The remains of ribs or sirloin of beef, 2 onions, 1 carrot, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, £ blade of pounded mace, thickening of flour, rather more than 1 pint of water. Mode.—Take off all the meat from the bones of ribs or sirloin of beef; remove the outside brown and gristle ; place the meat on one side ; and well stew the bones and pieces, with the above ingredients, for about 2 hours, till it becomes a strong gravy, and is reduced to rather more than half a pint; strain this, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, and let the gravy cool; skim off all the fat; lay in the meat, let it get hot through, but do not allow it to boil, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The gravy may be flavoured as in the preceding recipe. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 2d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Either of the above recipes may be served in walls of mashed pota- toes browned ; in which case the sippets should be omitted. Be careful that hashed meat does not boil, or it will become tough.