CHAPTER III. ARRANGEMENT AND ECONOMY OF THE KITCHEN. 63. Writers on Domestic Economy, &c.—There are few, if any, of those who have turned their attention to domestic economy and architecture, who have written on these important subjects with better effect than Sir Ben- jamin Thompson, an American chemist and physicist, better known as “ Count Rumford,” a title of nobility bestowed upon him by the king of Bavaria, in whose service he remained from 1783 to 1802. He did not, however, go as deeply and fully into the design and construction of that part of the dwelling- house that is chiefly devoted to culinary purposes, when he contented himself with declaring that "the distribution of a kitchen must always depend so much on local circumstances that general rules can hardly be given respecting it,” and that “ the principles on which this distribution ought in all cases to be made are simple and easy to be understood,” these principles resolving themselves, in his estimation, into symmetry of proportion in the building, and convenience to the cook. 64. Requisites of a Good Kitchen.—That the Count is perfectly ri"ht in his general, though somewhat broad, premises, no one will be disposed to°deny ; nevertheless, the requisites of a good kitchen demand something more special than is here pointed out. It must be remembered that it is the great laboratory of every household, and that much cf the family “weal or woe,” as far as regards bodily health, depends upon the nature of the preparations con- cocted within its walls. In the construction and disposition of a kitchen, there- fore, in order that it may thoroughly serve the purposes for which it is designed, due regard should be had to the following particulars: (1.) Convenience of distribution in its parts, with largeness of dimension. (2.) Excellence of light, height of ceiling, and good ventilation. (3.) Easiness of access, without passing through the house. (4.) Sufficient remoteness from the principal apartments of the house, that the members, visitors, or guests of the family may not perceive the odour incidental to cooking, or hear the noise of culinary operations. (5.) Plenty of fuel and water, which, with the scullery, pantry, and store- room, should be so near the kitchen as to offer the smallest possible trouble in reaching them. . In addition to these important points, the equipment of the kitchen further demands consideration, under which term is comprised its fittings, its fixtures, its furniture, and the utensils that should be found in the kitchen itself and the adjacent back kitchen, or scullery for household and culinary uses. It will be convenient to consider the first three items as forming one division of our subject, and the last, as another ; the portability, or mobility from place to place, of the various articles comprehended in the second division forming the chief point of distinction between them and those which more naturally find a place in the first. 65. Names of Manufacturers, Dealers, &c—Before entering on these matters seriatim it should be said that in describing special articles and