xi84 General Observations on Beverages. Greeks and Romans. Pepys says, in his diary—“ September 25th, 1661.—I sent for a cup of tea(a China drink), of which I had never drunk before.” Two years later it was so rare a commodity in England that the English East India Com- pany bought 2 lbs. 2 oz. of it as a present for his Majesty. In 1666 it was sold in London for sixly shillings a pound. From that date the consumption has gone on increasing from 5,000 lbs. to 50,000,000 lbs. 2640. The Tea Plant.—Linnaeus was induced to think that there were two species of tea-plant, one of which produced the black, and the other the green teas ; but later observations do not confirm this. When the leaves of black and green tea are expanded by hot water, and examined by the botanist, though a difference of character is perceived, yet this is not sufficient to authorise consider- ing them as distinct species. The tea-tree flourishes best in temperate regions ; in China it is indigenous. The part of China where the best tea is cultivated is called by us the “ tea country.” The cultivation of the plant requires great care. It is raised chiefly on the sides of hills; and, in order to increase the quantity and improve the quality of the leaves, the shrub is pruned, so as not to exceed the height of from two to three feet, much in the same manner as the vine is treated in France. They pluck the leaves, one selecting them according to the kinds of tea required ; and notwithstanding the tediousness of the operation, each labourer is able to gather from four to ten or fifteen pounds a day. When the trees attain to six or seven years of age, the produce becomes so inferior that they are removed to make room for a fresh succession, or they are cut down to allow of numerous young shoots. Teas of the finest flavour consist of the youngest leaves; and as these are gathered at four different periods of the year, the younger the leaves the higher flavoured the tea, and the scarcer, and conse- quently the dearer the article. 2641. Indian Tea.—Much Indian tea is now brought to this country, and is, as a rule, more highly flavoured than the Chinese, so that it is used for mixing with the Chinese. The best Indian tea is high priced, but not, therefore, neces- sarily dear, as some tea is heavy and some light, so that a teaspoonful does not bear the same ratio to every pound, nor produce the same strength of infusion. “Strong, brisk, family tea” is generally warranted to produce the greatest quantity of the blackest liquid from a given number of spoonfuls, but the connois- seur does not need to be told that the best tea generally produces a pale-coloured infusion, and that depth of colour is not an invariable sign of strength. Orange, mandarin, Imperial pekoe are sold sparingly in this country, generally to mix with other qualities. Caravan tea comes overland to Russia, where it is sold at an immense price, on the supposition that a sea voyage destroys the flavour. Some is brought to this country. Twankay, Hyson and Gunpowder are green teas. Tea, when chemically analysed, is found to contain woody fibre, extractives, colouring matters, and mineral ash. A more important constituent is the tannin, or tannic acid, to which it owes its bitter taste, particularly noticeable when the tea has stood for a long time, or has been boiled. It is to the tannin that its decided and often baneful effects upon the digestive organs are ascribed, effects that are most noticeable in those persons who have the habit of drinking tea that has stood, or “ drawn ” for a length of time. The constituent theine is now found to be identical with caffeine in coffee, theobromine in cocoa, and with the vegetable alkaloid found in mate, the tea of Paraguay. It must be considered as something more than a coincidence that men under widely different circumstances of life, and in widely removed countries, should have brought into universal use beverages of identical effect, obtained from plants of entirely different species. T ea is not to be looked upon as an article of food. The nourishment it