Toasted Cheese. 1169 2605.—CHEESE BISCUITS. Ingredients.—Any pieces of very good light puff paste. Cheshire Parmesan, or Stilton cheese. Mode.—The remains or odd pieces of paste left from large tarts, &c., answer for making these little dishes. Gather up the pieces of paste, roll it out evenly, and sprinkle it with grated cheese of a nice flavour. Fold the paste in three, roll it out again, and sprinkle more cheese over; fold the paste, roll it out, and with a paste-cutter shape it in any way that may be desired. Bake the biscuits in a brisk oven from xo to 15 minutes, dish them on a hot napkin, and serve quickly. The appearance of this dish may be very much improved by brushing the biscuits over with yolk of egg before they are placed in the oven. Where expense is not objected to, Parmesan is the best kind of cheese to use for making this dish. See also Cheese Straws. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, with | lb. of paste, xod. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2606.—CHEESE BISCUITS. (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of grated cheese, 3 oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, cayenne and salt, 3 oz. flour. Mode.—Mix the flour and the cheese, which should have been well seasoned with cayenne and a very little salt, knead in the butter and make it into a paste with the yolk of an egg. Roll it out to the thickness of an eighth of an inch, cut it in biscuits of any shape or size according to fancy, and bake a light brown in a quick oven. The biscuits will keep for a long time in a tin, and can be heated when wanted. Time.—10 minutes to bake the biscuits. Average Cost, yd. Seasonable at any time. 2607.—TOASTED CHEESE, OR SCOTCH RARE-BIT. Ingredients.—A few slices of rich cheese, toast, mustard, and pepper. Mode.—Cut some nice rich sound cheese into rather thin slices ; melt it in a cheese-toaster on a hot plate, or over steam, and, when melted, add a small quantity of mixed mustard and a seasoning of pepper; stir the cheese until it is completely dissolved, then brown it before the fire, or with a salamander. Fill the bottom of the cheese-toaster with hot water, and serve with dry or buttered toasts, whichever may be preferred. Our engraving illustrates a cheese-toaster with hot-water reservoir; the cheese is melted in the upper tin. which is HOT-WATER CHEESE-DISH.