3i9 Hollandaise Sauce 701.—CUSTARD SAUCE. (Ft.—Creme a I’Eau de Vie.) (For Sweet Puddings or Tarts.) Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 2 eggs, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, x table- spoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the milk in a very clean saucepan, and let it boil. Beat the eggs, stir to them the milk and pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug. Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water; keep stirring it well until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Serve the sauce in a tureen, stir in the brandy, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. This sauce may be made very much nicer by using cream instead of milk ; but the above recipe will be found quite good enough for ordinary purposes. Average Cost, 6d. per pint. Sufficient, this quantity, for 2 fruit-tarts or 1 pudding. 702—D ARK SAUCE. (Por Game, Fish, Cutlets, &c.) Ingredients.—1 onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 oz. of butter, i pint of stock (No. 274) or gravy ; 1 glass of port, 2 tablespoonfuls blackcurrant jam, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, a bay leaf, 3 cloves, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of chili vinegar or some cayenne. Mode.—Chop the onion, and put it with the flour and butter to brown in a saucepan, add the stock, a small piece of lemon-peel, and the other ingredients. Boil for 6 minutes, then strain. Time.—15 minutes altogether. Average Cost, 9d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 703.—DUTCH SAUCE. (Fr —Sauce Hollandaise.) (For Fish.) Ingredients.—i teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice of i lemon, salt to taste. Mode.—Put all the ingredients, except the lemon-juice, into a stew- pan ; set it over the fire, and keep continually stirring. When it is suf- ficiently thick, take it off, as it should not boil. If, however, it happens to curdle, strain the sauce through a tammy, add the lemon-juice, and serve. Tarragon vinegar may be used instead of plain, and, by many, is considered fai preferable. Average Cost, 6d.