llio Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. 2450.-RICE BISCUITS OR CAKES. Ingredients.—To every £ lb. of rice-flour, allow £ lb. of pounded lump sugar, ^ lb. of butter, 2 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the rice-flour and pounded sugar, and moisten the whole with the eggs, which should be previously well beaten. Roll out the paste, shape it with a round paste-cutter into small cakes, and bake them from 12 to 18 minutes in a very slow oven. Time.—12 to 18 minutes. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient to make about 18 cakes. Seasonable at any time. Ground Rice, or Rice-flour, is used for making several kinds of cakes, also for thickening soups. The Americans make rice-bread, and prepare the flour for it in the following mannerWhen the rice is thoroughly cleansed, the water is drawn off, and the rice, while damp, bruised in a mortar; it is then dried, and passed through a hair-sieve. 2451.-ROCK BISCUITS. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 1 lb. of sifted sugar, i lb. of flour, a few Currants. Mode.—Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well until very light, add the pounded sugar, and when this is well mixed with the eggs, dredge in the flour gradually, and add the currants. Mix all well together, and put the dough, with a fork, on the tins, making it look as rough as possible. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to half an hour; when they are done, allow them to get cool, and store them away in a tin canister, in a dry place. Time.—20 minutes to £ hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Seasonable at any time. 2452.-SAVOY BISCUITS OR CAKES. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 6 0z. of pounded sugar, the rind oi 1 lemon, 6 oz. of flour. Mode.—Break the eggs into a basin, separating the whites from the yolks; beat the yolks well, mix with them the pounded sugar and grated lemon-rind, and beat these ingredients together for a quarter of an hour. Then dredge in the flour gradually, and when the whites of the eggs have been whisked to a solid froth, stir them to the flour, &c.; beat the mixture well for another 5 minutes, then draw it along in strips upon thick cartridge paper to the proper size of the biscuit, and bake them in rather a hot oven ; but let them be carefully watched, as they are soon done, and a few seconds over the proper time will scorch and spoil them. These biscuits, or ladies’-fingers, as they are called, are used for making Charlotte Russes, and a variety of fancy sweet dishes.