Gooseberry Fool. 929 Time.—Ai>out 10 minutes to stir the cream over the fire. Average Cost, with isinglass, 3s. ; with gelatine, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Seasonable at any time. Preserved Ginger comes to us from the West Indies. It is made by scalding the roots when they are green and full of sap, then peeling them in cold water, and putting them into jars, with a rich syrup ; in which state we receive them. It should be chosen of a bright yellow colour, with a little transparency ; what is dark-coloured, fibrous and stringy, is not good. Ginger roots, fit for preserving, and in size equal to West Indian, have been produced in the Royal Agricul- tural Gardens in Edinburgh. 1987—TO MAKE GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Ingredients.—Green gooseberries ; to every pint of pulp add 1 pint of milk, or £ pint of cream and ^ pint of milk ; sugar to taste. Mofle.—Cut the tops and tails off the gooseberries ; put them into a jar, with 2 tablespoonfuls of water and a little good moist sugar; set this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil until the fruit is soft enough to mash. When done enough, beat it to a pulp, work this pulp through a colander, and stir to every pint the above proportion of milk, or equal quantities of milk and cream. Ascertain if the mixture is sweet enough and put in plenty of sugar, or it will not be eatable ; and, in mixing, add the milk ve.ry gradually to the gooseberries; serve in a glass dish, or in small glasses. This, although a very old-fashioned and homely dish, is, when well made, very delicious, and, if properly sweetened, a very suitable preparation for children. Time.—From f to 1 hour. Average Cost, 6d. per pint, with milk. Sufficient.—A pint of milk and a pint of gooseberry pulp for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable in May and June. 1988.—GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. Ingredients.—1 quart of gooseberries, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard, No. 1969, a plateful of whipped cream. Mode.—Put the gooseberries into a jar, with sufficient moist sugar to sweeten them, and boil them until reduced to a pulp. Put this pulp at the bottom of a trifie-dish ; pour over it a pint of custard, made by recipe No. 1969, and, when cold, cover with whipped cream. The'cream should be whipped the day before it is wanted for table, as it will then be so much firmer and more solid. This dish may be garnished as fancy dictates. Time.—About \ hour to boil the gooseberries. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 1 trifle. Seasonable in May and June.