1069 Almond Paste. Mode.—Make a syrup with 2 pints of water and the sugar, and clear with the whites of the eggs and the juice of the lemon. Dissolve the starch in half a pint of cold water, strain and add it to the syrup when boiling and continue to boil till the mixture is stringy and thick, then flavour. Have ready two large dishes, one oiled, the other covered with sifted sugar, pour the syrup on the oiled one, let it cool a minute or so, then turn on to the sugared one, absorb the oil if necessary with white blotting paper, and cover with sugar after cutting into squares. RECIPES FOR PREPARATIONS USED FOR ORNAMENTAL PASTRY. 2348.-A LMOND PASTE. Ingredients.—I lb. of Jordan almonds, 2 lbs. of pounded loaf sugar, 2 oz. of gum tragacanth, water. Mode.—Steep the almonds for 15 hours, then blanch, dry and pound them, and press through a hair sieve. Soak the gum for 12 hours in half a pint of water, squeeze it through a cloth on to a marble slab, and mix with it, working it thoroughly, 1 lb. of the sugar in small quantities, mix the almonds also in small quantities, then the rest of the sugar, put it in a basin covered with a damp cloth in a cool place. When wanted, add more pounded sugar till it becomes a stiff paste, with whatever colouring is desired. 2349.—BISCUIT PASTE. Ingredients.—i lb. of flour, 8 eggs, 1 lb. of lump sugar, £ pint of water. Mode.—Put the sugar and water into a copper sugar boiler and boil till a little of the syrup, skimmed off and put quickly into cold water, can be rolled up into a ball. Break the eggs, dividing the yolks from the whites, mix the former with the flour, and when half cold add the sugar, and lastly the whites, previously well beaten. 2350.—CHOU PASTE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of flour, £ lb. of butter, 8 eggs, £ oz. of pounded sugar, 1 pint of water. Mbde. —Put the water, butter, and sugar into a stewpan, and when the mixture comes to the boil, add the flour, stirring over the fire for a few minutes. Break the eggs, and add them one by one, till the paste is of