14^4 Women Servants' Duties. DUSTING-BRUSH. almost essential that a housemaid, in a small family, should be an expert needle- woman ; as, if she be a good manager and an active girl, she will have time on her hands to get through plenty of work. 3286. Periodical Cleanings. — Besides the daily routine which we have described, there are portions of every house which can only he thoroughly cleansed occasionally ; at which time the whole house usually undergoes a more thorough cleaning than is permitted in the general way. On these occa- sions it is usual to begin at the top of the house and clean downwards ; moving everything out of the rooms; washing the wainscoting or paint with soft soap and water ; pulling down the beds and thoroughly cleansing all the joints ; “ scrub- bing ” the floor ; beating feather beds, mattress, and palliasse, and thoroughly purifying every article of furniture before it is put back in its place. 3287. ;Spring Cleaning.—This general cleaning usually takes place in the spring or early summer, when the warm curtains of winter are replaced by the light and cheerful muslin ones. Carpets are at the same time taken up and beaten, except where the mistress of the house has been worried into an experiment by the often- reiterated question, “ Why beat your carpets ? ” In this case she will probably have made up her mind to try the cleaning process, and arranged with the company to send for them on the morning when cleaning commenced. It is hardly necessary to repeat that on this occasion every article is to be gone over, and the French-polished furniture well rubbed and polished. The same thorough system of cleaning should be done throughout the house ; the walls cleaned where painted, and swept down with a soft broom or feather brush where papered ; the window and bed curtains, which have been replaced with muslin ones, carefully brushed, or, if they require it, cleaned ; lamps not likely to be required washed out with hot water, dried and cleaned. The several grates should be furnished with their summer ornaments. As winter approaches, this house-cleaning will have to be repeated, and the warm bed and window curtains replaced. The process of scouring and cleaning is again necessary, and must be gone through, beginning at the top, and going through the house, down to the kitchens. 3288. Occasional Work.—Independently of these daily and periodical cleanings, other occupations will pre- sent themselves from time to time which the housemaid will have to perform. When spots show on polished furniture they can generally be restored by soap-and-water and q sponge, the polish being brought out by using a little polish, and then well rubbing it. Again, drawers which draw out stiffly may be made to move more easily if the spot where they press is rubbed over with a little soap. Chips broken off any of the furniture should be collected and replaced, by means of a little glue applied to them. Liquid glue, which is sold prepared in bottles, is very useful housemaid's brushes. ‘° ^ in houle: as k squires no melting ; and anything t broken can be with it quickly repaired. Breaking glass and china is about the most disagreeable thing that can happen