Domestic Utensils—Outfit of Kitchen. 89 Carried up .. .. £25 8 6 Carried up.. .. £35 11 6 cotton wool. We have, therefore, an uniform low temperature, though the ice has been gradually diminishing, great saving in its consumption, together with the convenience of having only to replenish the hopper at stated long intervals. The annexed illustration is an interior view of a cabinet constructed for block of rough ice, showing:—a, the hopper, containing the ice when first put in ; b, the narrow V-shaped well, into which the ice gravitates; c, the tank for iced water ; d, the compartments to contain articles to be refrigerated. As the ice descends into the V-shaped well the vacant space left in the hopper a may be utilised for wines, &c. This machine is made in well seasoned deal, painted and grained oak, with patent metal water tank and silver-plated tap, in eight sizes, from No. x, which is 3 feet 3 inches high, 2 feet 5 inches wide, and 1 foot 9 inches deep, and costs £11 ios., to No. 8, which is 5 feet 10 inches high, 5 feet 9 inches wide, and 2 feet 4 inches deep, and costs /41 105. 185. Complete List of Domestic Utensils.—Here we must bring our notices of utensils that mostly find a place in the kitchen to a close, omitting many an article of less importance not likely to be called so frequently into use. Everything necessary for a family, whether large or small, is included in the following complete specifications of domestic utensils, which are drawn from the catalogue of Messrs. Adams and Son, Furnishing Ironmongers, 57, Haymarket, London, S.W., and which will show at a glance the articles required for the kitchens of families, ranging from those for whom a small cottage affords suffi- cient accommodation to those who have an income large enough to warrant the occupation of a mansion. For a mansion, whose many guests are ever coming and going, and where a large number of domestics are kept, a great number of articles will be required, and these are set forth in specification No. 1. In speci- fication No. 2 everything is included that is necessary for culinary operations in a family whose head is possessed of ample means. Specification No. 3 includes those articles which should be found in comparatively small houses ; whilst in specification No. 4 such things only are enumerated as are indispensable to a family possessed of a small income, and moving in a comparatively humble sphere of life. 186 Specifications and Estimates for Outfit of Kitchens.— The following Specifications and Estimates, it may be said, have been carefully prepared under the immediave supervision of the late Mr. C. Elme Francatelli, with a view of enabling pexsons furnishing their houses to choose at once a proper selection of Ironmongery for either large or small kitchens. They are exclusive of tinnery and brushes. Each specification is complete in itself, and any of the articles mentioned in there may be had singly at the same prices. All goods, it must be borne in mind, are subject to 10 per cent, discount for Cash. SPECIFICATION No. I. This Specification is complete and suitable for any Mansion. £ s. cl. S Copper Stewpans, in sizes ; 1 pint to 9 quarts 7 18 o 1 5-Gallon Copper Stock Pot, with Saute-Pan Cover, with Tap .. .. 3 15 o 1 Copper Bainmarie, complete ; with 9 Stewpans, 1 Soup Pot, and 1 Glaze Pot 7 10 o 2 Copper Saut^-Pans, in sizes .. .. 116 1 Copper Praizing Pan, with Drainer and Charcoal Fire Cover .. .. 310 o 1 Copper Egg Bowl o 18 o 1 Copper Sugar Boiler 0 16 0 £ s. d. Amount brought up 25 8 6 1 Copper Preserving Pan 1 16 o 2 Copper Jelly Moulds 150 1 Copper Charlotte Mould 040 1 Copper Baba Mould o 18 6 1 Copper Fricandeau Pan 220 1 Wrought-iron Omelette Pan .. .. 070 1 Wrought-iron Fat Pan with Drainer for frying fish, &c o 15 o 1 Tinned Wrought-iron Dripping Pan, with Well, and on iron legs 2 10 o r Basting Ladle o 5 6