g6o Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Seasonable at any time. Time.—2 minutes. Average Cost, lod. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—“ Tous les mois ” is a fine kind of arrowroot 2050.—STRAWBERRY JELLY. (Fr.—Gelee aux Fraises.) Ingredients.—Strawberries, pounded sugar ; to every pint of juice allow i£ oz. of isinglass or gelatine. Mode.—Pick the strawberries, put them into a pan, squeeze them well with a wooden spoon, add sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten them nicely, and let them remain for 1 hour, that the juice may be extracted; then add half a pint of water to every pint of juice. Strain the straw- berry-juice and water through a bag; measure it,. and to every pint allow i£ oz. of isinglass or gelatine, cleared in a quarter pint of water. Mix this with the juice ; put the jelly into a mould, and set the mould in ice. A little lemon-juice added to the strawberry-juice improves the flavour of the jelly, if the fruit is very ripe ; but it must be well strained before it is put to the other ingredients, or it will make the jelly muddy. Time.—I hour to draw the juice. Average Cost, with isinglass, 2s.; with gelatine, is. 6d. Sufficient.—Allow pint of jelly for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August. 2051.-SWISS CREAM. Ingredients.—£ lb. of macaroons or 6 small sponge-cakes, sherry, 1 pint of cream, 5 oz. of lump sugar, 2 large tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice of £ a lemon, 3 tablespoonfuls of milk. Mode.—Lay the macaroons or sponge-cakes in a glass dish, and pour over them as much sherry as will cover them, or sufficient to soak them well. Put the cream into a lined saucepan, with the sugar and lemon-rind, and let it remain by the side of the fire until the cream is well flavoured, when take out the lemon-rind. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cold milk ; add this to the cream, and let it boil gently for about 3 minutes, keeping it well stirred. Take it off the fire, stir till nearly cold, when add the lemon-juice, and pour the whole over the cakes. Garnish the cream with strips of angelica, candied citron cut thin, or bright-coloured jelly or preserve. This cream is exceedingly delicious, flavoured with vanilla instead of lemon ; when this flavouring is used, the sherry may be omitted, and the mixture poured over the dry cakes. Time.—About \ hour to infuse the lemon-rind ; 5 minutes to boil the cream. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.