640 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. be left until the following day, and served garnished with the jelly, which should be firm, and very clear and well-flavoured; the liquor in which a calf’s foot has been boiled down, added to the broth, will give it the neces- sary degree of consistence. 3:337.—TO BONE FOWLS, for Fricassees, Curries and Pies. First carve them entirely into joints, then remove the bones, beginning with the legs and wings, at the head of the largest bone; hold this with the fingers, and work the knife as directed in the recipe above. The remainder of the bird is too easily done to require any instructions. 1338.-TO DRESS WHEATEARS. Ingredients.—Wheatears ; fresh butter. Mode.—After the birds are picked, gutted and cleaned, truss them like larks, put them down to a quick fire, and baste them well with fresh butter. When done, which will be in about twenty minutes, dish them on fried bread-crumbs, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, from 6d. each. Seasonable from July to October. The Wheatear.—The Wheatear is an annual visitor of England; it arrives about the middle of March and leaves in September. The females come about a fortnight before the males, and continue to arrive till the middle of May. They are in season from July to October, and are taken in large numbers on the South Downs, in the neighbourhood of Eastbourne, Brighton and other parts of Sussex. They are taken by means of snares and nets, and numbers of them are eaten on the spot by the inhabitants. The larger ones are sent to London and potted, where they are by many as much esteemed as the ortolans of the Continent. Mr. Pennant assigns as the reason of their abounding on the downs about Eastbourne, the ex- istence of a species of fly which forms their favourite food.and which feeds on the wild thyme on the adjacent hills. 1338A.-CHICKEN OR PARTRIDGE CREAM. {Fr.—Creme de Volaille.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of the white meat of chicken or breasts of part- ridges, raw, £ pint of double cream, salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Mode.—After skinning, scrape the flesh quite free from sinew and skin, chop it, then pound it in a mortar till it is a smooth paste, season it, then add the cream, and rub all through a wire sieve. Butter an open casse- role, and fill it with the cream, covering it with buttered paper. Have ready a saucepan, in which there should not be more than a pint of boiling water, into which put the cream, cover the saucepan, and stand it off the fire to steam very slowly for about 25 minutes. Turn out and serve gar- nished with sliced truffles. Time.—25 minutes to steam. Average Cost, with chicken, 4s.; with partridge, 5s.