General Observations on Beverages. ii86 pence a gallon, when made into a beverage. In the course of two centuries, how- ever, this berry, unknown originally as an article of food, except to some savage tribes on the confines of Abyssinia, has made its way through the whole of the civilised world. Mahommedans of all ranks drink coffee twice a day ; it is in universal request in France ; and the demand for it throughout the British Isles is daily increasing, the more especially since so much attention has been given to mechanical contrivances for roasting and grinding the berry and prepar* mg the beverage. 2646. Of the various kinds of coffee, the Arabian is considered the best. It is grown chiefly in the districts of Aden and Mocha ; whence the name of our Mocha coffee. Mocha coffee has a smaller and rounder bean than any other, and likewise a more agreeable smell and taste. The next in reputation and quality is the Java and Ceylon coffee, and then the coffees of Bourbon and Martinique, and that of Berbice, a district of the colony of British Guiana. The Jamaica and St. Domingo coffees are less esteemed. A considerable change takes place in the arrangement of the constituents of coffee by the application of heat in roasting it. Independently of one of the objects of roasting, namely, that of destroying its toughness and rendering it easily ground, its tannin and other principles are rendered partly soluble in water; and it is to the tannin that the brown colour of the decoction of coffee is owing. An aromatic flavour is likewise developed during torrefaction, which is not per- ceived in the raw berry, and which is not produced in the greatest perfection until the heat has arrived at a certain degree of temperature; but if the heat be increased beyond this, the flavour is again dissipated, and little remains but a bitter and astringent matter, with carbon. 2647. The roasting of coffee in the best manner requires great nicety, and much of the qualities of the beverage depends upon the operation. The roasting of coffee for the dealers in London and Paris has now become a separate branch of business, and some of the roasters perform the operation on a great scale, with considerable skill. Roasted coffee loses from 20 to 30 per cent, by sufficient roasting, and the powder suffers much by '^S|Sjp> exposure to the air ; but, while raw, it not only does liiilmra not l°se its flavour for a year or two, but improves by MBs a keeping. If a cup of the best coffee be placed upon a g.—jSjiBii table boiling hot, it will fill the room with its fragrance but tbe coffee, when warmed again after being cold 1 . ii._~ will be found to have lost most of its flavour. \ 2648. To have coffee in perfection, it should A fLpa "Hifro be roasted and ground just before it is used, and more Jl Ik H should not be ground at a time than is wanted for w immediate use, or if it be necessary to grind more, it coffee-grinder. should be kept closed from the air. Coffee readily imbibes exhalations from other substances, and thus often acquires a bad flavour; brown sugar placed near it will communicate a disagreeable flavour. It is stated that the coffee in the West Indies has often been injured by being laid in rooms near the sugar works, or where rum is dis- tilled ; and the same effect has been produced by bringing over coffee in the same ships with rum and sugar. Dr. Moseley mentions that a few bags of pepper, on board a ship from India, spoiled a whole cargo of coffee. With respect to the quantity of coffee used in making the decoction, much depends upon the taste of the consumer. The greatest and most common fault in English coffee is the too small quantity of the ingredient. Count Rumford says that to make good coffee for drinking after dinner, a pound of good Mocha