Recipes for Cooking Fish. 246 520.—FRIED PERCH. (Fr.—Perche Frit.) Ingredients.—Egg and bread-crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Scale and clean the fish, brush it over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Have ready some boiling lard ; put the fish in, and fry a nice brown. Serve with plain melted butter or anchovy sauce. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. to is. each. Seasonable from June to February. Note.—Fry tench in the same way. 521.-PERCH STEWED WITH WINE. (Fr.—Perche au Vin Blanc.) Ingredients.—Equal quantities of stock No. 273 and sherry, 1 bay- leaf, 1 clove of garlic, a small bunch of parsley, 2 cloves, salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour, pepper, grated nutmeg, £ a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Mode.—Scale the fish and take out the gills, and clean them thoroughly; lay them in a stewpan with sufficient stock and sherry just to cover them. Put in the bay-leaf, garlic, parsley, cloves and salt, and simmer till tender. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, add a thickening of butter and flour, the pepper, nutmeg and the anchovy sauce, and stir it over the fire until somewhat reduced, when pour over the fish, and serve. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. to IS. each. Seasonable from June to February. 522.—BAKED PIKE. (Fr.—Brochet Farci.) Ingredients.—2 pike, a nice delicate stuffing (see Forcemeats) ; 1 egg, bread-crumbs, J lb. of butter. Mode.—Scale the fish, take out the gills, wash and wipe it thoroughly dry; stuff it with forcemeat, sew it up, and fasten the tail in the mouth by means of a skewer; brush it over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and baste with butter before putting it in the oven, which must be well heated. When the pike is of a nice brown colour, cover it with buttered paper, as the outside would become too dry. If two are dressed, a little variety may be made by making one of them green with a little chopped parsley mixed with the bread-crumbs. Serve anchovy or Dutch sauce and plain melted butter with it. Time.—According to size, 1 hour, more or less. Average Cost, is. 8d. Seasonable from September to February, Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—Pike d la genevcse may be stewed in the same manner as salmon a la genevcse.