957 Rice Snowballs. Mode.—Swell the rice in the milk, with the sugar and butter, over a slow fire until it is perfectly tender, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. When the rice is done, strain away the milk, should there be any left, and mix with it the marmalade and well-beaten eggs; stir the whole over the fire until the eggs are set; then spread the mixture on a dish to the thickness of about half an inch, or rather thicker. When it is perfectly cold, cut it into long strips, dip them in a batter the same as for apple fritters, and fry them a nice brown. Dish them on a white d’oyley, strew sifted sugar over and serve quickly. Time.—About £ hour to swell the rice; from 7 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 fritters. Seasonable at any time. 2045.—RICE SNOWBALLS. (Fr.—Riz aux Amandes a la Creme.) (A Pretty Dish for Juvenile Suppers.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, flavouring of essence oi almonds, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard made by recipe No. 1969. Mode.—Boil the rice in the milk, with sugar and a flavouring of essence of almonds, until the former is tender, adding, if necessary, a little more milk, should it dry away too much. When the rice is quite soft, put it into teacups, or small round jars, and let it remain until cold; then turn the rice out on a deep glass dish, pour over a custard made by recipe No. 1969, and, on the top of each ball, place a small piece of bright- coloured preserve or jelly. Lemon-peel or vanilla may be boiled with the rice instead of the essence of almonds, when either of these is preferred ; but the flavouring of the custard must correspond with that of the rice. Time.—About f hour to swell the rice in the milk. Average Cost, with the custard, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable at any time. 2046.—TO MAKE A SOUFFLE. (Fr.—Souffle.) Ingredients. — 3 heaped tablespoonfuls of potato-flour, rice-flour, arrowroot, or tapioca, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, sifted sugar to taste, 1 saltspoonful of salt, flavouring. Mode.—Mix the potato-flour, or whichever of the above ingre- dients is used, with a little of the milk; put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the milk, the butter, salt, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Stir these ingredients over the fire, until the mixture thickens; then take it off the fire, and let it cool a little. Sepa-