AN ENGLISH BREAKFAST-TABLE. CHAPTER LX. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON BREAKFASTS. WITH MENUS FOR WEDDING. GUEST AND FAMILY BREAKFASTS. 2999. English Breakfasts.—Some one has said that English people do not know how to appreciate this meal, and there are certainly many who aver that they either do not care for it or cannot eat it, but we venture to suggest that if the former were to contrive to have more variety in the dishes served with this meal, and the latter were to make quite sure that no late hours or gaiety made them disinclined for it, both might find better appetites. To begin the day well is a grand thing, and a good breakfast at a reasonable hour is an excellent foundation for a day’s work, or even pleasure ; while, having made one good meal, we can better afford, should it be necessary by business or other engagements, to put off or delay the following meals. 3000. Breakfast Dishes.—One thing is quite certain, that in a large Majority of houses we do not find sufficient variety of food at breakfast; in fact, some people's ideas never seem to soar above the national standard one of eggs and bacon. There may be those who can with relish eat this dish every day of their lives, but there are a very great number who require a constant change of food to enjoy their breakfast. There is no reason why this should not be found. Little dainty dishes for this meal can so often be made from scraps that would otherwise be wasted, while many cost but little; in fact, it is more the case of taking a little trouble than the going to any expense to have new dishes. In the following breakfast menus, which take a wide range—from the orthodox wedding one to the plain family affair, for people with different incomes—we hope to give some that will be useful in enabling housekeepers to vary the monotony of the daily fare, recipes for each dish named being given in the body of the book. 3001. Laying the Table.—The breakfast-table may have a tray upon it or not, as may be preferred; or if coffee and tea (which is customary) both be served, two trays, or the cups, saucers, &c., of the different sets, set out at opposite ends of the table. The elder daughter, or next “ right hand” of the mistress, usually serves the coffee, which is at the bottom of the table, whilst the mistress presides at the head. Where there cannot, however, be two lady pre- sidents, the coffee and tea services must both be at the upper end, the one on the left, and the other on the right of the lady. Arrange these in a neat circle, or, if the two sets, in two semi-circles, leaving spaces in the middle for the coffee-pot and teapot; the milk and cream-jugs fronting the cups behind, and