Duties of the Parlour-maid. 1475 house, in his master or mistress's presence ; nor offer any opinion unless arked for it; nor even to say “ good night,” or “good morning,”except in reply to that salutation. THE PARLOUR-MAID. 3267. A parlour maid is kept in many households in place of a single footman, and in these cases her duties (indoor duties we should say) are practi- cally the same as his, with attendance on her mistress in place of that given by him to his master. In some households a single man- servant and parlour-maid are both kept, but where there is more than one man-servant she is not needed, as they do all the work of answering the door, waiting at table, &c. In many families of good income a parlour-maid is preferred to a man-servant, as giving less trouble, doing more work, and where no lady’s-maid is kept, being available for some small services for her mistress and waiting upon her when required. In households of three servants (the other two, cook and housemaid, with, perhaps, a kitchen-maid beside) she is most often found, and in such a household it will be best to detail her work. We are of course not reckoning the nursery and its attendants in speaking of the servants, as the former are, or should be, a thing apart, and the cook would be the only one to whom the existence of a nursery, properly arranged, would give any extra work J r r THE PARLOUR-MAID. 3268. The duties of the parlour-maid are, as we have before said, very much the same as those of the single man-servant. She opens the door to visitors, shows them into the drawing-room, brings up afternoon tea, and clears it away, lays the table for luncheon and dinner, and waits during the latter meal, with or without the assistance of the housemaid; she keeps the linen in repair, waits upon her mistress, assisting her to dress when required, also upon any lady visitor. She has often to help in bed making, and is generally required to dust the drawing-room, often to arrange the flowers for that and the dining-room, to put up fresh curtains, look after the drawing-room fire, and answer the sitting-room bell. She washes up the breakfast, tea and coffee things, and the glass and plate from dinner, and the plate is under her charge to be kept clean and in order. She does, in fact, all the lighter and less menial work of a housemaid, combining with these many little tasks that a mistress who kept only two servants would in all probability do for her- self. 3269. Everyday Dress.—A parlour-maid is always required to dress nicely ; no heavy or dirty work falls to her share, therefore she should be always neat and clean. As a housemaid, her morning attire should be a print gown and simple white cap, but she will not need the rough apron worn by the former, and can wear a *vhite one, so that she is always ready to answer bells. In t‘he afternoon her dress should be a simply-made black one, relieved by white collar, cuffs and cap, and a pretty lace-trimmed bib apron. We know