502 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. time the mutton is ready. Garnish the dish with carrots and turnips placed alternately round the mutton. Time.—4 lbs. of the neck of mutton, about i| hour. Average Cost, l\d. per lb. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Poets on Sheep.—The keeping of flocks seems to have been the first employment of man- kind ; and the most ancient sort of poetry was probably pastoral. The poem known as the Pastoral gives a picture of the life of the simple shepherds of the golden age, who are supposed to have beguiled their time in singing. In all pastorals, repeated allusions are made to the “fleecy flocks," the “ milk-white lambs," and “ the tender ewes; ” indeed, the sheep occupy a position in these poems inferior only to that of the shepherds who tend them. The “nibbling sheep” has ever been a favourite of the poets, and has supplied them with figures and similes without end. Shakspere frequently compares men to sheep. When Gloster rudely drives the lieutenant from the side of Henry VI., the poor king thus touchingly speaks of his helplessness :— “ So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf: So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece, And next hisjthroat unto the butcher’s knife.’’ In the " Two Gentlemen of Verona,” we meet with the following humorous comparison :— “ Proteus. The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd, the shepherd for food follows not the sheep; thou for wages followest thy master, thy master for wages follows not thee ; therefore thou art a sheep. “ Speed. Such another proof will make me cry baa.” The descriptive poets give us some charming pictures of sheep. Everyone is familiar with the sheep-shearing scene in Thomson’s “ Seasons : ”— “ Heavy and dripping, to the breezy brow Slow move the harmless race ; where, as they spread Their swelling treasures to the sunny ray, Inly disturb’d, and wond’ring what this wild Outrageous tumult means, their loud complaints The country fill; and, tossed from rock to rock, Incessant bleatings run around the hills.” What an exquisite idea of stillness is conveyed in the oft-quoted line from Gray’s 11 Elegy :" “And drowsy tinklings lull the distant fold.’’ From Dyer’s quaint poem of “ The Fleece,” we could cull a hundred passages relating to sheep ; but we have already exceeded our space. We cannot, however, close this brief notice of the allu- sions that have been made to sheep by our poets, without quoting a couple of verses from Robert Burns’s “ Elegy on Poor Mailie,” his only “ pet yowe: ”— “ Thro’ a’ the town she stroll’d by him; A lang half-mile she could descry him; Wi’ kindly bleat, when she did spy him, She ran wi’ speed ; A friend mair faithfu’ ne'er cam’ nigh him Than Mailie dead. “ I wat she was a sheep o’ sense, An’ could behave hersel’ wi’ mense; I’ll say’t, she never brake a fence, Thro’ thievish greed. Our bardie, lanely, keeps the spence, Sin’ Mailie’s dead." iioi.—MUTTON COLLOPS. (Fr.—Escalopes de Mouton.) (Cold. Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A few slices of cold leg or loin of mutton, salt and pepper to taste, i blade of pounded mace, i small bunch of savoury herbs, minced very fine, 2 or 3 shalots, 2 or 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour. 3 pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice-