762 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. and grate them upon a bread-grater. Beat the eggs till light, and mix thoroughly with the grated parsnips, adding sufficient sifted flour to bind the mixture together. Flour the hands well and make the mixture into balls. Have the lard boiling hot in a deep frying pan, sufficient to nearly cover the balls. Fry quickly to a good brown on both sides. Serve very hot. A very nice vegetable dish. Time.—4 hour. Average Cost, id. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from October to May. 1596. BOILED PARSNIPS. (Fr.—Panais au Naturel.) Ingredients.—Parsnips; to each £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Wash the parsnips, scrape them thoroughly, and with the point of the knife, remove any black specks about them, and should they be very large, cut the thick part into quarters. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion; boil them rapidly until tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork in them ; take them up, drain them and serve in a vegetable-dish. This vegetable is usually served with salt fish, boiled pork or boiled beef ; when sent to table with the latter, a few should be placed alternately with carrots round the dish, as a garnish. Time.—Large parsnips, 1 to 1^ hour; small ones, £ to 1 hour. Average Cost, 2d. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 1 for each person. Seasonable from October to May. The Parsnip.—This vegetable is found wild in meadows all over Europe, and, in England, is met with very frequently on dry banks in a chalky soil. In its wild state, the root is white, mucilaginous, aromatic and sweet, with some degree of acrimony: when old it has been known to cause vertigo. Willis relates that a whole family fell into delirium from having eaten of its roots, and cattle never touch it in its wild state. In domestic economy the parsnip is much used, and is found to be a highly nutritious vegetable. In times of scarcity, an excellent bread has been made from the roots, and they also furnish the parsnit'. an excellent wine resembling the malmsey of Madeira and the Can- aries; a spirit is also obtained from them lin as great quantities as from carrots. The composition of the parsnip-root has been found to be 79-4 of water, 6 9 starch and fibre, 6'i gum, 5 5 sugar and 2-i of albumen. 1597.-BOILED GREEN PEAS. (Fr.—Petits Pois au Naturel a I’Anglais.) Ingredients.—Green peas ; to each £ gallon of water allow i small tea- spoonful of moist sugar, i heaped tablespoonful of salt, mint. Mode.—This delicious vegetable, to be eaten in perfection, should be young, and not gathered or shelled long before it is dressed. Shell the peas,