1096 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. yeast to make a thin batter ; throw a little flour over the surface of this batter, cover the whole with a thick cloth, and set it to rise in a warm place. When the batter has nicely risen, work the whole to a nice smooth dough, adding the water as re- quired ; knead it well, and mould the dough into loaves; let them rise for nearly half an hour, then put them into a well-heated oven. If made into two loaves, they will require from i^- to 2 hours’ baking. Time.—ij to 2 hours. Maize.—Next to wheat and rice, maize is the grain most used in the nourishment of man. In Asia, Africa, and America, it is the principal daily food of a large portion of the population, especially of the colonists.- In some of the provinces of France, too, it is consumed in" large quantities. There are eight varieties of the maize; the most pro- ductive is the maize of Cusco. The flour of maize plant. maize is yellow, and it contains an oily ear of maize. matter, which, when fresh, gives it an agree- able flavour and odour; but the action of the air on it soon develops rancidity. If carried any distance, it should be stored away in air-tight vessels. An excellent soup is prepared with meat and maize-flour. The inhabitants of some countries, where wheat is scarce, make, with maize and water, or milk, and salt, a kind of biscuit, which is pleasant in taste, but indigestible. Some of the preparations of maize-flour are very good, and, when partaken of in moderation, suitable food for almost everybody. 2415.—BAKING-POWDER BREAD. Ingredients.—To every 2 lbs. of flour allow 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 breakfast cupfuls of cold milk. Mode.—Mix the salt and powder well with the flour, add the milk, and work the whole quickly into a light dough. Divide it into 2 loaves, and put them in a well-heated oven immediately, and bake for an hour. Sour milk or buttermilk may be used, but then a little less baking powder and a little carbonate ot soda will improve it. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 6d. for this quantity. Polish and Pomeranian Wheat are accounted by authorities most excellent. Large raft-like barges convey this grain down the rivers, from the interior of the polish country to the seaports. This corn is described as being white, hard, and thin- wheat. skinned ; and it yields a large quantity of flour, having a small proportion of bran. 2416.—EXCELLENT ROLLS. (Fr.—Petits Pains.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 1 oz. of butter 1 pint of milk, 1 large teaspoonful of yeast, a little salt.