Veal and Ham Pie. 4d5 yolk of an egg, and bake in a well heated oven for about hour. Pour in a good gravy after baking, which is done by removing the top ornament, and replacing it after the gravy is added. Time.—About i£ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. A Very Veal Dinner.—At a dinner given by Lord Polkemmet, a Scotch nobleman and judge, his guests saw, when the covers were removed, that the fare consisted of veal broth, a roasted fillet of veal, veal cutlets, a veal pie, a calfs head, and calfs-foot jelly. The judge, observing the surprise of his guests, volunteered an explanation—“ Ou, ay, it’s a’ cauf; when we kill a beast, we just eat up ae side, and doun the tither.” IOo9.—V EAL AND HAM PIE. (Fr.—Pate de Veau a I’Anglaise.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of cutlets, I lb. of boiled ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, \ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, a strip of lemon-peel finely minced, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, £ pint of water, nearly £ pint of good strong gravy, puff-crust. Mode.—Cut the veal into nice square pieces, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish ; sprinkle over these a portion of the herbs, spices, seasoning, lemon-peel, and the yolks of the eggs cut in slices; cut the ham very thin, and put a layer of this in. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, so arranging it that the ham comes at the top. Lay a puff-paste on the edge of the dish, and pour in about half a pint of water; cover with crust, ornament it with leaves, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a well-heated oven for 1 to 1^ hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. When it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top through a funnel, nearly half a pint of strong gravy ; this should be made sufficiently good that, when cold, it may cut in a firm jelly. This pie may be very much enriched by adding a few mushrooms, oysters, or sweet- breads ; but it will be found very good without any of the last-named additions. Time.—1| hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. Average Cost, without oysters or sweetbread, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1010.— VEAL, HAM AND LIVER PIE. (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—I lb. of sausage meat, 1 lb. of cold boiled liver, 1 lb. of cold veal, 1 lb. of cold ham, truffles, parsley, 2 young onions, pepper, salt, £ pint of good gravy ; pie-crust.