366 Various Modes of Cooking Meat. can penetrate into the inside. This paper should be removed half an hour before the time of serving dinner, so that the joint may take a good colour. By means of a j'ar, many dishes, which will be enumerated under their special heads, may be economically prepared in the oven. The principal of these are soups, stews, gravies, jugged hare, beef tea; and this mode of cooking may be advantageously adopted with a ham, which has previously been covered with a common crust of flour and water. 819. All Dishes Prepared foie Baking should be more highly seasoned than when intended to be roasted. There are some dishes which, it may be said, are at least equally well cooked in the oven as by the roaster; thus, a shoulder of mutton and baked potatoes, a fillet or breast of Veal, a sucking-pig, a hare, well basted, will be received by connoisseurs as well, when baked, as if they had been roasted. Indeed, the family oven, may often, as has been said, be substituted for the cook and the spit with greater economy and convenience. The baker's oven is used for everyone’s dinner at once, and, therefore, it does not produce the best results. BOILING. 820. Boiling? or the preparation of meat by hot water, though one of the easiest processes in cookery, requires skilful management. Boiled meat should be tender, savoury, and full of its own juice, or natural gravy; but, through the carelessness and ignorance of cooks, it is too often sent to table hard, tasteless and innutritious. To insure a successful result in boiling flesh, the heat of the fire must be judiciously regulated, and the proper quantity of water must be kept up in the pot. 821. Many Writers on Cookery assert that the meat to be boiled should be put into cold water, and that the pot should be heated gradually ; but Liebig, the highest authority on all matters connected with the chemistry of food, has shown that meat so treated loses some of its most nutritious constitu- ents. "If the flesh," says the great chemist, "be introduced into the boiler when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling be kept up for a few minutes, and the pot then placed in a warm place, so that the temperature of the water is kept at 158° to 1655, we have the united conditions for giving to the flesh the qualities which best fit it for being eaten.” When a piece of meat is plunged into boiling water, the albumen which is near the surface immediately coagulates, forming an envelope which prevents the escape of the internal juice, and most effectually excludes the water, which, by mixing with this juice, would render the meat insipid. The old-fashioned way of putting a paste over half a leg of mutton or other divided joint is also an excellent precaution. Meat treated thus, is juicy and well-flavoured, when cooked, as it retains most of its savoury constituents. On the other hand, if the piece of meat be set on the fire with cold water, and this slowly heated to boiling, the flesh undergoes a loss of soluble and nutritious substances, while, as a matter of course, the soup becomes richer in these matters. The albumen is gradually dissolved, from the surface to the centre; the fibre loses, more or less, its quality of shortness or tenderness, and becomes hard and tough : the thinner the piece of meat is, the greater is its loss of savoury constituents. In order to obtain well-flavoured and eatable meat, we must relinquish the idea of making good soup from it, as that mode of boiling which yields the best soup gives the driest, toughest and most sapid meat. Slow boiling whitens the meat; and, we suspect, that it is on this account that it is in such favour with the cooks. The wholesomeness of food is, however, a matter of much greater moment than the appearance it presents on the table. It should be borne in mind, that the whiteness of meat