448 Recipes for Cooking Veal. Seasonable from March to October. young carrots, i tablespoonful of ketchup, i tablespoonful of tomato sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, the juice ot f lemon. Mode.—Cut the meat from a knuckle of veal into neat slices, season with pepper and salt, and dredge them with flour. Fry them in a little butter of a pale brown, and put them into a stewpan with the bone (which should be chopped in several places) ; add the celery, herbs, mace, and carrots ; pour over all about a pint of hot water, and let it simmer very gently for two hours over a slow but clear fire. Take out the slices of meat and carrots, strain and thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour ; add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, put back the meat and carrots, let these get hot through, and serve. When in season, a few green peas, boiled separately, and added to this dish at the moment of serving, will be found a very agreeable addition. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 7d. to 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonabe from March to October. 996.—STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL AND RICE. {Fr.—Jarret de Veau au Riz.) Ingredients.—Knuckle of veal, 1 onion, 2 blades of mace, 1 teaspoon- ful of salt, i lb. of rice. Mode.—Have the knuckle cut small, or cut some cutlets from it, that it may be just large enough to be eaten the same day it is dressed, as cold boiled veal is not a particularly tempting dish. Break the shank-bone, wash it clean, and put the meat into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it gradually come to a boil, put in the salt, and remove the scum as fast as it rises. When it has simmered gently for about three-quarters of an hour, add the remaining ingredients, and stew the whole gently for z\ hours. Put the meat into a deep dish, pour over it the rice, &c., and send boiled bacon, and a tureen of parsley-and-butter, No. 753, to table with it. Time.—A knuckle of veal weighing 6 lbs.: 3 hours’ gentle stewing. Average Cost, 7d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 persons. Note.—Macaroni, instead of rice, boiled with the veal, will be found good ; or the rice and macaroni may be omitted, and the veal sent to table smothered in parsley-and-butter. KNUCKLE OF VEAL.