Recipes for Puddings and Pastry* 8oo that it took the place of fat in making pastry. Thus we have undoubted authority that, eighteen, hundred years ago, there existed a knowledge of the useful qualities of butter. The Romans seem to have set about making it much as we do ; for Pliny tells us, “ Butter is made from milk ; and the use of this aliment, so much sought after by barbarous nations, distinguished the rich from the common people. It is obtained principally from cows’milk; that from ewes is the fattest; goats also supply some. It is produced by agitating the milk in long vessels with narrow openings: a little water is added.” 1675.-MEDIUM PUFF-PASTE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 8 oz. of butter, 4 oz. of lard, not quite \ pint of water- Mode.—This paste may be made by the directions in the preceding recipe, only using less butter and substituting lard for a portion of it. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with not quite half a pint of water ; then roll it out three times, the first time covering the paste with butter, the second with lard, and the third with butter, and it will be ready for use. Keep the rolling-pin and paste slightly dredged with flour to prevent them from sticking. Average Cost, 7d. per pound. Butter in Haste.—In his 11 History of Food," Soyer says that to obtain butter instantly, it is only necessary, in summer, to put new milk into a bottle, some hours after it has been taken from the cow, and shake it briskly. The clots which are thus formed should be thrown into a sieve, washed and pressed together, and they constitute the finest and most delicate butter that can possibly be made. 1676-COMMON PASTE FOR FAMILY USE. Ingredients.—i£ lb. of flour, | lb. of butter, rather more than £ pint of water. Mode.—Rub the butter lightly into the flour, and mix it to a smooth paste with the water; roll it out two or three times, and it will be ready for use. This paste may be converted into an excellent short-crust for sweet tart, by adding to the flour, after the butter is rubbed in, two table- spoonfuls of fine-sifted sugar. Average Cost, 5<f. per lb. To Keep Butter Fresh.—One of the best means to preserve butter fresh is, first to completely press out all the buttermilk ; then to keep it under water, renewing the water frequently, and to remove it from the influence of heat and air, by wrapping it in a wet cloth. 1677.—FRENCH PUFF-PASTE. (Fr.—Feuilletage.) {Founded, on M. Ude’s Recipe.) Ingredients Equal quantities of flour and butter—say 1 lb. of each ; | saltspoonful of salt, the yolks of 2 eggs, rather more than £ pint of water. Mode.—Weigh the flour; ascertain that it is perfectly dry, and sift it; squeeze all the water from the butter, and wring it in a clean cloth till