97° Dessert Dishes and Small Savouries. game and those to which they form a strong contrast. Appetisans, which are served before the soup, generally consist of such things as caviare, oysters (three of which are given to each person) with or without very thin slices of brown bread-and-butter, prawns, &c. Stuffed olives, sardines, foie gras, and small salads are served during the dinner, while savouries made from cheese, devilled biscuits, herring roe, or angels on horseback find their place at its close. Amongst recipes for cheese and eggs will be found many that may be used for a dinner course, while amongst the following ones are some that may equally well serve for breakfast, tea, or supper dishes, if made in somewhat larger quantities. 2075.—ANCHOVY TOAST. Ingredients.—Stale bread, butter for frying, anchovy paste, cayenne. Mode.—Cut the slices of bread about one third of an inch in thickness from a stale loaf, stamp them out with a cutter into rounds i£ inch in diameter, and fry a bright golden brown in butter; spread these rounds with anchovy paste, and scatter over a few grains of cayenne. Serve hot, garnished with parsley or watercress. Average Cost.—\d. each. Sufficient.—Allow 2 for each person. Seasonable at any time. 2076.-ANCHOVY CANAPES. Ingredients.—2 slices of stale bread, 6 anchovies, butter for frying, 2 eggs. Mode.—Fry the rounds of bread by preceding recipe, boil the eggs hard, and bone, wash and fillet the anchovies. Curl two fillets upon each round, and fill the centre with finely-chopped white of egg and the yellow rubbed through a sieve. Average Cost, gd. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2077.-ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—6 slices of brown bread-and-butter, cut very thin, 6 anchovies filleted, or anchovy paste, a little mustard and cress, cayenne. Mode.—Free the mustard and cress from stalks, and sprinkle 3 slices of the bread-and-butter, spread the others with the filleted anchovy or the paste, over which scatter a little cayenne ; then put the slices together, and cut into neat little sandwiches. Average Cost, yd. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at anv time