Recipes for Cooking Fish. 228 472.-FISH PIE. [Another Mode.) Ingredients.—The remains of any cold fish, 2 oz. of butter, some mashed potatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Flake the fish and season with the anchovy and cayenne. Put it in a well-buttered pie-dish, lay a little oiled butter over the top, fill up with the potatoes, and bake for 15 minutes. Time, ^ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the fish, 4d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 persons. 473.—FISH CAKE. (Fk—Gateau de Poisson.) Ingredients.—The remains of any cold fish, 1 onion, 1 faggot of sweet herbs ; salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of water, equal quantities of bread- crumbs and cold potatoes, d teaspoonful of parsley, 1 egg. Mode.—Pick the meat from the bones of the fish, which latter put, with the head and fins, into a stewpan with the water; add pepper and salt, the onion and herbs, and stew slowly for gravy about 2 hours ; chop the fish fine, and mix it well with bread-crumbs and cold potatoes, adding the parsley and seasoning; make the whole into a cake with the white of an egg, brush it over with egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and fry of a light brown; strain the gravy, pour it over, and stew gently for a quarter of an hour, stirring it carefully once or twice. Serve hot, and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Time.—| hour, after the gravy is made. Average Cost, exclusive of the fish, 4d. Seasonable at any time. 474—FISH CAKES, FROM TINNED SALMON. Ingredients—2 lbs. boiled potatoes, 1 tin salmon, 2 oz. butter or dripping, bread-crumbs, 1 egg, little milk, cayenne, lemon, vinegar, nutmeg to season, fat to fry. Mode.—The potatoes are best hot. Mash them quite smooth, add the fish, out of which all the bones must be taken, with the butter, milk enough to make it soft, and seasoning. Shape into round, flat cakes, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them a light brown. Serve hot, with garnish of fried parsley. This makes a large dishful. They can be dsne with milk and flour instead of egg and bread-crumb. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Seasonable at any time.