How to Keep Beef. 379 of his flesh, he is a great favourite with butchers who have a select family trade. It is alike unsuitable for the dairy and the arable farm; but in its native Highlands it attains to great perfection, thriving upon the scanty and coarse herbage which it gathers on the sides of the mountains. The Gallo- way has a larger frame, and when fattened makes excellent beef. But it has given place to the short-horns in its native district, where turnip-husbandry is pursued with advantage. The Ayrshire is peculiarly adapted for the dairy, and for the abundance of its milk cannot be surpassed in its native district. In this it stands unrivalled, and there is no other breed capable of converting the produce of a poor soil into such fine butter and cheese. It rs difficult to fatten, however, and its beef is of a coarse quality. We have chosen these as among the principal representative breeds of the ox species ; but there are other breeds which at all events have a local, if not a general celebrity. 855. Australian Beef, although not considered so good in flavour or quality as the English, is nevertheless excellent, and can always be obtained at a lower price. The best parts only used to be sent, but now that the means of import are so much improved, it arrives frozen in quarters and is cut up and sold as English beef, only at a lower rate, thus putting good meat within the reach of all. [ 856. Buying BeefBeef should never be hung until it is in the least high. In dry weather it will keep some days; but it very soon spoils in damp weather, • even if the thermometer is low. At such times joints of meat may often be bought very cheaply, especially in the large markets on Saturday nights. The meat may be quite good at the time it is sold, but it would not be good in twenty-four or thirty-six hours. And thrifty housekeepers, having more time than money at disposal, in this way do their marketing to great advantage. It is not wise at such times—perhaps not at any time when economy is studied—to go out with a fixed idea of the joint that is to be bought. A general idea of the relative value of each joint, of its usual price, and its average proportion of bone and fat, is all that is wanted. The prices of meat, and of all perishable articles, are only fixed so long as the circumstances that surround them are fixed, and when there is a glut in the market of anything that cannot be held back it is sure to be sold for whatever it will fetch. 'u _ 857. To keep Beef.—U meat cannot be kept until rigor mortis) the stiffen- rj . ing that takes place after death) has passed off it should be cooked while it is warm, before the stiffening has set in. Meat should always be kept in a dry and GALLOWAY BULL. GALLOWAY COW.