Hospitality. Conversation. 3 prove everything and everybody, and who possess neither the courage to repre- hend vice nor the generous warmth to defend virtue. The friendship of such persons is without attachment, and their love without affection or even preference. They imagine that everyone who has any penetration is ill-natured, and look coldly on a discriminating judgment. It should be remembered, however, that this discernment does not always proceed from an uncharitable temper ; but that those who possess a long experience and thorough knowledge of the world scrutinise the conduct and dispositions of people before they trust themselves to the first fair appearances. Addison, who was not deficient in a knowledge of mankind, observes that—“ A friendship, which makes the least noise, is very often the most useful; for which reason, I should prefer a prudent friend to a zealous one." And Joanna Baillie tells us that— “ Friendship is no plant of hasty growth ; Though planted in esteem’s deep-fixed soil, The gradual culture of kind intercourse Must bring it to perfection.” 7. Hospitality is a most Excellent Virtue ; but care must be taken that the love of company, for its own sake, does not become a prevailing passion ; for then the habit is no longer hospitality, but dissipation. Reality and truth- fulness in this, as in all other duties of life, are the points to be studied ; for, as Washington Irving well says—“ There is an emanation from the heart in genuine hospitality which cannot be described, but is immediately felt, and puts the stranger at once at his ease." With respect to the continuance of acquaintance- ships, however, it may be found necessary, in some cases, for a mistress to relinquish, on assuming the responsibility of a household, many of those com- menced in the earlier part of her life. This will be the more requisite if the number still retained be quite equal to her means and opportunities. 8 In Conversation, Trifling Occurrences, such as small disap- pointments, petty annoyances, and other everyday incidents, should never be mentioned to friends. A bad habit that very many people get into is to tattle of their servants and children incessantly, not realising that to many of their listeners they are most wearisome subjects, while to most they are very unin- teresting ones. The extreme injudiciousness of repeating these will be at once apparent when we reflect on the unsatisfactory discussions they too frequently occasion, and on the load of advice which may, thereupon, be tendered, anc| which is, too often, of a kind neither useful nor agreeable. Greater events, whether of joy or sorrow, should be communicated to friends; and, on such occasions, their sympathy gratifies and comforts. It tbs mistress be a wife never let a word, in connection with her husband's failines pass her lips ; and in cultivating the power of conversation, she should keep the versified counsel of Cowper continually in her memory,—that it “ Should flow like water after summer showers, Not as if raised by mere mechanic powers." The secret of our conversation being entertaining or the reverse consists mainly on our powers of suiting it to that of those with whom we are speaking. To some it is necessary to say very little at all, for they much prefer to talk them- selves, and it is then the duty of the hostess to listen as sympathisingly or as interestedly as she can. Other people are shy, and then a good deal of tact is required to find out what would be pleasant subjects for them, for there are sure o be some upon which they can speak, and it is well for the mistress of a house.-- '.old loleam as mueh as she can of the leading topics of the day.