480 General Observations on the Sheep and Lamb. calculation it is easy to see that the grazier and farmer do not get anything like the prices that are paid by the consumer. The price of any commodity, and of meat dead or alive, may be seen quoted every day in the newspaper market lists; and it would be well if consumers studied and understood these a little better than they do now. Another fact they might learn there would be the difference of price between the best meat and the second or third quality. Very few persons eat always the best meat, for the reason that there is not enough to supply them; and perhaps even fewer pay second-best prices or expect to pay them. We have already pointed out that second quality meat does not necessarily mean unwholesome meat, or indeed worse meat than most people are contented with. 1059. Season for Mutton.—Mutton is in season all the*year round ; but just as beef is said to be in its prime when French beans are in, i.e. when the pastures are greenest and freshest, so mutton is in best condition when grass is plentiful, rather than when it is fattened entirely on roots and cake. Mutton is often thought more digestible than beef, and is therefore prescribed for invalids; but a matter such as this must be decided by individual idiosyncrasy rather than rule. It is always thought to be less satisfying, and as it is impossible to buy a solid lump of boneless mutton, it is no doubt, on that account also, less economical. 1060. Relative Cost.—In reckoning the cost of various joints as compared with one another, we have assumed that leg and loin are the same price and that 18 oz. of either can be bought for a shilling ; and that the shoulder and best end af the neck are both sold at 20 oz. (1 Jib.) for a shilling. The loin has more jjone than the leg, 3 oz., instead of 2^ oz. in each shilling’s-worth of meat, and the loin also is very fat, so that although it is nice it is not cheap. The shoulder has the same proportion of bone as the loin, and the neck most of all, 4 oz. in every shilling’s-worth of meat, and is even fatter than the loin besides. Boiled or roasted, the neck is not a very cheap joint; but trimmed into cutlets, with all the fat removed, it is probably the dearest butchers’ meat that can be eaten. Competition remains at length between 15^ oz. of leg against 17 oz. of shoulder. The shoulder is fatter, it is true ; and if it is sold at the same price as the leg, is dearer in every way. Sold at the price we have quoted, it appears to be as cheap as, or cheaper than the leg if the fat is eaten. Children often dislike fat, and so it is cheaper to pay a little more for a lean joint for children. On the other hand, many people dislike a leg of mutton and prefer shoulder. The prices of meat per pound, in relation to the market price per stone of 8 lbs., may be calculated sufficiently near to give a tolerably correct idea what the buyer should pay for meat from different parts of the ox or sheep, according to the market price. The butcher pays a certain price per stone for the whole carc-ase; but as the different joints of the sheep or bullock differ considerably in quality and are classed respectively as prime, middling and inferior parts, the prices of the several parts are raised or lowered by the butcher, above or below the average market price per stone, so that all classes of purchasers may be suited, and the sale of all parts of the animals secured. Of course, the butcher takes care to regulate his prices so as to secure a remunerative profit on his outlay. Prime pieces of beef are rounds, sirloins and ribs; of mutton, legs and loins. Middling pieces of beef are brisket and flanks; of mutton, shoulders. Inferior pieces of beef are shins, clod, or shoulder, sticking piece, or neck ; of mutton, necks and breasts. The prices given in the table are such as would be paid for meat of