GijkHG, DOWN TO DINNER. • :/ yrj • - j;. .<. {\ t, <; c i*i ■ CHAPTER LXI1. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON DINNERS AND DINING. 3031 Man, it has been said, is a dining animal. Creatures of the inferior races eat and drink ; only man dines. It has also been said that he is a cooking animal; but some racgs eat food without cooking it. A Groat captain said to M. Brillat Savarin, “ When, in campaign, we feel hungry, we knock over the first animal we find, cut off a steak, powder it with salt, put it under the saddle, gallop over it for half a mile, and then eat it.” Huntsmen in Dauphiny, when out shooting, have been known to kill a bird, pluck it, salt and pepper it, and cook it by carrying it some time in their caps. It is equally true that some races of men do not dine any more than the tiger or the vulture. It is not a dinner at which sits the aboriginal Australian, who gnaws his bone half bare and then flings it behind to his squaw. And the native of Terra del Fuego does not dine when he gets his morsel of red clay. Dining is the privilege of civilisation. The rank which a people occupy in the grand scale maybe measured by their way of taking their meals, as well as by their way of treating their women. The nation which knows how to dine has learnt the leading lesson of progress. It implies both the will and the skill to reduce to order, and surround with idealisms and graces the more material conditions of human existence; and wherever that will and that skill exist, life cannot be wholly ignoble. !3032. Dinner being the grand solid meal of the day, is a matter of considerable importance; and a well-served table is a striking index of human ingenuity and resource. “ Their table,” says Lord Byron, in describing a dinner- party given by Lord and Lady Amundeville at Norman Abbey— “ Their table was a board to tempt even ghosts To pass the Styx for more substantial feasts. I will not dwell upon ragouts or roasts, Albeit all human history attests That happiness for man—the hungry sinner !— Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner." And then lie goes on to observe upon the curious complexity of the resuits pro-