The Wild Boar. 529 ChafaCtef. When fully fattened, the thin cuticle, that is one of its characteristics, cracks from the adipose distension beneath, exposing the fatty mass, which discharges a liquid oil from the adjacent tissues. The great fault in this breed is the remarkably small quantity of lean laid down to the immense proportion of fat. Some idea of the growth of this species may be inferred from the fact of their attaining to 18 stone before two years, and when further advanced, as much as 40 stone. In its pure state, except for roasters, the Chinese pig is too disproportionate for the English market ; but when crossed with some of our lean stock, the breed becomes almost invaluable. 1162. The Wild Hoar is a much more cleanly and sagacious animal than the domesticated hog ; he is longer in the snout, has his ears shorter, and his tusks considerably longer, very frequently measuring as much as 10 inches. They are extremely sharp, and are bent in an upward circle. Unlike his domestic brother, who roots up here and there, or wherever his fancy takes, the wild boar ploughs the ground in continuous lines or furrows. The boar, when selected as the parent of a stock should have a small head, be deep and broad in the chest; the chine should be arched, the ribs and barrel well rounded, with the haunches falling full down nearly to the hock; and he should always be more compact and smaller than the female. The colour of the wild boar is always of a uniform hue, and generally of an iron gray, shading off into a black. The hair of the boar is of considerable length, espe- cially about the head and mane; he stands, in general, from 20 to 30inches in height at the shoulders, though instances have occurred where he has reached 42 inches. The young are of a pale yellowish tint, irregularly brindled with light <brown. The boar of Germany is a large and formidable animal, and the hunting of him, with a small species of mastiff, is still a national sport. From living almost exclusively on acorns and nuts, his flesh is held in great esteem, and in Westphalia his legs are made into hams by a process which, it is said, enhances the flavour and quality of the meat in a remarkable degree. 1163. The Point to be taken into consideration by all breeders of pigs is to what ultimate use is the flesh to be put; for, if meant to be eaten fresh, or simply salted, the small breed of pigs is best suited for the purpose ; if for hams or bacon, the large variety of the animal is necessary. Pigs are usually weaned between six and eight weeks after birth, after which they are fed on soft food, such as mashed potatoes in skimmed or butter-milk. The general period at which the small hogs are killed for the market is from 12 to 16 weeks ; from 4 to 5 months they are called store pigs, and are turned out to graze till the animal has acquired its full stature. As soon as this point has been reached, the pig should be forced to maturity as quickly as possible; he should, therefore, be taken from the fields and farmyard, and shut up on boiled potatoes, butter-milk, and peas-meal; after a time to be followed by grains, oil-cake, wash, barley and Indian meal ; supplying his sty, at the same time, w'ith plenty of water, cinders, and a quantity of salt in every mess of food presented to him. 1164. The Estimated Number of Pigs in Great Britain is supposed to exceed 20 millions ; and, considering the third of the number as worth £1 apiece, and the remaining two-thirds as of the relative value of 10s. each, would give a marketable estimate of over /20,000,000 for this animal alone, 1165. Pork.—There is no meat that varies so much as pork. For while all the variations common/o other meats have to be thought of in pork also, there is here, in addition, the large question of animal versus vegetable food. An ox or a sheep will only eat vegetable food ; a pig will eat anything, and will live any where, though he prefers clean food and housing if he can get it. If a pig is allowed to run about and pick up what garbage he can for food, he makes no fat and his