The Natural History of Fishes. 204 Middle Ages, when sea fishermen were less skilful than they are at present, stews, or ponds, were attached to every monastery and every house of pretension; and it is said that to the care and skill of the monks we owe the acclimatisation of many freshwater fish now common in England. The quality of fish also depends very much on the nature of the food. It is said that in Norway the sturgeon is distin- guished by its having followed a shoal of mackerel or of herring. Everyone knows the herring of Loch Fyne, and the haddock of Dublin Bay. As a rule alj fish is better if it is caught in an open sea, off rocky headlands, than if it has lived in an inland sea, with slow current and shallow water. Cod is not only better in the coldest weather, but it is never so good as when it is caught in extreme northern latitudes. A cheap fish, good of its kind, is always very much to be preferred to expensive fish of inferior quality. Freshwater fish vary immensely according to the natureof the water in which they have lived. In a muddy stream, or in any stagnant water, they are often scarcely eatable ; while those of the same species from deep, clear streams, with gravelly bottom, have an excellent flavour. This is noticeably true of eels. All such fish are greatly improved by being kept in fresh water and carefully fed for a few days before they come to table. 419. Preserved Fish. —Various methods are resorted to for preserving fish. It is dried, smoked, salted, put up in oil, or a combination of these methods is used, the object being always to remove moisture or to exclude air. Of tinned fish we have spoken in another chapter. The fish that are most easily preserved are those rich in oil, and of firm fibre, but all fish could be preserved ; and in point of fact those only are so that are caught in greater quantities than can be consumed at the time. Here, as elsewhere, custom has much to do in influencing the market. Pilchards are-exported to the Mediterranean, whence we import annually many tons of sardines ; yet the two fish are so much alike that they are readily distinguished only by the size. We import also caviare (the dried roe of the sturgeon), though to relish it requires a cultivated taste : and much of that eaten in this country is partly decomposed. “ Bombay ducks,” the dried bummeloh fish, are thought highly of in India. Dried haddocks and herrings form a staple food of the labouring classes. All fish lose nourishing power by being salted. It is said that salt cod is the least nourishing of all foods commonly eaten, whence (it may be) comes its use as a diet for fast days. 420. Shell-fisli.—Shell-fish must not be left out of account, since among those commonly eaten, we find both the delicacies of the rich and some staple foods of the poor. They are all difficult of digestion, owing to the toughness and hardness of the flesh resisting mastication, or perhaps because of the poisonous nature of their food. The Crustacea commonly eaten are the lobster, crab, crayfish, shrimp and prawn. Of these, shrimps and crabs are least esteemed and are sold at a low price. Prawns are sought after for garnishing, and, generally speaking, are the dearest of all fish. The crayfish is less common in this country than in France, where it is employed to make the celebrated Bisque soup, and also largely for garnish. Of the molluscas, oysters have the best reputation both for flavour and digesti- bility, and are commonly given to invalids. Cooking, especially at a great heat, hardens them and so renders them less digestible. The old saying is that oysters are in season when there is an “ r ” in the month ; i.e., from September to April; but so many foreign oysters are now in the market that they are sold all the year round. Mussels have been known to produce poisonous symptoms ; but it is not clearly known to what that is due ; possibly to the nature of their food.