6 7 Seamless Steel Utensils. steel, thickly coated with pure refined tin, they possess all the advantages of copper, without any of its drawbacks, among which may be specially named their liability to get coated with verdigris, or copper-rust, under careless or unskilful hands-verdigris being a poison imparting its deadly qualities to any food cooked in a vessel that is tainted with it. Being seamless, or without joint in any part, and made of steel, they are of the same thickness as copper, practically indestruc- tible and not liable to burn their contents when cooking. They are safe and, therefore, economical in use, being cheaper in the long run even than cast-iron and wrought-iron vessels, by reason of their durability. Their superiority oyer copper has been already mentioned, but there is yet another point in which they are better than utensils made of this material, and that is in the fact that when the tin wears off they are as harmless as before, being made. of steel and they are far better than enamelled ware, the enamel of which will sometimes get chipped off and thus render them dangerous to use. Some enamels, too, are of a poisonous nature, which renders enamelled saucepans, &c objectionable. To sum up in as few words as possible, these beautifully made and brushed utensils for they are well planished and burnished, and are made without brazing, are perfectly free from all classes of poisoning through lead or verdigris, as is sometimes the case with copper vessels ; nor is there any possibility of arsenical poisoning, as with enamelled goods. 119 Patent “Sanitary ” Seamless Steel Saucepan.--This is the first of the three kinds of utensils manufactured by Messrs. B. Perkins and Son, and supplied by all ironmongers. It is of the same thickness and weight as the ordinary copper saucepan, planished and burnished. It is made in the sizes, ^c given below, and sold by all ironmongers, at the following prices. The form is clearly shown, as well as its make, in the illustration given in page 65. sf ' ■' Diameter in inches.. 3I Capacity in pints.... 1 Price 2/4 2/8 4* if 3/ 5 2 3/7 4/2 61 4 4/10 7 5 5/S 7l 6 6/ 81 9 8 10 7/2 9/ 9l 12 12/ 120 Patent “ Sanitary ” Seamless Steel Stew-pan.— The shape and form of this utensil is shown in the illustration given in page 65. Its sizes and prices are as follows:— Diameter in inches Price 4 3/ 3?7 6 4/2 7 4/10 S/5 10 7/2 8/5 io/3 121 Patent “Sanitary” Seamless-Steel Saute-pan. —The key- note to the value of this and the other seamless utensils mentioned above lies ip the term "Sanitary.’' This utensil resembles in shape the cutlet-pan or saute* pan shown in page 59. Its sizes and prices are . Diameter in inches Price 8 2/6 3/8 4/9 5/8 122. Bower's Patent Potato Steamer.— The principle on which this cooking utensil is constructed is that all vegetables, fish, meat, &o., are better cooked and run less risk of spoiling by being left too long in the water, by being first boiled for a short time in the water itself in the bottom of the saucepan and then finished off by steam in the top of the saucepan, after having been lifted up out of the water and suspended there. In one of the illustrations given in page 65, the potatoes are shown boiling in the Patent Potato Steamer, and steaming in the other; the steamer, a vessel with holes in its bottom, in which the potatoes are placed being hung for this purpose on a hook inserted in the side of the saucepan. The steamer, filled with potatoes, is first placed at the bottom of the vessel, in sufficient water to cover the potatoes, and rise a little above them. After boiling from ten to fifteen minutes, the steamer is raised and fi'ted at the top, and in about