1638 Legal Memoranda. than 1882, their marriage makes no difference to their rights and liabilities re- specting property accruing to them either before or after marriage. Under the modern law, a husband is liable for debts incurred by his wife far necessaries, whether he assent to the purchases or not, unless she be otherwise fully provided, and he has notified the creditor before purchase that he will not be answerable. Such notification is worthless, however, if it be proved that the husband has not fully provided his wife with necessaries equal to her rank and his means. On the contrary, a wife is not liable for any debt incurred by her husband, unless she joins in giving the order or initiating the business in such a manner as to commit her separately to the obligation. A husband is liable for the maintenance of his wife’s children born before the marriage, but a wife is not liable for the maintenance of her husband's children born before the marriage. No one but the minor himself is liable for goods he. may order, unless he orders as the agent of one of his parents, and with the parent’s concurrence ; and the minor himself is not liable unless the goods supplied are necessaries for himself, or for his wife or family if he be married ; and if it be proved that he is other- wise provided with necessaries, there is much doubt whether the creditor can recover even for what would otherwise be necessaries. 3730. Registration of Rirths.—Previously to 1874 there was consider- able doubt concerning some points relating to this subject, but an Act of that year set all doubts at rest. Responsible Persons.—In the case of every child born alive, responsibility for registration devolves upon the father and mother of the child, and in default of the father and mother, of the occupier of the house in which to his knowledge the child is born, and of each person present at the birth, and of the person having charge of the child. Within Six Weeks.—One of the responsible persons must give to the registrar, within six weeks next after birth, information of the particulars required to be registered concerning such birth, and, in the presence of the registrar, must sign the register. After Six Weeks.—When a birth has, from the default of the responsible per- sons, not been duly registered, the registrar may at any time after the end of six weeks from such birth, by notice in writing, require any of such responsible persons to attend personally at the registrar’s office, or at any other place ap- pointed by the registrar within his sub-district, within such time (not less than seven days after the receipt of such notice, and not more than three months from the date of the birth) as may be specified in such notice, and to give informa- tion, to the best of such person’s knowledge and belief, of the particulars required to be registered concerning such birth, and to sign the register in the presence of the registrar ; and it shall be the duty of such persons, unless the birth is re- gistered before the expiration of the time specified in such requisition, to comply with such requisition. Foundlings.—If any living new-born child be found exposed, it is the duty of a person finding such child, and of any person in whose charge such child may be placed, to give, to the best of his knowledge and belief, to the registrar, within seven days after the finding of such child, such information of the particulars required to be registered as the informant possesses, and, in the presence of the registrar, to sign the register. Discovery of Births.—Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is the duty of every registrar to inform himself carefully of every birth which happens within his sub-district, and to procure the registration thereof in due course ; and Free Within Three Months.—When the registration is affected in the ordinary course within three months after the birth, it must be without fee or reward ; but