Boudin d la Reine. 655 Mode.—Cut the fowl into nice pieces ; put the butter into a stewpan ; sautez or fry the fowl a nice brown colour, previously sprinkling it with pepper, salt and pounded mace. Dredge in the flour, shake the ingre- dients well round, then add the stock and peas, and stew till the latter are tender, which will be in about 20 minutes; put in the pounded sugar, and serve, placing the chicken round, and the peas in the middle of the dish. When liked, mushrooms may be substituted for the peas. Time.—Altogether, about 40 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the fowl, is. Seasonable from J une to August. 1362.—BOUDIN A LA REINE. (Af. Ude’s Recipe.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 1 pint of bechamel, No. 665, salt and cayenne to taste, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode.—Take the breasts and nice white meat from the fowls; cut it into small dice of an equal size, and throw them into some good bechamel, made by recipe No. 665 ; season with salt and cayenne, and put the mixture into a dish to cool. When this preparation is quite cold, cut it into 2 equal parts, which should be made into boudins of a long shape, the size of the dish they are intended to be served on ; roll them in flour, egg-and-bread-crumb them, and be careful that the ends are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they would break in the frying-pan; fry them a nice colour, put them before the fire to drain the greasy moisture from them, and serve with the remainder of the bechamel poured round them; this should be thinned with a little stock. Time.—10 minutes to fry the boudins. Average Cost, exclusive of the fowl, is. 3d. Sufficient for 1 entr6e. Sir John Sebright s Bantams.—Above all Bantams is placed the celebrated and beautiful breed called Sir John Sebright’s Silver Bantams. This breed, which Sir John brought to per- fection after years of careful trials, is very small, with unfeathered legs, and a rose comb and short hackles. The plumage is gold or silver, spangled, every feather being of a golden orange, or a silver white, with a glossy jet-black margin; the cocks have the tail folded like that of a hen, with the sickle feathers shortened straight, or nearly so, and broader than usual. The term hen-cocks is, in consequence, often applied to them ; but although the sickle feathers are thus modified, no bird possesses higher courage, or a more gallant carriage. The altitude of the cock is, indeed, singularly proud ; and he is often seen to bear bimself so haughtily that his head, thrown back as if in disdain, nearly touches the two upper feathers—sickles they can scarcely be called—of his tail. Half-bred birds of this kind are not uncommon, but birds of the pure breed are not to be obtained without trouble and expense ; indeed, some time ago, it •was almost impossible to procure a fowl or an egg. “The finest,” says the writer whom we have consulted as to this breed, “we have ever seen, were in Sir John’s poultry-yard, adjacent to Tnrnham Green Common, in the by-road leading to Acton."