328 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Mode.—Be very particular in choosing the walnuts as soon as they appear in the market, for they are more easily bruised before they become hard and shelled. Pound them in a mortar to a pulp, strew some salt over them, and let them remain thus for two or three days, occasionally stirring and moving them about. Press out the juice, and to each quart of walnut-liquor allow the above proportion of vinegar, soy, cayenne, shalots, garlic and port wine. Pound each ingredient separately in a mortar, then mix them well together, and store away for use in small bottles. The corks should be well sealed. Seasonable.—This sauce should be made as soon as walnuts are obtainable, from the beginning to the middle of July. 723.—LEMON BRANDY. Ingredients.—1 pint of brandy, the rind of 2 small lemons, 2 oz. of loaf-sugar, J pint of water. Mode.—Peel the lemons rather thin, taking care to have none of the white pith. Put the rinds into a bottle with the brandy, and let them infuse for twenty-four hours, when they should be strained. Now boil the sugar with the water for a few minutes, skim it, and, when cold, add it to the brandy. A dessertspoonful of this will be found an excellent flavour- ing for boiled custards. Lemon Bind or Peel.—This contains an essential oil of a very high flavour and fragrance, and is consequently esteemed both a wholesome and agreeable stomachic. It is used, as will be seen by many recipes in this book, as an ingredient for flavouring a number of various dishes. Under the name of Candied Lemon-Peel, it is cleared of the pulp and preserved by sugar, when it becomes an excellent sweetmeat. By the ancient medical philosopher, Galen, and others, it may be added, that dried lemon-peel was considered as one of the best digestives, and recommended to weak and delicate persons. 724—LEMON SAUCE. (Fr.—Beurre au Citron.) (For Boiled Fowls.) Ingredients.—1 small lemon, 4 pint of melted butter, No. 676. Mode.— Cut the lemon into very thin slices, and these again into very small dice. Have ready three quarters of a pint of melted butter, made by Recipe No. 676, put in the lemon, let it just simmer, but not boil, and pour it over the fowls. Time.—I minute to simmer. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pair of large fowls. 725.-LEMON WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Blanche au Citron.) (For Fowls, Fricassees, &c.) Ingredients.—$ pint of cream, the rind and juice of x lemon, teaspoonful of whole white pepper, 1 sprig of lemon thyme, 3 oz. of