652 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 1356. —HASHED FOWL. (Fr.—Ragout de Volaille.7 (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, r pint of water, 1 onion, 2 or 3 small carrots, 1 blade of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, thickening of butter and flour, table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut off the best joints from the fowl, and the remainder make into gravy, by adding to the bones and trimmings a pint of water, an onion sliced and fried of a nice brown, the carrots, mace, seasoning and herbs. Let these stew gently for hour, strain the liquor, and thicken with a little flour and butter. Lay in the fowl, thoroughly warm it through, add the ketchup, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether, if hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, 4d. Seasonable at any time. Skin-Diseases in Fowls.—These are generally caused by the fowls being kept in cellars and other unventilated and dark places ; but where they are in healthy quarters these diseases are not likely to occur. As it is the absence of freedom, fresh air, and insect food that brings about these ailments, the only real cure is to give the fowls what they need. The symptoms are the feathers beginning to fall from the head and neck. Obstruction Of the Crop. —Obstruction of the crop is occasioned by weakness or greediness. You may know when a bird is so afflicted by its crop being distended almost to bursting. Mow- bray tells of a hen of his in this predicament ; when the crop was opened, a quantity of new beans were discovered in a state of vegetation. The crop should be slit from the bottom to the tof> with a sharp pair of scissors, the contents taken out, and the slit sewed up again with fine white thread. 1357. —MINCED FOWL. (Fr.—Emince de Poulet.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 2 hard-boiled eggs, salt, cayenne and pounded mace, 1 onion, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 6 table- spoonfuls of cream, 1 oz. of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, £ teaspoonful of finely minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Cut out from the fowl all the white meat, and mince it finely without any skin or bone; put the bones, skin and trimmings into a stewpan with an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, a blade of mace, and nearly a pint of water; let this stew for an hour, then strain the liquor. Chop the eggs small; mix them with the fowl; add salt, cayenne and pounded mace, put in the gravy and remaining ingredients; let the whole just boil, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the fowl, 11 d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Another way to make this is to mince the fowl, and warm it in white sauce or bechamel. When dressed like this, 3 or 4 poached eggs may be placed