Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 822 Seasonable at any time. 1726.—BAKED BATTER PUDDING. (With Dried or Fresh Fruit.) Ingredients.—pint of milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of finely-shredded suet, \ lb. of currants, a pinch of salt. Mode.—Mix the milk, flour and eggs to a smooth batter; add a little salt, the suet and the currants, which should be well washed, picked and dried ; put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for hour. When fresh fruits are in season, this pudding is ex- ceedingly nice, with damsons, plums, red currants, gooseberries or apples; when made with these, the pudding must be thickly sprinkled over with sifted sugar. Boiled batter pudding, with fruit is made in the same manner, by putting the fruit into a buttered basin and filling it up with batter made in the above proportion, but omitting the suet. It must be sent quickly to table and covered plentifully with sifted sugar. Time.—Baked batter pudding, with fruit, i£ to i£ hour; boiled, ditto, ii to 1^ hour; allowing that both are made with the above proportion of butter. Smaller puddings will be done enough in f or 1 hour. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time, with dried fruits. 1727.—BOILED BATTER PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 eggs, I oz. of butter, 1 pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin, and add sufficient milk to moisten it; carefully rub down all the lumps with a spoon, then pour in the re- mainder of the milk and stir in the butter, which should be previously melted ; keep beating the mixture, add the eggs and a pinch of salt, and, when the batter is quite smooth, put it into a well-buttered basin, tie it down very tightly, and put it into boiling water; move the basin about for a few minutes after it is put into the water, to prevent the flour settling in any part, and boil for an hour and a quarter. This pudding may also be boiled in a floured cloth that has been wetted in hot water ; it will then take a few minutes less than when boiled in a basin. Send these puddings very quickly to table, and serve with sweet sauce, wine- sauce, stewed fruit, or jam of any kind; when the latter is used, a little of it may be placed round the dish in small quantities as a garnish. Time.—1J hour in a basin, 1 hour in a cloth. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.