44 Arrangement and Economy of the-Kitchen. one and a half to two inches apart in front. The fire in the open range, generally speaking, can be made larger or smaller at pleasure by means of a movable check attached to a notched bar which is fixed at right angles to its surface on one side of it, and moved backwards and forwards by means of a small cog-wheel, to a greater or less distance from the fixed side of the grate, as may be found necessary. In the close range the fire-chamber is inexpansive, closed in front either wholly or partially by an iron door, and covered in at the top by an iron plate, movable, and generally ill two parts, namely, a circular plate, dropping into and filling an opening in a square plate, the size of the top of the fire box. At the back there is a fire-brick moulded into shape. In all other respects, as far as outward appearance goes, the close range is similar to the open range. Close ranges are now chiefly used, and but few open ranges are to be met with except in houses that have been built for some years, and in which the open range that was originally fixed in the kitchen, still remains. It is true that Mr. Constantine, of 61, Fleet Street, E.C., supplies a variety of his Improved Patent “ Treasure ” Cooking Ranges, which is called an “ open fire ” range ; but this differs only from the close range in having a grating of vertical bars in front, instead of the solid door. 82. Close Fire Panffes.—There is little doubt that “close fire" ranges were at first mostly used in Devonshire for the convenience of the hot plate over the top for scalding the milk to obtain the thick clotted cream which was con- verted by beating it with the hand into butter ; open ranges being then used in London and other parts of the United Kingdom. Gradually the use of the open range was abandoned for the Leamington range, which at one time may be said to have had it all its own way ; but now there are a variety of ranges, each claim- ing some special merit of its own, and rendering it a mat- ter of considerable difficulty to pick and choose between them. It may be said, how- ever, that economy of fuel and cleanliness are the chief features of close ranges of all kinds, combined with efficiency of action, provided that the flues themselves, through which the smoke and soot pass off into the chimney,leaving considerable deposits in the passage, are kept perfectly clean. 83 Crabtree’s Patent Close Fire Range.—It will be convenient first of all to deal with ranges that may Crabtree’s Patent Close Fire Range. be regarded absolutely as fixtures, and although there are many excellent ranges in the market, specialties of various manufacturers, yet as it is impossible to describe or even mention the names of all, it will be sufficient to select one or two which will serve as types of the best ranges yet contrived , and for this purpose Crabtree’s Patent Close Fire Range and the same maker's Patent Kitchener may be selected. The construction and general appearance of the Patent Close Fire Range may be gathered from the annexed