Fig Pudding. 839 Seasonable at any time. make the ends secure, tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil it from ij to 2 hours. Time.—1J to 2 hours. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1770.—FIG PUDDING. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of figs, J lb. of suet, J lb. of bread-crumbs, treacle, sugar. Mode.—Chop the suet and figs finely, then mix with the bread-crumbs, add a little sugar and enough treacle to make a paste. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and boil it an hour and a half- Time.—ij hour. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1771—FLOATING PUDDING. Ingredients. —1 quart of milk, 5 tablespoonfuls of corn-flour, 3 eggs, J lb. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Mode.—Nearly boil the milk, and meantime make a smooth batter of the corn-flour, well-whisked eggs, and a pinch of salt, adding the flavouring, and stir into the milk until it thickens. Have a dish ready with half the sugar strewed over the bottom, pour in the hot pudding, strew the remainder of the sugar over it, cover close, and set in a cool place. When cold, the pudding will be found floating in a sweet syrup. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in summer. 1772.-FOLKESTONE PUDDING-PIES. Ingredients.— 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of ground rice, 3 oz. of butter, Jib. of sugar, flavouring of lemon-peel or bay-leaf, 6 eggs, puff-paste, currants. Mode.—Infuse 2 laurel or bay leaves, or the rind of half a lemon, in the milk, and when it is well flavoured, strain it, and add the rice ; boil these for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time ; then take them off the fire, stir in the butter, sugar and eggs, and let these latter be well beaten before they are added to the other ingredients; when nearly cold, line some patty-pans with puff-paste, fill with the custard, strew over each a few currants, and bake from 20 to 25 minutes in a moderate oven. Time.—20 to 25 minutes. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to fill a dozen patty-pans.