781 Baked Tomatoes. digested. It is very light and laxitive. Wonderful properties have been ascribed to spinach. It is an excellent vegetable, and very beneficial to health. However dressed, it is a resource for poor or rich. Spinach.—This vegetable belongs to a sub-order of the Salso-Kxets, or saltworts, and is classified under the head of Spirolobete, with leaves shaped like worms, and of a succulent kind. In its geographical distribution it is commonly found in extra-tropical and temperate regions, where they grow as weeds in waste places and among rubbish, and in marshes by the seashore. In the tropics the order is rarely found Many of them are used as potherbs, and some of them are emetic and vermifuge in their medicinal properties. 1632.-SPINACH WITH BROWN GRAVY. (Fr.—Epinards au Jus.) Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 8 tablespoonfuls of good gravy ; when liked, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Pick, wash and boil the spinach, as in Recipe No. 1630, and, when quite tender, drain and squeeze it perfectly dry from the water that hangs about it. Chop it very fine, put the butter into a stewpan, and lay the spinach over that ; stir it over a gentle fire, and dredge in the flour. Add the gravy, and let it boil quickly for a few minutes, that it may not discolour. When the flavour of nutmeg is liked, grate some to the spinach, and when thoroughly hot, and the gravy has dried away a little, serve. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach ; 10 minutes to simmer in the gravy. Average Cost for the above quantity, 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July; winter spinach, from October to February. Note.—For a puree, spinach dressed by the above recipe may be pressed through a sieve, then into a hot mould; it should then be turned out quickly, and served very hot. 1633.—BAKED TOMATOES. (Fr.—Tomates au Gratin.) (Excellent.) Ingredients.—8 or 10 tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Take off the stalks from the tomatoes; cut them into thick slices, and put them into a deep baking-dish ; add a plentiful seasoning of pepper and salt, and butter in the above pi'oportion ; cover the whole with bread-crumbs; drop over these a little clarified butter; bake in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to half aD hour, and serve very hot. This vegetable, dressed as above, is an exceedingly nice accompaniment