Cream Sauce. 3*7 obtained. Remove it from the fire, and have in readiness the whites oi the eggs whisked to a firm froth with one tablespoonful of castor sugar. Stir this in without breaking up the frothy appearance. This is nice with any pudding. The cream may be omitted and a pint of milk used. Time.—15 minutes. Average Cost, is. id. with cream; yd. with milk. Seasonable at any time. 695.—CHRISTOPHER NORTH’S SAUCE. {For Meat or Game.) Ingredients.—I glass of port, 2 tablespoonfuls of good sauce, 1 dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, ditto of pounded white sugar, 1 table- spoonful of lemon-juice, ^ teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, ditto of salt. Mode.—Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, and heat the sauce gradually, by placing the vessel in which it is made in a saucepan of boiling water. Do not allow it to boil, and serve directly it is ready. This sauce, if bottled immediately, will keep good for a fortnight, and will be found excellent. 696.—CRAB SAUCE FOR FISH. {Equal to Lobster Sauce.) Ingredients.—1 crab, salt, pounded mace, and cayenne to taste ; £pint of melted butter made with milk (see No. 679). Mode.—Choose a nice fresh crab, pick all the meat away from the shell, and cut it into small square pieces. Make half a pint of melted butter by recipe No. 679, put in the fish and seasoning; let it gradually warm through, and simmer for 2 minutes. It should not boil. Average Cost, is. 2d. 697.—CREAM SAUCE. {For Fish or White Dishes.) Ingredients.—^ pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, salt and cayenne to taste, when liked a small quantity of pounded mace or lemon-juice. Mode.—Put the butter in a very clean saucepan, dredge in the flour, and keep stirring round till the butter is melted. Add the seasoning and cream, and stir the whole till it boils; let it just simmer for 5 minutes when add either pounded mace or lemon-juice to taste, to give it a flavour Time.—5 minutes to simmer. Average Cost, for this quantity, i id. This sauce may be flavoured with very finely shredded shalot.