848 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. Seasonable at any time, 1795.-LEMON CHEESE-CAKES. Ingredients.—£ lb. of butter, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs, the rind of 2 lemons and the juice of 3. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, carefully grating the lemon-rind and straining the juice. Keep stirring the mixture over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken : when of the consistency of honey, it is done ; then put it into small jars, and keep in a dry place. This mixture will remain good 3 or 4 months. When made into cheese-cakes, add a few pounded almonds, or candied peel, or grated sweet biscuit; line some patty-tins with good puff-paste, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake for about a quarter of an hour in a good brisk oven. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. 4d. Sufficient for 24 cheese-cakes. Seasonable at any time. 1796.—LEMON MINCEMEAT. Ingredients.—2 large lemons, 6 large apples, £ lb. of suet, 1 lb. of currants, ^ lb. of sugar, 2 oz. of candied lemon-peel, 1 oz. of citron, mixed spice to taste. Mode.—Pare the lemons, squeeze them, and boil the peel until tender enough to mash. Add to the mashed lemon-peel the apples, which should be pared, cored and minced ; the chopped suet, currants, sugar, sliced peel and spice. Strain the lemon-juice to these ingredients, stir the mix- ture well, and put it iu a jar with a closely-fitting lid. Stir occasionally, and in a week or 10 days the mincemeat will be ready for use. Average Cost, is. yd. Sufficient for 18 large or 24 small pies. Seasonable.—Make this about the beginning of December. 1797-—LEMON DUMPLINGS. Ingredients.—\ lb. of grated bread, £ lb. of chopped suet, £ lb. of moist sugar, 2 eggs, 1 large lemon. Mode.—Mix the bread, suet and moist sugar well together, adding the lemon-peel, which should be very finely minced. Moisten with the eggs and strained lemon-juice ; stir well, and put the mixture LEMON DUMPLINGS. . , r into small buttered cups. Tie them down and boil for three-quarters of an hour. Turn them out oa a cjish, $tJ[ew sifted sugar over them, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 6 dumplings.