1585 Consumption. sidiously. The consequence of such an inflammation is the choking up of the little cavities of which the lung consists in a portion of its substance, and the material thus deposited may either remain there for a length of time or at once proceed to soften and break down. Symptoms.—The earliest symptoms of consumption are probably connected with digestion, the appetite becomes capricious, there are pains in the chest with some cough often dry and hacking, with a small quantity of frothy expectoration. There is debility, flushing of the face on slight exertion; at other times the countenance is pale, unless there be a hectic patch of red in the middle of the cheek. There is some fever at night, and a tendency to night-sweats. Very likelv there is some spitting of blood. As the disease advances emaciation becomes more marked and the fingers become clubbed at their points. The night-sweats diarrhoea and expectoration reduce the bodily strength and substance; at the same time the capricious appetite and the imperfect digestion leave the bodily supply very deficient. Usually, if the disease be not arrested, the patient dies of Treatment.—The first and greatest point of all is the selection of the condition under which the patient is to live. On the continent of Europe there may be tound in different health resorts people who have all their lives had bad chests but who, by wandering from one health resort to another, according to the season ot the year, are able to maintain life comfortably. The first great thing in selecting a house, is the avoidance of damp. It should be situated on a dry and porous soil. These patients should live plainly, but their food should be nourishing. They must avoid excitement, but cheerful society is of the greatest value. They must not fatigue themselves, but daily exercise is essential. They must not be exposed to too great heat, but cold is even more to be dreaded, buch patients should always wear flannel, and the clothing must at all times be *varm. There are a great many health resorts that might be mentioned, but only a few are given here. The south coast of England or that of France. Torquay and South Devon, Hastings, Ventnor and Penzance are all places frequented by consumptives. A sea voyage to South Africa, Australia or New Zealand is useful in the early stages of the disease. When well advanced, it is unwise to send patients from home. Fat is one of the articles of food to which consumptive patients have a great aversion ; and it is a great pity, for it is to them the most necessary. If we cannot get them to take fat in the ordinary way as food, we must give them cod liver oil, which, indeed, is ratherfood than medicine. It ought to be given cautiously and after a meal. When oil cannot be taken by the mouth, it may be rubbed into the skin. The hypophosphites have proved useful in this disease. Fellows' syrup is an excellent preparation, and may be given in doses of a teaspoonful to an adult three times a day. Oil of eucalyptus is useful; it may be dropped on the sponge of one of Dr. Yeo’s respirators and inhaled ; three to five drops may be used at a time. Should bleeding come on, the patient should be kept at rest and the liquid extract of ergot given in fifteen- drop doses in water every two, three or four hours, according to severity. Ice, if it can be had, should be taken internally. Ten grains of gallic acid along with fifteen drops of aromatic sulphuric acid may be given every three hours instead of the ergot, if more convenient. Dry-cupping over the upper part of the chest is also useful. It may be done by burning a piece of blotting-paper in a wine- glass, and while it is lighted, turning it upside down upon the chest; the air is thus exhausted, and the deeper structures relieved by the local congestion that is caused. All food should be given cool. The night-sweats may be relieved by the administration of dilute sulphuric acid in fifteen-drop doses in water at bed-time, or ten drops of tincture of belladonna may be given in water. If the diarrhoea is troublesome, ten to fifteen drops of laudanum may be given along with fifteen /drops, of dilute sulphuric acid every four hours in water.