The Mistress. H attendants should be in waiting to assist in uncloaking, and helping to arrange the hair and toilet of those who require it. It will be found convenient, in those cases where the number of guests is large, to provide numbered tickets, so that they can be attached to the cloaks «,nd shawls of each lady; a duplicate of which should be handed to the guest. Tea and coffee is provided in an ante-room, for those who would like to partake of it. The Arrival of Guests.—The lady of the house usually stands at the door of the drawing-room to receive her guests. If she wishes to show particular favcfur to some peculiarly honoured guests, she may introduce them to others, where she may imagine mutual acquaintance will be specially suitable and agreeable. It is very often the practice of the master of the house to introduce one gentleman to another, but occasionally the lady performs this office; when it will, of course be polite for the persons thus introduced to take their seats together for the time being. The custom of non-introduction is very much in vogue in many houses, and guests are thus left to discover for themselves the position and qualities of the people around them. The ser- vant, indeed, calls out the names of all the visitors as they arrive, but, in many instances, mis- pronounces them; so that it will not be well to follow this information, as if it were an unerring guide. In our opinion, it is a cheerless and depressing custom; although, in 'bus speaking, we do not allude to the large assemblies of the aristocracy, but to the smaller panics of the middle classes. 35. Refreshments.— A separate room or buffet should be appropriated for refreshments, and to which the dancers may retire. With greater wealth have also come greater profusion and costlier wines than formerly. A supper is also mostly provided at the private parties of the middle classes ; and this requires, on the part of the hostess, a great deal of attention and supervision. It usually takes place between the first and second parts of the programme of the dances, of which there should be one given to each guest. Programmes of the dances are printed in various forms, and have pencils attached. The monogram of the hostess, or the name of the house, with the date of the party, generally heads these programmes. In private parties, a lady is not to refuse the invitation of a gentleman to dance, unless she be previously engaged. The hostess must he supposed to have asked to her house only those persons whom she knows to be perfectly respectable and of unblemished character, as well as pretty equal in position ; and thus, to decline the offer of any gentleman present would be a tacit reflection on the master and mistress of the house. It may be mentioned here, more especially for the young who will read this book, that introductions at balls or evening parties do not necessarily involve a subsequent acquaintanceship, no introduction, at these times, giving a gentleman a right to address, afterwards, a lady. She is consequently, free next morning to pass her partner at a ball of the previous evening without the slightest recognition. 36. Dancing.—The ball is generally opened, that is, the first place in the first quadrille is occupied, by the lady of the house. When anything prevents this, the host will usually lead off the dance with the lady who is either the highest in rank or the greatest stranger. It will be well for the hostess, even if she be very partial to the amusement, and a graceful dancer, not to participate in it to any great extent, lest the ladies of the party should have occasion to complain of her monopoly of the gentlemen, and other causes of neglect. A few dances will suffice to show her interest in the entertainment, without unduly trenching on the atten- tion due to her guests. In all its parts a ball should be perfect,— “ The music, and the banquet, and the wine ; The garlands, the rose-odours, and the flowers.” The hostess or host, during the progress of a ball, will courteously accost and chat with their friends, and take care that the ladies are furnished with seats, and that those who wish to dance