544 Recipes for Cooking Pork. paste. Stir it for ten minutes over the fire, then spread on rounds of hot buttered toast, and serve immediately. Time.—io minutes. Average Cost, gd. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1194.-FRIED HAM AND EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs Frits au Jambon.) {A Breakfast Dish.) Ingredients.—Ham ; eggs. Mode. — Cut the ham into slices, and take care that they are of the same thickness in every part. Cut off the rind, and if the ham should be particularly hard and salt, it will be found an improvement to soak it for about ten minutes in hot water, and then dry it in a cloth. Put it into a cold frying-pan, set it over the fire, and turn the slices three or four times whilst they are cooking. When done, place them on a dish, which should be kept hot in front of the fire during the time the eggs are being poached. Poach the eggs, slip them on to the slices of ham, and serve quickly. Time.—7 or 8 minutes to fry the ham. Average Cost, is. per lb. by the whole ham. Sufficient.—Allow 2 eggs and a slice of ham to each person. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Ham may also be toasted or broiled ; but, with the latter method, to insure its being well cooked, the fire must be beautifully clear, or it will have a smoky flavour far from agreeable. 1195.—POTTED HAM, that Will Keep Good for Some Time. (Fr.—Jambon en Terrine.) Ingredients.—To 2 lbs. of lean ham allow 1 lb. of fat, 2 teaspoonfuls of pounded mace, £ nutmeg, grated, rather more than £ teaspoonful of cayenne. Mode.—Mince the ham, fat and lean together in the above proportion, and pound it well in a mortar, seasoning it with cayenne pepper, pounded mace and nutmeg ; put the mixture into a deep baking-dish and bake for half an hour ; then press it well into a stone jar, fill up the jar with clarified lard, cover it closely, and paste over it a piece of thick paper. If well seasoned, it will keep a long time in winter, and will be found very convenient for sandwiches, &c. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3*. 64. Seasonable at any time.