198 The Natural History of Fishes. performing it, they fill their mouths with water, which they drive backwards with a force so great as to open the large flap, to allow it to escape behind. In this operation all, or a great portion, of the air contained in the water, is left among the feather-like processes of the gills, and is carried into the body, there to perform its part in the animal economy. In proof of this it has been ascer- tained that, if the water in which fishes are put, is, by any means, deprived of its dissolved air, they immediately seek the surface, and begin to gasp for it. Hence, in distilled water they are suffocated animals. For this reason, when a fishpond, or other aqueous receptacle in which fishes are kept, is entirely frozen over, it is necessary to make holes in the ice, not so especially for the purpose of feeding them, as for that of giving them air to breathe. The positions of the teeth of fishes are well calculated to excite our amazement; for, in some cases, these are situated in the jaws, sometimes on the tongue or palate, and sometimes even in the throat. They are in general sharp-pointed and immoveable; but in the carp they are obtuse, and in the pike so easily moved as to seem to have no deeper hold than such as the mere skin can afford. In the herring, the tongue is set with teeth, whereby it is enabled the better to retain its food. OSSEOUS AND CARTILAGINOUS FISH. 405.—Although Naturalists have divided Fishes into these two great tribes, yet the distinction is not very precise; for all have cartilage, and both calcareous matter in their bones. The backbone extends through the whole length of the body, and consists of vertebrae, strong and thick towards the head, but weaker and more slender as it approaches the tail. Each species has a de- terminate number of vertebrae, which are increased in size in proportion with the body. The ribs are attached to the processes of the vertebrae, and enclose the breast and abdomen. Some kinds, as the rays, have no ribs ; whilst others, as the sturgeon and eel, have very short ones. Between the pointed processes of the vertebrae are situated the bones which support the dorsal (back) and the anal ^below the tail) fins, which are connected with the processes by a ligament. At the breast are the sternum, or breastbone, clavicles, or collar-bones, and the scapulae, or shoulder-blades, on which the pectoral, or breast, fins are placed. The bones which support the ventral or belly fins are called the ossa pelvis. Besides these principal bones, there are often other smaller ones, placed between the muscles, which assist their motion. 406—The Organs of Sense in Fishes.—Some are supposed to be pos- sessed by them in a high degree, and others much less perfectly. Of the latter kind are the senses of touch and taste, which are believed to be very slightly developed. On the other hand, those of hearing, seeing and smelling are ascertained to be acute ; but the first in a lesser degree than both the second and third. Their possession of an auditory organ was long doubted, and even denied by some physiologists; but it has been found placed on the sides of the skull, or in the cavity which contains the brain. It occupies a position entirely distinct and detached from the skull, and, in this respect, differs in the local dis- position of the same sense in birds and quadrupeds. In some fishes, as in those of the ray kind, the organ is wholly encompassed by those parts which contain the cavity of the skull; whilst in the cod and salmon kind it is in the part within the skull. Its structure, is, in every way, much more simple than that of the same sense in those animals which live entirely in the air. In some genera, as in the rays, the external orifice, or ear, is very small, and is placed in the upper surface of the head ; whilst in others there is no visible external orifice whatever-