460 Recipes for Cooking Veal. Seasonable from March to October. Mode.—Fry the onions and garlic in 2 oz. of butter until of a light brown colour, rub the curry-powder over the meat, and fry it in the other 2 oz. of butter. Place all in the stewpan, and add the milk, which should be boiling; stew gently until the liquor is reduced to a third of the quantity. Half an hour before serving, add the lemon-juice and cloves. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 2s. $d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1019.—VEAL CUTLETS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Veau Panees.) Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of the prime part of the leg of veal, egg and bread-crumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, a small piece of butter. Mode.—Have the veal cut into slices about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, and, if not cut perfectly even, level the meat with a cutlet- bat or rolling-pin. Shape and trim the cutlets, and brush them over with the egg. Sprinkle with bread- crumbs, with which have been mixed minced herbs and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and press the crumbs down. Fry them of a delicate brown in fresh lard or butter, and be careful not to burn them. They should be very thoroughly done, but not dry. If the cutlets be thick, keep the pan covered for a few minutes at a good distance from the fire, after they have acquired a good colour: by this means, the meat will be done through. Lay the cutlets in a dish, keep them hot, and make a gravy in the pan as follows: Dredge in a little flour, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, brown it, then pour as much boiling water as is required over it, season with pepper and salt, add a little lemon-juice, give one boil, and pour it round the cutlets. They should be garnished with slices of broiled bacon, and a few forcemeat balls will be found a very excellent addition to this dish. Time.—For cutlets of a moderate thickness, about 12 minutes; if very thick, allow more time. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note—Veal cutlets may be merely floured and fried of a nice brown ; the gravy and garnishing should be the same as in the preceding recipe. They may also be cut from the loin or neck, as shown in the engraving. VEAL CUTLETS.