739 Brussels Sprouts. should be poured over the brocoli. If left in the water after it is done, it will break, its colour will be spoiled, and its crispness gone. If they are boiled too fast they break. Time.—Small brocoli, io to 15 minutes 25 minutes. Average Cost, $d. each. Sufficient, 2 for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from October to March ruary and March. The Kohl-Rabi, or Turnip-Cabbage.—This variety presents a singular de- velopment, inasmuch as the stem swells out like a large turnip on the surface of the ground, and leaves shooting from it all round, and the top being sur- brocoli. mounted by a cluster of leaves issuing from it. Although not generally grown as a garden vegetable, if used when young and tender, it is wholesome, nutritious, and very palatable, large one,20 to plentiful in Feb- 1548.-BOILED BRUSSELS SPROUTS. (Fr.—Choux de Bruxelles a la Sauce Blanche—a la Maitre d’Hotel—au Beurre.) Ingredients.—To each £ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda. Mode.—Clean the sprouts from insects, nicely wash them, and pick off any dead or discoloured leaves from the outsides ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion ; keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly over a brisk fire until tender ; drain, dish and serve with a tureen of melted butter, and maitre d’hotel sauce is sometimes poured over them. Another mode of serving is, when they are dished, to stir in about one and a half ounce of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. They must, however, be sent to table very quickly, as, being so very small, this vegetable soon cool. Where the cook is very expeditious, this vegetable, when cooked, may be arranged on the dish in the form of a pyramid ; and, so served, has a very pretty appearance. Time.—From 9 to 12 minutes after the water boils. Average Cost, id. or 4J. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow between 40 and 50 for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonble from November to March. Savoys and Brussels Sprouts.—When the green kale or borecole has been advanced a step further in the path of improvement, it assumes the headed or hearting character, with blistered leaves ; it is then known by the name of savoys and brussels sprouts. Another of its headed forms, but with smooth glaucous leaves, is the cultivated cabbage of our gardens (the Borecole oleracea capitula of science), and all its varieties of green, red, dwarf, tall, early, late, round, conical, flat, and all the forms into which it is possible to put it. 1549.—TO BOIL YOUNG GREENS OR SPROUTS. (Fr.—Choux de Bruxelles au Naturel au Jus.) Ingredients.—To each b gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda.