261 Fried Filleted Soles. a few minutes for them to get thoroughly crisp. Dish them on a hot napkin, garnish with cut lemon and fried parsley, and send them to table with shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. Time.—10 minutes for large soles; less time for small ones. Average Cost, from is. to 2s. per lb. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 558.-FRIED FILLETED SOLES. (Fr.—Filets de Sole Frits.) Soles for filleting should be large, as the flesh can be more easily separ- ated from the bones, and there is less waste. To skin any fish it must be kept wet. It is easier to skin if it is stale. Wet your fingers and have a cloth to hold it by. With flat fish begin at the tail, cut the skin across, but do not cut into the flesh, and loosen the skin along the fins on either side with a skewer or finger. Then tear up the skin with the left hand, keeping the thumb of the right well pressed over the backbone to prevent removing the flesh with the skin. Take a sharp knife to fillet and keep it close pressed to the bone. Skin and wash the fish, and raise the meat carefully from the bones, and divide it into nice handsome pieces. The more usual way is to roll or tie the fillets, after dividing each one in two pieces, and either bind them round with twine, or run a small skewer through them. Fillets of a small sole should not be divided. Brush over with egg and cover with bread-crumbs; fry them as directed in the fol- lowing recipe, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. When a pretty dish is desired, this is by far the most elegant mode of dressing soles, as they look much better than when fried whole. Instead of rolling the fillets, they may be cut into square pieces, and arranged in the shape of a pyramid on the dish. Plaice, haddock and skate can be served in Lhe same way. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average Cost, from is. to 2s. per lb. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, 2 large soles for 6 persons. 559.—FILLETED SOLES WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. (Fr.—Filets de Sole a I’ltalienne.) Ingredients.—2 soles, salt, pepper and grated nutmeg to taste, egg and bread-crumbs, butter, the juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Skin and carefully wash the soles, separate the meat from the bone and roll each fillet in the form of a pyramid. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and seasoning, and put them in a baking-