212 Recipes for Cooking Fish gently for i hour, or rather more, should it be very arge. Dish up the fish with great care, strain the liquor, and add to it the port wine, lemon- juice, and cayenne; give one boil, pour it over the fish, and serve. Time. -i£ hours. Average Cost, is. gd. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for ^ persons. Note.—This fish can be boiled plain, and served with parsley and butter, Chub and Char may be cooked in the same manner as the above, as also Dace and Roach. The Age of Carp.—This fish has been found to live 150 years. The pond in the garden of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, contained one that had lived there 70 years, and Gesner mentions an instance of one 100 years old. They are, besides, capable of being tamed. Dr. Smith, in his “ Tour on the Continent,” says, in reference to the Prince de Conde’s seat at Chantilly, “The most pleasing things about it were the immense shoals of very large carp, silvered over with age, like silver-fish, and perfectly tame ; so that, when any passengers approached their watery habita- tion, they us“d to come to the shore in such numbers as to heave each other out of the water, begging for bread, of which a quantity was always kept at band on purpose to feed them. They would even allow themselves to be handled.” THU CHUB. THE CHAR. The Chub (Fr. Meunler.)—This fish takes its name from its head, not only in England, but in other countries. It is a river-fish, and resembles the carp, but is somewhat longer. Its flesh is not in much esteem, being coarse, and, when out of season, full of small hairy bones. The head and throat are the best parts. The roe is also good. The Char iFr. Umble).—This is one of the most delicious of fish, being esteemed by some superior to the salmon. It is an inhabitant of the deep lakes of mountainous countries. Its flesh is rich and red, and full of fat. The largest and best kind is found in the lakes of Westmorland, and, as it is considered a rarity, it is often potted and preserved. The Dace, or Dare (Fr. Landosie).—This fish is gregarious, and is seldom above ten inches long ; although, according to Linnaeus, it grows afoot and a half in length. Its haunts are in deep water, near piles of bridges, where the stream is gentle, over gravelly, sandy, or clayey bottoms; deep holes that are shaded, water-lily leaves, and under the foam caused by an eddy. In the warm months they are to be found in shoals on the shallows near to streams. They are in season about the end of April, and gradually improve till February, when they attain their highest condition. In that month, when just taken, scotched (crimped), and broiled, they are said to be more palatable thaD a fresh herring. THE DACE. THE ROACH. The Roach (Fr Gardon.).—This fish is found throughout Europe and the Western parts of Asia, in deep still rivers, of which it is an inhabitant. It is rarely more than a’pound and a half in weight, and is in season from September till March. It is plentiful in England, and the finest are caught in the Thames.