Potted Beef. 407 909. —BEEF PATTIES. (Fr.—Pates de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—Underdone beef, 1 onion, pepper, salt, some lard crust. Mode.—Cut the meat into small square pieces, chop the onion finely and mix with the meat, adding salt and pepper. Roll the paste out rather thinly, cut it in rounds with a small saucer; put a little of the chopped meat on one half, fold the other over and pinch the edges together. Fry the patties in hot lard till of a nice light brown, or bake them in a good oven. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of meat, 5d. Seasonable at any time. 910. -A PICKLE FOR BEEF OR TONGUES. (Fr.—Boeuf Sal6.) (Newmarket Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 gallon of soft water, 3 lbs. of coarse salt, 6 oz. ot coarse brown sugar, ^ oz. of saltpetre. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and let them boil for half an hour; clear off the scum as it rises, and, when done, pour the pickle into a pickling-pan. Let it get cold, then put in the meat, and allow it to remain in the pickle from eight to fourteen days, according to the size. It will keep good for six months, if well boiled once a fortnight. Tongues will take one month or six weeks to be properly cured : and, in salting meat, beef and tongues should always be put in separate vessels. Time.—A moderate-sized tongue should remain in the pickle about a month, and be turned every day. 911. —POTTED BEEF. (Fr.—Terrine de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of lean beef, 1 tablespoonful of water, j lb. oi butter, seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, black pepper and anchovy sauce. Mode.—Procure a nice piece of lean beef, as free as possible from gristle, skin, &c., and put it into a jar (one with a lid, if at hand) with a tablespoonful of water. Cover it closely, and put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water, letting the water come within two inches of the top of the jar. Boil gently for three hours and a half, then take the beef, chop it very small with a chopping- knife, and pound it thoroughly in a mortar. Mix with it by degrees all, or a portion, of the gravy that will have run from it and a little clarified butter ; add the seasoning, put it into small pots for use, and cover with a little butter just warmed, and POTTING-JAR.