Boiled Haddock. 331 Note.—Haddocks may be filleted, rubbed over with egg and bread-crumbs, and fried a nice brown; garnish with crisped parsley. The Haddock.—This fish migrates in immense shoals, and arrives on the Yorkshire coast about the middle of winter. It is an inhabitant of the Northern seas of Europe, but does not enter the Baltic, and is not known in the Medi- terranean. On each side of the body, just beyond the gills, it has a dark spot, which superstition asserts to be the impressions of the finger and thumb of St. Peter, when taking the tribute-money out of a fish of this species. the hadi ock 481.—BOILED HADDOCK. (Fr.—Eglefin a I’Eau.) Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the fish, £ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Scrape the fish, take out the inside, wash it thoroughly, and lay it in a kettle, with enough water to cover it, and salt in the above pro- portion. Simmer gently from 15 to 20 minutes, or rather more, should the fish be very large. For small haddocks, fasten the tails in their mouths, and put them into boiling water; 10 to 15 minutes will cook them. Serve with plain melted butter or anchovy sauce. Time.—Large haddock, £ hour; small, j hour, or rather less. Aver- age Cost, from 4d. to is. Seasonable from August to February. Weight Of the Haddock.—The haddock seldom grows to any great size. In general, they do not weigh more than two or three pounds, or exceed ten or twelve inches in length. Such are esteemed very delicate eating; but they have been caught three feet long, when their flesh is coarse. 482. —DRIED HADDOCK. (Fn-Merlus.) Mode.—Dried haddock should be gradually warmed through, either before or over a nice clear fire. Rub a little piece of butter over, just before sending it to table. 483. —DRIED HADDOCK. (FV.-Merlus.) {Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 large, thick haddock, 2 bay-leaves, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley ; a little butter and pepper, boiling water. Mode.—Cut up the haddock into square pieces ; make a basin hot by means of hot water, which pour out. Lay in the fish with the bay- leaves and herbs; cover with boiling water; put a plate over to keep in the steam, and let it remain for 10 minutes. Take out the slices, put them on a hot dish, rub over with butter and pepper, and serve. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, gd. Seasonable at any time, but best in winter.