452 Recipes Jor Cooking \ecu. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from a cold fillet of veal, tiim off the brown outside, and mince the meat finely with the above proportion of ham ; should the meat be very dry, add a spoonful of good gravy. Season highly with pepper and salt, add the grated nutmeg and bread-crumbs, and mix these ingredients with i or 2 eggs well beaten, which should bind the mixture and make it li-ke forcemeat. In the meantime, boil the ma- caroni in salt and water, and drain it; butter a mould, put some of the macaroni at the bottom and sides of it, in whatever form is liked; mix the remainder with the forcemeat, fill the mould up to the top, put a plate or small dish on it, and steam for half an hour. Turn it out carefully, and serve with good gravy poured round, but not over, the meat. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 8d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Note—To make a variety, boil some carrots and turnips separately in a little salt and water; when done, cut them into pieces about i-8th inch in thickness; butter an oval mould, and place these in it, in white and red stripes alternately, at the bottom and sides. Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, and be very careful in turning it out of the mould. 1003. —MOULDED MINCED VEAL. (Fr.—Boudin du Veau.) (Cold, Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—I lb. of cold roast veal, a small slice of bacon, £ tea- npoonful of minced lemon-peel, £ onion chopped fine, salt, pepper, and pounded mace to taste, a slice of toast soaked in milk, 1 egg. Mode.—Mince the meat very fine, after removing from it all skin and outside pieces, and chop the bacon ; mix these well together, adding the 'lemon-peel, onion, seasoning, mace, and toast. When all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, beat up an egg, with which bind the mixture. Butter a shape, put in the meat, and bake or steam for three-quarters oi an hour; turn it out of the mould carefully, and pour round it a good brown gravy. A sheep’s head dressed in this manner is an economical and savoury dish. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 4d. Seasonable from March to October. 1004. -BRAISED NECK OF VEAL. (Fr.—Collet de Veau Braise.) Ingredients.—The best end of the neck of veal (from 3 to 4 lbs.), bacon, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nut-