Fried Potatoes. 769 Time.—20 to 40 minutes. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 2 large potatoes to each person. Seasonable all the year, but not good whilst new potatoes are in season. Uses of the Potato.—Potatoes boiled and beaten with soil.' milk form a sort of cheese which is made in Saxony; and when kept in close vessels, may be preserved for several years. Potatoes which have been exposed to the air and become green are very unwholesome. Cadet de Vaux asserts that potatoes will clean linen as well as soap; and it is well known that the berries of S. saponaceum are used in Peru for the same purpose. 1607.—HOW TO USE COLD POTATOES. (Fr.—Rechauffe de Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold potatoes ; to every lb. allow 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 ditto of miuced onions, 1 oz. of butter, milk. Mode.—Mash the potatoes with a fork until perfectly free from lumps; stir in the other ingredients, and add sufficient milk to moisten them well; press the potatoes in a mould, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely brown, which will be in from 20 minutes to half an hour. Turn them out of the mould and serve. Time.—20 minutes to £ hour. Seasonable at any time. Potato Bread.—The manner in which this is made is very simple. The adhesive tendency of the flour of the potato acts against its being baked or kneaded without being mixed with wheaten flour or meal; it may however, be made into cakes in the following manner:—A small wooden traine, nearly square, is laid on a pan like a frying-pan, and is grooved and so constructed that, by means of a presser or lid introduced into the groove, the cake is at once fashioned, according to the dimensions of the mould. The frame containing the farina may be almost immediately withdrawn dfter the mould is formed upon the pan ; because from the consistency imparted to the incipient cake by the heat, it will speedily admit of being safely handled; it must not, however, be fried too hastily. It will then eat very palatably, and might from time to time be soaked for puddings, like tapioca, or might be used like the cassada-cake, for, when well buttered and toasted, it will be found an excellent accompaniment to breakfast. In Scotland, cold boiled potatoes are frequently squeezed up and mixed with flour or oatmeal and an excellent cake or scone obtained. 1608.—FRIED POTATOES. (Fr.—Pommes de Terre Frites.) (French Fashion.) Ingredients.—Potatoes, hot oil or clarified dripping, salt. Mode.—Peel and cut the potatoes into thin slices, as nearly the same size as possible, parboil them and dry them i 1 a cloth ; make some oil or dripping quite hot in a saucepan; put in the potatoes and fry them to a nice brown. When they are crisp and done, take them up, place them on paper before the fire, and serve very hot, after sprinkling them with salt. These are delicious with rump-steak, and, in France are frequently served thus as a breakfast dish. The remains of cold potatoes may be sliced and fried by the above recipe, but the slices must be cut a little thicker. Time.—Sliced raw potatoes, 5 minutes; cooked potatoes, 5 minutes. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient.—6 sliced potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time.