6o6 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 1292.-STEWED DUCK AND PEAS. (Fr.—Canard aux Petits Pois.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast duck, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 2 pints of thin gravy, a small bunch of green onions, 3 sprigs of parsley, 3 cloves, 1 pint of young green peas, cayenne and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Put the butter into a stewpan ; cut up the duck into joints, lay them in with the slices of lean ham or bacon ; make it brown, then dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, and stir this well in before adding the gravy. Put in the onion, parsley, cloves and gravy, and when it has simmered for a quarter of an hour, add a pint of young green peas, and stew gently for about half an hour. Season with cayenne, salt and sugar; take out the duck, place it round the dish, and the peas in the middle. Time. — f hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold duck, is. 3d. Seasonable from June to August. Ducks Hatching.—Concerning incubation by ducks, a practised writer says, “The duck requires a secret and safe place, rather than any attendance, and will, at nature’s call, cover her eggs and seek her food. On hatching, there is not often a necessity for taking away any of the brood; and, having hatched, iet the mother retain her young ones upon the nest her own time. On her moving with her brood, let a coop be prepared upon the short grass, if the weather be tine, and under shelter, if otherwise. Cooping and Feeding Ducklings.—Brood ducks should be cooped at some distance from any other. A wide and flat dish of water, to be often renewed, should stand just outside the coop, and barley, or any other meal, be the first food of the ducklings. It will be needful, if it be wet weather, to clip their tails, lest these draggle, and so weaken the bird. The period of the duck’s confinement to the coop will depend on the weather, and on the strength of the ducklings. A fortnight is usually the extent of time necessary, and they may even be sometimes permitted to enjoy the luxury of a swim at the end of a week. They should not, however, be allowed to stay too long in the water at first; for they will then become ill, their feathers get rough, and looseness of the bowels ensue. In the latter case, let them be closely cooped for a tew days, and bean-meal or oatmeal be mixed with their ordinary food. The Aylesb-ory Duck.—The white Aylesbury duck is, and deservedly, an universal favourite. Its snowy plumage and comfortable comportment make it a credit to the poultry-yard, while its broad and deep breast, and its ample back, convey the assurance that your satisfaction will not cease at its death. In parts of Buckinghamshire, this member of the duck family is bred on an extensive scale; not on plains and commons, however, as might be naturally imagined, but in the abodes of the cottagers. Round the walls of the living- rooms, and of the bedroom even, are fixed rows of wooden boxes, lined with hay ; and it is the busi- ness of the wife and children to nurse and comfort the feathered lodgers, to feed the little ducklings, and to take the old ones out for an airing. Some- times the “stock” duoks are the cottager’s own property, but it more frequently happens that they are intrusted to his care by a wholesale breeder, who pays him so much per score for all ducklings properly raised. To be perfect, the Alyesbury duck should be plump, pure white, with yellow feet, and a flesh-coloured beak.