Miroton of Apples. 1281 Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. 2913.-NOUGATS A LA CREME. Ingredients.—I lb. of sweet almonds (or £ lb. of sweet and ^ lb. of bitter almonds), 1 lb. of white sifted sugar, 1 pint of whipped cream, some strawberries or crystallised fruit. Mode.—Blanch and peel the almonds, wash and dry them. Then cut them into slices lengthways (each almond into 5 or 6 slices), and dry them in a very slow oven, without allowing them to turn colour. Put the sugar in a preserving pan or lined saucepan, melt it, stirring gently with a wooden spoon to prevent catching. When a fine yellow colour, throw in gradually the almonds, which will have been kept hot, stirring all the time. Take off the fire and complete the mixing thoroughly. Have ready a number of patty pans and a tin plate, all oiled or buttered. Take a spoonful at a time of the almond and sugar nougat, flatten on the plate as thin as possible, using a lemon to flatten with, and line the patty pans, pressing against the sides w ith the lemon or a thoroughly clean carrot. Rapidity is required in this opera- tion, as the nougat cools quickly. When cold turn the nougat moulds out of the patty tins, fill them with whipped cream slightly flavoured with vanilla, and place a strawberry or raspberry or similar crystallised fruit on the top of each. Serve on a napkin. Time.—About ^ hour for stirring the nougat. Average Cost, 3s, Seasonable all the year round. 2914.-MIROTQN OF APPLES. Ingredients.—12 good-sized apples,^ lb. of apple and £ lb. of apricot marmalade, 2 lemons, 1 glass of brandy, £ lb. of sifted sugar, 1 teaspoonful of grated cinnamon. Mode.—Mix the apple and apricot marmalade together, and pile in the centre of a fire-proof plate. Peel, core and slice the apples evenly, and soak for 3 to 4 hours in the other ingredients. Then drain the slices of apple and arrange them symmetrically around and above the mound of marmalade, so as to forma dome. Half an hour before serving, put the dish in the oven, and take care that the apples are of a good colour. Time.—hour. Average Cost, is. 8a. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from August to February. NOUGATS A LA CREME.