334 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. pounded ; and for poultry or meat, where variety is desired, a little parsley-juice may be used to add to its appearance. Cucumber, tarra- gon, or any other flavoured vinegar, may be substituted for plain, where they are liked. Average Cost, for this quantity, yd. Sufficient for a small salad. Note.—In mixing the oil and vinegar with the eggs, put in first a few drops of oil, and then a few drops of vinegar, never adding a large quantity of either at one time. By this means, you can be more certain of the sauce not curdling. Patience and practice, let us add, are two essentials for making this sauce good. 735-MILK SAUCE. Ingredients.—£ pint of good milk or cream, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon- ful of flour, sugar to taste. Mode.—Beat the eggs, then put into a saucepan with the flour, sugar and milk or cream. Stir continuously till the boiling point is reached, then remove from the fire. Any flavouring liked may be. added. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, with milk, $d.; with cream, is. Seasonable at any time. 736.—MINT SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Menthe.) (To Serve with Roast Lamb.) Ingredients.—4 dessertspoonfuls of chopped mint, 2 dessertspoonfuls of pounded white sugar, | pint of vr .egar. Mode.—Wash the mint, which should be young and fresh-gathered, free from grit; pick the leaves from the stalks, mince them very fine, and put them into a tureen; add the sugar and vinegar, and stir till the former is dissolved. This sauce is better by being made 2 or 3 hours before wanted for table, as the vinegar then becomes impregnated with the flavour of the mint. By many persons, the above propor- tion of sugar would not be considered sufficient; but as tastes vary, we have given the quantity which we have found to suit the general palate. Average Cost, 3d. Sufficient to serve with a middle-sized joint of lamb. Note.—Where green mint is scarce and not attainable, mint vinegar may be substituted for it, and will be found very accept- able in early spring. Mint.—The common mint cultivated in our gardens is known as the Mentha viridis. and is employed in different culinary processes, being sometimes boiled with certain dishes, and afterwards withdrawn. It has an agreeable aromatic flavour and forms an ingredient in soups, and sometimes is used in spring salads. It is valuable as a stomachic and anti-spasmodic; on which account it is generally served at table with pea-soup. Several of its species grow wild in low situations in the country. MINT.