215 Sufficient for 4 persons. Cod Pie. 439. —SALT COD, (Fr.—Morue.) (Commonly called “ Salt Fish.”) Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the fish, vinegar, eggs. Mode.—Wash the fish, and lay it all night in water, with a quarter of of a pint of vinegar. When thoroughly soaked, take it out, see that it is perfectly clean, and put it in the fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it. Heat it gradually, but do not let it boil fast, or the fish will be hard. Skim well, and when done, drain the fish and put it on a napkin. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings. Time.—About x hour. Average Cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable in the Spring. Sufficient for each person, \ lb. Note.—Serve with egg-sauce and parsnips. This is an especial dish on Ash- Wednesday. Preserving Cod.—Immediately the cod are caught, their heads are cut off. They are then opened, cleaned and salted, when they are stowed away in the hold of the vessel, in beds of five or six yards square, head to tail, with a layer of salt to each layer of fish. When they have lain in this state three or four days, in order that the water may drain from them, they are shifted into a different part of the vessel, and again salted. Here they remain till the vessel is loaded, when they are sometimes cut into thick pieces and packed in barrels for the greater convenience of carriage. 440. —COD ROE. (Fr.—Laitances.) Mode.—Wash it well, and boil for xo minutes in water with a little salt and vinegar Cut it into dice, and put it into some melted butter made with cream. Butter a scallop tin, put in the roe, cover with brown bread-crumbs, and brown in the oven ; or serve it on hot buttered toast. It is often used as garnish to other fish. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. Seasonable in the Winter. Sufficient for 4 persons. 441.—COD PIE. {Fr.—Cabillaud aux Hultres et aux Pommes de Terre.) (Economical.) Ingredients.—Any remains of cold cod, £ a tin of oysters, sufficient •melted butter to moisten, mashed potatoes enough to fill up the dish. Mode.—Flake the fish from the bone, and carefully take away all the skin. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over the melted butter and oysters (or oyster sauce, if there is any left), and cover with mashed potatoes. Bake for half an hour, and send to table of a nice brown colour. Time.—| hour. Average Cost (exclusive of the fish, which should about half fill a medium-sized pie-dish), 6d. Seasonable from November to March.