THE CHILDREN’S HOUR. CHAPTER LXXI. MANAGEMENT OF NURSERY & SICK-ROOM, INCLUDING DUTIES OF MOTHER, GOVERNESS, NURSE, MONTHLY NURSE AND SICK-NURSE. THE MOTHER. 3442. A mother’s responsibilities are the greatest that a woman can have, for with her rests not only the care of her children, for their daily needs of food, clothing and the like, but what is even more important, their moral training. No matter what good nurses and attendants she may be able to engage for her little ones, what pleasures, changes of air, model nurseries, toys and books she may afford for their benefit, she should still devote, at any rate, some part of her time to them ; should be with them often, should know their individual childish tastes and faults, and strive by her influence, precepts and example to make them what she hopes they may be in the future. 3443. A mother’s influence is greater than any other with children, it is easier for her than anyone else to train them aright if she be a good and loving one, and the little ones will rather obey her commands than those of nurse or governess, no matter how kind these may be to those under their charge. Some women of fashion, living constantly in society, deny that they have time to give their little ones, their visits to schoolroom or nursery are like those of the angels, few and far between. They have everything beautifully appointed in the children’s quarters, and first-rate nurses and governesses, and they cannot take time from gaiety and pleasure—spared, however, by the highest lady in the land for that purpose—to devote to what they think can be obtained from hired service. It is a mistake : no nurse can do what a mother can, and the race of good old nurses is fast dying out. We do not often see in modern nurseries, with all their new furniture and convenience, those who have nursed a former generation of the family, who care for the children as their own, and who have few theories, but much practical knowledge of how to treat, both in sickness gnd b. ,aith, the little ones in their care.