242 Recipes for Cooking Fish. should not be put in the batter all at once, as that would cool it. Cooked with care, this forms an excellent supper dish. Some persons wrap each two oysters in a thin roll of bacon, skewer it together, and then dip it in batter and fry it. This makes a simple sort of oyster kromeskey. Tinned oysters might be used. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, without the oysters, 6d. Seasonable, with fresh oysters, September to April. 510.—QYSTER FRITTERS. (From Tinned Oysters.) Ingredients.—A few rashers of fat bacon, 1 tin of oysters. Mode.—Cut the rashers very thin and about 3 inches square ; to each put 2 oysters, roll them up and run them on a skewer. Cook on a tin in the oven. Time.—About 10 minutes to cook the fritter. Average Cost, 10J. Seasonable at any time. The Edible Oyster.—This shell-fish is almost universally distributed near the shores of seas in dll latitudes, and they especially abound on the coasts of France and Britain. The coasts most celebrated, in England, for them, are those of Essex and Suffolk. Here they are dredged up by means of a net with an iron scraper at the mouth, that is dragged by a rope from a boat over the beds. As soon as taken from their native beds, they are stored in pits, formed for the purpose, furnished with sluices, through which, at the spring tides, the water is suffered to flow. This water, being stagnant, soon becomes green in warm weather; and, in a few days afterwards, the oysters acquire the same tinge, which increases their value in the market. They do not, however, attain their perfection and become fit for sale till the end of six or eight weeks. Oysters are not considered proper for the table till they are the edible oyster. about a year and a half old, so that the brood of one spring are not to be taken for sale, till, at least, the September twelvemonth afterwards. These oyster-beds have been so over-fished, that years must elapse before the supply is at all equal to the demand, Hence the present high price of these delicious bivalves. 511.—SCALLOPED OYSTERS. (Fr.—Huitres a la Poulette.) Ingredients.—Oysters 3 doz., 1 oz. butter, flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, pepper and salt to taste, bread- crumbs, oiled butter. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor; take them out, beard them, and strain the liquor free from grit. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stew- pan ; when melted, dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up; add the stock, cream and strained liquor, and give one boil. Put in the oysters and seasoning; let them gradually heat through, but not boil. Have ready the scallop-shells buttered ; lay in the oysters, and as much of the liquid as they will hold ; cover them over with bread-crumbs, over which drop a little oiled butter. Brown them in the oven, or before the fire, and