Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 862 thau the black variety. It has been called Sultana from its delicate qualities and unique growth ; the finest are those of Smyrna. They have not sufficient flavour and sugary properties to serve alone for puddings and cakes, but they are peculiarly valuable for mixing, that is to say, for intro- ducing in company with the richer sorts of Valencias or Muscatels. In white puddings, or cakes, too, where the whiteness must be preserved, the Sultana raisin should be used. But the greatest value of this fruit in the cuisine is that of its saving labour; for it has no stones. It requires, however, careful picking over to remove stalks, &c. Half Muscatels and half Sultanas is an admirable mixture for general purposes. 1835.-PLUM PUDDING. (John Bull's Own.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of suet, I lb. of moist sugar, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of sultana raisins, 1 lb. of mixed candied peel, £ lb. of bread-crumbs, |lb.of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 of mixed spice, 8 eggs, £ pint of brandy. Mode.—Finely chop the suet, stone the raisins, remove stalks, &c., from the sultanas, thoroughly wash and dry the currants, chop the peel, and sift the bread-crumbs; mix all in the following order. Flour, salt, spice, sugar, raisins, peel, bread-crumbs, sultanas, and currants. Beat the eggs and strain them for 10 minutes; add the brandy to them and pour over the mass; stir for 25 minutes until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed; butter a mould, and fill it; scald a clean cloth and flour it; tie the pudding down, and boil 13 hours. Time.—13 hours. Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable on Christmas Day and in winter. Note.—In buying mixed spice, avoid the packets in which it is usually sold. Any good grocer will grind spices freshly, if desired. The spice in packets is usually gritty. 1836.—A PLAIN CHRISTMAS PUDDING FOR CHILDREN. Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, 1 lb. of bread-crumbs, f lb. of stoned raisins, f lb. of currants, f lb. of suet, 3 or 4 eggs, milk, 2 oz. of candied peel, 1 teaspoonful of powdered allspice, \ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Let the suet be finely chopped, the raisins stoned, and the currants well washed, picked, and dried. Mix these with the other dry ingredients, and stir all well together; beat and strain the eggs to the pudding, stir these in, and add just sufficient milk to make it mix properly. Tie it up in a well-floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for at least five hours ; serve with a sprig of holly placed in the middle of the pudding, and a little pounded sugar sprinkled over it. Time —5 hours. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 9 or 10 children. Seasonable at Christmas.