236 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 493—DEVILLED LOBSTER. (Fri— Homard a la Diable.) Ingredients.—A fine lobster, some salad-dressing, cayenne pepper and bread-crumbs (fine). Mode.—Cut the meat fine. Make a salad-dressing, using butter the size of an egg for sweet oil, a little cayenne pepper, and 3 tablespoon- fuls of crumbs ; mix this with the lobster and place it in the lobster- shell, sprinkle bread-crumbs over the top, with bits of butter; bake 20 minutes, or till brown on top. Eaten hot or cold, it is very nice. Time.—4 hour. Average Cost, 2s. to 3s. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 494— MAYONNAISE OF LOBSTER. (Fr.-Homard en Mayonnaise.) Ingredients.—1 large or 2 small lobsters, 1 pint aspic jelly, 3 hard- boiled eggs, a large lettuce, a few tarragon leaves, capers, olives stoned, and truffles (if the latter are easily procurable); pepper and salt, Mayon- naise sauce (see Sauces). Mode.—Put into a quart border mould enough melted aspic jelly to thinly cover it, and when it begins to set, arrange the flesh of the body and claws of the lobster, which should be cut into neat pieces, in it with a few tarragon leaves and capers, filling up the mould with the jelly. Well wash, dry and shred the lettuce, and mix with it the remainder of the lobster, the oil and vinegar, with pepper and salt. When the mould is firmly set turn it out and pile the salad in the centre, and round it as a border, and mask it smoothly with a thick Mayonnaise sauce. Lastly garnish the whole with the eggs cut up, the coral and little claws of the lobster, the capers and truffles, &c. Average Cost (exclusive of sauce), 3s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. A good supper-dish. Sufficient for 6 persons. 495- —POTTED LOBSTER. (Fr.—Terrine de Homard.) Ingredients.—2 lobsters, seasoning to taste of nutmeg, pounded mace, white pepper and salt; 4 lb- of butter, 3 or 4 bay-leaves. Mode.—Take out the meat carefully from the shell, but do not cut it up. Put some butter at the bottom of a dish, lay in the lobster as evenly as possible, with the bay-leaves and seasoning between. Cover with butter, and bake for three quarters of an hour in a gentle oven. When done, drain the whole on a sieve, and lay the pieces in potting jars, with the seasoning about them. When cold, pour over it clarified butter, and, if very highly seasoned, it will keep some time.