756 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 1582.-MIXED VEGETABLES FOR GARNISH. (Fr.—Macedoine.) Ingredients.—4 carrots, 4 turnips, equal quantities of peas, asparagus, cauliflower, brussels sprouts, French beans, butter, pepper, salt, sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce, No. 665, stock No. 273. Mode.—Wash and scrape the turnips and carrots, which must be good and sound, shape them into filberts, olives, &c., by means of the instru- ments sold almost anywhere for the purpose. Boil them in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, a pinch of salt and sugar and a little stock. When done, drain them quite dry and put them into a saute-pan with equal quantities of the vegetables named above, previously cooked and quite dry, cut in diamonds ; add the white sauce, more salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of sugar. Stir lightly over the fire, then serve as directed for the different dishes. 1583.—MAIZENA, OR INDIAN CORN. (Fr.-Mai's.) Ingredients.—2 young “ears” of Indian corn, 3 quarts of water, 3 tabiespoonfuls of salt. Mode.—Cut off the stem, and throw the green ears into cold water, with the above proportion of salt, and boil slowly for three-quarters of an hour, or until tender. Serve on toast, with melted butter No. 676. Time.—| of an hour after the water boils. Average Cost, Seldom bought in London. In Liverpool, 3d. to 4d. per ear. Sufficient.—One ear for each person. Seasonable in August and September. 1384. — BAKED MUSHROOMS. (Fr.—Champignons au Beurre.) (A Breakfast, Luncheon, or Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—16 or 20 mushroom-flaps, butter, pepper to taste. Mode.—For this mode of cooking, the mushroom-flaps are better than the buttons and should not be too large. Cut off a portion of stalk, peel the top, and put them at once into a tin baking-dish, with a very small piece of butter placed on each mushroom ; sprinkle over a little pepper, and let them bake for about twenty minutes, or longer should the mush- rooms be very large. Have ready a very hot dish, pile the mushrooms high in the centre, pour the gravy round, and send them to table quickly on very hot plates. Time-—20 minutes ; large mushrooms, | hour. 1 Average Cost, 8d. to is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable—Meadow mushrooms in September and October; culti- vated mushrooms may be had at any time.