7q8 General Observations for Puddings and Pastry. 1671. All boiled Puddings should be put on in boiling water, which must not be allowed to stop simmering, and the pudding must always be covered with the water ; if requisite, the sauce- pan should be kept filled up. Many light puddings are better steamed than boiled. To prevent a pudding boiled in a cloth from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan, place a small plate or saucer underneath it, and set the pan on a trivet over the fire. If a mould is used, this precaution is not necessary ; but care must be taken to keep the pudding well covered with water. For dishing a boiled pudding as soon as it comes out of the pot, dip it into a basin of cold water, let it stand to cool a minute, and the cloth will not then adhere to it, nor will it break. Great expedition is necessary in sending puddings to table, as, by standing, they quickly become heavy, batter puddings particularly. For baked or boiled puddings, the moulds, cups, or basins should be always'buttered before the mixture is put in them, and they should be put into the saucepan directly they are filled. A batter pudding is better for standing awhile. boiled-pudding mould. BOILED-PUDDING MOULD. Scrupulous attention should be paid to the cleanliness of pudding-cloths, as, from neglect in this particular, the outsides of boiled puddings frequently taste very disagreeably. As soon as possible after it is taken off the pudding it should be soaked in water, and then well washed, without soap, unless it be very greasy. It should be dried out of doors, then folded up, and kept in a dry place. When wanted for use, dip it in boiling water, and dredge it slightly with flour. 1673. The Ingredients for Puddings are generally better for being mixed some time before they are wanted. A pinch of salt is an improvement to the generality of puddings ; but this ingredient should be added very sparingly, as the flavour should not be detected. When baked puddings are sufficiently solid, turn them out of the dish they were baked in. bottom uppermost, and strew over them finely sifted sugar. When pastry or baked puddings are not done through, and yet the outside is sufficiently brown, cover them over with a piece of white paper until thoroughly cooked ; this prevents them from getting burnt. 1672. Cleanliness.— PUDDING BASIN.