174 Recipes for Soups. 358.—IMPERIAL SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe Royale.) Ingredients.—5 eggs, 2 quarts of stock, No. 275, salt and nutmeg. Mode.—Take 1 pint of stock and season it with salt and nutmeg. Well whisk the eggs, then beat them into the soup, and put it into a well-buttered mould or basin ; put on a cover, or a thickly floured cloth, and put the basin into a saucepan of boiling water, let it boil one hour, but not fast, or the custard will be full of holes. Then turn it out of the basin, cut it into thin slices or small pieces; heat the remainder of the stock, add the custard to it, and serve. Time.—i£ hours. Average Cost, is.qd. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 6 persons. 359—MOCK TURTLE. (Fr.—Consomm6 de Tete de Veau.) Ingredients.—% a calf s head, £ lb. of butter, J lb. of lean ham, a bunch of herbs, basil, 2 onions, a few chopped mushrooms (when obtain- able), 2 shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, £ bottle of Madeira or sherry, force-meat balls, cayenne, salt and mace to taste, the juice of 1 lemon and 1 Seville orange, 1 dessertspoonful of pounded sugar, 3 quarts of best stock, No. 272. Mode.—Scald the head with the skin on, remove the brain, tie the head up in a cloth, and let it boil for 1 hour. Then take the meat from the bones, cut it into small square pieces, and throw them into cold water. Now take the meat, put it into a stewpan, and cover with stock ; let it boil gently for an hour, or rather more, if not quite tender; and set it on one side. Melt the butter in another stewpan, and add the ham, cut small, with the herbs, parsley, onions, shallots, mushrooms, and nearly a pint of stock; let these simmer slowly for 2 hours, and then dredge in as much flour as will dry up the butter. Fill up with the re- mainder of the stock, add the wine, let it stew gently for 10 minutes, rub it through a tammy, and put it to the calf s head ; season with cayenne, and, if required, a little salt ; add the juice of the orange and lemon ; and when liked, \ teaspoonful of pounded mace, and the sugar. Put in the force-meat balls, simmer 5 minutes, and serve very hot. Time.—4^ hours Average Cost, 2s. 9d. per quart, or 2s. 6d. without wine or force-meat balls. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 persons. Note.—The bones of the head should be well stewed in the liquor it was first bpiled in, and will make good white stock, flavoured with vegetables, #c.