The Homes opathist. t6i8 3679. Diet.—In homoeopathy strict attention to diet is required, and un- questionably this is most helpful in the treatment of all diseases, and in some ailments of a minor kind sufficient to effect a cure, although this is denied by homoeopathic practitioners, who assert that attention to diet can never be effectual in effecting a cure, but is useful in allowing the full curative action of the medicine given. It is almost needless to add that close attention to diet is necessary only during treatment, though it is at all times desirable for everyone, whether man, women or child to be temperate and prudent both in eating and drinking if they desire to keep in good health. 3680. Medicines used in Homoeopathy.—For home treatment medicine chests are supplied by all homoeopathic chemists, and chemists and druggists in general, with the medicines that are most commonly used The fol- lowing list of such medicines is taken from Dr. Epps’s “ Epitome of the Homoeo- pathic Family Instructor,” a most useful manual for home use and home prac- tice :— Aconitum napellus. Antimonium tartaricum. Arnica montana (*). Arsenicum album. Belladona. Bryonia. Camomilla. China. Cina. Cocculus. Coffaea cruda. Cuprum. Drosera. Dulcamara. Hepar Sulphuris. Ignatia. Ipecacuanha. Mercurius. Nux vomica. Opium. Pulsatilla. Rhus toxicodendron (*). Soongia. Sulphur. The medicines marked above with an asterisk, with Calendula, Cantharides, Concentrated Tincture of Camphor and Ledum Palustre, are also used for external applications. HOMCEOPATHIC TREATMENT OF DISEASES. In so brief a notice of the principles and practice of homoeopathy it is mani- festly impossible to give even a list of the diseases to which human beings are unfortunately subject, and the special remedies that are used for their relief. The utmost that can be done under the circumstances, and the limited amount of space at command, is to enumerate in alphabetical order a few of the most common ailments that man is subject to, and briefly indicate the treatment that they require and the medicines that are employed to counteract them. 3681. Appetite, Failure of.—For loss of appetite, accompanied by con- stipation of the bowels, pain in the stomach, especially a feeling of fulness at the pit of the stomach after eating, with broken and unrefreshing sleep, Nux vomica is needed, which maybe taken in alternation with Sulphur in doses of one drop of the tinctures in a tablespoonful of water every three hours. 3682. Biliousness.—For an ordinary bilious attack which frequently follows indulgence in what is called good eating and drinking and is often the outcome of sedentary occupations, the usual remedies are Mercurius and Nux vomica in alternation in doses of one drop of the tinctures in a tablespoonful of water every two hours till relief is obtained. Pulsatilla is prescribed for persons of fair complexion, especially women, instead of Nux vomica. The ordinary symptoms^jf such an attack are a foul tongue with nausea and frequently actual vomiting."