Haricot of Beef. 569 1240.—MEAT CROQUETTES. Ingredients.—1 lb. of meat, £ lb. of bread-crumbs or cold potatoes, i lb. of dripping, salt, pepper, 1 egg, hot lard, parsley. Mode.—Chop the meat and bread-crumbs fine, then mix thoroughly with the dripping and seasoning. Make the mixture into small rolls, dip them in the beaten egg, then in fine bread-crumbs, and fry 4 or 5 minutes in boiling lard until they are a good brown. Serve with gravy round them'; garnish with fried parsley. This is a good luncheon or supper dish. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, nd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1241.—CURRIED BEEF. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of Australian beef, 3 oz. of butter or beef dripping, I onion, 1 apple, £ pint of stock, No. 274, or any weak broth, or water, 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder, 1 of flour. Mode.—Slice the onion and fry it in the butter or dripping to a light brown, add the stock, an unripe apple, minced very fine, and work in smoothly and gradually the curry powder and flour. Stir well and boil for 4 minutes, then pass it through a sieve. Cut the meat into trim, square pieces, dredge them with flour and add to the rest, simmer 5 minutes, keeping the meat well covered with the gravy. Serve with a border of boiled rice round the dish. [Or, see recipe for curried lobster.] Time.—£ hour; 20 minutes to boil the rice. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time, but especially in winter. 1242.—HARICOT OF BEEF. Ingredients.—1 pint of haricot beans, 1 lb. tin of beef, oz. of butter, 2 onions, £ pint of stock, No. 273, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 glass of port, 1 table- spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, pepper, salt, flour, ground rice. Mode.—Soak the beans overnight, drain them and put them in a saucepan with 2 quarts of water and boil for two hours, or till thoroughly tender, then drain and put them to dry beside the fire with the saucepan lid slightly raised, then put in half an oz. of butter, pepper and salt. In another saucepan prepare a sauce as follows : Put an ounce of butter in the pan and fry the sliced onions of a nice brown, cv.. up the turnip and carrot, add them, and mix the stock smoothly with 1 tablespoonful of ground rice, put that in the saucepan, and the port wine and Harvey's sauce, simmer for half an hour. Empty the tin of beef, cut the meat