Everton Toffee. 1067 a buttered dish; and just before the toffee is done, add the essence of lemon. Butter a dish or tin, pour on it the mixture, and when cool it will easily separate from the dish. Butter-Scotch, an excellent thing for coughs, is made with brown, instead of white sugar, omitting the water, and flavoured with half an ounce of powdered ginger. It is made in the same manner as toffee. Time.—18 to 35 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient to make a lb. of toffee. 2340.—EVERTON TOFFEE. (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of treacle, 1 lb. of moist sugar, £ lb. of butter. Mode.—Put the above ingredients into a saucepan large enough to allow of fast boiling over a clear fire; put in the butter first, and rub it well over the bottom of the saucepan, then add the treacle and sugar, stirring together gently with a knife. After it has boiled about 10 minutes, ascertain if it is done, in the following way :—Have ready a basin of cold water, and drop a little of the mixture into it from the point of a knife. If it is sufficiently done, when you take it from the water it will be quite crisp. Now pre- pare a large shallow tin pan, or dish, rubbed all over with butter, to prevent its adhering, and into this pour the toffee from the saucepan to get cold, when it can be easily removed. To keep it good it should be excluded from the air. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient to make 2 lbs. of toffee. 2341.—EVERTON ALMOND TOFFEE. Ingredients.—i^- lb. of brown sugar, 9 oz. of butter, 1 teacupful of water, 1 lemon, £ lb. of almonds. Mode.—Boil the sugar, butter, water, and half the rind of the lemon together, and when sufficiently done, let it stand aside till the boiling has ceased, then stir in the juice of the lemon. To try when the toffee is done, drop a little into a cup of cold water. Blanch the almonds and divide them in halves. Butter a shallow tin and lay them close together flat- side downwards upon it, then pour in the toffee. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is, 9d. Sufficient for 2 lbs. of toffee. 2342.—CANDIED CHESTNUTS. Ingredients.—Chestnuts, lemon-juice, syrup. Mode.—Remove the outer skin of the nuts, and put them into a pan of boiling water for a minute or so till the second skin comes off easily ; after