Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 8i6 1712.—APPLE CAKE. {Get.—.Appel Tort.) (A German Recipe.) Ingredients.—10 or X2 apples, sugar to taste, the rind of 1 small lemon, 3 eggs, £ pint of cream or milk, \ lb. of butter, £ lb. of good short crust, No. 1679, 3 oz. of sweet almonds. Mode. —Pare, core and cut the apples into small pieces; put sufficient moist sugar to sweeten them into a basin ; add the lemon-peel, which should be finely minced, and the cream ; stir these ingredients well, whisk the eggs and melt the butter ; mix altogether ; add the sliced apple and let these be well stirred into the mixture. Line a large round plate with the paste, place a narrow nm of the same round the outer edge, and lay the apples thickly in the middle. Blanch the almonds, cut them into long shreds, and strew over the top of the apples, and bake from half to three- quarters of an hour, taking care that the almonds do not get burnt; when done, strew some sifted sugar over the top and serve. This tart may be eaten either hot or cold, and is sufficient to fill 2 large-sized plates. Time.—^ to \ hour. Average Cost, is. 10d. Sufficient for 2 large-sized tourtes. Seasonable from August to March. Apples.—No fruit is so universally popular as the apple. It is grown extensively for cider, but many sorts are cultivated for the table. The apple uncooked is less digestible than the pear ; the degree of digestibility varying according to the firmness of its texture and flavour. Very wholesome and delicious jellies, marmalades and sweetmeats are prepared from it. Entremets of apples are made in great variety. Apples, when peeled, cored and well cooked, gre a most grateful food for the dyspeptic. 1713— ALMA PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of fresh butter, £ lb. of powdered sugar, £ lb. of flour, \ lb. of currants, 4 eggs. Mode.— Beat the butter to a thick cream, strew in, by degrees, the sugar and mix these both well together; then dredge the flour in gradually^ add the currants, and moisten with the eggs, which should be well beaten. When all the ingredients are well stirred and mixed, butter a mould that will hold the mixture exactly, tie it down with a cloth, put the pudding into boiling water and boil for 6 hours; when turned out, strew some powdered sugar over it, and serve. ‘Time.—6 hours Average Cost, is. 4^ Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time, 1714.—BAKED APRICOT PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—12 large apricots, f pint of bread-crumbs, 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 glass of sherry. Mode.-—Make the milk boiling hot, and pour it on to the bread-crumbs;