288 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Mode.—Put the butter into a stewpan; set this on the fire, throw in the onions cut in rings, and fry them a light brown ; then add the beef and bacon, which should be cut into small square pieces; season, and pour in a teacupful of water, stirring the contents. Now fill up with water in the above proportion ; let it boil up, when draw it to the side of the fire to simmer very gently for 3 or 4 hours ; strain, and when cold take off all the fat. In thickening this gravy, melt oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 2 oz. of flour, and stir till of a light-brown colour; add it to the strained gravy, and boil it up quickly. This gravy may be made to look nice with a little drop of Sutton’s Browning. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average Cost, 4d. per pint. Cloves.—This very agreeable spice is the unexpanded flower-buds of the Caryophyllus aromaticus, a handsome branching tree, a native of the Malacca Islands. They take their name from the Latin word clavtis, or the French clou, both meaning a nail, and to which the clove has a considerable resemblance. Cloves were but little known to the ancients, and Pliny appears to be the only writer who mentions them; and, he says, vaguely enough, that some were brought to Rome, very similar to grains of pepper, but somewhat longer ; that they were only found in India, in a wood consecrated to the gods ; and that they served in the manufacture of perfumes. The Dutch, as in the case of the nutmeg, endeavoured, when they gained possession of the Spice Islands, to secure a monopoly of cloves, and, so that the cultivation might be confined to Ambroyna, their chief island, bribed the surrounding chiefs to cut down all trees elsewhere. The Ambroyna, or royal clove, is said to be the best, and is rare ; but other kinds, nearly equally good, are produced in other parts of the world, and they come to Europe from Mauritius, Bourbon, Cayenne, and Martinique, as also from St. Kitt's, St. Vincent’s, and Trinidad. The clove con- tains about 20 per cent, of volatile aromatic oil, to which is attributed its peculiar pungent flavour, its other parts being composed of woody fibre, water, gum and resin. 615.—BROWN GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. (Fr.—Sauce Brune, Maigre.) Ingredients.—2 large onions, 1 large carrot, 2 oz. of butter, 3 pints of boiling water, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, a wine-glassful of good beer, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Slice, flour and fry the onions and carrots in the butter until of a nice light-brown colour; then add the boiling water and the remain- ing ingredients; let the whole stew gently for about an hour ; then strain, and when cold, skim off all the fat. Thicken it in the same manner as recipe No. 614; and, if thought necessary, add a few drops of colouring. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 2d. per pint. Note.—The addition of a small quantity of mushroom ketchup or other sauce very much improves the flavour of this gravy. 616.—BROWNING FOR GRAVIES AND SAUCES. (Fr.—Caramel.) The browning for soups (see No. 281) answers equally well for sauces and gravies, when it is necessary to colour them in this manner; but where they can be made to look brown by using ketchup, wine, browned