1636 Legal Memoranda. in the British Isles is void in law, and the children of the marriage have no legiti- mate rights of inheritance or succession to property of any kind, unless specifically bequeathed to them. Such marriages are legal in some other countries ; and such a marriage, having been duly effected in any such country, is subsequently binding in the British Isles in every respect, the children being legally legitimate, and entitled to all legitimate rights. A custom has arisen for persons to resort to such a country for the purpose of procuring a marriage, to be subsequently recognised as binding in England ; but if both the parties to the marriage are content to make a mere flying visit to such country for the purpose of evading the British mar- riage law, their marriage is as illegal as if the formalities had been gone through in England. To render such a marriage legal it is essential that one of the par- ties must have obtained a domicile in the country where the marriage was legally effected, which domicile can only be inferred from a bona fide residence there for some considerable time. Prohibition of marriage equally extends to minors, unless their marriage is specifically assented to by their parents or guardians, or unless the minor have no parents or guardians. If there be a declaration of such assent when it has not been given, the marriage is voidable by proceedings of the parents. If both parties make such a declaration fraudulently, or assent to one knowing it to be a fraud, the marriage is void, whether proceeded upon or not, and the children are not legitimate. A parent or guardian is entitled to stop such a pretence of mar- riage at any moment before the ceremony is completed. All unmarried persons who are twenty-one years of age, and who are not pro- hibited by relationship, are entitled to marry without anyone’s assent, and in defiance of every objection. ! 3726. Authority to Marry.—Marriage in England is impossible until a specific authority has been procured. It may be by publication of banns in any parish where the parties reside, or in both parishes if the parties reside in different parishes. It may be by licence of a bishop or his surrogate in a parish where one of the parties has resided for the previous fifteen days. It may be by special licence of the Archbishop of Canterbury, which cannot be obtained except by persons expressly approved by the Archbishop. It may be by certificate of a superintendent registrar in a district where one of the parties has resided for the previous seven days, the authority being completed twenty-one days afterwards. It may be by licence of such superintendent registrar after residence by one of the parties for fifteen days. All the preceding forms of authority, except the licence of the superintendent registrar, are available for marriage according to the Church of England. All marriages elsewhere must be by authority of either a certificate or licence of a superintendent registrar. Every form of authority is available as soon as it is completed, and for three months afterwards, but not later. Jews and Quakers are entitled to conduct their marriages, when authorised, as and when they think proper, but all other marriages, except by special licence, must be effected between eight in the morning and three in the afternoon, which option is now substituted for the former hours of from eight to twelve. Persons who are duly authorised to that effect are entitled to require the incumbent of the church named in the licence to perform or provide for the cere- mony, which may possibly be in five minutes after licence, or otherwise in reasonable time assented to by the clergyman, according to custom. The clergy- man is authorised and required to register the marriage immediately after the ceremony in a book supplied to the church by the authorities, and to procure the signature to the register of both parties to the marriage, and of two witnesses, who may be friends of the parties, or such total strangers as not to be able to identify the parties, the form of giving away the bride being in many cases a farce that is not creditable to any of the persons taking part in the ceremony.