1339 Old Fashioned Dinner Parties. water. Turnips or other edibles of the kind swimming about in a sea of dingy water are enough to cause the excellence of the cookery of the other viands to be put in the shade. Also, if assistance in dishing up be scarce in the kitchen, contrive to keep your meat hot by means—if you have not the proper ones, a meat-screen, &c.— such as your woman’s wit will suggest, rather than spoil your vegetables by dishing them up too soon, and thus rendering them lumpy, sodden and lukewarm. These should come to table with a fresh, crisp, eatable look upon them. With regard to rule number one, it will be well to remember that meats lose their flavour by delay on the table after being placed there in perfect readi- ness to be eaten. 3051. Dinner Parties.—Dinners a la Russe as they used to be called, are now so Anglicised and so common that we find them even in the houses of people of very moderate incomes, who hire a carver to do what is properly done by the butler. (Set forth in the “ Duties of the Butler,” will be found that of carving at dinner.) This is scarcely a plan to be commended, however, unless the party be very small, as not only a carver but extra waiting is needed where everything is handed. On the other hand, where there are plenty of servants there is no more pleasant form of dinner serving, allowing as it does for the table to be so decorated as to presen t an attractive picture during the meal. We give, later on, hints for table decoration at different seasons of the year, so that we need not enlarge upon the subject here, only saying that, where dinner is served entirely from thesideboard.it is absolutely necessary that the table be decorated in some manner. It is now more usual to set only one or two of the principal dishes on the table, such as the principal joints, or the poultry, and perhaps the fish. Entries, which precede the substantial joints, are handed round to each of the guests, who in this way are served more quickly, and with less trouble to both cooks and waiters. If the fish is Abetted or cut up, it is often handed in the same way, and seme people prefer to have the soup tureens set on the sideboard, and served to the guests from thence. In small households the joints and birds must be carved on table, in default of an experienced carver among the servants. Dressed vegetables are handed round after the joints. The principal puddings are often carved on table, and jellies or creams handed round after. Cheese is now seldom set on table, but a small plate or dish of cut cheese, garnished with parsley, and others of butter and of biscuits or pulled bread, are handed round together to each guest. 3052. Old-fashioned Dinner Parties.—There are some people who still prefer to have their dinner put upon the table, but even with these, as with our other two tables, the breakfast and the luncheon, the appearance the dinner-table will present depends, not upon crowding it with Ash, flesh, and fowl, but upon a carefully-arranged study of the whole. A cook is an artist, if she be a good one, and a good “ layer of cloths ” is an artist too, surely. It does not want a fabulous sum of money to give one’s guest a handsomely-arranged dinner table; what it does want are, much common sense, much method, and good taste in plenty. With these three to the fore, a dinner-giver on a large or small scale can seldom fail at her work. The only way to attain to perfection in this work is to let our ordinary family table arrangements differ very little—and that only in the really expensive items— from those of the guest-table. A dinner, then, to one’s friends, is not a very grave affair with uSj It is in reality but the adding of a few more knives, forks, spoons, serviettes, &c. It does not throw us into “a state,” for fear we shall make an error somewhere or somehow; nor does it worry our servants, and throw them off the usual equilibrium of work to a discomforting degree. The affair becomes a little increase of work, instead of fresh and sometimes appalling work