Recipes for Invalid Cookery. 1232 wine should be added, but merely sugar, and a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel. Cornflour is better boiled for a minute. It is as nourishing as arrowroot, but possibly not always so digestible. Time.—If obliged to be boiled, 2 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. per pint. Sufficient to make £ pint of arrowroot. Miss Nightingale says, in her “ Notes on Nursing,” that arrowroot is a grand dependence of the nurse. As a vehicle for wine, and as a restorative quickly prepared, it is all very well, but it is nothing but starch and water ; flour is both more nutritive and less liable to ferment, and is preferable wherever it can be used. 2773 -SIMPLE ARROWROOT JELLY. (For an Invalid.) Ingredients.—| tablespoonful of arrowroot, sugar, nutmeg; £ pint of water. Mode.—Put the water to boil in a saucepan, mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with cold water and then pour it into the saucepan; stir briskly for 5 minutes, add the sugar and nutmeg, and pour into a wet cup to serve when cold. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 2d. Sufficientto make £ pint of arrowroot. 2774. —BARLEY GRUEL. Ingredients.—2 oz. of Scotch or pearl barley, £ pint of port, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 quart and £ pint of water, sugar to taste. Mode.—After well washing the barley, boil it in half a pint of water for a quarter of an hour; then pour this water away; put to the barley the quart of fresh boiling water, and let it boil until the liquid is reduced to half; then strain it off. Add the wine, sugar and lemon-peel; simmer for 5 minutes and put it away in a clean jug. It can be warmed from time to time, as required. Time.—To be boiled until reduced to half. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient, with the wine, to make i£ pint of gruel. 2775. —BARLEY GRUEL. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—£ oz. of barley, £ pint of broth or beef-tea, seasoning to taste. Mode.—Wash the barley and stew it with the broth over a very slow fire for half to three-quarters of an hour, in an earthenware pan or jar. Strain and serve hot. The gruel should be thick. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, with beef-tea, 4d- Sufficient to make a cupful.