251 Salmon Cutlets. having seen them. A seasonable flDod, however, comes, and hurries them to the “ great deep; ” whence, about the middle of June, they commence their return to the river again. By this time they are twelve or sixteen inches long, and progressively increase, both in number and size, till about the end of July, when they have become large enough to be denominated grilse. Early in August they became fewer in numbers, but of greater size, having advanced to a weight of from six to nine pounds. This rapidity of growth appears surprising, and realises the remark of Walton, that “ the salmlet becomes a salmon in as short a time as a gosling becomes a goose ” Recent writers have, however, thrown considerable doubts upon this quick growth of the salmon. 532.—SALMON CUTLETS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Saumon en Papillote.) Cut the slices 1 inch thick, and season them with pepper and salt; butter a sheet of white paper, lay each slice on a separate piece, with their ends twisted; broil gently over a clear fire, and serve with anchovy or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, add a few chopped herbs and a little spice. Time.—5 to 10 minutes. 533.—SALMON WITH GENEVESE SAUCE. (Fr. Saumon Sauce G6n6v6se.) Ingredients.—2 slices of salmon, 2 chopped slialots, a little parsley, a small bunch of herbs, 2 bay-leaves, 2 carrots, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of Madeira, £ a pint of white stock, No. 278 ; thickening of butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, the juice of 1 lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Rub the bottom of a stewpan over with butter, and put in the shalots, herbs, bay-leaves, carrots, mace and seasoning; stir them for ro minutes over a clear fire, and add the Madeira or sherry ; simmer gently for half an hour, and strain through a sieve over the fish, which stew in this gravy. As soon as the fish is sufficiently cooked, take away all the liquor, except a little to keep the salmon moist, and put it into another stewpan ; add the stock, thicken with butter and flour, and put in the anchovies, lemon-juice, cayenne and salt; lay the salmon on a hot dish, pour over it part of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Time.—4 hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 6 persons. 534.-PICKLED SALMON. (Fr.—Saumon Marine.) Ingredients—Salmon, ^ oz. of whole pepper, 4 oz. of whole all-spice, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 bay-leaves, equal quantities of vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Mode.—After the fish comes from table, lay it in a clean dish with a