403 Marrow-Bones. 900.—DEVILLED LIVER. (Fr.—Foie a la Diable.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of liver (uncooked), £ lb. of uncooked salt pork, i pint of bread-crumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, i teaspoonful of Cayenne pepper, £ teaspoonful of mace and cloves. Mode.—Chop the liver and pork very fine ; add the other ingredients, mixing well; put in a covered mould, and set in a saucepan of cold water; cover the saucepan, and place on the fire to boil 2 hours. Take out the mould, uncover, and let it stand in an open oven to let the steam off. This is a cold dish. Time.—2^ hours. Average Cost, is. 10d. for this quantity. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 901.—ROASTED LIVER. (Fr.—Foie Roti.) Ingredients.—Take 4 lbs. of beef or calf’s liver, a teaspoonful of pepper, salt and cloves mixed, £ pint of cold water. Mode.—Lard the liver with salt pork. Sprinkle in the pan the spice and pepper ; place the liver in the pan, and sprinkle with another spoon- ful of the spices. Add half a pint of cold water; baste the liver well with flour and butter, till the gravy is rich enough, then baste with that. Bake it an hour or more; dish the liver; boil the gravy and turn over it. A glass of wine improves the gravy. Time.—hour. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable in winter. 902.—BOILED MARROW BONES. Ingredients.—Bones, a small piece of common paste, a flowered cloth. Mode.—Have the bones neatly sawed into convenient sizes, and cover the ends with a small piece of common crust, made with flour and water. Over this tie a floured cloth, and place them upright in a sauce- pan of boiling water, taking care there is sufficient to cover the bones. Boil them for 2 hours, remove the cloth and paste, and serve them up- right on a napkin with dry toast. Many persons clear the marrow from the bones after they are cooked, spread it over a slice of toast, and add a seasoning of pepper; when served in this manner, it must be very expe- ditiously sent to table, as it soon gets cold. '• Time.—2 hours. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Marrow-bones may be baked after preparing them as in the preceding recipe; they should be laid in a deep dish, and baked for 2 hours.