Time.—About 2 hours to soak the cake. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. g6i Tipsy Cake. 2052.—TO MAKE SYLLABUB. Ingredients.—I pint of sherry or white wine, £ grated nutmeg, sugar to taste, i£ pint of milk. Mode.—Put the wine into a bowl, with the grated nutmeg and plenty of pounded sugar and the above proportion of milk, frothed up. Clouted cream may be laid on the top, with pounded cinnamon or nutmeg and sugar; and a little brandy may be added to the wine before the milk is put in. In some counties, cider is substituted for the wine ; when this is used, brandy must always be added. Warm milk may be poured on from a spouted jug or teapot; but it must be held vcrv high. Average Cost, is. 4d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2053.—TIPSY CAKE. Ingredients.—1 moulded sponge or Savoy cake, sufficient sweet wine or sherry to soak it, 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 1 pint of rich custard. Mode.—Procure a cake that is 3 or 4 days old— either sponge, Savoy, or rice answering for the pur- pose of a tipsy cake. Cut the bottom of the cake level, to make it stand firm in the dish ; make a small hole in the centre, and pour in and over the cake suffi- cient sweet wine or sherry, mixed with the above pro- portion of brandy, to soak it nicely. When the cake is well soaked, blanch and cut the almonds into strips, stick them all over the cake, and pour round it a good custard, made by recipe No. 1969, allowing 8 eggs instead of 5 to the pint of milk. The cakes are sometimes crumbled and soaked and a whipped cream heaped over them, the same as for trifles. Sufficient for 1 dish. Almond.—The almond-tree is a native of warmer climates than Britain, and is indigenous to the northern parts of Africa and Asia; but it is now commonly cultivated in Italy, Spain and the south of France. It is not usually grown in Britain, and the fruit seldom ripens in this country ; it is much admired for the beauty of its b'ossoms. In the form of its leaves and blossoms, it strongly resembles the peach-tree, and is included in the same genus by botanists : but the fruit, instead of presenting a delicious pulp like the peach, shrivels up as it ripens, and becomes only a ti .ugh coriaceous covering to the stone enclosing the eatable kernel, which is surrounded by a thin bitter skin. It flowers early in the spring, and produces fruit in August. There are two sorts of almonds—sweet and bitter; but they are considered to be only varieties of the species ; and though the qualities of the kernels are very different, they are not distinguishable by t-heir appearance. 2054.—AN EASY WAY OF MAKING A TIPSY CAKE. Ingredients.—12 stale small sponge-cakes, raisin wine, £ lb. of) jam, 1 pint of custard, No. 1969. TIPSY CAKE.