gl6 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. 1954.-ISINGLASS JELLY. Ingredients.—1 oz. of Swinborne’s Patent Refined Isinglass, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 lemons, 2 eggs, £ pint of sherry, or other white wine, £ pint of cold water, 1 pint of boiling water. Mode.—Soak the isinglass for 10 minutes in half a pint of cold water, uuen add a pint of boiling water and proceed exactly as in the previous recipe. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 1 quart. Isinglass.—The best isinglass is brought from Russia; some of an inferior kind is brought from North and South America and the East Indies ; the several varieties may be had from the wholesale dealers in isinglass in London. In choosing isinglass for domestic use, select that which is whitest, has no unpleasant odour, and which dissolves most readily in water. The inferior kinds are used for fining beer, and similar purposes. Isinglass is much adulterated. To test its purity, take a few threads of the substance, drop some into boiling water, some into cold water, and some into vinegar. In the boiling water the isinglass will dissolve, in cold water it will become white and “ cloudy,” and in vinegar it will swell and become jelly-like. If the isin- glass is adulterated with gelatine (that is to say, the commoner sort of gelatine, for isinglass is classed amongst gelatines, of all which varieties it is the very purest and best), in boiling water the gelatine will not so completely dissolve as the isinglass ; in cold water it becomes clear and jelly-like, and in vinegar it will harden. 1955— grape jelly. Mode.—Make a jelly by the preceding recipe, pour a little in the mould, and when it has cooled lay in a bunch of grapes of a size suitable for the mould and fill up with jelly. Time.—£ an hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 1 quart. 1956— GOLDEN JELLY. Ingredients.—The same as No. 1954, gold leaf. Mode.—Pour in the mould sufficient jelly to give a coating, then scatter over tiny flecks of the gold leaf, let these settle, then pour in some more jelly, adding more gold leaf, till the mould is full. This must be done care- fully as the leaf rises to the top. Time.—i an hour. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for 1 quart. 1957.-HOW TO MOULD BOTTLED JELLIES. Mode.—Uncork the bottle ; place it in a saucepan of hot water until the jelly is reduced to a liquid state; taste it, to ascertain whether it is sufficiently flavoured, and if not, add a little wine. Pour the jelly into moulds which have been soaked in water; let it set, and turn it out by placing the mould in hot water for a minute; then wipe the outside, put a dish on the top, and turn it over quickly. The jelly should then slip easily away from the mould, and be quite firm. It may be garnished as taste dictates.