Nougat. 1071 2356.—FLAVOURED SUGAR. Sugar may be flavoured in a variety of ways, by first pounding it, adding the flavouring during the process, then sifting through a silk sieve, and putting by in a tin in a dry place. For 1 lb. of sugar, 2 oz. of either lemon or orange peel dried will be sufficient, and to the same quantity ©f sugar, flavours may be given by 1 oz. of ginger, 2 oz. of cinnamon, oz. of vanilla, or £ oz. of cloves. 2357— FONDANT ICING. This is made by boiling sugar as in recipe No. 2118, adding flavouring and colouring to correspond, then pouring it out upon a marble slab, and, when nearly cold, working it with a spatula till it is of a smooth paste. When wanted for use, melt the icing in a copper sugar boiler. Colouring for red fruit icing is given with cochineal; orange or lemon must have yellow vegetable colouring; Chartreuse icing may have a tinge of spinach green. 2358-GUM PASTE. Ingredients.—2 oz. of gum tragacanth, £ lb. of starch powder, 1 lb. of flour, J pint of water. Mode.—Dissolve the gum in the water, press it through a cloth on to a marble slab, and mix in by degrees the pounded sugar, working it to a smooth paste. Till wanted it should be kept in a basin covered with a wet cloth, when it must have equal quantities of starch and pounded sugar blended with it till it is sufficiently stiff. 2359.-MERINGUE PASTE. Ingredients.—12 eggs (whites only), 1 lb. of finely-pounded sugar, a pinch of salt, any colouring or flavouring. Mode.—Whip the whites thoroughly, adding the sugar slowly. This paste should be used directly it is mixed. 2360.-NOUGAT. Mode.—Almonds and other nuts for nougat should be blanched, drained and skinned some little time before they are chopped. The nougat is made by melting pounded sugar in a copper sugar boiler, putting a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice to each pound, then adding double the weight of sugar in almonds either coloured or white, filberts, or pistachios, and a little liqueur^. The almonds or nuts should be hot when put into the syrup. For lining moulds, small pieces of the nougat should be pressed in with a lemon till the mould is covered, when the nougat should be turned out. 2 S