^24 General Observations on Vegetables. microscope will discover the sap perspiring from the divided portion of the Steffl, and the colouring matter rising through real tubes to the top of the twig ; these are the sap or conducting vessels of the plant. If, however, we examine a trans- verse section of the vine, or of any other tree, at a later period of the season, we find that the wood is apparently dry, whilst the bark, particularly that part next the wood, is swelled with fluid. This is contained in vessels of a different kind from those in which the sap rises. They are found in the bark only in trees, and may be called returning vessels, from their carrying the sap downwards after its preparation in the leaf. It is believed that the passage of the sap in plants is conducted in a manner precisely similar to that of the blood in man, from the regular contraction and expansion of the vessels ; but, oil account of their extreme minuteness, it is almost an impossibility to be certain upon this point. Numerous observations made with the microscope show that their diameter seldom exceeds a 3000th part of an inch. Leuwenhoeck reckoned 20,000 vessels in a morsel of oak i-i9th of an inch large. 1513. In the Vascular System of a Plant we at once see the great analogy which it bears to the veins and arteries in the human system; but neither it, nor the cellular tissue combined, is all that is required to perfect the production of a vegetable. There is, besides, a tracheal system, which is com posed of very minute elastic spiral tubes, designed for the purpose of conveying air both to and from the plant. There are also fibres, which consist of collections of these cells and vessels closely united together. These form the root and the stem. If we attempt to cut them transversely, we meet with difficulty, because we have to force our way across the tubes, and break them ; but if we slit the wood lengthwise, the vessels are separated without breaking. The layers of wood, which appear in the stem or branch of a tree cut transversely, consist of different zones of fibres, each the produce of one year's growth, and separated by a coat of cellular tissue, without which they could not be well distinguished. Besides all these, there is the cuticle, which extends over every part of the plant, and covers the bark with three distinct coats. 1514. The Hoot and the Stem finally Demand Notice.— The root is designed, not only to support the plant by fixing it in the soil, but also to fulfil the functions of a channel for the conveyance of nourishment; it is therefore furnished with pores, or spongioles, as they are called, from their resemblance to a sponge, to suck up whatever comes within its reach. It is found in a variety of forms, and hence its adaptation to a great diversity of soils and circumstances. We have heard of a willow-tree being dug up and its head planted where its roots where, and these suffered to spread out in the air like naked branches. In course of time, the roots became branches, and the branches roots, or rather roots rose from the branches beneath the ground, and branches shot from the roots above. Some roots last one year, others two, and others, like the shrubs and trees which they produce, have an indefinite period of exis- tence; but they all consist of a collection of fibres, composed of vascular and cellular tissues, without tracheae, or breathing-vessels. The stem is the grand distributor of the nourishment taken up by the roots to the several parts of the plant. The seat of its vitality is in the point or spot called the neck, which separates the stem from the root. If the root of a young plant be cut off, it will shoot afresh ; if the stem be taken away, it will be renewed; but if the neck part be injured, the plant will surely die. 1515. Vegetables.—We will here take vegetable in its usual acceptation and not in its literal meaning. We have already spoken of vegetable food in contradistinction to animal; we want now more especially to consider those