a very light description and might be served as early as 5 to 6 o’clock- Family Teas. I441 needed At the usual high tea there are probably to be found one or two small hot dishes, cold chickens, or game, tongue or ham, salad, cakes of various kinds, sometimes cold fruit tarts, with cream or custard, and fresh fruit. Any supper dish, however, can be introduced, and much more elaborate meals be served, while the tea and coffee are relegated to the sideboard and wine only, in the way of drink put upon the table. In summer it is not unusual to have every- thing cold at a high tea. We are indebted to Messrs. Oetzman and Co., London, for the illustrations of the tea-tables on page 1440. These are now so generally in use that they scarcely need comment, but it may be remarked that the bamboo ones with the five trays in addition to the table itself, such as those we illustrate, are most con- venient, as there is so much room for cups and saucers. They not only serve for the afternoon tea, but are most useful at a high tea, where the tea equipage is so ;often absent from the table. One of these pretty little tables placed at the right hand of the lady of the house, would enable her to dispsase the tea without leaving her place at the head of the table. The patent ewers illustrated upon pages 1480 and 1481 are also specialties of Messrs. Oetzman. 3201. Family teas most often consist of cake, preserve, sardines, potted meats, buttered toast, tea cakes and fruit, in addition to the tea, coffee, and bread and butter. Watercress and radishes are nice accompaniments in summer, and these eminently feminine meals may be very pleasant ones, from which the young folks are never excluded by reason of age, as they would be at a late dinner. The hours for family teas may vary in many households, but are generally governed by the time of the dinner that has preceded them, and the kind of supper partaken of afterwards. Where this is of a very light character, such as a glass of wine and a slice of cake, or the more homely glass of beer and bread and cheese, a 6 to 7 o’clock tea would not be late, and a few little savouries or eggs would be needed in addition to the bread and butter and cake so generally found ; but where a substantial supper is to follow the tea the latter would be of