Utensils for Bread-Making. 1087 dough very hard, and letting it become quite cold, particularly in winter. It either the sponge or the dough be permitted to overwork itself, that is to say, if the mixing and kneading be neglected when it has reached the proper point for either, sour bread will probably be the consequence in warm weather, and bad bread in any. The goodness will also be endangered by placing it so near a fire as to make any part of it hot, instead of maintaining the gentle and equal degree of heat required for its due fermentation. Skim milk or butter, if fresh and good, will materially improve its quality. 2399. The utensils required for making bread, on a moderate scale, are a kneading-trough or pan, sufficiently large that the dough may be kneaded freely without throwing the flour over the edges, and also to allow for its rising; a hair-sieve for straining yeast, and one or two strong spoons. Yeast must always be good of its kind, and in a fitting state to produce ready and proper fermentation ; and the fresher the yeast, the smaller the quantity will be required to raise the dough. 2400. The Oven.—As a general rule, the oven for baking bread should be rather quick, and the heat so regulated as to penetrate the dough without harden- ing the outside. The oven-door should not be opened after the bread is put in until the dough is set, or has become firm, as the cool air admitted will have an unfavourable effect on it. Brick ovens are generally considered the best adapted for baking bread; these should be heated with wood faggots, and then swept and mopped out, to cleanse them for the reception of the bread. Iron ovens are more difficult to manage, being apt to burn the surface of the bread before the middle is baked. To remedy this, a few clean bricks should be set at the bottom of the oven, close together, to receive the tins of bread. In good stoves the ovens bake admirably; and they can always be brought to the required temperature, when it is higher than is needed, by leaving the door c.i ventilator open for a time. To keep bread sweet and fresh, as soon as it is cold it should be put into a clean earthen pan, with a cover to it; this pan should be placed at a little dis- tance from the ground, to allow a current of air to pass underneath. Some persons prefer keeping bread on clean wooden shelves, without being covered, that the crust may not soften. Stale bread may be freshened by warming it through in a gentle oven. Stale pastry, cakes, &c., may also be improved by this method, but they soon go back to their former condition. A FEW HINTS RESPECTING- THE MAKING AND BAKING OF CAKES. 2401. Ingredients for Cakes.—Eggs should always be broken into a cup, the whites and yolks separated, and they should always be strained. Break- ing the eggs thus, the bad ones may be easily rejected without spoiling the others and so cause no waste. If eggs are used instead of yeast, they should be very thoroughly whisked ; they are generally sufficiently beaten when thick enough to carry the drop that falls from the whisk. It is generally better to beat the white and yolk separately, adding the white the very last thing. Loaf sugar should be well pounded, and then sifted through a fine sieve. Currants should be nicely washed, picked, dried in a cloth, and then carefully examined, that no pieces of grit or stone may be left amongst them. They should then be thoroughly dried and put away, as, if added damp or hot to the other ingredients, cakes will be liable to be heavy. Good butter should always be used in the manufacture of cakes; and ir beaten to a cream, it saves much time and labour to warm, but not melt, it before baking. Good dripping or lard can be used for plain cakes