Meringues. 939 2008. — MACARONI AND PINE-APPLE. Ingredients.—I pint of clear jelly, £a tin of preserved pine-apple, \ lb. of loaf sugar, 6 oz. of macaroni, £ pint of custard, No. 1969, milk, cochineal. Mode.—Wet a border mould and pour in sufficient jelly to coat it. In this lay the pine cut in dice, after draining it from the syrup, colour the remainder of the jelly with a few drops of cochineal and fill up the mould. Boil the macaroni in milk till tender, and sweeten it with the sugar. When the jelly is set and the macaroni cold, turn the former out and fill with the latter ; pour over the custard made by recipe No. 1969 and serve Average Cost, zs. 31i. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2009. —MERINGUES. (Fr —M6ringues.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of pounded sugar, the whites of 4 eggs. Mode.—Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and, with a wooden spoon, stir in quickly the pounded sugar; and have some boards put in the oven thick enough to prevent the bottom of the meringues from acquiring too much colour. Cut some strips of paper about 2 inches wide; place this paper on the board, and drop a tablespoonful at a time of the mixture on the paper, taking care to let all the meringues be the same size. In dropping it from the spoon, give the mixture the form of an egg and keep the meringues about two inches apart from each other on the paper. Strew over them some sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an- hour. As soon as they begin to colour, remove them from the oven; take each slip of paper by the two ends, and turn it gently on the table, and with a small spoon, take out the soft part of each meringue. Spread some clean paper on the board, turn the meringues upside down, and put them into the oven to harden and brown on the other side. When required for table, fill them with whipped cream, flavoured with liqueur or vanilla, and sweetened with pounded sugar. Join two of the meringues together, and pile them high in the dish, as shown in the annexed drawing. To vary their appearance, finely chopped almonde or currants may be strewn over them before the sugar is sprinkled over; and they may be garnished with any bright-coloured preserve. Great expe- dition is necessary in making this sweet dish ; as, if the meringues are not put into the oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are mixed, the former melts, and the mixture would run on the paper, instead of keeping its egg-