Recipes for Cooking Veal. 444 Seasonable from March to October. into a stewpan, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and when it boils, add a little salt; take off every particle of scum as it rises, and boil the head until perfectly tender. Boil the brains, chop them, and mix with them melted butter, minced parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice in the above proportion. Take up the head, skin the tongue, and put it on a small dish with the brains round it. Have ready some parsley and butter, smother the head with it, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Bacon, ham, pickled pork, or a pig’s cheek are indispensable with calf’s head. The brains are sometimes chopped with hard-boiled eggs, and mixed with a little bechamel, No. 665. Time.—From i£ to 2\ hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from Marcn lo October. Note.—The liquor in which the head was boiled should be saved; it makes excellent soup, and will be found a nice addition to gravies, &c. Half a calf's head is as frequently served as a whole one, it being a more convenient-sized joint for a small family. It is cooked in the same manner, and served with the same sauces, as in the preceding recipe. 988.—HASHED CALF’S HEAD. (1Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of a cold boiled calf s head, 1 quart of the liquor in which it was boiled, a faggot of savoury herbs, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a strip of lemon-peel, 2 blades of pounded mace, salt and white pepper to taste, a very little cayenne, rather more than 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, force- meat balls. Mode.—Cut the meat into neat slices, and put the bones and trimmings mto a stewpan with the above proportion of liquor that the head was boiled in. Add a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a strip of lemon-peel, and 2 blades of pounded mace, and let these boil for 1 hour, or until the gravy is reduced nearly half. Strain it into a clean stewpan, thicken it with a little butter and flour, and add a flavouring of sherry, lemon-juice and ketchup, in the above proportion ; season with pepper, salt and a little cayenne : put in the meat, let it gradually warm through, but not boil more than two or three minutes. Garnish the dish with force- -meat balls and pieces of bacon rolled and toasted, placed alternately, and send it to table very hot. Time.—Altogether 1^ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the remains of the head, 8d.