ioo8 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. the rinds as finely as possible, and add to the juice and pulp, having care- fully removed every pip. Make a syrup of sugar and water in the above proportions by placing the sugar and water in a pan over-night, and in the morning boiling it until of the consistency of oil; let it cool, add the orange-pulp and rind, and slowly boil for half an hour after coming to the boiling-point. Time.—^ hour to boil the syrup; £ hour to boil the marmalade. Average Cost, 7d. per lb. pot. Seasonable in March or April. 2180-ORANGE MARMALADE MADE WITH HONEY. Ingredients.—To I quart of the juice and pulp of Seville oranges allow 2 lbs. of honey, 1 lb. of the rind. Mode.—Peel the oranges and boil the rind in water until tender, and cut it into strips. Take away the pips from the juice and pulp, and put it, with the honey and chips, into a preserving-pan ; boil all together for about half an hour, or until the marmalade is of the proper consistency; put it into pots and, when cold, cover down with bladders. Time.—2 hours to boil the rind, £ hour the marmalade. Average Cost, from 9d. tom/, per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in March or April. 2181.—TO PRESERVE ORANGES. Ingredients.—Oranges; to every lb. of juice and pulp allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar ; to every pint of water £ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Wholly grate or peel the oranges, taking off only the thin out- side portion of the rind. Make a small incision where the stalk is taken out, squeeze out as much of the juice as can be obtained, and preserve it in a basin with the pulp that accompanies it. Put the oranges into cold water; let them stand for 3 days, changing the water twice ; then boil them in fresh water till they are very tender, and put them to drain. Make a syrup with the above proportion of sugar and water, sufficient to cover the oranges; let them stand in it for 2 or 3 days; then drain them well. Weigh the juice and pulp, allow double their weight of sugar, and boil them together until the scum ceases to rise, which must all be carefully removed ; putin the oranges, boil them for 10 minutes, place them in jars, pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down. They will be fit for use in a week. Time.—3 days for the oranges to remain in water, 3 days in the syrup ; | hour to boil the pulp, 10 minutes the oranges. Seasonable.—This preserve should be made in February or March, when oranges are plentiful.