Lemon Cheese-Cakes. 847 Seasonable at any time. 1791-LEMON CHEESE-CAKE THAT WILL KEEP. Ingredients.—6 lemons, 6 eggs, i lb. of lump sugar, 6 oz. of butter. Mode.—Grate 4 lemons, add the juice of 6, the yolks of 6 eggs and whites of 2; mix thoroughly, and put all in a jug; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water; stir one way, until the mixture is a nice thick paste. When quite cold, cover closely ; it will keep good for a fortnight. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 15. 9d. Sufficient for 24 cheese-cakes. Seasonable at any time. 1792.—FRENCH HONEY. Ingredients.—Take 1 pound of loaf sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites of 4, the juice of 4 lemons, the grated rind of 2 lemons, and 3 oz. of butter. Mode.—Stir this mixture over a slow fire till it becomes thick like honey. It will keep good a year in a cool place, and is very nice for tarts. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Seasonable at any time. 1793- -KAISER PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of almonds, I orange, 6 eggs, 1 pint of cream, grated lemon peel, sliced candied peel, sugar to taste. Mode.—Pound the almonds in a mortar, squeezing the orange-juice on them during the process. Beat the egg yolks, and stir in gently the lemon rind and the cream ; last add the well-whisked whites of eggs. Butter or oil a mould, stick thin slices of candied peel and blanched almonds over it, pour in the above mixture, and steam it for hour. Time.—14 hour. Average Cost, zs.od. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1794— LEMON TARTLETS. Ingredients.—4 lb. of butter, 4 lb. of powdered loaf-sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, 1 lemon. Mode.—Squeeze the juice of a lemon and grate the rind. First mix the sugar with the butter, then the yolks of the eggs, then the lemon rind and juice ; mix it well together. Let it stand for a day or two ; it is then ready for use. Line some patty-tins with pastry, and put a little in each, bake in a quick oven ; keep turning them, as they so soon burn. Time.—2 days. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 12 tarts.