The Mistress, i8 44. Furnishiny (i House is a matter upon which so much could be said that it would be impossible to give in this chapter much advice to the mistress of a household who has to undertake that duty. A very great deal depends upon the house itself; but there are certain things, and very many things, of actual necessity in every house, and we would advise that if there is to be a limit to the expenditure in this respect, that all these necessaries should first be bought, and then, if there should not be enough left for all that was desired, that she should get these by degrees, keeping a good look out for pretty things which can often be bought far cheaper here and there than by ordering them all of one up- holsterer. One great advantage of this plan is that one often lights upon some- thing far prettier and more suitable than we had thought of before, while there is a great charm in adding constantly to the beauty or convenience of our rooms which we lose if we put in all they will hold at once. It is now usual for the landlord of a house to allow the incoming tenant to choose the wall papers, and we would advise the mistress not to mind taking some little trouble in this respect. To think well whether the rooms require light or dark papers, accord- ing to their height, aspect, &c. ; also that they should harmonise with the furniture and carpets with which they are to be associated. Note.—Many mistresses have experienced the horrors of house-hunting, and it is well known that “three removes are as good (or bad, rather) as a fire.’’ Nevertheless, it being quite evident that we must, in these days at least, live in houses, and are sometimes obliged to change our residence it is well to consider some of the conditions which will add to, or diminish the con- venience and comfort of our homes. Although the choice of a house must be dependent on so many different circumstances with different people, that to give any specific directions on this head would be impossible and use- less; yet it will be advantageous, perhaps, to many, if we point out some of those general features as to locality, soil, aspect, &c., to which the attention of all house-takers should be carefully directed. Regarding the locality, we may say, speaking more particularly of a town house, that it is very important to the health and comfort of a family that the neighbourhood of all factories of any kind, producing unwholesome effluvia or smells, should be strictly avoided. Neither is it well to take a house in the immediate vicinity of wiierc a noisy trade is carried on, as it is unpleasant to the feelings, and tends to increase any existing irritation of the system. In taking a house on lease, it is well to have a surveyor to inspect the state of the building— roof, gutters, drainage, &c. Do not rely upon the statements of an agent, or anyone interested in letting it. Where circumstances permit, it is well to stay for some time in the neighbourhood, to ascertain if it suits your health and tastes. Referring to soils: it is held as a rule, that a gravel soil is superior to any other, as the rain drains through it very quickly, and it is consequently drier and less damp than clay, upon which water rests a far longer time. A clay country, too, is not so pleasant for walking exercise as one in which gravel predominates. The aspect of the house should be well considered, and it should be borne in mind that the more sunlight that comes into the house, the healthier is the habitation. The close, fetid smell which assails one on entering a narrow court or street in towns is to be assigned to the want of light and air. A house with a south or south-west aspect is lighter, warmer, drier, and conse- quently more healthy, than one faring the north or north-east. Great advances have been made, during the last few years, in the principles of sanitary know- ledge, and one most essential point to be observed in reference to a house is its drainage, as it has been proved in an endless number of cases that bad or defective drainage is as certain to destroy health as the taking of poisons. This arises from its injuriously affecting the atmosphere, thus rendering the air we breathe uuwholesorne and deleterious. Let it be borne in mind, then, that unless a house is effectually drained, lhe health of its inhabitants is sure to suffer ; and they will be susceptible to ague, rheumatism, diarrhoea, fevers, and cholera. We now come to an all-important point—that of the water supply. The value of this necessary article has also been lately'more and more recognized in connection with the question of health and life; and most houses are well supplied with every convenience connected with water. Let it, however, be well understood that no house, however suitable in other respects, can be de- sirable if this grand means of health and comfort is in the slightest degree scarce or impure. No caution can be too great to see that it is pure and good, as well as plentiful; for, knowing as we do that not a single part of our daily food is prepared without it, the importance of its influence on the health of the inmates of a house cannot be overrated. Filters can now be fixed in the cistern itself, so that nothing but filtered water can be used. Ventilation is another feature which must not be overlooked. In a general way, some air is admitted by the cracks round the doors and windows; but if there is not enough the chimney