418 Recipes for Cooking Beef. one boil, pour some of it over the meat, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Time.—Rather more than 3 hours. Average Cost, 4 per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 4 Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remainder of the liquor in which the beef was boiled may be served as a soup, or it may be sent to table with the meat in a tureen 934.—STEWED RUMP OF BEEF. (Fr.—Culotte de Boeuf a la Sauce Piq-uante.) Ingredients.—£ rump of beef, sufficient stock to cover it (No. 273), 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1 large bunch of savoury herbs, 2 onions, 12 cloves, pepper and salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour, 1 glass of port. Mode.—Cut out the bone, sprinkle the meat with a little cayenne (this must be sparingly used), and bind and tie it firmly up with tape; put it into a stewpan with sufficient stock to cover it, and add vinegar, ketchup, herbs, onions, cloves, and seasoning in the above proportion, and simmer very gently for 4 or 5 hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender, which may be ascertained by piercing it with a thin skewer. When done, remove the tape, lay it into a deep dish, which keep hot; strain and skim the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, add a glass of port wine and any flavouring to make the gravy rich and palatable ; let it boil up, pour over the meat, and serve. This dish may be very much enriched by garnishing with forcemeat balls, or filling up the space whence the bone is taken with a good forcemeat; sliced carrots, turnips, and onions boiled with the meat are also a great improvement, and, where expense is not objected to, it may be glazed. This, however, is not necessary where a good gravy is poured round and over the meat. Time.—\ rump stewed gently from 4 to 5 hours. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—A stock or gravy in which to boil the meat may be made of the bone and trimmings by boiling them with water, and adding carrots, onions, turnips, and a bunch of sweet herbs. To make this dish richer and more savoury, half- roast the rump, and afterwards stew it in strong stock and a little Madeira. This is an expensive method, and is not, after all, much better than a plainer- dressed joint. The Baron of Beef.—This noble joint, which consisted of two sirloins not cut asunder, was a' favourite dish of our ancestors. It is rarely seen now-a-days; indeed, it seems out of place on a modern table, as it requires the grim boar’s head and Christmas pie as supporters. When a lord’s son came of age, in the olden time, the baron of beef was t-oo small a joint, by many degrees, to satisfy the retainers who would flock to the hall; a whole ox was therefore generally roasted over a tire built up of huge logs. We may here mention that an ox was roasted entire oa the frozen Thames, in the early part of the present century.