466 Recipes for Cooking Veah Time.—To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 minutes, to be fried about 10 minutes. Average Cost, 3S. to 4s., according to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable.—In full season from May to August. Note.—The egg and bread-crumbs may be omitted, and the slices of sweet- bread dredged with a little flour instead, and a good gravy may be substituted for the maitre d’hotel sauce. This is a very simple method of dressing them. 1030. -STEWED SWEETBREADS. (Fr.—Ris de Veau a la Creme.) Ingredients.—3 sweetbreads, 1 pint of white stock, No. 278, thicken- ing of butter and flour, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 blade of pounded mace, white pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in warm water for one hour, and boil them for ten minutes; take them out, put them into cold water for a few minutes; lay them in a stewpan with the stock, and simmer them gently for rather more than half an hour. Dish them ; thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour; let it boil up, add the remaining ingre- dients, allow the sauce to get quite hot, but not boil, and pour it over the sweetbreads. Time.—To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 minutes, stewed rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, from 3s. to 4s., according to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable.—In full season from May to August. Note.—A few mushrooms added to this dish, and stewed with the sweet- breads, will be found an improvement. Season and Choice of Veal.—Veal, like all other meats, has its season of plenty. The best veal, and the largest supply, are to be had from March to the end of July. It comes principally from the western counties, and is generally of the Alderney breed. In purchasing veal, its whiteness and fineness of grain should be considered, the colour being especially of the utmost consequence. Veal may be bought at all times of the year, and of excellent quality, but is generally very dear, except in the months of plenty. 1031. —STEWED VEAL TENDONS. (Fr.—Tendrons de Veau aux Champignons, etc.) Ingredients.—The gristles from 2 breasts of veal, stock No. 278, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, 4 cloves, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a strip of lemon-peel. Mode.—The tendrons, or gristles, which are found round the front of a breast of veal, are now very frequently served as an entr6e, and when well dressed, make a nice and favourite dish. Detach the gristles