274 Recipes for Cooking Fish, Mode.—Clean and bone the tench, skin and bone the eels, and cut them into pieces 2 inches long, but leave the sides of the tench whole. Put the bones into a stewpan with the onions, herbs, mace, anchovies, water and seasoning, and let them simmer gently for x hour. Strain it off, put it to cool, and skim off all the fat. Lay the tench and eels in a pie-dish, and between each layer put seasoning, chopped parsley, and hard-boiled eggs; pour in part of the strained liquor, cover in with puff paste, and bake for half an hour or rather more. The oven should be rather quick, and when done, heat the remainder of the liquor, which pour into the pie. Time.—£ hour to bake, or rather more if the oven is slow. Average Cost, 4s. Sufficient for 10 persons. 585.—FISH SCALLOP. (Fr.—Escalopes de Poisson au Gratin.) Ingredients.—Remains of cold fish of any sort, | pint of cream, £ tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, £ teaspoonful of made mustard, ditto of walnut ketchup, pepper and salt to taste {the above quantities are for ^ lb. of fish when picked); browned bread crumbs. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, carefully picking the fish from the bones; set it on the fire, let it remain till nearly hot; occa- sionally stir the contents, but do not allow it to boil. When done, put the fish into a deep dish or scallop-shells, with a good quantity of bread- crumbs ; place small pieces of butter on the top, set in a Dutch oven before the fire to brown, or use a salamander. Time.—I hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fish, is. 586.—FISH SCALLOP. (Fr.—Escalopes de Poisson au Gratin.) (A nother Mode.) Ingredients.—Any cold fish, 1 egg, milk, 1 large blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, pepper and salt to taste, bread-crumbs, butter. Mode—Pick the fish carefully from the bones, and moisten with milk and the egg; add the other ingredients, and place in a deep dish or scallop-shells; cover with browned bread-crumbs, butter the top, and brown before the fire ; when quite hot, serve. Time.— 20 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fish, 4d.