Pish Soups. *93 anchovies; when well beaten, add a pint of stock, and simmer for $ of an hour. Strain it through a hair sieve, put the remainder of the stock to it, with the crumb of the roll; give it one boil, and rub it through a tammy, with the lobster spawn. Put in the fish, but do not let the soup boil after it has been rubbed through the tammy. If necessary, add seasoning. Time.—1| hour. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. or is. 9d. per quart. Seasonable from January to July. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Crayfish.—This is one of those fishes that were highly esteemed by the ancients. The Greeks preferred it when brought from Alexandria, and the Romans eat it boiled with cumin, and seasoned with pepper and other condiments. A recipe tells us that crayfish can be preserved several days in baskets with fresh grass or plants, such as the nettle, or in a bucket with about three-eights of an inch of water. More water would kill tnem, because the. large quantity of air they require necessitates the water in which they are kept to be continually renewed. 395.—EEL SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe aux Anguilles.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of eels, I onion, 2 oz. of butter, 3 blades of mace, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, ^ oz. of peppercorns, salt to taste, 2 tablespoon- fuls of flour, £ pint of cream, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Wash the eels, cut them into thin slices, and put them in the stewpan with the butter; let them simmer for a few minutes, then pour the water to them, and add the onion cut in thin slices, the herbs, mace, and seasoning. Simmer till the eels are tender, but do not break the fish. Take them out carefully, mix the flour smoothly to a batter with the cream, bring it to a boil, pour over the eels, and serve. Time.—1 hour, or rather more. Average Cost, 10d. per quart. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup may be flavoured differently by omitting the cream, and adding a little ketchup or Harvey's sauce. 396.—LOBSTER SOUP. (Fr.—Bisque d’Homard.) Ingredients.—3 large lobsters, or 6 small ones; the crumb of a French roll, 2 anchovies, 1 onion, 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, 1 strip of lemon peel, 2 oz. of butter, a little nutmeg, 1 teaspoouful of flour, 1 pint of cream, 1 pint of milk, forcemeat balls, mace, salt and pepper to taste, bread-crumbs, 1 egg, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Pick the meat from the lobsters, and beat the fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar, previously taking away the brown fin and the H