Treatment of Pigeons. 625 birds, but by a continuous draught, like quadrupeds. The wild pigeon, or stockdove, is the parent whence all the varieties of the domestic pigeon are derived. In the wild state it is still found in many parts of this island, making its nests in the holes of rocks, in the hollows of trees, or in old towers, but never, like the ring-dove, on branches. The blue house-pigeon is the variety principally reared for the table in this country, and is produced from our farm-yards in great numbers. Their flesh is accounted savoury, delicate and stimulating, and the dark-coloured birds are considered to have the highest flavour, whilst the light are esteemed to have the more delicate flesh. The Pigeon-house, or Dovecot.—The first thing to be done towards keeping pigeons is to pro- vide a commodious place for their reception ; and the next is to provide the pigeons themselves. The situation or size of the dovecot will necessarily depend on convenience ; but there is one point which must invariably be observed, and that is, that every pair of pigeons has two holes, or rooms, to nest in. This is indispensable, as without it, there will be no security, but the con- stant prospect of confusion, breaking of eggs, and the destruction of young. The proper place for the pigeon-house is the poultry-yard ; but it does very well near dwellings, stables, brewhouses, bakehouses, or such offices. Some persons keep pigeons in rooms, and have them making their nests on the floor. The object is to escape the danger of the young falling out; but in such cases, there is a great risk of rats and vermin getting at the pigeons. Aspect of the Pigeon-house.—The front of the pigeon-house should have a south-west aspect, and, if a room be selected ior the purpose, it is usual to break a hole in the roof of the building for the passage of the pigeons, but which can be closed at convenience. A platform ought to be laid at the entrance for the pigeons to perch upon, with some kind of defence against strange cats, which will frequently depopulate a whole dovecot. Yet, although cats are dangerous neighbours for the birds, they are necessary to defend them from the approach of rats and mice, which will not only suck the eggs, but destroy the birds. The platform should be painted white, and renewed as the paint wears off, white being a favourite colour with pigeons, and also most conspicuous as a mark to enable them to find their house. The boxes ought also to be similarly painted, and renewed when necessary, for which purpose lime and water will do very well. The Necessity of Cleanliness.—As cleanliness in human habitations is of the first importance, so it is in the pigeon-house. There the want of it will soon render the place a nuisance not to be approached, and the birds, both young and old, will be so covered with vermin and filth, that they will neither enjoy health nor comfort, whilst early mortality amongst them will be almost certain. In some cases, the pigeon-house is cleaned daily ; but it should always be done, at any rate, once a week, and the floor covered with sifted gravel, frequently renewed. Pigeons being extremely fond of water, and having a prescience of the coming of rain, they may be seen upon the house- tops, waiting upon it until late in the evening, and then spreading their wings to receive the luxury of the refreshing shower. When they are confined in a room, therefore, they should be allowed a wide pan of water, to be often renewed. This serves them for a bath, which cools, refreshes, and assists them to keep their bodies clear of vermin. Breeding Pigeons.—In breeding pigeons, it is necessary to match a cock and hen, and shut them up together, or place them near to each other, and in the course of a day or two there is little doubt of their mating. Various rules have been laid down for the purpose of assisting to dis- tinguish the cock from the hen pigeon: but the masculine forwardness and action of the cock is generally so remarkable, that he is easily ascertained. The pigeon being monogamous the male attaches and confines himself to one female, and the attachment is reciprocal, and the fidelity of the dove to its mate is proverbial. Under the age of six months, young pigeons are termed squeakers, and then begin to breed when properly managed. Their courtship and the well-known tone of voice in the cock, just when acquired and commencing, are indications of their approaching union. Nestlings, while fed by cock and hen, are termed squabs, and are, at that age sold and used for the table; their flesh is far more delicate than that of older birds. The dove- house pigeon is said to breed monthly, when well supplied with food. At all events, it may be depended on, that pigeons of almost any healthy and well-established variety will breed eight or ten times in the year; whence it may readily be conceived how vast are the numbers that may be raised. The Carrier Pigeon.—Without doubt the carrier is en- titled to rank first in the pigeon family with the exception, perhaps, of the blue-rock pigeons. No domestic fowl can be traced to so remote an antiquity. When Greece was in its glory, carrier pigeons were used to convey to distant parts the names of the victors at the Olympian games. During the holy war, when Acre was besieged by King Richard, Saladin habitually corresponded with the besieged by means of carrier pigeons. A shaft from an English crossbow, however, happened to bring one of these feathered messengers to the ground, and the stratagem was discovered, the design of the Sara- cens revealed, and so turned against the designers, that Acre was in the bands of the Christians before the wily Saladin deamt of defeat.