935 Lemon Cream. Seasonable at any time. the milk into a saucepan with the ground rice, fresh butter, lemon-rind, and 3 oz. of the sugar, and let these ingredients boil until the mixture is stiff, stirring them continually; when done, pour it into the bowl where the custard is, mixing both well together. Put the gelatine with the rest of the milk into a saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the fire to gently simmer for a minute or two, stir carefully into the basin, adding 3 oz. more of pounded sugar. When cold, stir in the lemon-juice, which should be carefully strained, and pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, leaving out the lemon-peel, and set the mould in a pan of cold water until wanted for table. Use eggs that have rich-looking yolks, and should the weather be very warm, rather a larger proportion of gelatine must be allowed. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient to fill 2 small moulds. Seasonable at any time. BLANCMANGE MOULD. 2000.—LEMON CREAM. (Fr— Cr6me au Citron.) Ingredients.—I pint of milk, I pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs, £ lb. of white sugar, 1 large lemon, 1 oz. of isinglass or gelatine. Mode.—-Put the cream into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, lemon- peel and isinglass, and simmer these over a gentle fire for about 10 minutes, 6tiniug them all the time. Strain the milk into a jug, add the yolks of eggs, which should be well beaten, and put the jug into a saucepan of boiling water ; stir the mixture one way until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; take it off the fire, and keep stirring it until nearly cold. Strain the lemon-juice into a basin, gradually pour on it the cream, whipped to a froth, and the custard, and stir it well until the juice is well mixed with it. Have ready a well-oiled mould, lemon-cream mould. pour the cream into it, and let it remain until perfectly set. When required for table, loosen the edges with a small, blunt knife, put a dish on the top of the mould, turn it over quickly, and the cream should easily slip away. Time.—10 minutes to boil the cream ; about 10 minutes to stir it over the fire in the jug. Average Cost, is. gd. Sufficient to fill i^-pint mould.