Poached Eggs. 1177 POACHED EGGS ON TOAST- 2625.—PLOVERS’ EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs de Pluvier.) Plovers’ eggs are usually served boiled hard, and sent to table in a napkin, either hot or cold. They may also be shelled, and served the same as eggs a la Tripe, with a good Bechamel sauce, or brown gravy, poured over them. They are also used for decorating salads, the beautiful colour of the white being generally so much admired. 2626.—POACHED EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs en Chemise : CEufs Poches.) Ingredients.—Eggs, water. To every pint of water allow 1 table- spoonful of vinegar. Mode.—Eggs for poaching should be perfectly fresh, but not quite new-laid; those that are about 36 hours old are the best for the purpose If quite new-laid, the white is so milky it is almost impossible to set it; and, on the other hand, if the egg be at all stale, it is equally difficult to poach it nicely. Strain some boiling water into a deep, clean frying-pan; break the egg into a cup, without damaging the yolk, and when the water boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and gently slip the egg into it. Place the pan over a gentle fire, and keep the water very gently simmering until the white looks nicely set. when the egg is ready. Take it up gently with a slice, cut away th ragged edges of the white, and serve either on toasted bread or on slices of ham or bacon, or on spinach, &c. A poached egg should not be over- done, as its appearance and taste will be quite spoiled if the yolk be allowed to harden. When the egg is slipped into the water, the white should be gathered together, to keep it a little in form, or the cup should be turned over it for half a minute. To poach an egg to perfection is rather a difficult operation ; so, for inexperienced cooks, a tin egg-poacher may be purchased, which greatly facilitates this manner of dressing eggs. Our illustration clearly shows what it is ; it consists oi a tin plate with a handle, with a space for three perforated cups. An egg should be broken into each cup, and the machine then placed in a stewpan of boiling water, which has been previously strained. When the whites of the eggs appear set, they are done, and should then be carefully slipped on to the toast or spinach, or with whatever they are served. In poaching eggs in a frying- pan, never do more than four at a time; and, when a little vinegar is liked mixed with the water in which the eggs are done, use the above pro portion. TIN EGG-POACHER.