Stewed Ox-cheek. 405 905.—MIROTON OF BEEF. (Fr.— Mifotort de Boeuf.i Ingredients.—A few slices of cold roast beef, 3 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 3 onions, £ pint of gravy. Mode.—Slice the onions and put them into a frying-pan with the cold beef and butter; place it over the fire, and keep turning and stirring the ingredients to prevent them burning. When of a pale brown, add the gravy and seasoning; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve very hot. This dish is excellent and economical. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. Seasonable at any time. 906.—STEWED OX-CHEEK. (Fr.—T£te de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—1 cheek, salt and water, 4 or 5 onions, butter and flour, 6 cloves, 3 turnips, 2 carrots, 1 bay-leaf, 1 head of celery, x bunch of savoury herbs, cayenne, black pepper and salt to taste, 1 oz. of butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of chili-vinegar, 2 tablespoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 tablespoonfuls of port, 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce. Mode.—Have the cheek boned, and prepare it the day before it is to be eaten, by cleaning and putting it to soak all night in salt and water. The next day wipe it dry and clean, and put it into a stewpan. Just cover it with water, skim well when it boils, and let it gently simmer till the meat is quite tender. Slice and fry, 3 onions in a little butter and flour, and put them into the gravy; add 2 whole onions, each stuck with three cloves, 3 turnips quartered, 2 carrots sliced, a bay-leaf, 1 head of celery, a bunch of herbs, and seasoning to taste of cayenne, black pepper and salt. Let these stew till perfectly tender ; then take out the cheek, divide into pieces fit to help at table, skim and strain the gravy, and thicken one pint and a half of it, with butter and flour in the above proportions. Add the vine- gar, ketchup, and port ; put in the pieces of cheek; let the whole boil up, and serve quite hot. Send it to table in a ragout-dish. If the colour of the gravy should not be very good, add a teaspoonful of the browning, No. 616. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, is. 3d. half head. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 907.-FRIED OX-FEET, or COW-HEEL (Fr.—Pied de Boeuf Frit.) Ingredients.—Ox-feet, the yolk of i egg, bread-crumbs, parsley, salt and cayenne to taste, boiling butter