General Observations on Game. 672 1388. Season for Game.—Between March 15th and August 1st is the worst time for game, for since 1872 a £5 penalty has been exacted from any person who shall kill or sell any one of a number of birds, of which these have most to do with the housekeeper—coot, dotterel, mallard, moorhen, plover, quail, snipe, woodcock, swan, teal, widgeon, wild duck, wheatear. They may be sold, however, if'they are proved to come from outside the limits of the United Kingdom, and a good deal of foreign game is sold to those who cannot content themselves during those months without a game course to dinner. Partridges and prairie hens come to us from America. 1389. To Keep Game.—All water birds should be eaten as fresh as possible, as their flesh is oily, and soon becomes rank. Most game is kept until putrefaction has commenced, and it is thought that the flavour is thereby developed. The time that it may be kept depends upon (1) the taste of the persons who are to eat it; (2) the weather; (3) the age of the bird. Taking all this together it is impossible to lay down any precise rules. In damp, muggy weather, even if the thermometer is not very high, game will keep a very little time, but in clear, windy weather, even if it is not very cold, it will keep for many days. It should always be kept in the fur or feathers, and should not be drawn, and should be hung up in a current of air. It may sometimes be necessary to pluck, truss, and half cook it, in which state it will keep a day or two longer. Old birds may always be kept longer than young ones, so that it is well, in case of having a good deal of game, to cook the old on one day and the young on another. Old birds also need longer cooking. 1390. To Choose Game.—At the beginning of the season it is easy to dis- tinguish between old and young, but towards the end of the year the distinctions become obliterated. Besides the smoothness of the claws and the small lip cleft of a young hare, the ear is tender, and can be easily torn. This sign, however, is not infallible if the ear is torn by the poulterer, who, by long practice, can always tear it very readily. The short, stumpy neck and long joints of a young rabbit or hare are a better guide, and a small bony knob can be felt near the foot of a leveret, which is absent in a full-grown hare. Partridges, at the beginning of the season, can always be distinguished by the shape of the long feathers in the wing : in an old bird they are round at the end, like the letter U ; in a young one they are pointed, like a V. The red-legged French partridges are rather larger and cheaper than the English, but they are not considered so good. The size of the spur, the smoothness of the legs, and the tenderness of the pinion are the best guides in choosing a pheasant ; and, indeed, these always are the points to observe in all birds, so far as their age is concerned. If they are in good condition the breast is thick and hard ; if lean, the breast feels thin and soft. The feet generally tell if a bird is fresh. They should be supple and moist, especially in water birds, but they soon become stiff and dry after the bird is dead. Game is less fat than poultry or butcher’s meat, and is generally thought to be very nourishing. It is also easy of digestion, and is valued in the sick room as well as on the table of the epicure. This does not apply to wild fowl, which have close, firm, and rather oily flesh, and are, therefore, unsuited to weak stomachs. A number of small birds spoken of in this chapter do not, strictly speaking, come within the limits of either game, wild fowl or poultry. They are eaten as articles of luxury to no great amount, and are placed here because they often replace game on the dinner table.