7% Fried Vegetable Marrow. Mode.—Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion; put in the marrows after peeling them, and boil them until quite tender. Take them up with a slice; halve served throughout the winter by storing them in a dry place; when wanted for use, a few slices should be cut and boiled in the same manner as above ; but, when once begun, the marrow must be eaten quickly, as it keeps but a short time after it is cut. Vegetable marrows are also very delicious mashed: they should be boiled, then drained and mashed smoothly with a wooden spoon. Heat them in a saucepan, add a seasoning of salt and pepper, and a small piece of butter, and dish with a few sippets of toasted bread placed round as a garnish. Served in this manner the dish is called Puree de Courge. Time.—Young vegetable marrows, 10 to 20 minutes; old ones, £ to £ hour. Average Cost, in full season, 2d. to 4d. each. Sufficient.—Allow half a moderate-sized marrow for each person. Seasonable in July, August and September; but may be preserved all the winter. Ingredients.—3 medium-sized vegetable marrows, egg and bread- crumbs,'hot lard. Mode.—Peel and boil the marrows until tender in salt and water; then drain and cut them in quarters, and take out the seeds. When VEGETABLE MARROW. The Vegetable Marrow —This vegetable is now extensively used, and belongs to the Cucur- bitacea. It is the C. ovifera of science, and, like the melon, gourd, cucumber and squash, is widely diffused in the tropical or warmer regions of the grobe Of Hie nature of this family we have already spoken when treating of the cucumber and, should they be very large, quarter them. Dish them on toast, and send to table with them a tureen of melted butter, or, in lieu of this, a small pat of salt butter. Large vegetable marrows may be pre- VEGETABLE MARROW ON TOAST. 1648.—FRIED VEGETABLE MARROW. (Fr.—Courge Frite.) thoroughly drained, brush the marrows over with egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs; have ready some hot fat or oil, fry the marrow in this, and when of a nice brown, dish ; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and serve. Time.—About £ hour to boil the marrow, 7 minutes to fry it. Average Cost, in full season, 2d. to 4d. each. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable in July, August and September, a d