250 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 530.—COLLARED SALMON. Ingredients.—A piece of salmon, say 3 lbs., a high seasoning of salt, pounded mace and pepper, water and vinegar, 3 bay-leaves. Mode.— Split the fish; scale, bone and wash it thoroughly clean; wipe it, and rub in the seasoning inside and out; roll it up, and bind firmly; lay it in a kettle, cover it with vinegar and water (one-third vine- gar. in proportion to the water); add the bay-leaves and a good season- ing of salt and whole pepper, and simmer till done. Do not remove the lid. Serve with melted butter or anchovy sauce. For preserving the collared fish, boil up the liquor in which it was cooked, and add a little more vinegar. Pour over when cold. Time.—f hour, or rather more. Habitat of the Salmon.—The salmon is styled by Walton the 11 king of fresh-water fish," and is found distributed over the north of Europe and Asia, from Britain to Kamschatka, but is never found in warm latitudes, nor has it ever been caught even so far south as the Mediterranean. It lives in fresh as well as in salt waters, depositing its spawn in the former, hundreds of miles from the mouths of some of those rivers to which it has been known to resort. In 1859, great efforts were made to introduce this fish into the Australian colonies ; and the attempt, after many difficulties, which were very skilfully overcome, has been successful. 531.—CRIMPED SALMON. (Fr.—Saumon Taillactes.) Salmon is frequently dressed in this way at many fashionable tables, but must be very fresh, and cut into slices 2 or 3 inches thick. Lay these in cold salt and water for 1 hour ; have ready some boiling water, salted, as in recipe No. 528, and well skimmed ; put in the fish, and sim- mer gently for a quarter of an hour, or rather more, should it be very thick ; garnish the same as boiled salmon, and serve with the same sauces. Time.—^ hour, more or less, according to size. Note.— Never use vinegar with salmon, as it spoils the taste and colour of the fish. The Salmon Tribe.— This is the Abdominal fish, forming the fourth of the orders of Linnreus. They are distinguished from other fishes by having two dorsal fins, of which the hindmost is fleshy and without rays. They have teeth both on the tongue and in the jaws, whilst the body is covered with round and minutely striated scales. Growth of the Salmon.—At the latter end of the year—some as soon as November—salmon begin to press up the rivers as far as they can reach, in order to deposit their spawn, which they do in the sand or gravel, about eighteen inches deep. Here it lies buried till the spring, when, about the latter end of March, it begins to produce the young, which gradually increase to four or five inches in length, and are then termed smelts, or smouts. About the beginning of May, the river seems to be alive with them, and there is no forming an idea of their numbers without