275 Fish Stew. Sufficient for 3 persons. 587.—WATER SOUCHY. (Fr.—Poisson en Souchy.) Perch, tench, soles, eels and flounders are considered the best fish for this dish. For the souchy, put some water into a stewpan with a bunch of chopped parsley, some roots, and sufficient salt to make it brackish. Let these simmer for 1 hour, and then stew the fish in this water. When they are done take them out to drain, have ready some finely chopped parsley, and a few roots cut into slices of about one inch thick and an inch in length. Put the fish in a tureen or deep dish, strain the liquor over them, and add the minced parsley and roots. Serve with browD bread and butter. 588.—FISH STEW. Ingredients—Fresh fish (4 small haddocks, plaice, or soles); 1 onion, a little parsley, mace, ground ginger, cayenne, 2 large lemons, 2 eggs, allspice, small piece of butter, £ lb. bread-crumbs. Mode.—Prepare the fish, saving the liver, by cutting them into nice pieces, sprinkle with salt. Take some of the uncooked fish and a little of the liver, chop it and make into forcemeat balls with the bread-crumbs, a little chopped parsley, allspice, and bind with 1 egg. Put into a stew- pan an onion cut into rings, a sprig of parsley, a piece of butter the size of a small walnut, a pinch each of ground ginger, mace and cayenne, a quarter of a pint of water. Simmer for 15 minutes, then lay in the fish and forcemeat balls and simmer for 30 minutes. Beat up the other egg with the juice of the lemons, add some of the fish liquor, then put the whole into the stewpan, boil up once and serve. Average Cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for 4 persons. 589—AN EXCELLENT RE SERVE FROM COLD FISH. (Fr.—Poissons au Gratin.) Ingredients.—Any remains of cold fish, bread-crumbs, melted butter, pepper and salt. Mode.—Free the cold fish from bones, skin and cut it into small pieces Well butter a flat pie-dish and dredge slightly with white pepper and salt. Grate on this a thick layer of bread-crumbs, then put a layer of fish and some melted butter, then another layer of crumbs, fish and melted butter, till the dish is filled. Let bread-crumbs form the top layer, and put the dish into a Dutch oven to brown for half an hour. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, without the cold fish, 3i. Seasonable at any time.