1558 Recipes for Sick-Nurse. strain. Stretch a piece of thin black silk upon a frame (a work-frame answers well for this) making it perfectly tight, then melt the isinglass and coat the silk with it, repeat the coating when it has cooled, then give the plaster two coats of balsam of Peru in the same manner as with the isinglass. 3509.-CAMPHORATED SPIRITS OF WINE. (Useful as an Embrocation for Sprains, Rheumatism, Chilblains, &c.) Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in \ pint of rectified spirits of wine. 3510. —TO TREAT A CUT. Draw the edges of the cut well together, and bind it up tight with linen rag. Soak the rag about the cut with Friar’s balsam or diluted tincture of arnica, in the proportion of 1 part of arnica to 10 parts of water. Both these preparations are so useful that they should always be kept ready. In the case of a very bad cut, the edges may be drawn together with a needle and thread. It is useless to think of applying plaster till the bleeding has ceased. 3511. —TO CURE A COLD. (A most Efficacious and Simple Remedy for a Severe Cold in the Head.) Take a small basin, put into it boiling water and strong camphorated spirit, in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful of spirit to \ pint of water. Wring out a sponge in this as hot as possible, and apply it to the nose or mouth ; draw in the steam with the nose first and then with the mouth ; swallow the steam, and, to prevent any escape, cover the head with a flannel. Repeat this operation for some time, having another hot sponge when the first gets cool. Sponges so wrung out in the same mixture may with great benefit be applied outwards to the throat and chest. Camphorated sal-volatile is a good medicine for a cold, 30 drops in a wineglass of warm water several times in the course of the day. 3512.—TO APPLY A BLISTER. Wash the skin with soap and water, warm the blister at the fire and lay it on, leaving it there from 7 hours or more till it rises. Snip the bladder then formed with sharp pointed scissors to let the water out, then dress with ointment spread upon lint. 3513-TO APPLY LEECHES. Should they not bite at once put the spot of blood obtained by a slight prick of the finger on the place. When filled they usually roll off; but if