Recipes for Cooking Game. 682 1406.-ROAST PHEASANT. (Fr.—Faisan Roti.) Ingredients.—Pheasant, flour, butter. Mode.—Roast it before a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and flour and froth it nicely. Serve with brown gravy, a little of which should be poured round the bird, and a tureen of bread-sauce. Some of the pheasant’s best tail-feathers are generally stuck in the tail as an ornament. Time.—£ to 1 hour, according to the size. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. each. Sufficient.—1 for a dish. Seasonable from the 1st of October to the beginning of February. Note.—Old pheasants may be known by the length and sharpness of their spurs; in young ones they are short and blunt. The cock-bird is generally reckoned the best, except when the hen is with egg. They should hang some time before they are dressed, as, if they are cooked fresh, the flesh will be ex- ceedingly dry and tasteless. After the bird is plucked and drawn, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and truss it in the same manner as partridge. If the head is left on, as shown in the engraving, bring it round under the wing, and fix it on the point of the skewer. The Pheasant.—This beautiful bird is said to have been discovered by the Argonauts on the banks of the Phasis, near mount Ararat, in their expedition to Colchis. It is common, however, in almost all the southern parts of the European Continent, and has been long naturalised in the warmest and most wordy counties of England. It is very common in France; indeed, so common as to be esteemed a nuisance by the farmers. Although it has been domesticated, this is not easily accomplished, nor is its flesh so palatable then as it is in the wild state. M. Ude says “ It is not often that pheasants are met with possessing that exquisite taste which is acquired only by long keeping, as the damp of this climate prevents their being kept as long as they are in Other countries. The hens, in general, are the most delicate. The cocks show their age by their spurs. They are only fit to be eaten when the blood begins to run from the bill, which is com- monly six days or a week after they have been killed. The flesh is white, tender, and has a good flavour, if you keep it long enough; if not, it is not much different from that of the common fowl or hen.” THE PHEASANT. 1407.-BRILLAT SAVARIN’S RECIPE FOR ROAST PHEASANT. (Fr.—Faisan Roti a la Sainte Alliance.) When the pheasant is in good condition to be cooked, it should be plucked, and not before. The bird should then be stuffed in the following manner:—Take two snipes, and draw them, putting the bodies on one plate and the livers, &c., on another. Take off the flesh, and mince it finely with a little beef, lard, a few truffles, pepper and salt to taste, and stuff the pheasant carefully with this. Cut a slice of bread