78 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. and add much to the appearance of fried fish. For the purpose of crumbling the bread smoothly and evenly, the bread grater is used, which is perforated on both sides with holes. Bread graters are supplied at <jd., is. and 15. 6d. each, or extra strong, with iron bands, at 25. The bread grater, represented in page 77, has smaller perforated plates attached to the sides for grating nutmeg, ginger, &c. 152. Colander.—This useful article comes into daily requisition. The most convenient and strongest form is that of a round tin basin with handles, perforated at the bottom and round the sides with small holes, as represented in the illustration given on page 74. It is used for straining vegetables, these being poured into the colander when they are cooked, and allowed to remain for a minute or two until all the water is drained from them, when they are dished. Colanders, or cullenders, as the word is sometimes spelt, are made in four sizes, supplied in tin at from is. 3d. to 2s. 6d. each, according to size. An improved form, all in one piece and in tin, are sold at from 4s. to 5s. 6d. each, according to size. Copper colanders, extra strong, tinned all over inside and out, are made io, it, 12 and 13 inches in diameter, and sold at 21s., 22s. 6d., 24s. and 27s. respectively. 153. Pestle and Mortar.—Pestles and mortars are made of iron, brass, marble, and Wedgewood ware. Those of marble or Wedgewood ware are decidedly to be preferred, as they can be so easily kept clean. This utensil is used for pounding sugar, spices, and other ingredients required in many prepara- tions of the culinary art. Pestles and mortars in Wedgewood ware, which is acid proof, are made in sizes ranging from 7 inches to 10 inches, taking the diameter of the top of the mortar, and are sold at from 45. to 75., according to size These prices include pestles. Marble mortars range in size from 10 to 14 inches, and in price from 9s. 6d. to 2os. An illustration of one of these is given in page 74. Pestles of lignum vitae, to be used with these mortars, cost from 3s. upwards, according to size. Brass pestles and mortars cost from 15s. to 30s. 154. Preserving Pans.— Jams, jellies, marmalades and preserves are made in these utensils, which should be kept scrupulously clean, and well examined before being used. Copper preserving pans, as shown in the illustration given in page 59, range in size from 11 to 18 inches in diameter, in capacity from 5 quarts to 21 quarts, and in price from 16s. to 25s. Preserving pans in enamelled cast iron are sold at from 6s. 6d. upwards, according to size. 155. Vegetable Cutters.—Vegetables are cut out in fanciful shapes, by means of these little cutters. Stewed steaks, and such like dishes, where the vegetables form an important addition, are much improved in appearance by having them shaped. The price of a box of vegetable cutters ranges from 35. 3d. to 8s. 6d. Fancy cutters are sold at 6d. each. These cutters can be made useful in ornamenting pastry, or cutters especially made for the purpose can be had at 9d. each, or in boxes from 35. to js., according to make. One of the most useful shapes of paste and vegetable cutters is represented in page 77. 156. Cucumber Slice.—For shredding cucumbers into the thinnes. possible slices, the little machine shown in page 80 is used. It is made of wood, with a steel knife running across the centre, and sold at 35. After the cucumber is pared it should be held upright, and worked backwards and forwards on the knife, bearing sufficiently hard to make an impression on the cucumber 157. Pasteboard and Polling Pin.—This is so familiar a piece of kitchen furniture that very little description will be required of it. Pasteboards require to be very nicely kept. They should not hang in a damp place, as then they are liable to get mildewed, and the stains thus caused will very seldom scrub