244 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 515.—STEWED OYSTERS. (Fr.—Huitres a la Creme.) Ingredients.—1 pint of oysters, 1 oz. of butter, flour, i of a pint of cream, cayenne and salt to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, beard them, and strain the liquor; put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up, add the oyster-liquor and mace, and stir it over a sharp fire with a wooden spoon ; when it comes to a boil, add the cream, oysters and seasoning. Let all simmer for 1 or 2 minutes, but not longer, or the oysters would harden. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets of bread. A small piece of lemon-peel boiled with the oyster-liquor, and taken out before the cream is added, will be found an improvement. Time.—Altogether 15 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, 4s. 6d. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 6 persons. The Oyster and the Scallop.—The oyster is described as a bivalve shell-fish, having the valves generally unequal. The hinge is without teeth, but furnished with a somewhat oval cavity, and mostly with lateral transverse grooves. From a similarity in the structure of the hinge, oysters and scallops have been classified as one tribe; but they differ very essen- tially both in their external appearance and their habits. Oysters adhere to rocks, or, as in two or three species, to roots of trees on the shore; while the scallops are always detached, and usually lurk in the sand. 516.—OYSTER PATTIES. (Fr.—Petits Pates aux Huitres.) Ingredients.—2 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, a little lemon juice, 1 blade pounded mace, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and cut each one into three pieces. Put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufficient flower to dry it up ; add the strained oyster liquor with the other ingredients ; put in the oysters, and let them heat gradually, but not boil. Make the patty-cases as directed for small Vol au Vents ; fill with the oyster mixture, and replace the covers. Time.—2 minutes for the oysters to simmer in the mixture. Average Cost, exclusive of the patty-cases, 2s. 4d. Seasonable from September to April. The Oyster Fishery.—The oyster fishery in Britain is esteemed of so much importance that it is regulated by a Court of Admiralty. In the month of May, the fishermen are allowed to take the oysters, in order to separate the spawn from the cultch, the latter of which is thrown in again, to preserve the bed for the future. After this month, it is felony to carry away the cultch, and otherwise punishable to take any oyster, between the shells of which, when closed, a shilling will rattle. 517-—TO KEEP OYSTERS. Put them in a tub, and cover them with salt and water. Let them remain for 12 hours, when they are to be taken out, and allowed to stand another 12 hourg without water. If left without water every alternate 13