1551 The Sick-Bed. were worth to them two or three guineas a week, down on their knees, scouring a room or hut, because they thought it was not fit for their patients; these women had the true nurse-spirit.” Bad smells are sometimes met by sprinkling a little liquid chloride of lime on the floor; fumigation by burning pastiles is also a common expedient for the purification of the sick-room. They are useful, but only in the sense hinted at by the medical lecturer, who commenced his lecture thus :—“ Fumigations, gentlemen, are of essential importance ; they make so abominable a smell, that they compel you to open the windows and admit fresh air.” In this sense they are useful, but ineffectual unless the cause be removed, and fresh air admitted. 3486. The sick-room should be quiet: no talking, no gossiping, and above all, no whispering—this is absolute cruelty to the patient; he thinks his complaint the subject, and strains his ear painfully to catch the sound. When it is necessary to speak, let it be distinctly and clearly so that the patient may hear what is said. It is not expedient to speak of him or his case, but avoid all appearance of mystery. No rustling of dresses, nor creaking shoes either ; where the carpets are taken up, the nurse should wear shoes of list, or some other noiseless material, and her dress should be of soft texture that does not rustle. Miss Nightingale denounces crinoline, and quotes Lord Melbourne on the subject of women in the sick-room, who said, “ I would rather have men about me, when ill, than women ; it requires very strong health to put up with women.” Ungrateful man ! but absolute quiet is necessary in the sick-room. Instead of a coal- scuttle a basket should be used, filled with convenient sized pieces that can be put upon the fire with the hand, while a stick might take the place of a poker, and thus save a great deal of noise when it is necessary to make up the fire. Take from the room if there be any superfluous articles of furniture, boxes, &c., and let the sick-room be as free as possible so that its cleansing and sweeping will occupy less time. In the case of infectious disease, move things only into an unused room, where they can later on be disinfected. An extra room adjoining the sick-room is invaluable to a good nurse, for here, if it be warm weather, she can, if necessary, have a fire, can air linen, wash up any plates, glasses, &c., and do a hundred and one little duties she would other- wise be compelled to perform in the sick-room, thus saving, it may be, much dis- turbance to the patient, and being able to keep the sick-room as it should be kept, free from noise or litter of any sort. Never let the patient be waked out of his first sleep by noise, never roused by anything like a surprise. Always sit in the apartment, so that the patient has you in view, and that it is not necessary for him to turn in speaking to you. Never keep a patient standing ; never speak to one while moving. Never lean on the sick-bed. Above all, be calm and decisive with the patient, and prevent all noises over-head. 3487. The Sick-Sed.—A careful nurse, when a patient leaves his bed, wi; open the sheets wide, and throw the sheets back so as to thoroughly air the bed. She will avoid drying or airing anything damp in the sick-room. A small bed, or rather a narrow one, is best for an invalid, for if he has to be moved it is far easier for the nurse to manage it than on a wide one. A mattress is better than a feather bed. 8 E REVERSIBLE OR “ POTSDAM"