Breast of Veal. 469 Time.—About \ hour to reduce the stock. Average Cost, exclusive of the calf’s head, 4s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from March to October. A Frenchman’s Opinion of Veal.—A great authority in his native Paris tells us, that veal, as a meat, is but little nourishing, is relaxing, and sufficiently difficult of digestion. “ Lending itself, as it does,” he says, in all the flowery imagery of the French tongue and manner, to so many metamorphoses, it may be called, without exaggeration, the chameleon of the kitchen. Who has not eaten calf’s head au naturel, simply boiled with the skin on, its flavour heightened by sauce just a little sharp? It is a dish as wholesome as it is agreeable, and one that the most inexperienced cook may serve with success. Calf’s feet d la poulette, au gratin, fried, &c. ; les cervelles, served in the same manner, and under the same names; sweetbreads en fricandeau, piquts en fin, all these offer most satisfactory entries, which the art of the cook, more or less, varies for the gratification of his glory and the well-being of our appetites. We have not spoken, in the above catalogue, either of the liver, or of the/raise, or of the ears, which also share the honour of appearing at our table. Where is the man not acquainted with calfs liver d la bourgeoise, the most frequent and convenient dish at unpre- tentious tables ? The fraise, cooked in water, and eaten with vinegar, is a wholesome and agreeable dish, and contains a mucilage well adapted for delicate persons. Calfs ears have, in common with the feet and cervelles, the advantage of being able to be eaten either fried or d la poulette; and besides, can be made into a farce, with the addition of peas, onions, cheese, &c. Neither is it confined to the calfs tongue, or even the eyes, that these shall dispute alone the glory of awakening the taste of man ; thus, the pressure (which, as is known, comprises the heart, the mou, and the rate), although not a very recherche dish, lends itself to all the caprices of an expert artist, and may, under various marvellous disguises, deceive, and please, and even awaken our appetite.” GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING VEAL. 1034.—BREAST OF VEAL. The carving of a breast of veal is not dissimilar to that of a fore- quarter of lamb, when the shoulder has been taken off. The breast of veal consists of two parts— the rib-bones and the gris- tly brisket. These parts should first be separ- ated by sharply passing the knife in the direction of lines A, B ; when they are entirely divided, the rib- bones should be carved in the direction of the lines E to F ; and the brisket can be helped by cutting pieces in the direction C to D. The carver should ask the guests whether they have a preference for the brisket or ribs ; and if there be a sweetbread served with the dish, as it often is with roast breast of veal, each person BREAST OF VEAL. should receive a piece,