Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 852 Seasonable at any time. paste, and at the bottom put a thick layer of any kind of jam; pour the above mixture, cold, on the jam, and bake the pudding for an hour. Serve cold, with a little sifted sugar sprinkled over. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1808.—SWEET MACARONI PUDDING. Ingredients.—2\ oz. of macaroni, 2 pints of milk, the rind of ^a lemon, 3 eggs, sugar and grated nutmeg to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Put the macaroni, with a pint of the milk, into a saucepan with the lemon-peel, and let it simmer gently until the macaroni is tender; then put it into a pie-dish without the peel; mix the other pint of milk with the eggs; stir these well together, adding the sugar and brandy, and pour the mixture over the macaroni. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a mode- rate oven for half an hour. To make this pudding look nice, a paste should be laid round the edge of the dish> and, for variety, a layer of preserve or marmalade may be placed on the macaroni; in this case omit the brandy. Time.—\ hour to simmer the macaroni, ^ hour to bake the pudding. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. macaroni. Seasonable at any time. Macaroni is composed of wheaten flour, worked up with water into a paste, to which, by a peculiar process, a tubular or pipe form is given, in order that it may cook more readily in hot water. That of smaller diameter than macaroni (which is about the thickness of a goose-quill) is called vermicelli ; and when smaller still, fidelini. The finest is made from the flour of the hard- grained Black Sea wheat. Macaroni is the principal article of food in many parts of Italy, particularly Naples, where the best is manufactured, and from whence, also, it is exported in considerable quantities. In this country macaroni and vermicelli are frequently used in soups. Our picture shows what is generally sold as Genoa macaroni, the Naples being in long, straight tubes; but there are many different varieties. 1809.-MACARONI PUDDING. (An Excellent Way of Making.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of macaroni, 1 pint of sherry, 2 lemons, £ pint of milk, 6 eggs, £ lb. of Sultana raisins, £lb. of loaf sugar, pounded ; £ oz. of allspice. Mode.—Boil the macaroni in the wine and lemon-juice with the thin lemon-rind' until tender; then add the milk and the eggs, well beaten ; pour into a dish, and add the other ingredients, cover with puff-paste, and bake 20 minutes. Apple sauce is the nicest to serve with this dish. Time.—^ to 1 hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons.