Black or Red Currant Pudding. 833 Seasonable at any time. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix it with the flour and add the currants, which should be nicely washed, picked and dried ; mix the whole to a limp paste with the water (if wanted very nice use milk); divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings; tie them in cloths and boil for ijr hour. They maybe boiled without a cloth : they should then be made into round balls and dropped into boiling water and should be moved about at first, to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. Serve with a cut lemon, cold butter and sifted sugar. Time.—In a cloth, 1J hour; without, f hour. Aver- age Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. Zante Currants.—The dried fruit which goes by the name of currants in grocers’ shops is not a currant really, but a small kind of grape, chiefly cultivated in the Morea and the Ionian Islands, Corfu, Zante, &c. Those of Zante are cultivated in an immense plain, under the shelter of moun- tains on the shore of the island, where the sun has great power and brings them to maturity. When gathered and dried by the sun and air, on mats, they are conveyed to magazines, heaped together, and left to cake until ready for shipping. They are then dug out by iron crowbars, trodden into casks, and exported. The fertile vale of “ Zante the Woody ” produces about 9,000,000 lbs. of currants annually. In cakes and puddings this delicious little grape is most extensively used; in fact, we could not make a plum pudding without the currants. 1756.-BOIL.ED CURRANT PUDDING. (Plain and Economical.) Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, £ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of currants, milk. Mode.—Wash the currants, dry them thoroughly and pick away any stalks or grit; chop the suet finely ; mix all the ingredients together and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding into a stiff batter; tie it up in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water and boil for 3^ hours; serve with a cut lemon, cold butter and sifted sugar. Time.—3^ hours. Average Cost, lod. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 1757-—BLACK OR RED CURRANT PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 quart of red or black currants, measured with the stalks; J lb. of moist sugar, suet crust, No. 1684, or butter crust, No. 1682. Mode.—Make, with f lb. of flour, either a suet crust or butter crust (the former is usually made); butter a basin and line it with part of the crust: put in the currants, which should be stripped from the stalks, and sprinkle the sugar over them ; put the cover of the pudding on, make the edges very secure, that the juice does not escape; tie it down with a floured cloth, put it into boiling water and boil from 2| to 3 hours. Boiled without a basin, allow half an hour less. We have allowed rather a large ZANTE CURRANTS.