§2 2 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient to fill 8 custard-glasses. 1969.—BOILED CUSTARDS. (Fr.— Pots de Creme a la Vanille au Citron.) Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 laurel, leaves, or the rind of | a lemon, or a few drops of essence of vanilla, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, and which- ever of the above flavourings may be preferred (the lemon-rind flavours custards most deliciously), and let the milk steep by the side of the fire until it is well flavoured. Bring it to the point of boiling, then strain it into a basin; whisk the eggs well, and, when the milk has cooled a little, stir in the eggs, and strain this mixture into a jug. Place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire; keep stirring the custard one way until it thickens; but on no account allow it to reach the boiling-point, as it will instantly curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, stir in the brandy, and, when this is well mixed with the custard, pour it into glasses, which should be rather more than three-parts full; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and when cold the dish is ready. To make custards look and taste better, ducks’ eggs may be used, when obtainable ; they add very much to the flavour and richness, and so many are not required as of the ordinary eggs, 4 ducks’ eggs to the pint of milk making a delicious custard. When desired extremely rich and good, cream should be substituted for the milk, and double the quantity of eggs used to those mentioned, omitting the whites. Time.—i hour to infuse the lemon-rind, about xo minutes to stir the custard. Average Cost, 9d. 1970.-CREAM EGGS. Ingredients.—7 eggs, £ a pint of milk, £ a pint of cream, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, 2 lemons, 1 oz. of isinglass or gelatine, £ lb. of flour, water, a few strips of angelica and candied peel, some pistachio nuts, £ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 glasses of brandy or liqueur. Mode .—Take out the contents of the eggs by removing as little as possible of the shell at one end of each, and make a sponge cake by recipe for same, baking it in a round plain tin. (If the eggs can be used for another dish a stale sponge cake is better for the nest.) With the re- maining ingredients make a cream by recipe No. 2003, and having care- fully wiped out each shell and dipped it in water, fill them with the mixture, putting them upright on the unbroken ends to set. When the CUSTARDS IN GLASSES.