1465 Treatment of Harness. circumstances: a fresh young horse can bruise its own oats when it can get them; but aged horses, after a time, lose the power of masticating and bruising them, and bolt them whole : thus much impeding the work of digestion. For an old horse, then, bruise the oats; for a young one it does no harm and little good. Oats should be bright and dry, and not too new. Where they are new, sprinkle them with salt and water; otherwise, they overload the horse’s stomach. Chopped straw mixed with oats, in the proportion of a third of straw or hay, is a good food for horses in full work ; and carrots, of which horses are remarkably fond, have a Derceptible effect in a short time on the gloss of the coat. 3247. Shoeing.—A horse should not be sent on a journey or any other hard work immediately after new shoeing ; the stiffness incidental to new shoes is not unlikely to bring him down. A day’s rest, with reasonable exercise, will not be thrown away after this operation. Have the feet stopped at night after being shod ; it will keep the feet moist, and allow the nails to get better hold. On reaching home very hot, the groom should walk him about for a few minutes ; this done, he should take off the moisture with the scraper, and afterwards wisp him over with a handful of straw and a flannel cloth ; if the cloth is dipped in some spirit all the better. He should wash, pick, and wipe dry the legs and feet, take off the bridle and crupper, and fasten it to the rack, then the girths, and put a wisp of straw under the saddle. When sufficiently cool, the horse should have some hay given him, and then a feed oats : if he refuse the latter, offer him a little wet bran, or a handful of oatmeal in tepid water. When he has been fed, he should be thoroughly cleaned, and his body-clothes put on, and, if very much harassed with fatigue, a little good ale or wine will be well-bestowed on a valuable horse, adding plenty of fresh litter under the belly. 3248. Harness.—Every time a horse is unbridled, the bit should be care- fully washed and dried, and the leather wiped, to keep them sweet, as well as the girths and saddle, the latter being carefully dried and beaten with a switch before it is again put on. In washing a horse’s feet after a day’s work, the master should insist upon the legs and feet being washed thoroughly with a sponge until the water flows over them, and then rubbed with a brush till quite dry. Harness, if not care- fully preserved, very soon gets a shabby, tarnished appearance. Where the coachman has a proper harness- room and sufficient assistance, this is inexcusable and easily prevented. The harness-room should have a wooden lining all round, and be per- fectly dry and well ventilated. Around the walls, hooks and pegs should be placed for the several pieces of har- ness, at such a height as to prevent their touching the ground ; and every part of the harness should have its peg or hook—one for the halters, another for the reins, and others for snaffles and other bits and metal-work ; and either a wooden horse or saddle-tree for saddles and pads. All these parts should be dry, clean and shining. This is only to be done by careful cleaning and polishing, and the use of several requisite pastes. The metallic parts, when white, should be cleaned by a soft brush and plate-powder ; the copper and brass parts burnished with rottenstone powder and oil—steel with emery powder ; both made into e. paste with a little oil. THE CORN-BOX.