Bread Puddings. P25 Mode.—Grate three-quarters of a lb. of crumbs from a stale brown loaf; add to these the currants and suet, and be particular that the latter is finely chopped. Put in the remaining ingredients; beat the pudding well for a few minutes; put it into a buttered basin or mould ; tie it down tightly, and boil for nearly 4 hours. Send sweet sauce to table with it. Time.—Nearly 4 hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time; but more suitable for a winter pudding. 1734.-MINIATURE BREAD PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, £ lb. of bread-crumbs, 4 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 1 teaspoonful of finely- minced lemon-peel. Mode.—Make the milk boiling, pour it on to the bread-crumbs, and let them soak for about half an hour. Beat the eggs, mix these with the bread-crumbs, add the remaining ingredients, and stir well until all is thoroughly mixed. Butter some small cups; rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to half an hour, and serve with sweet sauce. A few currants may be added to these puddings ; about 3 oz. will be found sufficient for the above quan- tity. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 7 or 8 small puddings. Seasonable at any time. 1735.—A NICE BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 teacupful of milk, 3 teacupful of fine bread-crumbs, 1 egg, loaf-sugar, nutmeg. Mode.—Boil the milk and pour it boiling over the bread-crumbs, and let them cool. Then beat very finely, and add the egg, the yolk and white beaten separately, a little pounded loaf-sugar and grated nutmeg. Butter a large cup, pour in the mixture, tie a buttered paper over it, then tie it in a cloth and boil for 20 minutes or half an hour. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 2d. Sufficient for 1 person. Seasonable at any time. 1736.-BAKED BREAD-AND BUTTER PUDDING. Ingredients.—9 thin slices of bread and butter, i£ pint of milk, 4 eggs, sugar to taste, \ lb. of currants, flavouring of vanilla, grated lemon-peel or nutmeg.