Stewed Beef. 4*7 Mode.—Cut the celefy into 2*inch pieces, put thetn id a stewpkn, with the gravy and onions, simmer gently until the celery is tender, when add the beef cut into rather thick pieces; stew gently for io minutes, and serve with fried potatoes. Time.—From 20 to 25 minutes to stew the celery. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 8d. Seasonable from September to January. 932.—STEWED BEEF WITH OYSTERS. (Fr.—Bceuf aux Huitres.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A few thick steaks of cold ribs or sirloin of beef, 2 02. of butter, 1 onion sliced, pepper and salt to taste, £ glass of port wine, a little flour to thicken, 1 dozen oysters, rather more than \ pint of water. Mode.—Cut the steaks rather thick, from cold sirloin or ribs of beef; brown them lightly in a stewpan, with the butter and a little water; add half a pint of water, the onion, pepper and salt, and cover the stewpan closely, and let it simmer very gently for half an hour; then mix about a teaspoonful of flour smoothly with a little of the liquor; add the port wine and oysters, their liquor having been previously strained and put into the stewpan; stir till the oysters plump, and serve. It should not boil after the oysters are added, or they will harden. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, is. 6d. Seasonable from September to April. 933 -STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF. (Fr.—Poitrine de Boeuf h la Bourgeoise.) Ingredients.—7 lbs. of a brisket of beef, vinegar and salt, 6 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 small onions, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 whole allspice pounded, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup; stock, or water. Mode.—About an hour before dressing it, rub the meat over with vinegar and salt; put it into a stewpan, with sufficient stock to cover it (when this is not at hand, water may be substituted for it), and bo parti- cular that the stewpan is not much larger than the meat. Skim well, and when it has simmered very gently for 1 hour, put in the vegetables, and continue simmering till the meat is perfectly tender. Draw out the bones, dish the meat, and garnish either with tufts of cauliflower or braised cab- bage cut in quarters. Thicken as much gravy as required, with a little butter and flour; add spices and ketchup in the above proportion, give