1025 'To Pickle Eggs. 3223.—AN EXCELLENT WAY OF PRESERVING CUCUMBERS. Ingredients.—Salt and water ; 1 lb. of lump sugar, the rind of 1 oz. of ginger, cucumbers. Mode.—Choose the greenest cucumbers, and those that are most free from seeds; put them in strong salt-and-water, with a cabbage-leaf to keep them down ; tie a paper over them, and put them in a warm place till they are yellow ; then wash them and set them over the fire in fresh water, with a very little salt, and another cabbage-leaf over them ; cover very closely, but take care they do not boil. If they are not a fine green, change the water again, cover them as before, and make them hot. When they are a good colour, take them off the fire and let them cool; cut them in quarters, take out the seeds and pulp, and put them into cold water. Let them remain for 2 days, changing the water twice each day to draw out the salt. Put the sugar, with half a pint of water, in a sauce- pan over the fire ; remove the scum as it rises, and add the lemon-peel and ginger with the outside scraped off; when the syrup is tolerably thick, take it off the fire, and when cold, wipe the cucumbers dry, and put them in. Boil the syrup once in 2 or 3 days for 3 weeks; strengthen it if required, and let it be quite cold before the cucumbers are put in. Great attention must be paid to the directions in the commencement of this recipe, as, if these are not properly carried out, the result will be far from satisfactory. Seasonable.—This recipe should be used in June, July or August. Salting Cucumbers and Salads.—It is thought by some people that the ]uice of a freshly-cut cucumber contains a certain amount of poison, which it is necessary to extract with salt sprinkled over the slices some time before the dish is required, when they are drained from the moisture that has escaped before the remainder of thedressmg is added. Tnis treatment, however, takes away much of the delightful crispness and freshness of a good cucumber, and renders it flabby, so cooks who really know how to serve vegetables (How few do in England?) omit the salt altogether, put pepper and oil on first, and the vinegar the moment before serving. If there be any poison in the cucumber, its proportion must be infinitesi- mal in the quantity consumed by each person, certainly not sufficient to do anyone any harm. Lettuces also suffer from the addition of salt when cut up for salad, and it should telegraph cucumbers. not be used for a plain one dressed with . , . . pepper, oil and vinegar ; though a little is needed in making a dressing of the Mayonnaise type when the foundation is composed of yolk of egg. 2224.—TO PICKLE EGGS. (AL-CEufs Marines.) Ingredients.—16 eggs, 1 quart of vinegar, | oz. of black pepper, 4 oz. of Jamaica pepper, 4 oz. of ginger.