Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 6io manner renders the flesh very white. Bailed ham, bacon, boiled tongue, or pickled pork are the usual accompaniments to boiled fowls, and they may be served with bechamel, white sauce, parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, celery or mushroom sauce. A little should be poured over the fowls, after the skewers are removed, and the remainder sent in a tureen to table. Time.—Large fowl, i hour; moderate-sized one, f hour; chicken, from 20 minutes to £ hour. Average Cost, in full season, 5s. the pair. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. Note.—In choosing fowls for boiling, it should be borne in mind that those that are not black-legged are generally much whiter when dressed. The Game Fowl.—Respecting the period at which this well-known member of the Gallus family became domesticated, history is silent. There is little doubt, however, that, like the dog, it has been attached to mankind ever since mankind were attached to civilisation. Although the social position of this bird is, at the present time, highly respectable, it is nothing to what it was when Rome was mistress of the world. Writing at that period, Pliny says, respecting the domestic cock: “ The gait of the cock is proud and commanding; he walks with head erect and elevated crest; alone, of all birds, he habitually looks up to the sky, raising, at the same time, his curved and scythe- formed tail, and inspiring terror in the lion himself, that most intrepid of animals. . . They regulate the conduct ot our magistrates, and open or close to them their own houses. They prescribe rest or movement to the Roman fasces: they command or prohibit battles. In a word, they lord it over the masters of the world.’’ As well among the ancient Greeks as the Romans, was the cock re- garded with respect, and even awe. The former people practised divination by means of tills bird. Supposing there to be a doubt in the camp as to the fittest day to fight a battle, the letter of every day in the week would be placed face downwards, and a grain of corn placed on each ; then the sacred cock would be let loose, and, according to the letters he pecked his corn from, so would the battle-time be regulated. On one momentous occasion, however, a person inimical to priestly interest officiously examined the grain, and found that those lying on the letters not wanted were made of wax, and the birds, preferring the true grain, left these untouched. It is needless to add that, after this, divination through the medium of cocks and grain fell out of fashion. Whether or no the learned fowl above alluded to were of the “ game ” breed is unknown ; but that the birds were bred for the inhuman sport of fighting many hundred years before the Christian era there can be no doubt Themistocles, the Athenian king, who flourished more than two thousand years ago, took advantage of the sight of a pitched battle between two cocks to harangue his soldiers on courage. “ Observe,” said he, “ with what intrepid valour they fight, inspired by no other motive than love of victory; whereas you have to contend for your religion and liberty, for your wives and children, and for the tombs of your ancestors.” And to this day his courage has not degenerated. He still preserves his bold and elegant gait, his sparkling eye, while his wedge- shaped beak and cruel spurs are ever ready to support his defiant crow. It is no wonder that the breed is not plentiful—first, on account of the few eggs laid by the hen ; and, secondly, from the incurable pugnacity of the chicks. Half-fledged broods may be found blind as bats from fighting, and only waiting for the least glimmer of sight to be at it again. Without doubt, the flesh of game fowls is in every way superior to that of every chicken of the family. GAME FOWLS. 1296.—BOILED FOWL AND RICE. (Fr.—Poulet au Riz.) Ingredients.—I fowl, mutton broth, 2 onions, 2 small blades of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, \ pint of rice, parsley and butter. Mode.—Truss the fowl as for boiling, and put it into a stewpan with