377 Various Breeds of Oxen. 851. Among the Various Breeds of the Oac, upon which man has bestowed his highest powers of culture, there is now none that takes a higher place than that known by the name of Short-Horns. From the earliest ages, Great Britain has been distinguished for the excellence of her native breeds of cattle, and there are none in England that have attained grea ter celebrity than those who have this name, and which originated about seventy years ago, on the banks of the Tees. Thence they have spread into the valleys of the Tweed, thence to the Lothians in Scotland, and southward into the fine pastures of England. They are now esteemed the most profitable breed of cattle, as there is no animal which attains sooner to maturity, and none that supplies meat of a superior quality. The value of some of the improved breeds is something enormous. At the sale of Mr. Charles Colling, a breeder in Yorkshire, in 1810, his bull “ Comet ” sold for 1,000 guineas. At the sale of Earl Spencer s herd in 1846, 104 cows, heifers and calves, with nineteen bulls, fetched £8,468 5s. being an average of £68 17s. apiece. The value of such animals is scarely to be estimated by those who are unacquainted with the care with which they are tended, and with the anxious attention which is paid to the purity of their breed. A modern writer, well acquainted with this subject says: “There are now at least five hundred herds, large and small, in this kingdom, and from six to seven thousand head registered every alternate year in the ‘ Herd-book.’ ’’ The necessity for thus recording the breeds is greater than might, at first sight, be imagined, as it tends directly to preserve the character of the cattle, while it sometimes adds to the value and reputation of the animal thus entered. Besides, many of the Americans, and large purchasers for the foreign market, will not look at an animal without the breeder has taken care to qualify him for such reference. Of short-horned stock, there is annually sold from £40,000 to £50,000 worth by public auction, independent of the vast numbers disposed of by private contract. The breed is highly prized in Belgium, Prussia, France, Italy and Russia; it is imported into most of the British Colonies, and is greatly esteemed, both for its meat and its dairy produce, wherever it is known. The quickness with which it takes on flesh and the weight which it frequently makes, are well known. Bullocks from four to five years old often weigh from 800 to 1,000 lbs. Such animals command from the butcher from £30 to £40 per head, according to the quality ; whilst steers, of two or three years old, and, of course, of less weight, bring as much as £20 apiece. SHORT-HORN COW. SHORT-HORN BULL.