936 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. 2001.— ECONOMICAL LEMON CREAM. Ingredients.—I quart of milk, 8 bitter almonds, 2 oz. of gelatine, 2 large lemons, f lb. of lump sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.—Put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the almonds, which should be well pounded in a mortar, the gelatine, lemon-rind, and lump sugar ; simmer these ingredients for about 8 minutes. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, strain the milk into a jug, add the eggs, and pour the mixture backwards and forwards a few times, until nearly cold ; then stir briskly to it the lemon-juice, which should be strained, and keep stirring until the cream is almost cold ; put it into an oiled mould and let it remain until perfectly set. The lemon-juice must not be added to the cream when it is warm, and should be kept well stirred after it is put in. Time.—8 minutes to boil the milk. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient to fill two i£-pint moulds. Seasonable at any time. 2002.—LEMON CREAMS. (Fr.— Creme au Citron.) (Very Good.) Ingredients.—i pint of cream, 2 dozen sweet almonds, 3 glasses of sherry, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, sugar to taste. Mode.—Blanch and chop the almonds, and put them into a jug with the cream ; in another jug put the sherry, lemon-rind, strained juice, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Pour rapidly from one jug to the other till the mixture is well frothed ; then pour it into jelly-glasses, omitting the lemon-rind. This is a very cool and delicious sweet for summer, and may be made less rich by omitting the almonds, and substituting orange or raisin wine for the sherry. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient to fill 12 glasses. Seasonable at any time. 2003.—LEMON CREAMS OR CUSTARDS. (Fr.— Pots de Creme au Citron.) Ingredients.—5 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 pints of boiling water, the rind of 1 lemon and the juice of 3, the yolks of 8 eggs. Mode.—Make a quart of lemonade in the following manner : Dissolve the sugar in the boiling water, having previously, with part of the sugar, rubbed off the lemon-rind, and add the strained juice. Strain the lemon- ade into a saucepan, and add the yolks of the eggs, which should be well beaten ; stir this one way over the fire until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, and serve in custard-glasses, or on a glass dish. After