4T2 Recipes for Cooking Beef. 921.—ROAST RIBS OF BEEF. (Fr.—Cotes de Bceuf.) Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode.—The fore-rib is considered the primest roasting piece, but the middle-rib is considered the most economical. Let the meat be well hung (should the weather permit), and cut off the thin ends of the bones, which should be salted for a few days, and then boiled. Put the meat down to a nice clear fire, put some clean dripping into the pan, dredge the joint with a little flour, and keep continually basting the whole time. Sprinkle some fine salt over it (this must never be done until the joint is dished, as it draws the juices from the meat) ; pour the dripping from the pan, put in a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain the gravy over the meat. Garnish with tufts of scraped horseradish, and send horse- radish sauce to table with it {see No. 717). A Yorkshire pudding (see Puddings) sometimes accompanies this dish, and, if lightly made and well cooked, will be found a very agreeable addition. Time.—10 lbs. of beef, hours; 14 to 16 lbs., from 3^ to 4 hours. Average Cost, Hd. per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs., for 12 persons. Seasonable at any tine. Memoranda in Roasting.—The management of the fire is a point of primary importance in roasting A radiant fire throughout the operation is absolutely necessary to insure a good result. When the article to be dressed is thin and delicate, the tire may be small; but when the joint is large, the fire must fill the grate. Meat must never be put down before a hollow or exhausted fire, which may soon want recruiting; on the other hand, if the heat of the fire becomes too fierce, the meat must be removed to a considerable distance till it is somewhat abated. Some cooks always fail in their roasts, though they succeed in nearly everything else. A French writer on the culinary art says that anybody can learn how to cook, but one must be born a roaster. .According to Liebig, beef or mutton cannot be said to be sufficiently roasted until it has acquired, throughout the whole mass, a temperature of 158“; but poultry may be well cooked when the inner parts have attained a temperature of from 130° to 140°. This depends on the greater amount of blood which beef and mutton contain, the colouring matter of blood not being coagulable under 158°. 922.—ROAST RIBS OF BEEF, Boned and Rolled. (Fr.— Cotes de Boeuf.) (A very Convenient Joint for a Small Family.) * Ingredients.—1 or 2 ribs of beef. Mode.—Choose a fine rib of beef, and have it cut, according to the weight you require, either wide or narrow. Bone and roll the meat round, secure it with wooden skewers, and, if necessary, bind it round with a piece of tape. Spit the beef firmly, or, if a bottle-jack is used, put the joint on the hook, and place it near a nice clear fire. Let it remain so till the outside of the meat is set, when draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting till the meat is done, which can be ascertained by the steam from it drawing towards the fire. As this joint is solid, rather more than a quarter of an hour must be allowed for each pound. Remove