The Essex Sow. 527 objectionable colour has been entirely done away with, being now either all white or completely black. 1157. The Essex Sow.—Next to the former, the Essex takes place in pub- lic estimation, always competing, and often successfully, with the Berkshire. The peculiar characters of the Essex breed are that it is tip-eared, has a long sharp head, is roach-backed, with long flat body, standing high on the legs; is rather bare of hair, is a quick feeder, has an enormous capacity of stomach and belly, and an appetite to match its receiving capability. Its colour is white, or else black and white, and it has a restless habit and an unquiet disposition. The present valuable stock has sprung from a cross between the common native animal and either the White Chinese or Black Neapolitan breeds. 1158. The Yorkshire, called also the Old Lincolnshire, was at one time the largest stock of the pig family in England, and, perhaps, at that time, the worst, it was long-legged, weak in the loins, with coarse white curly YORKSHIRE SOW. CUMBERLAND SOW. hair, and flabby flesh. Now, however, it has undergone as great a change as any breed in the kingdom, and by judicious crossing has become the most valuable we possess, being a very well-formed pig throughout, with a good head, a pleasant, docile countenance, with moderate-sized drooping ears, a broad back, slightly curved, large chine and loins, with deep sides, full chest, and well covered with long thickly-set white hairs. Besides these qualities of form, he is a quick grower, feeds fast, and will easily make from 20 to 25 stone before completing his first year. The quality of the meat is also uncommonly good; the fat and lean being laid on in almost equal proportions. So capable is this species of development, both in flesh and stature, that examples of the York- shire breed have been exhibited, weighing as much as a Scotch ox. 1159. Cumberland Tiff.—Though almost every county in England can boast some local variety or other of this useful animal, obtained from the native stock by crossing with some of the foreign kinds, Cumberland and the north-west parts of the kingdom have been celebrated for a small breed of white pigs, with a thick, compact and well-made body, short in the legs, the head and back well