Children's Complaints. 1543 Oowder, or a teaspoonful of ipecacuanha, wrapping the body warmly up in flannel after the bath. The slightest delay in administering the bath, or the emetic, may be fatal; hence the importance of nurses about very young children being acquainted with the symptoms. 3466. Whooping Cough is generally preceeded by the moaning noise during sleep, which even adults threatened with the disorder cannot avoid; it is followed by violent fits of coughing, which little can be done to relieve. A child attacked by this disorder should be kept as much as possible in the fresh, pure air, but out of draughts, and kept warm, and supplied with plenty of nourishing food. Many fatal diseases flow from this scourge of childhood, and a change to purer air, if possible, should follow convalescence. 3467. Worms are the torment of some children; the synptoms are, an unnatural craving for food, even after a full meal; costiveness, suddenly followed by the reverse ; fetid breath, a livid circle under the eyes, enlarged abdomen, and picking the nose; for which the remedies must be prescribed by the doctor, but sugar preserves and green vegetables must be avoided in the diet. 3468. Chilbains are most irritating to children. The following is an in- fallible cure for unbroken chilblainsHydrochloric acid, diluted, J ounce; hydrocyanic acid, diluted, 30 drops; camphor water, 6 ounces. This chilblain lotion cures mild cases by one application. It is a deadly poison, and should be kept under lock and key. A responsible person should apply it to the feet of children. This must not be applied to broken chilblains. 3469. Measles and Scarlatina much resemble each other in their early stages: headache, restlessness, and fretfulness are the symptoms of both. Shivering fits, succeeded by a hot skin ; pains in the back and limbs, accompanied by sickness, and, in severe cases, sore throat; pain about the jaws, difficulty in swallowing, running at the eyes, which become red and inflamed, while the face is hot and flushed, often distinguish scarlatina and scarlet fever, of which it is only a mild form. While the case is doubtful, a dessert-spoonful of spirit of nitre diluted in water, given at bed-time, will throw the child into a gentle perspiration, and will bring out the rash in either case. In measles, this ap- pears first on the face ; in scarlatina, on the chest; and, in both cases, a doctor should be called in. In scarlatina, tartar-emetic powder or ipecacuanha may be administered in the meantime. 3470. Cleanliness, fresh air, clean utensils, and frequent washing of the person, both of nurse and children, are even more necessary in the nursery than in either drawing-room or sick-room, inasmuch as the delicate organs of childhood are more susceptible of injury from smells and vapours than adults. It may not be out of place if we conclude this brief notice of the duties of a nursemaid by an extract from Florence Nightingale’s admirable Notes on Nursing.” Referring to children, she says :— «They are much more susceptible than grown people to all noxious influences. They are affected by the same things, but much more quickly and seriously; by want of fresh air, of proper warmth : want of cleanliness in house, clothes, bedding, or body; by improper food, want of punctuality, by dulDess, by want of light, by too much or too little covering in bed or when up.’ And all this in health ; and then she quotes a passage from a lecture on sudden deaths in infancy, to show the importance of careful nursing of children“ In the great majority of instances, when death suddenly befalls the infant or young child it is an accident; it is not a necessary, inevitable result of any disease. That which is known to injure children most seriously is foul air ; keeping the rooms where they sleep closely shut up is destruction to them ; and, it the child’s breathing be disordered by disease, a few hours only of such foul air may endanger its life, even where no inconvenience is felt by grown-up persons in the room. * Don t treat your children like sick, she sums up; " don’t dose them with tea. Let them eat meat and drink milk, or half a glass of