1084 General Observations on Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. weighed, and as brown bread is usually made and sold as fancy bread, it is con- sumed chiefly as a luxury. 2389. When the dough is well hneaded, it is left to stand for some time, and then, as soon as it begins to swell, it is divided into loaves; after which it is again left to stand, when it once more swells up, and manifests, for the last time, the symptoms of fermentation. It is then put into the oven, where the water contained in the dough is partly evaporated, and the loaves swell up again, while a yellow crust begins to form upon the surface. When the bread is sufficiently baked, the bottom crust is hard and resonant if struck with the finger, while the crumb is elastic, and rises again after being pressed down with the finger. The bread is, in all probability, baked sufficiently if, on opening the door of the oven, you are met by a cloud of steam which quickly passes away. 2390. New Bread.—One word as to the unwholesomeness of new bread and hot rolls. When bread is taken out of the oven, it is full of moisture; the starch is held together in masses, and the bread, instead of being crusted so as to expose each grain of starch to the saliva, actually prevents their digestion by being formed by the teeth into leathery, poreless masses, which lie on the stomach like so many bullets. Bread should always be at least a day old before it is eaten ; and, if properly made, and french roll. kept in a cool dry place, ought to be perfectly soft and palatable at the end of three or four days. Hot rolls, swimming in melted butter, and new bread, ought to be carefully shunned by everybody who has the slightest respect for that much-injured individual—the stomach. 2391. BaJcing powder is largely used to vesiculate bread and cakes. The carbonic acid gas in this case is formed by the effervescence of bi-carbonate of soda with some acid, usually tartaric, but sometimes hydrochloric. Many different sorts are sold, and each differs but slightly from the other. Some are coloured yellow, and are known as egg powder; some go by the name of yeast powder; but the action of all is practically the same. A common recipe for home-made baking powder is 10 oz. of ground rice, 9 oz. of soda, 8 oz. of tartaric acid ; the rice is merely used to increase the bulk, and so to facilitate its mixing with flour. If a teaspoonful of this or any other baking powder is put in a tumbler of water it effervesces rapidly, presently the effervescence subsides, and there remains water with the rice undissolved and some tartrate of soda. Just in the same way it effervesces in a cake or in dough, which is bubbled up exactly as the water was. As the water soon subsided so will the dough, the gas escapes, and there remains flour, water and tartrate of soda settled down into a solid mass. That is what happens if baking powder bread or pastry is not baked at once. The whole value of the f owder is lost. But if it is put in the oven while the gas is held in the dough, it rises still further, because gas or air always expands with heat, and long before the gas escapes it is baked into shape with all the bubbles in it, and we say it is light. It is not a good word, for whether a loaf is “ light ’’ or “ heavy ” it weighs the same, except in so far as it may be too wet if it is not enough baked, the difference is in size and relative weight of the two, not in actual weight. A 11 light ’’ loaf is puffed up to look bigger. Therefore, everything containing baking-powder should be baked as soon as possible after it is wetted ; the rule applies to all sorts of baking-powder pastry and cakes as well as to bread. • Another rule is to use the coldest water and to mix it in a cold place. We have seen that the rising of a loaf in the oven depends on the sudden expansion by TWIST.