Prescription. 1631 When a tree undoubtedly belongs to one parcel of land and the branches, penetrate or overhang the adjoining land, the owner of the adjoining land is entitled to cut away so much of the roots and lop off all the branches that penetrate or overhang his land. But the cuttings and loppings belong to the owner of the tree, as do the fruits growing on the overhanging branches. In such cases, when the branches are cut and fall, or when fruit falls on adjoining land, the owner's course is to request permission to recover the loppings or fruit. If permission is refused he is then entitled to go on to his neighbour’s land, and to recover his property without permission. If a tree of A.’s is blown down so as to fall partially in the premises of B., then B. may remove the tree upon A. refusing to do so, or A. may proceed upon the premises of B. to recover the tree, if he cannot otherwise recover it. 3716. Windows.—Every builder of a house is entitled to put windows in it wherever he pleases; but if he puts windows so as to overlook the adjoining land of another, the owner of that land is immediately entitled to build or to erect any obstruction he pleases, so as to block up or obscure the light, or diminish the prospect of such windows, and such right continues until the windows have be- come " ancient lights ” by prescription. But, if a man builds a house and sells it, and some of the windows so sold overlook other land belonging to the builder of the house, he must not block up such windows, nor obstruct their prospect by any building or erection nearer than the width of a good road. 3717. Prescription.—Right by prescription is created by the existence of anything for twenty years. It applies especially to the carrying on of an objec- tionable trade process, to the right of way, to the position of fences concerning which there may otherwise be doubt, and to windows. A trade that has been carried on in the same manner for twenty years cannot be stopped, however offensive, unless the local authorities possess the power of suppression under the Nuisances Removal Acts. Where a road or path is in habitual use, the owner of the land must submit to its use by all comers, if it has been so used for twenty years or more, though (as in the case of some field paths) the right may be a serious injury to the value of the land. If a fence has been placed in error so as not to indicate the true boundary of the land of the owner, and it be suffered to remain unaltered for twenty years, the right of adjusting the boundary ceases. If a window, originally liable to be obstructed, remains unobstructed for twenty years, the right of building or other obstruction by the adjoining owner is totally destroyed. But a window in one part of a wall does not create prescription for the remainder of the wall, which may be built up to any time, unless such build- ing seriously obstructs the light of the ancient window, and such window must not be pulled down and rebuilt in a new position, or the prescription may be pre- vented or destroyed. Prevention of prescription may be effected by anyone interested, any time within nineteen years, but not later, because the rule as to lapse will not have time to apply. Thus, a way that has been open less than nineteen years may be stopped by the owner of the land, unless he has, by selling some of the land or otherwise, granted aright of way which he cannot recall. The owner of a mis- placed fence may pull it down and re-erect it in its proper place, if the work be com- pleted within the nineteen years after its first erection. The owner of land over- looked- by windows may obstruct the light or prospect of such windows any time within nineteen years after their first construction, and, in each case, the prescription is for ever prevented. Lapse of prescription is effected by suffering it to be disregarded for twelve