648 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. stances, for two years longer; after which she will decline. Crowing hens, and those that have large combs, are generally looked on with mistrust; but this is mere silliness and superstition— though it is possible that a spruce young cock would as much object to a spouse with such peculiar addictions, as a young fellow of our own species would to a damsel who whistled and who wore whiskers. Fowls with yellow legs should be avoided ; they are generally of a tender constitution, loose-fleshed, and of indifferent flavour. 1349.—FRICASSEE OF FOWL. (Fr.—Fricassee de Poulet.) (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.— 1 large chicken, I lemon, 1 oz. of butter, x onion, a bunch of parsley, 1 tablespoonful of flour, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, £ pint of stock, No. 274, yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Cut the fowl into neat joints ; throw them into boiling salted water for 2 or 3 minutes, then take out and rub each piece with a lemon cut in half. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and seasoning, and the stock and vegetables. Stir these ingredients till they boil, then put in the pieces of fowl and stew gently. When done, remove the onion and parsley, lay the pieces of fowl neatly on a dish; beat the yolks of eggs with the juice of a lemon, and stir them into the sauce, off the fire, then pour the sauce over the fowl. Time.—£ hour for a young fowl. Average Cost, 4s. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1350.—FRICASSEED FOWL. (Fr.-Fricassee de Poulet.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of flour, £ pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Carve the fowls into nice joints ; make gravy of the trimmings and legs, by stewing them with the lemon-peel, mace, herbs, onion, season- ing and water, until reduced to half a pint; then strain, and put in the fowl. Warm it through, and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour; stir the yolks of the eggs into the cream ; add these to the sauce, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Serve this dressed in a circle round the dish, and fill up the centre with any dressed vegetable. Time.—1 hour to make the gravy; £ hour to warm the fowl. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold chicken, 7 d. Seasonable at any time. Characteristics of Health and Power.—The chief characteristics of health in a fowl are brightness and dryness of eye and nostrils, the comb and wattles firm and ruddy, the feathers