Sage and Onion Stuffing. 299 cook, who should study her employer’s taste in this, as in every other respect. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for a small turkey. 638.—SAGE-AND-0NION STUFFING. (Fr.—Farce au Sauge et aux Oignons.) (For Geese, Ducks and Pork.) Ingredients.—4 large onions, 10 sage-leaves, J lb. of bread-crumbs, i£ oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. Mode.—Peel the onions, put them into boiling water, let them simmer for 5 minutes or rather longer, and, just before they are taken out, put in the sage-leaves for a minute or two to take off their rawness. Chop both these very fine, add the bread, seasoning and butter, and work the whole together with the yolk of an egg, when the stuffing will be ready for use. It should be rather highly seasoned, and the sage-leaves should be very finely chopped. Many cooks do not parboil the onions in the manner just stated, but merely use them raw. The stuffing then, however, is not nearly so mild, and, to many tastes, its strong flavour would be very objectionable. When made for goose, a portion of the liver of the bird, simmered for a few minutes and very finely minced, is frequently added to this stuffing ; and where economy is studied, the egg and butter may be dispensed with. Time.—Rather more than 5 minutes to simmer the onions. Average Cost, for this quantity, 4d. Sufficient for 1 goose, or a pair of ducks. 639-—SOYER’S RECIPE FOR GOOSE STUFFING. Mode.—Take 4 apples, peeled and cored, 4 onions, 4 leaves of sage, and 4 leaves of lemon thyme not broken, and boil them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them ; when done, pulp them through a sieve, removing the sage and thyme ; then add sufficient pulp of mealy potatoes to cause it to be sufficiently dry, without sticking to the hand; add pepper and salt, and stuff the bird. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SAUCES. 640. A.n anecdote is told of the Prince de Soubise, who, intending to give an entertainment, asked for the bill of fare. His chej came, presenting a list adorned with vignettes, and the first article of which, that met the prince s eye, was “ fifty hams.” " Bertrand,” said the prince, “ I think you must bs