386 Recipes for Cooking Beef. over the bottom of it; on this place layers of beef in thin slices (this may be minced if there is not sufficient beef to cut into slices), well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a very little onion and herbs, which should be previously fried of a nice brown ; then put another layer of mashed potatoes, and beef, and other ingredients, as before ; pour in the gravy or sauce, cover the whole with another layer of potatoes, and bake for half an hour. This may be served in the dish, or turned out. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold beef, 6d. Sufficient.—A large pie-dish full for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Beef.—The quality of beef depends on various circumstances: such as the age, the sex, the breed of the animal, and also on the food upon which it has been raised. Bull beef is, in general, dry and tough, and by no means possessed of an agreeable flavour; whilst the flesh of the ox is not only highly nourishing and digestible, but, if not too old, extremely agreeable. The flesh of the cow is, also, nourishing, but it is not so agreeable as that of the ox, although that of a heifer is held in high estimation. The flesh of the smaller breeds is much sweeter than that of the larger, which is best when the animal is about seven years old, but beef now-a-days is seldom or never kept so long. That of the smaller breeds is best at about five years, and that of the cow can hardly be eaten too young. 865.—BAKED BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Ingredients.—6 oz. of flour, 2 eggs, not quite 1 pint of milk, salt to taste, i| lb. of steak, 1 kidney, pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the steak into nice square pieces, with a small quantity of fat, and the kidney divided into small pieces. Make a batter of flour, eggs and milk in the above proportion; lay a little of it at the bottom of a pie-dish; then put in the steak and kidney, which should be well sea- soned with pepper and salt, and pour over the remainder of the batter, and bake for i£ hour in a brisk, but not fierce, oven. Time.—i| hour. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 866.—BEEF A LA MODE. (Fr.—Bceuf a la Mode.) {Excellent.) Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of clod or flank of beef, 2 oz. of clarified dripping, 1 large onion, flour, 2 quarts of water, 12 berries of allspice, 2 bay-leaves, \ teaspoonful of whole black pepper, salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the beef into small pieces, and roll them in flour ; put the dripping into a stew-pan with the onion, which should be sliced thin. Let it get quite hot ; lay in the pieces of beef, and stir them well about. When nicely browned all over, add by degrees boiling water in the above proportion, and, as the water is added, keep the whole well stirred. Put in the spice, bay-leaves, and seasoning, cover the stewnan closely, and