343 Poivrade Sauce. Mode.—Separate the yolks from the whites of three eggs, and put the former into a stewpan ; add the sugar, milk and grated lemon-rind, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens ; but do not allow it to boil. Put in the brandy ; let the sauce stand by the side of the fire, to get quite hot; keep stirring it, and serve in a boat or tureen separately, or pour it over the pudding. Time.—Altogether io minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 758.—POIVRADE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Poivrade.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of ham, 1 oz. of butter, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay- leaf, 1 sprig of sweet basil, 1 of thyme, two cloves, 4 young onions, £ pint of consomme, No. 276; 1 oz. of celery, 1 pinch of pepper and cayenne (where liked); 3 sprays of parsley, wineglassful of tarragon vinegar. Mode.—Cut the ham into small pieces, and fry it in the butter, with the parsley, onions, garlic, bay-leaf, basil, thyme and cloves. When well fried over a quick fire, add the cayenne, sliced celery and pepper, vinegar and consomme, No. 276; let all simmer gently half an hour. Strain through a tammy and serve. Time.—5 hour to simmer. Average Cost, is. for this quantity. 759-—QUIN’S SAUCE. (A n excellent Fish Sauce.) Ingredients.—£ pint of walnut pickle, £ pint of port, 1 pint of mush- room ketchup, 1 dozen anchovies, 1 dozen shalots, £ pint of soy, £ tea- spoonful of cayenne. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, having previously chopped the shalots and anchovies very small; simmer for fifteen minutes, strain, and, when cold, bottle off for use ; the corks should be well sealed, to exclude the air. Time.—£ of an hour. Seasonable at any time. 760.—RASPBERRY SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Framboises.) (For Simple Puddings.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 pint of fresh raspberry juice. Mode.—Beat the eggs well, and smooth the flour with a little water; then put all into a saucepan; add the sugar and raspberry juice. Put