Poisons. 1595 needles run through the skin cross-wise, passing beneath the wound, and a piece of linen thread tied round them, will frequently answer when the simpler means fail. After Tooth Extraction. — Treatment. — Press a small crystal of iron alum into the cavity left by the removal of the tooth, and bleeding will generally be checked. After Confinement—Treatment.—Keep the patient at absolute rest on her back, and remove the pillows so as to keep her head low; cover very lightly with bed- clothes. Place the hands on the lower part of the belly, and press deeply down with a kind of kneading motion. If the womb is felt contracting into a hard lump under the hands, grasp it and keep it tight till the arrival of the doctor. Give a little tepid milk and water. From the Umbilical Cord.—When bleeding takes place from the umbilical cord, the child generally becomes restless, and blood may saturate its clothing. Treatment.—Undress the child immediately, and tie a ligature of three or four thicknesses of worsted or linen thread behind the other. Internal Bleeding.—Instances of this form of bleeding are seen in hemorrhage from the lungs and stomach. That from the lungs is generally bright scarlet in colour and frothy in appearance, owing to the admixture of air ; that from the stomach is dark in colour, and is not frothy. Treatment.— Keep the apart- ment cool and the patient quiet in the recumbent posture. Ice may be given, or cold water when ice cannot be had. Five to ten grains of gallic acid may be given along with ten or fifteen drops of aromatic sulphuric acid every three or four hours. 3583. Hysteria.—This may manifest itself by intense sobbing or immode- rate laughter, or these may alternate with one another. There is frequently wild tossing about of the arms, the hair is dishevelled, the face is generally pale and complaint is made of a suffocating feeling in the throat. Treatment.—The patient must be spoken to kindly, yet firmly, and be told to stop any eccentricities. Loosen the dress and remove anything tight from the neck. Give a teaspoonful of spirit of sal volatile in water. If no heed is taken in regard to what is said, dash cold water upon the face. 3584. Intoxication. — Treatment. — When loss of consciousness has occurred from this cause, give an emetic of mustard and water (a tablespoonful in tepid water) or twenty grains of sulphate of zinc or powdered ipecacuanha. Remove to a warm atmosphere and give strong tea or coffee. 3585. Poisons.—Treatment.—Many of these give rise to vomiting and are thus got rid of. In such cases the vomiting should be encouraged by giving draughts of tepid water. An instrument that may be used with much benefit, if it is at hand, is the stomach syphon—easier to use a good deal than the stomach pump— by which the poison may be got rid of. Care must be taken to pass the tube along the back of the throat, as, otherwise, harm may result. If the poison has not given rise to vomiting, a handful of salt in lukewarm water may be given and draughts of tepid water aftferwards. Mustard is a good emetic when the poison taken is not irritant in character. Twenty grains of powdered ipecacuanha or the same quantity of sulphate of zinc may be used in the same way. General Directions.—When an alkali is the poison, give weak vinegar, chalk and water, whiting, plaster from the waIJs. When an acid, give white of egg or milk; if a narcotic, give strong coffee and do everything to keep the patient awake.