14, Neck; 15, Shin. Mode of Cutting up Beef. 3&3 ready sale in the poorest quarters. The food known as “ faggots,” is made of the liver and lights of sheep and bullocks, mixed with some fat. (24.) Lights, or Lungs.—Only eaten by the very poor, and in some parts is not sold as human food. (25.) Kidneys.—For puddings, pies, or stewing. They are cheaper and less delicate than the kidneys of young animals, and are always difficult of di- gestion. Kidney needs thorough but light cooking, as when it is exposed to a high temperature it dries up and becomes tasteless and horny. (26.) Tripe.— Sold partially cleaned by the tripe dressers. Is said to be the most digestible of meats, and specially suited for invalids, although rather fat. Sometimes served as an entree. It con- sists of the paunch or ruminant stomach of the ox. “ Blanket tripe,” “ honeycomb tripe,” and “book tripe’’ are popular names derived from its conformation. (27.) Sweetbread.— Coarse, and needs long and careful cooking. The pancreas of the ox, often substituted for the thymus gland of the calf. If sold for what it is may be served with advantage. (28.) Suet. —The inside fat. That which surrounds the kidneys is the firmest and best for all purposes, es- pecially for puddings, but at Christmas time any pieces of white fat are sold in its stead. (29.) Spleen, or Milt, of bullock, sheep and pig is sold for food. It is generally stuffed and roasted, or stewed, or boiled for stock. It is not possible to lay down any exact precept as to the relative cheapness of each joint of meat. The joint itself varies, the prices vary, the tastes of eaters vary, perhaps, most of all. But by way of a rough calculation the follow- ing may be offered :— Rumpsteak, beefsteak and bullock’s liver are all three without any bone. Spend one shilling and you will get 2 lbs. of liver, 1 lb. of beefsteak, or 12 ozs. of rumpsteak. Of shin of beef cut without bone a shilling buys iglb., and of the so.\d roasting joint cut from the shoulder about 1 lb. 3 ozs. Among these are the cheapest of animal food. Rumpsteak is the only one that can never be recom- mended for economy. The shin of beef is only capable of good results in the hands of a good and patient cook. Ribs of beef cost a little less than beefsteak per lb., but then there are 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. ot bone in each shilling’s-worth, besides a good deal of fat. The shoulder costs less than the ribs, and nas no bone. SIDE OF BEEF, SHOWING THE SEVERAL JOINTS. I, Sirloin ; 2, Rump ; 3, Aitchbone ; 4, Buttock; 5, Round ; 6, Hock ; 7, Thick Flank ; 8, Thin Flank; 9, Five Ribs ; 10, Four Ribs; ii. Two Ribs ; 12 Leg of Mutton Piece ; 13, Brisket;