856 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 1819.—AMERICAN RECIPE FOR MINCEMEAT. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of fresh beef tongue (boiled), 1 lb. of beef suet, 1 lb. of candied citron, 2 lbs. each of stoned raisins, sugar and washed and dried currants, 4 lemons (using grated rind only), £ oz. of ground allspice, 1 oz. of nutmegs, £ oz. each of ground cinnamon, salt, and ground cloves, 1 tablespoonful of black pepper, 3 pints of brandy, 1 pint of sherry, 3 lbs. of chopped apples, 1 pint of sweet cider. Mode.—Mix well the tongue, chopped till as fine as powder, suet, raisins, currants and citron. All these must be chopped very fine, sepa- rately, and then mixed thoroughly. Add all the other ingredients except the cider and apples. Put up in covered jars for three days before using. Add the apples and cider when making pies. Average Cost, for this quantity, 13s. Seasonable.—Make it in November. 1820.—EXCELLENT MINCEMEAT. Ingredients.—3 large lemons, 3 large apples, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, £ lb. of currants, 1 lb. of suet, 2 lbs. of moist sugar, 1 oz. of sliced candied citron, 1 oz. of sliced candied orange-peel, and the same quantity of lemon-peel, 1 teacupful of brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of orange marmalade. Mode.—Grate the rinds of the lemons ; squeeze out the juice, strain it, and boil the remainder of the lemons until tender enough to pulp or chop very finely. Then add to this pulp the apples, which should be baked, and their skins and cores removed ; put in the remaining ingre- dients one by one, and as they are added, mix everything very thoroughly together. Put the mincemeat into a stone jar with a closely fitting lid, and in a fortnight it will be ready for use. Unless it is liked very bitter, all or a part of the pith of the lemon should be omitted. Average Cost, is. per lb. Seasonable.—This should be made the first or second week in December. 1821.—MINCE PIES. Ingredients.—Good puff-paste, No. 1674, mincemeat, No. 1820. Mode.—Make some good puff-paste by recipe No. 1674, roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and line some good-sized patty-pans with it; fill them with mince- meat, cover with the paste, and cut it off all round close to the edge of the tin. Put the pies into a brisk oven to draw the paste up, and bake for 25 mince pies. minutes, or longer, should the pies be very large ; brush them over with the white of an egg beaten with the blade of a knife