!2gS General Observations on Italian Cookery. in France, sometimes with vegetables, sometimes without. Occasionally the vegetables so predominate, that they are handed round in a separate dish. A soup in such constant use that it may be called a national one is the Minestrone or “large, thick soup.” It consists of vegetables stewed together for many hours, with the addition of a piece of fat bacon, and thickened with rice. Maca- roni is entirely absent from it, but not so Parmesan cheese, which is thickly strewn over each individual plateful. Italians enjoy this dish to their heart’s content, often stroking their chests after partaking of it, with an expression of placid contentment in their looks. In fact, Italians of the middle class talk a good deal about their food, whilst we enjoy it in silence. 2951. Joints of meat are cut smaller than in England, and a necessity, as a garnish to many of them, as well as to ragouts or stews of every kind, are olives. Not the large, coarsish olive, like that of Spain, but the delicate, green-brown olive so abundant in the country, and so enticing and luscious in its flavour. Olives turn up everywhere ; they are eaten in large quantities as hors-d'ceuvre, also at the end of a repast, with wine, and children may be seen eating them with a piece of bread in the streets. The Italians have the most delicate way of preparing cutlets. Veal cutlets are in especial favour, and are certainly most attractive in their coat of pale bread-crumbs, garnished with slices of lemon. 2952. Maccheroni, or Spaghetti, a smaller kind of macaroni, suffi. cient for the dinner of an ordinary mortal, generally follows the soup. It is as a rule served up with tomato sauce, and Parmesan cheese thickly scattered ovev it. Parmesan finds its way into almost every dish, in the preparation of whicl it has not been already used. To an English palate it is not indiscriminately pleasing. Most of us would possibly prefer its absence in many kinds of soup. Macaroni is much eaten as a sweet. Simply boiled in water, and whilst smoking hot, a quantity of soft cream cheese—Ricotta—is poured over it, and melting upon the smoking mass, thoroughly permeates it, flavouring the macaroni most deliciously. 2953. Ricotta, as well as macaroni, and Risotto, a rice porridge, may be called a really national dish, as it makes its appearance daily on Italian tables, and is inexpensive as well as most nutritious. It is frequently made from the milk of the buffalo, this animal abounding in the Campagna and other parts of Italy. The milk is of the purest white, and the butter very good, although, perhaps, not quite equal in delicacy to that of the cow. The butter of Italy finds its way in such quantity to London and other of our larger towns, that its delicate primrose colour, and rich, pure flavour need but little description. As to the cheese, Parmesan is no stranger to us in name, although it is but little used in plain cookery, and Gorgonzola has become quite a favourite amongst us, if we may judge by the quantity cf it to be met with in our shops. 2954. Sausage making in Italy is brought to the same degree of excellence as the German Wurst or French Pdte in its variety and delicacy. The sausage of Bologna—which town may be said to be both the Bayonne and Bordeaux of France—is well known to us, as well as the delicate, spiced, flat sausages—Mortadella—imported in slices in tin boxes to this country. Italian bread is light and pleasant to the taste, and the many kinds of rolls and cakes are artistically shaped. Besides simple sweets, many are of a very refined character ; puddings of every description, souffles and omelettes, savoury and sweet, cakes thickly overlaid with preserve, macaroons, ratafias, every sort of delicious light paste and pasticcini—small cakes—ar.d the airy cialde—gauffre, the introduction of which in London by an Italian was the stepping stone to his becoming the owner of a theatre and other large property.