1144 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. Mode.—Mix these and bake in a quick oven. While baking, take a pint and a half of strawberries ; mash them fine. When the cake is baked, split in two, and butter each part. Put on a layer of sugar, then strawberries, then sugar, then the top of cake, and serve immediately. Time.—io to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. Seasonable in June and July. 2542.—TEA-CAKES. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 4 teaspoonful of salt, 4 lb. of butter or lard, 1 egg, a piece of German yeast the size of a walnut, warm milk. Mode.—Put the flour (which should be perfectly dry) into a basin, mix with it the salt, and rub in the butter or lard ; then beat the egg well, stir to it the yeast, and add these to the flour with as much warm milk as will make the whole into a smooth paste, and knead it well, Let it rise near the fire, and, when well risen, form it into cakes; place them on tins, let them rise again for a few minutes before putting them into the oven, and bake from a quarter to half an hour in a moderate oven. These are very nice with a few currants and a little sugar added to the other ingredients; they should be put in after the butter is rubbed in. These cakes should be buttered, and eaten hot as soon as baked; but, when stale, they are very nice split and toasted ; or, if dipped in milk, or even water, and covered with a basin in the oven till hot, they will be almost equal to new. Time.—J to 4 hour. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient to make 8 tea-cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2543.—SMALL TEA-CAKES. Ingredients.— 2 teacupfuls of flour, I of ground rice, 14 of moist sugar, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of lard or dripping, 2 eggs, lemon to taste. Mode.—Melt the butter and lard, beat well, and add it to the flour and rice ; then the eggs and sugar, well beating them. Mix, and bake on a tin in a quick oven. Time.—15 minutes. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 12 or 14 small tea-cakes. Seasonable at any time, 2544.—TO TOAST TEA CAKES. Mode.—Cut each tea-cake into three or four slices, according to its thickness ; toast them on both s.ides before a nice clear fire, and as each TEA-CAKES. STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE.