Vegetable Soups 167 and simmer one hour, serve in a tureen with slices of bread and butter which have been dried and browned in the oven. Time.—i4 hours. Average Cost, 2s. for this quantity. Seasonable from May to August. Sufficient for 8 persons. 34r—VEGETABLE SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe Maigre.) (Good and Cheap, made without Meat.) Ingredients.—6 potatoes, 4 turnips, or 2 if very large; 2 carrots, 2 onions ; if obtainable, 2 mushrooms ; 1 head of celery, 1 large slice of bread, 1 small saltspoonful of salt, 4 saltspoonful of ground black pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce, 6 quarts of water. Mode. Peel the vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces ; toast the bread rather brown, and put all into a stewpan with the water and seasoning. Simmer gently for 3 hours, or until all is reduced to a pulp, and pass it through a sieve in the same way as pea-soup, which it should resemble in consistence ; but it should be a dark-brown colour. Boil it again for 10 minutes; put in the Harvey’s sauce, and, if necessary, add to the flavouring. Time.—3 hours, or rather more. Average Cost, id. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 16 persons. 342—EXCELLENT VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients.—1 pint Egyptian lentils, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 oz. of butter, 1 lump of sugar, pepper, salt, 3 pints of water. Mode.—Wash the lentils thoroughly, and let them drain. Cut up the vegetables and fry them a nice brown in a stewpan with the butter. Put ih the lentils and add a quart of cold water. Boil until the lentils are per- fectly tender, about three hours. Then add a pint of water and rub all through a tammy. Return to the stewpan, put in the seasoning, ketchup and a small lump of sugar, boil for a 4 of an hour, then serve. Time—About 4 hours. Average Cost,'41/. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but especially in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. 343- VERMICELLI SOUP. (Fr.—Potage Vermicelle.) Ingredients. 1^- lb. of bacon; ^ oz. of butter, worked up in flour • 1 small fowl, trussed for boiling; 2 oz. of vermicelli; 2 quarts of white' stock, No. 275.