1522 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. 3392.—TO RESTORE CRAPE WHEN SPOTTED. Black crape when wetted by rain is almost certain to spot. When this is the case, lay the crape—whether a veil or piece of trimming—on a table, and place a piece of old black silk underneath the stains; then dip a soft camel-hair brush in black ink and carefully paint the stains over with it: gently wipe off with a piece of silk the superabundant ink, and the stains, as the places dry, will disappear. 3393-—TO REVIVE BLACK LACE. Make some black tea about the strength usual for drinking and strain it off the leaves. Pour enough tea into a basin to cover the quantity of lace, let it stand ten or twelve hours, then squeeze it several times, but do not rub it. Dip it frequently into the tea, which will at length assume a dirty appearance. Have ready some weak gum-water and press the lace gently through it; then clap it for a quarter of an hour ; after which, pin it to a towel in any shape which you wish it to take. When nearly dry, cover it with another towel and iron it with a cool iron. The lace, if pre- viously sound and discoloured only, will after this process look as good as new. 3394—TO REVIVE BLACK LACE. (Another Recipe.) Wash the lace thoroughly in some good beer; use no gum-water; clap the lace well, and proceed with ironing and drying, as in the former recipe. 3395—TO CLEAN JEWELLERY. Jewels are generally wrapped up in cotton and kept in their cases; but they are subject to tarnish from exposure to the air and require cleaning. This is done by preparing clean soap-suds and using fine toilet-soap. Dip any article of gold, silver, gilt or precious stones into this lye, and dry them by brushing with a brush of soft badgers’hair, or a fine sponge; after- wards with a piece of fine cloth, and lastly, with a soft leather. Gold or silver ornaments, and in general, all articles of jewellery, may be dressed by dipping them in spirits of wine warmed in a bain marie, or shallow kettle, placed over a slow fire or hot plate. Silver ornaments should be kept in fine arrowroot, and completely covered with it. 3396.-TO TAKE STAINS FROM SILK. Mix together in a phial 2 oz. of essence of lemon and 1 oz. of oil of turpentine. Grease and other spots in silks are to be rubbed gently with a linen rag dipped in tbig mixture.