1479 House-work in Summer. housemaid’s box. tin pail, with a wire sifter inside, and a closely-fitting top. In this pail the cinders are sifted, and reserved for use in the kitchen or under the copper, the ashes only being thrown away. The cinders disposed of, she proceeds to black-lead the grate, producing the black lead, the soft brush for laying it on, her blacking and polishing brushes, from the box which contains her tools. The housemaid’s box should be kept well stocked. Having blackened, brushed and polished every part, and made all clean and bright, she now proceeds to lay the fire. Sometimes it is very difficult to get a proper polish to black grates, particularly if they have been neg- lected and allowed to rust at all. But later on we give recipes for treating them that will be found useful. Bright grates require unceasing attention to keep them in perfect order. A day should never pass without the housemaid rubbing with a dry leather the polished parts of a grate, as also the fender and fire-irons. A careful and attentive housemaid should have no occasion ever to use emery-paper for any part but the bars, which of course, become blacked by the fire. (Some mistresses, to save labour, have a double set of bars, one set bright for the summer, and another black set to use when fires are in requisition.) The several fires lighted the housemaid proceeds with her dusting, and polish- ing the several pieces of furniture in the breakfast-parlour, leaving no corner unvisited. Before sweeping the carpet, it is a good practice to sprinkle it all over with tea-leaves, which not only lay all dust, but give a slightly fragrant smell to the room. It is now in order for the reception of the family, and where there is neither footman or parlour-maid, she now proceeds to the dressing-room, and lights her mistress’s fire, if she is in the habit of having one to dress by. Her mistress is called, hot water placed in the dressing-room for her use, her clothes—as far as they are under the housemaid’s charge—put before the fire, hanging a fire-guard on the bars where there is one. while she proceeds to prepare the breakfast. CINDER ROCKER, WITH LOOSE TRAV. 3278. The housemaid’s work in summer is considerably abridged : she throws open the windows in the several rooms not occupied as bed- rooms, that they may receive the fresh morning air before they are occupied ; she prepares the breakfast-room by sweeping the carpet, rubbing tables and chairs, dusting mantel-shelf and picture-frames with a light brush, dusting the furniture and sweeping the rug; she cleans the grate when necessary, and re-arranges the ornaments with which it is filled when necessary, leaving everything clean and tidy for breakfast. It is not enough, however, in cleaning furniture, just to pass lightly over the surface ; the rims and legs of tables, and the backs and legs of chairs and sofas, should be rubbed vigorously daily ; if there is a bookcase, every corner of every pane and ledge requires to be care- fully wiped, so that not a speck of dust can be found in the room.