176 Recipes for Soups. 362.—MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe ae I’lnde.) Ingredients.—2 pints of stock, No. 273, 3 onions, 1 stick of rhubarb, 1 oz. of bacon, 1 oz. of butter,'2 oz. of flour, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, £ tablespoonful of curry paste, a bunch of herbs, 1 carrot, £ turnip, salt, cayenne, juice of £ lemon. Mode.—Melt the butter and fry bacon in it a few minutes, prepare the vegetables and fry them in the butter, shake in the flour, curry powder, and paste, fry these altogether a few minutes, then add the stock ; allow this to boil, skim it thoroughly, add the seasonings and simmer 1 hour. Pass through a tammy sieve when hot, add the lemon juice and some small pieces of cooked white meat or fowl. Boiled rice should be handed nth the soup. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost for this quantity, is. 2d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 persons. 363.—MULLIGATAWNY SOUP MADE WITH AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Ingredients.—A 2 lb. tin of Australian mutton, 1 oz. of bacon either cooked or uncooked, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, a bunch of herbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 oz of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, pepper, £ a teaspoonful of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and either a sour apple or two, or a stick of rhubarb. Mode.—Put 2 quarts of warm water into a basin, and having taken off some of the fat from the meat, turn it into it. Put 2 oz. of the fat with the bacon into a saucepan, and when the fat has melted, put in the onions sliced, and frizzle for a few minutes; then the other vegetables and herbs, and shake in with them the flour and curry powder, and fry a few more minutes, then add the stock and stir till it boils and thickens thoroughly, well skim and add the seasoning and lemon juice. Allow all to boil till the vegetables are well cooked, then rub the soup through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 9d. per quart. Seasonable in Autumn and Winter. 364.—MUTTON BROTH. {Fr.—Bouillon de Mouton.) Ingredients.—3 lbs. of scrag of mutton, 1 carrot, £ turnip, 1 onion, little celery, 1 leek, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 3 oz. of rice or pearl barley. Mode.—Cut the mutton into joints, trim and wash the dirty pieces, put the meat into a saucepan and pour over it 5 pints of water. Very carefully skim off the scum as it rises, then add the salt, and simmer