376 General Observations on Quadrupeds. auditory-holes. The most defenceless animals are extremely delicate in the sense of hearing, as are likewise most beasts of prey. Most of the mam- miferous animals walk on four feet, which, at the extremities, are usually divided into toes or fingers. In some, however, the feet end in a single corneous substance called a hoof. The toes of a few end in broad, flat nails, and of most others in pointed claws. Some, again, have the toes connected by a membrane, which is adapted to those that are destined to pass a con- siderable portion of their lives in water. Others, again, as in the Bat, have the digitations of the anterior feet greatly elongated, the intervening space being filled by a membrane, which extends round the hinder legs and tail, and by means of which they are enabled to rise into the air. In Man, the hand alone comprises fingers separate, free and flexible ; but Apes and some other kinds of Animals, have fingers both to the hands and feet. These, therefore, are the only animals that can hold moveable objects in a single hand. Others, such as Rats and Squirrels, have the fingers sufficiently small and flexible to enable them to pick up objects ; but they are compelled to hold them in both hands. Others, again, have the toes shorter, and must rest on the fore-feet, as is the case with dogs and cats when they want to hold a substance firmly on the ground with their paws. There are still others that have their toes united and drawn under the skin, or enveloped in corneous hoofs, and are thereby enabled to exercise no prehensible power whatever. 850. According to the Design and End of Nature, mammiferous animals are calculated, when arrived at maturity, to subsist on various kinds of food—some to live wholly upon flesh, other upon grain, herbs or fruits; but in their infant state, milk is the appropriate food of the whole. That this food may never fail them, it is universally ordained that the young should no sooner come into the world than the milk should flow in abundance into the members with which the mother is supplied for the secretion of that nutritious fluid. By a wonderful instinct of Nature, too, the young animal, almost as soon as it has come into life, searches for the teat, and knows perfectly at the first, how, by the process of suction, it will be able to extract the fluid necessary to its existence. In the general economy of Nature, this class of animals seems destined to preserve a constant equilibrium in the number of animated beings that hold their existence on the surface of the earth. To man they are imme- diately useful in various ways. Some of their bodies afford him food, their skin shoes, and their fleece clothes. Some of them unite with him in participating the dangers of combat with an enemy, and others assist him in the chase, in exterminating wilder sorts, or banishing them from the haunts of civilisation. Many, indeed, are injurious to him ; but most of them, in some shape or other, he turns to his service. Of these there is none he has made more subservient to his purposes than the common ox, of which there is scarcely a part that he has not been able to convert into some useful purpose. Of the horns he makes drinking-vessels, kmfe-handles, combs and boxes; and when they are softened by means of boiling water, he fashions them into transparent plates for lanterns, &c. This invention is ascribed to King Alfred, who is said to have been the first to use them to preserve his candle time-measures from the wind. Glue and gelatine is made of the cartilages, gristles and the finer pieces of the parings and cuttings of the hides. Their bone is a cheap substitute for ivory. The thinnest of the calf-skins are manufactured into vellum. Their blood is made the basis oi Prussian blue, and saddlers use a fine sort of thread prepared from their sinews The hair is used in various valuable manufactures; the suet, fat and tallow are moulded into candles ; and the milk and cream of the cow yield butter anc cheese Thus is every part of this animal vuluable to man, who has spared nc pains to bring it to the highest state of perfection. •iati fll jife I Me j (Jill oite stu te