Anchovy Sauce. Brown sauces, generally speaking, should scarcely fat) so thick ac white sauces; nd it is well to bear in mind that all those which are intended to mask the vanous dishes of poultry or meat, should be of a sufficient consistency to siigntly adhere to the fowls or joints over which they are poured. For a thin sauce a dessertspoonful of flour to half a pint of water is enough. For a thicker sauce a tablespoonful to half a pint; and if the sauce is to adhere completely, a a espoonful to a quarter of a pint. For browning and thickening sauces, &c., browned flour may be properly employed. 664. Sauces should possess a decided character: and whether sharp or sweet, savoury or plain, they should carry out their names in a distinct manner, although, of course, not so much flavoured as to make them too piquant on the one hand, or too mawkish on the other. 655. Gravies and sauces should be sent to table very hot; and there is all the more necessity for the cook to see to this point as from their being usually served in small quantities, they are more liable to cool quic'y t an if they were in a larger body. If made before the moment of serving they should be kept hot in a saucepan of boiling water. A fish-kettle makes a good improvised bain marie. 656.-ANCHOVY SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Beurre d’Anchois.) (For Fish.) Ingredients.—4 anchovies, I oz. of butter, A pint of melted butter, cayenne to taste. A little carmine or cochineal. IVTode. Bone the anchovies, and pound them in a mortar to paste with 1 oz. of butter. Make the melted butter hot, stir in the pounded anchovies and cayenne; simmer for 3 or 4 minutes; and, if liked, add a squeeze of lemon-juice and a few drops of colouring. A more general and expeditious way of making this sauce is to stir in one and a half table- spoonfuls of anchovy essence to half a pint of melted butter, and to add seasoning to taste. Boil the whole up for 1 minute, and serve hot. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, 5d. for a pint. Sufficient, this quantity, for a brill, small turbot, 3 or 4 soles, &c. Cayenne. (Fr.—Poivre de Cayenne.)—This is the most acrid and stimulating spice with whiGh we are acquainted. It is a powder prepared from several varieties of the Capsicum, annual East India plants, of which there are three so far naturalised in this country as to be able to grow in the open air: these are the Guinea, the Cherry and the Bell Pepper. All the pods of these are extremely pungent to the taste, and in the green state are used by us as a pickle. When ripe, they are ground into cayenne pepper, and sold as a condiment. The best of this, however, is made in the West Indies, from what is called the Bird pepper, on account of hens and turkeys being extremely partial to it. It is imported ready for use. Of the capsicum species ot plants there are five ; but the princi- pal are :—1. Capsicum annuum, the common long-podded capsicum, which is cultivated in our gardens, and of which there are two varieties, one with red, and another with yellow fruit. 2. Capsicum baccatum, or bird-pepper, which rises with a shrubby stalk four or five feet high, with its berries growing at the division of the branches; this is small, oval-shaped, and of a bright-red colour, from which, as we have said, the best cayenne is made. 3. Capsicum grossum, the bell-pepper: the fruit of this is red, and is the only kind fit tor pickling.