LUNCHEON AT HOME. CHAPTER LXI. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON LUNCHEON, WITH MENUS FOR PUBLIC, GUEST, PIC-NIC AND FAMILY LUNCHEONS. luncheon, as a word of comprehensive meaning, may fairly take a high place, signifying as it does such a grand variety of meals, ranging from the simple “ glass of wine and a biscuit ” or the more humble “crust of bread and cheese and glass of ale ’’ to an elaborate meal, that is, in all but name, a dinner Only one general meaning that the word has is that it stands for whatever is partaken of between the last named meal and breakfast. Many are the a[^Lm?ntS c andaSainst luncheon, some right, some wrong, no doubt; but for all that, we have luncheon fully installed amongst our list of meals, and there it is likely to remain till the end of the chapter. When the dinner hour is an early one, those who value their health will do well to avoid lunching; but when breakfast takes place at 8 or 9 and dinner is late, a substantial lunch may safely be indulged in, and is a most useful, if not absolutely necessary meal. 1 These meals are naturally regulated by various circumstances, such as in- dividual taste, means and station; in a high-class house, however, it is usual to serve a good repast, not alone for the family, but for the reason that, at an informal meal, chance guests have to be provided for. j®1 High-class Luncheons.—At these anything and everything that is served for dinner such as soup, fish, entrees, poultry, game or joints may be given, but a number of courses such as compose the latter meal are not in the least necessary, or even usual. Soup, in winter, is a welcome course, to be followed by any hot entrees, game or poultry, the joints, if any, being generally cold, two or three sweets, one of which may be some simple milk pudding, with cheese biscuits, cake and fruit. In summer, the dishes may be either hot or cold or both, when salads should be added to the menu, and potatoes may be the only vegetable, these being chipped, mashed, or cooked in any way except plainly boiled, lush is more common at dinner than luncheon, unless it be in the form of croquettes or rissoles, filleted soles, and mayonaise of salmon or lobster. 3019. Middle class Luncheons.— Where there is a nursery these generally serve for the children’s dinner, and in consequence the chief dishes are sWe an“ substantial, often consisting of a joint and a pudding. When the children do not share the meal, a joint which is cooked for the kitchen dinner is otten brought first into the dining-room, but this is not a custom to be com- mended, for the reason that the servants have their chief meal late and cold. So many nice little dishes can be made from cold meats left from the preceding day that those who like hot luncheons need not trespass upon the servants’ dinner'.