632 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. to 2,000 breeding does. These large establishments, however, have ceased to exi9t, and London receives the supply of tame as well as wild rabbits chiefly from the country. Where they are kept, however, the rabbit-house should be placed upon a dry foundation, and be well ventilated. Exposure to rain, whether externally or internally, is fatal to rabbits, which, like sheep, are liable to the rot, springing from the same causes. Thorough ventilation and good air are in- dispensable where many rabbits are kept, or they will neither prosper nor remain healthy for any length of time. A thorough draught or passage for the air is, therefore, absolutely necessary, and should be so contrived as to be checked in cold or wet weather by the closing or shutting of opposite doors or windows. 1326.—ROAST OR BAKED RABBIT. (Fr.—Lapin Roti.) Ingredients.—1 rabbit, forcemeat, No. 629, buttered paper, sausage- meat. Mode.—Empty, skin and thoroughly wash the rabbit; wipe it dry, line the inside with sausage-meat and forcemeat made by recipe No. 629, and to which has been added the minced liver. Sew the stuffing inside, and truss. Wrap the rabbit in buttered paper, and put it down to a bright clear fire; keep it well basted, and a few minutes before it is done remove the paper, flour and froth it, and let it acquire a nice brown colour. Take out the skewers and serve with brown gravy and red current jelly. To bake the rabbit, proceed in the same manner as above ; in a good oven it will take about the same time as roasting. Time.—A young rabbit, 35 minutes; a large one, about f hour. Average Cost, from 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to February. ROAST RABBIT. The Hutch.—Hutches are generally placed one above another to the height required by the number of rabbits and the extent of the room. Where a large stock is kept, to make the most of room, the hutches may be placed in rows, with a sufficient interval between for feeding and cleaning, instead of being, in the usual way, joined to the wall. It is preferable to rest the hutches upon stands, about a foot above the ground, for the convenience of cleaning under them. Each of the hutches intended for breeding should have two rooms—a feeding and a bed- room. The single hutches are for the use of the weaned rabbits, or for the bucks, which are always kept separate. The floors should be planed smooth, that wet may run off, and a common hoe with a short handle, and a short broom, are most convenient implements for cleaning these houses. 1327.—STEWED RABBIT. (Fr.—Gibelotte de Lapin.) Ingredients.—I rabbit, 2 large onions, 6 cloves, 1 small teaspoonful of chopped lemon-peel, a few forcemeat balls, thickening of butter and flour, 1 large tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the rabbit into small joints; put them into a stewpan, add the onions sliced, the cloves, and minced lemon-peel. Pour in sufficient water to cover the meat, and when the rabbit is nearly done, drop in a few forcemeat balls, to which the liver has been added, finely chopped. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, put in the ketchup, give one boil, and serve. Time.—Rather more than i hour. Average Cost, 8d. per lb.