3°6 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 663.—ASPIC JELLY. (Another Mode.) To 2 quarts of any stock add oz. of gelatine (less if the stock is stiff), 1 carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 shalot, 4 cloves, mace, 6 peppercorns, rind and juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a bunch of parsley and herbs, the white of an egg and some shells, £ to £ a lb. of lean beef, or veal scraped clear of fat and gristle. Whisk over the fire till it boils, let it boil well up, settle for 10 to 15 minutes by the side of the stove and strain through a cloth. The meat may be omitted. White Pepper.—This is the produce of the same plant as that which produces the black pepper, from which it is manufactured by steeping in lime and water, and rubbing it between the hands till the coats come off. The best berries only will bear this operation ; hence the superior qualities of white pepper fetch a higher price than those of the other. It is less acrid than the black, and is much prized among the Chinese. It is sometimes adulterated with rice- flour, as the black is with burnt bread. The berries of the pepper-plant grow in spikes of from twenty to thirty, and are, when ripe, of a bright-red colour. Alter being gathered, which is done when they are green, they are spread out in the sun, where they become black and shrivelled, when they are ready for being prepared for the market. 664.—BACON SAUCE. (To be eaten without meat.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of bacon or ham, 2 onions, 1 wineglassful of vine- gar, pepper, salt, flour, 2 gills of water, potatoes. Mode.—Take small potatoes, wash them and boil them in their skins, then peel and slice. Cut some rashers of ham or streaky bacon into small dice, and fry slowly in a stewpan for 2 minutes, then add the onions, finely chopped, dredge in a little flour and stir till the onion is a pale brown, then add the vinegar, pepper, salt and water. Stir till it boils, then pour over the potatoes. This sauce is perfectly admissible with veal cutlet, boiled fowl, &c. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average Cost, without the potatoes, 6d. Seasonable at any time. 665.—FRENCH WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—Bechamel.) Ingredients.— 1 small bunch of parsley, 2 cloves, £a bay-leaf, 1 small faggot of savoury herbs, salt-to taste, 3 or 4 mushrooms, when obtainable; 2 pints of white stock, 1 pint of cream, 1 tablespoonful of arrowroot. Mode.—Put the stock into a stewpan, with the parsley, cloves, bay- leaf, herbs and mushrooms; add a seasoning of salt, but no ground pepper, as that would give the sauce a dusty appearance, and should be