732 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. piece off the bottom of each, that they may stand upright in the dish, and boil them in salt and water until tender. Have ready half a pint of white sauce, made by recipe No. 795; dish the artichokes, pour over them the sauce, and place between each a fine Brussels sprout; these should be boiled separately and not with the artichokes. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. to 3^. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from September to June. The Jerusalem Artichoke —This plant is well known, being, for its tubers, cultivated not only as a garden vegetable, but also as an agricultural crop. By many it is much esteemed as an esculent, when cooked in various ways; and the domesticated animals eat both the fresh foliage and the tubers with great relish. By some, they are not only considered nourishing, but even fattening. 1535-—FRIED ARTICHOKES (GOUFFE). (Fr.—Artichauts Frits.) Ingredients.—6 artichokes, 3 tablespoonfuls of oil, pepper and salt to taste, 3 eggs, £ gill of vinegar, 1 pint of water, 3 oz. of flour. Mode.—Remove the leaves, cut the artichokes into fine slices, as thin as a card, and throw them into a basin with the vinegar and water to whiten them. Drain off the water, and season with 1 pinch of salt and 1 dash of pepper. Break 3 eggs into a basin, add 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil and the flour, mix thoroughly, and pour over the artichokes, stirring them with the hand lightly so as to cover every portion of them with the mixture. Fry very gently of a light gold colour, drain on blotting paper, and pile them up in a white napkin. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 2d. to 3d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to June. 1536.-BOILED ASPARAGUS. (Fr.—Asperges a la Sauce Blanche—au Beurre.) Ingredients.—To each \ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; asparagus. Mode.—Asparagus should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut, although it may be kept for a day or two by putting the stalks into cold water; yet, to be good, like every other vegetable, it cannot be cooked too fresh. Scrape the white part of the stems, beginning from the head, and throw them into cold water; then fie them into bundles of about 20 each, keeping the heads all one way, and cut the stalks evenly, that they may all be the same length ; put them into boiling water, with salt in the above proportion; keep them boiling gently until tender, with