The Fixtures—The Kitchen Dresser. 41 rather too high a step for anyone to mount, with comfort, and, moreover, stepping on to and down from a chair is an operation not wholly free from danger of falling. For one of the ordinary kitchen chairs, there- fore, a hall or library chair should be substituted, which by a simple movement is immediately convert- ible into steps. A chair of this description is shown both as a chair, closed, and as steps when open in the annexed illustrations. It is called a " hall step chair,” and is supplied at prices ranging from 21s. upwards, according to the material and style of which and in which it is made. The outlay on such a chair may be soon saved in the prevention of accidents which might result in the fracture of a well-dish, or other dishes of large size, which are usually kept on the topmost shelf of the dresser. 72. The Fixtures.—The preceding remarks on the furniture of the kitchen have been rather confined to pointing out certain articles that are desirable, but Hall Step Chair (Closed), which are not always to be found therein, than ex- tended, as they might have been, to the consideration of every piece of furniture that might be placed within it, with its price, &c. It will now be convenient to turn to the fixtures, or articles which are attached to the walls of the house ; and which, therefore, are immovable and form part and parcel of it. Chief among these are the kitchen cupboards and the dresser, the bell-board and slips of wood attached to the walls, to take dish covers, &c. The kitchen range, too, which, in most cases, is a fixture, may conveniently be considered as such although it will be necessary to touch on kitcheners, and gas apparatus for cooking which may be moved by the tenant when changing houses, provided always, that they have been purchased by him for use in the house which he is quitting. 73. The Kitchen Dresser. — This is usually a tripartite arrangement, consisting of a range of drawers, usually three in number in t! e centre, having a recess open from end to end and from front to back below, with boarding on the Hall Step Chair (Open). bottom raised some three or four inches above the floor, painted black, and usually known as the “ pot board," because it is commonly, though not always, used for the bestowal of the larger culinary utensils used for boiling, stewing, &c. Above the drawers rise from four to five tiers of shelves, narrow at the bottom, but each being wider than the one below it until the topmost shelf is reached, this shelf being appropriated to the larger dishes, while those below it carry soup plates, dinner plates, pudding plates and cheese plates in the order laid down The broad stielf of the dresser surmount- ing the drawers, is usually set out with the soup tureen and vegetable dishes, while the edges of the shelves above are furnished with brass dresser-hooks on which jugs, mugs, &c. of different kinds and sizes are hung. 74. The Shelves.—Of the shelves above the drawers there is little to say, and that little refers to the wall behind the shelves, rather than to the shelves