PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. —_ I must frankly own that, if I had known beforehand that this book would have cost me the labour which it has, I should never have been coura- geous enough to commence it. What moved me, in the first instance, to attempt a work like this, was the discomfort and suffering which I had seen brought upon men and women by household mis-management. have always thought that there is no more fruitful source of family dis- content than a housewife’s badly-cooked dinners and untidy ways. Men are now so well served out of doors—at their clubs, well-ordered taverns and dining-houses—that, in order to compete with the attractions of these places, a mistress must be thoroughly acquainted with the theory and practice of cookery, as well as be perfectly conversant with all the other arts of making and keeping a comfortable home. In this book I have attempted to give, under the chapters devoted to cookery, an intelligible arrangement to every recipe, a list of the ingre- dients, a plain statement of the mode of preparing each dish, and a careful estimate of its cost, the number of people for whom it is sufficient, and the time when it is seasonable. For the matter of the recipes, I am indebted, in some measure, to many correspondents of the “ Englishwoman’s Domestic Magazine,” who have obligingly placed at my disposal their formulae for many original preparations. A large private circle has also rendered me considerable service. A diligent study of the works of the best modern writers on cookery was also necessary to the faithful fulfil- ment of my task. Friends in England, Scotland, Ireland, France and Germany, have also very materially aided me. I have paid great atten- tion to those recipes which come under the head of “ Cold Meat Cookery.” But in the department belonging to the Cook I have striven, too, to make my work something more than a Cookery-Book, and have, therefore, on the best authority that I could obtain, given an account of the natural history of the animals and vegetables which we use as food. I have followed the animals from their birth to their appearance on the table ; have described the manner of feeding them, and of slaying them, the position of the various joints ; and after giving the recipes, have described the modes of carving Meat, Poultry and Game. Skilful artists