238 Recipes for Cooking Fish. garnish with fennel or parsley. Fennel sauce and plain melted butter used to be the usual accompaniments to boiled mackerel; but caper, tomato, gooseberry, or anchovy sauce is now more often served with it. Time.—10 minutes; for large mackerel, allow more time. Average Cost, from 3d. each. Seasonable from April to July. Note.—When variety is desired, fillet the mackerel, boil it, and pour over parsley and butter; send some of this besides, in a tureen. 499.—BROILED MACKEREL. (Fr.—Maquereau Grille a la Maltre d’Hotel.) Ingredients.—Pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of oil, 1 oz. butter, parsley, lemon juice. Mode.—Mackerel should never be washed when intended to be broiled, but merely wiped very clean and dry, after taking out the gills and inside. Open the back, and put in a little pepper, salt and oil; broil it over a clear fire, turn it over on both sides, and also on the back. When sufficiently cooked, the flesh can be detached from the bone, which will be in about 10 minutes for a small mackerel. Chop a little parsley, work it up in the butter, with pepper and salt to taste, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and put it in the back. Serve before the butter is quite melted, with a maitre d'hotel sauce in a tureen. A large mackerel should be split down the back and laid flat. Time.—Small mackerel 10 minutes. Average Cost, from 3d. each. Seasonable from April to July. The Mackerel.—This is not only one of the most elegantly formed, but one of the most beautifully coloured fishes, when taken out of the sea, that we have. Death in some degree impairs the vivid splen- dour of its colours: but it does not en- tirely obliterate them. This fish visits the shores of Great Britain in countless shoals, appearing about March, off the Land's End ; in the bays of Devonshire, about April; off Brighton in the beginning of May; and on the coast of Suffolk about the beginning of June. In the Orkneys they are seen till August; but the greatest fishery is on the west coasts of England. THE MACKEREL. To Choose Mackerel.—In choosing this fish, purchasers should, to a great extent, be regulated by the brightness of its appearance. If it have a transparent, silvery hue, the fish is good; but if it be red about the head, it is stale. 500.-FILLETS OF MACKEREL (FV.^Fillets de Maquereau au Bechamel.) Ingredients.— 2 large mackerel, 1 oz. butter, 1 small bunch of chopped herbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of medium stock, No. 273 ; 3 tabiespoonfuls of bechamel (see Sauces) ; salt, cayenne and lemon juice to taste.