RECIPES FOR COOKING FISH. CHAPTER IX. FISH. (Fr.— Poissons.) [Nothing is more difficult than to give the average prices of Fish, inasmuch as a few hours of bad weather at sea will, in the space of one day, cause such a difference in its supply, that the same fish—a turbot for instance—which may be bought to-day for six or seven shillings, will, to-morrow, be, in the London markets, worth, perhaps, almost as many pounds. The average costs, therefore, which will be found appended to each recipe, must be understood as about the averag? price for the different kinds of fish when the market is supplied upon an average, and when the various sorts are of an average size and quality. The seasons for fish also slightly vary with the year, it sometimes happening, for instance, that salmon is at its cheapest and best a little earlier or later than usual. Oysters, however, always come in and go out at the same time, for from April and May to the end of J uly oysters are said to be sick ; but by the end of August they become healthy, having recovered from the effects of spawning. When they are not in season the males have a black and the female a milky substance in th~ gill ] 426.—FRIED ANCHOVIES. (Fr.—Anchois Frits.) Ingredients.—I tablespoonful of oil, £ a glass of white wine, sufficient flour to thicken ; 12 anchovies. Mode.—Mix the oil and wine together, with sufficient flour to make them into a thickish paste; cleanse the anchovies, wipe them, dip them in the paste, and fry of a nice brown colour. Sardines can be cooked in the same way. Time.—Half an hour. Average Cost for this quantity, 9d. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 2 persons. THE ANC-HOVY. The Anchovy.—In his book of “ British Fishes,” Mr. Yarrell states that "the anchovy is a common fish in the Mediterranean, from Greece to Gibraltar, and was well known to the Greeks and Romans, by whom the liquor ^prepared from it, called garum, was in great estimation. Its extreme range is extended into the Black Sea. The fishing for them is carried on during the night, and lights are used with the nets. The anchovy is common on the coasts of Portugal, Spain and France. It occurs, I have no doubt, at the Channel Islands, and has been taken on the Hampshire coast, and in the Bristol Channel." Other fish, of inferior quality, but resembling the real Gorgona anchovy, are frequently sold for it, and nasse^ off as genuine. Sprats are said to be so used.