538 Recipes for Cooking Pork. age of Nimrod, has been considered second only to the more dangerous sport of lion-hunting. The buried treasures of Nineveh, restored to us by Mr. Layard, show us, on their sculptured annals, the kings of Assyria in their royal pastime of boar-hunting. That the Greeks were passionately attached to this sport, we know both from history and the romantic fables of the poets. Marc Antony, at one of his breakfasts with Cleopatra, had eight wild boars roasted whole ; and though the Romans do not appear to have been addicted to hunting, wild-boar fights formed part of their gladiatorial shows in the amphitheatre. In France, Germany and Britain, from the earliest time, the boar-hunt formed one of the most exciting of sports; but it was only in this country that the sport was conducted without dogs, a real hand-to-hand contest of man and beast, the hunter, armed only with a boar-spear, a weapon about four feet long, the ash staff guarded by plates of steel, and terminating in a long, narrow, and very sharp blade: this with a hunting-knife, or hanger, completed his offensive arms. Thus equipped, the hunter would either encounter his enemy face to face, confront his desperate charge, as with erect tail, depressed head, and flaming eyes, he rushed with his foamy tusks full against the hunter, who sought to strike his ready hanger into his throat. But expert as the hunter might be, it was not often the formidable brute was so quickly despatched; for he would sometimes seize the spear in his powerful teeth, and nip it off like a reed, or, coming full tilt on his enemy, by his momentum and weight bear him to the earth, ripping up, with a horrid gash, his leg or side, and before the writhing hunter could draw his knife, the infuriated beast would plunge his snout in the wound, and rip, with savage teeth, the body of the victim. At other times he would suddenly swerve from his charge, and, doubling on his opponent, attack the hunter in the rear. From his speed, great weight, and savage disposition, the wild boar is always a dangerous antagonist, and requires great courage, coolness, and agility on the part of the hunter. The Continental sportsman rides to the chase in a cavalcade, with music and dogs—a kind of small hound or mastiff, and leaving all the onerous part of the contest to them, when the boar is becoming weary, and while beset by the dogs, rides up, and drives his lance home in the beast’s back or side. Boar-hunting has been for some centuries obsolete in England, the animal no longer existing in a wild state among us; but in our Indian empire, and especially in Bengal, the pastime is pursued by our country- men with all the daring of the national character ; and as the animal which inhabits the cane- brakes and jungles is a formidable foe, the sport is attended with great excitement. The hunt-.rs, mounted on small, active horses, and armed only with long lances, ride, at early daylight, to the skirts of the jungle, and having sent in their attendants to beat the cover, wait till the tusked monster comes crashing from among the canes, when chase is immediately given, till he is come up with, and transfixed by the first weapon. Instead of flight, however, he often turns to bay, and by more than one dead horse and wounded hunter, shows how formidable be is, and what those polished tusks, sharp as pitchforks, can effect, when the enraged animal defends his life. 1181.—HASHED PORK. (Fr.—RagoGt de Pore aux CroGtons.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast pork, 2 onions, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 blades of pounded mace, 2 cloves, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, £ pint of gravy, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Chop the onions and fry them of a nice brown, cut the pork into thin slices, season them with pepper and salt, and add these to the remaining ingredients. Stew gently for about half an hour, and serve garnished with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 3d. Seasonable from October to March. 1182.-FRIED RASHERS OF BACON AND POACHED EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs Poches au Lard.) Ingredients.—Bacon ; eggs. Mode.—Cut the bacon into thin slices, trim away the rusty parts, and cut off the rind. Put it into a cold frying-pan—that is to say, do not