375 Mammalia. by the instincts of animal passion, or by pain. Like the vegetable kingdom, they are limited within the boundaries of certain countries by the conditions of climate and soil ; and some of t‘he species prey upon each other. Linnaeus has divided them into six classes:—Mammalia, Birds, Fishes, Amphibious Animals, Insects and Worms. The three latter do not come within the limits of our domain ; of fishes we have already treated, of birds we treat hereafter; and of Mammalia we now treat. MAMMALIA. 848. This Class of Animals embraces all those that nourish their young by means of lacteal glands or teats, and are so considered as to have a warm or red blood. In it the whale is placed—an order which, from external habits, has usually been classed with the fishes ; but although this animal exclusively inhabits the water, and is supplied with fins, it nevertheless exhibits a striking alliance to quadrupeds. It has warm blood, and produces its young alive ; it nourishes them with milk, and for that purpose is furnished with teats. It is also supplied with lungs, and two auricles and two ventricles to the heart; all of which bring it still closer into an alliance with the quadrupedal species of the animal kingdom. 849. The General Characteristics of the Mammalia have been frequently noticed. The bodies of nearly the whole species are covered with hair, a kind of clothing which is both soft and warm, little liable to injury, and bestowed in proportion to the necessities of the animal and the nature of the climate it inhabits. In all the higher orders of animals, the head is the principal seat of the organs of sense. It is there that the eyes, the ears, the nose and the mouth are placed. Through the last they receive their nourish- ment. In it are the teeth, which, in most of the mammalia, are used not only for the mastication of food, but as weapons of defence. They are inserted into two moveable bones called jaws, and the front teeth are so placed that their sharp edges may easily be brought in contact with their food, in order that its fibres may readily be separated. Next to these, on each side, are situated the canine teeth or tusks, which are longer than the other teeth, and being pointed, are used to tear the food. In the back jaws are placed another form of teeth called grinders. They are for masticating the food; and in those animals that live on vegetables they are flattened at the top ; but in carnivora, their upper surfaces are furnished with sharp-pointed protuberances. From the numbers, form and disposition of the teeth, the various genera of quadru- peds have been arranged. The nose is a cartilaginous body, pierced with two holes, which are called nostrils. Through these the animal is affected by the sense of smell; and in some it is prominent, whilst in others it is flat, com- pressed, turned upwards or bent downwards. In beasts of prey it is frequently longer than the lips ; and in some other animals it is elongated into a moveable trunk or proboscis, whilst in the rhinocerous tribe it is armed with a horn. The eyes of quadrupeds are generally defended by moveable lids, on the outer margins of which are fringes of hair called eyelashes. The opening of the pupil is in general circular ; but in some species, as in those of the Cat and Hare, it is contracted into a perpendicular line, whilst in the Horse, the Ox and a few others, it forms a transverse bar. The ears are openings, generally accompanied with a cartilage which defends and covers them, called the ex- ternal ears. In water-animals the latter are wanting; sound, in them, being transmitted merely through orifices in the head, which have the name of