Provisions in France. 1271 2885. French Kitchens.— French children possess exquisite little toy kitchens. These are very fair models of the household kitchen, commonly floored with red bricks (carrele), with its simple square piece of furniture in one corner called a fourneau, looking for all the world like a washing stand covered with encaustic tiles, full of little square holes filled with charcoal in every stage of heat, and steaming stewpans and saucepans, principally made of fireproof china, crowning each aperture. An English cook would open her eyes indeed on hearing that a recondite French dinner could be prepared with so tiny an amount of fuel, forgetful of the fact, that in this very slow manner of preparing food lies the secret of its delicacy. True the kitchen contains a large open chimney without a grate in it, but the log fire sometimes burning here is only utilised to prepare a pot au feu in the indispensable marmite, or, when required to roast a joint on a spit. Rows of wooden spoons, funnels, tammeys, and the whole batterie de cuisine hang on the walls and over the fireplace, and ugly, rough earthenware pots and pans of every shape adorn, or rather do not adorn, the shelves. 2886. Meals in France.—The French rise early, and it is the custom in most houses to send up to the bedroom chocolate or the delicious cafe-au-lait. The coffee, except, indeed, among the poorer classes, contrary to the present English idea, is unmixed with chicory, made very strong, and diluted with rich boiling milk. The usual hour of the dejeuner, or second breakfast, is about eleven. All the family assemble at this meal, and a very elaborate one it generally is. The numerous hors d’oeuvre which make their appearance at the dejeuner, as well as at dinner time, are frequently consumed as a preliminary to the repast, apparently only whetting the appetite before the meal begins in earnest. Five o’clock is the general hour for dinner, and French men and women make a regular business of it; the men often tying their napkin round their neck, and the ladies fastening it to a button on their dress, 6et to work with a will. Hors d’ceuvres, soup, bouilli, fish, entrees, game, roti, vegetables and salad, vanish like magic, the ordinary beverage being claret, of which children and even babies are allowed to partake. Then follow the sweets, and when all this is done, the amount of fruit eaten at dessert is astonishing to the English visitors. Finally cafe noir, with its petit verve of cognac (appropriately designated as chasse cafe and lait de tigre) and liqueurs are handed round, the lady of the house frequently herself presiding over the casket containing the latter. The French sit long over their dinner-table, and later in the evening tea, with some light biscuits or cakes, is served in the drawing-room. 2887. Provisions in France.—Certainly France abounds in everything that can further good cooking. The rich and exquisite milk and butter of the North—the latter now consumed in such quantities in our English homes—the ane poultry as well as eggs that find their way in thousands to our shores, are so many proofs of this. And what of the fruits of the South ? We may form some idea of their plenty, when we see the pigs fed with melons, and eating for their dessert as many pome- granates as may suit their voracious appetite. Of the luscious grape we need say nothing, its juice is only too well known amongst us. There is plenty of fish, too, in the many rivers of the country as well as in the seas that bathe its shores, and the delicate sardine, with which we are all ac- quainted, forms a staple branch of industry on its Western Coast. Game, too, is abundant. The French are great chasseurs, always dressing in costume de chasse—the ladies sharing in this weakness — even when the chasse is no larger than larks. Not that these delicate little creatures are to be despised, as we well know, when sent up smoking hot off the spit, surrounded by a dainty