Recifes for Cooking Poultry. 6i6 they are dressed; when the feathers come out easily, then let them be picked and cooked. When firmly trussed and singed, put them down to a bright, clear fire, papering the breasts with buttered paper, and keeping them well basted. Roast them for three-quarters of an hour, more or less, according to the size, and ten minutes before serving remove the paper, a little fine flour, put a piece of butter into the it melts, baste the fowls with it; when nicely colour, serve with good brown gravy, a little of ROAST FOWL. dredge the fowls with basting-ladle, and, as frothed and of a rich which should be poured over the fowls, and a tureen of well-made bread sauce, No. 671. Mushroom, oyster or egg sauce are very suitable accom- paniments to roast fowl. Chicken is roasted in the same manner. Time.—A very large fowl, quite one hour ; medium-sized one, | hour ; chicken, | hour, or rather longer. Average Cost, in full season, 5s. a pair; when scarce, 7s. 6d. the pair. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. .The Diseases of Fowls, and How to Cure Them. — The diseases to which Galltis domesticus is chiefly liable are roup, pip, scouring and chip. The first-mentioned is the most common of all, and results from cold. The ordinary symptoms—swollen eyes, running at the nostrils, and the purple colour of the wattles. Part birds so affected from the healthy ones, as when the disease is at its height it is as contagious as glanders among horses. Wash out the nostrils with warm water, give daily a peppercorn enclosed in dough; bathe the eyes and nostrils with warm milk and water. If the head is much swollen, bathe with warm brandy and water. When the bird is getting well, put half a spoonful of sulphur in his drinking- water. Some fanciers prescribe for this disease half a spoonful of table-salt, dissolved in half a gill of water in which rue has been steeped ; others, pills composed of ground rice and fresh butter; but the remedy first mentioned will be found far the best. As there is a doubt respecting the wholesomeness of eggs laid by roupy hens, it will be as well to throw them away. The pip is a white horny skin growing on the tip of the bird's tongue. It should be removed with the point of a penknife, and the place lubbed with salt. 1305-A GERMAN METHOD OF ROASTING FOWL. (Fr.—Poulet Roti aux Marrons.) Ingredients.— 1 large fowl, veal stuffing, No. 629, 1 lb. of chestnuts, 1 pint of gravy, No. 618, flour, butter, pepper, salt, 1 lb. of sausages, 1 lemon. Mode.—Prepare the fowl for roasting, stuff the breast with veal stuffing, and fill the body with the chestnuts (save a dozen), boiled tender, peeled, and then roasted or baked. Spit the fowl and put it to roast before a brisk fire, basting with butter. Take the remainder of the chestnuts, stew them ten minutes in the gravy, add salt, pepper, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; boil till a smooth sauce is obtained. Fry the sausages, lay them round a dish with the fowl in the centre and the gravy round ; garnish with lemon cut in thin slices. Time—1 hour. Average Cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in winter.