Roast Neck of Veal. 453 meg to taste ; 1 onion, 2 carrots, a little celery (when this is not obtain- able, use the seed), £ glass of sherry, thickening of butter and flour, lemon- juice, 1 blade of pounded mace. Mode.—Prepare the bacon for larding, and roll it in minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; lard the veal, put it into a stewpan with a few slices of lean bacon or ham, an onion, carrots and celery; and about a quarter cover it with water. Stew it gently for 2 hours, or until it is quite tender; strain off the liquor ; stir a little flour and butter to- gether over the fire, in a stewpan, until brown; lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan, and let it remain till of a nice brown colour, or else brown it in the oven. Place it in the dish ; pour into the stewpan as much gravy as is required, boil it up, skim well, add the wine, pounded mace, and lemon-juice ; simmer for 3 minutes, pour it round the meat and serve with a garnish of any vegetables. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Birth of Calves.—The cow seldom produces more than a single calf; sometimes twins, and very rarely three. A French newspaper, however—The “ Nouveau Bulletin des Sciences gave a trustworthy but extraordinary account of acow which produced nine calves in all, at three suc- cessive births, in three successive years. The first year, four cow calves; the second year, three calves, two of them females; the third year, two calves, both females. With the exception of two belonging to the first birth, all were suckled by the mother. 1005.-ROAST NECK OF VEAL. (Fr— Carre de Veau Roti.) Ingredients.—Veal, melted butter, No. 676, forcemeat balls, No. 629. Mode.—Have the veal cut from the best end of the neck; dredge it with flour, and put it down to a bright clear fire; keep it well basted ; dish it, pour over it some melted butter, and garnish the dish with some fried forcemeat balls; send to table with a cut lemon. The scrag may be boiled or stewed in various ways, with rice, onion sauce, or parsley and butter. Time.—About 2 hours. Average Cost, gd. per lb. Sufficient, 4 or 5 lbs. for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 1006.—VEAL OLIVE PIE. (I=Y.-Pat6 de Veau.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—A few thin slices of cold fillet of veal, a few thin slices of bacon, forcemeat, No 629, a cupful of gravy, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, puff-crust.