677 Roast Han. and In some portions of the Alps. It was, in 1760, last seen in Scotland, in the woods of Strath- glass. Recent attempts have been made to re-introduce it into that country, but without success | principally owing, as we should imagine, to the want of sufficient food suitable for its sustenance. Grouse.—Under the general term are included several species of game birds, called black, red, woodland and white grouse. The black is larger than the red (see No. 1395), and is not so common, and, therefore, held in higher estimation. The red, however, is a bird of exquisite flavour, and is a native of the mountainous districts of Scotland and the North of England. It feeds on the tops of the heath, and the berries that grow amongst them ; its colour is a rich chestnut, striped with black. The woodland, or cock of the wood, is the largest among the bird tribes which pass under the denomination of game. It is smaller than the turkey, and was originally common in our mountains; but it is now to be found only in the mountains of Scotland, ihe cafercalzie. though it still abounds in the north of Europe, Ger- ma.ny, .and in the Alps. It is esteemed as delicious eating, and its plumage is extremeiy beauti- ful. The white grouse, or ptarmigan, is not a plentiful bird in Britain; but it is still found in the islands, and weighs about half a pound. The London market is supplied by Norway and Scotland ; those from the former country being esteemed the best. When young, it is held in high estimation, being considered as little different from common grouse. 1397-—ROAST HARE. (Fr.—Li6vre Rdti.) Ingredients.—Hare, forcemeat, No. 629, a little milk, butter. Mode.—Choose a young hare, which may be known by its smooth and sharp claws, and by the cleft in the lip not being much spread. To be eaten in perfection, it must hang for some time ; and, if properly taken care of, it may be kept for several days. It is better to hang without being paunched ; but should it be previously emptied, wipe the inside every day, and sprinkle over it a little pepper and ginger, to prevent the musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. After it is skinned, wash it well, and soak for an hour in warm water to draw out the blood ; if old, let it lie in vinegar for a short time, but wash it well afterwards in several waters. Make a force- meat by recipe No. 629, wipe the hare dry, fill the belly with it, and sew it up. Make of the same forcemeat some balls for garnishing, and fry them a nice brown. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire when it is first laid down, or the outside will become dry and hard before the inside is done. Baste it well with milk for a short time, and afterwards with butter; and particular attention must be paid to the basting, so as to preserve the meat on the back juicy and nutritive. When it is almost roasted enough, flour the hare, and baste well with butter. When nicely frothed, dish it, remove the skewers, and send it to table garnished with the forcemeat balls and fried parsley, with a little gravy in the dish, and a tureen of the same Red-currant jelly must also not be forgotten, as ROAST HARE,