Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 181 372.—RABBIT SOUP. (Fr.—Puree de Lapin a la Creme.) Ingredients.—2 large rabbits, or 3 small ones; a fagot of savoury herbs 1 head of celery, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 blade of mace, salt and white pepper to taste ; a little pounded mace, £ pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs, boiled hard, the crumb of a French roll, nearly 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Make the soup with the legs and shoulders of the rabbit, and keep the nice pieces for a dish or entree. Put them into warm water, and draw the blood ; when quite clean, put them in a stewpan, with a fagot of herbs, and a teacupful, or rather more, of veal stock, or water. Sim- mer slowly till done through, and add the three quarts of water and boil for an hour. Take out the rabbit, pick the meat from the bones, covering it up to keep it white ; put the bones back in the liquor, add the vegeta- bles, and simmer for 2 hours; skim and strain, and let it cool. Now pound the meat in a mortar, with the yolks of the eggs, and the crumb of the roll previously soaked ; rub it through a tammy, and gradually add it to the strained liquor, and simmer for 15 minutes. Mix arrowroot or rice- flour with the cream (say 2 dessertspoonfuls) and stir in the soup ; bring it to a boil, and serve. This soup should be very white, and instead of thickening it with arrowroot or rice flour, vermicelli or pearl barley can be boiled in a little stock, and put in 5 minutes before serving. Time.—Nearly 4 hours. Average Cost, is. per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 10 persons. 373-—SHEEP’S HEAD SOUP. (Fr.— Potage Ecossais.) Ingredients.—1 sheep’s head, 1 onion, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Mode.—Wash and clean the head carefully, and soak for 2 hours. Then put it into a deep saucepan with just enough water to cover it. When the head is thoroughly heated, put in 2 quarts of water and boil 2 hours. Then remove the head, strip the meat from the bones, putting the latter back into the soup with the herbs and onion, and simmer another hour. Cut up the meat into small pieces, and 10 minutes before serving put into the soup to get hot, but do not let it boil. Time.—Altogether 3 hours. Average Cost, 4id. per quart. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, excepting in May. 374.—SHEEP’S HEAD SOUP. (Fr.—Potage Ecossais.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 sheep’s head, 2 sheep’s trotters, 1 onion, bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Mode.—Prepare the head as before, and clean the feet, removing, if