Provisions in India. 1263 safety unless boiled and filtered, when it is then so flat and unpalatable that it :s necessary to add something to make it more pleasant to the taste. Too often this “ something ” happens to be brandy, of which a great deal is consumed in India, to the detriment of the health of the majority. One of the most refreshing drinks is lime-juice and water, and iced tea is another very pleasant one. Bottled beer is a favourite drink, but this, as well as draught beer, is expensive. Still, drinking is, after all, more of a habit than a necessity, and it would be well for our constitution when in India if we were to try and take as few “ pegs," as the many brandies and sodas and other drinks are generally denominated, as possible. 2866. Food in India, is not dear, and the fact of only having to provide for the family and not for any servants, makes a very great difference in the trouble of housekeeping. Indian cooks are clever, and, with very simple materials, will turn out a good dinner; whereas the same food in the hands of an ordinary English cook would resolve itself into the plainest meal. 2867. Bleat being eaten so soon after it is killed, even if for no otherreason, is not good, the beef is coarse, sinewy and tasteless, and the mutton decidedly inferior in quality, and it is well that Indian cooks are so clever in disguising the insipidity of both, or we should scarcely be able to partake of meat at all. English ham is considered a delicacy, otherwise pork is not eaten in India. Goat’s flesh is sometimes cooked, but is anything but pleasant to English tastes. 2868. Poultry and game may be said to be very plentiful and good, although the latter is rather wanting in flavour. Fowls may be considered a staple food, and are usually home grown ; rabbits are also generally kept in the compound, and answer well for curries and made dishes. Snipe are well flavoured and good, while quails and teal are better in India than almost anywhere else. 2869. Fruit is well known to be plentiful and varied in India, but to many English people the quality, so relished at home, is wanting. Peaches are poor and not well-flavoured, grapes are thick-skinned but of strong muscat flavour, plantains are insipid, mangoes, a taste only acquired by those who have not a strong preju- dice against turpentine ; still most people who have lived long in India are fond of them. Amongst the best of the fruits indigenous to the country are bananas, dates, melons and cocoanuts. English vegetables, with proper care, grow well, and Indian cooks, properly instructed, will cook them, as well as anything else, in the way we are accustomed to have them cooked at home. A knowledge of cookery is a good thing for the English mistress of an Indian Household to possess, and she can often find some amusement when shut indoors during the heat of the day in making such things as cakes and biscuits, which are better not trusted to the hands of the Khansaman. Those English ladies who have best preserved their health in India appear to be those who do not give way to the climate, but perform their household duties in hot weather as well as cold, busying themselves in some manner indoors during theii enforced seclusion instead of taking refuge in siestas, which are so often fatal tc rest at night. The maladies of nervousness and weakness, so common in India find a powerful enemy in work. 3 T