LEGAL MEMORANDA. CHAPTER LXXV. 3692. Humorists tell us there is no act of our lives which can be performed without breaking through some one of the many meshes of the law by which our rights are so carefully guarded ; and those learned in the law, when they do give advice without the usual fee, and in the confidence of friendship, generally say, • ■ Pay : pay anything rather than go to law while those having experience in the courts of Themis have a wholesome dread of their pitfalls. There are a tew exceptions, however, to this fear of the law’s uncertainties; and we hear of those to whom a lawsuit is an agreeable relaxation—a gentle excitement. One of this class, when remonstrated with, retorted, that while one friend kept dogs, and another horses, he, as he had a right to do, kept a lawyer, and no one had a right to dispute his taste. We cannot pretend, in these few pages, to lay down even the principles of law, not to speak of its contrary exposition in different courts; but there are a few acts of legal import which all men—and women too—must perform ; and to these acts we may be useful in giving a right direction. There is a house to be leased or purchased, servants to be engaged, a will to be made, or property settled, in all families ; and much of the welfare of its members depends upon these things being done in proper legal form. 3693. Purchasing a House.— Independently of the strictly legal aspect of this subject, nothing demands more caution than deciding upon the purchase of a house. Locality and accessibility must in many cases depend upon where a suitable and satisfactory house can be found, for if the intending purchaser insists upon whereabouts the house is to be, an inferior house must probably be sub- mitted to, because it is one of the perversities which belong to the fitness of things that, in almost every locality, all the houses worth having are already purchased and occupied by earlier operators. . The better way, perhaps, is to look out for the kind of house desired, and to consider whether it is tolerably situated afterwards. Old houses, with all the undoubted recommendations of many of them, are liable to inherent defects, which must in that case be jealously investigated. Supposing the general appearance of the house to be sufficiently acceptable, the defect most likely to be present is dampness of the foundations, especially where built upon clay, owing to precau- tions against damp being omitted at the time of building. There are also likely to be inherent defects in the drainage which are sometimes almost incurable, and a general inferiority in all, or nearly all, the domestic fittings, together with a total absence of many of the appliances and conveniences which a really good