675 Roast Grouse. 1394.—GROUSE PIE. (Fr.—Pate de Coq de Bruyere.) Ingredients. — Grouse, cayenne, salt and pepper to taste, 1 lb. of rump steak, 4 pint of well-seasoned broth, puff paste. 1 Mode.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with the rump-steak cut into peat pieces, and, should the grouse be large, cut them into joints ; but, if small, they may be laid in the pie whole; season highly with salt, cayenne and black pepper; pour in the broth, and cover with a puff paste; brush the crust over with the yolk of an egg, and bake from three quarters to 1 hour. If the grouse is cut into joints, the backbones and trimmings will make the gravy, by stewing them with an onion, a little sherry, a bunch of herbs and a blade of mace ; this should be poured in after the pie is baked. Time.—f to I hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the grouse, is. 9d Seasonable from the 12th of August to the beginning of December. 1395.—ROAST GROUSE. (Fr.—Coq de Bruy&re Roti.) Ingredients.—Grouse, butter, a thick slice of toasted bread. Mode.—Let the birds hang as long as possible ; pluck and draw them ; wipe, but do not wash them, inside and out, and truss them the same as a roast fowl. Put them down to a sharp, clear fire; keep them well basted the whole of the time they are cooking, and serve them on a buttered toast soaked in the dripping-pan, with a little melted butter poured over them, or with bread-sauce and gravy. Time.—^ hour; if liked very thoroughly done, 35 minutes. Average Cost, from 3s. the brace . Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from the 12th of August to the beginning of December. Grouse.—These birds are divided into wood grouse, black grouse, red grouse and white greuse. The wood grouse is further distinguished as the cock of the wood, or capercalzie, and is as large as the turkey, being about two feet nine inches in length, and weighing from twelve to fifteen pounds. The female is considerably less than the male, and, in the colour of her feathers, differs widely from the other. This beautiful species is found principally in lofty, mountainous regions, and is very rare in Great Britain; but in the pine forests of Russia, Sweden, and other northern countries, it is very common. In these it has its habitat, feeding on the cones of the trees and the fruits of various kinds of plants, especially the berry of the juniper. Black grouse is also distinguished as black-game, or the black-cock. It is not larger than the common hen, and weighs only about four pounds. The female is about one-third less than the mala, and also differs considerably from him in point of colour. Like the former, they are found chiefly in high situations, red grouse. and are common in Russia, Siberia, and other northern countries. They are also found in the northern parts of Great Britain, feeding in winter on the various berries and fruits belonging to