Curry-Powder. 1047 2274.-SHALOT VINEGAR. Ingredients.—2 0z. of shalots, I quart of wine vinegar. Mode.—Prepare precisely as directed for garlic vinegar. Seasonable.—Make this in October. 2275.—INDIAN CURRY-POWDER. {Founded on Dr. Kitchener's Recipe.) Ingredients.—l lb. of coriander-seed, £ lb. of turmeric, 2 oz. of cin- namon seed, | oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. of mustard, 1 oz. of ground ginger, £ oz. of allspice, 2 oz. of fenugreek-seed. Mode.—Put all the ingredients in a cool oven, where they should remain one night: then pound them in a mortar, rub them through a sieve, and mix thoroughly together: keep the powder in a bottle, from which the air should be completely excluded. Note.—We have given this recipe for curry powder, as some persons prefer to make it at home; but that purchased at any respectable shop is, generally speaking, far superior, and, taking all things into consideration, very frequently more economical. 2276. —TO DRY HERBS FOR WINTER USE. On a very dry day, gather the herbs, just before they begin to flower, 'if this is done when the weather is damp, the herbs will not be so good a colour. (It is very necessary to be particular in little matters like this, for trifles constitute perfection, and herbs nicely dried will be found very acceptable when frost and snow are on the ground. It is hardly necessary, however, to state that the flavour and fragrance of fresh herbs are incom- parably finer.) They should be perfectly freed from dirt and dust, and be divided into small bunches, with their roots cut off. Dry them quickly in a very hot oven, or before the fire, as by this means most of their flavour will be preserved; be careful not to burn them; tie them up in paper bags, and keep in a dry place. This is a very general way of preserving dried herbs ; but we would recommend the plan described in the next recipe. Seasonable.—From the month of July to the end of September is the proper time for storing herbs for winter use. 2277. —HERB POWDER FOR FLAVOURING. (When fresh Herbs are not obtainable.) Ingredients.—I oz. of dried lemon-thyme, 1 oz. of dried winter savory, 1 oz. of dried sweet marjoram and basil, 2 oz. of dried parsley, 1 oz. of dried lemon-peel. Mode.—Prepare and dry the herbs by recipe No. 2276 ; pick the leaves