Men Servants* Duties. i470 robe is in thorough repair, and to make him acquainted with the fact if he sees that any additions to it are required. A valet not having suits provided and never wearing livery, has, as a rule, all his master’s discarded clothes. His attire should, in its way, be as irreproachable as his master’s on all occasions, and there being no hard or heavy work for a valet to perform, this is not difficult to manage. The valet has his meals served in the housekeeper’s or steward's room, he and the lady’s-maid taking, after the two here mentioned, precedence of the other servants. 3258. Attendance.—It is, perhaps, unnecessary to add that, having dis- charged all the commissions entrusted to him by his master, such as conveying notes or messages to friends, or the tradesmen, all of which he should punctually and promptly attend to, it is his duty to be in waiting when his master returns home to dress for dinner, or for any other occasion, and to have all things pre- pared for his second dressing. Previous to this, he brings under his notice the cards of visitors who may have called, delivers the messages he may have re- ceived for him, and otherwise acquits himself of the morning’s commissions, and receives his orders for the remainder of the day. The routine of his evening duty is to have the dressing-room and study, where there is a separate one, ar- ranged comfortably for his master, the fires lighted, candles prepared, dressing- gown and slippers in their place, and aired, and everything in order that is re- quired for his master’s comfort. A valet should have a good knowledge of packing, and the more experience of travelling he possesses the better, as so much of the comfort or discomfort ex- perienced by gentlemen when taking a journey depends upon the valet, to whom devolves the tasks of getting tickets, looking out routes, securing seats, carriages and berths, as the case may be ; while he is also responsible for the luggage and should take his master’s travelling-bag or dressing-case into his own care. When travelling by rail, unless he occupies the same carriage as his master, he should, when the train stops for any length of time, be in attendance in case anything should be required. A knowledge of foreign languages is a most useful qualification in a valet.