759 Stewed Mushrooms. 1589.-STEWED MUSHROOMS. (Fr—Champignons a la Creme.) Ingredients.— t pint of mushroom-buttons, 3 oz. of fresh butter, white pepper and salt to taste, lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful of flour, cream or milk, \ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mode.—Cut off the ends of the stalks, and pare neatly a pint of mush- room buttons ; put them into a basin of water, with a little lemon-juice, as they are done. When all are prepared, take them from the water with the hands, to avoid the sediment, and put them into a stewpan with the fresh butter, white pepper, salt and the juice of half a lemon ; cover the pan closely, and let the mushrooms stew gently from 20 to 25 minutes; then thicken the butter with the above proportion of flour, add gradually sufficient cream, or cream and milk, to make the sauce of a proper con- sistency, and put in the grated nutmeg. If the mushrooms are not per- fectly tender, stew them for five minutes longer, remove every particle of butter which may be floating on the top, and serve. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, from 9d. to 2s. per pint. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in September and October. To Procure Mushrooms.—In order to obtain mushiooms at all seasons, several methods of propagation have been had recourse to. It is said that, in some parts of Italy, a species of stone is used for this purpose, which is described as being of two different kinds ; the one is found in the chalk hills near Naples, and has a white, porous, stalactical appearance; the other is hardened turf from some volcanic mountains near Florence. These stones are kept in cellars, and occasionally moistened with water which has been used in the washing of mushrooms, and are thus supplied with their minute seeds. In this country gardeners provide themselves with what is called spawn, either from the old manure of cucumber-beds, or purchase it from those whose business it is to propagate it. When thus procured, it is usually made up for sale in quadrils, consisting of numerous white, hbrous roots, having a strong smell of mushrooms. This is planted in rows, in a dry situation, and carefullly attended to for five or six weeks, when the bed begins to produce, and continues to do so for several months. 1590.-STEWED MUSHROOMS IN GRAVY. (Fr.— Champignons au Jus.) Ingredients.—1 pint of mushroom-buttons, 1 pint of brown gravy, No. 614 ; £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Make a pint of brown gravy by recipe No. 614; cut nearly ah the stalks away from the mushrooms and peel the tops ; put them into a stewpan, with the gravy, and simmer them gently from 20 minutes to halt an hour. Add the nutmeg and a seasoning of cayenne and salt, and serve very hot. Time.—20 minutes to half an hour. Average Cost, 9d. to 2s. per pint. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in September and October*