2 The Mistress, 3. Early Rising is one of the most Essential Qualities whit enter into good Household Management, as it is not only the parent of healt' but of innumerable other advantages. Indeed, when a mistress is an early rise it is almost certain that her house will be orderly and well-managed. On tl contrary, if she remain in bed till a late hour, then the domestics, who, as we ha- observed, invariably partake somewhat of their mistress’s character, will surel become sluggards. To self-indulgence all are more or less disposed, and it not to be expected that servants are freer from this fault than the heads o houses. The great Lord Chatham thus gave his advice in reference to thi subject :—" I would have inscribed on the curtains of your bed, and the wall of your chamber, ‘ If you do not rise early, you can make progress in nothing.’ Cleanliness is quite indispensable to Health, and must be studied both in regar to the person and the house, and all that it contains. Cold or tepid baths shoul be employed every morning. The bathing of Children will be treated of unde the heads of “ The Nurse ” and “ The Doctor.” Many diseases would be les common than they are if the pores of the skin were left open. Bathing is, i possible, more necessary in sickness than in health. 4. Frugality and Economy are Home Virtues, without whic no'household can prosper. Dr. Johnson says :—11 Frugality may be termed th daughter of Prudence, the sister of Temperance, and the parent of Liberty He that is extravagant will quickly become poor, and poverty will enforc dependence and invite corruption.” The necessity of practising economy should be evident to everyone, whefher in the possession of an income no more than sufficient for a family’s requirements, or of a large fortune which puts financial idversity out of the question. We must always remember that to manage a littl (veil is a great merit in housekeeping. “ He is a good waggoner,” says Bisho Hall, “ that can turn in a little room. To live well in abundance is the praise o Ihe estate, not of tbs person. I will study more how to give a good account o my little than how tc make it more.” In this there is true wisdom, and it may be added that those who can manage a little well are most likely to succeed i their management of larger matters. Economy and frugality must never, how-J ever, be allowed to degenerate into parsimony and meanness. 5. The Choice of Acquaintances is very important to the happinessr of a mistress and her family. A gossiping acquaintance, who indulges in scandaF and the ridicule of her neighbours, should be avoided as a pestilence. It is like-r wise all-necessary to beware, as Thomson sings— “ The whisper’d tale, That, like the fabling Nile, no fountain knows;— Fair-faced Deceit, whose wily, conscious eye a Ne’er looks direct; the tongue that licks the dust But, when it safely dares, as prompt to sting.” If the duties of a family do not sufficiently occupy the time of a mistresSjg,_ it is well for her to go into society and receive visitors. One is apt to become narrow-minded by living too much in the home circle; also, as in many cases the mistress will have to take her daughters into society, it is well not to get out of the way of meeting fresh people. With children it is better also that they shouk meet other young people when opportunity admits of their doing so. P 6. Friendships should not he hastily formed, or the heart given at once, to every new-comer. There are ladies who uniformly smile on,, and ap«: