956 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Mode- -Mix the rice to a smooth batter with about half a pint of the milk, and the remainder put into a saucepan, with the sugar, butter, and whichever of the above flavourings may be preferred ; bring the milk to the boiling-point, quickly stir in the rice, and let it boil for about ten minutes, or until it comes easily away from the saucepan, keeping it well stirred the whole time. Grease a mould with pure salad oil; pour in the rice, and let it get perfectly set, when it should turn out quite easily; garnish it with jam, or pour round a compote of any kind of fruit, just before it is sent to table. This blancmange is better for being made the day before it is wanted, as it then has time to become firm. If laurel leaves are used for flavouring, steep three of them in the milk, and take them out before the rice is added; about eight drops of essence of almonds, or from 12 to 16 drops of essence of vanilla, would be required to flavour the above proportion of milk. Time.—From 10 to 15 minutes to boil the rice. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. 2043.—RICE CROQUETTES. (Fr.—Croquettes de Riz.) Ingredients.—i lb. of rice, 1 quart of milk, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, flavouring of vanilla, lemon peel, or bitter almonds, egg-and-bread- crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Put the rice, milk and sugar into a saucepan, and let the former gradually swell over a gentle fire until all the milk is dried up; and just before the rice is done, stir in a few drops of essence of any of the above flavourings. Let the rice get cold; then form it into small round balls, dip them into yolk of egg, sprinkle them with bread- crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard for about ten minutes, turning them about, that they may get equally browned Drain the greasy moisture from them, by placing them on a cloth in front of the fire for a minute or two; pile them on a white d’oyley, and send them quickly to table. A small piece of jam is sometimes introduced into the middle of each croquette, which adds very much to the flavour of this favourite dish. Time.—From \ to 1 hour to swell the rice ; about 10 minutes to fry the croquettes. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 croquettes. Seasonable at any time. 2044.—RICE FRITTERS. (Fr— Beignets de Riz.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, I quart of milk, 3 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter, 6 oz. of orange marmalade, 4 eggs.