4 Cheese Fondue. 1165 Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 paj|ons. ^ ^ Seasonable at any time. 2597—CHEESE FONDUE. * (Mr. Mattieu Williams's Recipe. Another Mode.) Mode.—Take a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, add to it a gill of milk in which is dissolved as much powdered bicarbonate 0/potash as will stand upon a threepenny-piece, 1 oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of baked flour, and nearly a gill of new milk, with pepper, cayenne, mustard and nutmeg to taste. Heat this carefully until the cheese is completely dissolved; then beat up three eggs, yolks and whites together, and add them to this solution of cheese, stirring the whole. Now take a shallow metal or earthenware dish or tray that will bear heating; put in a little butter and heat the butter till it frizzles. Then pour the mixture into tho tray and bake it till it is nearly solidified. A cheaper dish may be made by increasing the proportion of cheese, say one egg to a quarter of a pound of cheese. Bread-crumbs may also be added. The potash assists in the re-solution of the coagulated casein in the cheese. 2598.—BRILLAT SAVARIN’S FONDUE. (An Excellent Recipe.) Ingredients.—Eggs, cheese, butter, pepper and salt. Mode.—Take the same number of eggs as there are guests ; weigh the eggs in the shell, allow a third of their weight in Gruyere cheese, and a piece of butter one-sixth of the weight of the cheese. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well; add the cheese, which should be grated, and the GRUYERE CHEESE. butter, which should be broken into small pieces. Stir these ingredients together with a wooden spoon; put the mixture into a lined saucepan, place it over the fire, and stir until the substance is thick and soft. Put in a little salt, according to the age of the cheese, and a good sprinkling of pepper, and serve the fondue on a very hot silver or metal plate. Dn not allow the fondue to remain on the fire after the mixture is set, as, if it boils, it will be entirely spoiled. Briilat Savarm recommends that some .choice Burgundy should be handed roynd with this dish. We have given