6 The Mistress, We would here point out an error—and a grave one it is—into which some mistresses fall. They do not, when engaging a servant, expressly tell her all the duties which she will be ex- pected to perform. This is an act ot omission severely to be reprehended. Every portion of work which the maid will have to do should be plainly stated by the mistress, and understood by the servant. It this plan is not carefully adhered to, an unseemly contention is almost cer- tain to ensue, and this may not be easily settled; so that a change of servants, which is so much to be deprecated, is continually occurring. 15. Servant’s Character.—It is not prudent to be guided by a written one from some unknown quarter ; but it is better to have an interview, if at all possible, with the former mistress. By this means you will be assisted in your decision as to the suitableness of the servant for your place by the appearance of the lady and the state of her house. Negligence and want of cleanliness in her and her household generally will naturally lead you to the conclusion that her servant has suffered from the influence of the bad example. The proper course to pursue in order to obtain a personal interview with the lady is this :— The servant in search of the situation should be desired to see or write to her former mistress, and ask her to be kind enough to appoint a time, convenient to herself, when you may call on her ; this proper observance of courtesy being necessary to prevent any unseasonable intrusion on the part of a stranger. Your first questions should be relatiye to the honesty and general morality of her former servant; and if no objection is stated in that respect, her other qualifica- tions are then to be ascertained. Inquiries should be very minute, so that you may avoid disap- pointment and trouble, by knowing the weak points of your domestic. Your questions also should be brief, as well as to the point. In giving a Character, it is scarcely necessary to say that the mistress should be guided by a sense of strict justice. It is not fair for one lady to recommend to another a servant she would not keep herself. The benefit, too, to the servant herself is of small advantage, for the failings which she possesses will increase if suffered to be indulged with impunity. It is hardly necessary to remark, on the other hand, that no angry feelings on the part of a mistress towards her late servant should ever be allowed, in the slightest degree, to influence her so far as to induce her to disparage her maid’s character. 16 The Treatment of Servants is of the highest possible moment, as well to the mistress as to the domestics themselves. On the head of the house the latter will naturally fix their attention ; and if they perceive that the mistress’s conduct is regulated by high and correct principles, they will not fail to respect her. If, also, a benevolent desire is shown to promote their comfort, at the same time that a steady performance of their duty is exacted, then their respect will not be unmingled with affection, and well-principled servants will be still more solicitous to continue to deserve her favour. 17. IFages of Servants.—The following Table of the average yearly wages paid to domestics, with the various members of the household placed according to their rank, will serve to regulate the expenditure of an establish- ment :— The prices given will, of course, vary according to experience and locality, extent of duties, supply and demand. No Table could possibly be given which would not be subject to alteration under special circumstances, but taken as a general average these prices will be correct, and as reliable a guide as could possibly be given. MEN SERVANTS. When not found in Livery. When found in Livery. i jfioo and,upwards. Head Gardener (not in the house) .' „ £7oto£izo Under Gardener • I .. £4° to £45