5C4 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. Time.—hour, or rather longer. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1104.-MUTTON PUDDING. Ingredients.—About 2 lbs. of the chump end of the loin of mutton, weighed after being boned; pepper and salt to taste; suet crust made with milk (see Pastry), in the proportion of 6 oz. of suet to each pound ol flour; a very small quantity of minced onion (this may be omitted when the flavour is not liked.) Mode.—Cut the meat into rather thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt; line the pudding-dish with crust; lay in the meat, and nearly, but do not quite, fill it up with water; when the flavour is liked, add a Small quantity of minced onion; cover with crust, and proceed in the same manner as for beef-steak pudding, using the same kind of pudding-dish or basin. Time.—About 3 hours. Average Cost, 2s. 6<1. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. 1105.—RAGOUT OF COLD NECK OF MUTTON (.FV.—Ragout de Mouton.) ('Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of a cold neck or loin of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, a little flour, 2 onions sliced, £ pint of water, 2 small carrots, 2 turnips, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the mutton into small chops, and trim off the greater portion of the fat; put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in a little flour, add the sliced onions, and keep stirring till brown ; then put in the meat. When this is quite brown, add the water, and the carrots and turnips, which should be cut into very thin slices; season with pepper and salt, and stew till quite tender, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. When in season, green peas may be substituted for the carrots and turnips ; they should be piled in the centre of the dish, and the chops laid round. Time. — J hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 4d. Seasonable, with peas, from June to August. 1106-ROAST NECK OF MUTTON. CFr.—Collet de Mouton Roti.) Ingredients.—Neck of mutton; a little salt. Mode -—For roasting, choose the middle, or the best end, of the neck