226 Recipes for Cooking Fish. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 8d. per lb. Seasonable from June to March. Haunts of the Eel.—These are usually in mud, among weeds, unde/ roots or stumps of trees, or in holes in the banks or the bottoms of rivers. Here they olten grow to an enormous size, sometimes weighing as much as fifteen or sixteen pounds. They seldom come forth from their hiding places except in the night: and, in winter, bury themselves deep in the mud, on account of their great susceptibility of cold. 468.—EELS WITH TARTAR SAUCE. (Fr.—Anguilles a la Tartare.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of eels, 1 carrot, 1 onion, a little flour, 1 glass of sherry ; salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste; bread-crumbs, x egg, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.— Rub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan ; cut up the car- rot and onion, and stir them over the fire for five minutes; dredge in a little flour, add the wine and seasoning, and boil for half an hour. Skin and wash the eels, cut them into pieces, put them to the other ingredients, and simmer till tender. When they are done take them out, let them get cold, cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Put them oh a dish, pour sauce piquante over, and serve them hot. Time.—One hour and a half. Average Cost, 2s., exclusive of the sauce piquante. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient lor 5 or 6 persons. Voracity Of the Eel.—We find in a note upon Isaack Walton, by Sir John Hawkins, that he knew of eels, when kept in ponds, frequently destroying ducks. From a canal near his house at Twickenham he himself missed many young ducks ; and on draining, in order to clean it, great numbers of large eels were caught in the mud. When some of these were opened, there were found in their stomachs the undigested heads of the quacking tribe which had become their victims. 469.—MATELOTE OF EELS. (Fr.-Anguilles en Matelote.) Ingredients.—5 or 6 young onions, a few mushrooms, when obtainable ; salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste ; 1 laurel leaf, £ pint port wine, £ pint of medium stock, No. 273 ; butter and flour to thicken; 2 lbs. of eels. Mode.—Rub the stewpan with butter, dredge in a little flour, add the onions cut very small, slightly brown them, and put in all the other ingre- dients. Wash, and cut up the eels into pieces 3 inches long: put them in the stewpan, and simmer for half an hour. Make round the dish a border of croutons, or pieces of toasted bread; arrange the eels in a pyramid in the centre, and pour over the sauce. Serve very hot. Time.—J hour. Average Cost, 3s. for this quantity. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.