9g2 Recipes for >.Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. 2141.—RED CURRANT JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow £ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered on a fine day; weigh it, and then strip the currants from the stalks ; put them into a preserving-pan with sugar in the above proportion ; stir them, and boil them for about three-quarters of an hour. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Put the jam into pots, and, when cold, cover with oiled papers; over these put a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg; press the paper round the top of the pot, and, when dry, the covering will be quite hard and jam-pox. air-tight. Time.—£ hour, reckoning from the time the jam boils all over. Aver- age Cost, for a lb. pot, from 6d. to 8d. Sufficient.—Allow from 6 to 7 quarts of currants to make 12 i-lb. pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in July. 2142.—CURRANT AND RASPBERRY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of red currants allow £ lb. of raspberries, weighed after the stalks are removed, and 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Place the fruit in the above proportion in the preserving-pan, with y lb. of sugar to every lb. of fruit, stir and boil for three-quarters of an hour after the mixture boils fast; remove the scum as it rises. Put the jam into pots, and cover down by recipe No. 2141. Time.—§ hour. Average Cost, 8\d. per pot. Sufficient.—6 to 7 quarts of fruit to make 12 i-lb. pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make in July. 2143.-RED CURRANT JELLY. Ingredients.—Red currants; to every pint of juice allow £ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Have the fruit gathered in fine weather; pick it from the stalks, put it into a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and let it simmer gently until the juice is well drawn from the currants ; then strain them through a jelly-bag or fine cloth, and, if the jelly is washed very clear, do not squeeze them too much, as the skin and pulp from the fruit will be pressed through with the juice, and so make the jelly muddy. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow three-quarters of a lb. of loaf sugar; put these into a preserving-pan, set it over the fire, and keep stirring the jelly until it is done, carefully removing every particle of scum as it rises, using a wooden or silver spoon for the purpose, as