56 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. 93. Fletcher’s No. 4 Gas Cooking Range.—A full exposition of the gas-cooking ranges, some twelve in number, manufactured and supplied by Mr. Fletcher will be found in his “ List of Gas-heating and Labour-saving Appliances, Domestic Section,” always to be had for 4d. Of these ranges No. 4, which is illustrated in page 55, appears to be the most suitable for family use, being of suffi- cient capacity to cook for ten persons, the price, complete, being £y. ( 1.) Size and Construction.— The outside size of the No. 4 indestructible cooking range, as shown in the accompanying illustration, is: height, 36 inches, and width and depth, 23 inches; the size of the door opening in front is 24 inches by 15^ inches; and the depth of the oven, from back to front inside, 15J inches. It is made entirely of cellular cast iron, jacketed all over with slag wool. It can be supplied with double casing and hot-air jacket (without slag wool) if desired, to order, at the same price, namely £7, or £8 if the oven is lined with porcelain enamel. It is fitted at the top with Fletcher’s patent reversible grill and gas rings, necessary for grilling, boiling, toasting, &c., and the top of the oven itself forms a hot plate. The boiling burners are four in number. The consumption of gas per hour, when in full operation, is stated to be about 22 cubic feet. (2.) Advantages.— The oven constitutes a most perfect browning chamber, and requires no deflectors or solid shelves for browning pastry, and is fully heated for pastry, &c., in about five minutes. The inner part of the range, or inner casing, is cast in panels, to prevent cracking. No sheet iron is used in any con- structive part, and, consequently, liability to rust is entirely avoided. The inside, even after long and careless use, can be made equal to new by the simple appli- cation of a coat of limewash. Any part broken by accident can be replaced at once from stock, all parts being screwed together. The taps and fittings are made of extra strength, and the range has the merit of being simple, substantial, and well made in every respect, and the only kind that will stand wet and rough usage without injury. (3.) Hot-water Apparatus. —It may be objected that the range just described has no boiler, and therefore is not so desirable for family use as ranges that are fitted with this useful appliance. In gas ranges, however, the boiler is made separately, but can be placed at the side of any of the gas ranges made by Mr. Fletcher. This boiler only requires a space of y\ inches, and therefore occu- pies but little room. Its other dimensions are: height, 24J inches; and depth from back to front, 18J inches. The boiler itself, which is strongly made, is of polished copper, tinned inside; it holds four gallons, and is supported by a cast iron stand. The gas is applied below the boiler, and the lighting hole is in front, immediately under the tap. 94. Other Gas Apparatus.—Among other gas apparatus for household use supplied by Mr. Fletcher may be named his Instantaneous Water Heaters for baths, price 50s. and 90s. ; and for lavatories, price 20s. ; his Patent Quick Washer, made in three sizes, supplied at 52s., 63s., and 85s. respectively in galvanised or tinned iron, and at 84s., 105s., and 130s. respectively if in copper tinned inside; and his Patent Clothes Dryer and Airer, price 72s.; all heated by gas, and invalu- able in a large family. Nor must Mr. Fletcher’s patent gas attachment to range ovens be omitted, a simple contrivance, consisting of a burner and a false latch for keeping the oven door about half an inch open, by which any ordinary range can be converted with perfect ease and quickly into a gas range, The price for the burner and latch combined is ys. 6d.; and grid shelves for pastry are made to order, any size, at the rate of 2d. per inch in width. 95. Mow to Use Gas.—Mr. Fletcher’s pamphlet, entitled, "Economy and other Advantages of Gas as a Fuel for General Domestic Use," has been