Seasonable at any time. I German Puddings. -841 1776.—GERMAN PUDDING. (Fv — Creme au Caramel.) Ingredients.—2 teaspoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, the rind of half a lemon, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Boil the milk with the lemon-rind until well-flavoured; then strain it, and mix it with the flour, arrowroot, butter, and sugar. Boil these ingredients for a few minutes, keeping them well stirred ; then take them off the fire and mix with them the eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and added separately. Boil some sugar to candy ; line a mould with this, put in the brandy, then the mixture; tie down with a cloth, and boil for rather more than 1 hour. When turned out, the brandy and sugar make a nice sauce. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1777— DAMPFNUDELN, OR GERMAN PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, 5 eggs, 2 small tablespoon- fuls of yeast, 2 tablespoonfuls of finely-pounded sugar, milk, a very little 4 salt. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, into which put the yeast, and rather more than a quarter of a pint of warm milk; make this into a batter with the middle of the flour, and let the sponge rise in a warm temperature. When sufficiently risen, mix the eggs, butter, sugar, and salt with a little more warm milk, and knead the whole well together with the hands, beating the dough until it is perfectly smooth, and it drops from the fingers. Then cover the basin with a cloth, put it in a warm place, and when the dough has nicely risen, knead it into small balls; butter the bottom of a deep saute-pan, strew over some pounded sugar, and let the dampfnudeln be laid in, but do not let them touch one another; then pour over sufficient milk to cover them, put on the lid, and let them rise to twice their original size by the side of the fire. Now place them in the oven for a few minutes, to acquire a nice brown colour, and serve them on a napkin, with custard sauce, flavoured with vanilla or a compote of any fruit that may be preferred. Time.—£ to 4 hour for the sponge to rise; 10 to 15 minutes for the puddings to rise; 10 minutes to bake them in a brisk oven. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 10 or 12 puddings.