859 Orange Tart. Time.—Rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from November to May. 1827.—OMNIBUS PUDDING. Ingredients.—6 oz. of fine flour, 6 oz. of shred suet, 6 oz. of stoned raisins, 4 oz. of golden syrup, £ pint of milk. Mode.—Thoroughly incorporate the above ingredients, butter a basin, pour in the mixture, tie a floured cloth over it, and boil for 3^ hours. Serve with brandy sauce. Time.—3^ hours. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1828.—SEVILLE ORANGE PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 Seville oranges, 6 oz. of fresh butter, 12 almonds, £ lb. of sifted sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, 8 eggs. Mode.—Boil the oranges and chop them finely, taking out all the pips. Put the butter, the almonds, blanched and chopped, and the sugar, into a saucepan, to which add the orange pulp and the lemon- juice. Put it on a hot place to warm, mixing all together until the butter is thoroughly melted. Turn the mixture out, let it get cold, then add the egg6, which should be well whipped. Put all into a baking-dish, bordered with puff-paste, and bake from half hour to 40 minutes, according to the heat of the oven. - Time.—£ hour to 40 minutes. Average Cost, is. gd. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from November to May. 1829.—ORANGE TARTS. Ingredients.—Oranges, sugar, puff-paste. Mode.—Pare some oranges very thin, soak them in water for three days, changing the water frequently. Boil them until soft. When cold, cut a thick slice from the top and bottom, and the rest in thin slices ; line tart dishes with puff paste, and fill them with layers of sugar and orange alternately. Seasonable from November to May. 1830.—PARADISE PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 3 apples, | lb. of bread-crumbs, 3 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of currants, salt and grated nutmeg to taste, the rind of ^ lemon, £ a wineglassful of brandy. Mode.—Pare, core, and mince the apples into small pieces, and mix them with the other dry ingredients : beat up the eggs, moisten the mix-