*5° Recipes for Soups. 3oi._CHESTNUT SOUP. (Fr.—Puree de Marrons.) Ingredients.—ij lb. of Spanish chestnuts, £ pint of cream, seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne and mace ; 1 quart of stock, No. 273. Mode.—Take the outer rind from the chestnuts, and put them into a large pan of warm water. As soon as this becomes too hot for the fingers to remain in it, take out the chestnuts, peel them quickly, and immerse them in cold water, and wipe and weigh them. Now cover them with good stock, and stew them gently for rather more than £ of an hour, or until they break when touched with a fork ; then drain, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve reversed ; add sufficient stock, mace, cayenne and salt, and stir it often until it boils, and put in the cream. The stock in which the chestnuts are boiled can be used for the soup, when its sweetness is not objected to, or it may, in part, be added to it; and the rule is, that £ lb. of chestnuts should be given to each quart of soup. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average Cost, is. per quart. Seasonable from October to February. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Chestnut.—This fruit is said, CHESTNUT. by some, to have originally come from Sardis, in Lydia; and by other.s, from Castanca, a city of Thessaly, front which it takes its name. By the ancients it was much used as a food, and is still common in France and Italy, to which countries it is, by some, considered indigenous. In the southern part of the European continent, it is eaten both raw and roasted. The tree was introduced into Britain by the Romans ; but it only flourishes in the warmer parts of the island, the fruit rarely arriving at maturity in Scotland. It attains a great age, as well as an immense size. As a food, it is the least oily and most farinaceous of all the nuts, and, therefore, the easiest of digestion. The tree called the horse-chestnut is very different, although its fruit very much resembles that of the other. Its “nuts,” though eaten by horse? and some other animals, are unsuit- able for human food. 302.—COCOA-NUT SOUP. (Fr— Potage au Coco.) Ingredients.— 6 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz. of rice flour, ^ a tea- spoonful of mace, seasoning to taste of cayenne and salt, £ of a pint of boiling cream, 3 quarts of medium stock, No. 273. Mode.—Take the dark rind from the cocoa-nut, and grate it down small on a clean grater; weigh it, and allow, for each quart of stock, 2 oz. of the cocoa-nut. Simmer it gently for 1 hour in the stock, which should then be strained closely from it, and thickened for table. Time.—hours. Average Cost, is. id. per quart. Seasonable in Autumn. Sufficient for 10 persons. The Cocoa-nut.— This is the fruit of one of the palms, than which it is questionable if there is any ether species of tree marking, in itself, so abundantly the goodness of Providence, in making