Apple Dumplings. 8n 1702.—APPLE CHEESECAKES. ingredients.—£ lb. of apple-pulp, £ lb. of sifted sugar, \ lb. of butter, 4 eggs, the rind and juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Pare, core and boil sufficient apples to make half a pound, when cooked; add to these the sugar, the butter, which should be melted, the eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites, and the grated rind and juice of x lemon; stir the mixture well; line some patty- pans with puff-paste, put in the mixture and bake about 20 minutes. Average Cost, for the above quantity, with the paste, is. 2d. Sufficient for about 18 or 20 cheesecakes. Seasonable from August to March. The Apple.—The most useful of all the British fruits is the apple, which is a native of Britain, and may be found in woods and hedges in the form ol the common wild crab, of which all our best apples are seminal varieties produced by culture or particular circumstances. In most temperate climates it is very extensively cultivated, and in Eng- land, both as regards variety and quantity, it is excellent and abundant. apple and blossom. Immense supplies are also imported from the United States and from France. The apples grown in the vicinity of New York are universally admitted to be the finest oi any; but unless selected and packed with great care, they are apt to spoil before reaching England. 1703.-BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. Ingredients.—6 apples, $ lb. of suet crust, No. 1684, sugar to taste. Mode.—Pare and take out the cores of the apples without dividing them; sweeten, and roll each apple in a piece of crust made by recipe No. 1684; be particular that the paste is nicely joined ; put the dump- lings into floured cloths, tie them securely, and put them into boiling water. Keep them boiling from half to three-quarters of an hour; re- move the cloths, and send them hot and quickly to table. Dumplings boiled in knitted cloths have a very pretty appearance when they come to table. The cloths should be made square, just large enough to hold one dumpling, and should be knitted in plain knitting, with very coarse cotton. Time.—f to I hour, or longer should the dumplings be very large. Average Cost, 1 \d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from August to March, but flavourless after the end of J anuary. Lambswool, or Lamasool.—This old English beverage is composed of apples mixed with ale and seasoned with sugar and spice. It takes its name from Latnaes abhal, which, in ancient British, signifies the day of apple-fruit, from being drunk on the apple feast in autumn. In France, a beverage, called by the Parisians raisinee, is made by boiling any given quantity of new wine, skimming it as often as fresh scum rises, and, when it is boiled to half its bulk, straining it. To this, apples,