Constituents of Food. 705 ' 1450. What Vegetarians Teach us.—One benefit that we are likely to reap from the labours of vegetarians is an increase in the number of available foods. It will not be denied that it is best for the nation and for the individual to make use of every food that is wholesome and attainable; nor will those who have thought at all about this matter hesitate to say that the foods in every-day use in this country, especially among the poorer classes, are lamentably few in number. Of the few foods in constant demand the price naturally increases, while other foods, far cheaper and quite as nourishing, meet with no sale at all. Many of the recipes in other parts of the book might, of course, be used by vege- tarians, since they contain no animal food ; and we propose to add here recipes for cocking pulse, the cereals and fruits, as well as for what -is often understood by vegetables. 1451. What is Vegetable ?—An English cook’s idea of vegetables is any- thing that can be served as an addendum to the meat course. It is unnecessary to point out that no person could live wholesomely on boiled potatoes and cab- bage, with a piece of bread. Vegetables include all vegetable food, and there is no reason why we should not bestow upon them some of the care in selection and cultivation that now is bestowed upon meat. A vegetarian would be very ill-fed at the average middle-class table; and the Englishman who fasts in Lent will probably be compelled, even if he do not desire, to submit to some amount of starvation, as well as to abstinence from certain kinds of food, because of the ignorance of English cooks. .But a vegetarian need submit to no starvation; the worst that will happen to him will be that he longs for the more highly- flavoured and more stimulating diet to which he has been accustomed. Being thus dependable on custom, it seems likely that, having in the past accustomed ourselves to one sort of food, we could in the future accustom ourselves to another, if sufficient reason were shown to convince us of an advantage to be gained. 1452. Constituents of Food.—It is hardly necessary to say that, whether one lives on animal or vegetable food, the same constituents must be present. Water, starch or sugar, fat, salts, and flesh-formers are not less demanded by one class of the community than by the rest. As for water, it is free to all; but it is worthy of notice that in most vegeta- rian cookery-books there is a large preponderance of soups, and stews, and porridges, all moist foods, containing much water, and therefore not calling for much water to accompany them. Vegetable food is not provocative of thirst to the same extent that animal food is. In most of the recipes, condiments and seasonings are sparingly used ; in some they are not used at all. We have, how- ever, in the few recipes that follow, added a usual amount of seasoning, since there are plenty of vegetarian cookery-books, and we should be glad to gain for our recipes the favour of the general public. 1453. Starch or Sugar is at all times a vegetable food, and is therefore used by all. The people who go without starch are those who live in the region of ice and snow, where plants cannot grow, and where a rigid vegetarian would soon have to give up the struggle of life. The prepared starches, such as corn* flour, arrowroot, sago and tapioca, are very cheap, and starch, in combination with other substances—in potatoes, flour, rice, oatmeal—is commoner still. 1454. Fat is rather a difficulty with some, who get over it by having recourse to butter, which, it is to be hoped, is always butter, and not butterine. But there is a small quantity of fat in cereals, and in many foods where it is not sus- pected. Vegetable oils are both palatable and cheap. There is olive oil, used for salads very sparingly in this country, very plentifully cn the Continent;