21 Daily Duties. It will be found an excellent plan to take an account of every article tvhicb comes into the house connected with housekeeping, and is not paid for at the time. The book containing these entries can then be compared with the bills sent in by the various tradesmen, so that any dis- crepancy can be inquired into and set right. An intelligent housekeeper will, by this means, too, be better able to judge of the average consumption of each article by the household ; and it that quantity be, at any time, exceeded, the cause may be discovered and rectified, if it proceed from waste or carelessness. 48. Cooking.—Although in the department of the cook, the housekeeper does not generally much interfere, yet it is necessary that she should possess a good knowledge of cooking, as, in many instances, it may be requisite for her to take the superintendence of the kitchen. As a rule, it may be stated, that the housekeeper, in those establishments where there is no house-steward or man- cook, undertakes the preparation of the confectionery, attends to the preserving and pickling of fruits and vegetables, and, in a general way, to the more difficult branches of the art of cookery. Much of these arrangements will depend, however, on the qualifications of the cook; for instance, if she be an able artiste, there will be no necessity for the housekeeper to interfere, except in the already noticed articles of confectionery, &c. On the contrary, if the cook be not so clever an adept in her art, then it will be requisite for the housekeeper to give more of her attention to the business of the kitchen than in the former case. It will be one of the duties of the housekeeper to attend to the marketing, in the absence of either a house-steward or man-cook. 49. Instruction in Cookery.—Happily it is now the fashion for all young people to learn something of the art of cooking, and we hold it an ex- cellent thing for them, no matter to what class they belong, for at some time of their life it is almost sure to be of use. Many young officers’ wives who have gone abroad would gladly testify to the fact that their knowledge in this matter has been of real value in many places where cooks, if obtainable at all, were anything but good ones, whom they could not have taught without having had practical instruction themselves. A great many, too, who do not actually have to cook anything, are glad that they have the power of holding their own with their cooks, who are sometimes inclined to wish to have too much their own way, feeling that they can set them right if wrong, while a mistress who knows nothing of cooking is powerless. Many more reasons could be given why girls should learn. But to return to the housekeeper: it is her duty very often to give this instruction to the daughters of the house, or sometimes to go with them to the cook for lessons. Young girls, as a rule, are very ready and willing to learn anything out of the usual course of study, and for them to leave their books or music to go down into the kitchen and make a tart or a pudding is more pleasure than work to many. But the housekeeper, if this branch of their education is committed to her charge, should see that they do not spend all their time in making pretty dishes, but employ a good part of it in really practical and useful work. 50. The Daily duties of a Housekeeper are regulated, in a great measure, by the extent of the establishment she superintends. She should, how- eVl”r' r*se early, and see that all the domestics are duly performing their work, and that everything is progressing satisfactorily for the preparation of the break- fast for the household and family. After breakfast, which, in large establish- ments, she will take in the “ housekeeper's-room,” with the lady’s-maid, butler, and valet, and where they will be waited on by the still-room maid, she will, on various days set apart for each purpose, carefully examine the household linen, with a view to its being repaired, or to a further quantity being put in hand t0vTif ™ac*e; she will also see that the furniture throughout the house is well rubbed and polished; and will, besides, attend to all the necessary details of marketing and ordering gocds from the tradesmen.