g2o Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. 1964.—A VERY SIMPLE APPLE CHARLOTTE. Ingredients.—9 slices of bread-and-butter, about 6 good-sized apples, 1 tablespconful of minced lemon-peel, 2 tablespoonfuls of juice, moist sugar to taste. Mode.— Butter a pie-dish ; place a layer of bread-and-butter, without the crust, at the bottom ; then a layer of apples, pared, cored and cut into thin slices; sprinkle over these a portion of the lemon-peel and juice, and sweeten with moist sugar. Place another layer of bread-and- butter, and then one of apples, proceeding in this manner until the dish is full; then cover it up with the peel of the apples, to preserve the top from browning or burning; bake in a brisk oven for rather more than three- quarters of an hour; take oft the peel, turn the charlotte on a dish, sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve. Time.—J hour. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons Seasonable from July to March. 1965.—CHARLOTTE RUSSE. (An Elegant Sweet Entremets.) Ingredients.—About 18 Savoy biscuits, f pint of cream, flavouring of vanilla, liqueurs or wine, 1 tablespoonful of pounded sugar, | oz. of isinglass or gelatine. Mode.—Procure about 18 Savoy biscuits, or ladies’-fingers, as they are sometimes called ; brush the edges of them with the white of an egg, and line the bottom of a plain round mould, placing them like a star or rosette. Stand them upright all round the edge ; carefully put them so closely together that the white of the egg connects them firmly, and place this case in the oven for about 5 minutes, just to dry the egg. Whisk the cream to a stiff froth, with the sugar, flavouring and melted isinglass ; fill the charlotte with it, cover with a slice of sponge-cake cut in the shape of the mould; place it in ice, where let it remain till ready for table ; then turn it on a dish, remove the mould, and serve. One tablespoonful of liqueur of any kind or 4 tablespoonfuls of wine would nicely flavour the above proportion of cream. For arranging the biscuits in the mould, cut them to the shape required, so that they fit in nicely, and level them with the mould at the top, that, when turned out, there may be something firm to rest upon. Great care and attention is required in the turning out :>f this dish, that the cream does not burst the case ; and the edges of the biscuits must have the smallest quantity of egg brushed over them, or it would stick to the mould, and so prevent the charlotte from coming away properly.