Men Servants' Duties. 1466 3249. Carriages are chosen according to taste and family use, but although a closed one, there is nothing more popular than a brougham. Ladies usually prefer Victorias to any other kind of open carriage, but some like the old-fashioned large open carriages, which are capable of holding more occupants. For gentlemen’s use, mail and other phaetons are those generally chosen, and for the country, dog carts and waggonettes. Carriages being valuable and costly have to be most carefully dealt with. They should be carefully cleaned before putting away, and the coach-house should be perfectly dry and well ventilated, for the wood-work swells with moisture ; it shrinks with heat, unless the timber has undergone a long course of seasoning; it should also have a dry floor, a boarded one being recom- mended. It must be removed from the ammoniacal influence of the stables, from open drains and cesspools, and other gaseous influences likely to affect the paint and varnish. When the carriage returns home, it should be carefully washed and dried, and that, if possible, before the mud has time to dry on it. This is done by first well slushing it with clean water, so as to wash away all particles of sand, having first closed the sashes to avoid wetting the linings. The body is then gone carefully over with a soft mop, using plenty of clean water, and penetrating every corner of the carved work, so that not an atom of dirt remains ; the body of the carriage is then raised by placing the jack under the axletree, and raising it so that the wheel turns freely ; this is now thoroughly washed with the mop until the dirt is removed, using a wash-brush for corners where the mop does not penetrate. Every particle of mud and sand removed by the mop, and afterwards with a wet sponge, the carriage is wiped dry, and, as soon after as possible, the varnish is carefully polished with soft leather, using a little sweet oil for the leather parts, and even for the panels, so as to check any tendency of the varnish to crack. Stains are removed by rubbing them with the leather and sweet oil ; if that fails, a little Tripoli powder mixed with the oil will be more successful. 3250. In preparing the carriage for use, the whole body should be rubbed over with a clean leather and carefully polished, the iron-work and joints oiled, the plated and brass-work occasionally cleaned—the one with plate- powder, or with well-washed whiting mixed with sweet oil, and leather kept for the purpose—the other with rottenstone mixed with a little oil, and applied with- out too much rubbing, until the paste is removed; but, if rubbed every day with the leather, little more will be required to keep it untarnished. The linings require careful brushing every day, the cushions being taken out and beaten, and the glass sashes should always be bright and clean. The wheel-tires and axletree are carefully seen to, and greased when required, the bolts and nuts tightened, and all the parts likely to get out of order overhauled. These duties, however, are only incidental to the coachman’s office, which is to drive ; and much of the enjoyment of those in the carriage depends on his proficiency in his art—much also of the wear of the carriage and horses. He should have sufficient knowledge of the construction of the carriage to know when it is out of order—to know, also, the pace at which he can go over the road he has under him without risk- ing the springs, and without shaking those he is driving too much. 3251. Driving.—Having, with or without the help of the groom or stable- boy, put his horses to the carriage, and satisfied himself, by walking round them, that everything is properly arranged, the coachman proceeds to the off-side of the carriage, takes the reins from the back of the horses, where they were thrown, buckles them together, and, placing his foot on the step, ascends to his box, having his horses now entirely under control. In ordinary circumstances, he is jot expected to descend, for where no footman accompanies the carriage, the