Chicken Patties. 643 fry them a pale brown, put them before the fire, then dip the cutlets into clarified butter mixed with the yolk of an egg, cover with bread-crumbs seasoned, in the above proportion, with lemon peel, mace, salt and cayenne; fry them for about 5 minutes, put each piece on one of the sippets, pile them high in the dish, and serve with the following sauce, which should be made ready for the cutlets. Put the butter into a stew- pan, add the shalots, carrot, herbs, mace and peppercorns; fry for 10 minutes, or rather longer; pour in half a pint of good gravy, made of the chicken bones, stew gently for 20 minutes, strain it, and serve. Tomato or any other sauce may be used. Time.—5 minutes to fry the cutlets; 35 minutes to make the gravy. Average Cost, exclusive of the chicken, 9d. Seasonable at any time. Eggs for Hatching.—Eggs intended for hatching should be removed as soon as laid, and placed in bran in a dry, cool place. Choose those that are near of a size ; and, as a rule, avoid those that are equally thick at both ends—such, probably, contain a double yolk, and will come to no good. Eggs intended for hatching should never be stored longer than a month, as much less the better. Nine eggs may be placed under a Bantam hen, and as many as fifteen under a Dorking. The odd number is considered preferable, as more easily packed. It will be as well to mark the eggs you give the hen to sit on, so that you may know if she lays any more ; if she does, you must remove them, for, if hatched at all, they would be too late for the brood. If dur- ing incubation an egg should be broken, remove it, and take out the remainder, and cleanse them in luke-warm water, or it is probable the sticky nature of the contents of the broken egg will make the others cling to the hen's feathers ; and they, too, may be fractured. Hens Sitting —Some hens are very capricious as regards sitting : they will make a great fuss, and keep pining for the nest, and when they are permitted to take to it, they will sit just long enough to addle the eggs, and then they’re off again. The safest way to guard against such annoyance, is to supply the hen with some hard-boiled eggs; if she sits on them a reasonable time, and seems steadily inclined, like a good matron, you may then give her proper eggs, and let her set about the busine-s in earnest. 1342.-CHICKEN OR FOWL PATTIES. (Fr — Petits Pates a la Volaille.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast chicken or fowl; to every 4 lb. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 tablespoon- fuls of veal gravy, | teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, cayenne, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour ; puff paste. Mode.—Mince very small the white meat from a cold roast fowl, after removing all the skin; weigh it, and to every quarter of a lb. of meat allow the above proportion of minced ham. Put these into a stew- pan with the remaining ingredients, stir over the fire for 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour, taking care that the mixture does not burn. Roll out some puff-paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness; line the patty- pans with this, put upon each a small piece of bread, and cover with another layer of paste; brush over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a brisk oven for about a quarter of an hour. When done, cut a round piece out of the top, and with a small spoon, take out the bread (be