Suet Pudding. 885 Mode.—Chop the suet very finely, after freeing it from skin, and mix it well with the flour; add the salt and pepper (this latter ingredient may be omitted if the flavour is not liked), and make the whole into a smooth paste with the above proportion of milk or water. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, or put it into a buttered basin and boil from 2^ to 3 hours. To enrich it, substitute 3 beaten eggs for some of the milk or v'ater and increase the proportion of suet. Time.—2^ to 3 hours. Average Cost, 5d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—When there is a joint roasting or baking, this pudding may be boiled in a long shape, and then cut into slices a few minutes before dinner is served ; these slices should be laid in a dripping-pan for a minute or two, and then browned before the fire. Most children like this accompaniment to roast meat. Where there is a large family of children, and the means of keeping them are limited, it is a most economical plan to serve up the pudding before the meat ; as, in this case, the consumption of the latter article will be much smaller than it otherwise would be. 1887.—PUDDING A LA VENETIENNE. Ingredients.—4 pint of any clear jelly, fresh fruit, sponge-cake, ratifia, 1 glass of sherry, 1 glass of brandy, £ glass of noyeau, dried candied fruits, 1 pint of milk, 8 yolks of eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of gelatine, 1 glass of Maraschino. Mode.—Ornament the top of a jelly mould with the clear jelly, setting in any fresh fruit that is in season, such as cherries, grapes, strawberries, &c. When cold and firm, fill the mould lightly v'ith alternate layers of dried candied fruit in small pieces and sponge-cake, ratafia and macaroons goaked in sherry, brandy and noyeau. Make a custard with 1 pint of milk, 8 yolks of eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, and when cold add gelatine and 1 glass of Maraschino. Set it on ice until wanted ; when quite cold turn it out. t888.—A NICE SUET PUDDING. Ingredients.—Take I teacupful of suet, 1 of milk, 1 of golden syrup, I of raisins, a teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to stiffen to a thick batter. Mode.—Mix the above ingredients well together, and boil or steam 4 hours. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, 3d. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1889.-VEAL SUET PUDDING. Ingredients.—^ lb. of veal suet, 1 quart of rich milk, \ lb. of bread- f rumbs, \ lb. of currants, 3 eggs, sugar to taste.