The Side-board. 1311 2984. The cloth should be amply able to cover the table and hang down at least half a yard upon each side all round, and as we have said before should be of good quality, spotlessly clean, folded in proper folds, and as smooth as possible. The way to fold a tablecloth is to double it in half lengthwise, then double this again in the same manner; now place the two ends together, lay the cloth thus doubled on a table, and fold over and over in small portions until it is of the width of about six or seven inches. Always refold a tablecloth in its original folds; any deviation from this rule will cause it to present a most un- sightly appearance. It may be kept in a tablecloth holder, made of American cloth, something like a music roll, and placed in a side-board drawer. If possible, every mistress of a household should possess herself of a press; it is invaluable for its economy, and will soon save its moderate price in the washing-bill; so often table-napkins are merely unfolded and crushed, but otherwise are unsoiled, and to smooth them is difficult by merely refolding them. The tablecloth and serviettes should always be good. It is great folly to buy inferior house linen at all, but common tablecloths for every-day family use are a mistake. They do not last any longer than the good ones : indeed, not nearly so long; and no matter whether your fare be sumptuous or not, your tablecloth will always get a tolerable share of attention from the persons dining. Out in the kitchen they are allowable, for the reason that as a rule servants’ ways and habits at table are not as our ways, and tablecloths will get cut and otherwise damaged. The number of your table- cloths must of course be in accordance with the size of your household, but at any rate provide a sufficiency. There should be a breakfast-cloth proper ; never make one cloth do duty for breakfast and dinner too. 2985. The serviettes or table napkins should be neatly and taste- fully folded when first put on the table, although afterwards in ordinary family use they may be put into rings. We give instructions and illustrations showing many ways of making these useful articles an ornament to the table, on pages 1313 to 1316. It is a good plan to place them upon the table first so that one can aportion the space allowed for each person and make the napkins equi-distant, and in laying a dinner-table the roll or piece of bread is put in the folds. 2986. Everything needed in laying a cloth should be first brought into the room in which the table is to be laid, and what you are about to partake of should be your guide as to what you require. For instance if fish is to be served then fish-eaters must be placed to each person, or failing these, two extra forks may be given. In the same way when soup is to be served then put on the necessary spoons at the right side, while the other courses must determine what knives and forks will be needed. The same rule applies to the glasses put upon the table, always to the right hand of each person. If you give three wines then put three glasses of the proper kinds, if only one, then put the one glass, and if none, only the tumblers which may serve for either water or beer. It is only in hotels that everything is laid irrespective of what may be ordered. Salt is a necessary ac- companiment to every meal and it is a great convenience to have plenty of small salt-cellars, one to each person, or one between two, to avoid the trouble of passing; pepper, mustard, &c., may also be placed upon the table or handed round by the servants, but as the serving of one meal does not apply to another we must speak separately in their order of the different tables—Breakfast, Luncheon, Dinner, Tea and Supper. 2987. The side-board for all meals should be covered with a clean white cloth and all that is wanted for each meal—in addition to what is placed upon the table—that can be brought into the dining-room, should there be ready for use, with the addition of knives, forks, glasses, &c., in case such may be required, but as the side-board will have to be laid differently for different meals, it will be best