1575 Scarlet Fever. case, and then it is used to conceal ignorance. Scarlet fever may be very mild, or malignant, or latent. The period of incubation is generally about a week, but may be only twenty-four hours. Symptoms.—1. Mild Scarlet Fever.—The onset is sudden; there is sore throat with tenderness at the angles of the lower jaw, and stiffness at the back of the neck ; vomiting is very common and chiefly so in children ; shivering and rigors come on and occasionally convulsions in young children. The temperature rapidly rises and will go up to 104° or 105°; the pulse is very quick, the tongue is covered with a thin white fur; there is thirst and loss of appetite. This stage lasts from twelve to thirty hours, and then a rash comes out. Sometimes the earlier symptoms are so slight that the rash is the first thing noticed. The rash consists of small scarlet dots, almost running together so as to give a flush all over the skin ; the colour disappears on pressure, but rapidly re-appears when the pressure is removed. It generally appears at first on the sides of the neck and upper part of the chest and in the bends of the joints ; it then spreads down- wards and is found to come out last on the legs ; it begins to fade on the fourth or fifth day and is generally quite gone within a week. The sore throat is always present to a degree ; there is redness and swelling of the tonsils and soft palate, so that it is very painful to swallow, while the glands beneath the jaw also swell and are painful. The temperature is generally higher than in measles, and much higher than in diphtheria, but it rarely exceeds 105° ; the fall of the temperature is usually on the sixth or seventh day, but it may be earlier or it may be prolonged. In no fever is the pulse quicker than in this disorder, and it may be 140 or 160 in a minute. Moderate delirium and headache are often present in these cases. After the rash has gone the epidermis is dry and harsh, and about the ninth or tenth day it begins to peel and is sometimes cast off in large flakes, and this desquamation or peeling may last a few days or occupy several weeks. 2. Malig- nant Scarlet Fever is characterised by an increased severity of the above symptoms ; there is great prostration, delirium and sleeplessness ; the rash does not always come out well; the face may be livid and stupor and coma come on, and end in death; the throat is ulcerated and there is much difficulty in swallowing. 3. Latent Scarlet Fever is when the disease is so mild that until the sequelae appear one is not aware of having had scarlet fever. There is no relation between the abundance of the rash and the danger to the patient. However mild the disease may be, the sequelae may come on with great severity ; one is just as liable to catch the fever from a mild case as from a severe one. 4. Sequela—After the fever has passed, there may follow a train of symptoms which are very in- constant in their character and of much danger to the patient. The throat may continue to be affected and the glands outside may be inflamed and swell, so that the child’s head seems encased in a “ collar of brawn : ” often these glands suppurate, and a large ulcerated surface is then seen. Deafness may come on and a discharge from the ear. Bronchitis and pneumonia are not so common as in measles. Sometimes convalescence is retarded by abscesses forming in various parts of the body; at other times there is a painful affection of the joints, which much resembles rheumatic fever. Renal dropsy is also one of the most usual sequelae, but it frequently varies in different epidemics; the face and loose parts of the skin are very pale and puffy, and this is best seen under the eyes and on the insteps ; the urine is scanty, and dark from containing blood ; there is often headache, loss of appetite and perhaps convulsions; this complication often comes on two or three weeks after the first appearance of the rash. Treatment.—Most cases recover in a week except those which are malignant, and those where the woman is at the same time pregnant; the latter condition much increases the danger, and hence women should then be extremely careful not to go near a case of scarlet fever. The mild cases must be nursed simply and there is no remedy which will cut short an attack. The patient must be put to