liyS Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs Time.—2% to 3^ minutes, according to the size of the egg. Sufficient.—Allow 2 eggs to each person. Seasonable at any time, but less plentiful in winter. 2627.-POACHED EGGS WITH CREAM. (Fr.— CEufs Poches a la Creme.) Ingredients.—I pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 4 teaspoonfuls ol vinegar, 4 fresh eggs, £ gill of cream, salt, pepper, and pounded sugar to taste, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Put the water, vinegar, and salt into a frying-pan, and break each egg into a separate cup ; bring the water, &c., to boil, and slip the eggs gently into it without breaking the yolks. Simmer them from 3 to 4 minutes, but not longer, and, with a slice, lift them out on to a hot dish, and trim the edges. Empty the pan of its contents, put in the cream, add a seasoning, to taste, of pepper, salt, and pounded sugar; bring the whole to the boiling-point ; then add the butter, broken into small pieces ; toss the pan round and round till the butter is melted; pour it over the eggs and serve. To ensure the eggs not being spoiled whilst the cream, &c., is preparing, it is z, good plan to warm the cream with the butter, &c.f before the eggs are poached, so that it may be poured over them imme- diately after they are dishea. Time.—3 to 4 minutes to poach the eggs, 5 minutes to warm the cream. Average Cost for the above quantity, 9d. Sufficient for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2628.—SCOTCH EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs Farcis au Jus.) Ingredients.—6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of forcemeat, No. 629, hot lard, | pint of go'/d orown gravy. Mode.- Boil the eggs for 10 minutes ; strip them from the shells, and cover them with forcemeat made by recipe No. 629 ; or substitute pounded anchovies for the ham. Fry the eggs a nice brown in boiling lard, drain them before the fire from their greasy moisture, dish them, and pour round them a quarter to half a pint of good brown gravy. To enhance the appearance of the eggs, they may be rolled in beaten egg and sprinkled with bread-crumbs : but this is scarcely necessary if they are carefully fried. The flavour of the ham or anchovy in the forcemeat must prepon- derate, as it should be very relishing. Time.—10 minutes to boil the eggs, 5 to 7 minutes to fry them Average Cost, is. 4d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time.