Veal Cutlets. 461 i02o.-BROIL.ED VEAL CUTLETS WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Veau a Pltalienne.). Ingredients.—Neck of veal, salt and pepper to taste, the yolk of 1 egg, bread-crumbs, | pint of Italian sauce. Mode.—Cut the veal into cutlets, flatten and trim them nicely; powder over them a little salt and pepper; brush them over with the yolk of an egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, then into clarified butter, and, afterwards, in the bread-crumbs again ; broil or fry them over a clear fire, that they may acquire a good brown colour. Arrange them in the dish alternately with rashers of broiled ham, and pour the sauce, made by recipe No. 720, in the middle. Time.—10 to 15 minutes, according to the thickness of the cutlets. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. The CalfS Head Club.—When the restoration of Charles II. took the strait waistcoat off the minds and morose religion of the Commonwealth period, and gave a loose rein to the long-compressed spirits of the people, there still remained a large section of society wedded to the former state of things. The elders of this party retired from public sight, where, unof- fended by the reigning saturnalia, they might dream in seclusion over their departed Utopia. The young bloods of this school, however, who were compelled to mingle in the world, yet detesting the politics which had become the fashion, adopted a novel expedient to keep alive their republican sentiments, and mark their contempt of the reigning family. They accord- ingly met, in considerable numbers, at some convenient inn, on the 30th of January in each year—the anniversary of Charles’s death—and dined together off a feast prepared from calves' heads, dressed in every possible variety of way, and with an abundance of wine drank toasts of defiance and hatred to the house of Stuart, and glory to the memory of old Noll Cromwell; and having lighted a large bonfire in the yard, the club of fast young Puritans, with their white handkerchiefs stained red in wine, and one of the party in a mask, bearing an axe, followed by the chairman, carrying a calf's head pinned up in a napkin, marchtd in mock procession to the bonfire, into which, with great shouts and uproar, they flung the enveloped head. This odd custom was continued for some time, and even down to the early part of this century it was customary for men of republican politics always to dine off calf’s head on the 30th of January. 1021.— VEAL CUTLETS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Veau a la Maintenon.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 lbs. of veal cutlets, egg and bread-crumbs, z tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Cut the cutlets about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, flatten them, and brush them over with the yolk of an egg; dip them into bread-crumbs and minced herbs, season with pepper and salt and grated nutmeg, and fold each cutlet in a piece of buttered paper. Broil them, and send them to the table with melted butter or a good gravy.