Seasonable at any time. Scotch Oat Cake. H39 peel. Put the Cakes into a good oven, and bake them from 25 to 30 minutes. Time.—25 to 30 minutes. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s, Sufficient to make 6 cakes. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Where the flavour of the caraway seeds is disliked, omit them, aftd add rather a larger proportion of candied peel. 2531.-SCOTCH OAT CAKE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of double-dressed Scotch oatmeal, ^ oz. of fat or butter, 1 pinch of carbonate of soda, about as much as will lay on a threepenny-bit. Mode.—Put about half a pound of meal into a pint basin, and have a teacup, into which put a small piece of butter, or lard, the size of a small hazel nut, and a pinch of carbonate of soda ; pour on this about half a teacup of hot water, stir till the butter and soda are melted, when mix quickly with the meal in the basin with the point of a knife, and when the mixture is quite well stirred, turn it out on a pasteboard, and mould it quite compactly, keeping it round and flat, and, with the knuckles, spreading it gradually, taking care lest it crack at the edges ; strew plenty of dry meal over it to roll it out with the crimped roller, and every now and then rub the surface with the flat of the hand to disengage all super- fluous meal; when rolled as thin as an old penny-piece, and pretty round, put the knife in the centre and divide it into three, and, having your griddle over the fire, lay the cakes on the hot iron, the plain side down, and as they get done, move them in succession from a cool spot to a hotter. You may know, by pressing the nail on the surface, if they be baked enough ; they will not be doughy. With care they can be baked in a greased frying-pan with a trivet underneath. Then move them from over the fire on to the toaster before the fire, and watch that they dry gradually, for they will soon burn; and as you take them from the fire, i,cand them carefully on edge till they are quite cold. While this is pro- ceeding over the fire mix more cakes, and, when one is ready to go to the toaster, fill up the vacant place. The thick cake commonly eaten by the working classes is made by putting a quantity of meal in a wooden bowl or can, adding cold water at discretion, mixing in a compact mass, and then kneading it into shape wholly with the knuckles : and then ar above described. Time.—10 minutes to bake. Average Cost, id. Sufficient to make 6 cakes.