Brawn Tin—Tongue Presser. 75 being turned to the right. The meat is thus chopped, and forced into the skin. In cutting suet the nozzle is not used. Plenty of flour should be used, and the suet and flour passed at the same time through the machine. Mincemeat and other ingredients, to be cut, are also passed through the machine, the nozzle not being required. The ptices of Messrs. S. Nye and Co.’s smaller machines for household use are as follows: with single row of knives, the “Eclipse,” in five sizes, at 8s. 6d., ios. 6d., 15s., 21s. and 35s. respectively. The "Gem,” 10s. 6d., and the “ Paragon,” in three sizes. An illustration of the of the Paragon Mincing Machine is given in page 74. With two rows of knives, the Patent Small Mincer or Masticator for the dinner-table, in three sizes, at 30s., 70s., and 210s. 142. The “ Enterprise” Meat Chopper.—For general family use it will be difficult to find any machine so desirable for family use either as regards efficiency or cheapness as the “ Enterprise" meat chopper, manu- factured by the “Enterprise” Manufacturing Company, Philadelphia, U.S.A An illustration of this machine in operation is given in page 74. It is attached to the table by means of a clamp furnished with two screws. The meat is cut into small lumps, fed into the chopper at the top, and then forced through the horizontal cylinder by means of a screw, by whose action it is brought to a plate perforated with numerous small holes, the plate being brought against a four bladed knife which is attached to the end of the screw. The pressure of the screw forces the meat into the small holes, where it is chopped off by the revolving knife, which latter makes four cuts for each hole at each revolution of the screw, the meat being forced through the holes when cut by the pressure of the screw. Everything contained in the meat, gristle, strings or sinews, must be cut by the knives before it passes through the plate, resulting in the cutting of the meat to a uniform size. When cut, the meat is thrust out of the machine in a perfect cascade of shreds. It is equally useful for cutting up vege- tables for soup; for vegetables thus cut into small pieces, and crushed besides, go to pieces more quickly in boiling ; and soup, which is sometimes wanted at short notice, can be more speedily and readily prepared. The juice which is expressed from the vegetables and retained in the cylinder of the machine, can be added to the soup, as it contains all the flavour of the vegetables, and is there- fore in itself an admirable flavouring. This chopper is made in different sizes, but No. 10, which will chop 1 lb. of meat per minute, is, perhaps, the most useful size for ordinary families. This size is sold at 12s. 6d. One perforated plate only is supplied; but plates with four sizes of holes are made: namely, J in., J in., J in., and | in., and sold at about is. each. 143. Brawn Tin.— This utensil is invaluable in preparing brawn or collard head. It is a tin cylinder placed on a foot or stand, into which the superfluous gravy escapes when the meat is placed in tne cylinder and put under pressure. For this purpose the bottom of the cylinder consists of a movable perforated plate. The cylinder is not soldered along the junction of the ends of the metal of which it is composed, but the ends overlap, and are movable, one over the other, to a certain extent.’ By this means the cylinder is rendered expansive and will expand from 6£ inches in diameter to 8 inches. Its form and principle are exhibited in the illustration given on page 74. It is sold at 7s. 144. Tongue or Brawn Presser.— This article may be used for making either brawn or collard head, like the brawn tin Iasi described, or it may be used for compressing boiled tongue into a round, in which shape it is most-conveniently sent to table, and moreover ensures an equal distribution of the fat and lean, which is not the case if the tengue be sent up uncompressed, when the greater part of the fat in the root of the tongue is sent away uneaten. There is a perfor- ated plate at the bottom through which the gravy escapes, and a flat plate acted