370 Various Modes of Cooking Meat. ROASTING. 835. Of the various Methods of Preparing Meat, Roasting is that which most effectually preserves and develops its flavour.| Meat is roasted by being exposed to the direct influence of the fire. This is done by placing the meat before an open grate, and keeping it in motion to prevent the scorching of any particular part. When meat is properly roasted, the outer layer of its albumen is coagulated, and thus pre- sents a barrier to the exit of the juice. In roasting meat, the heat must be strongest at first, and it should then be much reduced. To have a good juicy roast, therefore, the fire must be red and vigorous at the very commence- ment of the operation. In the most careful roasting, some of the juice is squeezed out of the meat: this evaporates on the surface of the meat, and gives it a dark brown colour, a rich lustre, and a strong aromatic taste. Besides these effects on the albumen and the expelled juice, roasting converts the cellular tissue of the meat into gelatine, and melts the fat out of the fat-cells. If a spit is used to support the meat before the fire, it should be kept quite bright. Sand and water ought to be used to scour it with, for brickdust and oil may give a dis- agreeable taste to the meat. When well scoured, it must be wiped quite dry with a dry clean cloth; and, in spitting the meat, the dry parts should be left untouched, so as to avoid any great escape of its juices. 836. Kitchens in large establishments are usually fitted with what are termed “ smoke-jacks.” By means of these, several spits, if required, may be turned at the same time. This not being, of course, necessary in smaller establishments, a roasting apparatus, more economical in its consumption of coal, is more frequently in use. bottle-jack, with wheel 837. The Bottle-jack, of which we here give and hook. an illustration, with the wheel and hook, and showing the precise manner of using it, is now commonly used in most kitchens. This consists of a spring enclosed in a brass cylinder, and requires winding up before it is used, and sometimes, also, during the operation of roasting. The joint Is fixed to an iron hook, which is suspended by a chain connected with a wheel, and which, in its turn, is connected with the bottle- jack. Beneath it stands the dripping-pan, which we have also engraved, together with the basting-ladle, the use of which latter should not be spared ; as there can be no good roast without good basting. ” Spare the rod, and spoil the child,” might easily be paraphrased into “ Spare the basting, and spoil the meat.” If the joint is small and light, and so turns unsteadily, this may be remedied by fixing to the wheel one of the kitchen weights. Sometimes this wheel is fixed inside a screen ; or a common meat-screen is DRIPPING PAN AND basting ladle. used such as is shown in the woodcut. This con- tains shelves for warming plates and dishes ; and with this, the roast may be very excellently cooked. The brighter it is kept the more the fuel is economized. In stirring the fire, or putting fresh coals on it, the dripping-pan should always