Soda Cake, ”43 of a spoon, the bowl being composed of open wire-work. Then sift in the flour, stirring as lightly as possible till all is mixed in. Put into a well- buttered tin and a brisk oven immediately. Time.—£ to f hour. Average Cost, gd. Seasonable at any time. 2539 —TO MAKE SMALL SPONGE CAKES. Ingredients.—The weight of 5 eggs in flour, the weight of 8 in poundeo loaf sugar; flavouring to taste. Mode.—Let the flour be perfectly dry, and the sugar well pounded and sifted. Put the eggs and the sugar into a basin together, and set it over a saucepan of hot water. Whisk them until they are white and creamy, about 15 or 20 minutes. Dredge in the flour very quickly, add the flavour- ing; butter the tins well, pour in the batter, sift a little sugar over the cakes, and bake them in rather a quick oven, but do not allow them to take too much colour, as they should be rather pale. This is a very good way to mix all sorts of light cakes with a good many eggs in. Remove them from the tins before they get cold, and turn them on their faces, where let them remain until quite cold, when store them away in a closed tin canister or wide-mouthed glass bottle. They are apt to stick to the tins, which should not be washed, but greased well with suet, over which fine flour or sugar is dusted. Time.—10 to 15 minutes in a quick oven. Average Cost, id. each. Seasonable at any time. 2540.—SODA CAKE FOR TEA. Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, i pint of milk, 2 small tea- spoonfuls of carbonate of soda, a few caraway seeds, about 6 oz. of currants and raisins, \ lb. of brown sugar, a little candied peel, 1 or 2 eggs. Mode.—Just warm the butter sufficiently to melt it, warm the milk also, and mix the carbonate of soda very smoothly in it. Put all the dry ingredients together first, then add the liquids ; bake at once, in tins well greased, in a rather slow oven, for an hour or more. If the butter is melted in the tins and just run round them, it answers every purpose. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Seasonable at any time. 2541.—STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. Ingredients.—Take 1 cup of sour milk, ^ teaspoonful of soda, J tea- spoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 cup of flour