Brandy Pudding. 823 Seasonable at any time 1728.—ORANGE BATTER PUDDING. ingredients.—4 eggs, 1 pint of mill., i£ oz. of loaf sugar, 3 table- spoonfuls of flour. Mode.—Make the batter with the above ingredients, put it into a well- buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 1 hour. As soon as it is turned out of the basin, put a small jar of orange marmalade all over the top, and send the pudding very quickly to table. Time.— I hour. Average Cost, with the marmalade, is. id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time; but more suitable for a winter pudding. 1729—baked bread pudding. Ingredients.—£ lb. of grated bread, 1 pint of milk, 4 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 4 oz. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of candied peel, 6 bitter almonds, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the milk into a stewpan, with the bitter almonds; let it infuse for a quarter of an hour ; bring it to the boiling point; strain it on to the bread-crumbs, and let these remain till cold ; then add the eggs, which should be well whisked, the butter, sugar and brandy, and beat the pudding well, until all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed; line the bot- tom of a pie-dish with the candied peel, sliced thin, put in the mixture and bake for nearly three-quarters of an hour. Time.—Nearly f hour. Average Cost, is. 4d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—A few currants may be substituted for the candied peel, and will be found an excellent addition to this pudding; they should be beaten in with the piixture, and not laid at the bottom of the pie-dish. 1730.-BRANDY PUDDING. Ingredients.—Dried cherries or raisins, 2 French rolls, 2 glasses of brandy, 4 eggs, £ lb. of sugar, £ of a nutmeg, £ of a lemon, 1 pint of new milk or cream, ratafias or macaroons. Mode.—Line a mould with jar raisins or dried cherries; then,with thin slices of roll, fill it with alternate layers of roll, ratafia and fruit, sprinkling in the 2 glasses of brandy. Make a custard of the remaining ingredients, pour it over the cakes and let it stand awhile. Then cover *vith a floured cloth and boil 1 hour. Serve with sauce round. Time.—1| hour. Average Cost, ?.s. Sufficient for 6 persons/