“37 Snow Cake. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. 2527. -SNOW CAKE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of tous-les-mois, arrowroot or cornflour, £ lb. of white pounded sugar, J lb. of fresh or washed salt butter, 1 egg, the juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream; then add the egg, previously well beaten, and then the other ingredients ; if the mixture is not light, add another egg, and beat for a quarter of an hour, until it turns white and light. Line a flat tin, with raised edges, with a sheet of buttered paper; pour in the cake, and put it into the oven. It must be rather slow, and the small fancy cake not allowed to brown at all. If the oven is properly heated, 1 to 1] hour will be found long enough to bake it. Let it cool a few minutes, then with a clean sharp knife cut it into small square pieces, which should be gently removed to a large flat dish to cool before putting away. This will keep for several weeks. Time.—1 to i£ hour. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. 2528. -SNOW CAKE. (A Genuine Scotch Recipe. Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of arrowroot, i lb. of pounded white sugar, £ lb. of butter, the whites of 6 eggs ,* flavouring to taste, of essence of almonds, vanilla or lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir in the sugar and arrowroot gradually, at the same time beating the mixture. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the other ingredients, and beat well for 20 minutes. Put in whichever of the above flavourings may be preferred ; pour the cake into a buttered mould or tin, and bake it in a moderate oven from 1 to hour. Time.—1 to hour. Average Cost, with the best Bermuda arrow- root, 2s. 9d.; with St. Vincent ditto, 2s. Sufficient to make a moderate-sized cake. Seasonable at any time. 2529.—SCRAP CAKES. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of leaf, or the inside fat of a pig; t\ lb. of flour, £ lb. of moist sugar, i lb. of currants, 1 oz. of candied lemon-peel, ground allspice to taste. Mode.—Cut the leaf, or flead, as it is sometimes called, into small