1318 General Observations on Breakfasts. again behind these the urn. When cocoa or chocolate is preferred to coffee, serve in precisely the same manner. There must be hot as well as cold milk always served where there are chocolate, cocoa and coffee. Small breakfast cruets should be placed at the corners of the table, these usually being tripod, holding salt, peppier and mustard. If both ends of the table are occupied with cups and saucers, then the various dishes intended for the meal are placed down the sides of the table ; but when the tea and coffee equipage only occupy one end, the chief breakfast dish is placed to the master of the house at the other. The bread and the butter dishes, with their respective knives laid to the right of them, are stationed opposite each other at convenient places. Let the-breakfast-set be neat and tasteful. A plant or flowers should occupy the centre of the table, and in the chapter upon “ Table Decorations ” we give some hints upon the subject. The first meal of the day should look a tempting one. To each person put a knife and fork, and a smaller knife for bread and butter, for which a small plate should be placed on the eft side. If fish is served, put fish-eaters in addition. A large plate may be given to each person when there is any cold meat or ham ; but if the breakfast dishes are only hot ones, the plates are usually put before the carver or helper of these dishes. Large joints, game and other pies, and sometimes a ham, are placed upon the sideboard, to be helped from thence, when the cold plates are piled there ready for use. Carving knives and forks should be put with these dishes also, when necessary, upon the table, and tablespoons should be placed at the corners of the table with the salts and cruets. Table-napkins for breakfast are somewhat smaller than those for dinner, though many use the same ; they are folded in some simple pattern when first placed upon the table, but, if used again, are generally run through a ring. When such is the case, place them to the left. Bring hot rolls to table covered with a napkin. Prepare toast, whether buttered or dry, not longer than five or six minutes before serving it, or the one will get soddened and greasy and the other hard and tough. Serve buttered toast on a hot-water plate covered, failing a proper toast-dish, or upon a plate standing over a basin filled with boiling water. Serve dry toast in its stand. All these little matters are worthy of the hostess’s profound consideration, for, as Michael Angelo once observed in respect of his unfailing perseverance in the little matters of his art, “ Trifles make perfection, and perfection, let me tell you, is no trifle.” Every dish brought to table should be garnished, i.e., decorated in an appro- priate manner, such as with “sippets” (toasted or fried pieces of bread cut into fanciful shapes), or if cold, parsley, beetroot, cresses, &c., according to the kinds of viands. Breakfast dishes are usually cold joints, hot nick-nacks and potted meats. Australian meats are also admissible, turned out of their tins, garnished and served cold. Marmalade, sardines and anchovies may be added, together with boiled, broiled, or fried fish. Indeed, anything that the housekeeper’s in- genuity can construe into a tempting little “ meat-offering” may here be given. Water-cress will be upon the breakfast-table of every lady who looks at the food of her family from a sanitary point of view. Arrange them, after having had them washed in a perfectly successful manner, in a glass or china dish (the china boats used for this purpose are pretty and convenient), picking each stem up separately, shaking it free from water, and putting bunches evenly all round the edge. 3002. The sideboard, covered with a clean white cloth, should have upon it, in addition to the joints of which we have before spoken, extra plates, knivea