1044 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. 2264.—OYSTER KETCHUP. Ingredients.—Sufficient oysters to fill a pint measure, 1 pint of sherry, 3 oz. of salt, 1 drachm of cayenne, 2 drachms of pounded mace. Mode.— Procure the oysters very fresh, and open sufficient to fill a pint measure ; save the liquor, and scald the oysters in it with the sherry; strain the oysters, and put them in a mortar with the salt, cayenne and mace; pound the whole until reduced to a pulp, then add it to the liquor in which they were scalded ; boil it again five minutes, and skim well; rub the whole through a sieve, and, when cold, bottle and cork closely. The corks should be sealed. Seasonable from September to April. Note.—Cider may be substituted for the sherry. 2265.—PONTAC KETCHUP OR SAUCE. (A Store Sauce.) Ingredients.— Ripe elderberries, vinegar, cloves, mace, peppercorns, shalots, anchovies. Mode.—Take ripe elderberries, as many as you wish to store, pick them from their stalks into a stone jar and just cover with strong good vinegar. Bake in a hot oven for 3 hours, then strain while hot. Boil the liquor thus obtained with the spices and shalots, sufficient being put in to give a considerable flavour. Taste the mixture, and, when found sufficiently flavoured, put half a pound of the best anchovies to every quart of the liquor; then stir and boil till these are dissolved, and move at once from the fire. Put up in pint bottles, cork closely and tie bladders over the top. Time.—From 3 to 4 hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable.—Prepare this in September. 2266.-WALNUT KETCHUP. Ingredients.—100 walnuts, 1 handful of salt, i quart of vinegar, £ oz. of mace, £ oz. of nutmeg, £ oz. of cloves, £ oz. of ginger, \ oz. of whole black pepper, a small piece of horseradish, 20 shalots, £ lb. of anchovies, 1 pint of port. Mode.—Procure the walnuts at the time when you can run a pin through them, slightly bruise and put them into a jar with the salt and vinegar; let them stand 8 days, stirring every day ; then drain the liquor from them and boil it, with the above ingredients, for about half an hour. It may be strained or not, as preferred, and, if required, a little more vinegar or wine can be added, according to taste. When bottled well, seal the corks. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, is. 5d. per pint.