Recipes for Beverages. 1208 2698.-ARRACK LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—1 lb. of sugar-candy, peel of £ a lemon, 1 quart of drrack. Mode.—Put the candy and lemon-peel into a quart of water and boil it. Let it get cold, remove the peel, and mix the arrack with the syrup. 2699—CARAWAY LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—£ lb. of loaf sugar, I oz. of caraway seeds, 1 quart oi brandy. Mode.—Boil the sugar in half a pint of water, and put in the caraway seeds while it is still hot, then add the brandy. Cork it immediately. Let it stand for a week, then filter and bottle it. Note.—Cinnamon liqueur is made in the same manner, with the same propor- tion of flavouring, but the latter may be boiled with the sugar, 2700.-CHERRY LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—1 lb. of morella, I lb. of black, sweet cherries, 12 cloves, £ oz. of whole cinnamon, 1 quart of brandy, £ lb. of sugar. Mode.—Split the cherries and remove the stones, crush the latter and put all into a large bottle, bruise the cloves, add the sugar and cinnamon, and pour in the brandy. Cork closely, let it stand a fortnight then strain and bottle. 2701. -CITRONEN LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—4 lemons, 1 quart of pure white spirit, 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.—Peel the lemons thinly and infuse the peel 10 or 12 days in the spirit, then filter it. Boil the sugar to a syrup in a quart of water, add it and the juice of the lemons to the spirit, mix thoroughly and bottle. 2702. -LIQUEUR OF CLOVES. Ingredients.—\ lb. of cloves, lb. of coriander seed, £ lb. of loai sugar, 24 fine black cherries, 1 quart of spirit. Mode.—Bruise the cloves and coriander seed, then infuse the whole ingredients for a month, after which strain and bottle. 2703.-CURACOA. Ingredients.—Peel of 6 Seville oranges and 1 lemon, \ oz. of whole cinnamon, \ oz. of coriander seed, | teaspoonful of saffron, 3 pints ot pure spirit, 2 lbs. of fine loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare the fruit thinly and put the peel into a jar with all the ingredients, save the sugar. Cover very closely, and set in a warm, dry place to infuse 6 weeks, then filter through fine flannel. Put the sugar