Quickly-made Gravy. 291 Mode.—Cut up the beef and ham into small pieces, and slice the vege- tables; take a jar, capable of holding 2 pints of water, and arrange there- in, in layers, the ham, meat, vegetables and seasoning alternately, filling up with the above quantity of water; tie down the jar or put a plate over the top, so that the steam may not escape ; place it in the oven, and let it remain there from 6 to 8 hours ; should, however, the oven be very hot less time will be required. When sufficiently cooked, strain the gravy; and when cold, remove the fat. It may be flavoured with ketchup, wines, or any other store sauce that may be preferred. Probably more water can be added in making the sauce. It is a good plan to put the jar in a cool oven over- night, to draw the gravy; and then it will not require so long baking the following day. Time.—From 6 to 8 hours, according to the oven. Average Cost, 7d. per pint. CELERY' Celery (Fr.—Celeri.)—As in the above recipe, the roots of celery are principally used in England for flavouring so-ups, sauces and gravies, and for serving with cheese at the termination of a dinner, and as an ingredient for salad. In Italy, however, the green leaves and stems are also employed for stews and soups, and the seeds are also more frequently made use of on the Continent than in our own islands. In Germany, celery is very highlv esteemed; and it is there boiled and served up as a dish by itself, as well as used in the composition of mixed dishes. We ourselves think that this mild aromatic plant might oftener be cooked than it is ; for there are very few nicer vegetable preparations brought to table than a well-dressed plate of stewed celery. 622.-A QUICKLY-MADE GRAVY. (.FV.—Bouillon a la Minute.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of shin of beef, A onion, £ carrot, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley and savoury herbs, a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, cayenne and mace to taste, f pint of water. Mode.—Cut up the meat into very small pieces; slice the onion with its skin, and the carrot, and put them into a small saucepan with the butter. Keep stirring over a sharp fire until they have taken a little colour, when add the water and the remaining ingredients. Simmer for half an hour, skim well, strain and flavour, when it will be ready for use. More water should be added to the ingredients, and they should be boiled again, as the goodness cannot be wholly extracted in half an hour. Time.—^ hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 5d. A Hundred Different Dishes.—Modern housewives know pretty well how much care and attention and foresight are necessary in order to serve well a little dinner for six or eight persons a dinner which will give credit to the menage, and satisfaction and pleasure to the guests. A quickly-made gravy, under some circumstances that we have known occur, will be useful to many Housekeepers when they have not much time for preparation. But, talking of speed, and time, fn ja repara5l2n’, a combination of all these must have been necessary for the feast at the wedding of Charles VI. of France. On that occasion, as Froissart the chronicler tells us, the art 1 cooking, with its innumerable paraphernalia of sauces, with gravy, pepper, cinnamon garlic, scallion, brains, gravy soups, milk potage and ragouts, had a signal triumph. The skilful cKef de I h,™*,0j?JoyaI h°usehold covered the great marble table of the regal palace with no less than a hundred different dishes, prepared in a hundred different ways.