Duties of Monthly Nurse. 1545 soil the nurse’s dress and unfit her to approach the bed, or take the infant with- out soiling its clothes. In small establishments, too, the nurse should herself fetch things she may re- quire, and not ring every time she wants anything; and she must, of course, not leave her invalid un- less she sees everything is comfortable; and then only for a few minutes. When downstairs, and in com- pany with the other ser- vants, the nurse should not repeat what she may have heard in her lady’s room, as much mischief may be done by a gossiping nurse. As in most houses the monthly nurse is usually sent for a few days before her services may be re- quired, she should see that all is in readiness; that there be no bustle and hurry at the time the con- finement takes place. She baby's basket. should keep two pairs of sheets thoroughly aired, as well as night-dresses, )1fnrle s' *c- &c- All the things which will be required to dress the baby e first time should be laid in the basket in readiness, in the order in which tney are to be put on; as well as scissors, thread, a few pieces of soft linen rag and two or three flannel squares. If a berceaunette is to be usad immediately, the nurse should ascertain that the mattresses, pillow, &c., are all well aired; and if not already done before she arrives, she should assist m covering and trimming it, ready for the little occupant. A monthly nurse should be handy at her needle, as, if she is in the house some time before the baby is born, she will require some work of this sort to occupy her time. 3473. Cleanliness and neatness. —A nurse should endeavour to keep her room as cheerful as possible, and always keep it clean and tidy. She should empty the chamber utensils as soon as used, and on no account put things under the bed. Soiled baby’s napkins should be rolled up and put into a pan, when they should be washed out every morning, and hung out to dry; they are then in a fit state to send to the laundress ; and should, on no account, be left dirty, but done every morning in tnis . way. The bedroom should be k;pt rather dark, particularly for the first week or ten days; of a regular temperature, and infant’s bath.