536 Recipes for Cooking Pork. gation, all eagerly push on to the mountains. In this manner village after village is collected, till the drove not unfrequently consists of several thousands. The feeding-ground has, of course, often to be changed, and the drove have sometimes to be driven many miles, and to a consider- able height up the mountain, before the whip gives the signal for the dispersion of the body and the order to feed, when the herdsman proceeds to form himself a shelter, and look after his own comfort for the rest of the day. As soon as twilight sets in, the whip is again heard echoing the signal for muster; and in the same order in which they were collected, the swine are driven back, each group tailing off to its respective sty, as the herd approaches the villages, till, the last grunter having found his home, the drover seeks his cottage and repose. 1177.—PORK CUTLETS OR CHOPS. (Fr.— Cotelettes de Pore Grillees aux Tomates, a la Sauce Piquante.) Ingredients.—Loin of pork, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the cutlets from a delicate loin of pork, bone and trim them neatly, and cut away the greater portion of the fat. Sea-son them with pepper ; place the gridiron on the fire ; when quite hot, lay on the chops and broil them for about a quarter of an hour, turning them 3 or 4 times, and be particular that they are thoroughly done, but not dry. Dish them, sprinkle over a little fine salt, and serve plain, or with tomato sauce, sauce piquante, or pickled gherkins, a few of which should be laid round the dish as a garnish. Time.—About hour. Average Cost, rod. per lb. for chops. Sufficient.—Allow 6 for 4 persons. Seasonable from'October to March. 1178.—PORK CHOPS. (Fr.—Cotelettes de Pore Pannes a la Pur6e de Pommes de Terre.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—Loin or fore-loin of pork, egg and bread-crumbs, salt and pepper to taste; to every tablespoonful of bread-crumbs allow f tea- spoonful of minced sage ; clarified butter. Mode.—Cut the cutlets from a loin or fore-loin of pork; trim them the same as mutton cutlets, and scrape the top part of the bone. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, with which have been mixed minced sage and a seasoning of pepper and salt; drop a little clarified butter on them, and press the crumbs well down. Put the frying- pan on the fire, put in some lard ; when this is hot, lay in the cutlets, and fry them a light brown on both sides. Take them out, put them before the fire to dry the greasy moisture from them, and dish them on mashed potatoes. Serve with them any sauce that may be preferred, such asr tomato sauce, sauce piquante, sauce Robert, or pickled gherkins.