Scalds and Burns. 1597 Shell Fish.—Treatment.—Give an emetic, then a purgative, afterwards twenty or thirty drops of spirit of sulphuric ether on a lump of sugar. Sulphuric Acid or Oil of Vitriol.—Treatment.—Give bicarbonate or carbonate of soda or potash. If these are not at hand, chalk or magnesia will do instead. Olive or almond oil may also be given. 3587. Scalds and Burns.—Treatment.—When a part has been scalded, immerse it in cold water or pour cold water over it, or dust bicarbonate of soda over it and apply a wet cloth above this. When blisters have formed, prick them with a needle or pair of scissors and press the cuticle carefully down, after which apply the bicarbonate of soda as before, or chlorate of potassium ointment (5 grains to the ounce of lard) or carron oil: thymol or carbolic oil (1 part to 100 of olive oil) answers well. 3588. Sprains.—Treatment.—Foment the part well with warm water, then brush tincture of arnica over it several times a day. When the more acute symptoms have passed, wrap the part in cotton wool and apply a good firm bandage, india-rubber if it can be had, so as to diminish the swelling and give a feeling of security when the patient comes to move about. Later on, if not quite right, use the cold douche and friction with a rough towel. 3589. Suffocation.—Treatment.—If the person is found hanged he should be at once cut down, and artificial respiration employed. If the suffocation re- sults from articles of food blocking up the throat the treatment recommended in choking must be had recourse to. If the suffocation is the result of breathing coal-gas or sewer-gas, or by being in a room in which charcoal has been burnt, the first thing to do is to get the patient out as speedily as possible. 3590. Sunstroke.—Treatment.—Dash cold water over the face and head ; apply ice or ice cloths or cold water to the head, and give a teaspoonful of spirit of sal volatile in water, Tea or coffee may be given afterwards. 3591. Wounds.—The simplest are those in which the tissues are clean cut through, and where, the edges, when brought together, fit accurately the one to the other. Treatment.—Remove all dust or dirt, and bring the edges carefully together by means of a bandage or strips of plaster. Keep at rest for a few days. Contused or lacerated wounds should be treated by cleansing the parts with sanitas and water, carbolic acid and water (a teaspoonful to eight or ten ounces of water), or Condy’s fluid and water, then place a piece of lint or rag soaked in carbolic oil (one part to twenty of olive oil) or boroglyceride over the wound, and keep the edges as nearly as possible together. Perforating wounds are dangerous because of their depth. Treatment.—Keep the part at rest, and apply ice-bags or cloths soaked in cold water, to which some sanitas or carbolic acid has been added, to the wound. Gun-shot Wounds.—Treatment.—If a stimulant is necessary, give a teaspoonful of spirit of sal-volatile in water. Remove pieces of clothing, wadding, or bits of paper that may be found in the wound, then bathe it with sanitas and water, carbolic acid and water, or Condy’s fluid and water, then soak a piece of lint in carbolic oil or sanitas vaseline, and lay it into the wound. Poisoned wounds may result from a number of causes, such as stings of insects, snake-bites, the bites of rabid animals, &c. Dog-bites.—When anyone is bitten by an animal supposed to be mad, unless the actual fact of the animal’s madness is known, it should be kept and carefully