Roast Fillet of Veal. 441- dredge again with flour, and add | pint of water, pouring it in by degrees ; set it on the fire, and when it boils add the onion and mace, and let it simmer very gently about three-quarters of an hour; flavour the gravy with lemon-juice, peel, wine and ketchup, in the above proportion; give one boil, and serve. Time.—J hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 5d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 983.—SCOTCH COLLOPS, WHITE. (Fv.—Escalopes a I’Ecossaise.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast veal, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pounded mace, cayenne and salt to taste, a little butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 4 pint of water, x teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, £ teaspoonful of lemon-peel, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of sherry. Mode.—Cut the veal into thin slices, about 3 inches in width; hack them with a knife, and grate on them the nutmeg, mace, cayenne, and salt, and fry them in a little butter. Dish them, and make a gravy in the pan by putting in the remaining ingredients. Give one boil, and pour it over the collops ; garnish with lemon and slices of toasted bacon, rolled. Forcemeat balls may be added to this dish. If cream is not at hand, substitute the yolk of an egg beaten up well with a little milk. Time.—About 5 or 7 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, Bd. Seasonable from March to October. 984.—ROAST FILLET OF VEAL. (Fr.—Rouelle de Veau Rotie.) Ingredients.—Veal, forcemeat No. 629, melted butter. Mode.—Have the fillet cut according to the size required; take out the bone, and after raising the skin from the meat, put under the flap a nice forcemeat, made by recipe No. 629. Prepare sufficient of this, as there should be some left to eat cold, and to season and flavour a mince if required. Skewer and bind the veal up in a round form ; dredge well with flour, put it down at some distance from the fire at first, and baste continually. About half an hour before serving, draw it nearer the fire, that it may acquire' FILLET OF VEAL. -