828 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. raisins that have been previously stoned ; then nearly fill the basin with slices of bread and butter with the crust cut off, and, in another basin, beat the eggs; add to them the milk, sugar and grated nutmeg; mix all well together and pour the whole on to the bread and butter; let it stand half an hour, then tie a floured cloth over it; boil for 1 hour and serve with sweet sauce. Care must be taken that the basin is quite full before the cloth is tied over. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, gd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1742.-CANARY PUDDING. Ingredients.—The weight of 3 eggs in sugar and butter, the weight of 2 eggs in flour, the rind of 1 small lemon, 3 eggs. Mode.—Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil; stir to this the sugar and finely-minced lemon peel and gradually dredge in the flour, keeping the mixture well stirred ; whisk the eggs ; add these to the pudding ; beat all the ingredients until thoroughly blended, and put them into a buttered mould or basin; boil for 2 hours and serve with sweet sauce. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, gd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1743.-BAKED OR BOILED CARROT PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of bread-crumbs, 4 oz. of suet, £ lb. of stoned raisins, f lb. of carrot, £ lb. of currants, 3 oz. of sugar, 3 eggs, milk, £ nutmeg. Mode.—Boil the carrots until tender enough to mash to a pulp : add the remaining ingredients and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter. If to be boiled, put the mix- ture into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth and boil for 2^ hours ; if to be baked, put it into a pie-dish and bake for nearly an hour ; turn it out of the dish, strew sifted sugar over it and serve. Time.— 2J hours to boil; 1 hour to bake. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to March. Carrots, says Liebig, contain the same kind of sugar as the juice of the sugar-cane. 1744.—CARAMEL PUDDING. (Fr.—Creme Renversee ) Ingredients.—6 oz. of sugar, 1 gill of water, 1 £ pint of new milk, 6 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, sugar to taste.