168 Recipes for Soups. Mode.- VERMICELLI, Pat the stock, bacon, butter and fowl into the stewpan, and stew for £ of an hour. Take the vermicelli, add it to a little of the stock, and set it on the fire till it is quite tender. When the soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, and put them on a dish. Skim the soup as clean as possible; pour in the vermicelli, and serve with fried or toasted bread, cut in dice. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, exclusive of the fowl and bacon, is. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 4 persons. Vermicelli.—This is a preparation of Italian origin, and is made in the same way as macaroni, only the yolks of eggs, sugar, saffron and cheese are added to the paste. 344—VERMICELLI SOUP. (Fr.-Potage Vermicelle.) (A nothtr Mode.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of clear gravy soup, No. 276, Mode.—Put the vermicelli in the soup boiling ; boil for a quarter to half an hour, and stir frequently. Any clear soup can be used for vermicelli. Time.—Half an hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. 345.—WHITE SOUP. (Fr— Potage lait d’Amandes.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of sweet almonds, \ lb. of cold veal or poultry, a thick slice of stale bread, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 1 blade of mace, pounded ; $ pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 quarts of white stock, No. 275. Mode.—Reduce the almonds in a mortar to a paste, with a spoonful of water, and add to them the meat, which should be previously pounded with the bread. Beat all together, and add the lemon-peel, very finely chopped, and the mace. Pour the boiling stock on the whole, and simmer for an hour. Rub the eggs in the cream, put in the soup, bring it to a boil, and serve immediately. Time.—i£ hour. Average Cost, is. 9d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—A more economical white soup may be made by using common veal stock, and thickening with rice, flour and milk. Vermicelli should be served with it. Average Cost, 5d. per quart.