Preface to New Edition. vii Space does not permit of our saying much about the Menus that form a very important section of the book. It will be seen that those for dinners are in every case written in boch French and English, that they are varied in character, and that the average cost is in every case reckoned, so that they are a real and valuable help to dinner givers ; while for those who prefer the old-fashioned plan of having!all the dishes placed upon the table, one dinner is set out in courses for each month in the year, showing how the dishes can best be arranged to leave room for table decorations. The important subject of table decorations is treated of in a chapter, giving the newest and prettiest plans for different seasons, and where some of the vases and flower-stands now used are illustrated. The many fresh illustrations and new coloured plates will, it is hoped, speak for themselves ; no expense or trouble having been spared in getting them as perfect as possible—making them accurate representations of the original objects—so that they may serve as useful guides as well as embellish the book. “The Doctor” has been entirely re-written by an eminent medical authority; the Diseases of Infancy and Childhood are specially treated of. The chapter on “Legal Memoranda” has been revised to the latest date. The following short summary of revisions and additions will give a slight idea of the magnitude of the work that has been done :— The Housekeeper’s Guide, for Choos'ing and Buying all Household Requisites, and showing the proper Seasons of the various Fresh Provisions. New Modes of Cooking, New Ranges, New Gas Stoves and other Cookery Appliances. New Tables giving the Relative Value of Fish, Meat, Poultry, and Game, showing Waste in Cooking and Loss in Bone and Skin* Tinned Meats : How Best to Prepare Them. Cookery as a Science and Fine Art; Reasons for Cooking ; Diet, and Economy of Food. Trussing, Illustrated by Sketches from Nature, showing each stage of preparation for cooking. Vegetarianism, with Recipes for Vegetable Soups, Savouries and Sweets. Small Savouries, suitable for fashionable Menus. Home-Made Confectionery and Ornamental Pastry New Recipes for Invalid Cookery.