Apples and Rice. QOJ 1'ime.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient tor 1 entremet. Seasonable from July to March. I935--APPLES iN RED JELLY. (Fr.—Gelee aux Pommes.) (A Pretty Supper Dish.) Ingredients.—6 good-sized apples, 12 cloves, pounded sugar, 1 lemon, 2 teacupfuls of water, oz. of Swmborne’s Gelatine, a few drops of prepared cochineal. Mode.—Choose rather large apples ; peel them and take out the cores, either with a scoop or small silver knife, and put into each apple 2 cloves and as much sifted sugar as they will hold. Place them, without touching each other, in a large pie-dish ; add more white sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and 2 teacupfuls of water. Bake in the oven, with a dish over them, until they are done. Look at them frequently, and, as each apple is cooked, place it in a glass dish. They must not be left in the oven after they are done, or they will break, and so would spoil the appearance of the dish. When the apples are neatly arranged in a dish without touch- ing each other, strain the liquor in which they have been stewing into a lined saucepan; add to it the rind of the lemon, and the above amount of gelatine, which has been previously dissolved in cold water, and, if not sweet, a little more sugar, and six cloves. Simmer until clear; colour with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and strain the jelly through a double muslin into a jug ; let it cool a little; then pour it into the dish round the apples. When quite cold, garnish the tops of the apples with a bright- coloured marmalade, jelly, or the white of an egg, beaten to a strong froth, with a little sifted sugar. Time.—From 30 to 50 minutes to bake the apples. Average Cost, is., with the garnishing. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to March. 1936.—APPLES AND RICE. (Fr,—Pommes au Ri2.) (A Plain Dish.) Ingredients.—8 good-sized apples, 3 oz. of butter, the rind of £ a lemon minced very fine, 6 oz. of rice, pint of milk, sugar to taste, £ teaspoon- ful of grated nutmeg, 6 tablespoonfuls of apricot jam. Mode.—Peel the apples, halve them and take out the cores; put them. Into a stewpan with the batter, and strew sufficient sifted sugar over to