Toad-in-the-Hole. 419 935 — STEWED BEEF. (Fv.—Culotte de Boeuf a la Polonaise.) (A Polish Dish.) Ingredients.—A thick beef or rump steak of about 2 lbs., 1 onion, some bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Mince the onion fine, mix it with the bread, pepper and salt ; make deep incisions in the beef, but do not cut it through; fill the spaces with the bread, &c. Roll up the steak and put it in a stewpan with the butter; let it stew very gently for more than 2 hours; serve it with its own gravy, thickened with a little flour, and flavoured, as may be required, either with tomato sauce, Harvey sauce, or ketchup. Time.—About two hours, or rather more. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. s Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 936.—STEWED SHIN OF BEEF. (Ft.—darret de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—A shin of beef, 1 head of celery, 1 onion, a faggot of savoury herbs, teaspoonful of allspice, £ teaspoonful of whole black pepper, 4 carrots, 12 button onions, 2 turnips, thickening of butter and flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 tablespoonfuls of port; pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have the bone sawn into 4 or 5 pieces, cover with hot water, bring it to a boil, and remove any scum that may rise to the surface. Put in the celery, onions, herbs, spice and seasoning, and simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Peel the vegetables, cut them into any shape fancy may dictate, and boil them with the onions until tender ; lift out the beef, put it on a dish, which keep hot, and thicken with butter and flour as much of the liquor as will be wanted for gravy ; keep stirring till it boils, then strain and skim. Put the gravy back into the stewpan, add the seasoning, port and ketchup, give one boil, and pour it over the beef garnish with the boiled carrots, turnips and onions. Time.—The meat to be stewed about 4 hours. Average Cost,$d. pet- lb., with bone. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 937 —TOAD IN-THE-HOLE. (A Homely but Savoury dish.) Ingredients:—lb. of rump steak, I sheep’s kidney, pepper and salt to taste. For the batter, 3 eggs, i pint of milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of floury $ saltspoonful of salt, ■ > “i *. T