926 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. I978.—COFFEE ICE CREAM. Ingredients.—i cup of coffee, i of boiling milk, 6 tablespoonfuls of Sifted sugar, yolks of 6 eggs, i pint of cream. Mode.—Prepare as above and stir over the fire till the mixture thickens, then add a pint of thick cream and pour into a mould and freeze. Time.—20 minutes, £ hour to freeze. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1979.—CURRANT FRITTERS. (Ft.—Beignets de Riz.) Ingredients.—£ pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 4 eggs, 3 table- spoonfuls of boiled rice, 3 tablespoonfuls of currants, sugar to taste, a very little grated nutmeg, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Put the milk into a basin with the flour, which should pre- viously be rubbed to a smooth batter with a little cold milk; stir these ingredients together; add the well-whisked eggs, the rice, currants, sugar and nutmeg. Beat the mixture for a few minutes, and, if not sufficiently thick, add a little more boiled rice; drop it, in small quantities, into a pan of hot lard or clarified dripping ; fry the fritters a nice brown, and, when done, drain them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire. Pile them on a white d’oyley, strew over sifted sugar, and serve them very hot. Send a cut lemon to table with them. Time.—From 8 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1980.-C HOCOLATE CREAM. (Fr.—Creme au Chocolat.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of grated chocolate, £ lb. of sugar, i£ pint of cream, 1 oz. of gelatine, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.—Beat the yolks of the eggs well; put them into a basin with the grated chocolate, the sugar, and 1 pint of the cream ; stir these ingredients well together, pour them into a jug, and set this jug in a saucepan of boiling water ; stir it one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Strain the cream through a sieve into a basin, stir in the gelatine and the other half-pint of cream, which should be well whipped; mix all well together, and pour it into a mould which has been previously oiled with the purest salad oil, and, if at hand, set it in ice until wanted for table. CREAM-MOULD.