Almond Flowers. 891 may be preferred, such as diamonds, rings, ovals, &c., and spread the above mixture over the paste. Bake the bouch6es in an oven, not too hot, and serve cold. Time.—£ hour, or rathe, more. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for lb. of puff-paste. Seasonable at any time. 1902.—ALMOND PASTE TARTLETS. (Fr.—Tartelettes d’Amandes.) Ingredients.—Almond paste, No. 1692 ; jam, or sweetmeat. Mode.—Spread your paste on your board, cut it with a cutter to the size of your tartlet tins, which must be well-buttered, put some kind of sweetmeat in the centre and bake iu a moderate oven. 1903.—ALMOND FLOWERS. (Fr.—Biscuit aux Amandes.) Ingredients.—Puff-paste, No. 1674; to every £ lb. of puff-paste allow 3 oz. of almonds, sifted sugar, the white of an egg. Mode.—Roll the paste out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and, with a round fluted cutter, stamp out as many pieces as may be required. Work the paste up again, roll it out and, with a smaller cutter, stamp out some pieces the size of a shilling. Brush the larger pieces over with the white of an egg, and place one of the smaller pieces on each. Blanch and cut the almonds into strips lengthwise ; press them slanting into the paste closely round the rings; and when they are all completed, sift over some pounded sugar, and bake for about a quarter of an hour or 20 min- utes. Garnish between the almonds with strips of apple jelly, and place in the centre of the ring a small quantity of strawberry jam ; pile them high on the dish, and serve. Time.—£ hour or 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. for the above quantity. Sufficient.—18 or 20 for a dish. Seasonable at any time. 1904.—APRICOT BOUCHEES. (Fr.—Bouchees d’Abricots.) Ingredients.—Puff-paste, apricots, loaf sugar, cream. Mode.—Make some puff-paste by recipe No. 1677, or any small pieces left from larger dishes will suffice. Cut it into 2-inch rounds, lay them on a wet baking-sheet, sift over some finely-powdered sugar; make a circular indentation with a smaller cutter, and bake to a light brown colour in a quick oven, and when hot press lightly in the centre of each to make room for the fruit. Cut some ripe apricots in half, take out the stone® and boil for a few minutes in a syrup made from the sugar. When