172 Recipes for Soups. 353— HARE SOUP. (Fr— Potage de Li6vre.) Ingredients.—A hare fresh killed, 1 lb. of lean gravy beef, a slice of ham, 1 carrot, 2 onions, a bunch of savoury herbs, £ oz. of whole black pepper, a little browned flour, 4 pint of port wine, the crumb of two French rolls, salt and cayenne to taste, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Skin and paunch the hare, saving the liver and as much blood as possible. Cut it in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with all the ingre- dients, and simmer gently for 6 hours. This soup should be made the day before it is wanted. Strain through a sieve, put the best parts of the hare in the soup, and serve. Time.—6 hours. Average Cost, is. 9d. per quart. Seasonable from September to February. Sufficient for 10 persons. The Common Hare.—This little animal is found throughout Europe, and, indeed, in most of the Northern parts of the world ; and as it is destitute of natural weapons of defence, Providence has endowed it with an extraordinary amount of the passion of fear. As if to awaken the vigilance of this passion, too, He has furnished it with long and tubular ears, in order that it may catch the remotest sounds; and with full, prominent eyes, which enable it to see, at one and the same time, both before ana behind it. The hare feeds in the evenings, and sleeps during most of the day; and, as it generally lies on the ground, its feet, both below and above, are protected with a thick covering of hair. Its flesh, though esteemed by tne Romans, was forbidden by the Druids and by the earlier Britons. It is now, though very dark and dry, and devoid of fat, much esteemed by Europeans on account of the peculiarity of its flavour. In purchas- ing this animal, it ought to be remembered that both hares and rabbits, when old, have their claws rugged and blunt, their haunches thick, and their ears dry and tough. The ears of a young hare easily tear, and it has a narrow cleft in the lip; whilst its claws are both smooth and sharp. 354- HARE SOUP. (Another Mode.) Proceed as above ; but, instead of putting the joints of the hare in the soup, pick the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar, and add it, with the crumb of two French rolls, to the soup. Rub all through a sieve ; heat slowly, but do not let it boil. Send it to table immediately. Time.—8 hours. Average Cost, is. 9d. per quart. Seasonable from September to February. Sufficient for 10 persons. 355- HARICOT SOUP. Ingredients.—3 lbs. neck of mutton, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 1 onion, £ head of celery, 2 quarts of stock, No. 273, 1 glass of port wine, 1 table- spoonful of flour, butter, dessertspoonful of ketchup. Mode.—Cut the neck into neat cutlets and fry them a nice light brown, then add the stock to them, and stew until tender. In the meantime slice the vegetables and fry them in a little butter. Skim the fat off the