A Simple Method of Making Coffee. 1193 funnel, one, two, or three cups, according to the size of the percolator, in order to make the infusion of uniform strength ; the contents will then be ready for use, and should run from the tap strong, hot and clear. The coffee made in these urns generally turns out very good, and there is but one objection to them—the coffee runs rather slowly from the tap. This is of nc consequence where there is a small party, but tedious where there are many persons to provide for. A remedy for this objection may be suggested; namely, to make the coffee very strong, so that not more than one-third of a cup would be required, as the rest would be filled up with milk. If coffee is properly made, whether in filters or percolators, or even in a jug or saucepan, there is no necessity for using isinglass, white of egg, and various other preparations to clear it. Coffee should always be served very hot, and, if possible, in the same vessel in which it is made, as pouring it from one pot to another cools, and consequently spoils it. Many persons may think that the proportion of water we have given for each ounce of coffee is rather small; it is so; and the coffee produced from it will be very strong; one-third of a cup will be found quite sufficient, which should be filled up with nice hot mi'k, or milk and cream mixed. This is the cafe au lait for which our neighbours over the Channel are so justly celebrated. Should the ordinary method of making coffee be pre- ferred, use double the quantity of water, and, in pouring it into the cups, put in more coffee and less milk. Sufficient.—For very good coffee, allow £ oz., or 1 tablespoonful, to each person. 2666.-TO MAKE COFFEE iN A SAUCEPAN. Have an earthenware or fire-proof china pan, put in freshly but not too finely-ground coffee wdth water, a dessertspoonful to every half pint. Set it over the fire till it is just about to boil. Take it off, stir it well, put it on again and again, let it nearly boil. Repeat this twice, when a thick scum will have risen. Set it by the side of the fire covered to settle, and serve with boiling milk. 2067.-A VERY SIMPLE METHOD OF MAKING COFFEE. Ingredients.—Allow ^ oz., or 1 tablespoonful, of coffee to each person ; to every oz. allow ^ pint of water. Mode.—Have a small iron ring made to fit the top of the coffee-pot inside, and to this ring sew a small muslin bag (the muslin for the purpose must not be too thin). Fit the bag into the pot, pour some boiling water