Rules for Boiling. 109 it is so hot, and down in a mine it must be hotter. Salt-ahd-water bbils at a slightly higher temperature. For the boiling of water also depends not on the amount of heat absorbed, but also on the pressure of the atmosphere on the surface of the liquid. Moreover, many things are better boiled at a heat much less than that of boiling water. The difference between fast boiling and simmer- ing water in cookery depends on the rate of evaporation, and on the mechanical action of violently bubbling water, which may sometimes be of service, though it is more often objectionable. Count Rumford wrote nearly a century ago what cooks have not even yet learned : “ Causing anything to boil violently in any culinary process is very ill-judged ; for not only does it not expedite in the smallest degree the process of cooking, but it occasions a most enormous waste of fuel, and by driving away with the steam many of the more volatile and more savoury particles of the ingredients renders the victuals less good and less palatable. Five times as much heat is re- quired to send off in steam any given quantity of water already boiling hot as would be necessary to heat the same quantity of the cold water to the boiling point.” In order to find out the right heat, we must first know what substance we have to deal with, and how each one of them is acted upon by heat. The simplest thing to boil is an egg. The white is little more than albumen and water; the yolk contains albumen and water with some oil and some sulphur, and the albumen is rather of a different character. We have seen that albumen begins to coagulate at 1450, sets into a jelly at 1600, and at boiling water point becomes tough and hard. We do not want our egg tough and hard, but we do want the white set. Therefore the best way is to keep it always below boiling point. Some people recommend the plan of putting the egg into a saucepan of boiling water, taking the pan off the fire and letting it cook so. Others prefer to put the egg in cold water and to take it off directly it boils. Even with a hard-boiled egg it is a mistake to boil it one instant longer than is enough to set the yolk and white. In boiling lean meat we must deal with albumen again. Just as the white of an egg hardens by boiling, so does the albumen in a leg of mutton. Plunge it into boiling water, and on the surface an impervious crust is formed that prevents the juices of the meat from escaping. Once that is done, the boiling should cease, for the toughening of the albumen through the joint is as undesirable as the escape of the juices. Boiled meat intended for table should never be put into cold water, because the albumen is dissolved, and afterwards when the water boils hardens and rises as scum, also because the salts and extrac- tives are dissolved, leaving the meat dry and flavourless. Cold water first and fast boiling afterwards (the common way of cooking) is the worst possible way, for the meat is not only dry, but hard. If the meat is to be boiled for soup the object is to extract all the juice, the soluble albumen, and as much gelatine as may be, so that it should be cut up to multiply surfaces, put into cold water, and heated slowly to boiling point. To attain contrary ends, contrary means must be used. The exceptions to this rule if any, for boiling meat are in the case of sinewy and tendonous meat where gelatine is abundant To make it soft and eatable long continued boiling is necessary. Calf’s head and feet, veal tendons, cow heel, tripe are often put into cold water. 224. Flour foods, such as maccaroni, rice, sago, cornflour, and flour puddings should be kept ail the time in boiling water, in order to burst the starch granules. The mechanical action of fast bubbling water is often useful, partly in preventing grains of rice, &c., from settling to the bottom of the saucepan. Boiled fish —The bubbling is worse than useless in the case of fish, when it