1580 The Doctor. In addition to these there are poultices more strictly medicated, such as those made of foxglove or hemlock. As these may prove dangerous if carelessly employed, they ought only to be made use of when ordered by the medical attendant. Mustard Poultice.—This is ordinarily made by sprinkling the surface of a linseed meal poultice with mustard and covering it with muslin to retain the mustard in its place. 3546. Anaemia.—This is a condition in which tnere is an impoverished state of the blood ; the red cells being deficient in quantity and the blood becoming more watery than in health. It arises under conditions in which the individual is deprived of the materials necessary for the making of good blood, as for example, when the food supplied is insufficient in amount or kind, or the greater part of the day is spent in close badly-ventilated workshops. It also arises in the course of exhausting diseases. Symptoms.—There is, in those who suffer from this affection, a pale, pasty appearance of the skin; the lips and gums have lost the rosy look of health, and become of a delicate pink colour. Exertion is difficult, and going up stairs or climbing a height out of doors gives rise to breathlessness. Palpitation of the heart, headache, pain in the back and in the left side are frequently complained of. In women, menstruation often ceases. Treatment. — Have the patient removed, if possible, from all influences that tend to injure the health. Well-ventilated rooms and workshops with plenty of light are desirable. A moderate amount of exercise in the open air is helpful in giving tone to the system. Change of air'from the town to the country, or more particularly, to the sea-side is often beneficial, and cold sponging, especially with salt water, is also helpful. The diet should be plain and nourishing, and a moderate amount of animal food should form a part. Under ordinary circumstances there is no necessity for stimulants. In regard to medicines, the one thing needful is iron. This may be given in the form of steel drops or Bland’s pills ; ten to twenty drops of the former, and one or two of the latter three times a day. 3547. Asthma, from a word signifying to gasp for breath, is a nervous disease, dependirg upon contraction of the circular muscular fibres surrounding the bronchial tubes. Occasionally it is connected with, and dependent upon, original malformation of the heart, or an unnatural conformation of the chest, in which case, it usually makes its first appearance in childhood ; otherwise it is most frequently met with about the middle period of life. Symptoms. — Asthma, whether connected with malformation or not, is a hurried, oppressed and noisy state of the breathing, coming on in paroxysms, and leaving the patient comparatively well in the intervals; although in some there may be observed wheezing and a more confined dilitation of the chest than is natural in inspiration. In a typical asthmatic attack, the patient wakes up in the small hours of the morning with a sensation of suffocation ; the difficulty of breathing continues, and a terrible struggle begins. He sits up in bed, or gets up and goes to the window, where he stands struggling for breath. The wheezing is attended with successional coughing, and at length the expectoration of some viscid phlegm gives him great relief; he breathes tolerably easily for a while, and after a little more coughing and expectoration the paroxysm ends. 1 peculiar state of the atmosphere is an exciting cause; damp, foggy weather, will induce it in some, a north-east wind in others ; some asthmatics are liable to attacks while spending a single night in a large town; others enjoy freedom from attacks while similarly circumstanced. A single indigestible meal, particularly a hearty supper is another frequent cause.