Preserved Pears. ion Place them in a clean baking-jar, with a closely-fitting lid ; add to them the lemon-rind cut in strips, the juice of half a lemon, the cloves, pounded allspice, and sufficient water just to cover the whole, with sugar in the above proportion. Cover the jar down closely, put it intoja very cool oven, and bake the pears from 5 to 6 hours, but be very careful that the oven is not too hot. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added ; but this will not be found necessary if the pears are very gently baked. Time.—Large pears, 5 to 6 hours, in a very’ slow oven. Average Cost, id. to 2d. each. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to January. Pear.—The pear, like the apple, is indigenous in this country; but the wild pear is A Very unsatisfactory fruit. The best varieties were brought from the East by the Romans, who cultivated them with care, and probably introduced some of their best sorts into this island, to which others were added by the inhabitants of the monasteries. The Dutch and Flemings, as well as the French, have excelled in the cultivation of the pear, and most of the large varieties Introduced are from France and Flanders. The pear is a hardy tree, and a longer liver than the apple; it has been known to exist for centuries. There are now about 150 varieties of this fruit. Though perfectly wholesome when ripe, the pear is not so when green ; but in this state it is fit for stewing. An agreeable beverage, called perry, is made from pears, and the varieties which are least fit for eating make the best perry. 2188.—PRESERVED PEARS. Ingredients.—Jargonelle pears ; to every lb. of sugar allow ^ pint of Water. Mode.—Procure some Jargonelle pears, not too ripe ; put them into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer them till rather tender, but do not allow them to break ; then put them into cold water. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes, skim well, put in the pears, and simmer them gently for 5 minutes. Repeat the simmering for 3 successive days, taking care not to let the fruit break. The last time of boiling, the syrup should be made rather richer, and the fruit boiled for 10 minutes. When the pears are done, drain them from the syrup, and dry them in the sun, or in a cool oven ; or they may be kept in the syrup, and dried as they are wanted. Time.—i hour to simmer the pears in water, 20 minutes in the syrup. Average Cost, id. to 2d. each. Seasonable.—Most plentiful in September and October. 2189.—STEWED PEARS. Ingredients.—8 large pears, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 6 cloves, 6 whole allspice, £ pint of water, \ pint of port, a few drops of prepared cochi- neal. Mode.—Pare the pears, halve them, remove the cores, and leave the