614 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 1301.—FOWL A LA MARENGO. (Fr.—Poulet a la Marengo.) Ingredients.—I large fowl, 4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 1 tablespoon- ful of flour; 1 pint of stock, No. 274, or water, about 20 inushroom-bul tons, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a very small piece of garlic. Mode.—Cut the fowl into 8 or 10 pieces ; put them with the oil into the stewpan, and brown them over a moderate fire; dredge in the above proportion of flour; when that is browned, pour in the stock or water; let it simmer very slowly for rather more than half an hour, and skim off the fat as it rises to the top ; add the mushrooms ; season with salt, pepper, garlic and sugar ; take out the fowl, which arrange pyramidically on the dish, with the inferior joints at the bottom. Reduce the sauce by boiling it quickly over the fire, keeping it stirred until sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of a spoon ; pour over the fowl, and serve. Time.—Altogether, 50 minutes. Average Cost, 3s. 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. A Fowl II la Marengo.—The following is the origin of the well-known dish—Poulet a la Ma- rengo:—On the evening of the battle the First Consul was very hungry after the agitation of the day, and a fowl was ordered with all expedition. The fowl was procured, but there was no but- ter at hand, and unluckily none could be found in the neighbourhood. There was oil in abund- ance, however; and the cook having poured a certain quantity into his skillet, put in the fowl, wiih a clove of garlic and other seasoning, with a little white wine, the best the country afforded; he then garnished it with mushrooms, and served it up hot. The dish proved the second conquest of the day, as the Frst Consul found it most agreeable to his palate and expressed his satisfaction. Ever since, a fowl a la Marengo is a favourite dish with all lovers of good cheer. 1302.—FRIED FOWLS. (Fr.—Fritot de Poulet.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, vinegar, salt and cay- enne to taste, 3 or 4 minced shalots. For the batter—£ lb. of flour, £ pint of hot water, 2 oz. of butter, the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Cut the fowl into nice joints ; steep them for an hour in a little vinegar, with salt, cayenne, and minced shalots. Make the batter by mixing the flour and water smoothly together ; melt in it the butter, and add the whites of egg beaten to a froth ; take out the pieces of fowl, dip them in the batter, and fry, in boiling lard, a nice brown. Pile them high in the dish, and garnish with fried parsley or rolled bacon. When approved, a sauce or gravy may be served with them. Time.—10 minutes to fry the fowl. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, 8d. Seasonable at any time. Chanticleer and his Companions.—On bringing the male and female birds together for the first time, it will be necessary to watch the former closely, as it is a very common occurrence with him to conceive a sudden and violent dislike for one or more of his wives, and not allow the