ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LOAVES. CHAPTER XXXIX. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 2377. Cereals.—Among the numerous vegetable products yielding articles of food for man, the Cereals hold the first place. They are so called from Ceres, the goddess of agriculture. The best known are Wheat and its varieties, Rye, Barley, Oats, Rice, Maize. Everybody knows that wheat flour yields the best bread. Rye-bread is viscous, hard, less easily soluble by the gastric juice and not so rich in nutritive power. Flour produced from barley, maize, or rice, is not so readily made into bread; and the article, when made, is heavy and indigestible, so that, in countries where these corns form the staple food, porridges or mash are more common than bread. On examining a grain of corn from any of the numerous cereals used in the preparation of flour, such as wheat, maize, rye, barley, &c., it will be found to consist of the husk, or exterior covering, which is generally of a dark colour, and the inner part, which is more or less white. That is what is seen on a super- ficial examination, but looked at through a microscope there is a centre part white, consisting almost entirely of starch cells, and five or six layers of different shaped cells surrounding the starch, each less starchy and less white than the centre, each containing more phosphates and getting browner as it is nearer to the outer covering of all, the bran. The most gluten or flesh-forming material is in a row of brick-shaped cells near the starch. In grinding, these two portions are separated, and, the husk being blown away in the process of winnowing, the flour remains in the form of a light brown powder. In order to separate the brown from the white, it undergoes a process called “ bolting.” It is passed through a series of fine sieves, which separate the coarser parts, leaving behind fine white flour—the " fine firsts” of the corn-dealer. The finest white flour comes from the centre of the grain, and is very starchy. Household is less white, because it