i9i Fish Soups. FISH SOUPS. 391.—BOUILLABAISSE. Ingredients.—12 oz. of onions, 2 cloves stuck in the onions, 1 02. paisley, 2 laurel leaves, 1 spray of thyme, 2 outer skins of a clove ol garlic, 1 oz. of shalots, 2 oz. of carrots, 6 lbs. of any kinds of fish, such as soles, whiting, barbel, plaice, &c., 4 oz. of oil, f oz. of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, $ oz. of allspice, 3^ pints of water, 1 teaspoonful of powdered saffron. Mode.—Cut the fish into long pieces, or fillets, and place all the in- gredients, except the saffron, in the saucepan in order as arranged above; cover the pan closely, and boil for 25 minutes. If whiting are cooked, they must be added after the other ingredients have boiled 15 minutes. Then remove the fish; drain carefully, and take off any particles that may adhere to them from the soup. Dress them high on a dish covered with a napkin. Strain the soup, add the saffron, pour into the tureen. Serve the fish at the same time as the soup, and serve fried bread, a third of an inch thick, separately. Time.—I hour. Average Cost, including dish of fish, 2s. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 persons. Note.—Bouillabaisse can be made of fresh-water fish, but is not so delicious as when made with sea-fish. It is of southern origin, and ought to be a highly- seasoned dish. This soup is vrell-known to all readers of Thackeray, by reason of his ballad wherein, visiting Paris when an old fogey, he recalls his remem- brances of younger and more jovial days. “This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is, A sort of soup, a broth, or brew, A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes, That Greenwich never could outdo. Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, safifern, Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace; All these you eat at Terre's tavern, In that one dish of Bouillabaisse.” Thackeray's Ballad of Bouillabaisse. 392.—CRAYFISH SOUP. (Fr.—Potage d’Ecrevisses.) Ingredients.—12 crayfish, £ bottle of sherry, 3 pints of stock, No. 272, 3 slices of bread, 2 onions, 1 leek, 1 carrot, £ head of celery, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, 2 oz. butter, 2 cloves, 1 bay leaf, x gill of cream, 3 yolks of eggs. Mode.—Wash the crayfish, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of stock and sherry, boil about 10 minutes. Put the slices of bread into the oven to dry and brown. Melt the butter, fry the vegetables in it for 10 minutes, add a quart of stock and simmer f of an hour. Take up the crayfish, drain them on a sieve ; preserve the stock they were cooked in.