2^6 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 545. —POTTED PRAWNS OR SHRIMPS. (Fr.—Terrine de Crevettes.) Ingredients.—1 quart of fresh prawns or shrimps, J lb. of fresh butter, cayenne, pounded inace or nutmeg, a little salt. Mode.—The fish should be perfectly fresh and as large as possible. Boil them, then shell, divide them slightly and pound to a paste in a mortar with the butter and seasoning. Put up in small pots, cover thickly with butter and tie down closely. Time.—8 minutes to boil the prawns. Average Cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable at any time. 546. —POTTED SHRIMPS. (Fr.—Terrine de Crevettes.) Ingredients.—I pint of shelled shrimps, £ lb. of fresh butter, 1 blade of pounded mace, cayenne to taste, when liked a little nutmeg. Mode.—Have ready a pint of picked shrimps, and put them, with the other ingredients, into a stewpan ; let them heat gradually in the butter, but do not let it bod. Pour into small pots, and when cold, cover with melted butter, and carefully exclude the air. Time. — 4 hour to soak in the butter. Average Cost, for this quantity, is. 3d. 547.— BOILED SKATE. (Fr.—Raie Bouillie.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse and skin the skate, lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it simmer very gently till done then dish it on a hot napkin, and serve with shrimp, iobster or caper sauce. Time.—According to size, ^ to 1 hour. Average Cost, 4d. to is. per lb. Seasonable all the year round. Best from September to April. 548.—CRIMPED SKATE. (Fr.-Raie Taillactee.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Clean, skin and cut the fish into slices, which roll and tie round with string. Have ready some water highly salted, put in the fish and boil till it is done. Drain well, remove the string, dish on a hot napkin, and serve with the same sauces as above. Skate should never be eaten out of season, as it is liable to produce diarrhoea and other diseases. It may be dished without a napkin, and the saucq poured over. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, from Ad. to 6d. per lb. Seasonable all the year round. Best from September to April.