1038 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. 2249.-SAUCE A LA MILITAIRE. (Good with all kinds of Meat, Game, Fish.) Ingredients.—6 shalots, 1 clove of garlic, a handful each of thyme, basil, tarragon leaves, | oz. of bruised mustard seed, 2 laurel leaves, \ oz. of mace, ditto of cloves, £ oz. of long pepper, 2 oz. of salt, 6 dessertspoon- fuls of very strong vinegar, juice of 1 lemon, 1 teaspoonful of grated Seville orange peel, \ pint of white wine. Mode.—Shred the shalots and split the garlic, then put all the ingredi- ents into an earthen jar, cover very closely and put into an oven or on a hot hearth to infuse. Allow it to settle, then strain till quite clear, then bottle and cork closely. A small quantity only is required with the viands. Time.—2 to 3 hours. Average Cost, 8d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 2250.-LEAMINGTON SAUCE. (An excellent Sauce for flavouring Gravies, Hashes, Soups, &c. Author's Recipe.) Ingredients.—Walnuts. To each quart of walnut-juice allow 3 quarts of vinegar, x pint of Indian soy, 1 oz. of cayenne, 2 oz. of shalots, \ oz. of garlic, 4 pint of port. Mode.—Be very particular in choosing the walnuts as soon as they appear in the market; for they are more easily bruised before they become hard and shelled. Pound them in a mortar to a pulp, strew some salt over them and let them remain thus for two or three days, occasionally stirring and moving them about. Press out the juice, and to each quart of walnut-liquor allow the above proportion of vinegar, soy, cayenne, shalots, garlic, and port. Pound each ingredient separately in a mortar, then mix them well together, and store away for use in small bottles. The corks should be well sealed. Seasonable.—This sauce should be made as soon as walnuts are ob- tainable, from the beginning to the middle of July. 2251.-FRENCH MUSTARD. (To keep.) Ingredients. — Mustard, whole mixed spice, 3 lumps of “ugar, vinegar. Mode.—Boil the spices and sugar in some of the vinegar. Take some good mustard and mix it into a stiff paste with cold vinegar. With a red- hot iron heater, or other suitable piece of iron, stir quickly while you mix