1492 Women Servants' Duties. mornings by five o'clock. The operation occupies from twenty minutes to half an hour in summer, and considerably longer in winter. A steady, uniform motion is necessary to produce sweet butter; neither too quick nor too slow Rapid motion causes the cream to heave and swell, from too much air being forced into it; the result is a tedious churning, and soft, bad-coloured butter. 3303. Colouring.—In spring and summer, when the cow has her natural food, no artificial colour is required ; but in winter, under stall-feeding, the colour is white and tallowy, and some persons prefer a high colour. This is communi- cated by mixing a little finely-powdered arnatto with the cream before putting it into the churn ; a still more natural and delicate colour is communicated by scraping a red carrot into a clean piece of linen cloth, dipping it into water, and squeezing it into the cream. 3304. 'Washing the Slitter.—As soon as the butter comes, the milk is poured off, and the butter put into a shallow wooden tub or bowl, full of pure spring water, in which it is washed and kneaded, pouring off the water, and re- newing it until it comes away perfectly free from milk. Imperfect washing is the frequent cause of bad butter, and in nothing is the skill of the dairy-maid tested more than in this process ; moreover, it is one in which cleanliness of habits and person are most necessary. In this operation we want the aid of Phyllis's neat, soft, and perfectly clean hand ; but with the new Atmospheric Churn, this operation presents no difficulty. 3305. Sutter Milk.—The operations of churning and butter-making over, the butter-milk is disposed of: usually, in England, it goes to the pigs; but it is a very wholesome beverage when fresh, and some persons like it; the dis- posal, therefore, will rest with the mistress: the dairy-maid’s duty is to get rid of it. She must then scald with boiling water and scrub out every utensil she has used ; brush out the churn, clean out the cream jars, which will probably require the use of a little common soda to purify ; wipe all dry, and place them in a position where the sun can reach them for a short time, to sweeten them. 3306. Devonshire Cream.—In Devonshire, celebrated for its dairy system, the milk is always scalded. The milk-pans, which are of tin, and contain from 10 to 12 quarts, after standing 10 or 12 hours, are placed on a hot plate of iron, over a stove, until the cream has formed on the surface, which is indicated by the air- bubbles rising through the milk, and producing blisters on the surface-coating of cream. This indicates its approach to the boiling- point ; and the vessel is now removed to cool. When sufficiently, that is, quite cool, the cream is skimmed off with the slice : it is now the clouted cream for which Devonshire is so famous. It is now placed in the churn, and churned until the butter comes, which it generally does in a much shorter time than by the other process. The butter so made contains more caseins than butter made in the usual way, but does not keep so loDg. 3307. Cost of Dairy.—It is a question frequently discussed, how far it is economical for families to keep cows and make their own butter. It is calculated