Empress Pudding. 837 Seasonable at any time. 1764.—DAMSON PUDDING. Ingredients.—pint of damsons, £ lb. of moist sugar, | lb. of suet or butter crust. Mode.—Make a suet crust with three-quarters of a, pound of flour by recipe No. 1684, line a buttered pudding-basin with a portion of it; fill tbe basin with the damsons, sweeten them, and put on the lid ; pinch the edges of the crust together, that the juice does not escape; tie over a floured cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil from 2^ to 3 hours. Time.—to 3 hours. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in September and October. 1765.—DELHI PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 large apples, a little grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 2 large tablespoonfuls of sugar, 6 oz. of currants, | lb. of suet-crust, No. 1684. Mode.—Pare, core and cut the apples into slices; put them into a saucepan, with the nutmeg, lemon-peel and sugar; stir them over the fire until soft; then have ready the above proportion of crust, roll it out thin, spread the apples over the paste, sprinkle over the currants, roll the pudding up, closing the ends properly, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, ioff. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. 1766.—EMPRESS PUDDING. Ingredients.—I lb. of rice, 2 oz. of butter, 3 eggs, jam, sufficient milk to soften the rice. Mode.—Boil the rice in the milk until very soft; then add the butter, boil it for a few minutes after the latter ingredient is put in, and set it by to cool. Well beat the eggs, stir these in, and line a dish with puff-paste ; put over this a layer of rice, then a thin layer of any kind of jam, then another layer of rice, and proceed in this manner until the dish is full, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quartere of an hour. This pudding may be eaten hot or cold : if tfre latter, it will be much improved by having a boiled custard poured over it. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons.