Recipes for Puddings and Pastry, 838 1767.-EXETER PUDDING. (Very Rich.) Ingredients.—10 oz. of bread-crumbs, 4 oz. of sago, 7 oz. of finely* chopped suet, 6 oz..of moist sugar, the rind of £ a lemon, \ pint of rum, 7 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 4 small sponge-cakes, 2 oz. of ratafias, j lb. of jam. Mode.—Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the sago, suet, sugar, minced lemon-peel, rum and 4 eggs ; stir these ingredients well together, then add three more eggs and the cream, and let the mixture be well beaten. Then butter a mould, strew in a few bread-crumbs, and cover the bottom with a layer of ratafias ; then put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of sliced sponge-cake spread thickly with any kind of jam ; then add some ratafias, then some of the mixture and sponge-cake, and so on until the mould is full, taking care that a layer of the mixture is on the top of the pudding. Bake in a good oven from three-quarters to one hour, and serve with the following sauce :—Put 3 tablespoonfuls of black- currant jelly into a stewpan, add 2 glasses of sherry, and, when warm, turn the pudding out of the mould, pour the sauce over it, and serve hot. Time.—From 1 to ij hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 176S.-FIG PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of figs, 1 lb. of suet \ lb. of flour, £ lb. of bread- crumbs, 2 eggs, milk. Mode.—Cut the figs into small pieces, grate the bread finely, and chop the suet very small; mix these well together, add the flour, the eggs, which should be well beaten, and sufficient milk to form the whole into a stiff paste ; butter a mould or basin, press the pudding into it very closely, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for three hours, or rather longer, turn it out of the mould, and serve with melted butter, wine-sauce, or cream. Time.—3 hours, or longer. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter pudding. 1769—FIG PUDDING. (Staffordshire Recipe.) Ingl edients.—1 lb. of figs, 6 oz. of suet, f lb. of flour, milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix with it the flour, and make these into a smooth paste with milk; roll it out to the thickness of about half an inch, cut the figs in small pieces, and strew them over the paste; roll it up,