The Furniture—The Kitchen Table. 39 over with a damp cloth, render it cheaper in the long run. Cleanliness is a sine qud non in the kitchen, and by this means cleanliness can be always insured. Paint, it may be added, can be varnished, and looks well when finished in this manner, but it is not usual to varnish paint, and a painter would not do it unless special injunctions were given to him on this point. (4.) The Floor.—Here varnish should again be resorted to as the finishing coat. Apply staining of any depth that may be liked to the flooring from the skirting boards to a distance of from two to three feet from them, finishing the staining in straight lines parallel to them ; and over the central space left un- stained, lay down oil-clo'h or linoleum—preferably the latter—over lapping the staining to the extent of two or three inches. By this means the time arid labour involved in scrubbing the floor of a kitchen that is left uncovered and unstained, as it comes from the builder’s hands, will be considerably abridged, if not saved altogether, for all that is necessary to keep the linoleum and stained boards clear, is to wipe them over with a damp cloth, and then oil or otherwise polish them. For this puroose petroleum will be found useful. It is unnecessary, and, indeed, impossible here to go into details with regard to the mode of applying the stain, coating it with size, and then giving a finish and a hard glossy surface to the work with varnish. It will be sufficient to say that stains for wood of the first quality, ranging in tint from light oak to ebony, with size and varnish, and all the appli- ances necessary for carrying out the work, with specimens and detailed instruc- tions, may be obtained from Mr. H. C. Stephens, 191, Aldengate Street, London, E.C.' 67. The Furniture—the Kitchen Table.—The size and quantity of this must depend entirely on the size of the kitchen in the first place, and, in the second, on the requirements of the occupants of the house of which the kitchen forms a part. The only article that requires special mention is the kitchen table, which should be massive, firm and strongly made. It may be furnished with drawers or not, according to inclination, perhaps it will be better without them, for kitchen table drawers but too often become receptacles and lurking places of a heterogeneous mass of rubbish and odds and ends, most of which would find a fitter resting-place in the dust-bin or ash-pit, and the rest in other places better adapted for their stowage. But however this may be, the table-board should be substantial not less than an inch and a quarter thick, supported on a frame and legs carefully put together, to insure the necessary stability. The upper surface of the table-board should show the natural wood, and, if made of deal, should be kept well scrubbed; the edge of the table-board, the frame, and the legs should be stained and varnished. Tables with laps and leaves, supported by legs, hinged to a centre frame, should never be used as kitchen tables, for in nine cases out of ten, they are rickety and by no means safe and stable, like the old fashioned kitchen table—as described above—and a very little want of care in using them may end in wholesale destruction of glass and earthenware, and cause a temporary interruption of peaceful relations throughout the household. Good kitchen tables, chairs, &c., and, indeed, every description of furniture necessary for the equip- ment of any and every part of the house and home may be obtained from Messrs. Story Brothers and Triggs, General House Furnishers, 152, 154, 156, Queen Victoria Street, London, E.C. 68. The Linen Press.—There is no occasion to touch on furniture supple- mentary to the kitchen table, for this, as it has been said, must be governed by circumstances, and depend upon the size of the kitchen. It will be found useful, however, to have a small movable table, which, unlike the kitchen table, may be furnished with laps, supported on brackets that may be pulled out or pushed