I332 General Observations on Dinners and Dining. duced by human cleverness and application catering for the modifications which occur in civilised life, one of the simplest of the primal instincts :— “ The inind is lost in mighty contemplation Of intellect expended on two courses; And indigestion's grand multiplication Requires arithmetic beyond my forces. Who would suppose, from Adam’s simple ration, That cookery would have call'd forth such resources, As form a science and a nomenclature From out the commonest demands of nature? ” And we may well say, Who, indeed, would suppose it! The gulf between the Groat, with a steak under his saddle, and Alexis Soyer getting up a great dinner at the Reform Club, or even Thackeray's Mrs. Raymond Gray giving “a little dinner” to Mr. Snob (with one of those famous “ roly-poly puddings ” of hers)— what a gulf it is ! 3033. That Adam’s “ ration,” however was “ simple,” is a matter on which we have contrary judgments given by the poets. When the angel Raphael paid that memorable visit to Paradise—which we are expressly told by Milton he did exactly at dinner-time—Eve seems to have prepared “ a little dinner” wholly destitute of complexity, and to have added ice-creams and perfumes. Nothing can be clearer than the testimony of the poets on these points:— “And Eve within, due at her home prepared For dinner savoury fruits, of taste to please True appetite, and not disrelish thirst Of nectarous draughts between . . . With dispatchful looks in haste She turns, on hospitable thoughts intent. What choice to choose for delicacy best, What order so contrived a^not to mix Tastes not well join’d, inelegant, but bring Taste after taste, upheld with kindliest change— ***** She tempers dulcet creams then strews the ground • With rose and odours." It may be observed, in passing, that the poets, though they have more to say about wine than solid food, because the former more directly stimulates the intel- lect and the feelings, do not flinch from the subject of eating and drinking. There is infinite zest in the above passage from Milton, and even more in the famous description of a dainty supper, given by Keats in his “Eve of Saint Agnes.” Could Queen Mab herself desire to sit down to anything nicer, both as to its appointment and serving, and as to its quality, than the collation served by Porphyro in the lady’s bedroom while she slept ?— “There by the bedside, where the faded moon Made a dim silver twilight, soft he set A table, and, half anguish’d, threw thereon A cloth of woven crimson, gold and jet. * * * * * While he from forth the closet, brought a heap Of candied apple, quince, and plum, and gourd ; With jellies smoother than the creamy curd, And lucent syrups tinct with cinnamon ; Manna and dates, in argosy transferr’d From Fez; and spiced dainties, every one, From silken Samarcand to cedar’d Lebanon." But Tennyson has ventured beyond dates, and quinces, and syrups, which may