1528 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. 3416.—TO CLEAN PAINT. Dirty paint should never be wiped with a cloth, but the dust should be loosened with a pair of bellows, and then removed with a dusting-brush. If very dirty, wash the paint lightly with a sponge or soft flaunel dipped in weak soda-and-water, or in pearlash-and-water. The sponge or flannel, must be used nearly dry, and the portion of paint gone over must immedi- ately be rinsed with a flannel and clean water : both soda and pearlash, if suffered to remain on, will injure the paint. The operation of washing should therefore be done as quickly as possible, and two persons should be employed : one to follow and dry the paint with soft rags, as soon as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed away the soda. No scrubbing-brush should ever be used on paint. 3417— FURNITURE POLISH. Ingredients.—Equal proportions of linseed-oil, turpentine, vinegar and spirits of wine. Mode.—When used, shake the mixture well, and rub on the furniture with a piece of linen rag, and polish with a clean duster. Vinegar and oil. rubbed in with flannel, and the furniture rubbed with a clean duster, produce a very good polish. 3418. —FURNITURE POLISH. [Another Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 oz. of white wax, 1 oz. of Naples soap, 1 pint oi turpentine, 1 pint of soft boiled water. Mode.—Boil the water, let it get cold, shred the wax and soap into it, stand it in the oven until all is melted; add the turpentine slowly, stirring as it is dropped in , stir it until cold ; bottle and cork it closely ; it is fit to use the next day. 3419. —FURNITURE PASTE. Ingredients.—3 oz. of common beeswax, 1 oz. of white wax, 1 oz. of curd soap, 1 pint of turpentine, 1 pint of boiled water. Mode.—Mix the ingredients together, adding the water when cold ; shake the mixture frequently in the bottle, and furniture- do not use it for 48 hours after it is made. It should be applied with a piece of flannel, the furniture polished with a duster, and then with an old silk rubber. 3420.-GERMAN FURNITURE GLOSS. Ingredients.—l lb. of yellow wax, 1 oz. of black rosin, 3 oz. of oil of turpentine. Mode.—Cut the wax into small pieces and melt it in a pipkin, with the