99 7 To Bottle Fresh Fruit. 2153.—TO BOTTLE FRESH FRUIT. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—Any kind of fresh fruit, such as currants, cherries, gooseberries, all kinds of plums, &c.; wide-mouthed glass bottles, new corks to fit them tightly. Mode.—The fruit must be full-grown, not too ripe, and gathered on a fine day. Let it be carefully picked and put into the bottles, which must be clean and perfectly dry. Tie over the tops of the bottles pieces of bladder; stand the bottles in a large pot, copper, or boiler, with cold water to reach to their necks ; kindle a fire under, let the water boil, and as the bladders begin to rise and puff, prick them. As soon as the water boils, extinguish the fire, and let the bottles remain where they are, to become cold. The next day remove the bladders, and strew over the fruit a thick layer of pounded sugar; fit the bottles with corks, and let each cork lie close at hand to its own bottle. Hold for a few moments, in the neck of the bottle, two or three lighted matches, and when they have filled the bottle-neck with gas, and before they go out, remove them very quickly ; instantly cork the bottle closely, and dip it in bottle cement. Time.—Altogether about 8 hours. 2154.—TO BOTTLE FRESH FRUIT WITH SUGAR. (Very Useful in Winter.) Ingredients.—Any kind of fresh fruit; to each quart bottle allow £ lb. of pounded sugar. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in dry weather. Pick it carefully, and drop it into clean and very dry quart glass bottles, sprinkling over it the above proportion of pounded sugar to each quart. Put the corks in the bottles, and place them in a copper of cold water up to their necks, with small hay-wisps round them, to prevent the bottles from knocking together. Light the fire under, bring the water gradually to boil, and let it simmer gently until the fruit in the bottles is reduced nearly one third. Extinguish the fire, and let the bottles remain in the water until it is perfectly cold, then take them out, make the corks secure, and cover them with melted resin or wax. Time.—About £ hour from the time the water commences to boil. 2I55._TO frost holly leaves. (For Garnishing and Decorating Dessert and Supper Dishes.) Ingredients.—Sprigs of holly, oiled butter, coarsely-powdered sugar. Mode.—Procure some nice sprigs of holly ; pick the leaves from the stalks, and wipe them with a clean cloth free from all moisture; then