1639 Vaccination. One Shilling for Attendance.—If in pursuance of a written requisition, the regis- trar registers the birth at the residence of the person who makes such requisition, or at the house in which the birth took place (not being a public institution) the registrar is entitled to demand and receive from the informant a fee ot one S^After Three Months.— If the birth be not duly registered within three months, the registrar (being informed of the birth) is authorised and required, at some time within twelve months after the birth, by notice in writing, to require any of the responsible persons to attend at the district register office within such time (not less than seven days after receipt of notice, and not more than twelve months after the date of the birth) as may be specified in the notice, and make before the superintendent registrar a solemn declaration of the particulars required to be registered, and sign the register in the presence of the superin- tendent registrar, who must also sign. The fees then payable by the responsible person amount to five shillings. After Twelve Months.—A birth cannot be registered more than twelve months after it occurs unless with the written authority of the Registrar-General, subject to special forms prescribed and payment of fees amounting to ten shillings. Removals.—Every responsible person who removes from the place of a birth into another sub-district before registration has been effected continues responsible for such registration, but may effect it within three months by delivering a declaration in writing to the registrar of the sub-district removed to, and the payment of a fee of two shillings. . , Baptismal Name.—If a child, after registration, is baptised m any other or additional name, the minister who performs the ceremony is required, on request, to give a certificate to that effect on payment of a fee not exceeding one shilling, and such altered or additional name may be entered on the register on payment of a fee of one shilling. . , , Correction of Errors.—If am.error of fact be registered with reference to any child, such error may be corrected on payment of a fee of half-a-crown. Penalties.—Several penalties are now enforced with reference to registration ot births which were previously unknown, and other penalties are retained, as thus enumerated :— . Every responsible person who wilfully refuses to answer legal questions, or fails to comply with any legal requisition, forty shillings ; or Who wilfully makes any false statement, £10, or imprisonment with or without hard labour for two years, or penal servitude for seven years. 3731. Vaccination.—This being a subject which has excited so much observation, the following details are given :— A uthorised Vaccinators.—Every physician and every surgeon, duly qualified as such according to law, is authorised to vaccinate. Any other person who vaccinates, or attempts to vaccinate, is liable to a month’s imprisonment for every offence. Compulsion.—Every child is required to be vaccinated, under a penalty of 20s. payable by the person responsible. . Discretion of Parents.—Parents may procure the vaccination or re-vaccination ot their children by any authorised person—usually the medical attendant of the family—who, of course, gives a certificate when the operation is duly completed. Responsible Persons.—Every person in custody of a child is responsible, so far as vaccination is concerned, as if such person were one of the parents. Vaccination Officers.—Every board of guardians is bound to have and pay a vac- cination officer, or more than one officer if required by the Local Government Board. . , Every registrar of births and deaths is under an obligation to deliver to tne vaccination officer, at least once a month, a list of all the births and all the deaths