Table Decorations. 135^ filled with crimson flowers and foliage, also a pale pink one, upon which the flowers are of two tones of the same colour, with a good deal of white and green intermixed, the shades of the lamps being rose colour. Dessert centres are more suitable for winter than summer decoration. Choose the flowers according to the season and centre, if one is used. In summer, a cool effect is needed, and plenty of white and green should be found upon the table ; while in winter it is pleasant to see brilliantly coloured flowers, that seem to give warmth as well as brightness to the table. Glasses through which the stem of the flowers can be seen should be filled with water, but bowls or opaque stands can be filled with moss or sand, in which it is far easier to arrange the flowers than in water. 3070. Strewing.—This is an exceedingly pretty way of decorating the table, but it unfortunately happens sometimes that the flowers wither or become disarranged. It is necessary to choose such flowers and foliage as will bear heat and lie without water for a ime for this purpose. Ivy leaves come in here well, as does also myrtle and French fern, and foli- age generally looks better alone than with flowers, particularly for a border for a dessert centre. 3071. A Decoration for each Season. — Spring. — An oval centre of daffodil velvet, three cocus weddeliana palms, the centre one a trifle higher than the others, placed down this : at each base, moss, different coloured foli- age and fern ; at each side, between the palms, two slender vases hold- ing daffodils and fern, similar vases of smaller size set before each tripod fairy lamps. person, holding a few lilies of the valley and some Neapolitan violets. A Summer Decoration.—In the centre, a small fountain falling over a base of water lilies, moss and fern, mixed with reeds and grass, round this six baskets of alternately pale pink and yellow roses. To each person, a single white rose and foliage, in a small globe. An Autumn Decoration.—In the centre, a tall grass-like plant, with green and white leaves set in a lovely mass of autumn foliage, whose tints vary from the palest yellow to the deepest red, four smaller plants and vases to correspond, the table strewn in graceful, wreathy patterns with burberis, brown ivy, myrtle and mountain-ash berries. A Winter Decoration.—A crimson plush centre, fringed with holly and other evergreen leaves. A set of white china vases filled with crimson, yellc7/ and white chrysanthemums and foliage.