Pig's Liver. 555 1211.—TO CURE PIG’S CHEEKS. (Fr.—Hure de Cochon.) Ingredients.—Salt, \ oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of bay-salt, 4 oz. of coarse sugar. Mode.—Cut out the snout, remove the brains and split the head, taking off the upper bone to make the jowl a good shape; rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day; cover the head with saltpetre, bay-salt and coarse sugar, in the above proportion, adding a little common salt. Let the head be often turned, and when it has been in the pickle for 10 days, smoke it for a week or rather longer. Time.—To remain in the pickle, 10 days; to be smoked, 1 week. Average Cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable.—Should be made from September to March. Note.—A pig's cheek, or Bath chap, will take about 2 hours after the water boils, 1212.—PIG’S LIVER. (Fr.—Foie de Cochon.) (A Savoury and Economical Dish.) Ingredients.—The liver and lights of a pig, 6 or 7 slices of bacon, potatoes, 1 large bunch of parsley, 2 onions, 2 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a little broth or water. Mode.—Slice the liver and lights, and wash these perfectly clean, and parboil the potatoes; mince the parsley and sage, and chop the onion rather small. Put the meat, potatoes, and bacon into a deep tin dish, in alternate layers, with a sprinkling of the herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt between each; pour on a little water or broth, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from October to March. 1213.—PIG’S PETTITOES. (Fr.—Pieds de Cochon.) Ingredients.—Pig’s feet, liver and heart, a thin slice of bacon, 1 onion, 1 blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, 3 or 4 sprigs of thyme, 1 pint of gravy, pepper and salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put the liver, heart and pettitoes into a stewpan with the bacon, mace, peppercorns, thyme, onion and gravy, and simmer these gently for a quarter of an hour; then take out the heart and liver, and mince them very fine. Keep stewing the feet until quite tender, which will be in from 20 minutes to half an hour, reckoning from the time that they boiled up first ; then put back the minced liver, thicken the gravy