Plain Fritters. 953 really not so if made when pine-apples are plentiful. We receive them now in such large quantities from the West Indies, that at times they may be purchased at an exceedingly low rate ; it would not, of course, be economical to use the pines which are grown in our English pineries for the purposes of fritters. Pare the pine with as little waste as possible, cut it into rather thin slices, and soak these slices in the above pro- portion of brandy or liqueur and pounded sugar for 4 hours: then make a batter the same as for apple fritters, substituting cream for the milk, and using a smaller quantity of flour ; and when this is ready, dip in the pieces of pine, and fry them in boiling lard from 5 to 8 minutes; turn them when sufficiently brown on one side, and, when done, drain them from the lard before the fire, dish them on a white d’oyley, strew over them sifted sugar and serve quickly. Time.—5 to 8 minutes. Average Cost, when cheap and plentiful, is. 6d. for the pine, or tinned pine may be used. Sufficient for 3 or,4 persons. Seasonable in July and August. Pine-apple.—The pine-apple has not been known in Europe above two hundred years, and has not been cultivated in England much above a century. It is stated that the first pine-apples raised in Europe were by M. La Gour, of Leydon, about the middle of the 17th century; and it is said to have been first cultivated in England by Sir Matthew Decker, of Richmond. In Kensington Palace, there is a picture in whiclfCharles II. is represented as receiving a pine-apple from his gardener Rose, who is presenting it on his knees. 2037.—PLAIN FRITTERS. (Fr.—Beignets au Sucre.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of flour, 3 eggs, £ pint of milk. Mode.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter with a small quantity of the milk; stir in the eggs, which should be well whisked, and then the remainder of the milk ; beat the whole to a perfectly smooth batter, and should it be found not quite thin enough, add 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls more milk. Have ready a frying- pan, with plenty of boiling lard in it: drop in rather more than a tablespoonful at a time of the batter, and fry the fritters a nice brown, turn- ing them when sufficiently cooked on one side. Drain them well from the greasy moisture by placing them upon a piece of blotting-paper before the fire; dish them on a white d’oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and send to table with them a cut lemon and plenty of pounded sugar. Time.—From 6 to 8 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. STAR FRITTER-MOULD.