Menu Cards. 1352 found some designs easy to carry out which would look well on border cards, these showing up so much better on the table-cloth than the plain white ones. These simple cards are meant for those who do not attempt painting, but it is not difficult to see how a little artistic effect might be put into these with a few touches of colour. Thus, for example, a trail of ivy or other creeper thrown over the gate, a coloured easel upon which the white card could rest, and a coloured flag and a tint given to the boat, would all be improvements. Still, without these, a neat-looking card can be quickly made with only the aid of a fine pen, ink and a ruler. It would, however, be a good plan to use two different-coloured inks, say, black to make the sketches, and red to write in the menu and the name. This last-named task should be given to those who can write small, neat, legible hands, for a written menu should be as easy to read as a printed one. We have given all our principal menus in French as well as English, so that they can be written in either language upon the cards. Other designs easy to carry out with only pen, ink and ruler would De a fan, a ladder, or a flight of steps, the courses being written upon the staves, the rungs, or the steps, as the case may be. The inexperienced will find that it is better to write out the menu first, just to see what space it will occupy, it is then easy enough to copy. We only offer these simple patterns as suggestions, but inventive minds will easily evolve others more original and effective. On the second page are some of the prettiest of the cards sold for the purpose of menus. These are of course more elaborate, but still they could be easily copied by those who have a talent for drawing or painting. There is no question that a hand-painted or etched card is much nicer than a bought one, if only that it can be taken by the guests as a little token of attention and desire to please her guests on the part of the hostess ; so we advise all who can to make their own menus, being assured that their friends will carry them away as souvenirs of a pleasant party. The slipper illustrated is a quaint little fancy. It should be painted in some pretty tint, and the card left white. In the illustration is given a folding card, but it need not be one. The corner with a castle and flag might easily be etched. The dish menu would look well painted in dark blue, with suggestions of the ever-popular willow pattern upon it, while the white card would stand out well. The clock menu is a charming idea, and it must be remembered that the hands of the timepiece should point to the hour when dinner is served ; the corner spoon and fork have a pleasant suggestion of good things and hospitality, and gives an idea that perhaps could be improved upon by other adjuncts of the dinner, such as a goblet or claret jug, &c. The folding shell with the greedy little cupids would look well carried out in faint tints of pink and blue, and would make a very elegant little card The border card with the corner pinned down with a fork might show on it the crest or monogram of the donor of the dinner, or, if preferred, the name of the guest. The boat should have the menu written on the divisions of the sails, which should be left white, the mast, flag and boat itself being in colour. In the centre of the page is given a very fanciful, though slightly confusing, design, it being in fact a number of menu cards thrown together, with one course written on each. A variation of the same design might be made by substituting playing cards for these more elaborate ones, putting them round in order, from one to ten, if that were the number of the courses, with either a king or queen in the centre, with the guest’s name underneath.