Thickening for Sauces. 301 unless it is intended to form lumps ; but it must first be stirred to a smooth paste with cold liquid, and then the hot poured over it; or it must be mixed with a little melted fat over the fire when hot, or cold liquid can be added gradually. As a general rule, this is the best way to mix all flour sauces : melt the fat, stir in the flour ; and when they are well mixed and there are no lumps, add liquid gradually, on or off the fire, stirring continually till all boils. Sometimes the flour is cooked in the fat until it takes a brown colour, more or less dark. This is one way of colouring sauce and is called “roux.” The flour so cooked does not thicken quite so much as uncooked flour, and therefore rather more should be used. 645. Eggs in sauces.—Eggs are also used to thicken sauces, sometimes the yolk only, sometimes both yolk and white, and both with and without the addition of flour. They must be well stirred and never be allowed to heat to boiling, as the yolk then hardens, and will not mix with the sauce ; but they must be heated enough to slightly coagulate the albumen, or the sauce does not thicken. To pour boiling liquid very gradually over the eggs in a basin is often sufficient. The safest way to cook an egg-sauce is in a basin or jug standing in a pan of boiling water, or in a bain marie, made on purpose ; but an ordinary saucepan can be used if with care. On the least appearance of “ curdling,” the sauce should be lifted from the fire, poured into a cold basin and stirred. 646. Vegetable sauces.—In many other sauces the thickening is made by rubbing vegetables or fruit through a sieve. These purees should stand about midway between vegetable soup and purees of vegetables served as entrees or with the second course, neither so thick as one nor so thin as the other. Cream and butter added to sauce just before serving should not be allowed to boil. 647. TJtensils for sauce-maJcing.—lt is essential to success that pro- per utensils for sauce-making be provided. The first of these are wooden spoons and round-bottomed saucepans. It is very difficult to prevent lumps in a sauce if it has to be made with a pointed spoon and a flat-bottomed saucepan. And then the pans must be scrupulously clean ; for in a dirty pan a bad colour for white sauce and a bad flavour for all is inevitable. One great use of copper pans is that they are cleaned both inside and out, when iron pans are neglected. 648. Colouring for sauce.—As a rule, sauces should be of some decided colour. If they are white, they should be very white; if they are called brown, they should not be grey ; nor if red, a dull pink. In order to get these decided colours, artificial colouring matter is used. Brown is the most common and the most harmless, for it is produced by roasted flour, sugar, or vegetable, which add to the flavour as well as the appearance, if the roasting is not carried to the point of burning. Onion skins contain much colouring matter of a harmless kind. Home-made browning is to be preferred to what is bought, which has often a disagreeable flavour of liquorice. The home-made is, besides, much cheaper. Most bought sauces are coloured, and so serve a double purpose. For red colouring the cochineal insect, and also beetroot juice are used in pri- vate houses; but these are now less common than the prepared cochineal sold in bottles which is very often adulterated with magenta, one of the aniline dyes. Red earth, or bole Armenian, is used to colour potted meats, pickles, &c. Lobster spawn gives a brilliant scarlet, quite different to the crimson of cochineal or magenta. Spinach green is always harmless. It is the only green colouring suitable for kitchen use. Many greens contain arsenic ; and sulphate of copper is used to give the bright colour to pickles. It can be detected by its speedy discoloration of silver. The brilliant green of well-cooked green vegetables, in garnish, or sauce has