404 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Marrow Bones.—Bones are formed of a dense cellular tissue of membranous matter, made stiff and rigid by insoluble earthy salts ; of which, phosphate of lime is the most abundant. In a large bone, the insoluble matter is generally deposited in such a manner as to leave a cavity, into which a fatty substance, distinguished by the name of marrow, is thrown. Hollow cylindrical bones possess the qualities of strength and lightness in a remarkable degree. If bones were entirely solid they would be unnecessarily heavy ; and if their materials were brought into smaller compass, they would be weaker, because the strength of the bone is in pro- portion to the distance at which its fibres are from the centre. Some animals, it must, however, be observed, have no cavities ki the centre of their bones: such as the whale tribe, skate, and turtles. MARROW-BONES. 903.-M OULDED MINCEMEAT. (Fr —Boudin de Bceuf, Mouton, &c.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of lean meat chopped fine, an onion chopped fine, a tablespoonful of fine bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, a salt- Bpoonful of white pepper, a teacupful of gravy of meat (this may be obtained by boiling the pieces left after cutting the lean for mincing, Straining and seasoning the liquor). Mode.—Stir all these ingredients together till well mixed, and let Ihem stand 30 minutes. Rub a deep bowl with butter, press the mince- meat well into it, and cover it with a plate. Stand the bowl in a pan Df water, and cook in a moderate oven for an hour. Turn it out carefully, and serve with any of the following sauces hot: For mutton, gravy with a dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly stirred in ; for beef, gravy flavoured with mushrooms or horseradish sauce; for veal or fowl, tomato sauce; br pork, apple sauce, fresh onions, or onion sauce. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Seasonable at any time. 904 —MINCED BEEF. (Fr— Eminc6 de Bceuf.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—1 oz. of butter, 1 small onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of gravy left from the meat, 1 tablespoonful of strong ale, £ a teaspoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste, a few slices of lean roast beef. Mode.—Put into a stewpan the butter, with an onion chopped fine; add the gravy, ale and half a teaspoonful of flour to thicken ; season with pepper and salt, and stir these ingredients over the fire until the onion is a rich brown. Cut, but not chop the meat very fine, add it to the gravy, stir till quite hot, and serve. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Be careful in not allowing the gravy to boil after the meat is added, as it would render it hard and tough. Time.—About £ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 3d. Seasonable at any time.