420 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Mode.—Cut up the steak and kidney into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a pie-dish, with a good seasoning of salt and pepper ; mix the flour with a small quantity of milk at first, to prevent its being lumpy; add the remainder, and the 3 eggs, which should be well beaten; put in the salt, stir the batter for about 5 minutes, and pour it over the steak. Place it in a tolerably brisk oven immediately, and bake for one and a half hour. Time.—1£ hour. Average Cost, 25. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of cold beef, rather underdone, may be substituted for the steak, and, when liked, the smallest possible quantity of minced onion or shalot may be added. 938.—BOILED TONGUE. (Fr —Langue de Boeuf.) Ingredients.—1 tongue, a bunch of savoury herbs, water. Mode.—In choosing a tongue, ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, and select one with a smooth skin, which denotes its being young and tender. If a dried one, and rather hard, soak it at least for 12 hours previous to cooking it.; if, however, it is fresh from the pickle, 2 or 3 hours will be sufficient for it to remain in soak. Put the tongue into a stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs; let it gradually come to a boil, skim well, and simmer very gently until tender. Peel off the skin, garnish with tufts of cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts and serve. Boiled tongue is frequeutly sent to table with boiled poultry, instead of ham, and is, by many persons, preferred. If to serve cold, peel it, fasten it down to a piece of board by sticking a fork through the root, and another through the top to straighten it. When cold, glaze it, and put a paper ruche round the root, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Time.—A large smoked tongue, 4 to 4^ hours; a small one, 2\ to 3 hours. A large unsoaked tongue, 3 to 3^- hours; a small one, 2 to 2% hours. Average Cost, for a moderate sized unsmoked tongue, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 939.—TO CURE TONGUE. (Fr.—Langue de Boeuf Salee.) Ingredients.—For a tongue of 7 lbs., 1 oz. of saltpetre, \ oz, of black pepper, 4 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of juniper berries, 6 oz. of salt. Mode.—Rub the above ingredients well into the tongue, and let it remain in the pickle for 10 days or a fortnight; then drain it, tie it up in brown paper, and have it smoked for about 20 days over a wood fire ; or it may be boiled out of this pickle. - .