gi8 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. pewter or tin for red jellies, the colour and transparency of the com- position being often spoiled by using the latter. To make jelly more economically, raisin wine may be substituted for tbe sherry and brandy, or, in fact, any wholesome home-made red or white wine ; orange is to be recommended, and red-currant will impart a pretty hue to jellies and blanc-manges, especially if these be desired of two colours. In making jellies or blanc-manges, however, of two or more colours, great care must be taken to let one get thoroughly cool first. Note.—As lemon-juice, unless carefully strained, is liable to make the jelly muddy, see that it is clear before it is added to the other ingredients. Omit the brandy when the flavour is objected to. Sherry.—There are several kinds ot sherry, as pale and browr, and there are various degrees of each. Sherry is, in general, of an amber colour, and, when good, has a fine aromatic odour, with something of the agreeable bitterness of the peach kerrel. When new, it is harsh and fiery, and requires to be mellowed in the wood for four or five years. 1961.—FRIED PUFFS. (Fn-Cannelons.) (Sweet Entremets.) Ingredients.—I lb. of puff-paste, No. 1674, apricot, or any kind of preserve that may be preferred ; hot lard. Mode.—Cannelons, which are made of puff-paste rolled very thin, with jam enclosed, and cut out in long narrow rolls or puffs, make a very pretty and elegant dish. Make some good puff-paste, by recipe No. 1674 ; roll it out very thin, and cut it into pieces of an equal size, about 2 inches wide and 8 inches long ; place upon each piece a spoonful of jam, wet the edges with the white of egg, and fold the paste over twice; slightly press the edges together that the jam may not escape in the frying ; and when all are prepared, fry them in boiling lard until of a nice brown, letting them remain by the side of the fire after they are coloured, that the paste may be thoroughly done. Drain them before the fire, dish on a d’oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and serve. These cannelons are very delicious made with fresh instead of preserved fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, or currants; they should be laid in the paste, plenty of pounded sugar sprinkled over, and folded and fried in the same manner as stated above. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient.—| lb. of paste for a moderate-sized dish of cannelons. Seasonable, with jam, at any time. 1962.—APPLE CHARLOTTE. (Fr.—Charlotte aux Pommes.) Ingredients.—A few slices of rather stale bread, £ inch thick; clarified butter, apple marmalade, made by recipe No. 1931, with about 2 dozen apples, £ glass of sherry.