66i Carving of Boiled Fowl. by cutting pieces from the breast in the direction indicated by the lines marked from A to B, commencing to carve the slices close to the wing, and then proceeding upwards from that to the breast-bone. If more should be wanted than can be obtained from both sides of the breast, then the legs and wings must be attacked in the same way as is described in connection with carving a fowl. It may here be remarked that, as the legs of a duck are placed far more backward than those of a fowl, their position causing the waddling motion of the bird, the thigh-bones will be found consider- ably nearer towards the backbone than in a chicken: this is the only difference worth mentioning. The carver should ask each guest if a portion of stuffing would be agreeable ; and in order to get at this, a cut should be made below the breast, as shown by the line from C to D, at the part called the “ apron,” and the spoon inserted. (As described in the recipe, it is an excellent plan, when a couple of ducks are served, to have one with and the other without stuffing.) As to the prime parts of a duck, it has been said that “ the wings of a flyer and the legs of a swimmer” are severally the best portions. Some persons are fond of the feet of the duck ; and in trussing, these should never be taken off. The leg, wing and neckbone are here shown; so that it will be easy to see the shape they should be when cut off, 1371.-BOILED FOWL. This will not be found a very difficult member of the poultry family to carve, unless, as may hap- pen, a very old farmyard occupant, useless for egg- laying purposes, has, by some unlucky mischance, been introduced into the kitchen as a “ fine young chicken.” Skill, however, and the application of a small amount of strength, combined with a fine keep- ing of the temper, will even get over that difficulty. Fixing the fork firmly in the breast, let the knife be sharply passed along the line shown from A to B ; then cut downwards from that line to C ; and the wing, it will be found, can be easily withdrawn. The shape of the wing should be like the accompanying engraving. Let the fork be placed inside the, leg, which should be gently forced away from the body of the fowl; and the joint, being thus discovered, the carver can readily cut through it, and the leg can be served. BOILED FOWL. i