Rice Bread. 2412.-TO MAKE A PECK OF BREAD. 1095 Ingredients.—3 lbs. of potatoes, 6 pints of cold water, ^ pint of brewer’s yeast, 1 peck of flour, 2 oz. of salt. Mode.—Peel and boil the potatoes, beat them to a cream while warm ; then add a pint of cold water, strain through a colander and add to it half a pint of good yeast, which should have been put in water over- night, to take off its bitterness. Stir all well together with a wooden spoon, and pour the mixture into the centre of the flour ; mix it to the substance of cream, cover it over closely and let it remain near the fire for an hour ; then add the 5 pints of water, milk-warm, with 2 oz. of salt ; pour this in, and mix the whole to a nice light dough. Let it remain for about 2 hours ; then make it into 7 loaves, and bake for about i.-J- hour in a good oven. When baked, the bread should weigh nearly 20 lbs. Time.—About 1^ hour. The Red Varieties of Wheat are generally hardier and more easily grown than the white sorts, and, although of less value to the miller, they are fully more profit- red able to the grower, in consequence of the better crops which they produce. Another winter advantage the red wheats possess is their comparative immunity from the attacks of wheat. mildew and fly. The best English wheat comes from the counties of Kent, Norfolk and Essex; the qualities under these heads always bearing a higher price than others, as will be seen by the periodical lists in the journals. 2413.-RICE BREAD. Ingredients.—To every lb. of rice allow 4 lbs. of wheat flour, nearly 3 tablespoonfuls of yeast, £ oz. of salt. Mode.—Boil the rice in water until it is quite tender; pour off the water, and put the rice, before it is cold, to the flour. Mix these well to gether with the yeast, salt, and sufficient warm water to make the whole into a smooth dough ; let it rise by the side of the fire, then form it into loaves, and bake them from i£ to 2 hours, according to their size ■. If the rice is boiled in milk instead of water, it makes very delicious bread or cakes. When boiled in this manner, it may be mixed with the flour with- out straining the liquid from it. Time.—to 2 hours. Average Cost, 8d. per loaf. 2414.—INDIAN CORN-FLOUR BREAD. Ingredients.—To every 4 lbs. of flour allow 2 lbs. of Indian-corn flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of yeast, 3 pints of warm water, ^ oz. of salt. Mode .—Mix the two flours well together, with the salt; make a hole in the centre, and stir the yeast up well with half a pint of the warm water; put this in the middle of the flour, and mix enough of it with the