Spinach Pudding. 1305 Mode.—Clean the larks, bone them and stuff them with liver and herbs chopped very fine. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, place the larks on them and just cover with stock. Simmer for about a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile peel and blanch the onions; let them cool, wipe them quite dry and take out enough of the inside to leave room for the larks and a little forcemeat. Put a little forcemeat in each onion and a lark over it, replacing the head with a little forcemeat, taking care to remove the eyes. Salt the onions slightly, cover with slices of lard and pieces of paper and put in a baking pan in the oven, long enough to set the stuffing. Take out with care, put on a cloth first to drain off the fat, and then on an entree dish. Glaze and serve with sauce espagnole, adding a little lemon-juice. Time.—About f hour. Average Cost, 4s. to 5s. Sufficient for 10 persons. Seasonable.—In full season in November. LARKS IN ONIONS. 2970.—PHEASANT ALLA NAPOLETANA. Ingredients.—1 pheasant, lardoons, fib. of macaroni, 2 oz. of butter, f pint of beef or veal gravy, 6 oz. Parmesan cheese, 2 large tomatoes or a little tomato sauce. Mode—Lard the pheasant and roast on a spit before a brisk fire, basting frequently, till well done. Cut up the bird most carefully, put together again, and serve carefully upon a bed of macaroni stewed with butter, gravy, cheese and tomatoes, with sauce napoletana (see recipe for Cod alia Napoletana) in a boat. Time.—For the pheasant f to 1 hour; for the macaroni if to if hours. Average Cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to February, 2971.—SPINACH PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of spinach, f lb. of veal forcemeat, 2 oz. of butter, f pint of bechamel sauce, f pint of stock, 3 eggs, salt, pepper, a few potatoes, turnips and carrots. Mode.—Pick, cleanse and wash the spinach thoroughly; then boil, drain, cool, and put into a saucepan with the butter, bechamel sauce and stock, and simmer for about 5 minutes. The spinach must have been