Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 760 1591.-BAKED SPANISH ONIONS. (Fr.—Oignons.) Ingredients.—4 or 5 Spanish onions, salt and water. Mode.—Put the onions, with their skins on, into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, and let them boil quickly for an hour. Then take them out, wipe them thoroughly, wrap each one in a piece of buttered paper, and bake them in a moderate oven for 2 hours, or longer, should the onions be very large. They may be served in their skins and eaten with a piece of cold butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt; or they may be peeled, and a good brown gravy poured over them. Time.—1 hour to boil, 2 hours to bake. Average Cost, medium-sized, 2d. each. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from September to January. onion. The Genus Allium.—The onion, like the leek, garlic and shalot, belongs to the genus Allium, which isa numerous species of vegetable; and every one of them possesses, more or less a volatile and acrid penetrating principle, pricking the thin transparent membrane of the eylids ; and all are very similar in their properties. In the whole of them the bulb is the most active part, and any one of them may supply the place of the other ; for they are all irritant, excitant and vesicant. With many, the onion is a very great favourite, and is an ex- tremely nutritive vegetable. The Spanish kind is frequently taken for supper, it being simply boiled, and then seasoned with salt, pepper and butter. Some dredge on a little flour, but many Vrefer it without this. 1592.—BURNT ONIONS FOR GRAVIES. Ingredients.—| lb. of onions, £ pint of water, £ lb. of moist sugar, | pint of vinegar. Mode.— Peal and chop the onions fine, and put them into a stewpan, (not tinned), with the water; let them boil for 5 minutes, then add the sugar, and simmer gently until the mixture becomes nearly black and throws out bubbles of smoke. Have ready the above proportion of boiling vinegar, strain the liquor gradually to it, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon until it is well incorporated. When cold, bottle for use. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour. Properties of the Onion.—The onion is possessed of a white, acrid, volatile oil, holding sulphur in solution, albumen, a good deal of uncrystallizable sugar and mucilage ; phosphoric acid, both free and combined with lime; acetic acid, citrate of lime and lignine. Of all the species of allium, the onion has the volatile principle in the greatest degree; and hence it is impossible to separate the scales of the root without the eyes being affected. The juice is sensibly acid and is capable of being by fermentation converted into vinegar; and mixed with water or dregs of beer, yields, by distillation, an alcoholic liquor. Although used as a common esculent, onions are-not suited to all stomachs ; there are some who cannot eat them either fried or roasted, whilst others prefer them boiled, which is the best way of using them, as by the process they then undergo they are deprived of their essential oil. Many persons who cannot eat onions in pie or stew, if they are put in raw, find them quite digestible if they are first scalded for a quarter of an hour.