Fore Quarter of Lamb. 511 hash, and dish it with the bladebone in the centre. It may be garnished with croutons or sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether 2^ hours. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat 6 d. Seasonable.—From Easter to Michaelmas. 1119.-ROAST FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. (Fr.—Quartier de Devant.) Ingredients.—Lamb, a little salt. Mode.—To obtain the flavour of lamb in perfection, it should not be long kept; time to cool is all that is required ; and though the meat may be somewhat thready, the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb that has been killed 2 or 3 days. Make up the fire in good time, that it may be clear and brisk when the joint is put down. Place it at sufficient distance to prevent the fat from burning, and baste it constantly till the moment of serving. Lamb should be very thoroughly done without being dried up, and not the slightest appearance of red gravy should be this rule is applicable to all young white meats. Serve with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, the same as for other roasts, and send to table with it a tureen of mint sauce and, if liked, fresh salad. A cut lemon, a small piece of fresh butter and a little cayenne, should also be placed on the table, so that when the carver separates the shoulder from the ribs, they may be ready for his use; if, however, he should not be very expert, we would recommend that the cook should divide these joints nicely before coming to table. Time.—Fore-quarter of lamb weighing 10lbs., 1$ to 2 hours. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. 1120.—BOILED LEG OF LAMB WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE. (Fr.—Gigot d’Agneau a la Bdchamel.) Ingredients.—Leg of lamb, bechamel sauce, No. 665. Mode.—Do not choose a very large joint, but one weighing about 5 lbs. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, into which plunge the lamb, and when it boils up again, draw it to the side of the fire, and let the water cool a little. Then stew very gently for hour, reckoning from the time that the water begins to simmer. Make some Bechamel by recipe No. FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. visible, as in roast mutton :