&j2 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 1778.-GINGER PUDDING. Ingredients.—| lb. of flour, \ lb. of suet, lb. of moist sugar, 2 large teaspoonfuls of grated ginger. Mode.—Shred the suet very fine, mix it with the flour, sugar, and ginger; stir all well together; butter a basin, and put the mixture in dry ; tie a cloth over, and boil for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 5d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1779-—GINGERBREAD PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of gingerbread, £ lb. of flour, 1 oz. of treacle, 1 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of almonds, blanched and pounded, one egg, £ pint of milk. Mode.—Crumble the gingerbread, which is best stale, into a basin, and mix with the flour, stir in the treacle, sugar, and almonds, beat the egg and milk together for five minutes, add and mix thoroughly, and boil 2! hours. Time.—z\ hours to boil. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1780.—GOLDEN PUDDING. Ingredients.—\ lb. of bread-crumbs, \ lb. of suet, 1 lb. of marmalade, \ lb. of sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.—Put the bread-crumbs into a basin ; mix them with the suet, which should be finely minced, the marmalade, and the sugar; stir all these ingredients well together, beat the eggs to a froth, moisten the pudding with these, and, when well mixed, put it into a mould or buttered basin ; tie down with a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. When turned out, strew a little fine-sifted sugar over the top, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, grf. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The mould may be ornamented with stoned raisins, arranged in any fanciful pattern, before the mixture is poured in, which would add very much to the appearance of the pudding. For a plainer pudding, double the quantity of the bread-crumbs, and if the eggs do not moisten it sufficiently, use a little milk. I78i.-BAKED gooseberry pudding. Ingredients.—1 i pint of gooseberries, 3 eggs, oz. of butter, £ pint of bread-crumbs, sugar to taste. Mode.—Put the gooseberries into ajar, previously cutting off the tops and tails; place this jar in boiling water: and let it boil until the goose-