The Mistress. fa of art, or article of vertu, which may pleasantly engage the attention of the company. Photograph albums, crest albums, new music, will aid to pass a few moments pleasantly. “ Waiting for Dinner," however, is a trying time, and there are few who have not felt—. “ How sad it is to sit and pine, The long half-hour before we dine! Upon our watches oft to look, Then wonder at the clock and cook, * * * * » And strive to laugh in spite of Fate But laughter forced soon quits the room, And leaves it in its former gloom. But lo ! the dinner now appears— The object of our hopes and fears, The end of all our pain ! ’’ In giving an entertainment of this kind, the mistress sliouid remember that it is her duty to make her guests feel happy, comfortable, and quite at their ease; and the guests should also consider that they have come to the house of their hostess to be happy. Thus an opportunity is given to all for innocent enjoyment and intellectual improvement, when also acquaintances may be formed that may prove invaluable through life, and information gained that will enlarge the mind. Many celebrated men and women have been great talkers; and, amongst others, the genial Sir Walter Scott, who spoke freely to everyone, and a favourite remark of whom it was, that he never did so without learning something he didn't know. 29. Going to Dinner.—Dinner having been announced, the host offers his arm to, and places on his right hand at the dinner-table, the lady to whom he desires to pay most respect, either on account of her age, position, or from her being the greatest stranger in the party. If this lady be married and her husband present, the latter takes the hostess—who always enters the dining-room last—to her place at table, and seats himself at her right hand. The rest of the company follow the host in couples, as specified by the master or mistress of the house, the whole party being arranged according to their rank and other circumstances which may be known to the host and hostess. It will be found of great assistance to the placing of a party at the dinner-table, to have the names of the guests neatly (and correctly) written on small cards, and placed at that part ot the table where it is desired they should sit. It is a matter of taste what cards should be used for this purpose; small plain ones are perfectly admissible, but those with gold, silver or coloured borders are more effective and show more distinctly, laid as they are upon either white table- cloths or serviettes. Some with floral ornamentation are sometimes used, but are, as a rule, rather out of harmony with the real flowers with which the dinner table is so invariably de- corated. Sometimes the menu card is a double one, which folds like a ball programme, and upon the outside of this the guest’s name is written. With respect to the number of guests, it has often been said, that a private dinner-party should consist of not less than the number of the Graces, or more than that of the Muses. A party of ten or twelve is, perhaps, in a general way, sufficient to enjoy themselves and be enjoyed. Gloves are worn by ladies at dinner- parties, but should be taken off before the business of dining commences. 30. The Dinner a la Russe, introduced into this country some years since, has been received with various degrees of satisfaction and encouragement Some mistresses have attempted it, and have relinquished the plan ; others have considered it a success, and maintain the style. It is impossible ro decide, abso- lutely, whether the old style or the new is the better, because many conditions govern the verdict Further on in this work, in its proper place, are stated all the necessary details for serving a dinner a la Russe; but we may at this point say, that for a household which is not very well appointed, and has not ampls space and resources of plates, dishes, and stores of knives and forks larger than