ioio Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. consequence they raise better peaches than anywhere else in France. In Maryland and Virginia peaches grow nearly wild, in orchards resembling forests; but the fruit is of very little value for the table, being employed only in fattening hogs and for the distillation of peach brandy. On the east side of the Andes, peaches grow wild among the cornhelds and in the mountains, and are dried as an article of food. The young leaves of the peach are sometimes used in cookery, from their agreeable flavour: and a liqueur Resembling the fine no>eau of Martinique may be made by steeping thorn in brandy sweetened with sugar and fined with milk ; gin may also be flavoured in the same manner. The kernels of the fruit have the same flavour. The nectarine is said to have received its name from nectar, the particular drink of the gods. Though it is considered as the same species as the peach, it is not known which of the varieties come from the other, the nectarine is by some considered as the superior fruit. 2185.—PEACHES IN BRANDY. (A simple recipe for Preserve.) Ingredients.—6 lbs. of peaches, 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, 3 pints of best pale French brandy. Mode.—The fruit must not be too ripe ; peel it, then weigh, and put it into a jar with sugar and brandy in the above proportions. Cork it well, set it in a saucepan of boiling water, taking care the water does not come over the top of the jar. Boil till tender, then keep in a cool dry place. Time.—£ hour. Seasonable in August and September. 2186.—PEACHES PRESERVED IN BRANDY. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed before being stoned, allow } lb. of finely pounded sugar ; brandy. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in dry weather; wipe and weigh it, and remove the stones as carefully as possible, without injuring the peaches much. Put them into ajar, sprinkle amongst them pounded loaf sugar in the above proportion, and pour brandy over the fruit. Cover the jar down closely, place it in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and bring the brandy to the simmering-point, but do not allow it to boil. Take the fruit out carefully, without breaking it; put it into small jars, pour over it the brandy, and when cold, exclude the air by covering the jars with bladders, or tissue paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Apricots may be done in the same manner, and, if properly prepared, will be found delicious. Time.—From 10 to 20 minutes to bring the brandy to the simmering- point. Seasonable in August and September. 2187.-BAKED PEARS. Ingredients.—12 pears, the rind of 1 lemon, 6 cloves, 10 whole all- spice ; to every pint of water allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and cut the pears into halves, and should they be very large, into quarters ; leave the stalks on and carefully remove the cores.