Exercise of Childhood. I5^9 It has been calculated that, for an individual weighing one hundred and fifty pounds and in good health, the daily amount of exercise ought to be equal to that put forth in walking eight and a half miles on level ground. For females of average strength, a smaller amount of pedestrian exercise, amounting to three or four miles daily would generally be appropriate. 3532. Exercise of Childhood.—The amount of exercise in childhood and youth should be most carefully regulated. It is important not to restrict too much the movements of infants, and care should be taken to avoid having their clothing too tight to allow ample freedom of the limbs. During childhood and youth, effort should be made to exercise every important muscle in the body, each in its turn, so as to secure for all a complete and symmetrical development, and consequently a robust health. Bodily exercise, as well as mental exertion, should be regulated with especial care in young girls about the epoch of puberty, since the changes of the con- stitution at that momentous period often render ordinary rules and habits useless or even injurious. ... . . In advanced life, the power, as well as the inclination for actiye exertion, alike fail, but moderate exercise should be encouraged as long as possible. 3533. Sleep.—Sleep is intended to repair the expenditure of power in the system consequent upon mental or bodily fatigue, and its duration should therefore be proportional to the loss of vigour actually met with during the preceding period of daily activity. In early infancy, the active processes of growth and development going on in the budding organism require a correspondingly greater amount of repair, which is largely contributed to by frequent slumbers, which occupy a majority of the twenty-four hours. The necessity for sleep, which is quite imperative in the young child, becomes gradually less and less pressing until, after the age of two or three years is reached, repose during the night only is required. In the prime of manhood or womanhood, the proper period is more readily determined, and is much shorter than that suited to infancy. In advanced life the expenditure of physical and mental power is smaller, and less need of prolonged repose is felt by the system ; although in extreme old age, or second childhood, the body often reverts to its infantile habits of frequent slumber. 3534. Importance of Habit.— Habit, which so powerfully modifies all the bodily functions, exercises a great influence upon the duration of sleep. Those who, from necessity or from choice, remain awake through the night, learn to feel, it is true, as soon as the habit is well established, no necessity for nocturnal sleep; and yet, the enfeebling of their forces and impoverishment of their blood generally go on uninterruptedly. In regard to the influence of temperament, it may be observed that a plethoric habit of body, kept up by full diet, especially of animal food, predisposes to sleep, provided the digestive powers are in vigorous condition. Persons of lym- phatic temperament are usually great sleepers. Thin, wiry people, on the other hand, in whom the nervous temperament predominates, usually require com- paratively little sleep ; but their slumber, while it lasts, is very deep. The amount of sleep is greatly influenced by habit, and, contrary to what might have been anticipated, we find that exceptionally brief sleepers have generally been men of the greatest mental calibre. Thus, Frederick the Great, John Hunter (the often-quoted surgeon) and the first Napoleon, are said to have required only five hours’ sleep out of the twenty-four. As a general rule, from six to eight hours of repose are required in the twenty-four to keep the system in a state of healthful activity.