1160 Recipes for Cooking Milk, Butter, Cheese and Eggs, ROLLER BUTTER-PRINT. 2583.—TO CLARIFY BUTTER FOR POTTING. Mode.—Put a vessel with your butter in it into a saucepan of cold water, placing it over a slow fire until it is melted, then remove it from the fire, clear off the scum, and again warm it gently. When this butter is removed from pots that are to be sent to table it will do excellently for common pie-crust, basting, &c. 2584.-CURLED BUTTER. Mode.—Tie a strong cloth by two of the corners to an iron hook in the wall; make a knot with the other two ends, so that a stick might pass through. Put the butter into the cloth; twist it tightly over a dish, into which the butter will fall through the knot, so forming small and pretty little strings. The butter may then be gar- nished with parsley, if to serve with a cheese course; or it may be sent to table plain for breakfast, in an ornamental dish. Squirted butter for garnishing hams, salads, eggs, &c., is made by forming a piece of stiff paper in the shape of a cornet, and squeezing the butter in fine strings from the hole at the bottom. Scooped butter is made by dipping a teaspoon or scooper in warm water, and then scooping the butter quickly and thin. In warm weather it would not be necessary to heat the spoon. 2585.-FAIRY BUTTER. Ingredients.—The yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, orange-flower-water, 2 tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, £ lb. of fresh butter. Mode.—Beat the yolks of the eggs smoothly in a mortar, with the orange- flower-water and the sugar, until the whole is reduced to a fine paste ; add the butter, and force all through an old but clean cloth by wringing the cloth and squeezing the butter very hard. The butter will then drop on the plate in large and small pieces, according to the holes in the cloth. Plain butter may be done in the same manner, and is very quickly prepared, besides having a very good effect. Butter.-White-coloured butter is said not to be so good as the yellow ; but the yellow colour is often artificially produced, by the introduction of colouring matter into the churn. tablespoonful of FIRKIN OF ELXTER.