Recipes fur Puddings ahd Pastry. §50 Seasonable at any time. 1801.—LEMON PUDDING. {Another Mode. Very Rich.) Ingredients.—The rind and juice of 2 large lemons, £ lb. of loaf sugar,, ^ pint of cream, the yolks of 8 eggs, 2 oz. of almonds, £ lb. of butter, melted. Mode.—Mix the pounded sugar with the cream, and add the yolks of eggs and the butter, which should be previously warmed. Blanch and pound the almonds, and put these, with the grated rind and strained juice of the lemons, to the other ingredients. Stir all well together ; line a dish with puff-paste, put in the mixture, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1802. -BOILED LEMON PUDDING. Ingredients.—^ lb. of chopped suet, f lb. of bread-crumbs, 2 small lemons, 6 oz. of moist sugar, £ lb. of flour, 2 eggs, milk. Mode.—Mix the suet, bread-crumbs, sugar and flour well together, add- ing the lemon-peel, which should be very finely minced, and the juice, which should be strained. When these ingredients are well mixed, moisten with the eggs and sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter ; put it into a well-buttered mould, and boil for 3^ hours; turn it out, strew sifted sugar over, and serve with wine sauce, or not, at pleasure. Time.—3^ hours. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This pudding may also be baked, and will be found very good ; it will take about 2 hours. 1803. —PLAIN LEMON PUDDING. Ingredients.—J lb. of flour, 6 oz. of lard or dripping, the juice of a large lemon, one teaspoonful of flour, sugar. Mode.—Make the above proportions of flour and lard into a smooth paste, and roll it out to the thickness of about half an inch. Squeeze the lemon-juice, strain it into a cup, stir the flour into it, and as much sugar; spread it over the paste, roll it up, secure the ends, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth. Boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.