Skate with Caper Sauce. 257 To Choose Skate.—This fish should be chosen for its firmness, breadth and thickness, and should have a creamy appearance. It should not be kept longer than a day or two. The Skate.—This is one of the Ray tribe, and is extremely abundant and cheap in the fishing towns of England. The flesh is white, thick and nourishing; but, we suppose, from its being so plentiful, it is esteemed less than it ought to be on account of its nutritive pro- perties, and the ease with which it is digested. It is much improved by crimping; in which state it is usually sold in London. The Thornback differs from the true skate by having large spines in its back, of which the other is des- titute. It is taken in great abundance during the spring and summer months, but its flesh is not so good as it is in November. It is, in regard to quality, inferior to that of the true skate. thornback skate. 549-—SKATE WITH CAPER SAUCE (a la Fran$aise). (Fr.—Raie, Sauce aux Capres.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 slices of skate, £ a pint of vinegar, 2 oz. of salt, 4 a teaspoonfnl of pepper, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch of pars- ley, 2 bay-leaves, 2 or 3 sprigs of thyme, sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Put in a fish-kettle all the above ingredients and simmer the skate in them till tender. When it is done, skin it neatly, and pouf over it some of the liquor in which it has been boiling. Drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour over it caper sauce, and send some of the latter to table in a tureen. Time.—$ hour. Average Cost, 2s. Seasonable from August to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—Skate may also be served with onion sauce, or parsley and butter. 550.—SMALL SKATE, FRIED. (Ff.-Raitons Frits.) Ingredients.—Skate, sufficient vinegar to cover them, salt and pepper to taste, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, the juice of £ a lemon, hot dripping. Mode.—Cleanse the skate, lay them in a dish, with sufficient vinegar to Cover them; add the salt, pepper, onion, parsley and lemon juice, and let the fish remain in this pickle for hour. Then drain them well, flour them or egg and bread-crumb them, and fry of a nice brown, in hot dripping. They may be served either with or without sauce. Skate is not good if dressed too fresh, unless it is crimped ; it should, therefore, be kept for a day,*but not long enough to produce a disagreeable smell. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, from 41?. per lb. Seasonable from August to April. Other Speeies of Skate.—Besides the true skate, there are several other species found in cur Seas. These are known as the white skate, the long-nosed skate, and the Homelyn ray, which are of inferior quality, though often crimped, and sold for true skate.