Lemon Sauce. 329 butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of white stock, salt to taste. Mode.—Put the cream into a very clean saucepan (a lined one is best), with the lemon-peel, pepper and thyme, and let these infuse tor half an hour, when simmer gently for a few minutes, or until there is a nice flavour of lemon. Strain it, and add a thickening of butter and flour in the above proportions; stir this well in, and put in the lemon-juice at the moment of serving; mix the stock with the cream and add a little salt. This sauce should not boil after the cream and stock are mixed together. Time.—Altogether, $ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient, this quantity, for a pair of large boiled fowls. Note.—Where the expense of the cream is objected to milk may be substituted for it. In this case, an addi- tional dessertspoonful, or rather more, of flour must be added. Lemon Thyme. (Fr. Thym.) —Two or three tufts of this species of thyme. Thymus citriodorus, usually find a place in the herb compartment of the kitchen garden. It is a trailing evergreen, is of smaller growth than the ordinary common kind, and is remarkable for its smell, which closely resembles that of the rind of a lemon. Hence its distinctive name. It is used for some particular dishes, in which the fragrance of the lemon is desired tc slightly predominate. LEMON THYME. 726.—LEMON SAUCE. (For Sweet Puddings.) Ingredients.—The rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 oz. of butter, 1 large wineglassful of sherry, 1 wineglassful of water, sugar to taste, the yolks of 4 eggs. Mode.—Rub the rind of the lemon on to some lumps of sugar; squeeze out the juice, and strain it; put the butter and flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire, and when of a pale brown, add the wine, water, and strained lemon-juice. Crush the lumps of sugar that were rubbed on the lemon ; stir these into the sauce, which should be very sweet. When these ingredients are well mixed, and the sugar is melted, put in the beaten yolks of four eggs ; keep stirring the sauce until it thickens, when serve. Do not, on any account, allow it to boil, or it will curdle, and be entirely spoiled. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average Cost, 9 d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time.