754 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Haricot Beans.—This is the haricot blanc of the French, and is a Native of India. It ripens readily, in dry summers, in most parts of Britain, but Us culture has hitherto been confined to gardens in England; but in Germany and Switzerland it is grown infields. It is usually harvested by pulling up the plants, which, being dried, are stacked and threshed. The haulm is both of little bulk and little use, but the seed is used in making the esteemed Frem h dish called haricot, with which it were well if the working classes of this country were acquainted. There is, perhaps, no other vegetable dish so cheap and easily cooked, and at the same time so agreeable and nourishing. 1 he beans are boiled, and then mixed with a little fat or salt butter, and a little milk or water and Hour. From 3,840 parts of kidney-bean, Einhoff obtained 1,805 parts of matter analogous to starch, 351 of vegeto-animal matter, and 799 parts ot mucilage. 1578.-HARICOT BEANS AND MINCED ONIONS. (Fr.—Haricot a la Lyonnaise.) Ingredients.—i quart of white haricot beans, 4 middle-sized onions, \ pint of good brown gravy, pepper and salt to taste, a little flour. Mode.—peel and mince the onions not too finely, and fry them in butter of a light brown colour, dredge over them a little flour, and add the gravy and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Have ready a pint of haricot beans well boiled and drained ; put them with the onions and gravy, mix all well together and serve very hot. Time.—From 2 to 2-^ hours to boil the beans; 5 minutes to fry the onions. Average Cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1579— HERB PANCAKES. (Fr.—Crepes aux Fines Herbes.) Ingredients.—Any green herbs, such as parsley, chives, thyme, spinach, &c., 2 oz. of butter, minced ham or bacon, stock ; fried pancakes. Mode.—Chop the herbs finely, then put them into the stewpan with the butter, and stew them till tender. Keep them moist, then mix the ham or bacon with them ; put a thin layer of mince over each pancake and roll them up. Put them closely side by side in a stewpan, add just enough stock to keep them from burning, cover closely and steam thirty minutes. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the pancakes, Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable all the year. 1580.—HORSERADISH. (Fr.—Raifort.) Mode.—This root, scraped, is always served with hot roast beef, and is used for garnishing many kinds of boiled fish. Let the horseradish