Common Complaints. 1601 3622. Carbuncle.—Apply belladonna, as recommended in the treatment of boils, or paint collodion over the swelling. 3623. Chapped Hands.—Rub them with lanoline or glycerine at bed- lime, and put gloves on. 3624. Chilblains.—Paint them with tincture of iodine, or apply camphor ointment to them. 3625. Cold in the Head.—Pour some of the alcoholic solution of camphor into boiling water, and inhale by the nose, taking at the same time four or six drops on sugar, and repeating in half an hour if necessary. 3626. Colic.—Give for an adult a tablespoonful of castor oil along with twenty drops of laudanum. Apply a mustard leaf or poultice, or a turpentine stupe to the abdomen. 3627. Constipation.—Encourage regular habits. Take a glass of cold water first thing in the morning. Eat ripe fruit, such as prunes and figs, oat- meal porridge, brown bread. If medicine is required, give a wineglassful of Friedrichshalle water in the morning, or a teaspoonful of the compound liquorice powder. 3628. Convulsions.— Apply cold to the head, put the feet in mustard and water, and give a teaspoonful of the following mixture to a child two years old :—Bromide of potassium, two drachms; syrup of orange-peel, four drachms; water sufficient to make four ounces: repeat every three hours. A warm bath or a pack may be employed with advantage. 3629. Croup.—Give emetics of ipecacuanha wine—a teaspoonful in water followed by drinks of tepid water may be given to a child every fifteen minutes till vomiting is brought about. Give a warm bath. Steam the room, and apply a sponge wrung out of warm water to the throat. 3630. Diarrhoea.—Regulate the diet if it appears to be at fault. Give lime water and milk, one tablespoonful of the former to three of the latter, or ,a like proportion, in the case of children ; arrowroot, rice, &c., may also be given. Small doses of laudanum may be given to adults if there is pain, say ten or fifteen drops with an equal quantity of spirit of chloroform. Bismuth is useful, and may be given in doses of fi ve to ten grains three times a day to adults. 3631. Diphtheria.—Steam the room. Slake a lump of lime in the roomy and get the patient to inhale the fumes. Spray the throat with lime water, or' blow some flowers of sulphur through a clay pipe into the throat. Give steel' drops and chlorate of potassium with glycerine: five drops, two grains and tern drops of each every twc hours to a child six or eight years old. 3632. Dyspepsia.—Give powders of bismuth and soda : ten grains of the subnitrate of bismuth and the same of bicarbonate of soda twice or thrice a day, A teaspoonful of Benger’s Liquor Pancreaticus may be taken with advantage ani hour or two after each meal : it will materially assist digestion. The diet should! be carefully regulated, and all indigestible articles of food avoided. 3633. Epilepsy.—Give bromide of sodium in twenty-grain doses in water twice or three times a day. -• 3634. Erysipelas.—Give fifteen to twenty drops of the tincture of the' percloride of iron (steel drops) along with a similar quantity of glycerine in half a wineglassful of water every four hours.