1244 Recipes for Invalid Cookery. whatever they are made of is finely divided. The following recipe is given by Dr. F. V. Pavy: Take the white part , of the breast and wings freed from skin, of either roasted or boiled chicken, or the under side of cold sirloin of roasted beef; or cold roasted leg of mutton, and pound in a mortar with an equal quantity of stale bread. Add either the water in which the chicken has been boiled, or beef tea, until the whole forms a fluid paste, and then boil for io minutes, stirring all the time. 2808.—PANADA. {Another Mode.) Take of pearl barley or rice 2 oz., wash and put it in a saucepan with half a pound of veal or mutton cut in small pieces, and half a pint of water. Simmer it all very gently for 2 hours, or set it in the oven all night. Then pound it in a mortar and rub it through a fine sieve. Add a little cream to make it as thin as desired, with seasoning to taste, and serve it hot or cold ; or to the meat and barley pounded add a handful of breadcrumbs and the yolk of 1 or 2 eggs. Poach it in dessertspoonfuls and serve with any vegetable and a little milk sauce. 2809. -STEWED RABBITS IN MILK. Ingredients.—2 very young rabbits, not nearly half grown; i| pint of milk, 1 blade of mace, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a little salt and cayenne. Mode.—Mix the flour very smoothly with 4 tablespoonfuls of the milk, and when this is well mixed, add the remainder. Cut up the rabbits into joints, put them into a stewpan, with the milk and other ingredients, and simmer them very gently until quite tender. Stir the contents from time to time, to keep the milk smooth and prevent it from burning. Half an hour will be sufficient for the cooking of this dish. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, from is. to is. 6d. each. Sufficient for 3 or 4 meals. Seasonable from September to February. 2810. -RICE MILK FOR INVALIDS. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of rice, 1 quart of milk, sugar to taste ; when liked, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Well wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the milk, and simmer gently until the rice is tender, stirring it from time to time to prevent the milk from burning; sweeten it, add a little grated nutmeg, and serve. This dish is also very suitable and wholesome for children; it may be flavoured with a little lemon-peel, and a little finely-minced suet may tte boiled with it, which renders it more strengthening and more