1033 Pickled Onions. Mode.—Have the onions gathered when quite dry and ripe, and, with the fingers, take off the thin outside skin: then with a silver knife (steel should not be used, as it spoils the colour of the onions), remove one more skin, when the onion will look quite clear. Have ready some very dry bottles or jars, and as fast as they are peeled, put them in. Pour over sufficient cold vinegar to cover them, with pepper and allspice in the above proportions, taking care that each jar has its share of the latter ingredients. Tie down with bladder, and put them in a dry place, and in a fortnight they will be fit for use. This is a most simple recipe and very delicious, the onions being nice and crisp. They should be eaten within 6 or 8 mouths after being done, as the onions are liable to become soft. Seasonable from the middle of July to the end of August. 2237.—SPANISH ONIONS—PICKLED. (£>.—Oignons Marines.) Ingredients.—Onions, vinegar; salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the onions in thin slices ; put a layer of them in the bot- tom of a jar ; sprinkle with salt and cayenne ; then add another layer of enions and season as before, proceeding in this manner till the jar is full. Pour In sufficient vinegar to cover the whole, and the pickle will be fit for dse in a month. Seasonable.—May be had in England from September to February, 2238.-PICKLED OYSTERS. Ingredients.—100 oysters; to each £ pint of vinegar, 1 blade of pohnded mace, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 12 black peppercorns. Mode.—Get the oysters in good condition, open them, place them in a saucepan, and let them simmer in their own liquor for about 10 minutes, very gently ; then take them out, one by one, and place them in a jar, and cover them, when cold, with a pickle made as follows :—Measure the Oyster-liquor ; add to it the same quantity of vinegar, with mace, lemon- peel, and pepper in the above proportion, and boil it for 5 minutes ; when cold, pour over the oysters, and tie them down very closely, as contact with the air spoils them. Seasonable from September to April. Note.—Put this pickle away in small jars; because directly one is opened, its contents should be immediately eaten, as they soon spoil. The pickle should not be kept more than 2 or 3 months. 2239.—PICKLED TOMATOES AND ONIONS. Ingredients.“i doz. ripe tomatoes, their weight in onions, 1 quart of Vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, 3 oz. of black pepper.