Spanish Sauce. 351 from the fire. Strain through a cloth and put by for use. This will make 4 quarts of sauce. It will keep good for 3 or 4 days, so that, where it is much used, it will be better for the mistress to direct that a fair quantity be prepared, to save time. Time.—5 hours. Seasonable at any time. 776.—SPANISH SAUCE WITHOUT MEAT. (Fr.—Sauce Espagnole Maigre.) Ingredients.—3 onions, 2 carrots, 6 lbs. of gurnet, pike and whiting, t pint of white wine, 5 quarts of fish consomme, No. 280, 3J lbs. of clarified butter, $ lb. of flour, J oz. of salt, mignonette pepper. Mode.—Grease a stewpan with butter and put in the onions sliced, then lay the fish, cut in pieces, on top and add the wine. Boil all to a glaze, then pour in the fish consomme, add the carrots, salt, and pepper. Put the butter and flour into a stewpan, moisten with a little of the liquor and stir constantly till it boils, then add it to the other, and let it stand by the side of the fire to clear. Strain through a cloth and put by. Time.—2 to 3 hours. 777-BROWN SPANISH SAUCE. (Fr.—Espagnole.) Ingredients.—2 slices of lean ham, 1 lb. of veal, 1^ pint of meat stock, No. 273 ; 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, ^ a bay-leaf, 2 or 3 sprigs of savoury herbs, 6 green onions, 3 shalots, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 glasses of sherry or madeira, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Cut up the ham and veal into small square pieces, and put them into a stewpan. Moisten these with half a pint of the stock, No. 273, and simmer till the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a nicely- coloured glaze, when put in a few more spoonfuls to detach it. Add the remainder of the stock, with the spices, herbs, shalots and onions, and simmer very gently for 1 hour. Strain and skim off every particle of fat; and, when required for use, thicken with butter and flour, or with a little roux. Add the wine, and, if necessary, a seasoning of cayenne; when it will be ready to serve. Time.—i^-hour. Average Cost, 2s. per pint. Note.—The wine in this sauce may be omitted, and an onion sliced and fried of a nice brown substituted for it. This sauce or gravy is used for many dishes, *nd with most people is a general favourite. r?