Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 6o8 them; thus, the Bow-Bill Duck, as shown in the engraving, called by some writers the Hook- Bill, is remarkable for the peculiarly strange distortion of its beak, and the tuft on the top of its head. The Penguin Duck, again, waddles in an upright position, like the Penguin, on account of an unnatural situation of its legs. These odd peculiarities add nothing of value to the various breeds, and may be set down as only the result of accidental malformation, transmitted from generation to generation. 1294.-STEWED DUCK AND TURNIPS. (Fr —Canard aux Navets.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast duck, £ pint of good gravy, 4 shalots, a few slices of carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, z blade of pounded mace, 1 lb. of turnips, weighed after being peeled, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut up the duck into joints, fry the shalots, carrots and herbs, and put them, with the duck, into the gravy; add the pounded mace, and stew gently for 20 minutes or half an hour. Cut about 1 lb. of turnips, weighed after being peeled, into half-inch squares, parboil them, put the butter into a stewpan, and stew them till quite tender, which will be in about half an hour, or rather more ; season with pepper and salt, and serve in the centre of the dish, with the duck, &c., laid round. Time.—Rather more than half an hour to stew the turnips. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold duck, 8 d. Seasonable from September to January. The Wild. Duck—In many parts of England the wild duck is to be found, especially in those desolate fenny parts where water abounds. In Lincolnshire they are plentiful, and are annually taken in the decoys, which consist of ponds situate in the marshes, and surrounded with wood or reeds to prevent the birds which frequent them from being disturbed. In these the birds sleep during the day; and as soon as evening sets in, the decoy rises, and the wild fowl feed during the night. Now is the time for the decoy ducks to entrap the others. From the ponds diverge, in different directions,certain canals,at the end of which funnel nets are placed ; along these the decoy ducks, trained for the purpose, lead the others in search of food. After they have got a certain length, a decoy-man appears, and drives them further on, until they are finally taken in the nets. It is from these decoys, in Lincolnshire that the London Market is mostly supplied. The Chinese have a singular mode of catching these ducks. A person wades in the water up to the chin, and, having his head rpvered with an empty calabash, approaches the place Where the ducks are. As the birds have no suspicion of the nature of the object which is concealed under the calabash, they suffer its approach, and allow it to move at will among their flock. The man, accordingly, walks about in the midst of his game, and whenever he pleases, pulls them by the legs under the water, and fixes them to his belt, until he has secured as many as he requires, and then moves off as he went amongst them, without exciting the slight suspicion of the trick he has been playing them. This singular mode of duck-hunting is also practised on the Ganges, the earthen vessels of the Hindoos being used instead of calabashes. These vessels, being those in which the inhabitants boil their rice, are considered, after once being used, as defiled, and are accordingly thrown into the river. The duck-takers, finding them suitable for their purpose, put them on their heads; and as the ducks, from seeing them constantly floating down the stream, are familiar with their appearance, they regard them as objects from which no danger is to be expected. CALL DUCKS. Duck-snares in the Lincolnshire Fens.—The following interesting account of how duck- snaring used to be managed in the Lincolnshire fens was pubhshed some years ago, in a work entitled the “Feathered Tribes.’’—“In the lakes to which they resorted, their favourite haunts were