SUwed Onions. 76t 1593. STEWED SPANISH ONIONS. {Fr.—Oignons au Jus.) Ingredients.—5 or 6 Spanish onions, 1 pint of good broth or gravy. Mode.—Peel the onions, taking care not to cut away too much of the tops or tails, or they would then fall to pieces ; put them into a stewpan capable of holding them at the bottom without piling them one on the top of another; add the broth or gravy, and simmer very gently until the onions are perfectly tender. Dish them, pour the gravy round, and serve. Instead of using broth, Spanish onions may be stewed with a large piece of butter; they most be done very gradually over a slow fire or hot plate, and will produce plenty of gravy. Time.—To stew in gravy, 2 hours, or longer if very large. Average Cost, medium-sized, id. to 2d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from September to January. Note.—Stewed Spanish onions are a favourite accompaniment to roast shoulder of mutton. Origin of the Onion.—This vegetable is thought to have originally come from India, through Egypt, where it became an object of worship. Thence it was transmitted to Greece, thence to Italy, and ultimately it was distiibuted throughout Europe, in almost every part of which it has, from time immemorial, been cultivated. In warm climates it is found to be less acrid and much sweeter than in colder latitudes ; and in Spain it is not at all unusual to see a peasant munching an onion, as an Englishman would an apple. Spanish onions which are imported to this country during the winter months, are, when properly roasted, perfectly sweet and equal to many preserves. 1594. SCALLOPED OYSTER PLANT. {Fr.—Salsifis.) Ingredients.—1^ lb. of stewed plant, 3 oz. of butter, £ gill of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Mode.—When the oyster plant is boiled tender, rub it through a colander: add part of the butter and all the other ingredients. Mix well, put in a baking dish, cover the top with grated bread-crumbs and the rest of the butter. Bake it a delicate brown, and serve hot. Time.—15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in winter. Salsify (Fr.—Salsifi), or purple goat’s beard, is a plant indigenous to England, belonging to the same tribe as chicory and lettuce. It is less often eaten in England than on the Continent and in America, where it is known from its peculiar taste as the “oyster plant.” Tbe root is long and tapering, similar to the parsnip. 1595-—PARSNIP BALLS. {Fr.—Croquettes de Panais.) Ingredients.—6 large parsnips, 2 eggs, a little flour and salt, lard to fry. Mode.—Parboil the parsnips and let them get thoroughly cold: peel