Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 189 is longer, and £ pint of water will be wanted to cause the scum to rise freely. Time.—Simmer gently 5 hours. Average Cost, is. 3^. per quart. Seasonable at any time. 386. —ANOTHER POT AU FEU. Ingredients.—4 lb. of shin of beel, 3 oz. of sago, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, 3 leeks, 4- parsnip, £ head of celery, a bunch of herbs, 2 or 3 sprigs ol parsley, 1 onion stuck with 3 cloves, 1 cabbage, 1 oz. of salt. Mode.—Tie the meat into shape with string, put it into a saucepan, and pour over it 5 quarts of cold water; carefully take off all the scum, then add the salt; allow this to simmer gently for 2 hours. Prepare the vegetables, and add them to the soup ; allow this to simmer another 2 hours, then wash the cabbage, tie it in shape with string, put it into the boiling stock and cook until tender. After this time dish the meat and garnish it with the vegetables ; with a little gravy round. Take the string from the cabbage, ancj serve on hot vegetable dish. Sprinkle the sago into the soup, and cook until transparent, and serve in a tureen. Time.—6 hours. Average Cost, 3s. Seasonable any time. Sufficient for 15 persons. 387. -A GOOD FAMILY SOUP. Ingredients.—Remains of a cold tongue, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, any cold pieces of meat or beef-bones, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 parsnip, 1 head of celery, 4 quarts of water, | teacupful of rice, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Put all the ingredients in a stewpan, and simmer gently for 4 hours, or until all the goodness is drawn from the meat. Strain off the soup, and let it stand to get cold. The kernels and soft parts of the tongue must be saved. When the soup is wanted for use, skim off all the fat, put in the kernels and soft parts of the tongue, slice in a small quantity of fresh carrot, turnip, and onion; stew till the vegetables are tender, and serve with toasted br^ad. Time.—5 hours. Average Cost, 4d. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 12 persons. 388.—USEFUL SOUP FOR BENEVOLENT PURPOSES. Ingredients.—\ a bullock’s head, any pot-liquor the larder may furnish, £ peck of onions, 6 leeks, a large bunch of herbs, 2 heads of celery (the outside pieces, or gree» tops, do very well); 3 carrots. 4 lbs. ol