554 Recipes for Cooking Pork. end of the row; then make another line, half an inch distant, stick in another row of lardoons, bringing them out at the second line, leaving the ends of the bacon out all the same length; make the next row again at the same distance, bringing the ends out between the lardoons of the first row, proceeding in this manner until the whole surface is larded in chequered rows. Everything else is larded in a similar way; and, in the case of poultry, hold the breast over a charcoal fire for one minute, or dip it into boiling water, in order to make the flesh firm.” 1210.—ROAST LOIN OF PORK. (Fr,— Longe de Pore.) Ingredients.—Pork ; a little salt. Mode.—Score the skin in strips rather more than a quarter of an inch apart, and place the joint at a good distance from the fire, on account of the crackling, which would harden before the meat would be heated through, were it placed too near. If very lean, it should be rubbed over with a little salad oil, and kept well basted all the time it is at the fire. FORE LOIN OF PORK. HIND LOIN OF PORK. Pork should be very thoroughly cooked, but not dry; and be careful never to send it to tahle the least underdone, as nothing is more unwhole- some and disagreeable than underdressed white meats. Serve with apple sauce and a little brown gravy made in the dripping-pan. A stuffing of sage and onion may be made separately, and baked in a flat dish ; this method is bettter than putting it in the meat, as many persons have so great an objection to the flavour. Time.—A loin of pork weighing 5 lbs., about 2 hours ; allow more time should it be very fat. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to March. Fossil Remains of the Hog.—In British strata, the oldest fossil remains of the hog which Professor Owen states that he has examined, were from fissures in the red crag (probably miocene) of Newbourne, near Woodbridge, Suffolk. “They were associated with teeth of an extinct felis about the size of a leopard, with those of a bear, and with remains of a large cervus. These mammalian remains were found with the ordinary fossils of the red crag; they had undergone the same process of trituration, and were impregnated with the same colouring matter as the associated bones and teeth of fishes acknowledged to be derived from the regular strata of the red crag. These mammaliferous beds have been proved by Mr. Lyell to be older than the fluvio- marine or Norwich crag, in which remains of the mastodon, rhinoceros and horse have been dis- covered ; and still older than the fresh-water pleistocene deposits, from which the remains of the mammoth, rhinoceros, &c., are obtained in such abundance. I have met,” says the professor, in addition, “ with some satisfactory instances of the association of fossil remains of a species of hog with those of the mammoth, in the newer pleiocerje fresh water formations of Englapd/’