Vegetable Soups. 145 291.—BROAD BEAN SOUP. (Fr.—Puree de Feves.) Ingredients.—1 qt. beans, shelled; £ lb. bacon, a little spinach green- ing, 3 oz. fresh butter, a small bunch of herbs, a dessert spoonful or flour, pepper and salt, and a pinch of castor sugar, 3 quarts of stock No. 274. Mode.—Skin the beans and boil them with the bacon and herbs in plenty of salted water till thoroughly done ; then drain off the water and pass the beans through a hair sieve. Mix an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan (not an iron one) with a dessert-spoonful of flour ; add the bean pulp and common stock, the seasoning, and enough greening to give the soup a good colour, let it come to the boil and add the remainder of the butter at the time of serving Serve with dice of fried bread. Time.—| an hour to cook the beans. Average Cost, 8d. per quart. Seasonable from June to August. 292.—POTAGE A LA BONNE FEMME. Ingredients.—1 onion, £ a cucumber, 1 lettuce, a handful of sorrel, 2 sprigs of chervil, 12 of tarragon, 1 oz. of butter, a small teaspoonful of sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill of cream or new milk, pints of white stock, a French roll, salt, nutmeg. Mode.—Shred the vegetables very finely, put the chopped onion in a pan with the butter, but do not let it brown; add the vegetables, and stir them over a slow fire for ten minutes. Put in the spice and sugar, the stock boiling, and boil for another ten minutes. The vegetables should not be cooked to a mash. When cool add the yolks and the cream. Cut the roll in thin slices or fingers, leaving the crust on. Dry them in a slow oven, and serve in the soup. Fried bread maybe substituted. Time.—Half an hour. Average Cost, 2s. Seasonable in early summer. 293.—BREAD SOUP. (Fr.—Soupe au Pain.) (Economical.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of bread crusts, 1 oz. butter, 2 qts. of common stock, No. 274. Mode.—Boil the bread-crusts in the stock with the butter ; beat the whole with a spoon, and keep it boiling till the bread and stock are well mixed. Season with a little salt. Time.—Half an hour. Average Cost, 7d. per quart Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 or 9 persons. Note.—This is a cheap recipe, and will be found useful where extreme economy is an object. 1 Bread.—The origin of bread is involved in the obscurity of distant ages. The Greeks attributed Its invention to Pan • but before they themselves had an existence, it was, no doubt, in use among