764 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Time.—Altogether, f hour. Average Cost, 6d. per peck, when cheapest. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Varieties of the Pea.—The varieties of the pea are numerous ; but they may be divided into two classes—those grown for the ripened seed, and those grown for gathering in a green state. The culture of the latter is chiefly confined to the neighbourhoods ot large towns, and may be considered as in part rather to belong to the operations of the gardener than to those of the agriculturist. The grey varieties are the early grey, the late grey and the purple grey; to which some add the Marlborough grey and the horn grey. The white varieties grown in fields are the pearl, early Charlton, golden hotspur, the common white, or Suffolk, and other Suffolk varieties. 1599.—STEWED GREEN PEAS. (Fr.—Petits Pois a la Frangaise.) Ingredients.— 1 quart of peas, 1 lettuce, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, 1 egg, ^ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Shell the peas, and cut the onions and lettuces into slices; put these into a stewpan with the butter, pepper and salt, but with no more water than that which hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew the whole very gently for rather more than one hour ; then stir to it a well-beaten egg, and about half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar. When the peas, &c., are nicely thickened, serve; but, after the egg is added, do not allow them to boil. Time.—ij hour. Average Cost, 6d. per peck when in full season. Seasonable from June to the end of August. The Sweet pea and the Heath or 'Wood-pea.—The well-known sweet-pea forms a fine covering to a trellis, or lattice-work in a flower-garden. Its gay and fragrant flowers, with its rambling habits, render it peculiarly adapted for such purpose. The wood-pea, or heath-pea, is found in the heaths of Scotland, and the Highlanders of that country are extremely partial to them, and dry and chew them to give a greater re-lish to their whiskey. They also regard them as good against chest complaints, and say that by the use of them they are enabled to withstand hunger and thirst for a long time. The peas have a sweet taste, somewhat like the root of liquorice, and when boiled have an agreeable flavour, and are nutritive. In times of scarcity they have served as an article of food. When well boiled, a fork will pass through them; ana slightly dried, they are roasted, and in Holland and Flanders served up like chestnuts. 1600.-PEASE PUDDING. Ingredients.—i^pint of split peas, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Put the peas to soak over-night, in rain-water, and float off