Puddings of the Ancients, 7yj Lacedaemonians, of the Athenian gladiators and common people, was the same, with the exception of the slight seasoning it had beyond the simplicity of Scottish fare. Here is the ancient recipe for the Athenian national dish :— " Dry near the fire, in the oven, twenty pounds of barley-flour; then parch it ; add three pounds of linseed-meal, half a pound of coriander-seed, two ounces of salt, and the quantity of water necessary.” To this sometimes a little millet was added, in order to give the paste greater cohesion and delicacy. 1654. Oatmeal amongst the Greeks and Romans was highly esteemed, as was also rice, which they considered beneficial to the chest. They also held in high repute the Irion, or Indian wheat of the moderns. The flour of this cereal was made into a kind of hasty pudding, and, parched or roasted, was eaten with a little salt. The Spelt, or Red wheat, was likewise esteemed, and its flour formed the basis of the Carthaginian pudding, for which we here give the recipe :—“ Put a pound of red-wheat flour into water, and when it has steeped some time, transfer it to a wooden bowl. Add three pound" of cream cheese, half a pound of honey, and one egg. Beat the whole toge'hei, and cook it on a slow fire in a stewpan. ” Should this be considered unpalatable, another form has been recommended. “ Sift the flour, and, with some water, put it into a wooden vessel, and, for ten days, renew the water twice each day. At the end of that period, press out the water, and place the paste in another vessel. It is now to be reduced to the consistence of thick lees, and passed through a piece of new linen. Repeat this last operation, then dry the mass in the sun and boil it in milk. Season according to taste.” These are specimens of the puddings of antiquity, and this last recipe was held in especial favour by the Romans. 1655. However great may have been the qualifications of the ancients in the art of pudding-making, we apprehend that such preparations as gave gratification to their palates would have generally found little favour amongst the insulated inhabitants of Great Britain. Here, from the simplest suet-dumpling up to the most complicated Christmas production, the grand feature of substantiality is primarily attended to. Variety in the. ingredients, we think, is held only of secondary consideration with the great body of the people, provided that the whole is agreeable and of sufficient abundance. Although from puddings to pastry is but a step, it requires a higher degree of art to make the one than to make the other. Indeed, pastry is one of the most important branches of the culinary science. It unceasingly occupies itself with ministering pleasure to the sight as well as to the taste; with erecting graceful monuments, miniature fortresses, and all kinds of architectural imitations, composed of the sweetest and most agreeable products of all climates and countries. At a very early period, the Orientals were acquainted with the art of manipulating in pastry ; but they by no means attained to the taste, variety, and splendour of design by which it is characterised amongst the moderns. At first, it generally consisted of certain mixtures of flour, oil and honey, to which it was confined for centuries, even among the southern nations of the European continent. At the commencement of the middle ages, a change began to take place in the art of mixing it. Eggs, butter and salt came into repute in the making of paste, which was forthwith used as an enclosure for meat, seasoned with spices. This advance attained, the next step was to enclose cream, fruits and marmalades ; asd the next to build pyramids and castles, when the summit of the art of the pastry- cook may be supposed to have been achieved. 1656. Modem luxuries.—It is, however, very certain that puddings as we know them are modern inventions, for sugar and spices were rare and costly luxuries in the middle ages, spices being brought by Italian merchants from the East, and sugar coming from South Eastern Europe by the same precarious and