Typhus Fever. 15 77 cause the gases to regurgitate into the house; that just beneath the pan of the water-closet the waste-pipe should communicate with the open air and be carried up above the house-top ; that a cistern with a continuous supply of water should be supplied close to and above each water-closet, and that the cistern for the drinking water should be quite distinct from the other cisterns. In small places the dry earth system should be adopted, and care must be taken that no leakage from an old cesspool can escape into the well for drinking purposes. Symptoms.—The onset of typhoid fever is always very gradual and insidious ; it begins with feeling out of sorts, aching pains in the limbs, headache, loss, of appetite and chilliness ; for many days the sufferer is able to go about and think there is not much the matter. Sometimes there is diarrhoea; then the pulse is quicker, the skin hot, and the tongue red and dry. At the end of the first week or later he is feverish, has no appetite, is thirsty and the bowels are generally relaxed. The urine is scanty and high-coloured ; there is still more restlessness at night. Between the seventh and twelfth day an eruption, consisting of a few slightly-raised, rose-coloured spots, makes its appearance. These disappear in two or three days, but fresh crops come in their place. Pain may be experienced and gurgling felt on pressing over the right side of the abdomen. About the middle of the second week delirium comes on. The tongue is dry, red and glazed, and often cracked. As the disease advances the patient loses flesh and strength ; he lies prostrate and perhaps unconscious of what is going on around, and if it end fatally, he will become quite insensible, have a high temperature and fumble at the bedclothes. If the disease progress favourably, the amendment is very gradual. Complications.—Diarrhoea may be profuse and exhaust the patient. Bleeding from the nose may occur, but is not often a bad symptom. Perforation of the bowel may occur from an error in diet; it is attended by collapse, and is very fatal. Inflammation of the peritoneum adds greatly to the danger. Bronchitis and pneumonia may supervene and increase the mischief. Treatment.—Place the patient in a well-ventilated room. Remove all curtains, carpets, and bed-hangings. Prevent exertion on the part of the patient. The greatest cleanliness must be observed, and all excreta removed at once, Condy's fluid, carbolic acid, sanitas, or chloride of lime being mixed with them. The diarrhoea need not be checked unless the motions are very frequent, and then a little starch injection may be given. The diet must be very light, and no solid food should be taken under six weeks or two months, because, in consequence of the ulceration of the bowels, the coats are very thin and liable to burst. Abso- lutely nothing should be given to the patient beyond what has been ordered by the medical attendant. Milk must form the main article of diet, and then an egg or two may be beaten up in it, or a custard may be given, and beef-tea. If there is much distension of the bowels, hot flannels sprinkled with turpentine will be useful. 3542. Typhus Fever.—This is a highly contagious fever (attacking people of all ages) which occurs in an epidemic form, and generally in periods of famine and destitution. Causes.—In the individual, sex and age have no influence in determining an attack. Nearly equal numbers of both sexes catch it, and children, as well as adults and old people are liable to it. Depressing mental influences, over-work, and anxiety render the system more liable to contagion ; those who are badly fed, and those who suffer from loss of a harvest; people who have suffered the hardships of war, of civil strifes, and commercial distress, are often its chief victims. Overcrowding, dirt, and bad ventilation, are important predisposing causes to this affection. The chief cause of typhus is contagion; the othei causes only render the system more liable to the action of the poison