894 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 1910.—LEMON TARTS. (Ft.—Tartelettes au Citron.) Ingredients.—4 lemons, 4 oz. of blanched almonds, 4 0z. of lump sugar. Mode.—Pare the lemons thickly and boil the rinds in two waters till tender, then beat them fine. Cut the almonds in thin slices, add them, the sugar, lemon-juice and some grated peel, and simmer till a thick syrup is obtained. Line shallow tart-dishes with thin, rich, puff-paste, pour in the syrup, and put strips of paste across. Bake in a moderate oven. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 2 tarts. Seasonable at any time. 1911.—PASTRY SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—Puff-paste, jam of any kind, the white of an egg, sifted sugar. Mode.—Roll the paste out thin ; put half of it on a baking-sheet or tin, and spread equally over it apricot, greengage, or any preserve that may be preferred. Lay over this preserve another thin paste : press the edges together all round, and mark the paste in lines with a knife on the surface, to show where to cut it when baked. Bake from 20 minutes to half an hour; and, a short time before being done, take the pastry out of the oven, brush it over with the white of an egg. sift over pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to colour. When cold, cut it into strips ; pile these on a dish pyramidically, and serve. These strips, cut about 2 inches long, piled in circular rows, and a plateful of flavoured whipped cream poured in the middle, make a very pretty dish. Time.—20 minutes to i hour. Average Cost, with ± lb. of paste, is. Sufficient.—i lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of sandwiches. Seasonable at any time. i9i2.~POLISH TARTLETS. Ingredients.—Puff-paste, the white of an egg, pounded sugar. Mode.—Roll some good puff-paste out thin, and cut it into two-and-a- half-inch squares: brush each square over with the white of an egg, then fold down the corners, so that they all meet in the middle of each piece of paste; slightly press the two pieces together, brush them over with the egg, sift over sugar, and bake in a nice quick oven for about a quarter of an hour, When they are done, make a little hole in the middle of the paste and fill it up with apricot jam, marmalade, or red-currant jelly. Pile them high in the centre of a dish, on a napkin, and garnish with the same preserve the tartlets are filled with.