356 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Mode.—Beat the eggs, sweeten the milk ; stir these ingredients well together, and flavour them with essence of vanilla, regulating the propor- tion of this latter ingredient by the strength of the essence, the size of the eggs, &c. Put the mixture into a small jug, place this jug in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and stir the sauce one way until it thickens ; but do not allow it to boil, or it will instantly curdle. Serve in a boat or tureen separately, with plum, bread, or any kind of dry pudding. Essence of bitter almonds or lemon-rind may be substituted for the vanilla, when they are more in accordance with the flavouring of the pudding with which the sauce is intended to be served. Time.—To be stirred in the jug from 8 to 10 minutes. Average Cost, 4 d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 790.-SAUCE FOR WILD FOWL. (Fr.—Sauce au Vin Rouge.) Ingredients.—1 glass of red wine, I tablespoonful of Leamington sauce, No. 722, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- juice, 1 slice of lemon-peel, 1 large shalot cut in slices, 1 blade of mace, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, set it over the fire, till thoroughly hot, then take out the lemon-peel and onion, and the sauce will be ready. Time.—15 minutes. Average Cost, (td. Sufficient for a brace of birds. 791.-W I N E SAUCE. (For Puddings. Excellent.) Ingredients.—The yolks of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of fresh butter, £ saltspoonful of salt, £ pint of sherry or madeira. Mode .—Put the butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the former thickens ; then add the sugar, salt and wine, and mix these ingredients well together. Separate the yolks from the whites of 4 eggs ; beat up the former, and stir them briskly to the sauce; let it remain over the fire until it is on the point of simmering; but do not allow it to boil, or it will instantly curdle. This sauce is delicious with plum, marrow or bread puddings ; but should be served separately, and not poured over the pudding.