1140 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes, 2532.—SODA CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 4 lb. of butter, £ lb. of sugar, | lb. of currants, 1 egg, a gill of new milk, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, mace and nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, cilrrants, and seasoning, beat the egg well, mix with the egg and milk, leaving a table- spoonful of the milk to mix the soda, which add just before putting into the oven. Bake in buttered moulds. Prick with a knitting needle; if this comes out clean, the cakes are done enough. A nice cake for tea, or an invalid. Time.—20 minutes or 4 hour. Average Cost, is. Seasonable at any time. 2533.—SODA CAKE. (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.—4 lb. of butter, I lb. of flour, 4 lb. of currants, l lb. of moist sugar, 1 teacupful of milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the currants and sugar, and mix these ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs well, stir them to the flour, &c., with the milk, in which the soda should be previously dissolved, and beat the whole up together with a wooden spoon or beater. Divide the dough into two pieces, put them into buttered moulds or cake-tins, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The mixture must be extremely well beaten up, and not allowed to stand after the soda is added to it, but must be placed in the oven immediately. Great care must also be taken that the cakes are quite done through, which may be ascertained by thrusting a knife into the middle of them : if the blade looks bright when withdrawn, they are done. If the tops acquire too much colour before the inside is sufficiently baked, cover them over with a piece of clean white paper, to prevent them from burning. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient to make 2 small cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2534.—SAVOY CAKE. Ingredients.—The weight of 4 eggs in pounded loaf sugar, the weight of 7 in flour, a little grated lemon-rind, or essence of almonds, or orange, flower-water.