1228 General Observations on Invalid Cookery. For a convalescent the food should be as varied as possible. In the mono- tonous existence of the sick-room small events appear great. For invalids, never make a large quantity of one thing, as they seldom require much at a time. Because a patient once likes a food do not repeat it till he is tired of its very name. If the food may not be varied, the mode of serving may. A stray flower, or a new patterned plate, is better than no variety at all. Let everything look as tempt- ing as possible. Have a clean tray-cloth laid smoothly over the tray ; let the spoons, tumblers, cups and saucers, &c., be very clean and bright. Gruel served in a tumbler is more appetising than when served in a basin or cup and saucer. Do not put a very little broth in the bottom of a very large basin. Let all the kitchen utensils used in the preparation of invalids’ cookery be delicately and scrupulously clean; if this is not the case, a disagreeable flavour may be imparted to the preparation, which flavour may disgust and prevent the patient from partaking of the refreshment when brought to him or her. Invalids notice flavours more than people in health do. It is generally oetter to cook in earthenware, glass or china, than in metal. In Miss Nightingale’s admirable “ Notes on Nursing,1’ a book that no mother or nurse should be without, she says : “ You cannot be too careful as to quality in sick diet. A nurse should never put before a patient milk that is sour, meat or soup that is turned, an egg that is bad, or vegetables underdone.” Yet often, she says, she has seen these things brought in to the sick, in a state perfectly perceptible to every nose or eye except the nurse's. It is here that the clever nurse appears—she will not bring in the peccant article ; but, not to disappoint the patient, she will whip up something else in a few minutes. Remember that sick cookery should half do the work of your poor patient’s weak digestion. She goes on to caution nurses, by saying : “ Take care not to spill into your patient's saucer; in other words, take care that the outside bottom rim of his cup shall be quite dry and clean. If, every time he lifts his cup to his lips, he has to carry the saucer with it, or else to drop the liquid upon and to soil his sheet, or bed- gown, or pillow, or, if he is sitting up, his dress, you have no idea what a difference this minute want of care on your part makes to his comfort, and even to his willingness for food.” Crumbs are great enemies to the patient’s comfort, and even with the greatest care they are difficult to keep out of the bed. Tuck a tablenapkin carefully rounc] the patient’s shoulders before each time of feeding. If a feeding cup is used, scald it carefully, and keep it quite clean. Warm it before using it for any hot food. Keep one for milk, and lay that in water. Have a separate cup for beef-tea and broth. No cooking may be done in the sick room. 2764. In acute disease the diet is often limited to milk and beef-tea. Inexperienced persons imagine that every liquid food is insufficient nourishment, and that the patient should be persuaded to take some solid. So far from this being true, milk is the best of all foods, the only food we could live on for a length of time without admixture of anything else. A patient who can take milk has at once a greater chance of prolonging life or recovering health. But there are some persons who cannot take milk, in health or sickness. They will often find it agrees with them better mixed with lime-water, a third or half of water to two-thirds or half of milk. Soda-water and milk is agreeable to some patients, and to some boiled milk is more digestible, especially boiled milk hot. Only in rare cases should the cream be removed. Whey has been found useful when every preparation of fresh milk has been tried in vain. Koumiss or fermented milk is al§0 spiel ip considerable quantities for the use of invalids.