1014 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. Time.—4 hour to simmer gently, \ hour to boil rapidly. Best Plums for Preserving.—Violets, Mussels, Orleans, Imperatrice, Magnum-Bonum, and Winesour. v Seasonable from the end of July to the beginning of October. Plums.—The Damson, or Damascene plum, takes it name from Damascus, where it grows in great quantities, and whence it was brought into Italy about 114 b.c. The Orleans plum is from France. The Greengage is called after the Gage family, who first brought it into England from the monastery of the Chartreuse, at Paris, where it still bears the name of Reine Claude. The Mignum-bouum is our largest plum, and greatly esteemed for preserves and culinary purposes. The best sort of plums are am-eeable at the dessert, and, when perfectly ripe, are wholesome ; but some are too astringent. They lose much of their bad qualities by baking, and are extensively used, from their cheapness, when in full season, in tarts and preserves, but they are not a very wholesome fruit, and should be eaten in moderation. 2194.—PRESERVED PLUMS. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow f lb. of loaf sugar; for the thin syrup, ^ lb. of sugar to each pint of water. Mode.—Select large ripe plums ; slightly prick them, to prevent them from bursting, and simmer them very gently in a syrup made with the above proportion of sugar and water. Put them carefully into a pan, let the syrup cool, pour it over the plums, and allow them to remain for two days. Having previously weighed the other sugar, dip the lumps quickly into water, and put them into a preserving-pan with no more water than hangs about them; and boil the sugar to a syrup, carefully skimming it. Drain the plums from the first syrup ; put them into the fresh syrup, and simmer them very gently until they are clear; lift them out singly into pots, pour the syrup over, and when cold, cover down to exclude the air. This preserve will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place, and makes a very nice addition to a dessert. The magnum-bonum plums answer for this preserve better than any other kind of plum. Green- gages are also very delicious done in this manner. Time.—J hour to 20 minutes to simmer the plums in the first syrup ; 20 minutes to £ hour very gently simmering in the second. Seasonable from August to October. 2195—TO PRESERVE PLUMS DRY. Ingredients.—To every lb. of sugar allow J pint of water. Mode.—Gather the plums when they are full-grown and just turning colour; prick them, put them into a saucepan of cold water, and set them on the fire until the water is on the point of boiling. Then take them out, drain them, and boil them gently in syrup made with the above proportion of sugar and water; and if the plums shrink and will not take the sugar, prick them as they lie in the pan; give them another boil, skim, and set them by. The next day add some more sugar, boiled almost to candy, to the fruit and syrup; put all together into a wide-