1334 General Observations on Dinners and Dining. or man of business, or of any dweller in towns whose occupations are exciting and exhausting, is jaded and requires stimulants, such as are to be found in good dinners, 3037. Elegant Dinners.—There are plenty of elegant dinners in modern days, and they were not wanting in ancient times. It is well known that the dinner-party, or symposium, was a not unimportant, and not unpoetical, feature in the life of the sociable, talkative, tasteful Greek. Douglas Jerrold said that such is the British humour for dining and giving of dinners, that if London were to be destroyed by an earthquake, the Londoners would meet at a public dinner to consider the subject. The Greeks, too, were great diners : their social and religious polity gave them many chances of being merry and making others merry on good eating and drinking. Any public or even domestic sacrifice to one of the gods, was sure to be followed by a dinner-party, the remains of the slaughtered “offering” being served up on the occasion as a pious piece de resistance; and as the different gods, goddesses and demigods, worshipped by the community in general, or by individuals, were very numerous indeed, and some very religious people never let a day pass without offering up something or other, the dinner-parties were countless. A birthday, too, was an excuse for a dinner ; a birthday, that is, of any person long dead and buried, as well as of a living person, being a member of the family, or otherwise esteemed. Dinners were, of course, eaten on all occasions of public rejoicing. Then, among the young people, subscription dinners, very much after the manner of modern times, were alwa\ s being got up; only that they would be eaten not at an hotel, but probably at the house of one of the he term. A Greek dinner-party was a handsome, well-regulated affair. The guests came in elegantly dressed and crowned with flowers. A slave approaching each person as he entered, took off his sandals and washed his feet. During the repast, the guests reclined on couches with pillows, among and along which were set small tables. After the solid meal came the “ symposium ” proper, a scene of music, merriment and dancing, the two latter being supplied chiefly by young girls. There was a chairman, or symposiarch, appointed by the company to regulate the diinking ; and it was his duty to mix the wine in the “ mighty bowl.” From this bowl the attendants ladled the liquor into goblets, and, with the goblets, went round and round the tables, filling the cups of the guests. 3038. In the Russian banquet, the table is extremely narrow, the ladies all walk in together and are followed by the gentlemen, who sit opposite them, the servants come and hand round every dish, the vegetables are served in separate compartments of a large round dish. When the dessert is handed round, the guests help themselves to all they are likely to require at once ; the dessert is replaced upon the table and not again touched. On retiring from table, the ladies again precede the gentlemen, and all take their departure at once, unless invited especially to spend the evening : a custom that might be followed with advantage at many reunions out of Russia. 3039. jL great gastronomist, from whom we have already quoted, has some aphorisms and short directions in relation to dinner-parties, which are well FLOWER VASE FOR DINNER TABLE.