1512 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants, for himself after the following recipe:—Take of ivory-black and treacle each 4 oz., sulphuric acid 1 oz., best olive oil two spoonfuls, best white- wine vinegar three half-pints: mix the ivory-black and treacle well in an earthen jar ; then add the sulphuric acid, continuing to stir the mixture ; next pour in the oil; and, lastly, add the vinegar, stirring it in by degrees, until thoroughly incorporated. 3358.—BOOT POLISH. (Another Recipe.) A good polish is made by mixing 1 oz. each of pounded galls and logwood- chips, and 3 lbs. of red French wine (ordinaire). Boil together till the liquid is reduced to half the quantity, and pour it off through a strainer. Now take £ lb. each of pounded gum-arabic and lump sugar, 1 oz. of green copperas and 3 oz. of brandy. Dissolve the gum-arabic in the preceding decoction, and add the sugar and copperas : when all is dissolved and mixed together, stir in the brandy, mixing it smoothly. This mixture will yield 5 or 6 lbs. of a very superior polishing paste for boots and shoes. 3359 -JAPAN BLACKING FOR BOOTS AND SHOES. Take 8 parts of treacle, 1 part lamp-black, 1 part sweet oil, 1 part gum-arabic, 1 part isinglass, 32 parts water, 1 oz. of spirits of wine, and a little ox-gall. Mix the treacle, lamp-black, sweet oil, gum and insin- glass in the water; set the pipkin over the fire to heat, stirring it well; add the spirits of wine and ox-gall, and as soon as possible bottle it. Warm the bottle before using the blacking, which must be put on with a sponge. 3360.—BLACKING. 1. Ivory-black, 12 oz.; olive-oil, 1 oz.; treacle, 8 oz.; gum-arabic in powder, £ oz.; vinegar, 2 quarts; sulphuric acid, oz. Mix the first four ingredients into a paste; then add gradually the vinegar, stirring the whole well together. Lastly add the sulphuric acid.—2. Ivory-black and brown sugar-candy, of each 2 oz.; sweet oil, 1 tablespoonful; add gradually 1 pint of cold vinegar, and stir the whole gently till incorporated. 3.—Ivory-black and treacle, of each £ lb.; sweet oil and oil ot vitriol, of each 1 oz. Rub the first three together until the oil is perfectly “ killed,” then gradually add the vitriol, diluted with three or four times its weight of water; mix well, and let it stand some hours (say three or four), when it may be reduced to a proper consistence with water or sour beer.—4. Gum-arabic, 8 oz.; treacle, 2 oz.; ink, £ pint ; vinegar and spirits of wine, of each 2 oz. Dissolve the gum and treacle in the ink and vinegar; then