64 7 Fricasseed Chicken. lumps, place it in a clean stewpan and let it simmer very gently until it is reduced to half the quantity, but it should simmer so slowly that it should be four hours in reducing thus. The following day fry the onions, tomatoes and garlic, all sliced, in the butter, then fry the limbs of the fowl of a dark brown colour. Place all the ingredients, except the lemon, in a stewpan with the reduced stock, and let it stew slowly for half-an- hour ; add the lemon-juice and serve. Time.—2 days altogether. Average Cost, 4s. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1348.—FRICASSEED FOWL OR CHICKEN. (Fr.—Fricassee de Poulet.) Ingredients.—2 small fowls or 1 large one, 3 oz. of butter, a bunch of parsley and green onions, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, 1 shalot, 1 bay-leaf, salt and white pepper to taste, $ pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Choose a couple of fat, plump chickens, and, after drawing, singeing and washing them, skin and carve them into joints; blanch these in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes; take them out, and immerse them in cold water to render them white. Put the trimmings, with the necks and legs, into a stewpan ; add the parsley, onions, clove, mace, shalot, bay-leaf, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour to these the water that the chickens were blanched in, and simmer gently for rather more than 1 hour. Have ready another stewpan ; put in the joints of fowl, with the above proportion of butter; dredge them with flour, let them get hot, but do not brown them much ; then moisten the fricassee with the gravy made from the trimmings, &c., and stew very gently for half-an-hour. Lift the fowl into another stewpan, skim the sauce, reduce it quickly over the fire, by letting it boil fast, and strain it over them. Add the cream, and a seasoning of pounded mace and cayenne ; let it boil up, and when ready to serve, stir to it the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs: these should not be put in till the last moment, and the sauce should be made hot, but must not boil, or it will instantly curdle. A few button mushrooms stewed with the fowl are by many persons considered an improvement. Time.— 1 hour to make the gravy, ^ hour to simmer the fowl- Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient.— 1 large fowl for 1 entree. Seasonable at any time. Stocking the Fowl-house.—Take care that the birds with which you stock your house are young. The surest indications of old age are fading of the comb and gills from brilliant red to a dingy brick colour, general paleness of plumage, brittleness of the feathers, length and size of the claws, and the scales of the legs and feet assuming a ragged and corny appearance. Your cock and hens should be as near two years old as possible. Hens will lay at a year old, but the eggs are always insignificant in size, and the layers giddy and unsteady sitters. The hen-bird is in her prime for breeding at three years old, and will continue so, under favourable circum-