The Natural History of Fishes. 200 409. —The Longevity of Fishes is said to surpass that of animals. The age of fishes has not been properly ascertained, although it is believed that the most minute of the species has a longer lease of life than man. The mode in which they die has been noted by the Rev. Mr. White, the eminent naturalist of Selborne. As soon as the fish sickens, the head sinks lower and lower, till the animal, as it were, stands upon it. After this, as it becomes weaker, it loses its poise, till the tail turns over, when it comes to the surface, and floats with its belly upwards. The reason for its floating in this manner is on account of the body being no longer balanced by the fins of the belly, and the broad muscular back preponderating, by its own gravity, over the belly, from this latter being a cavity, and consequently lighter. Fishes are either solitary or gregarious, and some of them migrate to great distances, and into certain rivers, to deposit their spawn. Of sea-fish, the cod, herring, mackerel, and many others, assemble in immense shoals, and migrate through different tracts of the ocean. FISH AS AN ARTICLE OF HUMAN FOOD. 410. The Supply of Fish in the Ocean may be considered as practically inexhaustible. In some places fish constitutes the chief or sole animal food of a people, and it is consumed more or less frequently in all countries. Yet many prejudices have existed with regard to its use. Among the Jews of old it was very little used, although it seems not to have been entirely interdicted, as Moses prohibited only the use of such as had neither scales nor fins. There seems some ground for the belief that the fish without scales are all apt to be unwhole- some, such as the lamprey, from a surfeit of which Henry I. died, the eel, the conger, the mackerel. The Egyptians made fish an article of diet, notwithstanding that it was rejected by their priests. Egypt, however, is not a country favourable to the production of fish, although we read of the people, when hungry, eating it raw ; of epicures among them having dried it in the sun ; and of its being salted and preserved, to serve as a repast on days of great solemnity. The modern Egyptians are, in general, extremely temperate in regard to food. Even the richest among them take little pride, and, perhaps, experience as little delight, in the luxu- ries of the table. Their dishes mostly consist of pilaus, soups and stews prepared princi- pally ol onions, cucumbers and other cold vegetables, mixed with a little meat cut into small pieces. On special occasions, however, a whole sheep is placed on the festive board ; but during several of the hottest months of the year, the richest restrict themselves entirely to a vegetable diet. The poor are contented with a little oil or sour milk, in which they may dip their bread. 411. —Fish as used by the Ancients.—Passing from Africa to Europe, we come amongst a people who have, almost from time immemorial, occupied a a high place in the estimation of every civilised country ; yet the Greeks, in their earlier ages, made very little use of fish as an article of diet. In the eyes of the heroes of Homer it had little favour; for Menelaus complained that “hunger pressed their digestive organs," and they had been obliged to live on fish. Subsequently, however, fish became one of the principal articles of diet amongst the Hellenes ; and both Aristophanes and Alhenaeus allude to it, and even satirize their countrymen for their excessive partiality to the turbot and mullet. So infatuated were many of the Greek gastronomes with the love of fish, that some of them would have preferred death from indigestion to the relinquishment of the precious dainties with which a few of the species supplied them. Philoxenes, of Cythera, was one of these. On being informed by his physician that he was going to die of indigestion, on account of the quantity he was consuming of a delicious fish, •' Be it so,” he calmly observed, “ but before I die, let me finish the remainder.” The Geographical situation of Greece, like that of the British Isles-, was highly favourable for the development of a taste for the piscatory tribes! and the skill of the Greek cooks was so great that they could impart any