1312 Breakfasts, Luncheons, Dinners, Teas and Suppers. to deal with it separately for each. A side-board should be an ornamental as well as useful piece of furniture, and may be as carefully and prettily laid out as the table itself. 2988.—TABLE NAPKINS OR “ SERVIETTES." The usual size of these indispensable accompaniments to the dinner-table is either a square, measuring from 28 to 30 inches; or 28 inches in breadth, by 30 inches in length, while breakfast ones are about 24 inches square. In ordi- nary family use they are sometimes folded smoothly and slipped through “napkin rings," made of bone, ivory or silver ; in fact, after first using this is generally the case, each member of the family having his or her own ring. But whilst this arrangement is most convenient for family use, those required for dinner-parties and other formal occasions should be neatly and prettily folded. The accom- panying engravings exhibit those most in favour, and the methods of folding them. It must, however, be remembered that it is useless to attempt anything but the most simple forms unless the napkins have been slightly starched and smoothly ironed. In every case the folding must be exact, or the result will be slovenly and unsightly. A small dinner-roll, or a piece of bread cut thick, about three inches square, should be placed in each napkin, and such patterns as the “ Mitre,” the “ Neapolitan,” the “ Rose,” and the “ Star,” are convenient shapes, while, when- ever it is possible to do so, the appearance of the dinner-table will be greatly improved by putting a flower or small bouquet in each napkin. 2989. The Mitre.—Fold the napkin into three lengthwise, as in c 1 of the accompanying plate ; turn the two ends over to meet in the middle, as in c 2 ; next fold two corners, as in c 3 ; double the folded napkin under, lengthwise, and you will get c 4. Now bend the left-hand bottom corner towards the right hand, and tuck it into the inner fold ; there is a similar fold to receive the right-hand corner on the outside. 2990. The Star and the Rose —These patterns require a full-size nap- kin, which must also be perfectly square. Lay the napkin flat on the table, and fold the corners over so as to meet in the middle (b i). Without turning the napkin over, repeat the process (b 2). Turn the napkin over, and repeat the pro- cess of folding the corners, so as to meet in the centre (b 3). Turn the napkin over, and repeat the process (b 4). Turn again, and repeat the folding. Now, one at a time, turn the corners of the under side halfway back. This forms the Star. The Rose is made by inserting the finger into the last folds, and pulling out the corners into squares. 2991. The Collegian.—Fold the napkin into three lengthwise, as in d 1 in the plate on the opposite page ; lay it horizontally on the table, and turn down each end from the middle, as in d 2. Now turn the napkin over, and roll up first one and then the other long end, as in d 3, and fold them under, so that they may lie side by side, as in D, or like the woodcut here given. N.B.—In this and the next pattern it may sometimes be con- venient to fold the napkin into four in- the collegian, stead of three. 2992. The Neapolitan.—Fold the napkin into three, as in the preceding directions ; place it horizontally on the table, and fold the upper thickness back upon itself lengthwise. Now turn the napkin over, and proceed as with the Collegian. the Neapolitan.