Recipes for Soups- 182 not already done, the long bone. Put into a deep earthenware jar 2 quarts of water, the herbs and onion, salt, pepper, and the head and feet. Cover it close and bake for two hours in a hot oven. Serve either with the meat cut up or whole. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 6d. per quart. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, excepting in May. 375. —SOUP A LA REINE. (Fr.—Purge de Volaille.) Ingredients.—1 large fowl, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, the crumb of French roll, £ pint of cream, salt to taste, x small lump of sugar, 2 quarts of good white veal stock, No. 278. Mode.—Boil the fowl gently in the stock till quite tender, which will be in about an hour, or rather more; take out the fowl, pull the meat from the bones, and put it into a mortar with the almonds, and pound very fine. When beaten enough, put the meat back into the stock, with the crumb of the rolls, and let it simmer for an hour; rub it through a tammy, add the sugar, ^ pint of cream that has boiled, and, if you prefer the plan, cut the crust of the roll into small round pieces, and pour the soup over it when you serve. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average Cost, 2s. yd. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—All white soups should be warmed in a vessel placed in another of boiling water (See Bain Marie, page 35.) 376. -SOUP A LA REINE. (Fr.—Pur<§e de Volaille.) (Economical.) Ingredients.—Any remains of roast chicken, £ teacupful of rice, salt and pepper to taste, 1 quart of stock, No. 274. Mode.—Take all the white meat and pound it with the rice, which has been slightly cooked, but not much. When it is all well pounded, dilute with the stock, and pass through a sieve. This soup should neither be too clear nor too thick. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 5d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—If stock is not at hand, put the chicken-bones in the water, with an onion, carrot, a few sweet herbs, a blade of mace, pepper and salt, and stew for 3 hours.