1586 The Doctor. 3556. Diarrhoea.—Diarrhoea is a symptom of disease rather than a disease itself. . . , . Causes. —Exposure to cold not unfrequently gives rise to diarrhoea by driving the blood from the surface of the body to the internal organs, thus producing in the bowel an excess of blood (congestion) which is relieved by the escape of the watery parts into the bowel, and an increased production of fluid by the intestinal glands. Exposure to intense heat may also occasion diarrhoea, as also may over- exertion. Among other causes may be mentioned malarial influences ; the inhala- tion of sewer-gas, the emanations from cesspools, from decaying animal and vegetable substances, errors of diet, exhaustion, and the disarrangement of the regular habits of life. Symptoms.—Pain is usually present, often of a colicy nature, and relieved by an action of the bowels. It is occasionally unattended by pain. Treatment. It is of great importance to ascertain the cause, and if possible remove it. Give the body rest; give bland food such as milk, arrowroot, corn- flour. If caused by some undigested food, give a dose of castor oil with ten or fifteen drops of laudanum for an adult. Apply a mustard poultice or mustard leaf over the bowels if there is much pain. 3557. Erysipelas.—Erysipelas of the face is a disease of pretty frequent occurrence. It is rarely seen in children, but it attacks adults of both sexes. It comes on without apparent cause in many cases, but sometimes a blow or exposure to a cold and cutting wind sets up the inflammation. Symptoms.—It usually begins at the ear or one side of the nose, and then the red- ness and swelling extend over that side of the face ; more rarely it crosses over the median line and affects the whole of the upper part of the face. Pain and tingling precede the inflammation, and when the latter has reached its height, the eyelid is so swollen that it cannot be opened ; the ear is large, red and flabby, while the skin adjacent is swollen, red and painful. Erysiplas is, in fact, an inflammation of the skin, and it is severe according to the depth to which this tissue is impli- cated. Sometimes only the upper layer is affected, and then the appearance is like that seen in erythema. There is but slight swelling, and the constitutional symptoms are not severe ; but if the whole thickness of the skin be attacked, and, in addition, the loose cellular tissue beneath, then the inflammation is of graver import, and may spread over a large area. There is from the first a high temperature, quick pulse, thirst, often a sore throat, loss of appetite and a thickly-coated tongue. The patient feels very restless and sleeps badly f.t night: in many cases delirium comes on towards evening, and this is mostly observed in those previously addicted to intemperate habits. The bowels are often constipated, and the • urine high-coloured and containing a little albumen. Erysipelas of the face; without any other complication, usually runs a course of six or seven days, when the temperature rapidly runs down, the tongue begins to clean, and all the febrile symptoms disappear, leaving the patient weak and anaemic. But if the inflammation has affected the deeper layers of the skin, or if the patient has been previously in bad health, matter or pus may form beneath the scalp from extension of the disease upwards; when this occurs the pus soon burrows about under the scalp, and, therefore when this takes place, an opening must be made to let the matter out at once. Treatment.—The patient must be kept in bed and fed on light and nourishing diet. The light should be kept off the patient’s eyes, and the access of air to the inflamed skin prevented by dusting the surface with flour, or smearing the part gently with a mixture of equal parts of castor oil and collodion, or castor oil alone may be used. It effectually keeps off the air and relieves the tightly-stretched skin. Some opening medicine may be given at first, if the bowels are confined and the. tongue much coated. Steel drops is a useful medicine in this disease; it