Greengage Jam. 1001 a preserving-pan, and stir them over the fire until they are quite soft; then strain them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil the juice and sugar together for nearly three- quarters of an hour, stirring and skimming all the time; and if the jelly appears firm when a little of it is poured on a plate, it is done, and should then be taken up and put into small pots. Cover the pots with oiled and egged papers, the same as for currant jelly, No. 2143, and store away in a dry place. Time.—£ hour to simmer the gooseberries without the $ hour neces- sary to boil the juice. Average Cost, from 8d. to 10d. per |-lb. pot. Seasonable in July. 2164.—GRAPE JAM. Ingredients.—Unripe grapes, sugar. JVIode.—The grapes must not be quite ripe, and they should be most carefully picked, all unsound ones being taken out. Allow half a pound of sugar to 1 lb. of grapes. Use no water, but wash the fruit gently. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan, layer for layer with the sugar. Boil rather quickly, stirring always. Pour, when cool, into pots, as usual. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 5^. per lb. Seasonable in J uly and August. 2165—COMPOTE OF GREENGAGES. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup made by recipe No. 2115, 1 quart of greengages. Mode.—Make a syrup by recipe No. 2115, skim it well, and put in the greengages when the syrup is boiling, having previously removed the stalks and stones from the fruit. Boil gently for a quarter of an hour, or until the fruit is tender; but take care not to let it break, as the appearance of the dish would be spoiled were the fruit reduced to a pulp. Take the greengages carefully out, place them on a glass dish, boil the syrup for another 5 minutes, let it cool a little, pour over the fruit, and, when cold, it will be ready for use. Time.—£ hour to simmer the fruit, 5 minutes the syrup. Average Cost, in full season, 10d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in July, August and September 2166.—GREENGAGE JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed before being stoned, allow £ lb. of lump sugar. Mode,—Divide the greengages, take out the stones, and put them into