213 Cod. 43 5.—COD. (Fr.—Cabillaud.) Cod may be boiled whole ; but a large head and shoulders are quite sufficient for a dish, and contain all that is usually helped, because, when the thick part is done, the tail is insipid and overdone. The latter, cut in slices, makes a very good dish for frying; or it may be salted down and served with egg sauce and parsnips. Cod, when boiled quite fresh, is watery; salted a little, it is rendered firmer. The liver is considered a delicacy, and a piece should, if possible, be bought with the fish. The Cod Tribe.—The Jugular, character- wed by bony gills, and ventral fins before the pectoral ones, commences the second of the Linnsrn orders of fishes, and is a numerous tribe, inhabiting only the depths of the ocean, and seldom visiting the fresh waters. They have a smooth head, and the gill membrane has seven rays. The body is oblong, and covered with deciduous scales. The fans are all enclosed in skin, whilst the col.. their rays are unarmed. The ventral fins are slender, and terminate in a point. Their habits are gregarious, and they feed on smaller fish and other marine animals. 436.—COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. (Fr.- Cabillaud.) Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the fish; 5 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly, and rub a little salt over the thick part and inside of the fish one or two hours before dressing it, as thi s very much improves the flavour. Lay it in the fish-kettle, in sufficient hot water to cover it. Be very particular not to pour the water on the fish, as it is liable to break, and only keep it just simmering. If the water should boil away, add a little by pouring it in at the side of the kettle, and not on the fish. Add salt in the above proportion, and bring it gradually to a boil. Skim very carefully, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it gently simmer till done. Take it out and drain it; serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon, and horse-radish. It may also be steamed. Time.—According to size, £ an hour, more or less. Average Cost, from 4d. to is. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow about | lb. for each person with head and shoulders, but rather less when the middle of the fish is chosen instead. Seasonable from November to March. Note.—Oyster sauce should be served with this. To Choose Cod.—The Cod should be chosen for the table when it is plump