266 Recipes for Cooking Fish. over the fire until somewhat reduced. Rub it through a sieve, pour it over the tench with the oysters, which must be previously scalded in their own liquor, squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve. Garnish with croutons. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, 5s. Seasonable from October to March. Sufficient for eight persons. The Tench.—This fish is generally found in foul and weedy waters, and in such places as are well supplied with rushes. They thrive best in standing waters, and are more numerous in pools and ponds than in rivers. Those taken in the latter however, are preferable for the table. It does not often exceed four or five pounds in weight, and is in England esteemed as a delicious and wholesome food. As, however, they are sometimes found in waters where the mud is excessively fetid, their flavour, if cooked immediately on being caught, is often unpleasant ; but if they are transferred into clear water, they soon tknch. recover from the obnoxious taint. 569 —TENCH STEWED WITH WINE. (Fr.—Tanche au Vin Blanc.) Ingredients.—1 tench, £ pint of stock, No. 273 ; £ pint of Madeira or sherry, salt and pepper to taste, 1 bay-leaf, x oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour. Mode.—Clean and crimp the tench ; carefully lay it in a stewpan with the stock, wine, salt and pepper, and bay leaf; let it stew gently for half an hour; then take it out, put it on a dish, and keep hot. In another pan melt the butter, stir in the flour with a wooden spoon, add the strained liquor, boil and thicken. Season with a very little cayenne, and pour over the fish. Garnish with balls of veal forcemeat. Time.—Rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, 3s. Seasonable from October to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. A Singular Quality In the Tench.—It is said that the tench is possessed of such healing properties among the finny tribes, that even the voracious pike spares it on this account. “ The pike, fell tyrant of the liquid plain, With ravenous waste devours his fellow train; Yet howsoe’er with raging famine pined, The tench he spares, a medicinal kind ; For when by wounds distress’d, or sore disease, He courts the salutary fish for ease; Close to his scales the kind physician glides, And sweats a healing balsam from his sides.” In our estimation, however, this self-denial in the pike may be attributed to a less poetical csuse; namely, from the mud-loving disposition of the tench, it is enabled to keep itself so completely concealed at the bottom of its aqueous haunts, that it remains secure from the attacks of its predatory neighbour,