1530 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. Mode.—Mix the turpentine and sweet oil together, stirring in sufficient emery-powder to make the mixture of the thickness of cream. Put it on the article with a piece of soft flannel, rub off quickly with another piece, then polish with a little emery-powder and clean leather. 3426.-TO PRESERVE BRIGHT GRATES OR FIRE- IRONS FROM RUST. Make strong paste of fresh lime and water, and with a fine brush smear it as thickly as possible over all the polished surface requiring preser- vation. By this simple means, all the grates and fire-irons in an empty house may be kept lor months free from harm, without further care or attention. 3427.-TO REMOVE RUST FROM BRIGHT GRATES. When bright grates are once neglected, small rust-spots begin to show themselves, which a plain leather will not remove; the following method of cleaning them must then be resorted to:—First, thoroughly clean with emery- paper : then take a large smooth pebble from the road, sufficiently large to hold comfortably in the hand, with which rub the steel backwards and forwards one way, until the desired polish is obtained. It may appear at first to scratch, but continue rubbing, and the result will be success. 3428.-THE LIGHTING OF FIRES. Fire-lighting, however simple, is an operation requiring some skill; a fire is readily jnade by laying a few cinders at the bottom in open order ; over this a few pieces of paper, and over that again eight or ten pieces of dry wood; over the wood, a course of moderate-sized pieces of coal, taking care to leave hollow spaces between for air at the centre ; and taking care to lay the whole well back in the grate, so that the smoke may go up the chimney, and not into the room. This done, fire the paper with a match from below, and, if properly laid, it will soon burn up; the stream of flame from the wood and paper soon com- municating to the coals and cinders, provided there is plenty of air at the centre. Another method of lighting a fire is sometimes practised with advantage, the fire lighting from the top and burning down, in place of being lighted and burning up from below. This is arranged by laying the coals at the bottom, mixed with a few good-sized cinders, and the wood at the top, riRE LAID.