To Make Beef-Tea 1233 2776.—TO MAKE BARLEY-WATER. Ingredients.—2 oz. of pearl barley, 2 quarts of boiling water, 1 pint of cold water. Mode.—Wash the barley in cold water ; put it into a saucepan with the above proportion of cold water, and when it has boiled for about a quarter of an hour, strain off the water, and add the 2 quarts of fmsh boiling water. Boil it until the liquid is reduced one half; strain it, and it will be ready for use. It may be flavoured with lemon-peel, after being sweetened, or a small piece may be simmered with the barley. When the invalid may take it, a little lemon-juice gives this pleasant drink in illness a very nice flavour. Time.—To boil until the liquid is reduced one half. Sufficient to make 1 quart of barley-water. 2777.—TO MAKE BEEF-TEA. Ingredients.—1 lb. of lean gravy-beef, 1 quart of water, x saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Have the meat cut without fat and bone, and choose a nice fleshy piece. Cut it into small pieces about the size of dice, and put it into a clean jar. Add the water cold to it; set the jar in a saucepan of water, put it on the fire, and simmer the beef-tea gently from 3 to 5 hours. Strain the tea through a coarse sieve, and set it by in a cool place. When wanted for use, it is easy to remove every particle of fat from the top; warm up as much as may be required, adding, if necessary, a little salt. This preparation is simple beef-tea, and is to be administered to those invalids to whom flavourings and seasonings are not allowed. When the patient is very low, use double the quantity of meat to the same propor- tion of water. Should the invalid be able to take the tea prepared in a more palatable manner, it is easy to make it so by following the directions in the next recipe, which is an admirable one for making savoury beef- tea ; but it should never be forgotten that when a patient is very ill, the less seasoning of any kind the better. A sick person tastes what is im- perceptible to a person in health, and even a moderate amount of salt often increases the pain of swallowing in very delicate states of the mouth and throat. Very strong beef-tea is often disliked for the same reason; with all the care possible to make the tea without seasoning, it tastes salt from the salts in the meat itself. The fat can be removed as above, or by laying pieces of paper on the surface while it is hot, but (except for a patient likely to be sick) it is often better to leave a little fat, as it aids diges- tion and makes it go down easier. It is a good plan to put the tea into a small cup or basin, and to place this basin in a saucepan of boiling water,