Plum Pudding. 86i 1833.-AN EXCELLENT PLUM PUDDING MADE WITHOUT EGGS. Ingredients.—i lb. of flour, 6 oz. of raisins, 6 oz. of currants, £ lb. of chopped suet, £ lb. of brown sugar, f lb. mashed carrot, f lb. of mashed potatoes, x tablespoonful of treacle, x oz. of candied lemon peel, 1 oz. of candied citron. Mode.—Mix the flour, currants, suet, and sugar well together; have ready the above proportions of mashed carrot and potato, which stir into the other ingredients ; add the treacle and lemon-peel ; but put no liquid in the mixture, or it will be spoiled. Tie it loosely in a cloth, or, if put in a basin, do not quite fill it, as the pudding should have room to swell, and boil it for 4 hours. Serve with brandy sauce. This pudding is better for being mixed over-night. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1834.—AN UNRIVALLED PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients.—ii lb. of muscatel raisins, if lb. of cui'rants, 1 lb. of sultana raisins, 2 lbs. of the finest , moist sugar, 2 lbs. of bread-crumbs, 16 eggs, 2 lbs. of finely-chopped suet, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel, the rind of 2 lemons, 1 oz. of ground nutmeg, 1 oz. of ground cinnamon, £ oz. of pounded bitter almonds, f pint of brandy. Mode .—Stone and cut up the raisins, but do not chop them; wash and dry the currants, and cut the candied peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry ingredients well together, and moisten with the eggs, which should be well-beaten and strained, to the pudding ; stir in the brandy and, when all is thoroughly mixed, well butter and flour a stout new pudding cloth ; put in the pudding, tie it down very tightly and closely ; boil from 6 to 8 hours, and serve with brandy sauce. A few sweet almonds, blanched and cut in strips, and stuck or. the pudding, ornament it prettily. This quantity may be divided and boiled in buttered moulds. For small fami- lies this is the most desirable way, as the above will be found to make a pudding of rather large dimensions. Time.—6 to 8 hours. Average Cost, 7s. 6d. Sufficient for 12 or 14 persons. Seasonable in winter. Note.—The muscatel raisins can be purchased at a cheap rate loose (not in bunches): they are then scarcely higher in price than the ordinary raisins, and impart a much ricber flavour to the pudding. Sultana Grape.—We have elsewhere stated that the small black grape grown in Corinth and the Ionian Isles is, when dried, the common currant of the grocers’ shops ; the white or yellow grape, grown in the same places, is somewhat larger