Tomato Sauce. 1041 Mode.—Choose ripe tomatoes, put them into a stone jar and stand them in a cool oven until quite tender; when cold, take the skins and stalks from them, mix the pulp with the liquor which is in the jar, but do not strain it; add all the other ingredients, mix well together, and put it into well-sealed bottles. Stored away in a cool dry place, it will keep good for years. It is ready for use as soon as made, but the flavour is better after a week or two. Should it not appear to keep, turn in out, and boil it up with a little additional ginger and cayenne. For immediate use, the skins should be put into a wide-mouthed bottle with a little of the different ingredients, and they will be found very nice for hashes or stews. Time.—4 or 5 hours in a cool oven. Average Cost, IJ. 4d. Seasonable from the middle of September to the end of October. 2257.—TOMATO SAUCE FOR KEEPING. {Another Mode. Excellent.) Ingredients.—3 dozen tomatoes ; to every pound of tomato-pulp allow 1 pint of Chili vinegar, 1 oz. of garlic, 1 oz. of shalot, 2 oz. of salt, 1 large green capsicum, % teaspoonful of cayenne, 2 pickled gherkins, 6 pickled onions, 1 pint of common vinegar, and the juice of 6 lemons. Mode.—Choose the tomatoes when quite ripe and red ; put them in a jar with a cover to it, and bake them till tender. The better way is to put them in the oven over-night, when it will not be too hot, and examine them in the morning to see if they are tender. Do not allow them to remain in the oven long enough to break them ; but they should be sufficiently soft to skin nicely and rub through the sieve. Measure the pulp, and to each pound of pulp add the above proportion of vinegar and other ingredients* taking care to chop very fine the garlic, shalot, capsicum, onion and gherkins. Boil the whole together till everything is tender; then again rub it through a sieve, and add the lemon-juice. Now boil the whole again till it becomes as thick as cream, and keep continually stirring; bottle it when quite cold, cork well, and seal the corks. If the flavour of garlic and shalot is very much disliked, diminish the quantities. Time.—Bake the tomatoes in a cool oven all night. Seasonable from the middle of September to the end of October. Note.—A quantity of liquor will flow from the tomatoes, which must be put through the sieve with the rest. Keep it well stirred while on the fire, and use a wooden spoon. 2258—TOMATO CHOW-CHOW. Ingredients.—Take 6 large ripe tomatoes, 1 large onion, 1 green pepper, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 2 of brown sugar, 2 teacupfuls of vinegar. Mode.—Peel and cut fine the tomatoes, chop fine the onion and pepper, add the salt, sugar, and vinegar. Stew gently for one hour. Seasonable.—Make this in September.