*196 Recipes for Beverages. latter when the flavour is very much liked ; but strong green tea dis- agrees with some persons, and should never be partaken of by them. Time.—2 minutes to warm the teapot, 5 to 10 minutes to draw the strength from the tea. Sufficient.—Allow 1 teaspoonful to each person, and one over. Tea.—The tea-tree or shrub belongs to the class and order of Monadelphia polyandria in the I.innaean system, and to the natural order of Aurantiacca in the system of Jussieu. Lately it has been made into a new order, the Theasm, which includes the camellia and some other plants. It commonly glows to the height of from three to six feet; but it is said that, in its wild or native state, it reaches twenty feet or more. In China, it ^cultivated in numerous small plantations. In its general appearance, and the form of its leaf, it resembles the myrtle. The blossoms are white and fragrant, not unlike those of the wild rose, but smaller; and they are succeeded by soft green capsules, containing each from one to three white seeds. These capsules are crushed for oil, which is in general use in China. Note.—The Tea-Float is a very useful addition to the teapot. The tea is placed in the float, and the float in the teapot. Boiling water is added as in ordinary tea-making. The float rises to the surface, and thus retains the tea at the hottest part of the water, instead of its sinking to the bottom, which is the coldest part. By this application of natural laws and the chemistry of tea-making, all the strength of the tea is withdrawn, and sugar basin, cream ewer and teapot. the infusion is far stronger than when prepared in the usual way. A smaller quantity of tea is therefore required when the tea-float is used. The float can be procured of all grocers, tea dealers, &c., and is from is. to is. 6d. in price. 2671.—AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR MILK OR CREAM IN TEA OR COFFEE. Ingredients.—Allow 1 new-laid egg to every large breakfastcupful of tea or coffee. Mode.—Beat up the whole of the egg in a basin, put it into a teacup (or a portion of it, if the cup be small), and pour over it the tea or coffee very hot. These should be added very gradually, and stirred all the time, to prevent the egg from curdling. In point of nourishment, both these beverages are much improved by this addition. Sufficient.—Allow I egg to every large breakfastcupful of ter. or coffee. 2672.—TO MAKE COCOA. Ingredients.—Allow 2 teaspoonfuls of the prepared cocoa, or one of Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, to 1 breakfast-cup ; boiling milk and boiling water. TEA.