truffles, butter, 1 teacupful of cream ; parsley. Potted Crab or Lobster. 22t 455.—CRAB SALAD. Ingredients.—2 small crabs, I large lettuce, 1 bunch watercress, tablespoonfuls of oil, 1 of vinegar, 1 hard-boiled egg, a few slices of beet- root or a tomato, pepper and salt. Mode.—Pick all the meat from the shells and shred it finely. Wash and dry the lettuce and cress and cut it up in a bowl, and mix first with the oil, next the pepper and salt, and lastly the vinegar. Stir all well together, then add the crab, mixing it well with the salad. Pile on a flat dish and garnish with the egg cut in slices and the beetroot or tomato. +56.—HOT CRAB. (Fr.—Crabe au Gratin.) Ingredients.—I crab, nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, 3 oz. of butter, I lb. of bread-crumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.—After having boiled the crab, pick the meat out from the shells, and mix with it the nutmeg and seasoning. Cut up the butter in small pieces, and add the bread-crumbs and vinegar. Mix altogether, put the whole in the large shell, and brown before the fire or with a salamander. It is better to use browned bread-crumbs. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, from is. to 2s. Seasonable all the year ; but not so good in May, June and July. Sufficient for 3 persons. The Crab Tribe.—The whole of this tribe of animals have the body covered with a bard and strong shell, and live chiefly in the sea. Some, however, inhabit fresh waters, and few live upon land. They feed variously, on aquatic or marine plants, small fish, molluscm, or dead bodies. The black-clawed species is lound on the rocky coasts of both Europe and India, and is the same that is intro- duced to our tables, being much more highly esteemed as a food than many others of the tribe. The most remarkable feature in their history is the changing of their shells, and the reproduction of their broken claws. The former occurs once a year, usually between Christmas and Easter, when the crabs retire to cavities in the rocks, or conceal them- selves under great stones. Fishermen say that they will live confined in a pot or basket for several months together, without any other food than what is collected from the sea-water ; and that, even in this situa- tion, they will not decrease in weight. The hermit crab is another of the species, and has the peculiarity of taking possession of the deserted shell of some other animal, as it has none of its own. This circumstance was known to the ancients, and is alluded to in the following lines from Oppian:— “The hermit fish, unarm’d, by nature left Helpless and weak, grow strong by harmless theft. Fearful they stroll, and look with panting wish For the cast crust of some new-cover'd fish ; Or such as empty lie, and deck the shore, Whose first and rightful owners are no more. They make glad seizure of the vacant room, And count the borrow’d shell their native home ; Screw their soft limbs to fit the winding case, And boldly herd with the crustaceous race." 457 —POTTED CRAB OR LOBSTER. Ingredients.—Crabs or lobsters, 3 eggs (yolks only), mushrooms or