864 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. brantwein, signifies burnt wine, or wine that has undergone the action of fire ; brandies, so called, however, have been made from potatoes, carrots, beetroot, pears, and other vegetable substances; but they are all interior to true brandy. Brandy is prepared in most wine countries, but that of France is the most esteemed. It is procured not only by distilling the wine itself, but also by fermenting and distilling the marc, or residue of the pressings of the grape. It is procured in- differently from red or white wine, and different wines yield very different proportions of it, the strongest, of course, giving the largest quantity. Brandy obtained from marc has a more acrid taste than that from wine. The celebrated brandy from Cognac, a town in the department of Charente, and that brought from And raye seem to owe their excellence to being made from white wine. Like other spirit, brandy is colourless when recently distilled ; by mere keeping, however, owing, probably, to some change in the soluble matter contained in it, it acquires a slight colour, which is much increased by keeping in casks, and is made of the required intensity by the addition of burnt sugar or other colouring matter. What is called British brandy is not, in fact, brandy, which is the name, as we have said, of a spirit distilled from wine; but it is a spirit made chiefly from malt spirit, with the addition of mineral acids and various flavouring ingredi- ents, the exact composition being kept secret. It is distilled somewhat extensively in this country; real brandy scarcely at all. The brandies imported into England are chiefly from Bordeaux, Rochelle and Cognac. 1838.—A POUND PLUM-PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 8 eggs, £ grated nutmeg, 2 oz. of sliced candied peel, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger,-^ lb. of bread-crumbs, | lb. of flour, £ pint of milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; mix with it the dry ingredients; stir these well together, and add the well-beaten eggs and milk to moisten with; beat up the mixture well, and should the above proportion of milk not be found sufficient to make it of the proper con- sistency, a little more should be added ; press the pudding into a mould, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for 5 hours, or rather with brandy sauce. Time.—5 hours, or longer. Average Cost, 3s. bAKED pudding or Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. irtxE-MouLD, Seasonable in winter. Note.—The above pudding may be baked instead of boiled ; it should be put into a buttered mould or tin, ,ind baked for about 2 hours ; a smaller one would take about 1J hour. Citron. —The fruit of the citron-tree (Citrus medica) is acidulous, antiseptic, and antiscorbutic ; it excites the appetite, and stops vomiting, and, like lemon-juice, has been greatly extolled in chronic rheumatism, gout, and scurvy. Mixed with cordials, it is used as an antidote to the machmeel poison. The candied peel is prepared in the same manner as orange or lemon peel; that is to say, the peel is boiled in water until quite soft, and then suspended in concentrated syrup (in the cold), after which it is either dried in a current of warm air, or in a stove, at a heat not exceeding 120° Fahrenheit. The syrup must be kept fully saturated with sugar by reboiling it once or twice during the process. It may be dusted with powdered lump sugar, if necessary. The citron is supposed to be the Median, Assyrian, or Persian apple of the Greeks. It is described by Risso ?s having a majestic appearance, its shining leaves and rosy flowers being succeeded by fruit whose beauty and size astonish the observer, whilst their odour gratifies his senses. In China there is an enormous variety, but the citron is cultivated in all orange-growing countries. 1839.—PLUM-PUDDING OF FRESH FRUIT. Ingredients.—f lb. of suet crust, No. 1684, 1^ pint of Orleans or any other kind of plum, £ lb. of moist sugar. longer, and serve