952 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. 2034.—STEWED PEARS. (Fr.—Poires a I’AlIemande.) Ingredients.—6 to 8 pears, water, sugar, 2 oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, £ oz. of gelatine. Mode.—Peel and cut the pears into any form that may be preferred, and steep them in cold water to prevent them turning black ; put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, and boil them, with the butter and enough sugar to sweeten them nicely, until tender; then brush the pears over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle them with sifted sugar, and arrange them on a dish. Add the gelatine to the syrup, simmer it quickly for about 5 minutes, strain it over the pears, and let it remain until set. The syrup may be coloured with a little prepared cochineal, which would very much improve the appearance of the dish. Time.—From 20 minutes to £ hour to stew the pears ; 5 minutes for the syrup. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for a large dish. Seasonable from August to February. 2035.—MOULDED PEARS. (Fr.—Gelee aux Poires.) Ingredients.—4 large pears or 6 small ones, 8 cloves, sugar to taste, water, a small piece of cinnamon, £ pint of raisin wine, a strip of lemon- peel, the juice of £ a lemon, £ oz. of gelatine. Mode.—Peel and cut the pears into quarters ; put them into a jar with three-quarters of a pint of water, cloves, cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely ; cover down the top of the jar, and bake the pears in a gentle oven until perfectly tender, but do not allow them to break. When done, lay the pears in a plain mould, which should be well wetted, simmer half a pint of the liquor the pears were baked in with the wine, lemon-peel, strained juice, and gelatine. Let these ingredients simmer well for 5 minutes, then strain the liquid warm over the pears ; put the mould in a cool place, and, when the jelly is firm, turn it out on a glass dish. Time.—2 hours to bake the pears in a cool oven. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Seasonable from August to February. 2036.—PINE-APPLE FRITTERS. (Fr.—Beignets d’Ananas.) (An Elegant Dish.) Ingredients.—A small pine-apple, a small wineglassful of brandy or liqueur, 2 oz. of sifted sugar; batter as for apple fritters, No. 1929. Mode.—This elegant dish, although it mav appear extravagant, is