659 Fricasseed Turkey, Time.—8 minutes to fry the croquettes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from December to February. The Wild Turkey. - In its wild state, the turkey is gregarious, going together In extensive flocks, numbering as many as 500. These frequent the great swamps of America, where they roost ; but, at sunrise, leave these situations to repair to the dry woods, in search of berries and acorns. They perch on the boughs of trees, and, by rising from branch to branch, attain the height they desire. They usually mount to the hightst tops, apparently from an instinctive con- ception that the loftier they are the further they are out of danger. They fly awkwardly, but run with great swiftness, and about the month of March become so fat as not to be able to take a flight beyond 300 or 400 yards, and are then, also, easily run down by a horseman. Now, how- ever, it rarely happens that wild turkeys are seen in the inhabited parts of America. It is only in the distant and more unfrequented parts that they are found in great numbers. 1369 — FRICASSEED TURKEY. (Fr.—Fricassee de Dinde.) (tCold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled turkey ; a strip of iemon-peel, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, the yolk of an egg. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from the remains of a cold turkey, and put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with the lemon-peel, herbs, onion, pepper, salt, and the water ; stew for an hour, strain the gravy, and lay in the pieces of turkey. When warm through, add the cream and the yolk of an egg; stir it well round, and, when getting thick, take out the pieces, lay them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Garnish the fricassee with sippets of fried bread. Celery or cucumbers, cut into small pieces, may be put into the sauce; if the former, it must be boiled first. Time.—i hour to make the gravy. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold turkey, 4d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable from December to February. The Turkey.—This is one of the gallinaceous birds, the principal genera of which are Pheasants, Turkeys, Peacocks, Bustards, Pintatoes and Giouse. They live mostly on the ground, scraping the earth with their feet, and feeding on seeds and grains, which, previous to digestion, are macerated in their crops. They usually associate in families, consisting of one male and several females. Turkeys are particularly fond of the seeds of nettles, whilst the seeds of the foxglove will poison them. The common turkey is a native of North America, and in the reign of Henry VIII.. was introduced into England. According to Tusser s “ Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandry," it began about the year 1585 to form a dish at our rural Christmas feast •— " Beefe, mutton, and pork, shred pies of the best, Pig, veal, goose, and capon, and turkey well drest : Cheese, apples, and nuts, jolly carols to hear, As then in the country is counted good cheer ” The turkey is one of the most difficult birds to rear, and its flesh is much esteemeo. The Disposition of the Turkey.—Among themselves, turkeys are extremely furious, whilst amongst other animals they are usually both weak and cowardly. The domestic cock frequently makes them keep at a distance, whilst they will rarely attack him but in a units d body, when the cock is rather crushed by their weight than defeated by their prowess. The disposition of the female is in general much more gentle than that of the male. When leading forth her young to collect their food, though so large and apparently so powerful a bird, she gives them very slight protection from the attacks of any rapacious animal which may appear against them She rather warns them of theii danger than offers to defend them ; yet she is extremely affectionate to her young.