258 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 551-TO BAKE SMELTS. (Fr.—Eperlans au Gratin.) Ingredients.—12 smelts, bread-crumbs, £ lb. of fresh butter, 2 blades of pounded mace, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Wash and dry the fish thoroughly in a cloth, and arrange them nicely in a flat baking-dish. Cover them with fine bread-crumbs, and place little pieces of butter all over them. Season and bake for 15 minutes. Just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, from is. to 2s. per dozen. Seasonable from October to May. Sufficient for 4 persons. To Choose Smelts.—When good, this fish is of a fine silvery appearance, and when alive, their backs are of a dark brown shade, which, after death, fades to a light fawn. They ought to have a refreshing fragrance, resembling that of a cucumber. The Odour of the Smelt.—This peculiarity in the smelt has been compared, by some, to the fragrance of a cucumber, and by others, to that of a violet. It is a very elegant fish, and formerly abounded in the Thames. The Atharine, or sand smelt, is sometimes sold for the true one; but it is an inferior fish, being drier in the quality of its flesh. On the south coast of England, where the true smelt is rare, it is plentiful. 552.—TO FRY SMELTS. (Fr.—Eperlans Frits.) Ingredients.—Egg and bread-crumbs, a little flour, boiling fat or oil. Mode.—Smelts should be very fresh, and not washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour, dip them in egg, and cover with very fine bread-crumbs, and put them into boiling fat or oil. Fry of a nice pale brown, and be careful not to take off the crumbs, or their beauty will be spoiled. Dry them before the fire on a piece of paper, and serve with plain melted butter. This fish is often used as a garnish. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, from 15. to 2s. per dozen. Seasonable from October to May. The Smelt.—This is a delicate little fish, and is in high esteem. Mr. Yarrell asserts that the true smelt is entirely confined to the western and eastern coasts of Britain. It very rarely ventures far from the shore, and is plentiful in November, December and January. 553—POTTED SMELTS. (Fr—Terrine d’Eperlans.) Ingredients.—Fresh smelts, mace, pepper, salt and butter. Mode.—Wash the fish carefully, draw out the insides, and dust the seasoning over them. Put them into a baking tin with pieces of butter and bake them 20 minutes. Let them get nearly cold, then put them on a clean cloth to drain, then into pots. Clarify the butter in which they were baked, adding more if necessary, and pour it on the pots. THE SMELT.