Joi6 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. Seasonable in September and October; but better when made in the latter month, as the pumpkin is then quite ripe. Note.—Vegetable marrows are very good prepared in the same manner, but not quite so rich. 2198.—STEWED PRUNES. (An Excellent Dish for Children.) Ingredients.— Prunes, sugar, water. Mode.—Wash the fruit, and for every pound allow half a pound of raw sugar and 1 pint of water. Boil the sugar and water together for io minutes, then put in the fruit, and let it boil gently for 2 hours, or until quite tender, so that it breaks if touched. Drain the syrup from the prunes, and boil it until it becomes thick, put the prunes back into it, and let them stand until the next day. Time.—2f hours. Average Cost, 8d. per lb. Seasonable at any time. 2199.—QUINCE JELLY. Ingredients.—To every pint of juice allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and slice the quinces, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to float them. Boil them until tender, and the fruit is reduced to a pulp ; strain off the clear juice, and to each pint allow the above proportion of loaf sugar. Boil the j uice and sugar together for about three-quarters of an hour, remove all the scum as it rises ; and, when the jelly appears firm upon a little being poured on a plate, it is done. The residue left on the sieve will answer to make a common marmalade, for immediate use, by boiling it with half a lb. of common sugar to every lb. of pulp. Time.—3 hours to boil the quinces in water ; £ hour to boil the jelly. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. pot. Seasonable from August to October. 2200.-QUINCE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of quince pulp allow fib. of loaf-sugar. Mode.—Slice the quinces into a preserving-pan, adding sufficient water for them to float; place them on the fire to stew until reduced to a pulp, keeping them stirred occasionally from the bottom, to prevent their burning; then pass the pulp through a hair sieve to keep back the skin and seeds. Weigh the pulp, and to each pound add lump sugar in the above proportion, broken very small. Place the whole on the fire, and keep it well stirred from the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon, until reduced to a marmalade, which may be known by dropping a little on a cold plate, when, if it jellies, it is done. Put it into jars whilst hot; let it cool, and cover with pieces of oiled paper cut to the size of the mouths