248 Recipes for Cooking Fish. ’ Mode.—Cut the fish into pieces about 2 inches wide, salt them, and let them remain a quarter of an hour. Slice and fry the onions a fight brown; put them in a stewpan, on the top of which put the fish, without washing, and add the ginger, lemon-juice and water. Cook slowly for half an hour, and do not let the fish boil, or it will break. Take it out, and when the liquor is cool, add 6 well-beaten eggs; simmer till it thickens, when pour over the fish, and serve. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, for this quantity, 2s. gd. Seasonable from May to November. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons; but accord- ing to size. They are often very large. The Plaice.—This fish is found both in the Baltic and the Mediterranean, and is also abundant on the coast of England. It keeps well, and, like all ground-fish, is very tenacious of life. Its flesh is inferior to that of the sole, and, as it is a low-priced fish, it is gen- erally bought by the poor. The best brought to the London market are called Dowers plaice. from their being caught in the Dowers, or flats, between Hastings and Folkestone. Plaice may be filleted and nicely fried with eggs and bread-crumbs, when it is excellent. Dutch sauce should be served with filleted plaice. 526.—TO BOIL PRAWNS or SHRiMPS. (TV.-Crevettes.) Ingredients.—£ lb. salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Prawns should be very red, and have no spawn when cooked ; much depends on their freshness and the way in which they are cooked. Throw them into boiling water, salted as above, and keep them boiling for about 7 or 8 minutes. Shrimps should be done in the same way; but less time must be allowed. It may easily be known when they are done by their changing colour. Care should be taken that they are not over- boiled, as they then become tasteless and indigestible. Time.—Prawns, about 8 minutes; shrimps, about 5 minutes. Average Cost, prawns, 61i. to is, 6d. doz.; shrimps, 3d. to 6d. pint. Seasonable all the year. 527—TO SERVE PRAWNS. Cover a dish with a large cup reversed, and over that lay a small white napkin. Arrange the prawns on it in the form of a pyramid, and garnish with plenty of parsley. 528.—BOILED SALMON. (Fv.—Saumon.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water ; sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Scale and clean the fish, and be particular that no blood is left inside ; lay it in the fish-kettle with sufficient hot water to cover it, adding salt in the above proportion. Bring it quickly to a boil, take off