Roast Quails. 685 Europe, as well as in Greenland. At Hudson’s Bay they appear in such multitudes that so many as sixty or seventy are frequently taken at once in a net. As they are as tame as chickens, this is done without difficulty. Burton says that the Ptarmigan avoids the solar heat, and prefers the frosts of the summits of the mountains; for as the snow melts on the sides of the moun- tains, it ascends till it gains the top, where it makes a hole and burrows in the snow. In winter, it flies in flocks, and feeds on the wild vegetation of the hills, which imparts to its flesh a bitter, but not altogether an unpalatable taste. It is dark-coloured, and has something of the flavour of the hare, and is greatly relished and much sought after by some sportsmen. 1411.-TO DRESS QUAILS. (Fr.—Dailies Roties.) Ingredients.—Quails, butter, toast. Mcde. —These birds keep good several days, and should be roasted without drawing. Truss them in the same manner as woodcocks, roast them before a clear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on toast. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average Cost, 15. to 2s. each. Sufficient.—• I for each person. Seasonable from October to February, The Quail.—Quails are almost universally diffused over Europe, Asia and Africa. Being birds of passage, they are seen in immense flocks, traversing the Mediterranean Sea from Europe to Africa, in the autumn, and returning again in the spring, frequently alighting in their passage on many of the islands of the Archipelago, which, with their vast numbers, they almost completely cover. On the western coasts of the kingdom of Naples, they have appeared in such prodigious numbers that within the compass of four or five miles, as many as a hundred thousand have been taken in a day. “ From these circumstances," says a writer on natural history, “ It appears highly probable that the quails which supplied the Israelites with food during their journey through the wilderness, were sent thither, on their passage to the north, by a wind from the south-west, sweeping ovei Egypt and Ethiopia towards the shores of the Red Sea.” In England they are not very numerous, although they breed in it; and many of them are said to remain throughout the year, changing their quarters from the interior parts of the country for the sea coast. THE QUAIL. 1412.—TO DRESS SNIPES. (Fr0—Becassines Roties.) Ingredients.—Snipes, butter, flour, toast, Mode.—These, like woodcocks, should be dressed without being drawn. Place four on a skewer, tie them on to the jack or spit, and roast before a clear fire for about a quarter of an hour. Put some pieces of buttered toast into the dripping-pan to catch the trails ; flour and froth the birds nicely, dish the pieces of toast with the snipes on them, and pour round, but not over them, a little good brown gravy. They should be sent to table very hot and expe- ditiously, or they will not be worth eating. Time.—About £ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. the brace. Sufficient.— 1 for each person. Seasonable from November to February