Parsley and Butter. 341 Sufficient for 6 persons. Never allow fewer than 6 oysters to i person, unless the party is very large. Seasonable from September to April. Note. A more economical sauce may be made by using a smaller quantity of oysters and not bearding them before they are added to the sauce ; this may answer the purpose, but we cannot undertake to recommend it as a mode of making this delicious adjunct to fish, &c. Tinned oysters may also serve. 753—PARSLEY AND BUTTER. {Ft.-Sauce Blanche aux Fines Herbes.) (To Serve with Calf's Head, Boiled Fowls, &c.) Ingredients. — 2 teaspoonfuls of minced parsley, £ pint of melted butter, No. 675 ; teaspoonful of sweet herbs. Mode.—Put into a saucepan a small quantity of water, slightly salted, and, when it boils, throw in a good bunch of parsley, which has been previously washed and tied together in a bunch ; let it boil for 5 minutes, drain it, mince the leaves very fine, and put the above quantity in a tureen ; pour over it half a pint of smoothly-made melted butter; stir once, that the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed, and serve. Time.—5 minutes to boil the parsley. Average Cost, 4d. Sufficient for 1 large fowl ; allow rather more for a pair. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Sometimes, in the middle of winter, parsley leaves are not to be had when the following will be found an excellent substitute Tie up a little Darslev’ seed in a small piece of muslin, and boil it for io minutes F > in a small quantity of water ; use this water to make the melted butter with, and throw into it a little boiled spinach, minced rather fine, which will have an appear- ance similar to that of parsley. Paisley. (Fr. Persil.)— If there be nothing new under the sun, there are, at any rate, different uses found for the lame thing • for this pretty aromatic herb was used in ancient times, as we learn trom mythological narrative, to adorn the head of a hero no less than Hercules; and now—was ever fall so great?—we moderns use IM" ??,nnectl?n wrltl? ,he head of—a calf. According to Homer’s Iliad, warriors fed their chariot steeds on parsley; and Plinv fS W'tu thue fact that' as a symbol of mourning, it was ad- mitted to furnish the funeral tables of the Romans. Egypt some say, first produced this herb, thence it was introduced,*by some unknown voyager, into Sardinia, where the Carthaginians found it and made it known to the inhabitants of Marseilles. rAKaLEY, 754—FRIED PARSLEY FOR GARNISHING. (Fr.—Persil frit pour Garniture.) Ingredients. Parsley, hot oil or clarified dripping. . Mode.—Gather some young parsley ; wash, pick and dry it thoroughly in a cloth; put it into the wire basket of which we have given an en-