524 General Observations on the Common Hog. anatomy, with a small melancholy voice, a staggering gait, a woe-begOne countenance, and a thread of a tail, whose existence the complacent mother ignores, his plethoric brothers and sisters repudiate, and for whose emaciated jaws there is never a spare or supplemental teat, till one of the favoured gor- mandisers, overtaken by momentary oblivion, drops the lacteal fountain, and gives the little squeaking struggler the chance of a momentary mouthful. This miserable little object, which may be seen bringing up the rear of every litter, is called the Tony pig, or the Anthony; so named, it is presumed, from being the one always assigned to the Church, when tithe was taken in kind ; and as St. Anthony was the patron of husbandry, his name was given in a sort of bitter derision to the starveling that constituted his dues ; for whether there are 10 or 16 pigs to the litter, the Anthony is always the last of the family to come into the world. 1148. From the Grossness of his Feeding, the large amount of aliment he consumes, his gluttonous way of eating it, from his slothful habits, laziness and indulgence in sleep, the pig is particularly liable to disease, and especially indigestion, heartburn and affections of the skin. To counteract the consequence of a violation of the physical laws, a powerful monitor in the brain of the pig teaches him to seek for relief and medicine. To open the pores of his skin, blocked up with mud, and excite perspiration, he resorts to a tree, a stump, or his trough—anything rough and angular, and using it as a currycomb to his body, obtains the luxury of a scratch and the benefit of cuticular evaporation ; he next proceeds with his long supple snout to grub up antiscorbutic roots, cooling salads of mallow and dandelion, and, greatest treat of all, he stumbles on a piece of chalk or a mouthful of delicious cinder, which, he knows by instinct, is the most sovereign remedy in the world for that hot, unpleasant sensation he has had all the morning at his stomach. 1149. It is a IiemarJcable Fact that, though everyone who keeps a pig knows how prone he is to disease, how that disease injures the quality of the meat, and how eagerly he pounces on a bit of coal or cinder, or any coarse, dry substance that will adulterate the rich food on which he lives, and by affording soda to his system, correct the vitiated fluids of his body—yet very few have the judgment to act on what they see, and by supplying the pig with a few shovelfuls of cinders in his sty, save the necessity of his rooting for what is so needful to his health. Instead of this, however, and without supplying the animal with what its instinct craves for, his nostril is sometimes bored with a red-hot iron, and a ring clenched in his nose to prevent rooting for what he feels to be absolutely necessary for his health ; and ignoring the fact that, in a domestic state at least, the pig lives on the richest of all food—scraps of cooked animal substances, boiled vegetables, bread and other items, given in that concentrated essence of aliment for a quadruped, called “ wash,” and that he eats to repletion, takes no exercise, and finally sleeps through all of the twenty-four hours in which he is not eating; and then, when the animal at last seeks for those medicinal aids which would obviate the evil of such a forcing diet, his keeper, instead of meeting his animal instinct by human reason, and giving him what he seeks, has the in- humanity to torture him by a ring, that, keeping up a perpetual “raw” in the pig’s snout, prevents his digging for those corrective drugs which would remove the evils of his artificial existence. 1150. Subject to so many Diseases, no domestic animal is yet more easily kept in health, cleanliness and comfort, and this without the necessity of 11 ringing,” or any excessive desire of the hog to roam, break through his sty, or plough up his pound. Whatever the kind of food may be on which the pig is being fed or fattened, a teaspoonful or more of salt should always be given