Boiled Neck of Mutton. 501 1009.— ROLLED LOIN OF MUTTON. (Fr.— Longe de Mouton Farcie.) (Very Excellent.) Ingredients.— About 6 lbs. of a loin of mutton, £ a teaspoonful of pepper, ^ teaspoonful of pounded allspice, £ teaspoonful of mace, 5 tea- spoonful of nutmeg, 6 cloves, forcemeat, No. 629, 1 glass of port, 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Hang the mutton till tender, bone it, and sprinkle over it pepper, mace, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg in the above proportion, all of which must be pounded very fine. Let it remain for a day, then make a forcemeat by recipe No. 629, cover the meat with it, and roll and bind it up firmly. Half bake it in a slow oven, let it grow cold, take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan ; flour the meat, put it in the gravy, and stew it perfectly tender. Now take out the meat, unbind it, add to the gravy wine and ketchup as above, give one boil, and pour over the meat. Serve with red-currant jelly ; and, if obtainable, a few mushrooms, stewed for a few minutes in the gravy, will be found a great improvement. Time.—1| hour to bake the meat, i| hour to stew gently. Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This joint will be found very nice if rolled and stuffed, as here directed.,, and plainly roasted. It should be well basted, and served with a good gravy and currant jelly. 1100.—BOILED NECK OF MUTTON. (Fr.—Collet de Mouton a I’Eau.) Ingredients.—4 lbs. of the middle or best end of the neck of mutton ; a little salt. Mode.—Trim off a portion of the fat, should there be too much, and if it is to look particularly nice, the chine bone should be sawn down, the ribs stripped halfway down, and the ends of the bones chopped off; this is, however, not necessary. Put the meat into sufficient boiling water to cover it; when it boils, add a little salt, and remove all the scum. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the water get so cool that the finger may be borne in it; then simmer very slowly and gently until the meat is done, which will be in about i-j hour, or rather more, reckoning from the time that it begins to simmer. Serve with turnips and caper sauce, No. 681, and pour a little of it over the meat. The turnips should be boiled with the mutton ; and., when at hand, a few carrots will also be found an improvement. These, however, if very large and thick, must be cut into long thinnish pieces, or they will not be sufficiently done by the