iriS Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. Sufficient for 18 or 24 cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2472. —DROP CAKES. Ingredients.—6 cupfuls of fine sugar, 2 cupfuls of flour, 1 cupful oi butter, 2 eggs, salt. Mode.—Beat the sugar and half the butter, beat the eggs, add them, and the remainder of the ingredients, for 15 minutes. Drop the mixture on buttered tins, and bake a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. c' Time.—% hour. Average Cost, 8d. Seasonable at any time. 2473. —DOUGHNUTS. Ingredients.—1 teacup of sour cream, 2 cups of sugar, 3 eggs, 8 cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mode.—Beat the sugar and eggs together. Dissolve the soda in a little warm water, stir it in the cream ; add the flour and a little ground spice, if preferred. Have a pan of lard boiling hot. Roll out the dough, cut in rings, and fry till brown. Time.—5 to 10 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. Seasonable at any time. 2474.-A NICE USEFUL CAKE. Ingredients.—J lb. of butter, 6 oz. of currants, £ lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of dried flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 1 oz. of candied peel. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; wash, pick, and dry the currants; whisk the eggs ; blanch and chop the almonds, and cut the peel into neat slices. When all these are ready, mix the dry ingredients together ; then add the butter, milk and eggs, and beat the mixture well for a few minutes. Put the cake into a buttered mould or tin, and bake it for rather more than i£ hour. The currants and candied peel may be omitted, and a little lemon or almond flavouring substituted for them ; made in this manner, the cake will be found very good. Time.—Rather more than i£ hour. Average Cost, is. 4d. 2475.—DESSERT CAKES. Ingredients.—£ lb. of flour, \ lb. of butter, 6 oz. of sifted sugar, 3 eggs. Mode.—Clarify the butter and beat the sugar in well; add the flour by degrees, then the eggs, still beating. Mix 'thoroughly, and bake in small tins for 8 or 10 minutes. dessert cakes. Time.—8 to io minutes to bake. Average Cost, IS. for this quantity.