Indian Mustard. 1039 in the boiling vinegar, after straining it from the spices. Put into wicle- mouthed bottles. Will keep for years if kept well corked. Seasonable at any time. Note.—A substitute for French mustard may be had by making 2 quarts of vinegar hot and pouring it over 6 oz. of salt, J lb. of scraped horseradish, \ oz. of sugar and half a clove of garlic. This should stand for 24 hours before it is strained and bottled. 2252.—A GOOD MUSTARD. (A. Soyer’s recipe.) Ingredients.—Mustard seed 1 part, weak wood vinegar 2 parts. Mode.—Pour the vinegar on the mustard seed and let them soak for a fortnight ; then grind the whole into a paste in a mill and put it into pots, then thrust a red-hot poker into each of the pots. Seasonable at any time. 2253.—INDIAN MUSTARD. (Fn—Moutarde k I’lndienne.) (An excellent Relish to Bread-and-Butter, or any Cold Meal.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of best mustard, i lb. of flour, £ oz. of salt, 4 shalots, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 4 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, £ bottle of anchovy sauce. Mode.—Put the mustard, flour and salt into a basin, and make them into a stiff paste with boiling water. Boil the shalots with the vinegar, ketchup, and anchovy sauce, for 10 minutes, and pour the whole, boiling, over the mixture in the basin; stir well, and reduce it to a proper thickness; put it into a bottle, with a bruised shalot at the bottom, and store away for use. This makes an excellent relish, and if properly prepared will keep for years. Mustard. (Fr.—Moutarde.)—Before the year 1729, mustard was not known at English tables. About that time an old woman, of the name ot Clements, residing in Durham, began to grind the seed in a mill, and to pass the flour through several processes necessary to free the seed from its husks. She kept her secret for many years to herself, during which she sold large quantities of mustard throughout the country, but especially in London. Here it was introduced to the royal table, when it received the approval of George X. From the circumstance of Mrs. Clements being a resident at Durham, it obtained the name of Durham mustard. In the county of that name it is still principally cultivated, and the plant is remark- mustard. able for the rapidity of its growth. It is the best stimulant employed to impart strength to the digestive organs, and, even in its previously coarsely-pounded state, it had a high reputation with our ancestors. 2254-READING SAUCE. Ingredients.—pints of walnut pickle, i£ oz. of sbalots, 1 quart of spring water, J pint of Indian soy, % oz. of bruised ginger, £ oz. of long 2 M