1538 Management of Nursery and Sick-Room. THE NURSERY GOVERNESS. 3449. A. nursery governess’s position in a household should be that of a lady, and not, as it too often happens to be, a situation where it is expected that a governess’s and nurse's duties are to be blended and performed by one person, at a salary far below a servant’s wages. At the present time there is scarcely any class so badly paid as nursery governesses, but the fault does not lie entirely with the employers. Too often the girls themselves are of an /nferior and ill-educated class, totally unfitted for the training of children, and really not worth the wages of a good servant, whose place they would be too proud to take. A governess should be, as she is sometimes termed, “a mother’s help,” and as such the mistress of the household should choose her from a rank similar to her own that is if she be of the middle or upper-middle class. No one expects the daughters of the aristocracy to take situations as nursery governesses, but there are plenty of well-educated, lady-like girls to be found a little lower in the social ladder who should be glad to earn their living in this manner. 3450. Treatment of Nursery Governess.—To the mistress of a household she should be as we have said, a mother’s help, and as such, should be treated accordingly. She has in many cases the duties that might fall to the eldest daughter, or the mistress herself, to perform, and others which they them- selves would shrink from should not be pressed upon her. If she be a lady and their equal, why should she not be treated as one? The advantage of good early teaching in such matters as speaking correctly, eating in a proper manner, learn- ing politeness, and other little requirements, when young, is of incalculable service to those who have the after training of children ; and it is not wise, for this reason, to take a girl of inferior rank and expect her to train the little ones to our own individual tastes. A nursery governess should not have to feel ashamed of her position in the household, or the lack of kindness or companion- ship, while her pay should be sufficient to provide for all moderate needs in the way of dress, &c., with just a little over for saving for a rainy day. 3451. Kindly encouragement should be given to the nursery governess who honestly and faithfully fulfils her duties, just as readily as we should accord it to a good servant; and she, very often having left a happy home to earn her living among strangers, must sometimes feel lonely; while, should she be an orphan without any near relatives to whom to turn for advice, she should, in the mistress of a household, find a friend from whom she can seek help and sympathy. 3452. The qualifications most necessary for a nursery governess are those of a love for children and a good temper. With these she can soon win the hearts of the little ones under her care and keep them happy while in her com- pany. It must be bad for both governess and children when these, or even one of these qualifications are lacking; and it would be far better to seek another post more congenial than one into which she cannot put heart, as well as hands and brain. But, independent of these two good qualities, a good nursery gover- ness must also have a good system of training children, a thorough knowledge of all she undertakes to teach them, and be a good manager. That she should be cleanly, neat and refined in manner and speech, goes withi mt saying ; for inas- much as the little ones are put in her care as a person of superior education to a nurse, it will be reasonably expected that she should give them a better moral training. Children are ready copyists, quick to pick up and use words or ways of those around them, specially those we are most anxious they should avoid ; and they are also quick to notice the injustice of being chidden for a fault that they see passed without comment in their elders.