Meat Juice. 1229 2765. Sickness and Nausea.—If the patient suffers from sickness and nausea, every food should be given iced, or as cold as possible, and in the smallest quantities, and it is a good plan to slip a tiny piece of ice into the patient’s mouth immediately after taking food. Milk may be kept on ice for a long time, or if no ice is at hand, set the jug in a tub of salt and water, or wrap a wet cloth round the jug and stand it in a draught outside the door. The slightest souring is sufficient to make milk disagree with a patient. 2766. Cooking Apparatus.—In keeping anything hot in the sick-room a Norwegian cooking apparatus is very useful. It is a box thickly padded with non-conducting material, and containing a double tin receptacle, the outer for hot water and the inner for beef-tea, or whatever has to be cooked or kept hot. The tin is filled with hot water, and retains the heat for many hours without evaporation or giving out any smell. 2767. JBeef-tea is the nurse’s great support. Directly a person is ill we give beef-tea, and we think that the more the patient swallows the sooner he must recover. Yet beef-tea is not a nourishing food, and, though sick people do exist upon it for a length of time, it appears to be more of a stimulant than a food properly speaking, and at any rate there is not more than half an ounce of solid in a whole pint of beef-tea, the rest being water. Wherever possible it should be given alternately or combined with other food. In,making beef-tea for a patient suffering from acute disease, no flavouring, salt, or spice should be added. It is very easy to add afterwards if it is needed, but the organs of taste are often in an abnormally sensitive condition, so that the tea already tastes too salt from the presence of saline matter in the meat, especially if it is made very strong in the hope of affording better nourishment. This does not apply to convalescents. As to skimming all the fat off, some few patients demand it, and it is at all times easy, but a little fat aids in digestion, and often makes the food slip down less painfully when deglutition is difficult. Beef-tea or milk must never be cooked in an iron saucepan. A jam-pot or wide mouthed bottle is always available. Many patients have derived great benefit from taking raw meat rubbed through a sieve, and served as sandwiches between bread and butter, or in a little hot beef-tea or Liebig. It must not be heated to boiling, or the meat would harden. 2768. Meat juice or raw beef-tea is often given to patients suffering from typhoid fever or gastric disorders. A recipe is given below. It is also useful in the wasting diseases of young children. There are many substitutes for beef-tea in the market. The best known is, perhaps, Liebig’s extract of meat. It is not to be classed among foods, as it contains little more than the salines and contrac- tions of the meat, but it is a most valuable stimulant and restorative, easily pre- pared and always at hand, and more harmless as well as more efficacious than the two popular stimulants—brandy-and-water and a cup of tea. Brand’s Extract is sold in tins and in sausage skins ; the latter form is much cheaper, and, unlike the tins, can be kept for a length of time after they are opened. Both these prepara- tions contain a certain amount of nourishment. Fluid meat, prepared by Messrs. Darby and Gosden, consists of lean meat liquified by artificial digestion and in a fit state for immediate absorption into the body. In severe illness it is a most valuable food, and is also used for nutrient enemata. Dr. Pavy recommends the following mixture when used for this purpose : 2 ozs. of white sugar, 6 ozs. of mucilage of starch or arrowroot, with 2 tablespoonfuls of the fluid meat. Beef peptonoids and peptonised beef-jelly are also most valuable preparations for the sick-room. Unlike beef-tea and beef extracts, which consist only of the juice of the meat, more or less perfectly extracted, they are the meat itself in a