602 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. Mode.—Truss the fowl as for boiling, lard the breast, put an onion inside it and braise it with herbs and vegetables, a few slices of lean ham or bacon, and about a pint of good stock. Boil the rice as for curry, moisten it with the strained liquor from the fowl, add the tomato sauce and cheese, and stir it thoroughly. Make a border round the dish, put the fowl in the middle and serve. The breast of the fowl must be browned in a hot oven or with a salamander if necessary. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 1287.—DUCKS AND RED CABBAGE. (Fr.—Canard au Choux.) Ingredients.—Remains of 2 ducks, | red cabbage, 2 oz. of butter, pepper, salt, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, £ pint of clear gravy. Mode.—Divide the ducks into nice-sized pieces and simmer very gently in the gravy for 20 minutes or longer. Wash the cabbage and cut it into very thin shreds, wash and drain again, then put it in a stewpan with the butter, some salt and pepper, and cover close. Shake the pan frequently while it is cooking, and if it is not moist enough add a tablespoonful of gravy. Let it stew for one hour or longer if necessary; when done pour the vinegar on it, lay it on a dish and arrange the duck upon it. Time.—20 minutes for the ducks ; 1 hour for the cabbage. Average Cost, without the ducks 10d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable, September to January. 1288.-DUCKS AND CARROTS. (Fr.—Canard a la Pur6e de Carottes.) Ingredients.—Cold duck, 2 lbs. of carrots, 2 oz. of butter, £ pint of clear gravy, salt, sugar. Mode.—Wash and scrape the carrots. Then put them on the fire in a pan with cold water and let them boil till soft, then drain and put them into a stewpan with the butter and mash them, adding half the gravy, some salt and pepper, and half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. When thoroughly incorporated, rub the carrots through a sieve into the stewpan and warm again. Meanwhile put the pieces of cold duck into a stewpan and let them get hot, then dish the carrot puree, put the duck on it, and pour the gravy round. Time.—i£ hour. Average Cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold duck. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable, September to January.