Washing and Boiling. WASHING TUB. r493 sheets and body-linen, being wanted to whiten in the morning, should be taken first; each article being removed in succession from the lye in which it has been soaking, rinsed, rubbed, and wrung, and laid aside until the tub is empty, when the foul water is drawn off. The tub should be again filled with lukewarm water, about 8o°, in which the articles should again be plunged, and each gone over carefully with soap, and rubbed. Novices in the art sometimes rub the linen against the skin ; more experienced washerwomen rub one linen surface against the other, which saves their hands, and enables them to continue their labour much longer, besides economising time, two parts being thus cleaned at once. After the first washing, the linen should be put into a second water, as 10 as the hand can bear it, and again rubbed over in every part, examining every part for spots not yet removed, which require to be again soaped over and rubbed till thoroughly clean ; then rinsed and wrung, the larger and stronger articles by two of the women; the smaller and more delicate arti- cles requiring gentler treat- ment. 3313. Boiling.—In order to remove every particle of soap, and produce a good colour, they should now be placed, and boiled for about an hour and half, in the cop- per, in which soda, in the proportion of a teaspoonful to every two gallons of water, has been dissolved. Some very careful laundresses put the linen into a canvas bag to protect it from the scum and sides of the copper. When taken out it should again be rinsed, first in clean hot water, and then in abundance of cold water, slightly tinged with blue, and again wrung dry. It should now be removed from the washing-house and hung up to dry or spread out to bleach, if there are con- veniences for it; and the earlier in the day this is done, the clearer and whiter will be the linen. 3314. Coloured muslins, cottons, and linens require a milder treat- ment; any application of soda will discharge the colour, and soaking all night1 even in pure water, deteriorates the more delicate tints. When ready for washing, if not too dirty, they should be put into cold water and washed very speedily, CLOTHES DRIER.