*632 Legal Memoranda. months ; so that it lakes twenty years to create a prescription, but only one year to destroy it. That is, if a road or path be totally closed for a year, and no pro- ceedings to resist the closing be commenced before the end of the year, the right of way ceases ; and, if the owner of an ancient light permits it to be blocked or obstructed for a year, and does not remove the obstruction, or take proceedings during that time, his prescription is destroyed. Also, if the owner of an ancient light permits the erection of a building to its detriment, and makes no remon- strance during the building operations, he cannot claim his prescription against such building when it is completed. Such are the general rules of prescription, but infinite varieties of circumstances are liable to modify any particular case, implied assent being sometimes assumed where there is no such intention. 3718. Jlent.—Rent is sometimes made payable, by special agreement, in ad- vance ; if so, it becomes due in advance, and can be immediately recovered accordingly. But such cases are very exceptional, the general rule being that rent is neither payable nor due until the end of a stated term, which may be a week or a month, hence constituting a weekly or monthly tenancy ; but the almost universal rule is for rent to be payable, for residential occupations, by the quarter, becoming due on the recognised quarter days. There is risk in paying rent in advance, unless it is expressly so stipulated; for, if a landlord receives rent before it is due, and subsequently suffers fore- closure of a mortgage on the property, the mortgagee can compel payment of the same rent over again, and, the original landlord being then probably insolvent, the tenant has no remedy. Rent is due at sunrise of the day on which it is expressed to be payable. If there be any obligation to make formal demand, it must be made before sunset of the same day. But the obligation to pay rent does not arise until midnight of that day, and the power of enforcing payment cannot be exercised until sunrise of the next day. A landlord is the only person who, with reference to a debt, can take the law into his own hands, and enforce payment without the intervention of any magis- terial or judicial authority. This exceptional power has the effect of rendering the landlord willing, in most cases, to forego payment for a month or so, because he can enter and recover, without notice, whenever he thinks proper. This power is so extreme that, though a landlord promise ever so solemnly, and even by deed, not to enforce payment, he is not legally bound by the promise ; and, though he take a bill for the rent, he can pass by the bill and proceed as though it were never drawn. A tenant in arrears is therefore entirely at the mercy of his landlord's caprice. 3719. Distress for Rent.—The ordinary mode of recovering arrears of rent is by distress, or entry and seizure of the tenant’s goods. To avoid this the tenant is legally entitled to depart with all his goods any time before sunrise of the day on which the rent becomes due, and the landlord has no further claim on such goods. During the same day, and until sunrise of the next day, the tenant is entitled to depart with all his goods, and the landlord cannot prevent it, but, in that case, or in case of any subsequent removal, the landlord can legally follow the goods, and seize them wherever he can find them, being entitled to break in for the purpose, any time after sunrise of the day after the rent becomes due. At sunrise of the next day after the rent becomes due the landlord is legally entitled to enter, and take possession of his tenant’sFgoods. This right of entry and seizure may be exercised on any day afterwards until the rent be paid, only that, in all cases, the right cannot be exercised for more than one year’s rent, and