CHAPTER XLIII. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON BEVERAGES, INCLUDING TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, WINES, LIQUEURS, CUPS & AMERICAN DRINKS. TEA, COFFEE AND COCOA 2634. Beverages are innumerable in their variety, and space does pot avail to treat of all in detail, but the ordinary beverages drunk in the British Isles may be divided into three classes : i. Beverages of the simplest kind, not effervescing nor fermented, generally infusions or decoctions of various substances. 2. Bever- ages, consisting of water containing a considerable quantity of carbonic acid. 3. Beverages containing alcohol in greater or less amount. Of the first class may be mentioned—water, toast-and-water, barley-water, eau sucre, lait sucre, cheese and milk whey, milk and water, lemonade, orangeade, sherbet, apple and pear juice, capillaire, vinegar and water, raspberry vinegar and water, tea, coffee and cocoa. Of the common class of beverages consisting of water impregnated with carbonic acid gas, we may name soda water, single and double, ordinary effervescing draughts, gingerbeer and the various mineral waters, natural and artificial. The beverages composed partly of fermented liquors, are hot spiced wines, bishop, egg-flip, egg-hot, ale-posset, sack-posset, punch, and spirits • and water. 2635. Water.—To whichever class our beverages belong, water is the basis of them all. Even our solid food contains more water than anything else; our drink often contains only a trace of flavouring and colouring matter. Nothing is of more importance to the housekeeper than to obtain an ample supply of sufficiently pure water. We say “ sufficiently pure,” for absolutely pure water, consisting only of two parts of hydrogen to one of oxygen, does not exist in nature; and when it is obtained by the distiller's art, is flat and distasteful to those who have not accustomed themselves to its use. Water, as we get it, is never pure; the thing is, that it must not contain impurities dangerous to health. Dissolved air and gases make it bright and sparkling : they are driven off by boiling, and hence the insipid taste and dull appearance of boiled water. What- ever water we drink, it once existed in the form of rain, and, falling on the surface of the earth, took up a variable quantity of whatever it fell upon, and also dis- solved something of the soil it trickled through. Some rocks, like granite, are insoluble; some, as for example chalk, are readily soluble, especially in water containing carbonic acid gas, which rain washes down out of the air. So, while