MEDICINE CHEST. THE DOCTOR. The doses of medicine prescribed in these pages are those intended for adults, unless otherwise stated. CHAPTER LXXIII. HOW TO KEEP WELL. 3518. Introductory.—Health of body and mind is a blessing of ines- timable value, and, as the greatest of all earthly means of happiness, the efforts of all wise persons should be directed towards its attainment. Disease is simply a departure from perfect health, and this being so, it is necessary that the attention be directed to the more important agencies which act upon the individual, pro- ducing disturbance of, or departure from, absolute health, in order that he may be the more able to combat them successfully. It is obvious that causes of disease are any of the innumerable external influences which act upon our bodies, dis- turbing the natural condition of our organs, or the balance of the functions which they perform ; as, for example, excess or privation of the air we breathe, the water we drink, the food we eat, variations in the direction of superabundance or deficiency of the light, the heat and the electricity which modify the nutrition of our bodies. 3519. Heat and Cold as Causes of Disease.—These are two of the most prolific disturbers of our perfect, and therefore healthy, life, and being so powerful and incessant in their working, they demand our most watchful care in order to guard against serious or fatal injury. Exposure to intense heat, especially from the direct rays of the sun, is liable to produce sunstroke, which every summer proves to be rapidly fatal, and the faint- ness, giddiness and insensibility which accompany it have been shown by ingenious experiments to be the immediate effect of heat upon the brain substance. Exposure to the sun’s rays should be abstained from in very hot weather between the hours of n and 3 o’clock; or if one is obliged to be out, a wet handkerchief a sponge, or a handful of green leaves worn in the crown of the hat is a useful precaution against sunstroke.