T respass. 1627 years certain, and any agreement which is executed before the commencement of the intended three years is void, because it extends over more than the prescribed period. In such a case, an annual tenancy is created by the first payment and acceptance of rent, as though no agreement had been made, though it is rare for any question to arise upon that point, both parties being usually content. Whether such agreement be void or not, the continuance of the tenancy after the three years creates a continuing tenancy from year to year. Tenancy from year to year, otherwise called an annual tenancy, is almost always by written agreement. The rent being payable quarterly, and the tenancy being terminable only at the same period of the year at which it com- menced, unless the agreement expressly prescribes otherwise. The following form amply suffices: Memorandum cf agreement made this ioth* day of September, 1890, between A. B„ of of, , • ,The, said A- B. agrees to let, and the said C. D. agrees to take, the dwelling-house and premises known as No. 99, High Street in the county of from the 29th day of December instant, from year to year,* at the yearly rent of £ .payable quarterly. The said A. B. agrees to maintain the whole of the ex- ternal part of the buildings in a reasonably sound and weatherproof condition, as at present, and tbe said C. D. undertakes to preserve and deliver up the internal part of the premises in good excepted Tal> 6 tepair' aS 3t present- reasonable wear and tear, and fire, storm and tempest Signed by the parties | Witness desirable, not essential. It is usual to append to the agreement a list of minor dilapidations, the tenant being liable at the end of the term for anything additional not arising from fair wear and tear. For instance, if the tenant allows a stove to rust until it is so disfigured or fragile as to be useless, the tenant is responsible. The landlord must deliver the key if applied for, but is not bound to do so otherwise. Neglect of the tenant to procure the key will not absolve him from the obligation to pay rent and take care of the premises, even though he never take possession. The agreement binds the heirs, executors, administrators and assigns of both parties, though there be no provision to that effect. It also secures to the tenant uninterrupted enjoyment as against the landlord. Trespass by anyone else is for the tenant to obtain a remedy for. 3708. Trespass upon open fields is very difficult to deal with. The tres- passer must first be ordered off, and if he does not go, the tenant or his repre- sentative (no one else) is entitled to remove him by force. If the trespasser resists in the least, he can be prosecuted, not for the trespass, but for an assault, or for robbery, if he takes so much as a branch or flower. More than necessary force subjects the person who resorts to it to proceedings for assault. The same rule applies to trespass upon any part of the premises, but every person found in or upon any dwelling-house, warehouse, coach-house, stable, or outhouse, or in any yard or garden included in the enclosure of a house, is liable to punishment as a rogue and vagabond, unless he can justify his presence when found. A right of trespass accrues when it is necessary for the trespasser to escape from some danger or is acting in self-defence. 3709. Dogs.—The owner of a dog, as a general rule, is not liable for any person being bitten by the dog, unless the owner knew that the dog had previously .. /Jf.waiin‘enti°n be. ‘° agme. for three years, the date must be September 29th, or later, and ior three years must be substituted for “ from year to year.” .LI*™?’ s]orm and tempest be not included, the tenant must make good severe injury or flcsTgmeTo thTcontrary SuCh deStrUCtion pms an end t0 the Clancy, unless the par-