Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 872 1854. —BAKED RICE PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 small teacupful of rice, 4 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of fresh butter, 2 oz. of beef marrow, £ lb. of currants, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy nutmeg, £ lb. of sugar, the rind of ^ lemon. Mode.— Put the lemon-rind and milk into a stewpan, and let it infuse till the milk is well-flavoured with the lemon ; in the meantime, boil the rice in water until tender, with a very small quantity of salt, and, when done, let it be thoroughly drained. Beat the eggs, stir to them the milk, which should be strained, the butter, marrow, currants, r ud remaining ingredients; add the rice, and mix all well together. Line the edges of the dish with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake for about three- quarters of an hour in a slow oven. Slices of candied peel may be added at pleasure, or Sultana raisins may be substituted for the currants. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter pudding, when fresh fruits are not obtainable. Bice, with proper management in cooking it, forms a very valuable and cheap addition to our farinacious food, and in years of scarcity has been found eminently useful in lessening the con- sumption of flour. When boiled, it should be so managed that the grains, though soft, should be as little broken and as dry as possible. The water in which it is dressed should only simmer, and not boil hard. Very little water should be used, as the grains absorb a great deal, and, conse- quently, swell much; and if they take up too much at first, it is difficult to get rid of it. Baking it in puddings is the best mode of preparing it. 1855. —BAKED RICE PUDDING. (Plain and Economical; a nice Pudding for Children.) Ingredients.—1 teacupful of rice, 2 tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 quart of milk, £ oz. of butter or 2 small tablespoonfuls of chopped suet, J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mode.—Wash the rice, put it into a pie-dish with the sugar, pour in the milk, and stir these ingredients well together; then add the butter cut up into very small pieces, or, instead of this, the above proportion of finely-minced suet; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake the pud- ding in a moderate oven, from to 2 hours. As the rice is not previously cooked, care must be taken that the pudding be very slowly baked, to give plenty of time for the rice to swell, and for it to be thoroughly done. Time.—to 2 hours. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable at any time. 1856.—RICE PUDDING. Ingredients.—Take 12 teacupfuls of milk, 1 of rice, of sugar, a tea- spoonful of butter, a little salt, flavour with vanilla.