Lemon Pudding. 849 1798.—LEMON PIE. Ingredients.—The juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup of sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, milk to fill pie-plate. If milk is not handy, water with a small lump of butter in it is a good substitute. Mode—Line a medium-sized plate or dish with nice pastry, pour in the custard, bake until done. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, spread smoothly over the pie when baked, and brown lightly in the oven. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 5d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1799.-BAKED LEMON PUDDING. Ingredients.—The yolks of 4 eggs, 4 oz. of pounded sugar, 1 lemon, } lb. of butter, puff-crust. Mode.—Beat the eggs to a froth ; mix with them the sugar and warmed butter; stir these ingredients well together, putting in the grated rind and strained juice of the lemon-peel. Line a shallow dish with puff-paste ; put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for 40 minutes ; turn the pudding out of the dish, strew over it sifted sugar, and serve. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, 10d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1800.—LEMON PUDDING. (.Another Mode.) Ingredients.—10 oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 pints of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 1 lemon, £ lb. of pounded sugar, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Bring the milk to the boiling point, stir in the butter and pour these hot over the bread-crumbs ; add the sugar and very finely minced lemon-peel; beat the eggs, and stir these in with the brandy to the other ingredients ; put a paste round the dish, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Time.—4 hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. Lemon.—The lemon is a variety of the citron. The juice of this fruit makes one of our most popular and refreshing beverages—lemonade, which is gently stimulating and cooling, and soon quenches the thirst. It may be freely partaken by bilious and sanguine temperaments; but persons with irritable stomachs should avoid it, on account of its acid ■qualities. The fresh rind of the lemon is a gentle tonic, and when dried ■and grated, is used in flavouring a variety of culinary preparations. Lemons appear in company with the orange in most orange-growing •countries. They were only known to the Romans at a very late period, ■and at first were used only to keep the moths from their garments: their acidity was unpleasant to them. In the time of Pliny, the lemon was hardly known otherwise 'than as an excellent counter-poison.