8o6 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. Nutritious Qualities of Flour.—The gluten of grain and the albumen of vegetable juices are identical in composition with the albumen of blood. Vegetable caseine has also the composition of animal caseiue. The finest wheat-flour contains more starch than the coarser ; the bran-'of wheat is proportionably richer in gluten. Rye and rye-bread contain a substance resembling starch-gum (or dextrine, as it is called) in its properties, which is very easily converted into sugar. The starch of barley approaches in many properties to cellulose, and is therefore less digestible. Oats are particularly rich in plastic substances ; Scotch oats are richer than those grown in England or in Germany. This kind of grain contains in ils ashes, after deduction o< the silica ot the husks, very nearly the same ingredients as are found in the ashes of the juice of flesh. Fine American flour is one of the varieties which is richest in gluten, and is consequently one of the most nutritious, 1689.—TO GLAZE PASTRY. To glaze pastry, which is the usual method adopted for meat or raised pies, break an egg, separate the yolk from the white, and beat the former for a short time. Then, when the pastry is nearly baked, take it out of the oven, brush it over with this beaten yolk of egg, and put it back in the oven to set the glaze. 1690.—TO ICE PASTRY. To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for fruit tarts and sweet dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg on a plate, and with the blade of a knife beat it to a stiff froth. When the pastry is nearly baked, brush it over with this, and sift over some pounded sugar; put it back into the oven to set the glaze, and in a few minutes it will be done. Great care should be taken that the paste does not catch or burn in the oven, which it is very liable to do after the icing is laid on. 1691.-ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (Fr.—Tartelettes d’Amandes au Citron.) Ingredients.—| lb. of sweet almonds, 4 bitter ones, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, the rind of £ lemon, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 3 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds smoothly in a mortar, with a little rose or spring water; stir in the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the butter, which should be warmed ; add the grated lemon-peel and juice, sweeten, and stir well until the whole is thoroughly mixed. Line some patty-pans with puff- paste, put in the mixture, and bake for 20 minutes or rather less, in a quick oven. Time.—20 minutes, or rather less. Average Cost, lod. Sufficient for about 12 cheesecakes. almond and blossom. Seasonable at any time. Almonds.—Almonds are the fruit of the Amygdalus communis, and are cultivated throughout the whole of the South of Europe, Syria, Persia, and Northern Africa ; but England is mostly supplied with those which are grown in Spain and the South of France. They are distinguished