Directions for Dressing Fish. 205 Scallops are a cheap and not unpalatable food. Whelks, periwinkles, cockles, and limpets are eaten in enormous numbers by the poorer classes, but are seldom cooked otherwise than by boiling. 421. Reptiles as Food.—The green turtle is the only reptile that we appreciate as a food, though many reptiles are eaten in different parts of the world. Turtles sometimes weigh six or seven hundred pounds and are imported into and kept in this country alive. Sun-dried turtle, sold in pieces, is much cheaper than, and a good substitute for, fresh turtle. Tinned turtle is also sold, and extract of turtle, recommended for invalids. These preparations can be bought in small quantities, end are within the reach of many who could not procure fresh turtle soup. The edible frog (rana esculenta) is thought much of in many parts of Europe, but has never been appreciated by English people. Only the hind legs are eaten. American terrapin soup is made of a small land turtle. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR DRESSING FISH. 422. In Dressing Fish of any kind, the first point to be attended to is to see that it be perfectly clean. It is a common error to wash it too much ; as by doing so the flavour is diminished. If the fish is to be boiled, a little salt and vinegar should be put into the water, to give it firmness, after it is cleaned. In consequence of the amount of oil they contain, the liver and roes of fish take longer to cook than the flesh, and if they are not cooked separately they should be put into the saucepan before the fish. Fish should be put into warm water, and set on the fire to cook very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Hot water should not be poured on to the fish, as it is liable to break the skin ; if it should be necessary to add a little water whilst the fish is cooking, it ought to be poured in gently at the side of the vessel. The fish-plate may be drawn up, to see if the fish be ready, which may be known by its easily separating from the bone. It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will become woolly. The fish-plate should be set crossways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving, and a cloth laid over the fish, to prevent its losing its colour. The exact temperature of the water depends on the sort of fish ; if it is too hot the skin breaks ; and if it is cold much of the flavour is lost. Fish can scarcely cook too slowly; steaming is often better than boiling. Fish to be fried or broiled must be dried in a nice soft cloth, after it is well cleaned and washed. If for frying, rub it with flour, brush it over with egg, and sprinkle it with some fine crumbs of bread. If done a second time with the eggs and bread, the fish will look so much the better. A sheet of white paper must be placed to receive it, that it may be free from all grease. It must also be of a beauti- ful colour, and all the crumbs appear distinct. Butter gives a bad colour ; lard and clarified dripping are most frequently used ; but oil is the best and cheapest. The fish should be put into the fat or oil when as hot as possible without burning, and there should be a sufficiency of this to cover it. When fish is broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and laid on a very clean gridiron, which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet, to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled over or before a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky ; and not too near, that it may not be scorched. Fish may also be baked, stewed and made into soups. In choosing fish it is well to remember that it is possible it may be fresh and yet not good. In this work, rules are given for the choice of each particular