323 German Sauce. 711. —FISH SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Piquante Froide.) Ingredients.—1^ oz. of cayenne, 2 tablespoonfuls of walnut ketchup, 2 tablespoonfuls of soy, a few shreds of garlic and shalot, 1 quart oi vinegar. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a large bottle, and shake well every day for a fortnight. Keep it in small bottles well sealed, and in a few days it will be fit for use. Average Cost, for this quantity, is. 712. —GENEVESE SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Gen6v6se.) (For Salmon, Trout, &c.) Ingredients.—1 small carrot, a small faggot of sweet herbs, includ- ing parsley; 1 onion, 5 or 6 mushrooms (when obtainable), 1 bay-leaf, 6 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butter, 1 glass of sherry, pint of white stock, No. 278 ; thickening of butter and flour, the juice of half a lemon. Mode.—Cut up the onion and carrot into small rings, and put them into a stewpan with the herbs, mushrooms, bay-leaf, cloves and mace; add the butter, and simmer the whole very gently over a slow fire until the onion is quite tender. Pour in the stock and sherry, and stew slowly for 1 hour. Melt butter and flour in a clean saucepan, add the strained sauce, stir it over the fire until perfectly smooth and mellow, add the lemon-juice, give one boil, when it will be ready for table. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average Cost, is. 3d. per pint. Sufficient, half this quantity for two slices of salmon Sage. (Fr.—Sauge.)—This was originally a native of the south of Europe, but it has long been cultivated in the English gardens. There are several kinds of it, known as the green, the red, the small-leaved, SACt. and the broad-leaved balsamic. In cookery, its principal use is for stuffings and sauces, for which purpose the red is the most agreeable, and the green the next. The others are used for medicinal purposes. 713. —GERMAN SAUCE. (Fr— Sauce Allemande.) Ingredients.— £ pint of sauce tournee, No. 786; the yolks of a eggs. Mode.—Put the sauce into a stewpan, heat it, and stir to it the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, which have been previously strained. Let it just simmer, but not boil, or the eggs will curdle; and after they are added to the sauce, it must be stirred without ceasing. This sauce is a general favourite, and is used for many made-dishes. Time.-—1 minute to simmer. Average Cost, 6d.