The Food of the Sheep. 473 amount of domestication bestowed on the animal. The generic peculiarities of the sheep are the triangular and spiral form of the horns, al ways larger in the male when present, but absent in the most cultivated species; having sinuses at the base of all the toes of the four feet, with two rudimentary hoofs on the fore- legs, two inguinal teats to the udder, with a short tail in the wild breed, but of varying length in the domesticated ; have no incisor teeth in the upper jaw, but in their place a hard elastic cushion along the margin of the gum, on which the animal nips and breaks the herbage on which it feeds ; in the lower jaw there are eight incisor teeth and six molars on each side of both jaws, making in all 32 teeth. 1041. The great Object of the Grazier is to procure an animal that will yield the greatest pecuniary return in the shortest time ; or in other words, soonest convert grass and turnips into good mutton and fine fleece. All sheep will not do this alike ; some, like men, are so restless and irritable, that no system of feed- ing, however good, will develop their frames or make them fat. And as nothing militates against the fattening process so much as restlessness, the chief wish of the grazier is to find a dull, indolent sheep, one who, instead of frisking himself, leaping his wattles, or even condescending to notice the butting gambols of his silly companions, silently fills his paunch with pasture, and then, seeking a shady nook, indolently and luxuriously chews his cud with closed eyes and blissful satisfaction, only rising when his delicious repast is ended, to proceed silently and without emotion to repeat the pleasing process of laying in more provender, and then returning to his dreamy siesta to renew the delightful task of rumination. Such animals are said to have a lymphatic temperament, and are of so kindly a nature that on good pasturage they may be said to grow daily. The Leicestershire breed is the best example of this lymphatic and contented animal, and the active Orkney, who is half goat in his habits, of the restless and unprofitable. The rich pasture of our midland counties would take years in making the wiry Orkney fat and profitable, while one day’s fatigue in climbing rocks after a coarse and scanty herbage would probably cause the actual death of the pampered and short-winded Leicester. 1042. Food.—The more removed from the nature of the animal is the food on which it lives, the more difficult is the process of assimilation, and the more complex the chain of digestive organs ; for it must be evident to all that the same apparatus that converts flesh into flesh is hardly calculated to transmute grass into flesh. As the process of digestion in carnivorous animals is extremely simple, these organs are found to be remarkably short, seldom exceeding the length of the animal's body; while, where digestion is more difficult, from the unassimilating nature of the aliment, as in the ruminant order, the alimentary canal, as is the case with the sheep, is twenty-seven times the length of the body. The digestive organ in all ruminant animals consists of four stomachs, or, rather a capacious pouch, divided by doorways and valves into four compartments, called in their order of position, the Paunch, the Reticulum, the Omasum, and the Abomasum. When the sheep nibbles the grass, and is ignorantly supposed to be eating, he is, in fact only preparing the raw material of his meal, in reality only mowing the pasture, which as he collects, is swallowed instantly, passing into the first receptacle, the paunch, where it is surronded by a quantity of warm saliva, in which the herbage undergoes a process of maceration or softening, till, the animal having filled this compartment, the contents pass through a valve into the second or smaller bag—the reticulum, when, having again filled the paunch with a reserve, the sheep lies down and commences that singular process of chewing the cud, or, in other words, masticating the food he has collected. By the operation of a certain set of muscles, a small quantity of this softened food from the reticulum,