I2o6 Recipes for Beverages. 2691.—MALT WINE. Ingredients.—5 gallons of water, 28 lbs. of sugar, 6 quarts of sWeet* wort, 6 quarts of tun, 3 lbs. of raisins, £ lb. of candy, 1 pint of brandy. Mode.—Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes; skim it well and put the liquor into a convenient-sized pan or tub. Allow it to cool; then mix it with the sweet-wort and tun. Let it stand for 3 days, then put it into a barrel | here it will work or ferment for another 3 days or more, then bung up the cask, and keep it undisturbed for 2 or 3 months. After this, add the raisins (whole), the candy and brandy, and, in 6 months’ time, bottle the wine off. Those who do not brew may procure the sweet- wort and tun from any brewer. Time.—To be boiled 10 minutes; to stand 3 days after 1 ferment three days ; to remain in the cask 2 months before the added ; to bottle 6 months after. Seasonable.—Make this in March or October. Note.—Sweet-wort is the liquor that leaves the mash of malt boiled with the hops ; tun is the new beer after the whole of t operation has been completed. 2692.-MEAD WITHOUT FRUIT. Ingredients.—Allow 3^ lbs. of honey to every gallon of water. Mode.—Boil the above for 1 hour, skimming very carefully. Drain the skimmings through a sieve, returning this to the pan. When almost cold stir in a teacupful of yeast for 9 gallons. Put in a cool place. Bottle in a year’s time. Time.—15 months. Average Cost, is. 6d. per gallon. Seasonable at any time. 2693.—MEAD. Ingredients.—pint of sugar, £ pint of molasses, 2 0z. of tartaric acid, 1 oz. of essence of sassafras. Mode.—Pour on to this 3 pints of boiling water; let it stand until luke-warm. Add tho. tartaric acid, and essence of sassafras; when cold, bottle. When required for a drink, put a tablespoonful of the mead in a tumbler; fill two-thirds full with cold water; stir in a little soda, and drink while foam- ing. Very delicious in warm weather. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable in hot weather. LYTHIA WATER. mixing; to raisins are before it is the brewing