Rhubarb and Orange Jam. 1019 portion ; mince the lemon-rind very finely, add it to the other ingredients, and place the preserving-pan by the side of the fire; keep stirring to prevenjt the rhubarb from burning, and when the sugar is well dissolved, put the pan more over the fire, and let the jam boil until it is done, taking care to keep it well skimmed and stirred with a wooden or silver spoon. Pour it into pots, and cover down with oiled and egged papers. Time.—If the rhubarb is young and tender, £ hour, reckoning from the time it simmers equally; old rhubarb, 1J to i| hour. Average Cost, 5d. to 7d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—About I pint of sliced rhubarb to fill a lb. pot. Seasonable from February to April. 2207.—RHUBARB AND ORANGE JAM. (To resemble Scotch Marmalade.) Ingredients.—1 quart of finely-cut rhubarb, 6 oranges, i| lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Peel the oranges; remove as much of the white pith as pos- sible, divide them, and take out the pips ; slice the pulp into a preserving- pan, add the rind of half the oranges cut into thin strips, and the loaf sugar, which should be broken small. Peel the rhubarb, cut it into thin pieces, put it to the oranges, and stir all together over a gentle fire until the jam is done. Remove all the scum as it rises, put the preserve into pots, and, when cold, cover down. Should the rhubarb be very old, stew it alone for a quarter of an hour before the other ingredients are added. Time.—J to 1 hour. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Seasonable from February to April. 2208.—RASPBERRY AND CURRANT, OR ANY FRESH FRUIT SALAD. (A Dessert Dish.) Mode.—Fruit salads are made by stripping the fruit from the stalks, piling it on a dish, and sprinkling over it finely-pounded sugar. They may be made of strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any of these fruits mixed; peaches also make a very good salad. After the sugar is sprinkled over, about 6 large tablespoonfuls of wine or brandy, or 3 table- spoonfuls of liqueur, should be poured in the middle of the fruit; and, when the flavour is liked, a little pounded cinnamon may be added. In helping the fruit, it should be lightly stirred, that the. wine and sugar may be equally distributed