Sheep's Tongues alia Nivernese. 1303 2965.—TURBAN OF FILLET OF VEAL. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of even-shaped, tender fillet of veal, 2 slices cl fat bacon, 3 slices of scarlet tongue, a few truffles, f lb. of fowl force- meat, a few slices of toast, a bouquet of herbs, 1 egg, a little clarified butter. Mode.—Cut the fillet into 12 slices about a quarter of an inch thic?; and of equal size, a little narrower at one end. Lard 4 of the piece: with thin strips of the bacon, 4 with truffles, and 4 with the scarlet tongue. In a plate that will stand the fire, make a round base of the toast, heap on it the forcemeat, mixed with herbs and truffles chopped very fine, and, with a knife dipped in the white of an egg and lukewarm water, shape the mound with a hollow at the top. Salt the slices of veal slightly, and lay them, in alternate colours, round the mound, turning in top and bottom, and taking care to hide the stuffing. When the turban is shaped, baste it with clarified butter, cover it over first with a thin slice of fat bacon and then with buttered paper. An hour before serving place in a hot oven. In half an hour remove the paper and fat, and glaze the turban. Gar- nish the centre with a ragout of sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms and cockscombs, placing one glazed sweetbread as a crown on the top. Serve with sauce espagnole. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 5s. 6a. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. 2966.—SHEEP’S TONGUES ALLA NIVERNESE. Ingredients.—6 sheep’s tongues, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley, x pint of stock, 6 small lettuces, six carrots. Mode.—Cleanse the tongues thoroughly, and boil gently for two hours in water, with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and chopped parsley When done, remove the skin and let them cool, taking care to preserve their shape. Then lay them in a stewpan with reduced stock, and shortly before serving bring to a boil and glaze. Place them in a dish so as to form a crown, putting between each tongue a lettuce stuffed with forcemeat, and a carrot cut into the shape of a heart, all separately cooked. Fill up the centre space with any vegetable preferred, stewed in a little stock and butter. Time— z\ hours. Average Cost,4s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year.