604 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. ii pint of young green peas, boiled separately, and put in the ragout, very much improve this dish. Time.—20 minutes to roast the duck ; 20 minutes to stew it. Average Cost, from 3s. to 3s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to January; ducklings from May to August. The Buenos Ayres Duck.—The Buenos Ayres duck is of East Indian birth, and is chiefly valuable as an ornament; for we suppose one would as soon think of picking a Chinese teal for luncheon, or a gold fish for breakfast, as to consign the handsome Buenos Ayres to the spit. The prevailing colour of this bird is black, with a metallic lustre, and a gleaming of blue steel about its breast and wings. Varieties of Ducks. — Naturalists count nearly a hundred different species of ducks ; and there is no doubt that the intending keeper of these harmless and profitable birds may easily take his choice from amongst twenty different sorts. There is, however, so ltttle difference in the various members of the family, either as regards hardiness, laying or hatching, that the most incompetent fancier or breeder may indulge his taste without danger of making a bad bargain. In connection with their value for table, light coloured ducks are always of milder flavour than those that are dark-coloured, the white Aylesburys beiog general favourites. Ducks reared exclusively ov vegetable diet will have a whiter and more delicate flesh than those allowed to feed on anim4 offal; while the flesh of birds fattened on the latter food will be firmer than that of those which have only partaken of food of a vegetable nature. BUENOS AYRES DUCKS. 1291.—ROAST DUCKS. (Fr.—Canards Rotis.) Ingredients.—A couple of ducks; sage and onion stuffing, No. 638 ; a little flour. Mode.—To insure ducks being tender, never dress them the same day they are killed ; and if the weather permits, they should hang a day or two. Make a stuffing of sage and onion sufficient for one duck, and put it into the body, not in the neck as for a fowl or turkey; leave the other bird unseasoned, as the flavour is not liked by everybody. Having trussed and stuffed them, put them down to a brisk clear fire, and keep them well basted the whole of the time they are cooking. A few Ininutes before serving, dredge them lightly '-ith flour, to make them froth and look plump ; and when the steam draws towards the fire, send them to table hot and quickly, with a good brown gravy poured round but not over the ducks, and a little of the same in a tureen. When in season, green peas should invariably accompany this dish. Time.—Full-grown ducks from % to 1 hour; ducklings from 25 to 35 minutes. Average Cost, from 3s. to 3s. 6d. each.