Little Teas. 1445 3205.—FAMILY TEAS. Monday.—Slices of bread and butter, and slices of thinly-cut bread on separate but corresponding dishes ; the latter are for marmalade or jam, or honey spreading. There are many persons who, whilst they are very fond of these sweet things, consider them quite nauseous with the addition of butter ; where there are children, it is a wasteful, expensive method of feeding to allow buttered bread to be spread with jam, &c. A standard family cake, one of the “ come and cut me ” kind, nice enough for the grown-ups, and suitable for the children. A rack of dry, crisp toast, and little glass dishes filled with preserves (these are a great ornament to a tea-table), potted meat. Coffee and tea, or one only of these beverages. TUESDAY.—The same dishes, respecting bread and bread and butter; the family cake, which will still be presentable, perhaps; two dishes of diflerent kinds of home-made small cakes; two dishes of whatever fruit is in season and reasonable in price ; a box of sardines. Coffee or tea, or both. Wednesday.—Bread, and bread and butter, muffins and crumpets, if in sea- son ; a dish of stewed prunes or stewed pippins; cake of some sort; shell-fish, if in season ; marmalade. Tea and coffee, &c. THURSDAY.—Bread and bread and butter, buttered toast in rounds, kept crisp and hot; a scalded haddock ; seed cake, jam. Tea and coffee. FRIDAY.—-Bread and bread and butter, a dish each of plain and sweet buns, potted meat' or potted lobster, dry toast, honey. Tea, coffee, &c. Saturday.—Bread and bread and butter, cake, fresh or dried fruit (two dishes), milk scones, hot biscuits or cakes, preserve. Tea, coffee, &c. Sunday.—Bread and bread and butter, dry toast, cake or cakes, potted meats, shrimps, sardines, jam, marmalade, or honey, or all three. Coffee and tea, &c. Note.—It should be remembered in respect of the “ family tea," no less than in that of the family meal of a more substantial kind, that vayiation of the dishes should be studied. I remember very well indeed a poor little well-fed child saying once, in answer to a query as to what he liked for breakfast and dinner best, “ Is there anything besides bed an' milk an’ yice in the world, because they is hozzible ? ” Just so is it with the grown-up : the frequent, everlasting one or two dishes forming the chief present- ments are very likely, even to them, no less than “ hozzible.” Endeavour to provide to-day something a little different from yesterday, and the result will be a keen appre- ciation of your attention to them on the part of the persons, whoever they may be, who habitually sit at your table. 3206.—LITTLE TEAS FOR THE FAMILY. Monday.—Tea, bread and butter, toast, potted beef. Tuesday.—Tea, bread and butter, tea-cakes, watercress. Wednesday.—Tea, brown bread and butter, toast, cake. Thursday—Tea, bread and butter, dry toast, sardines. Friday.—Tea, bread and butter, cake, preserve. SATURDAY.—Tea, brown bread and butter, potted meat, radishes, Sunday.—Tea, bread and butter, cake, marmalade.