Particulars of Patent Kitchener. 47 automatically screens the ashes as they fall, the dust going through the grating into the lower drawer The cinders which remain in the upper drawer are returned to the fire until completely consumed, nothing being left but the incom- bustible portion of the fuel. (4.) Doors of Fire-grate.—In front of the fire are two doors, one above the other, completely closing in the fire when shut. With both of these shut, and the little door in the hood-shaped cover of the ash-pan open, a very strong draught will be produced and the fire will burn fiercely, even with inferior fuel, producing great heat. . ( 5.) Slow Combustion.—The small door in the top of the ash-pan is made to open outwards and downwards; when closed, it may be slid endwise, so as to leave a small slit open. The effect of this is to convert the kitchener into a slow-combus- tion range, which may be regulated to burn at any given rate, according to the amount of air admitted. . (6.) All-night Fires.—By this arrangement the fire may be kept burning all night with a very small consumption of fuel, an inestimable advantage, especially in winter time, saving the dirty and disagreeable work of lighting the fire on a frosty morning, besides keeping the kitchen warm, the water hot. and the pipes from freezing. ( 7.) Cost of Fuel.—The result of a week’s trial by Mr. Shaw, of Leeds, of a 4b in. by 54 in. range, supplied to him showed that the coals consumed in a week cost only 7fd., or very little more than id. per day ; a very favourable experience, when compared with an experiment in cooking with gas at an exhibition held in the Town Hall, Leeds, when §d. worth of gas was consumed in roasting a leg ot mutton weighing 10 lbs. 14 ozs., which was considered a good result. ( 8.) Gas Ring Burner.—However, as gas is always a useful adjunct in cooking, a duplex ring burner is placed in the plate-rack in such a way as not to interfere with anything else, so that water may be boiled, eggs or ham cooked, &c., at any time when the fire may not happen to be in use. With both rings burning, 5 lbs. of water, or, in other terms, half a gallon, in an 8-in. copper pan, at an initial tem- perature of 46° Fahrenheit, will boil in 16 minutes with a consumption of 3^ cubic Jeet of gas. , ( 9.) Convertibility into Open Range.—In the illustration of tnis kitchener the range is shown as a close one; but by opening the door at the back, lifting off the fire cover, and opening the doors in front, the range instantly becomes an open one, similar to any Yorkshire range, the operation being sooner done than described. The following are the dimensions of the kitchener itself, and its different parts in the three best sizes in which it is made, with prices for each size of range, singly or with bath boiler, which is a desirable adjunct to the range. It is also made 66 inches and 72 inches wide, and may be had fitted with tiles in the back and side covings, at prices which will be supplied on application. Total Width ... Baking Oven ... Roasting Oven Fire Hot Plate Prices Bath Boiler, extra First Size. Second Size. Third Size. Inches. Inches. Inches. 48 54 60 16x21 is x 21 20X23 14 x 19 16 x 16 18x15 8 16 12 27x14 31x14 35x16 £15 os. 0d. £18 oj. 0d. K> O O ft. £ 1 7s. 6d. £1 12s. 6d. £1 17s. 6d. The range can be had fitted with an L boiler, instead of, and in place of, the lower oven shown to the left in the illustration, at the prices named above for the range complete.