Frying. 369 past, although some little variety has been introduced into its manufacture, by the addition of grooves to the bars, by means of which the liquid fat is carried into a small trough. One point it is well to bear in mind—viz., that the gridiron should be kept in a direction slanting towards the cook, so that as little fat as possible may fall into the fire. It has been observed, that broiling is the most difficult manual office the general cook has to perform, and one that requires the most unremitting attention ; for she may turn her back upon the stewpan or the spit, but the gridiron can never be left with impunity. The revolving gridiron, shown in the engraving, possesses some advantages of convenience which will be at once apparent. PRYING. 832. —A very favourite Mode of Cooking may be described as boiling in fat or oil. Substances dressed in this way are generally well received, for they introduce an agreeable variety, possessing, as they do, a peculiar flavour. By means of frying, cooks can soon satisfy many requisitions made on them, it being a very expeditious mode of preparing dishes for the table, and one which can be employed when the fire is not sufficiently large for the purposes of roasting and boiling. The great point to be borne in mind in frying is, that the liquid must be hot enough to act instantaneously, as all the merit of this operation lies in the instantaneous carbonization or charring of the body placed in the fat. It may be ascertained if the fat is heated to the proper degree, by cutting a piece of bread and dipping it in the frying-pan for five or six seconds ; and if it be firm and of a dark brown when taken out, put in immediately what you wish to pre- pare ; if it be not, let the fat be heated until of the right temperature. This having been effected, moderate the fire, so that the action may not be too hurried, and that by a continuous heat the juices of the substance may be preserved, and its flavour enhanced. 833. —The Philosophy of Frying consists in this, that liquids subjected to the action of fire do not all receive the same quantity of heat. Being differ- ently constituted in their nature, they possess different "capacities for caloric." Thus, you may, with impunity, dip your finger in boiling spirits of wine ; you would take it very quickly from boiling brandy, yet more rapidly from water : whilst the effect of the most rapid immersion in boiling oil need not be told. As a consequence of this, heated fluids act*differently on the sapid bodies presented to them. Those put in water, dissolve, and are reduced to a mass; the result being bouillon, stock, &c. Those substances, on the contrary, treated with oil, harden, assume a more or less deep colour, and are finally carbonized. The reason of these different results is, that, in the first instance, water dissolves and extracts the interior juices of the alimentary substances placed in it; whilst, in the second, the juices are preserved, for they are insoluble in oil. It is to be especially remembered, in connection with frying, that all dishes fried in fat or oil, of which there should be plenty, should be placed before the fire on a piece of paper, or sieve reversed, and there left for a few minutes, so that any greasy moisture may be removed. Things well fried are not greasy, however, but quite dry. 834. The Utensils used for the Purposes of Frying are iron saucepans or stewpans, frying-pans and frying-baskets, and these are of various sizes; and, for small and delicate dishes, such as collops, cutlets, pancakes, &c„ the saute pan, of which we give an engraving, is used. SAUTE-PAN.