Haunch of Venison. 687 with brown or orange gravy, watercresses, and a cut lemon. The remains of teal make excellent hash. Time.—From 9 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, IS. 6d. each. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to February. 1416.-ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. (Fr —Quartier de Chevreuil Roti.) Ingredients.—Venison, coarse flour-and-water paste, a little flour. Mode.—Choose a haunch with clear, bright and thick fat, and the cleft of the hoof smooth and close; the greater quantity of fat there is, the better quality will the meat be. As many people object to venison when it has too much hunt gout, ascertain how long it has been kept by running a sharp skewer into the meat close to the bone; when this is withdrawn, its sweetness can be judged of. With care and attention, it will keep good a fortnight, unless the weather is very mild. Keep it perfectly dry by wiping it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains, and sprinkle over powdered ginger or pepper, as a preventative against the fly. When required for use, wash it in warm water, and dry it well with a cloth, butter a sheet of white paper, put it over the fat, lay a coarse paste, about half an inch in thick- ness, over this, then a sheet or two of strong paper. Tie the whole firmly on to the haunch with twine, and put the joint down to a strong close fire; baste the venison im- mediately, to prevent the paper and string from burning, and continue this operation, without intermission, the whole of the time it is cooking. About 20 minutes before it is done, carefully remove the paste and paper, dredge the joint with flour, and baste well with butter until it is nicely frothed, and of a nice pale-brown colour; garnish the knuckle-bone with a frill of white paper, and serve with a good strong, but unflavoured, gravy, in a tureen, and currant jelly; or melt the jelly with a little port, and serve that also in a tureen. As the principal object in roasting venison is to preserve the fat, the above is the best mode of doing so where expense is not objected to; but in ordinary cases, the paste may be dispensed with, and a double paper placed over the roast instead; it will not require so long cooking without the paste. Do not omit to send very hot plates to table, as the venison fat so soon freezes: to be thoroughly enjoyed by epicures, it should be eaten on hot- water plates. The neck and shoulder may be roasted in the same manner. ROAST HAUNCII OF VENISON.