Management of a Household Stock-Pot. 135 the day before. Remember, as was before pointed out, that the more these are broken, the more gelatine you will have. The best way to break them up is to pound them roughly in an iron mortar, adding from time to time, a little water to prevent them getting heated. It is a great saving thus to make use of the bones of meat, which, in too many English families, we fear, are entirely wasted ■ for it is certain, as previously stated (No. 264), that two ounces of bone contain as much gelatine (which is the nutritive portion of stock) as one pound of meat In their broken state tie them up in a bag, and put them in the stock-pot • adding the gristly parts of cold meat, and trimmings, which can be used for no other purpose It improves both colour and flavour to fry some of the meat and vegetables but no flour must be used unless the soup is to be thick. If, to make up the weight you have received from the butcher a piece of mutton or veal, broil it slightly over a clear fire before putting it in the stock-pot. and be very careful that it does not contract the ieast taste of being smoked or burnt. For making clear soup it is essential that everything should be spotlessly clean. Nothing is° more certain to make it thick than dirty vegetables or meat. VIII. Add now the Vegetables, which, to a certain extent, will stop the boiling of the stock. Wait, therefore, till it simmers well up again, then draw it to the side of the fire, and keep it gently simmering till it is served, preserving as before said, your fire always the same. Cover the stock-pot well, to prevent evaporation ; do not fill it up, even if you take out a little stock, but only enough to cover it. After six hours’ slow and gentle simmering, the stock is done • but generally speaking, the longer it boils the better it will be. °rffi.rKt g°°,d br0th °-r sauce’ that excellence in cookery depends- o i *P ^ 1 „ ,*S!S of the 9ulinarY art is entrusted to negligent or ignorant reisons, and the stock is not well skimmed, but indifferent results will be obtained. The stock will never the nronkrnd Whe" ,l °^ed t0 b,e clarified, it is deteriorated bo.h in qualify and flavour In the proper nunagement of the stock-pot an immense deal of trouble is saved, inasmuch as one ^k„Vm ?^mal1 nmner’ =er'i5sufor al1 P^POscs. Above all things, the greatest economy con! s.stent with exce lence, should be practised, and the price of everything which enters the kilchen correctly ascertamed. The theory of this part of Household Management mayappeartriflin" but its praclice is extensive, and therefore it requires the best attention. r PP - 271. MANAGEMENT OF A HOUSEHOLD STOCK-POT. In all cooking operations it happens that there is a constant demand for halt a pint of stock to make gravy or for a few pints of stock to form the basis ?} a S0UP- ^eclPes for making excellent stocks are given among those tnat tollow. There is white stock or blond de veau, strong brown stock and consomme which is nothing more or less than double stock, or stock made’ of a second edmon of Iresh meat, using the first stock instead of water. It remains to be shown how a careful cook can always have stock at hand without any aug- mentation of the butcher’s bill. The first consideration is the material required for the stock-pot. A lgester with a screwed down lid is good. An earthenware pot with cover, such as ib used lor pot au feu is also good. A good sized iron saucepan with a good !“ may serve. A copper pan, tinned inside, with a tap at the bottom to draw off the stock, is best of all, but rare. The ingredients should be everything in the way ot meat, bones, gravies and flavouring that would be otherwise wasted, bhankbone of mutton, gravy left when the half eaten leg was moved to another .li, ’ tr'mmmgs of beefsteak that went into a pie, remains of gravies, bacon nnds and bones, poultry giblets, bones of roast meat, scraps of vegetable, cooked or uncooked, with a due allowance of water and seasoning. Nothing is too insignificant to be useful. The only thing to be remembered is that if flour or potatoes go in, the soup wall never be clear. The time for cooking is limitless. Such a pot in most houses should be alway