Advantages of Homoeopathy. 1617 3676. The Practice Supported.—Following the course that has been adopted in the consideration of the principle of homoeopathy, let us now see what reasons can be adduced in favour of small doses versus large doses in addition to those which have just been given. It is a well known fact that children have sometimes got hold of a bottle of homoeopathic globules or pilules and have swallowed the bottleful without inconvenience or any palpable effect, and because no harm has resulted from this wholesale consumption of medicine that is represented to be possessed of great power to cure certain ailments it has been argued that because it has done no harm in the cases to which reference has been made, it is equally impossible for it to do any good. But homoeopathic medicine be it remembered, will only act homceopathically, that is to say it will only produce the desired effect in persons who are suffering from any disorder which may be counteracted by its use. The children in question were in no way predisposed by morbid symptoms to yield to the influence of the medicine, which if taken even in single globules, was of sufficient strength to benefit any one who really needed it, but was not sufficiently strong, even collectively, to produce any effect on a healthy person, larger doses being required to produce medicinal effects than are required to counteract and cure morbid symptoms. 3677- Preparation of Homoeopathic Medicines.—These are supplied in two forms, namely in globules or pilules and in tinctures, the latter torm being considered preferable. Soluble drugs are prepared homceopathically by what is termed succussion or shaking, that is to say a mode of treatment which effects the dispersion of a drug through liquid, generally alcohol, until the drug is equally diffused through the whole of the liquid ; and insoluble drugs by rituration, or rubbing up in some vehicle, generally sugar of milk, until the whole ot the vehicle used is equally and thoroughly permeated by it. Thus it is that every individual globule or drop in medicine homoeopathically prepared is of equal strength with its fellows. The potency of such minute subdivisions is ascribed to the extension of surface brought about by succussion or trituration, as the ca_se may be. It is argued that the active power of any drug is enormously increased by this so called extension of surface, and as a piece of gold leaf one inch square may be hammered out into a thinner leaf ten inches square, its surface being thus increased a hundredfold, so mercury which may be taken in large quantities almost with impunity, because in too great bulk to be active in proportion to its bulk, has its active properties marvellously increased by rubbing it up with some vehicle so as to procure its equal subdivision or, in other words, extension of surface. It is, then, from this extension of surface that homoeopathic medicines derive their power and active properties. Evidence of this is obtained trom the fact that the nutritive properties of the soil are brought into a better condition for their reception and assimilation as plant food by plants, by the action of the frost—God’s plough—which breaks up the clods into minute pieces, setting free its various constituents by subdivision of matter. Now what is this but increasing the active properties of the soil by extension of surface. 3678. Advantages of Homoeopathy.—Broadly stated, allopathists tor the most part give copious doses of nauseous drugs which disgust the adult patient and terrify children, and by severity of action often tend to reduce bodily strength. Homceopathists, on the contrary, give medicines which, although they are sufficiently powerful to produce the effect that is desired, are in no way calculated to induce weakness or interfere with any susceptibility peculiar to the patient, and have the merit of being perfectly tasteless. Surely these are good points sufficient to induce every parent who has viewed with pain and sorrow the prolonged reluctance of children to swallow ordinary medicine, and every one who has any respect for his own palate and sense of taste, to give the system