General Observations on Creams, Jellies, &c. 1917. To make Creams.—For whipping and making sweets it is usual to ask for double cream, that is thick cream that has stood on the milk for twenty-four hours instead of twelve. Thin cream with milk mixed in it will not whip to a froth. The colder it is the better it whips, in warm weather it is apt to turn to butter. We have also spoken of cream in the chapter on milk and butter. What is understood by creams is something different. They are cream, or milk, or some preparation of custard, variously flavoured and garnished and generally stiffened with gelatine to turn out of a mould, so that they come naturally into the same chapter with jellies, which are solutions of gelatine or isinglass in water, with wine, fruit, or other additions. 1918. Isinglass anil Gelatine.—The preparation of all these dishes has been very much simplified and cheapened since the introduction of prepared gelatine, which is now used in the place of calfs foot or fish bladder. Isinglass is the purest form of gelatine ; but while chemically there is little difference between the two, practically, the difference between the best and inferior varieties of both articles is most marked. In former times Russian isinglass, which should be the sounds only or swimming-bladders of the sturgeon, was in general use; but its high price, when of good quality, brought into commerce not only the inferior membranes, but also bladders and membranes of other fishes, &c.— notably those from Brazil and the East Indies—as cheap imitations and substi- tutes. The uncertain strength of these raw products, which were simply scraped and washed, rolled and cut up, led to the invention of the Patent Refined Isin- glass, which differs from all others in that it is a cooked article, and of uniform strength and purity, tasteless and entirely free from scent, and that it dissolver, immediately in any warm liquid. The patentee of this preparation is Swinborne. Gelatine is prepared from the skin and bones of animals. No article of commerce requires more careful selection of material, or such nice and cleanly preparation to insure a wholesome product. Vegetable jelly, or pectin, is a distinct substance, existing in fruits and vegetables. It, like gelatine, possesses the property of setting to a jelly when cold, but it has nothing more in common with animal jelly. 1919. Nourishment in .Telly,—Much has been written on the subject of gelatine. Held at one time in high estimation as a food, it was afterwards con- sidered of no value because in itself it would not sustain life; but, subjected to this test, nearly every useful and desirable delicacy would have to be condemned, and it cannot with justice be applied to gelatine any more than to many articles we daily consume. Abroad, no less an authority than Liebig pronounced against it, but the gelatine he condemned was chiefly of foreign manufacture, and pre- pared chemically from bones by the use of acids, sulphur, &c. On the other hand, in England, our great chemist, the celebrated Professor Brande, F.R.S., was careful to draw the distinction between good and bad, and, deeming these inferior productions unwholesome, he confined his testimony to the merits and nutritious qualities of Swinborne’s Calves’ Feet Gelatine, the manufacture of which he inspected in all its details and thoroughly approved of. 1920. The Clearing of Jelly consists in removing any particles of in- soluble matter that may have been added as flavouring, as well as every trace of albumen. Clear jelly tastes no better than thick, it is merely better in appear- ance. It is of the two less nourishing, so that we have recommended persons to save themselves the trouble ol clearing in some cases. The rationale of clearing is as follows:—Raw albumen is partially soluble in, and can be mixed with, water. When such a solution is heated to a temperature of i6o° Fahrenheit, the albumen coagulates, and at a temperature of boiling water