656 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 1363.—VOL-AU-VENT OF CHICKEN. (Fr.—Vol-au-Vent de Volaille.) Ingredients.—1 large fowl, 4 lb. of butter, £ pint of cream, 1 egg, J lb. of flour, 1 lemon, cayenne, salt, nutmeg and mace. Mode.—Cut the fowl (after it is ready for cooking) into joints, which again divide; blanch them in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes; take them out and put them in cold water to render them white. Put into a sauce- pan the trimmings, neck and legs of the fowl with the water in which the joints were blanched, and the seasoning, and simmer gently for rather more than 1 hour. In another saucepan put 2 oz. of butter and the pieces of fowl, dredging them with flour; then add the gravy, thickened with a little flour, and simmer for half an hour. When quite tender and well done lift out the fowl into another saucepan, skim and strain the gravy, add more seasoning if required, thicken with the cream, and pour it over the fowl. The vol-au-vent case of pastry is made as follows : Put the flour in a bowl, and put into it the egg well beaten stirred to a quarter of a pint of water, and the lemon juice strained; mix this into a paste as lightly as possible, and laying it on a slab make a hole, and put in the butter, pre- viously squeezed in a cloth. Leave it in a cool place for an hour, then roll it out 4 times, leaving it the last time rather more than one and a balf inches in thickness. Cut it to the size wanted with a vol-au-vent cutter, and with a small knife mark out a second round about three quarters of an inch from the edge, and bake in a tin for about three quarters of an hour. If the oven is not equally hot all round the vol-au-vent must be turned about that it may rise equally. When the case is baked, carefully remove all the centre part and fill with the fowl and gravy, and serve as quickly as possible. Time.—ii hour to cook the fowl. Average Cost, 5s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1364—LARK PIE. (Fr.—Pate aux Mauviettes.) Ingredients.—A few thin slices of beef, the same of bacon, 9 larks, flour. For stuffing: 1 teacupful of bread-crumbs, £ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, 1 egg, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of chopped shalot, \ pint of weak stock or water, puff-paste. Mode.—Make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, minced lemon-peel, parsley, and the yolk of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together; roll the larks in flour, and stuff them. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with a few slices of beef and bacon; over these place the larks, and season with salt, pepper, minced parsley and chopped shalot, in the above proportion.