692 Recipes for Cooking Game. to England’s rural scenery a new element of beauty, and to English tables a fresh viand of the choicest character. A practical solution of this interesting question was made by Viscount Hill, at Hawkestone Park, Salop, in January, 1859. On that occasion a magnificent eland, an acclimated scion of the species whose native home is the South African wilderness, was killed for the table. The noble beast was thus described:—“ He weighed 1,176 lbs. as he dropped; huge as a short-horn, but with bone not half the size; active as a deer, stately in all his paces, perfect in form, bright in colour, with a vast dewlap, and strong-sculptured horn. This eland in his lifetime strode majes- tic on the hill-side, where he dwelt with his mates and their progeny, all English-born, (ike himself.” Three pairs of the same species of deer were left to roam at large on the picturesque slopes throughout the day, and to return to their home at pleasure. “ Here, during winter, they are assisted with roots and hay, but in summer they have nothing but the pasture of the park ; so that, in point of expense, they cost no more than cattle of the best description. Travellers and sportsmen say that the male eland is unapproached in the quality of his flesh by any ruminant in South Africa; that it grows to an enormous size, and lays on fat with as great facility as a true short-horn; while in texture and flavour it is infinitely superior. The lean is remarkably fine, the fat firm'and delicate. It was tried in every fashion—braised brisket, roasted ribs, broiled steaks, filet saute, boiled aitchbone, &c.—and in all gave evidence of the fact, that a new meat of surpassing value had been added to the products of the English park. When we hear such a gratifying account of the eland, it is pleasing to record that Lord Hastings has a herd of the Canadian wapiti, a herd of Indian nylghaus, and another of the small Indian hog-deer ; that the Earl of Ducie has been successful in breeding the magnificent Persian deer. The eland was first acclimated in England by the late Earl of Derby, between the years 1835— 1851, at his menagerie at Knowsley. On his death, in 1851, he bequeathed to the Zoological Society his breed of elands, consisting of two males and three females. Here the animals have been treated with the greatest success, and from the year 1853 to the present time the females have regularly reproduced, with scarcely any loss. 1420.-ROAST WIDGEON. Ingredients.—Widgeons, a little flour, butter. Mode.—These are trussed in the same manner as fowls for roasting, but must not be kept so long before they are dressed. Put them down to a brisk fire ; flour and baste them continually with butter, and, when browned and nicely frothed, send them to table hot and quickly. Serve with brown gravy made by recipe No. 614, and a cut lemon. Time.—J hour; if liked well done, 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. each. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to February. 1421.—ROAST WOODCOCK. (TV.—B6casses Roties.) Ingredients.—Woodcocks, butter, flour, toast. Mode.—Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trails are, by epicures, considered a great delicacy. Pluck and wipe them well outside; truss them with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs ; skin the neck and head, and bring the beak round under the wing. Place some slices of toast in the dripping-pan to catch the trails, allowing a piece of toast for each bird. »Roast before a clear fire from 15 to 25 minutes; keep them well basted, and flour and froth them nicely. When done, dish the pieces of toast with the birds upon them,.. ROAST WOODCOCK.