9 Daily Duties. Visiting. alteration and re-making, which always results when sewing is done with so great facility and pleasure—this education alone often makes all the difference between a costly and an economical wardrobe. Not only is it a good thing to give this training to young girls, but it also behoves their mothers to instruct them as they get old enough in the arts of housekeeping and cookery, of which it is so essential that they should have a practical knowledge. 21. Luncheon.—The duties we have spoken of having been performed, the hour of luncheon will have arrived. This is a very necessary meal between an early breakfast and a late dinner, as a healthy person, with good exercise, should have a fresh supply of food once in four hours. It should be a light meal; but its solidity must, of course, be in some degree proportionate to the time it is intended to enable you to wait for your dinner, and the amount of exercise you take in the meantime. At this time, also, the servants’ dinner will be served. In those establishments where an early dinner is served, that will, of course, take the place of the luncheon. In many houses, where a nursery dinner is provided for the children about one o clock, the inistress and the elder portion of the family usually make their luncheon at the same time from the same joint, or whatever may be provided. A mistress will arrange, according tc circumstances, the serving of the meal; but the more usual plan is for the lady of the house to have the joint brought to her table, and afterwards carried to the nursery. But, if circumstances a/'e nc>t strongly against the arrangement, the children of the house may take their dinner with the mistress. It is highly conducive to the good health and proper behaviour of children to have their principal meal in the company of their mother and other members of the family, as soon as they are able to feed themse'ves. Many little vulgar habits and faults of speech and manner are avoided by this companii nship. The mother will also judge of their health by their appetite, and see that their food is properly cooked and served, ana suited to them. Children, too, who are accustomed to the society of ladies at their meals will show no awkwardness or shyness at the entrance of a stranger, or when they are staying from home. The nurse, likewise, bv this plan is released, for a short period, from the care of her little charges, and, while she enjoys her dinner with her iellow-sei vants, the “ waiting on the nurse,” a great objection with many housemaids, is avoided. 22. Visiting.—After luncheon, morning calls and visits may be made and received. These may be divided under three heads : those of ceremony, friend- ship, and congratulation or condolence. Visits of ceremony or courtesy, which occasionally merge into those of friendship, are to be paid under various circum- stances. Thus, they are uniformly required after dining at a friend’s house, or after a ball, picnic, or any other party. These visits should be short, a stay of from fifteen to twenty minutes being quite sufficient. When other visitors are announced, it is well to retire as soon as possible, taking care to let it appear that their arrival is not the cause. When they are quietly seated, and the bustle of their entrance is over, rise from your chair, taking a kind leave of the hostess, and bowing politely to the guests. Should you call at an inconvenient time, not having ascertained the luncheon hour, or from any other inadvertence, retire as soon as possible, without, however, showing that you feel yourself an intruder. It is not difficult for any well-bred or even good-tempered person to know what to say on such an occasion, and, on politely withdrawing, a promise can be made to call again, if the lady you have called on appear really disappointed. 23- Visits of Friendship need not be so ceremonious as those of ceremony. It is, however, requisite to call at suitable times, and to avoid staying too long if your friend is engaged. The courtesies of society should ever be maintained, even in the domestic circle and amongst the nearest friends. During these visits the manners should be easy and cheerful, and the subjects of con- versation such as may be readily terminated. Serious discussions or arguments are to be altogether avoided, and there is much danger and impropriety in expressing opinions of those persons and characters with whom, perhaps, there is but a slight acquaintance. (See 6, 7, and 9.) It is not advisable at any time to take favourite dogs info another lady’s drawing-room, for many persons have an absolute dislike to such animals; and besides this, there is alwavs a chance of a breakage of some article occurring, through their leaping and bounding here and there, sometimes very much to the fear and annoyance of the hostess. Her little children also