2042 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. 2259.—A GOOD STORE SAUCE. Ingredients.—2 wineglassfuls of port, 2 ditto of walnut ketchup (No. 2266), 4 ditto mushroom ketchup (2263), 4 anchovies, 2 shalots, 1 table- spoonful of cayenne pepper. Mode.—Pound the anchovies in a mortar, then boil all the ingredients together for half an hour. When cold put into well-corked bottles. It will keep excellently over a year. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 2s. per pint. 2260. -CAMP KETCHUP. Ingredients.—2 quarts of strong old beer, 1 quart of white wine, £ lb. of anchovies, 3 oz. of peeled shalots, £ 0z. of grated nutmeg, ditto mace, ditto sliced ginger. Mode.—Put the ingredients on the fire in a saucepan, and stir them till they are reduced one-third. Bottle next day with the spice and shalots. Time.—About i| hour. Average Cost, is. 8d. per quart. Seasonable at any time. 2261. -GRAPE CATSUP. Ingredients.—5 lbs. of ripe grapes, lbs. of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and pepper, \ teaspoon- ful of salt. Mode.—Boil the grapes in enough water to prevent burning, strain through a colander, add the other ingredients, and boil until a little thickened. Bottle, and cork and seal. Seasonable.—Make this from August to October. 2262.— MUSTAPHA, OR LIVER KETCHUP. Ingredients.—1 beef liver, 1 gallon of water, 1 oz. of ginger, 1 oz. of allspice, 2 oz. of whole black pepper, 2 lbs. of salt. Mode.—Roll the salt, and well rub it into a very fresh beef liver, and place it in a vessel that will not crush it. Turn and rub it thoroughly for 10 days. Then mince it into small dice, and boil in a gallon of water, closely covered, until reduced to three quarts. Then strain through a sieve, and let it settle till next day. Add the pepper, allspice and ginger, and boil slowly until further reduced to three pints. When cold, bottle and keep well corked. Time.—12 days. Average Cost, 7d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This recipe was forwarded by a correspondent to the Editress, for the new edition, as being a most excellent ketchup.