8 The Mistress. be served, at which all the family should be punctually present, Unless tllneSS, Of other circumstances, prevent. After breakfast is over, it will be well for the mistress to make a round of the kitchen and other offices, to see that all are in order, and that the morning’s work has been properly performed by the various domestics. The orders for the day should then be given; and any questions which the domestics desire to ask, respecting their several departments, should be answered, and any special articles they may require handed to them from the store-closet. In those establishments where there is a housekeeper, it will not be necessary for the mistress, personally, to perform the above-named duties. If a mistress observe slack or slovenly manners in her servant, she should call the attention of the servant to the unsatisfactory performance of her duties. Notice should be taken of the very first appearance of inattention or omission, so that the servant may know that her mistress’s eye is quick to detect the least disorder, and be aware that the least falling off in properly doing her work will not be permitted. A small fault unnoticed will quickly grow, and what might have been easily remedied in the outset will become difficult to eradicate, if permitted to increase and strengthen. 20. After this General Superintendence of her servants, the mistress will probably have a certain number of letters to write, possibly some marketing or shopping to do, besides numberless small duties which are better done early in the day, such as arranging the flowers for drawing-room and dinner-table, &c. ; while if she be the mother of a young family there may be some instruction to give them, or some of their wardrobes to inspect, and needlework to be done; should there be any time left it would be well to devote it to reading, or to some amusing recreation. “Recreation," says Bishop Hall, “is intended to the mind as whetting is to the scythe, to sharpen the edge of it, which would otherwise grow dull and blunt. He, therefore, that spends his whole time in recreation is ever whetting, never mowing; his grass may grow and his steed starve; as, con- trarily, he that always toils, and never recreates, is ever mowing, never whetting, labouring much to little purpose. Vs good no scythe as no edge. Then only doth the work go forward when the scythe is so seasonably and moderately whetted that it may cut, and so cut, that it may have the help of sharpening.” Where the mistress makes her own and her children’s clothes, it is necessary for her to possess a sewing machine—necessary because time is money. With the help of this useful invention, a lady can, with perfect comfort, make and mend every article used by herself and children, and do a great deal towards repairing and making her husband’s clothes, and this without labour to herself, and at no expense beyond the first outlay. She can do all this without neglect- ing the duty she owes to herself of serious reading and recreation. In many homes are to be found two sewing machines, one treadle and one hand, and undoubtedly it is far more convenient to possess them for the reason that while a large and heavy machine should have its place in a work-room, or one in which large pieces of work, plain sewing or dressmaking, can be allowed, a little hand one can be carried from room to room and used for small articles in either dining or usual sitting-rooms. A very useful addition to an ordinary sewing machine is a flap-board, which, when required, can be set up and used for dresses or large articles, such as quilts and sheets. For skirts it is invaluable, as it can be passed through them, and spares all the tumbling and crushing that it is otherwise almost impossible to avoid. A treadle machine works more quickly than a hand machine, but it is as well to remember that a treadle cannot be worked many hours daily without possible injury to the worker; while a hand machine is as harmless, or more so, than sewing with needle and cotton. A lock-stitch machine is preferable to a chain- stitch for general family use. The assistance of so helpful an instrument is invaluable in every home, especially to a mother of daughters. The education in the arts of cutting out and fitting,