494 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. io84.—“ YESTERDAY’S MEAT” DISH. Ingredients.—Cold roast beef, or mutton, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs, gravy, pickles. Mode.—Cut the meat into trim thin slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip into gravy, then into bread-crumbs, and spread over the slices some chopped pickles; moisten slightly with gravy and vinegar, then heat in the oven or before the fire for 20 minutes. Serve with sippets of toasted bread or potato balls. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 4rf. without the meat. Seasonable at any time. The Golden Fleece. —The ancient fable of the Golden Fleece may be thus briefly told : — Phryxus a son of Athamus, King of Thebes, to escape the persecutions of his stepmother Ino, paid a visit to his friend .Fetes, King of Colchis. A ram, whose fleece was of pure gold, carried the youth through the air in a most obliging manner to the court of his friend. When safe at Colchis, Phryxus offered the ram on the altars of Mars, and pocketed the fleece. The king received him with great kindness, and gave him his daughter Chalciope in marriage; but, some time after, he murdared him in order to obtain possession of the precious fleece. The murder of Phryxus was amply revenged by the Greeks. It gave rise to the famous Argonautic expedition, undertaken by Jason and fifty of the most celebrated heroes of Greece. The Argonauts recovered the fleece by the help of the celebrated sorceress Medea, daughter of .Fetes, who fell desperately in love with the gallant but faithless Jason. In the story of the voyage of the Argo, a substratum of truth probably exists, though overlaid by a mass of fiction. The ram which carried Phryxus to Colchis is by some supposed to have been the name of the ship in which he embarked. The fleece of gold is thought to represent the immense treasures he bore away from Thebes. The alchemists of the fifteenth century were firmly convinced that the Golden Fleece was a treatise on the trans- mutation of metals, written on sheepskin. 1085.—HARICOT MUTTON. (Fr.—Haricot de Mouton.) Ingredients.—4 lbs. of the middle or best end of the neck of mutton, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 3 onions, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup or Harvey’s sauce. Mode.—Trim off some of the fat, cut the mutton into rather thin chops, and put them into a frying-pan with the fat trimmings. Fry of a pale brown, but do not cook them enough for eating. Cut the carrots and turnips into dice, and the onions into slices, and slightly fry them in the same fat that the mutton was browned in, but do not allow them to take any colour. Now lay the mutton at the bottom of a stewpan, then the vegetables, and pour over them just sufficient boiling water to cover the whole. Give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently until the meat is tender. Skim off every particle of fat, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and a little ketchup, and serve. This dish is very much better if made the day before it is wanted for table, as the fat can be so much more easily re- moved when the gravy is cold. This should be particularly attended to, as it is apt to be rather rich and greasy if eaten the same day it is made. It should be served in rather a deep dish.