436 Recipes for Cooking Veal. 972.—STEWED BREAST OF VEAL AND PEAS. (Fr.—Poitrine de Veau aux Petits Pois.) Ingredients.—Breast of veal, 2 oz. of butter, a bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley; 2 blades of pounded mace, 2 cloves, 5 or 6 young onions, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 6 allspice, £ teaspoonful of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of salt, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, green peas. Mode.—Cut the breast in half, after removing the bone underneath, and divide the meat into convenient-sized pieces. Put the butter into a frying-pan, lay in the pieces of veal, and fry until a nice brown colour. Now place these in a stewpan with the herbs, mace, cloves, onions, lemon-peel, allspice and seasoning; pour over them just sufficient boiling water to cover the meat; well close the lid, and let the whole simmer very gently for about two hours. Strain off as much gravy as is required, thicken it with butter and flour, add the remaining ingredients,, skim well, let it simmer for about ten minutes, then pour it over the meat. Have ready some green peas, boiled separately ; sprinkle these over the veal, and serve. It may be garnished with forcemeat balls, or rashers of bacon curled and fried. Instead of cutting up the meat, many persons prefer it dressed whole; in that case, it should be half roasted before the water, &c., are put to it. Time.—2| hours. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Breeding of Calves.—The forwarding of calves to maturity, whether intended to be reared for stock or brought to an early market as veal, is always a subject of great importance, and requires a considerable amount of intelligence in the selection of the best course to adopt for either end. When meant to be reared as stock, the breeding should be so arranged that the cow should calve about the middle of May. As our subject, however, has more immediate reference to the calf as meat than as stock, we shall confine our remarks to the mode of pro- cedure adopted in the former case; and here, the first process adopted is that of weaning; whioh consists in separating the calf entirely from the cow, but, at the same time, rearing it on the mother’s milk. As the business of the dairy would be suspended if every cow were allowed to rear its young, and butter, cheese and cream become desiderata—things to be desired, but not possessed-a system of economical husbandry becomes necessary, so as to retain our dairy pro- duce, and yet, for some weeks at least, nourish the calf on its mother’s milk, but without allow- ing the animal to draw that supply for itself: this, with the proper substituted food on which to rear the young animal, is called weaning. 973 —VEAL CAKE. (Fr.—Gateau de Veau.) (A Convenient Dish for a Picnic.) Ingredients.—A few slices of cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley; a little pepper, good gravy or stock. Mode,—Cut off all the brown outside fro pi the veal and cut the eggs