t92 Recipes for Soups. Pluck the tails off the crayfish, remove the trail and take the flesh from the tail in one unbroken piece. Put the shells into a mortar and pound them with the brown bread ; then put them in with the vegetables, and simmer twenty minutes; strain through a tammy. Put into a clean saucepan the two stocks, season with cayenne and salt. Mix in a basin the yolks and the cream, pour on to it the boiling soup, strain this into the saucepan and cook till the soup thickens. Put the pieces from the tail into a tureen, and pour the soup oyer. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 6s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 393-—CRAYFISH SOUP. (Fr.—Potage bisque d’Ecrevisses.) Ingredients.—40 crayfish, 2 onions, i middling-sized carrot, 10 sprays of parsley, rather more than $ pint of rich stock, No. 272, 2 quarts of stock, No. 280, 2 oz. of butter, 4 02. of flour, 1 pint of thick cream. Mode.—Clean the crayfish, place them in a stewpan with the onions, carrot, parsley and rich stock; let them simmer for 10 minutes over a regular fire; when cooked, pull off the tails from the fish, pick them and reserve them for garnishing; pound the insides, the claws, and shells ; place them in the stewpan with the white stock, and let the whole simmer gently, one hour, at the side of the fire. Make a thickening of the butter and flour, place it on the fire for 5 minutes, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; strain the boiling stock and pour it on the thickening; let it reduce for 20 minutes, stirring the whole time. Now let it cease boiling, and add two-thirds of the cream ; strain and place it on the bain- marie. Five minutes before serving, boil it up and add the remaining one-third of the cream; put the tails of the crayfish in the tureen, pour the soup over them, and then serve. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 4s. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This is a frequent soup at French tables, and is generally much relished by English people. Here it is uncommon, the fish being difficult to procure. 394.—CRAYFISH SOUP. (Fr.—Puree d’Ecrevisses.) Ingredients.—50 crayfish, £ lb. of butter, 6 anchovies, the crumb of 1 French roll, a little lobster-spawn, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock, No. 273, or fish stock, No. 280. Mode.—Shell the crayfish, and put the fish between two plates, until they *?re wanted; pound the shells in a mortar, with the butter and