888 SMALL VOL-AU-VENTS. Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. an egg. This precaution is necessary to prevent the fricassde, or ragofit, from bursting the case, and so spoiling the appearance of the dish. Fill the vol-au-vent with a rich mince, or fricassee, or ragout, or the remains of cold fish, flaked and warmed in a good white sauce, and do not make them very liquid, for fear of the gravy bursting the crust; replace the lid, and serve. To improve the appearance of the crust, brush it over with the yolk of an egg after it has risen properly. Time.—3 hour to bake the vol-au-vent. Aver- age Cost, exclusive of interior, is. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Small vol-au-vents may be made like those shown in the engraving, and filled with minced veal, chicken, &c. They should be made of the same paste as the larger ones, and stamped out with a small fluted cutter. 1895.—SWEET VOL-AU-VENT OF PLUMS, APPLES, OR ANY OTHER FRESH FRUIT. Ingredients.— % lb. of puff-paste, No. 1677, about 1 pint of fruit compote. Mode.—Make £ lb. of puff-paste by recipe No. 1677, taking care to bake it in a good brisk oven, to draw it up nicely and make it look light. Have ready sufficient stewed fruit, the syrup of which must be boiled down until very thick ; fill the vol-au-vent with this, and pile it high in the centre; powder a little sugar over it, and put it back in the oven to glaze, or use a salamander for the purpose: the vol-au-vent is then ready to serve. They may be made with any fruit that is in season, such as rhubarb, oranges, gooseberries, currants, cherries, apples, &c.; but care must be taken not to have the syrup too thin, for fear of its breaking through the crust. Time.—\ hour to 40 minutes to bake the vol-au-vent. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 1 entremets. 1895.-VOL-AU-VENT OF FRESH STRAWBERRIES WITH WHIPPED CREAM. Ingredients.—| lb. of puff-paste, No. 1677, 1 pint of freshly-gathered strawberries, sugar to taste, a plateful of whipped cream. Mode.—Make a vol-au-vent case by recipe No. 1894, only not quite so large nor so high as for a savoury one. When nearly done, brush the paste over with the white of an egg, then sprinkle on it some pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to set the glaze. Remove the interior,