LEG OF MUTTON. 500 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. (Fr.—Longe de Mouton Rotie.) purchases of meat as will pay for the bread to eat with it. It often occurs, for instance, that the butcher may have a superfluity of certain joints, and these he would be glad to get rid of at a reduction of sometimes as much as id. or i\d. per lb., and thus, in a joint of 8 or 9 lbs ..will be saved enough to buy 2 quartern loaves. It frequently happens with many butchers, that, in con- sequence of a demand for legs and loins of mutton, they have only shoulders left, and these they will be glad to sell at a reduction. 1097.-ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. (Fr.—Gigot Roti.) Ingredients.—Leg of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—As mutton, when freshly killed, is never tender, hang it almost as long as it will keep ; flour it and put it in a cool airy place for a few days, if the weather will permit. Wash off the flour, wipe it very dry, and cut off the shank-bone; put it down to a brisk, clear fire, dredge with flour, and keep continually basting the whole time it is cooking. About twenty minutes before serving, draw it near the fire to get nicely brown; sprinkle over it a little salt, dish the meat, pour off the dripping, add some boiling water slightly salted, strain it over the joint, and serve. Time.—A leg of mutton weighing io lbs., about 2\ or 2\ hours ; one of 7 lbs., about 2 hours, or rather less. Average Cost, 9$d. per lb. Sufficient.—A moderate-sized leg of mutton, for 10 or 12 persons. Seasonable at any time, but not so good in June, July, and August. 1098.-ROAST LOIN OF MUTTON. Ingredients.—Loin of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—Cut and trim off the superfluous fat, and see that the butcher joints the meat properly, as thereby much annoyance is saved to the carver when it comes to table. Have ready a nice clear fire (it need not be a very wide, large one), put down the meat, dredge with flour, and baste well until it is done. Make the gravy as for roast leg of mutton, and serve very hot. Time.—A loin of mutton weighing 6 lbs., hour or rather longer. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Seasonable at any time.