Salad Dressing. 345 waluut, sprinkle in the flour, cover close, and steam 10 minutes ; then add the vinegar, gravy, and seasoning and simmer half an hour. This is excellent with roast pork. Time.—40 minutes. Average Cost, 3%d. for this quantity. Seasonable at any time. 764.-SALAD DRESSING. {Excellent.) Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, 2 tablespoon- fuls of vinegar, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Put the mixed mustard into a salad-bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, carefully stirring and mixing all these ingredients well together. Proceed in this manner with the milk and vinegar, which must be added very gradually, or the sauce will curdle. Put in the season- ing, when the mixture will be ready for use. If this dressing is properly made, it will have a soft, creamy appearance, and will be found very delicious with crab or cold fried fish (the latter cut into dice), as well as with salads. In mixing salad dressings, the ingredients cannot be added too gradually or stirred too much. Average Cost, for this quantity, j,d. Sufficient for a small salad. This recipe can be confidently recommended by the editress, to whom it was given by an intimate friend noted for her salads. Scarcity of Salads in England.—Three centuries ago, very few vegetables were cultivated in England, and an author writing of the period of Henry VIII.'s reign, tells us that neithersalad, nor carrots, nor cabbages, nor radishes; nor any other comestibles of a like nature, were grown in any part of the kingdom; they came from Holland and Flanders. We further learn that Queen Katherine herself, with all her royalty, could not procure a salad of English growth for her dinner. The king was obliged to mend this sad state of affairs, and send to Holland for a gardener in order to cultivate those pot-herbs, in the growth of which England is now, perhaps, not behind any other country in Europe. 765.—FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. (Fr.—Sauce Remoulade.) Ingredients.—4 eggs, I tablespoonful of made mustard, salt and cay- enne to taste, 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon or plain vinegar. Mode.—Boil 3 eggs quite hard for 10 minutes, put them into cold water, and let them remain in it for a few minutes; strip off the shells, put the yolks in a mortar, and pound them very smoothly; add to them, very gradually, the mustard, seasoning and vinegar, keeping all well stirred and rubbed down with the back of a wooden spoon. Put in the oil drop by drop, and when this is thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients,