787 Turnips in White Sauce. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable.—May be had all the year; but in early spring only good for flavouring gravies. Vegetables Reduced to Puree —Persons in the flower of youth, having healthy stomachs and leading active lives, may eat all sorts of vegetables, without inconvenience, save, of course, in excess. The digestive functions possess great energy during the period of youth; the body, to develop itself, needs nourishment. Physical exercise gives an appetite, which it is necessary to satisfy, and vegetables cannot resist the vigorous action of the gastric organs. An old proverb says, “ At twenty, one can digest iron.” But for aged persons, the sedentary, or the delicate, it is quite otherwise. Then the gastric power has considerably diminished, the digestive organs have lost their energy, the process of digestion is consequently slower, and the least excess at table is followed by derangement of the stomach for several days. Those who generally digest vegetables with difficulty, should eat them reduced to a pulp or puree, that is to say, with their skins and tough fibre removed. Subjected to this process, vegetables which, when entire, would create flatulence and wind, are then comparatively harmless. Experience has established the rule that nourish- ment is not complete without the alliance of meat with vegetables. We would also add, that the regime most favourable to health is found in variety : variety pleases the senses, monotony is dis- agreeable. The eye is fatigued by looking always on one object, the ear by listening to one sound and the palate by tasting one flavour. It is the same with the stomach ; consequently, variety of food is one of the essentials for securing good digestion. 1644.—GERMAN MODE OF COOKING TURNIPS. (Fr.—Navets au Jus.) Ingredients.—8 large turnips, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than | pint of weak stock or broth, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Mode.—Make the butter hot in a stewpan, lay in the turnips, after having pared and cut them into dice, and season them with pepper and salt. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then add the broth, and simmer the whole gently till the turnips are tender. Brown the above proportion of flour with a little butter; add this to the turnips, let them simmer another 5 minutes, and serve. Boiled mutton is usually sent to table with this vegetable, and may be cooked with the turnips by placing it in the midst of them : the meat would then be very delicious, as, there being so little liquid with the turnips, it would almost be steamed, and subsequently very tender. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. per bunch. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable.— May be had all the year. Turnips.—Good turnips are delicate in texture, firm and sweet. The best sorts contain a sweet juicy mucilage, uniting with the aroma a slightly acid quality, which is completely neutralised in cooking. The turnip is prepared in a variety of ways. Ducks stuffed with turnips have been highly appreciated. It is useful in the regimen of persons afflicted with chronic visceral irritations. The turnip only creates flatulency when it is soft, porous and stringy. It is then, consequently, bad. 1645.-TURNIPS IN WHITE SAUCE. (Fr.—Navets a la Sauce Blanche.) (An Entremets, or to be served with the Second Course as a Side-dish.) ingredients.— 7 or 8 turnips, 1 oz. butter, \ pint of white sauce, No. 665 or 666.