1198 Recipes for Beverages. earthen pan. Bottle next day if it is quite clear, and put i lump of sugar into each bottle. It should be a fine wine in six months. Time.—2 hours to boil. Average Cost, is. per quart. Seasonable, make this in August or September. 2675.-BLACK CHERRY WINE. (Very Nice.) Ingredients.—24 lbs. of small black cherries, 2 lbs. of sugar to each gallon of liquor. Mode.—Bruise the cherries, but leave the stones whole, stir well, and let the mixture stand 24 hours, then strain through a sieve, add the sugar, mix again, and stand another 24 hours. Pour away the clear liquor into a cask, and when fermentation has ceased, bung it closely. Bottle in 6 months’ time. It will keep from 12 to 18 months. Time.—To remain in the cask six months. Average Cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable, make this in July or August. 2676.-CLARY WINE. Ingredients.—To 1 gallon of water, put 3 lbs. of sugar, 2 tablespoon- fuls of yeast, 1 quart of fresh clary flowers and tops, | pint of brandy. Mode.—This well-known and popular beverage, with the higher classes in bygone days, is made as follows. Boil together the water and sugar, skimming thoroughly; let it cool, then put it into a cask. Mix a little of the liquor with the yeast, and when it is working well add it to the rest, and add the clary flowers and tops. Stir the mixture twice daily for 5 days, and bung up when the wine has stopped hissing. Let it stand 4 months, then rack it off, empty away the dregs, cleanse the cask and put the wine back again, adding the brandy. Bung it, and it will be ready for bottling in 2 months, and for drinking in 6. (As this wine leaves much deposit, the tap for drawing it off should be high up in the cask.) Time.—12 months. Average Cost, is. 6d. per gallon. 2677.—CHERRY BOUNCE. Ingredients.—12 lbs. of cherries, 4 lbs. of sugar to each gallon ot juice, £ teaspoonful of allspice, 4 blades of mace, 1 quart of brandy, 1 quart of rum. Mode.—Stone the cherries, put them into a stone jar and set it in a saucepan of water, letting it boil till all the juice is extracted. Strain the juice and put sugar and spice as above, and boil until all the scum has disappeared. Let it cool, then add the spirits, and bottle.