42 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. themselves. Frequently, the shelves constitute an open framewoik placed against the wall itself, and held there by iron spikes known as “ holdfasts,”' an ugly, careless, and reprehensible mode of attachment in such a conspicuous posi- tion. The wall behind the shelves should be match-boarded, and the boards in this case painted white, or some light and pretty tint, and varnished. The colour- ing serves as a suitable background to the earthenware placed on the dresser shelves, and the boarding furnishes suitable means of attachment for the shelves themselves, which can be kept at their proper level by brackets of brass or iron at proper intervals, and prevented from “ sagging,” or sinking in the middle, which is caused partly by their own length and weight and partly by the weight of the earthenware placed on them. 75. The Drawers.—These should move in and out easily on their runners and fit nicely to the framework in which they are set. As a means for pulling them out, drawer pulls are far better and more convenient than knobs or swing handles, which are apt to catch and tear the dress if the kitchen be not tolerably roomy. Drawer-pulls are made in three sizes, namely 3 inch, 3$ inch and 4 inch, and are sold, plain, and complete with screws, by any ironmonger, in dead brass, at 2s. 3d., and 2s. 6d. per dozen, according to size; in polished brass at 3s. 6d. and 3s. 9d. per dozen ; and ornamental, at 3s. 6d., 55., and 6s. 6d. per dozen. A cheaper kind in fancy enamelled iron may be bought at about is. 6d. per dozen. For all kinds of drawers these drawer-pulls will be found convenient. 76. The Pot Board.—Sometimes the pot board is left open to view, and sometimes it is enclosed with panelled doors opening outwards on hinges, and three in number, to correspond with the drawers. It is desirable that the pot board should be enclosed, but the doors are often in the way when open, and in some cases even inconvenient to get at. The better way is to substitute three sliding panels for the doors, working in two parallel grooves, and arranged as shown in the accompanying diagram, the side panels being in the outer groove and Arrangement of Sliding Panels in Dresser. the centre panel in the inner groove. Thus either of the ends may be opened by pushing the panel that covers it in front of the centre panel, and the middle may be opened by pushing the centre panel behind either of the side panels. Thus access to the interior is obtained as easily as by doors, without the inconvenience which the use of hinged doors often entails and to which allusion has been made above. 77. The Cupboards.—Broad and deep cupboards are an absolute necessity in a kitchen, and the recess formed by the piers that flank the range and the chimney breast above are usually appropriated to this purpose, each recess being divided into two cupboards with folding doors, the larger one above and the smaller one below. In the former two or three shelves are placed, according to the height of the cupboard ; the bottom or partition between the upper and the lower divisions forming another. Each cupboard should be devoted to a special purpose. Thus, one of the larger cupboards might contain the breakfast and tea services, and all glass, &c., in every day use: the other would form a convenient receptacle of pie-dishes, baking-dishes, patty pans, moulds, shapes and the various appliances of this kind that are constantly in demand for cooking. Of the smaller cupboards one might be set apart for the storage of earthen jars, bottles of various kinds, foot-warmers, &c., and the other for blacking, black lead, petro-