Cutlets of Lamb a la Constance. 1277 Take it out, drain, roll in egg and bread-crumb, fry, and serve up with tomato sauce, fresh if possible. Time.—| hour. Average Cost.—Seldom bought. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from May to September. 2904.—SWEETBREADS EN CAISSE. (An Entree.) Ingredients.—3 sweetbreads, paper cases, 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. ot bacon-fat chopped fine, 1 teaspoonful of olive oil, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped mushrooms, 1 small teaspoonful of chopped shalots, a little parsley, chopped fine, salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, bread-crumb. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in warm water for 1 hour, boil them 10 minutes, take them out and put them into cold water for a few minutes, and then cut them into convenient pieces. Make a forcemeat of the butter, bacon-fat, olive oil, mushrooms, shalots and bread-crumb ; hold over the fire for 5 minutes, add the parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg, hold 2 minutes more, then allow to cool. Butter the cases inside, lay a little of the forcemeat in each, then some of the sweetbread, cover over with more forcemeat and bread-crumb. Broil very gently for a quarter of an hour and brown them over. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable from May to August. 2905.- CUTLETS OF LAMB A LA CONSTANCE. (An Entree.) Ingredients.—12 lamb cutlets, £ lb. of butter, 4 fowls’ livers, 4 cocks’ combs, 20 mushroom buttons, pepper, salt. Mode.—Clean the combs, plunge them into boiling water, rub off the outer skin, and let them lie in water for 3 or 4 hours. Wipe, and make a stew with the livers, mushrooms, a little butter, stock and season- ing, cutting them all up into pieces. Then mix the stew with a hot bechamel sauce, or some butter made into a paste with flour. Shape and trim the cutlets, fry them on both sides with a little butter, adding pepper and salt. When done, drain off the butter, glaze the cutlets, arrange them in a circle in a dish, pour the stew into the centre and serve. Time.—10 minutes for the cutlets. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. CUTLETS OF LAMB A LA CONSTANCE.