516 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. cutlets with these ingredients. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, lay in the cutlets, and fry them a nice brown ; take them out and keep them hot before the fire. Dredge some flour into the pan, and if there is not sufficient butter, add a little more ; stir till it looks brown, then pour in the hot broth or water, and the remaining ingredients; give one boil, and pour round the cutlets. If the gravy should not be thick enough, add a little more flour. Mushrooms, when obtainable, are a great improvement to this dish, and when not in season, mushroom-powder may be substituted for them. Time.—io minutes; rather longer, should the cutlets be very thick. Average Cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1130.—SHEEP’S BRAINS WITH MATELOTE SAUCE. (Fr.—Cervelles de Mouton en Matelote.) Ingredients.— 6 sheep’s brains, vinegar, salt, a few slices of bacon, 1 small onion, 2 cloves, a small bunch of parsley, sufficient stock or weak broth to cover the brains, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, mate- lote sauce, No. 733. Mode.—Detach the brains from the heads without breaking them, and put them into a pan of warm water; remove the skin, and let them remain for 2 hours. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, add a little vinegar and salt, and put in the brains. When they are quite firm, take them out and put them into very cold water. Place 2 or 3 slices of bacon in a stewpan, put in the brains, the onion stuck with 2 cloves, the parsley, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt ; cover with stock or weak broth, and boil them gently for about 25 minutes. Have ready some croutons ; arrange these in the dish alternately with the brains, and cover with a matelote sauce, No. 733, to which has been added the above proportion of lemon-juice. Time.—25 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1131.-LAMB AND CUCUMBERS. (Fr.—Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Puree de Concombres.) Ingredients.—Cold roast lamb, 3 cucumbers, \ lb. of butter, £ pint of good brown gravy. Mode.—Cut the cucumbers open, take out the seeds, then put them {Bio boiling salted water and boil them five minutes. Remove them to