1057 Fruit Ice Cream. Mode.—Scrape the chocolate into the milk, and blend thoroughly ; add the cream and sugar, strain and freeze as directed in recipe No. 2295. Time.—25 minutes to freeze. Average Cost, 2s. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2301.—COFFEE ICE CREAM. (Fr.—Creme au Cafe Glacee.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of Turkey coffee berries, well roasted, 1 pint ol cream, £ pint of milk, 1 oz. of arrowroot, £ lb. of sugar. Mode.—Place the berries on a tin in the oven for 5 minutes, boil the cream and milk together, and put them into a can ; take the berries from the oven, and throw them in the scalding cream ; cover till cold, strain, add the arrowroot and sugar, and stir over the fire like custard. Freeze as directed in recipe No. 2295. Time.—25 minutes to freeze. Average Cost, 2s. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2302.—TO MAKE FRUIT ICE CREAM. Ingredients.—To every pint of fruit juice allow 1 pint of cream ; sugar to taste. Mode.—Let the fruit be well ripened ; pick it off the stalks, and put it into a large earthen pan. Stir it about with a wooden spoon, breaking it until it is well mashed; then, with the back of the spoon, rub it through a hair sieve. Sweeten it nicely with pounded sugar; whip the cream for a few minutes, add it to the fruit, and whisk the whole again for another 5 minutes. Put the mixture into the freezing-pot, and freeze as directed in recipe No. 2295. Raspberry, strawberry, currant, and all fruit ice- creams are made in the same manner. A little pounded sugar sprinkled over the fruit before it is mashed assists to extract the juice. In winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable, a little jam may be substituted for it; it should be melted and worked through a sieve before being added to the whipped cream; and if the colour should not be good, a little prepared cochineal may be put in to improve its appearance. Time.—25 minutes to freeze the mixture. Average Cost, 4d. each ice. Seasonable, with fresh fruit, in June, JuLy, and August. 2303.—GINGER ICE CREAM, (Fr.—Creme au Gingembre Glacee.) Ingredients.—6 oz. of preserved ginger, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 pint of cream £ lb of sugar.