Pancakes. 949 Time.—8 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters; 5 minutes to drain them. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from November to May. 2028.-A PRETTY DISH OF ORANGES. (Fr.—Oranges Glac6es au Caramel.) Ingredients.—6 large oranges, \ lb. of loaf sugar;* £ pint of water, \ pint of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of any kind of liqueur, sugar to taste. Mode.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them until the sugar becomes brittle, which may be ascertained by taking up a small quantity in a spoon, and dipping it in cold water; if the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it will easily snap. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into nice-sized slices, without breaking the thin white skin which surrounds the juicy pulp. Place the pieces of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hot sugar, and arrange them in layers round a plain mould, which should be well oiled with the purest salad oil. The sides of the mould only should be lined with the oranges, and the centre left open for the cream. Let the sugar become firm by cooling : turn the oranges carefully out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with any kind of liqueur, and sweeten with pounded sugar. This is an exceedingly ornamental and nice dish for the supper table. Time.—10 minutes to boil the sugar. Average Cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for I mould. Seasonable from November to May. 2029.—TO MAKE PANCAKES. (Fr.—Crepes.) Ingredients.—Eggs, flour, milk; to every egg allow 1 oz. of flour, about 1 gill of milk, £ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Ascertain that the eggs are fresh; break each one separately in a cup; whisk them well, put them into a basin, with the flour, salt, and a few drops of milk, and beat the whole to a perfectly smooth batter; then add by degrees the remainder of the milk. The proportion of this latter ingredient must be regulated by the size of the eggs, &c.; but the batter, when ready for frying, should be of the consistency of thick cream. Place a small frying-pan on the fire to get hot; let it be delicately clean, or the pancakes will stick, and, when quite hot, put into it a small piece of butter, allowing about \ oz. to each pancake. When it is melted, pour in the batter, about \ teacupful to a pan 5 inches in diameter, and fry it for about 4 minutes, or until it is nicely brown on one side. By only pouring in a small quantity PANCAKES.