55 Ranges for Cooking by Gas. seated by this r»ge, thereto, y SS^fW. rapid and good action; ample hot-pls stand and a iarge boiler, which good front fire roasting, with roas 0 ’ , ■ ’ capacity of 8J gallons, is heated without loss of heat to oven, &c„ and having a capacity o to plate, 15s. extra. given above, are an iron boiling p , shown in the illustration, potatoes, vegetables 01 ,Pud^inga’c j bian goblet also tinned inside, an iron tern ol cover Iff*. poker, flue rake and brush, &c (2.) Modifications in ^’^SrlboilS f/means^ofwhich a range of S sfderable6power may be placed in a Std stitution ofear ofthe"smoke plpe by which the fire, when the front grating is SslSiTcSUkeTdoLf resemblance to the old-lasb.oned open fire. _ r. „ hu Gas.—From the consideration of ranges in wh JSingf^rform^y ,f combustion of solid fuel, it is necessary to turn to those in which gas is the fuel employed Cooking by gas has been much on the increase in late years The gas companies in various localities lend- ing all the aid in their power to further it by supply- ing their customers with gas stoves, or ranges, at a low annual rental. There are many features to re- commend cooking by gas, chief am^g ^mh are i s cleanliness and the readiness by which the tire can De lighted and extinguished, facilities which are con- ducive to economy, because the fire need on y maintained when it is required for cooking. Again, during the greater part of the day, in the summer, no firehneedfd even in the kitchen, and it is a genuine comfort to be able to dispense with it Against this however, must be placed the fact, that m the winte season a fire must be maintained from morning to evening, and that a gas range does not present the comfortable appearance that an ordinary range kitchener has, with solid fuel burning within its fire- box or grate. Moreover, when a gas fire is constant y maintained, it is open to question whether ^is^not more c°stly th“ a, g®ft°d and argued here; but 'readers who are interested entitled, -‘Economy and ^ ^ ^ purp09es,” by Mr. Thomas Fletcher, - maker of appliances for the use of gas in the United Kingdom. Fletcher's No. 4 Ga3 Cooking Range.