Recipes for Cooking Fish. 272 the mouth by means of a small skewer, brush the fish over with egg, dredge with a little flour, and cover with bread-crumbs. Press the crumbs firmly on. Fry them in hot lard or clarified dripping of a nice colour, and serve them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Small fried whitings are frequently used for garnishing large-bodied fish, such as turbot, cod, &c. Send them to table with shrimp sauce or plain melted butter. Time.—About 6 minutes. Average Cost, to 6d. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficient, i small whiting for each person. Note.— Large whitings may be filleted, rolled, and served as fried filleted soles. 581.-BAKED WHITING. (Fr.—Merlan au Gratin.) Ingredients.—4 whitings, butter, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, a few chopped mushrooms, when obtainable; pepper, salt and grated nutmeg to taste, butter, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Grease the bottom of a baking-dish with butter, and over it strew some minced parsley and mushrooms. Scale, empty and wash the whitings, and wipe them thoroughly dry, carefully preserving the livers. Lay them in the dish, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs and seasoning, adding a little grated nutmeg, and also a little more minced parsley and mushrooms. Place small pieces of butter over the whitings, moisten with the wine, and bake for 20 minutes in a hot oven. If there should be too much sauce, reduce it by boiling over a sharp fire for a few minutes, and pour under the fish. Serve with a cut lemon, and no other sauce. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, cooked in this way, 2s. 4d. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficient, this quantity, for 6 persons. 582.—BAKED WHITING WITH SWEET HERBS. (Fj'.-Meiian aux Fines Herbes.) Ingredients.—1 bunch of sweet herbs, chopped very fine; butter. Mode.—Clean and skin the fish, fasten the tails in the mouths, and lay them in a baking-dish. Mince the herbs very fine, strew them over the fish, and place small pieces of butter over; cover with a piece of buttered paper or another dish, and let them simmer in a Dutch oven for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Turn the dish once or twice, and serve with the sauce poured over. Lemon peel and juice, mush- room powder or mushrooms, parsley, white wine, may all be added to vary the flavouring. Any white fish is good cooked in this way. Time.—l hour or 20 minutes. Average Cost, small whiting, 4d. to 6d. ea©h.