Leases and Mortgages. 1625 of sale and purchase now implies conveyance to the purchaser of every legal right, whether mentioned in the deed or not, such as access, rights of way, water, light, and everything appurtenant to and necessary t© the use and en- joyment of the property, unless any such ordinary right be expressly barred by an undoubted and clear stipulation in the deed. 3700. Covenants.—The numerous covenants which were formerly embodied in deeds are now for the most part needless and worthless. Every deed legally implies all ordinary covenants, so that unless there is something very unusual respecting the property or the circumstances, anything in the nature of a separate covenant is surplusage. Every vendor is presumed to covenant that he is en- titled to sell, and that he relinquishes all rights of ownership, which all spontane- ously pass to the purchaser, whether mentioned in detail or not. These observa- tions apply especially to purchase deeds of freeholds, and not to covenants in leases, subsequently referred to. 3701. Leases.—A lease may be so called, and granted for any period, however short, but the practical meaning of a lease is a tenancy subsisting, or to subsist, for more than three years. It can only be created by a deed, subject to all the conditions relating to deeds of purchase, previously mentioned ; but the remuneration due to the solicitor is different, namely :— Lessor’s solicitor for preparing, settling and completing lease and counter- part :— l £7 ios. per cent, on the rental, Where the rent does not exceed /ioo j but not less in any case than l £5. 1/7 105. in respect of the first £100 of rent, and £2 105. in respect of each subsequent £\oo of rent. 1/7 105. in respect of the first /ioo of rent, £2 105. in re- spect of each /ioo of rent up to /500, and £1 in respect of every subsequent £100. Lessee’s solicitor for perusing draft and com- f One-half of the amount payable pleting { to the lessor’s solicitor. 3702. Leases by Life Tenants.—There were formerly numerous restric- tions upon the granting of leases by life tenants, but, for all ordinary purposes, those restrictions are abolished. The only restrictions are that the tenant for life must not grant a lease of the mansion-house of the estate, but he may of any other part of the estate for the terms prescribed, namely Building lease, ninety-nine years. Mining lease, sixty years. Any other lease, twenty-one years. The only other restriction is that the rent reserved must be as much as can be reasonably obtained, without any premium or consideration in the nature of entrance fee. 3703. Mortgagees are also entitled to grant leases of the property they hold as such : building leases for ninety-nine years ; any other lease, twenty-one years ; an adequate rent being a condition for which the mortgagee is liable to the redemptioner if the property be redeemed by the mortgagor or his represents tive.