Rotnney-Marsh Breed. 477 legs are ■black, or sometimes mottled, the horns spiral, and on the top of the forehead it has a small round tuft of lighter-coloured wool than on the face; has the muzzle and lips of the same light hue, and what shepherds call a mealy mouth ; the eye is full of vivacity and fire, and well open; the body long, round and firm, and the limbs robust. The wool is thin, coarse and light. Weight of the quarter, from 10 to 16 lbs. 1050. The Cheviot.—From the earliest traditions, these hills in the North, like the chalk-ridges in the South, have produced a race of large-carcassed sheep, producing a valuable fleece. To these physical advantages, they added a sound constitution, remarkable vigour, and capability to endure great priva- tion. Both sexes are destitute of horns, face white, legs long and clean, carry the head erect, have the throat and neck well covered, the ears long and open, and the face animated. The Cheviot is a small-boned sheep, and well covered with wool to the hough ; the only defect in this breed is in a want of depth in the chest. Weight of the quarter, from 12 to 18 lbs. 1051. Though the Romney Marshes, that wide tract of morass and lowland moor extending from the Weald (or ancient forest) of Kent into Sussex, has rather been regarded as a general feeding-ground for any kind of sheep to ROMNEY-MARSH RAM. ROMNEY-MARSH EWE. be pastured on, it has yet, from the earliest date, been famous for a breed of animals almost peculiar to the locality, and especially for size, length, thickness and quantity of wool, and what is called thickness of stocking, and on this account, for ages held pre-eminence over every other breed in the kingdom. So satisfied were the Kentish men with the superiority of their sheep, that they long resisted any crossing in the breed. At length, however, this was effected, and from Old Romney and New Leicester a stock was produced that proved, in an eminent degree, the advantage of the cross ; and though the breed was actually smaller than the original, it was found that the new stock did not consume so much food, the stocking was increased, they were ready for the market a year sooner ; that the fat formed more on the exterior of the car- case, where it was of most advantage to the grazier, rather than as formerly in the interior, where it went to the butcher as offal; and though the wcol was