646 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 1346.-CURRIED FOWL. (Fr.—Poulet au Kari.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 fowl, 2 large onions, 1 clove of garlic, 4 oz. of butter, 3 dessertspoonfuls of curry-powder, salt, 1 pint of milk, | teaspoonful of ground cloves, £ lemon, rice. Mode.—Fry the onions and garlic in two ounces of butter until of a light brown colour ; then rub the powder over the fowl and fry it in the other two ounces of butter. Place all in a stewpan, with a pinch of salt, add the milk, which must be boiling. Stew gently until the liquor is reduced to a third of the quantity. Half-an-hour before serving, add cloves and the lemon-juice. Serve boiled rice with it. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the fowl, is. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable in the winter. The Cochin-China.—About forty-two years ago, the arrival of this distinguished Asiatic creatf d in England as great a sensation as might be expected from the landing of an invading host. The first pair that ever made their appearance here were natives of Shanghai, and were presented to the queen, who exhibited them at the Dublin poultry show of 1846. Then began the “ Cochin ” furor. As soon as it was discovered, despite the most strenuous endeavours to keep the tremendous secret, that a certain dealer was possessed of a pair of these birds, straightway the avenues to that dealer’s shop were blocked by broughams, and chariots, and hack cabs, until the shy poulterer had been tempted by a sufficiently high sum to part with his treasure. Bank-notes were exchanged for Cochin chicks, and Cochin eggs were in as great demand as though they had been laid by the fabled golden goose. The reign of the Cochin China was, however, of inconsiderable duration. The bird that, in 1847, would fetch thirty guineas is now counted but ordinary chicken-meat, and its price is regulated according to its weight when ready for the spit. As for the precious buff eggs, against which, one time of day, guineas were weighed—send for sixpenn’orth at the cheesemonger’s, and you will get at least five; which is just as it should be. For elegance of shape or quality of flesh, the Cochin cannot for a moment stand comparison with our handsome dunghill ; neither can the indescribable mixture of growling and braying, peculiar to the former, vie with the musical trumpeting of our own morning herald ; yet our poultry-breeders have been immense gainers by the introduction of the ungainly celestial, inas- much as new blood has been infused into the English chicken family. Of this incalculable ad- vantage we may be sure ; while, as to the Cochin's defects, they are certain to be lost in the process of “cross and cross” breeding. 1347.—CURRIED FOWL. (Fr.—Poulet a la Indienne.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—i fowl, i pint of stock, No. 273, 3 dessertspoonfuls of curry-powder, 2 large onions, 4 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of raisins, weighed before stoning ; 3 tomatoes, 1 gill of milk, 3 cloves of garlic, ^ a lemon. Mode.—The day before this curry is required, rub the curry-powder into a smooth paste with a little milk, adding the rest of the milk by de- grees ; stir the stock to this gradually; when quite smooth and free from