645 Curried Chicken. this to the other ingredients; simmer for rather more than half an hour, and just before serving, add the above proportion of hot cream and lemon-juice. Serve with boiled rice, which may either be heaped lightly on a dish by it* self, or put round the curry as a border. Time.—50 minutes. Average Cost, 3s. 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in the winter. Note.—This curry may be made of cold chicken, but undressed meat will be found far superior. The Poland.—This bird, a native of Holland, is a great favourite with fowl-keepers, especiall) those who have an eye to profit rather than to amusement. Those varieties known as the “ siiver spangled,” and the “ gold spangled " are handsome enough to please the most fastidious ; but the common black breed, with the bushy crown of white feathers, is but a plain bird. The chief value of the common Poland lies in the great number ot eggs they produce ; indeed in many parts they are as well known as “ ever- lasting layers” as by their proper name. However, the experienced breeder would take good care to send the eggs of his everlasting layers to market, and not use them for home consumption, as, although they may be as large as those laid by other hens, the amount of nutriment contained in them is not nearly so great. Mr. Mowbray once kept an account of the number of eggs produced by this prolific bird, with the following result:—From the 25th of October to the 25th of the following September five' hens laid 503 eggs; the average weight of each egg was one ounce five drachms, and the total weight of the whole, ex- clusive of the shells 50I lbs. Taking the weight of the birds at the fair average of five lbs. each we thus see them producing within a year double their weight of eggs alone ; and supposing every egg to contain a chick, and allowing the chick to grow, in less than eighteen months from the laying of the first egg, two thousand five hundred pounds of chicken-meat would be the result. The Poland is easily fattened, and its flesh is generally considered juicier and of richer flavour than most others. SPANGLED POLANDS. I345-CURRIED FOWL OR CHICKEN. (Fr.—Poulet a Plndienne.) (Cold Meat Cookery. Another Mode.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 2 large onions, 1 apple, 2 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of curry-powder, 1 teaspoonful of flour, £ pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Slice the onions, peel, core and chop the apple, and cut the fowl- into neat joints; fry these in the butter of a nice brown ; then add the curry-powder, flour and gravy, and stew for about 20 minutes. Put in the lemon-juice and serve with boiled rice, either placed in a ridge round the dish or separately; 2 or 3 shalots, or a little garlic may be added, if approved. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, 64. Seasonable in the winter.