1483 Carpet-sweeping. polished furniture look very well. One precaution must be taken—not to put too much of the polish on at one time, afid to rub, not smear it over the articles. 3283. Lamp Cleaning.—The chamber candlesticks should be brought down and cleaned, and the parlour lamps trimmed—and here the housei iaid’s utmost care is required. In cleaning candlesticks, as in every other cleaning, she should have cloths and brushes kept for that purpose alone; the knife used to scrape them should be applied to no other purpose ; the tallow-grease should be thrown into a box kept for the purpose; the same with everything connected with the lamp- trimming ; the best mode of doing which she may learn from direc- tions given with different lamps, always bearing in mind, how- ever, that without perfect cleanliness, which involves occasional scalding, no lamp can be kept in order. After scalding a lamp, it should be rinsed out with a little spirits ; this will prevent the oil sputtering on first being lighted after the scalding. 3284. The drawing and dining-room, inasmuch as everything there is more costly and valuable, require even more care. When the carpets are of the kind known as velvet-pile, they require to be swept firmly by a hard whisk brush, made of cocoanut- fibre. The furniture must be carefully gone over in every corner with a soft cloth, tharit may be left perfectly free from dust; or where that is beyond reach, with a brush made of long feathers, or a goose’s wing. The sofas are swept in the same manner, slightly beaten, the cushions shaken and smoothed, the picture-frames sw^epi, and everything arranged in its proper place. This, of course, applies to dining as well as drawing-room and morning-room. And now the housemaid may dress herself for the day, and prepare for the family dinner, at which she must attend, should there be no parlour-maid, or should she be required to assist the latter. 3285. Evening Duties.— In summer-time the windows of all the bed- rooms, which have been closed during the heat of the day, should be thrown open for an hour or so after sunset, in order to air them. Before dark they should be closed, the bed-clothes turned down, and the night-clothes laid in order for use when re- quired. During winter, where fires are required in the dress- ing-rooms, they should be lighted an hour before the usual time of retiring, placing a fire guard before each fire. At the same time, the night-things on the horse should be placed before it to be aired, with a tin can of hot water, if the mis- tress is in the habit of washing before going to bed. We may add that there is no greater preservative of beauty than washing the face every night in hot water. The upper house- maid may be required to assist her mistress to undress and put her dress in order for the morrow ; in which case her duties are very much those of the lady’s-maid. And now the fire is made up for the night, the fireguard replaced, and everything in the room in order for the night, the housemaid taking care to leave the night-candle and matches together in a convenient place, should they be re- quired. It is usual in summer to remove all highly fragrant flowers from sleeping- rooms, the impression being that their scent is injurious in a close chamber. On leisure days the housemaid should be able to do some needlework for her mis- tress — such as turning and mending sheets and darning the house-linen, or assist her in anything she may thipk fit to give her to do. For this reason it is CHAMBER PAIL.