1622 Legal Memoranda. modern house includes. Upon the whole the purchase of an old house should not be entertained unless the price is low enough to leave a margin for the rectifi- cation of what may ultimately prove to be intolerable. Modern houses, though inevitably superior in some points of neatness and general appearance, are liable to defects peculiar to them. The practice of laying a foundation of concrete which now prevails, and should be insisted upon, is pretty good security against ground-damp, and the system of draining and arrange- ment of domestic fittings will be superior to ancient ones except in the extremest eases of jerry-building, evidences of which should be keenly observed. The great general defect of modern houses, however, is the meagreness and weakness of almost everything, including walls, roofs, floors, doors, staircases, window- frames and window-glass, and the insufficiency and perishable character of the ceilings and the plastering in general, paints, varnishes and minor fittings. In addition to the exercise of a watchful eye with reference to all these things, it should be regarded as indispensable to employ a trusty architect to make a rigorous examination and report. Indeed, for the reasons hereafter referred to, the architect is of more importance than the solicitor, and mechanical considera- tions take rank before legal requirements. 3694. The Purchase-Money.—Where there is money enough in the con- trol of the purchaser to pay for the desired house, no more need be said upon that point; but, in probably a large majority of instances, houses are purchased by the payment of only a comparatively small amount. The inducements promi- nently put forward by building societies very commonly prevail with those who desire to purchase house property. The system of contributing periodical sums, which are designed to eventually complete the intended purchase, possesses charms for those who are at present without any money, and for them there is no better course ; but where the intending purchaser has already money enough to cover one-third of the amount required for the purchase, it is a financial mistake to resort to a building society. That course inevitably involves delays, pending an appropriation, which may depend upon the chances of a drawing, or upon the offer of a premium which it is not always desirable to give. The possessor of anything like a reasonable proportion of the money would do better to arrange for a mortgage, money being thus attainable upon good security at very moderate rates of interest, the only objection being the expense of the mortgage-deed. To avoid that expense it is often preferable to arrange with a bank to advance the required amount upon deposit of the deed. Such advances are usually charged with higher interest than in the case of a mortgage, but the expense of the mortgage-deed is then entirely saved, and the desirability of sub- sequently effecting a mortgage at a lower rate of interest can be considered at leisure. 3695. The Formalities of the Purchase.—Purchase of a house or any kind of landed property cannot be legally completed without the proper execu- tion of a deed. Any person who is not a solicitor who prepares, or assists in preparing or executing, a deed for or in the expectation of any reward, is liable to a penalty of £50\ consequently, except in cases so rare as to have no practical bearing, a purchase cannot be effected without resorting to a solicitor. The very general reluctance to employ a lawyer is likely to subside, or to disappear entirely, so far as regards the mere uneventful transfer of property, in consequence of the revolutionary changes that have been made by Act of Par- liament in reference to such matters. In the first place, all the old forms for legal documents are virtually abolished. As prescribed by the existing law, there is no longer any object or sense in the old-fashioned spun-out and interminable legal writings which formerly pre-