Banana Cream. 941 2023.—BACHELOR’S OMELET. Ingredients.—2 or 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, I teaspoonfdl of flour, 4 teacupful of milk. Mode.—Make a thin cream of the flour and milk; then beat up the eggs, mix all together, and add a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, and, when very hot, pour in the batter. Let the pan remain for a few minutes over a clear fire; then sprinkle upon the omelet some chopped herbs and a fews. shreds of onion ; double the omelet dexterously, and shake it out of the pan on to a hot dish. A simple sweet omelet can be made by the same process, substi- tuting sugar or preserve for the chopped herbs. Time.—2 minutes. Average Cost, 6d. Sufficient for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2024.—BANANA CREAM. Ingredients.—14 oz. of gelatine, 6 bananas, 1 lemon, sugar to taste, 4 pint of cream, flavouring of Benedictine. Mode.—Skin the fruit and put it into a saucepan with the gelatine dissolved in half a teacupful of water, the lemon-rind and juice and the loaf sugar, and simmer for about 10 minutes. When cold, beat up with it the cream, and flavour to taste with the liqueur. Wet a mould, pour in the cream, and set on ice. Time.—10 minutes to boil the mixture. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable in autumn and winter. 2025.—ORANGE CREAM. (Fr —Creme aux Oranges.) Ingredients.—14 oz. of gelatine, 6 large oranges, 1 lemon, sugar to taste, water, 4 pint of good cream. Mode.—Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon; strain it and put it into a saucepan with the gelatine and ’sufficient water to make in all 14 pint. Rub the sugar on the orange and lemon-rind, add it to the other ingredients, simmer all together for about 10 minutes. Strain through a muslin bag, and, when cold, beat up with it half a pint of thick cream Wet a mould or soak it in cold water; pour in the cream, and put it in a cool place to set. Tr , ,, . . r r OPEN MOULD. It the weather is not very warm, r oz. of gelatine will be found sufficient for the above proportion of ingredients.