Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 6i8 slowly until it is nearly done ; then add the rice, which should stew until quite tender and almost dry ; cut the onions into slices, sprinkle them with flour and fry, without breaking them, of a nice brown colour. Have ready the slices of bacon curled and grilled, and the eggs boiled hard. Lay the fowl in the form of a pyramid upon a dish, smother with the rice, garnish with the bacon, fried onions, and the hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and serve very hot. Before taking the rice out, remove the spices. Time.—£ hour to stew the fowl without the rice; £ hour with it. Average Cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Serai Ta-ook, or Fowls of the Sultan.—This fowl is the size of our English Polands, and is the latest species introduced to England. They have a white and flowing plumage, a full-sized, com- pact Poland tuft on the head, are muffed, have a full flowing tail, short legs, well feathered, and five toes upon each foot. Their comb consists merely of two little points, and their wattles are very small; their colour is that of a pure white. In January, 1854, they arrived in this country from Constantinople ; and they take their name from sarai, the Turkish name for Sultan's palace,and ta-ook, the Turkish word for fowl. They are thus called the “fowls of the Sultan," a name which has the twofold advantage of being the nearest to be found to that by which they have been known in their own country, and of designating the country whence they come. Their habits are described as being generally brisk and happy-tempered, but not so easily kept in as Cochin- Chinas. They are excellent layers, but they are non- sitters and small eaters ; their eggs are large and white. Brahmas or Cochins will clear the crop of a grass run long before they will, and, with scattered food, they soon satisfy themselves and walk away. 1308.—FOWL WITH WATERCRESSES. (Fr.—Poulet aux Cressons.) Ingredients.—A fowl, a large bunch of watercresses, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, £ pint of gravy. Mode.—Truss and roast a fowl by recipe, No. 1304, taking care that it is nicely frothed and brown. Wash and dry the watercresses, pick them nicely, and arrange them in a flat layer on a dish. Sprinkle over a little salt and the above proportion of vinegar ; place over these the fowl, and pour over it the gravy. A little gravy should be served in a tureen. When not liked, the vinegar may be omitted. Time.—From | to 1 hour, according to size. Average Cost, in full season, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time.