gT2 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. Mode.— Put the milk into a saucepan, with the gelatine, lemon-rind and sugar, and let these ingredients stand by the side of the fire until the milk is well flavoured; add the almonds, which should be blanched and pounded in a mortar to a paste, and let the milk just boil up: strain it through a fine sieve or muslin into a jug, add the cream, and stir the mixture occas- ionally until nearly cold. Let it stand for a few minutes, then pour it into the mould, which should be previously oiled with the purest salad- oil, or dipped in cold water. There will be a sediment at the bottom of the jug, which must not be poured into the mould, as, when turned out, it would very much disfigure the appearance of the blanc-mange. This blanc-inange may be made very much richer by using i£ pint of cream, and melting the gelatine in half a pint of boiling water. The flavour may also be very much varied by adding bay-leaves, laurel-leaves, or essence of vanilla, instead of the lemon-rind and almonds. Noyeau, Maraschino, Curacjoa, or any favourite liqueur, added in small proportions, very much enhances the flavour of this always favourite dish. In turning it out, just loosen the edges of the blanc-mange from the mould, place a dish on it, and turn it quickly over ; it should come out easily, and the blanc-mange have a smooth, glossy appearance when the mould is oiled, which it frequently has not when it is only dipped in water. It may be garnished as fancy dictates. Time.—About ii- hour to steep the lemon-rind and almonds in the milk. Average Cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. 1946.—A CHEAPER BLANC MANGE. Ingredients.—\ lb. of sugar, 1 quart of milk, 1^ oz. gelatine, the rind of ^ a lemon, 4 laurel leaves. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan, simmer gently until the gelatine is dissolved ; taste it occas- ionally, to ascertain when it is sufficiently flavoured with the laurel leaves; then take them out, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire for about 10 minutes. Strain it through a fine sieve into a jug, and, when nearly cold, blanc-manc-e. pour into a well-oiled mould, omitting the sediment at the bottom. Turn