1634 Legal Memoranda. verbal or in writing, by the landlord to the tenant, or by the tenant to the land- lord. If the latter, and the tenant does not quit, he is liable to double rent until he quits or makes other arrangements with the landlord. 3721. Outgoing Tenants.—Recent legislation with reference to agricul- tural holdings does not apply to trading or residential occupations, so that the rights of outgoing tenants, other than agricultural, continue as before. Unless there be some clear custom to the contrary, which is very rare, an ordi- nary outgoing tenant is not entitled to remove or take away any tree or plant of any kind, not even the most fragile shrub or flower-root, which to that time may have been growing in the soil of the freehold, whether originally planted by him or not. Matured flowers, vegetables, and fruits, he may take, but not if they are not matured sufficiently for reasonable adornment or consumption. All kinds of buildings erected by a tenant, which have their foundation in the soil, or which are incorporated with any original building, become, with some few exceptions, the property of the landlord. If the tenant has put in chimney-pieces, windows, shutters, doors, hot-houses, conservatories, workshops, stables, sheds, pigsties, chimneys, or any structure attached to the earth or to the original building, they all pass to the landlord, and the tenant has no right to remove them without the landlord’s consent, either during the tenancy or at the end of it, unless exceptional circumstances can justify the removal. The tenant is entitled, however, to remove chimney-pieces put in by him where there were none before, grates, fire-places, wainscots and the like (if fixed by him with screws only), hanging-peg , cupboards and shelves fixed by him to walls by holdfasts, and, if put in by him and removable without serious dilapidation, he may take domestic ovens, furnaces, pumps, gaspipes, water-pipes, bells, bell- wires and all ornamental fixtures, if put in by him. If a conservatory be erected upon dwarf walls, with a wooden course or coping, upon which the conservatory stands, then the tenant may take away the whole of such conservatory down to and including the wooden course. Trade fixtures of every description are privileged, including all the plants of a gardener, and may be taken away by the tenant. In every case, however, the right of a tenant to remove trade and unattached buildings, structures, fixtures and appliances is strictly limited to the continuance of the tenancy. The moment the term of the tenancy expires, everything of the kind instantly passes to the landlord, and cannot afterwards be legally removed without his consent ; so that if the tenant is dilatory and fails to remove in good time, the landlord, by entering and taking possession, may forcibly stay any further removal, and so acquire the property, the tenant’s legal claim to it being then finally extinguished. Still, if the landlord permits the removal of fixtures after the end of the term, he thereby relinquishes his claim upon them, which he cannot afterwards resume. If the outgoing tenant sells his fixtures, &c., to the incoming tenant, and the latter proves to be unable to pay for them, the outgoing tenant cannot recover them, and they hence pass to the landlord. For this reason, all sales of fixtures should be for money down. 3722. Lodgers.—Several nice points of law arise in connection with the occupation of unfurnished rooms as lodgings. Every lodger is entitled to the use of the door-bell and knocker (if any), the skylights or windows of the staircase and the water-closet, unless the agreement expressly stipulate to the contrary. A householder who lets a lodging is legally bound to exercise all ordinary and reasonable care for the protection of the person