The Doctor, 1614 quently washed with a sponge or flannel and tepid water; only small portions being exposed at one time. It should be rapidly dried with a heated towel. 3669. Tranquillity.—This is most essential to speedy recovery. Whis- pering is objectionable in the sick-room ; so also is talking outside the patient's door. All slamming of doors should be avoided. The room immediately over the sick-room should, if possible, remain unoccupied. The admission of too many people into the sick-room is another fruitful source of harm to a patient. 3670. Influence of Blind on Body.—Anything that weighs upon a patient’s mind producing care or anxiety exerts a depressing influence upon the nervous system and retards recovery. Everything of this kind should, therefore, be carefully guarded against. It is a part of the duties of those who wait upon the sick to cheer them and instil hope into their minds; otherwise fear may take possession of them and add to their danger. 3671. Convalescence.—This is that condition in which the period of active disease being at an end, the powers of nature are exerted towards repairing the waste of structure that has occurred during disease. During convalescence the greatest care is necessary, as relapses may occur and the disease end fatally, or it may assume a chronic form. It is now that the injudiciousness of friends begins to manifest itself, and unless firmness be exercised on the part of those in attend- ance, the patient may suffer through their mistaken kindness. One of the most frequent signs of returning health is the return of the patient’s appetite, but it must be remembered that his desire for food should never be fully satis- fied. The time which the patient must remain in bed varies in individual cases and can only be satisfactorily determined by the medical attendant. When a person gets out of bed for the first time after a severe illness he is generally only allowed up for a short time, and the effect produced upon him must be carefully watched. The clothing of the patient should be warm and comfortable. A change to the sea-side will often work wonders. During convalescence, if the patient is at all intellectually inclined, much pleasure may be given him by reading to him or by supplying him with literature of an interesting nature. A little more caution during convalescence than is usually found, and the chances of relapse occurring would be greatly lessened, an otherwise precarious time rendered comparatively safe, and the patient’s recovery be made more permanent and complete. LOUNGE FOR INVALIDS.