Meat, Poultry and Game Soups. 171 351._~GIBL.ET SOUP. (Fr.—Potage au Gibelettes d’Oie.) Ingredients.—3 sets of goose or duck giblets, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, a few bones or mutton shanks, 2 large onions, 2 carrots, 1 large fagot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 1 oz. of butter mixed with a dessertspoon- ful of flour, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Scald the giblets, cut the gizzards in 8 pieces, and put them in a stewpan with the shin of beef, bones or mutton-shanks, onions, herbs, pepper and salt; add the 3 quarts of water, and simmer till the giblets are tender, taking care to skim well. When the giblets are done, take them out; put them in your tureen, strain the soup through a sieve, add the butter, smoothly mixed with a dessertspoonful of flour, boil it up a few minutes, and pour it over the giblets. It can be flavoured with port wine and a little mushroom ketchup, if liked. Add salt to taste. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, 8d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 12 persons. 352—GRAVY SOUP. (Fr.—Grand Bouillon.) Ingredients.—6 lbs. of shin of beef, a knuckle of veal weighing 5 lbs., a few pieces of trimmings, 2 slices of nicely flavoured lean ham; £ lb. of butter, 4 onions, 4 carrots, 1 turnip, nearly a head of celery, 3 blades of mace, 6 cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, seasoning of salt and pepper to taste, 3 lumps of sugar, 6 quarts of boiling soft water. It can be flavoured with ketchup, Leamington sauce (See Sauces), Harvey’s sauce, and a little soy. Mode,—Slightly brown the meat and ham in the butter, but do not let them burn. When this is done, pour to it the water, and as the scum rises, take it off; when no more appears, add all the other ingredients, and let the soup simmer slowly by the fire for 6 hours without stirring it any more from the bottom ; take it off, and let it settle ; skim off all the fat you can, and pass it through a sieve or cloth. When perfectly cold you can remove all the fat, and leave the sediment untouched, which serves very nicely for thick gravies, hashes, &c. Time.— 7 hours. Average Cost, is. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 14 persons. Endive. (Pr. chicorde )—This plant belongs to the acetarious tribe of vegetables, and is supposed to have originally come from China and Japan. It was known to the ancients, but was not introduced to Eng- land till about the middle of the 16th century, it is consumed in large quantities by the French, and in London, in the neighbourhood of which it is grown in abundance. It is greatly used as a winter salad, as well as in soups and Stews. SNDIVS.