210 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 430.—BRILL. (Fr.—Barbue.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of salt to each gallon of water ; a little vinegar. Mode.—Clean the brill, cut off the fins, and rub it over with a little lemon-juice, to preserve its whiteness. Set the fish in sufficient warm water to cover it; throw in salt, in the above proportions, and a little vinegar, and bring it gradually to boil; simmer very gently at the side of the fire till the fish is done, which will be in about 10 minutes; but the time for boiling, of course, depends entirely on the size of the fish. Serve it on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon, parsley, horse- radish, and a little lobster coral sprinkled over the fish. cend lobster or shrimp sauce, or Dutch sauce and plain melted butter, to table with it. Time.—After the water boils, a small brill, 10 minutes ; a large brill, 15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, from 2 s. to 4s.; but when the market is plentifully supplied may be had from 25. each, of good size. Good all the year round. Best from August to April. the brill. The Brill.—This fish resembles the sole, but is broader, and, when large, is esteemed by many in a scarcely less degree than the turbot, whilst it is much cheaper. It is a fine fish, and is abundant in the London market. To Choose Brill.—The flesh of this fish, like that of turbot, should be of a yellowish tint, and should be chosen on account of its thickness. If the flesh has a bluish tint, it is not good. 431.—STEWED CARP. (Fr.—Carpe a I’ElevSe.) Ingredients.- 1 large carp, 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, half a teacup of stock, a glass of claret, a few mushrooms and small onions, some chives, thyme and parsley, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Mode.—Put into a stewpan the butter and onions; when brown, add the carp cut in thick slices, the stock, wine and seasoning. Stew till thoroughly done, and serve garnished with fried bread. Average Cost, 2s. $d. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 432.—FRIED CARP. (Fr— Carpe Frite.) Ingredients.—1 good-sized carp, lard or oil for frying, a little vinegar, parsley, thyme and laurel leaves, a grate of nutmeg, pepper and salt. Mode.—After cleaning, set aside the roe, split the fish down the back, and soak a little while m the vinegar, with the herbs and seasoning in it.