b28 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. and stew gently for rather more than half-an-hour. Dish the pigeons, strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, add the ketchup and port, give one boil, pour over the pigeons, and serve. Time.—Rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, qd. to is. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from April to September. The Fantail Pigeon —This curious variety is inferior, in point of size, to most of the other varieties, and is characterised by having a short, slender bill, pendent wings, and naked legs and feet, It has the power of erecting its tail in the manner of a turkey-cock ; during which action, especially when pay- ing court to its mate, it trembles or shakes, like the peacock when moving about with his train expanded and in full display. This power of erecting and spread- ing the tail is not confined to the male bird alone ; the female possesses the same power to an equal extent, and otherwise resembles the male in every respect. It is not very prolific, and seldom succeeds so well in the aviary or pigeon-house as most of the other kinds. THE FANTAIL PIGEON. The Jacobin Pigeon.—This variety, having the power to transmit to posterity a form precisely similar, with all its peculiar characters undiminished, is, among pigeon- fanciers, designated as of a pure or permanent race. It is distinguished by a remarkable ruff or frill of raised feathers, which, commencing behind the head and pro- ceeding down the neck and hreast, forms a kind of hood, not unlike that worn by a monk. From this circum- stance it has obtained its Gallic name of nonnaw capu- chin. In size it is one of the smallest of the domestic pigeons, and its form is light and elegant. It is a very productive species, and, having its flight considerably impeded hy the size and form of its hooded frill, keeps much at home, and is well adapted for the aviary or other buildings where pigeons are confined. The Turbit Pigeon.—This variety bears a strong re- semblance to the Jacobin, having a kind of frill in the fore part of its neck, occasioned by the breast feathers lying contrariwise and standing straight out. The species is classed in accordance with the colour of the shoulders, similarly as the Nuns are by the colour of their heads. Their characteristics of excellence are a full frill, short bill, and small round head. In Germany it is called the ruffle pigeon, in allusion to the feathers on its breast: and it has rarely any feathers on its feet. There is a peculiarity connected with this bird, which somewhat lowers it in the estimation of fanciers; it seldom rears more than one at a time, which, therefore, marks it as a bird rather for amusement than profit. The Barb Pigeon.—The name of this variety is a con- traction of Barbary, from which country it originally comes. It is both prolific and has excellent qualities as a nurse. The kind most esteemed is that of one uniform colour, that of bluc-black being preferable to any other. Speckled or mottled Barbs are esteemed the most com- mon of all pigeons. It is not unlike the Carrier pigeon, and, at a small distance, might easily be mistaken for the latter. It has a short beak and a small wattle. A spongy, pinky skin round the eyes is its chief character- istic, however, and this increases in size till the bird is three or four years old, This peculiarity is hardly dis- tinguishable in very young birds. TURBIT PIGEONS. JACOBIN PIGEON.