5-5 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. or open fire ranges, as may be preferred, by the patentee and manufacturer, Mr. T. J. Constantine, 61, Fleet Street, London, E.C., in sizes, ranging from 24 inches in height, 18 inches in width and 14 inches in depth, to 36 inches in height and depth, and 72 inches in width, at prices varying from £1 10s., to £45. All the necessary appliances for each range are included in the prices at which the ranges are supplied and the price for the largest range includes an extra boiler for steaming purposes, with steam gauges, safety valves, &c. Plate racks to suit the opening of the area of range top are not included in the prices of the ranges, but are charged from 16s. to £z, according to the size of range. (1.) Fuel and Heat Economy.—These ranges will burn the Anthracite smokeless coal or Welsh coal, which will not burn in ordinary fireplaces, but is chiefly used for engines and furnaces. This coal is less expensive than North country coal, and does not create so much smoke. The diminution of the smoke by the use of this coal, and the consumption of most, if not all, that the coal gives forth, with all gases, sul- phurous acid and products of combustion by means of the peculiar construction of the ranges, cause them to be re- garded as comparatively smoke- less and therefore economical and cleanly. Moreover every particle of heat is utilised, which effects a saving of fuel stated to be 75 per cent, but very little heat escaping up the chimney with the smoke or unconsumed fuel that may find its way there. A 42 inch "Treasure ” Range being tested daily for three months consecutively in 1873, when coals were 40s. per ton, it was found that the cost of cooking every day even when coals were at this unusually high price was no more than ifd., or, as nearly as possible is. per week. This shows that the “ Treasure ’’ Ranges are desirable on the score of economy ; indeed, it is said that in them five shillings’ worth of coal will do the work of twenty employed in heating an old-fashioned open range. (2.) Construction.—The ranges are self-contained cabinets in one piece, and do their work and duty well wherever they may be placed. They can stand anywhere; and being complete in themselves, they are always ready for use. They require no foundation, brickwork setting, or fixing by mason or bricklayer, like ordinary ranges, that are not complete until they have been built in with bricks, mortar and cement. It must be remembered, should the tenant of a house wish to put in a range for himself, that this very act of fixing has the effect of transferring all right in the stove from the tenant to the landlord, whereas the “ Treasure ’’ Range, being in one piece and requiring no brickwork, is so compact and portable that it is not only always ready for use but remains the property of the tenant, movable like any ordinary article of furniture. It will stand on the hearth, in front or at side of the ordinary range, if so desired. In addition to this, there are no complicated flues or dampers to be adjusted. The construction of the “ Treasure ” Range in the larger sizes is shown in the accompanying illus- tration in which the flue socket is at the top at the back ; and the tap to the boiler, which is also at the back of the range, on the right hand side. The range illustrated is 42 inches wide, 30 inches high, and 25 inches deep : the roaster, or