1066 Recipes for Making Ices and Confectionery. 2336.—PISTACHIO PRALINES. Ingredients.--1 lb. of pistachio nuts, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, rose-water. Mode.—Dissolve the loaf sugar in very little water, so that it can be formed into a ball. Add to this the blanched pistachio nuts; take the pan from the fire, stirring them till they have taken all the sugar; put them on again and boil to a caramel: put them then on a sieve, and sprinkle them with rose or orange-water, to flavour them. 2337.—LEMON PRALINES. Ingredients.—Lemons, sugar. Mode.—Pare some lemons, and cut the rind into pieces about an inch long and very narrow. Boil some syrup till it almost comes to a caramel, put in the lemon-shreds, stirring them about well with a large wooden spoon till cold. Set them on a sieve, shaking the loose sugar off. Keep very dry in boxes. 2338. -TO MAKE BARLEY-SUGAR. Ingredients.—To every lb. of sugar allow £ pint of water, £ the white of an egg. Mode.—Put the sugar into a well-tinned saucepan, with the water, and when the former is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, adding the well- beaten egg before the mixture gets warm, and stir it well together. When it boils, remove the scum as it rises, and keep it boiling until no more appears, and the1 syrup looks perfectly clear ; then strain it through a fine sieve or muslin bag, and put it back into the saucepan. Boil it again like caramel, until it is brittle when a little is dropped in a basin of cold water ; it is then sufficiently boiled. Add a little lemon-juice and a few drops of the essence of lemon, and let it stand for a minute or two. Have ready a marble slab or large dish rubbed over with salad-oil; pour the sugar on it, and cut it into strips with a pair of scissors ; these strips should then be twisted, and the barley-sugar stored away in a very dry place. It may be formed into lozenges or drops by dropping the sugar, in a very small quantity at a time, on to the oiled slab or dish. Time.—£ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 sticks. 2339. —TO MAKE EVERTON TOFFEE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 teacupful of water, £ lb. of butter, 6 drops of essence of lemon. Mode.—Put the water and sugar into a brass pan, and beat the butter to a cream. When the sugar is dissolved, add the butter, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire until it sets when a little is poured on to