638 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. About 10 minutes before serving, dredge lightly with flour, and baste well; when nicely frothed, send it to table immediately, with a little gravy in the dish, and some in a tureen. If at hand, a few watercresses may be placed round the dish as a garnish, or it may be larded. Time.—About 1 hour. Average Cost, 7s. to 8s. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—In full season from June to October. Note.—Choose a plump bird, and truss it in the following manner :—After it has been carefully plucked, drawn and singed, skin the neck, and fasten the head under the wing; turn the legs at the first joint, and bring the feet clcse to the thighs, as a woodcock should be trussed, and do not stuff it. The Feathers of the Turkey. Human ingenuity subjects almost every material to the pur. poses of ornament or use, and the feathers have been found adapted for more ends than one. The American Indians convert them into an elegant clothing, and, by twisting the inner ribs into a strong double string, with hemp, or the inner bark of the mulberry tree, work it like matting. This fabric has a very rich and glossy appearance, and is as fine as silk shag. The natives of Louisiana used to make fans of the tail; and four of that appendage joined together was formerly constructed into a parasol by the French. 1335 —TO BONE A TURKEY OR FOWL WITHOUT OPENING IT. (Miss Acton's Recipe.) After the fowl has been drawn and singed, wipe it inside and out with a clean cloth, but do not wash it. Take off the head, cut through the skin all round the first joint of the legs, and pull them from the fowl, to draw out the large tendons. Raise the flesh first from the lower part of the backbone, and a little also from the end of the breastbone, if necessary ; work the knife gradually to the socket of the thigh ; with the point of the knife detach the joint from it, take the end of the bone firmly in the fingers, and cut the flesh clean from it down to the next joint, round which pass the point of the knife carefully, and when the skin is loosened from it in every part, cut round the next bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it, till the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones of the other leg in the same manner; then detach the flesh from the back and breast bone sufficiently to enable you to reach the upper joints of the wings ; proceed with these as with the legs, but be especially careful not to pierce the skin of the second joint; it is usual to leave the pinions un- boned, in order to give more easily its natural form to the fowl when it is dressed. The merrythought and neck-bones may now easily be cut away, the back and side-bones taken out without being divided, and the breast- bone separated carefully from the flesh (which, as the work progresses, must be turned back from the bones upon the fowl, until it is completely inside out). After the one remaining bone is removed, draw the wings and legs back to their proper form, and turn the fowl right side out- wards.