1147 Yeast Cake. 2550.—WEBSTER CAKE. Ingredients.—£ cup of butter, 4 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 3 cups of flour, £ cup of milk, ^ cup of currants, nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking, powder. Mode.—Mix and beat the above ingredients till thoroughly blended, then put into a buttered mould, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, 8d. Seasonable at any time. 2551.-A NICE YEAST CAKE. Ingredients.—ij lb. of flour, % lb. of butter, £ pint of milk, table- spoonful of good yeast, 3 eggs, f lb. of currants, £ lb. of white moist sugar, 2 oz. of candied peel. Mode.—Put the milk and butter into a saucepan, and shake it round over a fire until the butter is melted, but do not allow the milk to get very hot. Put the flour into a basin, stir it to the milk and butter, the yeast, and eggs, which should be well beaten, and form the whole into a smooth dough. Let it stand in a warm place, covered with a cloth, to rise, and, when sufficiently risen, add the currants, sugar, and candied peel cut into thin slices. When all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, line 2 moderate-sized cake-tins with buttered paper, which should be about six inches higher than the tin ; pour in the mixture, let it stand to rise again for another half-hour, and then bake the cakes in a brisk oven for about hour. If the tops of them become too brown, cover them with paper until they are done through. A few drops of essence of lemon, or a little grated nutmeg, may be added when the flavour is liked. Time.—From 14 to hour. Average Cost, is. 10d. Sufficient to make 2 moderate-sized cakes. Seasonable at any time. 2551A.-YORKSHIRE GINGER CAKES. Ingredients.—3 eggs, \ pint of cream, i lb. of butter, | lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 2% oz. of ground ginger, 2 lbs. of flour, a little salt. Mode.—Whisk the eggs thoroughly, add the cream, and beat. Put these into a saucepan, stirring till warm ; add the butter, sugar and ginger, carefully stirring over a very moderate fire. When the butter has melted stir in the flour, adding salt, and make into a paste (the flour must be fine). Roll it out and cut it in cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 2s, 10d, Seasonable at any time