190 Recipes for Soups. turnips, 4 lbs. of common rice, or pearl barley ; £ lb. of salt, i oz.of black pepper, a few raspings, 6 gallons of water. Mode .—Cut up the meat in small pieces, break the bones, put them in a copper, with the 6 gallons of water, and stew for £ an hour. Cut up the vegetables, put them in with the sugar, and boil for 4 hours. Two hours before the soup is wanted, add the rice and raspings, and keep stirring till it is well mixed in the soup, which simmer gently. If the liquor reduces too much, fill up with water. Time.—hours. Average Cost, 1 \d. per quart. Note.—The above recipe was used in the winter of 1858 by the Editress, who made, each week, in her copper, 8 or 9 gallons of this soup for distribution amongst about a dozen families of the village near which she lives. The cost, as will be seen, was not great; but she has reason to believe that the soup was very much liked, and gave to the members of those families, a dish of warm, comforting food, in place of the cold meat and piece of bread which form, with too many cottagers, their usual meal; when, with a little more knowledge of the " cooking ” art, they might have, for less expense, a warm dish every day. 389.—ANOTHER USEFUL SOUP. Ingredients.—An ox-cheek, 4 carrots, 1 head of celery, 2 quarts of split peas. Mode.—Put the meat and vegetables into a soup-boiler with 3 gallons of water, but no salt. Let it simmer for 8 hours, then remove the meat from the bones, cut it up small and return to the pan, adding salt and pepper. Time.—10 hours. Average Cost, 2d. per quart. 390.—ECONOMICAL SOUP MADE FROM SHIN OF BEEF. Ingredients.—A shin of beef, 4 turnips, 2 carrots, 4 potatoes, ^ a cabbage, butter, 4 gallons of water. Mode.—Break up the shin of beef into 3 or 4 pieces, put a little butter into a pan large enough to hold all, then put in the shin, fry for 2 minutes, then add the water and simmer 5 hours. Let it continue to boil till it is reduced to gallons. Then add the turnips cut in pieces, grate the carrots, and crush down 4 cold boiled potatoes ; shred the cabbage finely and add to the soup Season with salt and cayenne. Skim the soup carefully as it boils, and when the vegetables are cooked, strain the soup and serve with fried bread cut in dice. Time.—7 to 8 hours. Average Cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient fur 16 persons.