vi Preface to New h'dition. It will not be surprising that a work so thoroughly planned and so admirably executed was found—with the exception of one or two repeti- tions—to contain nothing that could properly be omitted ; the editors accordingly are pleased to state that none of the recipes have been taken away. On the contrary, the book has been greatly enlarged. The size of the page has been increased, and 360 extra pages have been added; thus making the new book nearly half as large again as the former edition. In fact, no pains have been spared to make this standard work replete with the latest and fullest information on all matters relating to the home. Those interested in household economy will not fail to appreciate the tables of the relative value of various joints, fish and poultry. Each page of these tables represents many days of labour—labour not lost, however; for we are able to judge from the lists, not only the actua- and relative value of each item, but also how to provide to the best advantage. Country housewives, whose cooks, instead of the poulterers, have to prepare poultry and game for cooking, will see how practically “ Truss- ing” has been treated. Here, finding how impossible it is to teach the art without ocular demonstration, a series of illustrations has been intro- duced, taken from nature, representing each stage of the operations necessary to bring the birds, &c., into proper order for spit or pan. All travellers will be glad to find some of the nicest of the dishes found at good Continental tables brought home to them in the recipes that follow the observations on French, German and Italian cookery; while many will be interested in American and Colonial dishes. In the recipes for the latter will be found some foods not yet introduced here, as, for instance, the Australian wallaby and parrots, and the clams of American fame; but in this age of tinned meats it is not unlikely they may, within a short time, be brought to our English tables. Apropos of tinned meats, for which we most of us now and then find an absolute necessity, it will be seen that a great many recipes are given by which they can be used to the best advantage, and they will be often found to occur in the quickly-prepared dinners for every month in the year. Preceding these dinners, and also for every season, are the vegetarian meals, in which recipes are given for the dishes. With the now strong movement in favour of vegetarian diet, it is hoped that many will try how pleasantly some of these dishes will relieve the “ eternal beef and mutton ” of homely tables, and how well they aa:e adapted to the appe- tites of children and delicate persons, whose requirements in this and other directions are well considered in this new edition, in our Chapters on Invalid Cookery, Sick Nursing, and Mothers’, Nurses’ and Gover- nesses’ Duties.