Sponge Cake. 1141 Mode.—Break the 7 eggs, putting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Whisk the former, and mix with them the sugar, the grated lemon-rind, or any other flavouring to taste; beat them well together, and add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a froth. Put in the flour by degrees, continuing to beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, butter a mould, pour in the cake, savoy cake with and bake it from i£ to 1 £ hour. This is a very nice cake pistachios. for dessert, and may be iced for a supper-table, or cut into slices and spread with jam, which converts it into sandwiches. Time.—i£ to 1^ hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. 2535.-ALMOND SPONGE CAKE. (Good.) Ingredients.—Take 12 eggs (leave out the whites of 8), f lb. of sifted white sugar, 2 oz. of bitter almonds, 4 lb. of sifted flour. Mode.—Blanch the almonds and roll like a paste. While rolling them, wet them with rose-water. You blanch them by putting them in hot water, which will take the skin off. Break the eggs in a bowl and break them up with a beater. Add the sugar and beat until light and creamy, then beat the almonds in ; then add the flour, stir it lightly, bake in a square pan, and cross with a knife. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average Cost, ir. 3d. Seasonable at any time. SPONGE LOAF. 2536.-SPONGE CAKE. Ingredients.—The weight of 8 eggs in pounded loaf sugar, the weight of 5 in flour, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the eggs into one side of the scale, and take the weight of 8 in pounded loaf sugar, and the weight of 5 in good dry flour. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former, put them into a saucepan with the sugar, and let them remain over the fire until milk-warm, keeping them well stirred. Then put them into a basin, add the grated lemon-rind mixed with the brandy, and stir these well together, dredging in the flour very gradually. Whisk the whites of the eggs tp a very stiff froth, stir them to the SPONGE CAEE •