1030 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. divide them, and rub the salt well into the divisions; place them in a 1 pan, where they must remain for a week, turning them every other day; then put them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire until the salt has become perfectly dry; then arrange them in a jar. Pour over sufficient boiling vinegar to cover them, to which have been added the ingredients mentioned in the foregoing recipe ; tie down closely, and in about 9 months they will be fit for use. Seasonable.—The best time to make this is from November to April. Note.—After this pickle has been made from 4 to 5 months, the liquor may be strained and bottled, and will be found an excellent lemon ketchup. Lemon juloe. — Citric acid is the principal component part of lemon-juice, which, in addition to the agreeableness of its flavour, is also particularly cooling and grateful. It is, likewise, an antiscorbutic ; and this quality enhances its value. In order to combat the fatal effects of scurvy amongst the crews ot ships at sea, a regular allowance of lemon-juice is served out to the men ; and by this practice, the disease has almost entirely disappeared. By putting the juice into bottles, and pouring on the top sufficient oil to cover it, it may be preserved for a considerable time. Italy and Turkey export great quantities of it in this manner. 2232. -P ICKLED MUSHROOMS. (Fr.—Champignons Marines.) Ingredients.—Sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms ; to each quart of mushrooms, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 oz. of ground pepper, salt to taste. Mode.—Choose some nice young button-mushrooms for pickling, and rub off the skin with a piece of flannel and salt, and cut off the stalks. A quicker and easier method is to throw the small mushrooms into a pan of salted water, rinse them round quickly, take them out, and wipe them dry. If very large, take out the red inside, and reject the black ones, as they are too old. Put them in a stewpan, sprinkle salt over them, with pounded mace and pepper in the above proportion; shake them well over a clear fire until the liquor flows, and keep them there until it is all dried up again ; then add as much vinegar as will cover them ; just let it simmer for 1 minute, and store it away in stone jars for use. When cold, tie down with bladder and keep in a dry place; they will remain good for a length of time, and are generally considered delicious. Seasonable.—Make this the same time as ketchup, from the beginning of September to the middle of October. 2233. —MIXED PICKLE. (Fr.— Marinade.) (Very good,) Ingredients.—To each gallon of vinegar allow \ lb. of bruised ginger, \ lb. of mustard, \ lb. of salt, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, i£ oz. of turmeric, 1 oz. of ground black pepper, ^ oz. of cayenne, cauliflowers.