490 Recipes for Cooking Mutton and Lamb. bottom, and, when it is cooked, to brown it in a very hot oven for ten minutes The meat may be boned. Various Qualities of Mutton.-Mutton is, undoubtedly, the meat most generally used in families; and both by connoisseurs and medical men it stands first in favour, whether its fine flavour, digestible qualifications, or general wholesomeness be considered. Of all mutton, that iurnished by the South-Down sheep is the most highly esteemed ; it is also the dearest, on account of its scarcity, and the great demand for it. Therefore, if the house- keeper is told by the butcher that he has not any in his shop, it should not occasion dis- appointment to the purchaser. The London and other markets are chiefly supplied with sheep called hali-bieeds, which are a cross between the Down and Lincoln or Leicester. These balf-breeds make a greater weight of mutton than the true South-Downs, and, for this very desirable qualification, they are preferred by the great sheep-masters. The legs of this mutton range from 7 to n lbs. in weight; the shoulders, neck, or loins, about 6 to 9 lbs.; and if care is taken not to purchase it too fat, it will be found the most satisfactory and economical mutton that can be brought. 1075.—BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON. (Fr.—Gigot Braise aux Haricots de Soissons, aux Oignons.) Ingredients.— i small leg of mutton, 4 carrots, 3 onions, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a bunch of parsley, seasoning to taste, of pepper and salt, a few slices of bacon, a few veal trimmings, £ pint of gravy or water. Mode.—Line the bottom of a braising-pan with a few slices of bacon ; put in the carrots, onions, herbs, parsley, and seasoning, and over these place the mutton. Cover the whole with a few more slices of bacon and the veal trimmings, pour in the gravy or water, and stew very gently for 4 hours. Strain the gravy, reduce it to a glaze over a sharp fire, glaze the mutton with it, and send it to table ; place on a dish of white haricot beans boiled tender, or garnished with glazed onions. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, 5s. 6d. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Order of the Golden Fleece.—This order of knighthood was founded by Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy, in 1429, on the day of his marriage with the Princess Isabelle of Portugal. The number of the members was originally fixed at thirty-one. including the sovereign as the head and chief of the institution. In T516 Pope Leo X. consented to increase the number to fifty-two, including the head. In T700 the German Emperor Charles VI. and King Philip of Spain both laid claim to the order. The former, however, on leaving Spain, which he could not maintain by force of arms, took with him to Vienna the archives of the order, the inauguration of which he solemnised there in I7t3, with great magnificence : but Philip V. of Spain declared himself Grand Master, and formally protested, at the Congress of Cambrai (1721), against the pretensions of the emperor. The dispute, though subsequently settled by the intercession of France, England and Holland, was frequently renewed, until the order was tacitly introduced into both countries, and it now passes by the respective names of the Spanish or Austrian “ Order ef the Golden Fleece,” according to the country where it is issued. 1076.—AN EXCELLENT WAY TO COOK A BREAST OF MUTTON. (Fr. — Poitrine de Mouton aux Petits Pois.) Ingredients.—Breast of mutton, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, green peas.