44° Recipes for Cooking VeaL 980.—CURRIED VEAL. (Fr.—Veau a I’lndienne.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast veal, 4 onions, 2 apples sliced, 2 tablespoonfnls of curry-powder, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, £ pint of broth or water, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Slice the onions and apples, and fry them in a little butter; then take them out, cut the meat into neat cutlets, and fry these of a pale brown ; add the curry-powder and flour, put in the onion, apples, and a little broth or water, and stew gently till quite tender; add the lemon- juice, and serve with an edging of boiled rice. The curry may be ornamented with pickles, capsicums, and gherkins arranged prettily on the top. Time.—$ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, $d. Seasonable from March to October. 981.—STEWED VEAL. (Fr.—Veau a la Bourgeoise.) {Excellent) Ingredients.—2 to 3 lbs. of the loin or neck of veal, 10 or 12 young carrots, a bunch of green onions, 2 slices of lean bacon, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, a few new pota- toes, 1 pint of green peas. Mode.—Cut the veal into cutlets, trim them, and put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little butter; lay in the cutlets and fry .them a nice brown colour on both sides. Add the bacon, carrots, onions, spice, herbs, and seasoning; pour in about a pint of boiling water, and stew gently for 2 hours on a very slow fire. When done, skim off the fat, take out the herbs, and flavour the gravy with a little tomato sauce and ketchup. Have ready the peas and potatoes, boiled separately; put them with the veal, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from June to August with peasrather earlier when these are omitted. 982.—SCOTCH COLLOPS. (Fr— Escalopes k I’Ecossaise.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast veal, a little butter, flour, + pint of water, 1 onion, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- juice, ^ teaspoonful of finely minced lemon peel, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the veal the same thickness as for cutlets, rather larger than a crown piece; flour the meat well, and fry a light brown in butter J