1578 The Doctor. Symptoms.—It is difficult to say how long the disease may be incubating in the system before it appears, but the period is certainly not constant, and seems to vary from a few hours to several days. The onset is marked by a severe head- j ache, loss of appetite and langour, and aching of the limbs. For three or four days the patient gets worse, being unable to get about, and feeling chilly and prostrate: he then is worse at nights, and restless; the skin is hot, the tongue coated ; there is thirst and sometimes vomiting. The patient then lies prostrate on his back, with a dull and weary, if not stupid look; the eyes are suffused and watery, and a dusky flush overspreads the face. As the disease progresses, the eyes are half shut and the mouth open ; the tongue dry, brown or black, and marked with cracks. The temperature rises from the first, and reaches 103° or 104° Fahrenheit by the middle of the first week; the highest temperature reached in the fever is seldom less than 105°, although it may be higher. The fever may slightly abate, in favourable cases, about the ninth or tenth day ; no marked fall, however, takes place until the end of the second week, and gene- rally on the fourteenth day, when defervescence may take place suddenly, and the normal temperature be reached in twenty-four hours, but more commonly it takes two or three days. A rash appears in nearly every case. Sometimes it looks as if it were a general mottling just beneath the skin, or distinct spots may appear of small size and purplish colour. The rash appears on the fourth or fifth day, rarely later ; it comes on the back of the wrists first, in the armpits, and over the epigastrium ; then it more or less covers the trunk; it seldom comes on the face and neck. Duration.—The duration of typhus may be from three to twenty-one days, but about fourteen or fifteen days is the average time. Unlike typhoid fever, there is no relapse, so that when once the temperature has come down, the best hopes may be entertained. Treatment.—Have the patient placed in a large and well-ventilated room, so that draughts may be avoided : he should always have the bed so placed that the light will not fall upon his face. All curtains, &c., should be removed, the bed should not be too soft, and a draw-sheet or mackintosh must be put under the patient. He should not be allowed to exert himself at all. The greatest cleanliness must be observed, and all excreta should be at once removed, anti- septics being placed in the vessel, and all soiled linen being put in a tub of water in which there is carbolic acid, Condy’s fluid, or other disenfectant. Bed- sores are apt to form on the back, so that great care is necessary on the part of the nurse. All creases of sheets should be smoothed, and the back rubbed with Balsam of Peru or lavender water, but a water-bed or cushion is better still. All noises must be stopped, and great quiet enjoined. Milk must be the chief article of diet, and is best given cold ; an egg or two may be beaten up in it, and three or four pints of milk may be given in the twenty-four hours; this must be done regularly every two hours in equal quantities, and more especially must this be done at night or in the early morning when the prostration is greatest. Beef-tea and broths, jellies, extract of beef, custards, &c., may be given if the patient can take them and wants them. For drinks in the early stage, lemonade, cold tea, soda-water, &c., may be given, but effervescent drinks must be given sparingly. If stimulants are necessary, the kind and quantity will be specified by the medical attendant. When the crisis has passed and the tongue cleans, some boiled mutton or a sole may be given ; also jellies, light puddings, custards, &c. A trip in the country, plenty of good food, and fresh air, will com- plete a cure.