Minced Fowl. 649 elastic and glossy. The most useful cock is generally the greatest tyrant, who struts among his hens despotically, with his head erect and his eyes ever watchful. There is likely to be handsomer and stronger chicks in a house where a bold, active—even savage—bird reigns than where the lord of the hen-house is a weak, meek creature, who bears the abuse and peckings of his wives without a remonstrance. We much prefer dark-coloured cock-birds to those of light plumage. A cock, to be handsome, should be of middling size; his bill should be short, comb bright-red, wattles large, breast broad, and wings strong. His head should be rather small than otherwise, his legs short and sturdy, and his spurs well-formed ; his feathers should be short and close, and the more frequently and heartily he crows, the better father be is likely to become. Thecommon error of choosing hens above the ordinary stature of their respective varieties should be avoided, as the best breeding hens are those of medium size. 1351.—MINCED FOWL WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE. (Fr.—Volaille a la Bechamel.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 6 tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce, No. 665, 6 tablespoonfuls of white stock, No. 278, the white of 1 egg, bread-crumbs, clarified butter. Mode.—Take the remains of roast fowl, mince the white meat very small, and put it into a stewpan with the bechamel and stock; stir it well over the fire, and just let it boil up. Pour the mince into a dish, beat up the white of egg, spread it over, and strew on it a few grated bread-crumbs; pour a very little clarified butter on the whole, and brown either before the fire or with a salamander. This should be served in a silver dish, if at hand. Time.—2 or 3 minutes to simmer in the sauce. Seasonable at any time. The Best Way to Fatten Fowls.—The barn-door fowl is in itself a complete refutation Of the cramming and dungeon policy of feeding practised by some. This fowl, which has the common run of the farmyard, living on dairy scraps and oftal from the stable, begins to grow tat at threshing time. He has his fill of the finest corn ; he has his fill of fresh air and natural exercise, and at last he comes smoking to the table—a dish for the gods. In the matter of unnaturally stuffing and confining fowls, Mowbray is exactly of our opinion. “ The London chicken-butchers, as they are termed, are said to be, of all others, the most expeditious and dexterous feeders, putting up a coop of fowls and making them thoroughly fat within the space of a fortnight, using much grease, and that perhaps not of the most delicate kind, in the food. In this way I have no boasts to make, having always found it necessary to allow a consider- able number of weeks for the purpose of making fowls fat in coops. In the common way this business is often badly managed, fowls being huddled together in a small coop, tearing each other to pieces, instead of enjoying that repose which alone can ensure the wished-for object— irregularly fed and cleaned, until they become so stenched and poisoned in their own excre- ment, that their flesh actually smells and tastes when smoking upon the table." Sussex pro- duces the fattest and largest poultry of any county in England, and the fatting process there most common is to give them a gruel made of pot-liquor and bruised oats, with which are mixed hog's grease, sugar and milk. The fowls are kept very warm, and crammed morning and night. They are put into the coop, and kept there two or three days before the cramming begins, and then it is continued for a fortnight, and the birds are sent to market. 1352.-RAGOUT OF FOWL. (Fr.—RagoOt de Volaille.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 2 shalots, 2 blades of mace, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 or 3 slices of lean ham, 1 pint of stock or water, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, £ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of butter.