Home-Made Bread. log i and mix about half a pint of the yeast with them ; let this mixture stand all day, and lay the bread to rise the night before it is wanted. Time.—20 minutes to boil the hops and water. Average Cost, 3d. per pint. Sufficient.—k pint of this yeast for a peck of flour, or rather more. 2407.—TO MAKE GOOD HOME-MADE BREAD. (Miss Actons Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 quartern of flour, 1 large tablespoonful of solid brewer’s yeast, or nearly 1 oz. of fresh German yeast, 1^ to i£ pint of warm milk-and-water, salt. Mode.—Put the flour and salt into a large earthenware bowl or deep pan; then, with a strong metal or wooden spoon, hollow out the middle; but do not clear it entirely away from the bottom of the pan, as, in that case, the sponge (or leaven, as it was formerly termed) would stick to it, which it ought not to do. Next, take either a large tablespoonful of brewer’s yeast which has been rendered solid by mixing it with plenty of cold water, and letting it afterwards stand to settle for a cottage lo/f. day and a night; or nearly an ounce of German yeast ; put it into a large basin, and proceed to mix it, so that it shall be as smooth as cream, with three-quarters of a pint of warm milk-and-water, or with water only, though even a very little milk will much improve the bread. Pour the yeast into the hole made in the flour, and stir into it as much of that which lies round it as will make a thick batter, in which there must be no lumps. Strew plenty of flour on the top; tin bread. throw a thick clean cloth over, and set it where the air is warm ; but do not place it upon the kitchen fender, for it will become too much heated there. Look at it from time to time : when it has been laid for nearly an hour, and when the yeast has risen and broken through the flour, so that bubbles appear in it, you will know that it is ready to be made up into dough. Then place the pan on a strong chair, or dresser, or table, of convenient height; pour into the sponge the remainder of the warm milk-and-water; stir into it as much of the flour as you can with the spoon : then wipe it out clean with your fingers, and lay it aside. Next take plenty of the remaining flour, throw it on the top of the leaven, and begin, with the knuckles of both hands, to knead it well. When the flour is nearly all kneaded in, begin to draw the edges of the dough towards the middle, in order to mix the whole thoroughly; and when it is free from flour, and lumps, and crumbs, and does not stick to the hands when touched, it will be done, and may again