1467 Duties of the Coachman. doors are usually so arranged that even a lady may let herself out, if she wishes to, from the inside. The coachman’s duties are to avoid everything approaching an accident, and all his attention is required to guide his horses. The pace at which he drives will depend upon his orders—in all probability a moderate pace of seven or eight miles an hour ; less speed is injurious to the horses, getting them into lazy and sluggish habits; for it is wonderful how soon these are acquired by some horses. The writer was once employed to purchase a horse, for a country friend, and he picked a very handsome gelding out of Collins’s stables, which seemed to answer to his friend's wants. It was duly committed to the coachman who was to drive it, after some very successful trials in harness and out of it, and seemed likely to give great satisfaction. After a time, the friend got tired of his carriage, and gave it up ; as the easiest mode of getting rid of the horse, it was sent up to the writer’s stables—a present. Only twelve months had elapsed ; the horse was as handsome as ever, with plenty of flesh, and a sleek glossy coat, and he was thankfully enough received ; but, on trial, it was found that a stupid coachman, who was imbued with one of their old maxims, that “it’s the pace that kills,’’ had driven the horse, capable of doing bis nine miles an hour with ease, at a jog-trot of four miles, or four-and-a-half; and now, no persuasion of f’r a whip could get more out of him. After many unsuccessful efforts to bring him back to his pace, in one of which a breakdown occurred, under the hands of a professional trainer, he was sent to the hammer, and sold for a sum that did not pay for the attempt to break him in. This maxim, therefore, that “ it’s the pace that kills,” is alto- gether fallacious in the moderate sense in which we are viewing it. In the old coaching days, indeed, when the Shrewsbury “Wonder” drove into the inn-yard while the clock was striking, week after week and month after month, with unerring regularity, twenty-seven hours to a hundred and sixty-two miles ; when the “ Quicksilver ” mail was timed to eleven miles an hour between London and Plymouth, with a fine of ^5 to the driver if behind time; when the Brighton “Age,” “tool'd” and horsed by the late Mr. Stevenson, used to dash round the square as the "ifth hour was striking, having stopped at the half- way house while his servant handed a sandwich and a glass of sherry to his passengers—then the pace was indeed “ killing.” But the truth^ is, horses that are driven at a jog-trot pace lose that elan with which a good driver can inspire them, and they are left to do their work by mere weight and muscle; therefore unless he has contrary orders, a good driver will choose a smart pace, but not enough to make his horses sweat; on level roads this should never be seen. The true coachman's hands are so delicate and gentle, that the mere weight of the reins is felt on the bit, and the directions are indicated by a turn of the wrist rather than by a pull ; the horses are guided and encouraged, and only pulled up when they exceed their intended pace, or in the event of a stumble ; for there is a strong though gentle hand on the reins. THE COACHMAN. 3252. In Choosing his horses every master will see that they are pro- perly paired—that their paces are about equal. When their habits differ it is the coachman’s duty to discover how he can, with least annoyance to the horses, get that pace out of them. Some horses have been accustomed to be driven on the check, and the curb irritates them ; others, with harder mouths, cannot be con- trolled with the slight leverage this affords; he must, therefore, accommodate the horses as he best can. The reins should always be held so that the horses are