Preserved Water Melon Rind. 1261 make a syrup of the remainder of the sugar and the lemon juice; when it is boiling throw in the fruit, and boil them quickly, adding a few of the chopped kernels for flavouring; then remove the gallipot from the rice, and put a layer of apricot marmalade at the bottom of the hollow with a little of the syrup, and pile the fruit in the shape of a pyramid on that; the re- mainder of the kernels may be used for garnishing the rice, and stuck in here and there. Time for boiling the apricots, 5 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 2863.-PEACH AND PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—6 lbs. of peaches, weighed after paring and stoning; : good-sized ripe pine, 6 lbs. of sugar, 3 lemons, water. Mode.—Crack half the stones and stew the kernels in a little water. Put the peaches and pine cut up in a stewpan and heat slowly, stirring them well up now and then, boil for three-quarters of an hour; add the sugar, boil for 10 minutes and skim well. Squeeze the juice from the lemons and add with the water in which the kernels have been boiled, and stew all for 15 minutes. Pour into air-tight tins. Time.—i| hour. Seasonable.—Make this marmalade when fruit is plentiful. 2864—PRESERVED WATER MELON RIND. Ingredients.—Water melon, syrup made from loaf sugar, lemon-juice, ginger, vine leaves, water, alum. Mode.—Pare off the skin and mince the rind of the melon, cut it in pieces and lay it in a stewpan between* two layers of vine leaves strewn with a little powdered alum, with enough water to barely cover the upper layer of leaves. Cover the pan and let it steam, but not boil, for 2% hours, theli take out the rind and put it into cold water for 3 to 4 hours. The water should be changed twice. Make some rather thick syrup, put in the melon rind and simmer about 1 hour; take out the rind, lay it on a large dish in the sun, and when cool repeat the process. Some hours later put the syrup again into the pan, flavouring it with the lemon and ginger, and boil till thick. Fill some jars with the rind, pour over syrup, and when coo tie down. Seasonable in cummer. APRICOT AND JELLY.