Recipes for Soups. i44 288.—BAKED SOUP. Ingredients.—I lb. of any kind of meat, any trimmings or odd pieces ; 2 onions, 2 carrots, x oz. of l'ice, 1 pint of split peas, pepper and salt to taste, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut the meat and vegetables in slices ; add to them the rice and peas; season with pepper and salt. Put the whole in a jar, fill up with the water, cover very closely, and bake for 4 hours. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost, 3%d. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. Note.—This will be found a very cheap and wholesome soup, and will be convenient in those cases where baking is more easily performed than boiling. 289.—BARLEY SOUP. (Fr.—Potage d’Orge.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, \ lb. of pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley, 4 onions, 6 potatoes, salt and pepper, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Put in all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 5d. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable for winter. Barley.—This, in the order of cereal grasses, is in Britain, the next plant to wheat in point of value, and exhibits several species and varieties. From what country it comes originally is not known ; but it was cultivated in the earliest ages of antiquity, as the Egyptians were afflicted with the loss of it in the ear in the time of Moses. It was a favourite grain with the Athenians, but it was esteemed as an ignominious food by the Romans. Notwithstanding this, however, it was much used by them ; it was in former times by the English, and still is, in the Border counties, in Cornwall, and also in Wales. In other parts of England, it is used mostly for malting purposes. It is less nutritive than wheat; and in ioo parts, has of starch 79, gluten 6, saccharine matter 7, husk 8. It is, however, a lighter and less stimulating food than wheat, which renders a decoction of it well adapted for invalids whose digestion is weak. 290—BEAN SOUP. (Fr.—Potage aux Haricots rouges.) Ingredients.—I pint black beans, i lemon, i glass of claret, cloves, 2 quarts of medium stock, No. 273. Mode.—Soak the beans overnight; in the morning strain off the water and put them into a stewpan, with the stock and a few cloves. Boil for 4 or 5 hours half an hour before serving, mash the beans and strain the whole through a sieve. Let it get hot again, then pour in the claret, slice the lemon into the soup, and serve. Time.—5 hours. Average Cost, is 2d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. BARLEY.