742 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. table with this dish : they should be laid round and on the cabbage, as a garnish. Time,—Rather more than i hour. Average Cost, 6d. each. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from September to January. The Wild Cabbage, or Colewort.—This plant, as it is found on the sea-cliffs of England, pre- sents us with the origin of the cabbage tribe in its simplest and normal form. In this state it is the true collet, or colewort, although the name is now applied to any young cabbage which has a loose and open heart. 1553- — BOILED CARROTS. (Fr — Carottes au Naturel.) Ingredients.—To each £ gallon of water allow i heaped tablespoonful of salt; carrots. Mode.—Cut off the green tops, wash and scrape the carrots, and, should there be any black specks, remove them. If very large, cut them in halves, divide them lengthwise into four pieces, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion ; let them boil until tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork into them : dish, and serve very hot. This vegetable is an indispensable accompaniment to boiled beef. When thus served, it is usually boiled with the beef; a few carrots are placed round the dish as a garnish, and the re- mainder sent to table in a vegetable dish. Young carrots do not require nearly so much boiling, nor should they be divided ; they make a nice addition to stewed veal, &c. Time.—Large carrots, to 2\ hours; young ones, about £ hour. Average Cost, 6cl. to 8d. per bunch. Sufficient.—4 large carrots for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Young carrots, from April to June; old ones, at any time. Origin of the Carrot.—In its wild state, this vegetable is found plentifully in Britain, both in cultivated lands and by waysides, and is known by the name of bird’s-nest, from its umbels of fruit becoming incurved from a hollow cup, like a bird’s-nest. In this state its root is whitish, slender and bard, with an acrid, disagreeable taste, and a strong aromatic smell, and was formerly used as an aperient. When cultivated.it is reddish, thick, fleshy, with a pleasant odour, and a peculiar, sweet, mucilaginous taste. The carrot is said by naturalists not to contain much nourishing matter, and, generally speaking, is somewhat difficult of digestion. 1554— TO DRESS CARROTS IN THE GERMAN WAY. (Fr.—Carottes a I’Allemande.) Ingredients.—8 large carrots, 3 oz. of butter, salt to taste, a very little grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, 1 dessert- spoonful of minced onion, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 tablespoonful of flour. CARROTS.