1536 Management of Nurseiy and Sick-Room. 3444. The children’s hour should be an institution [in every household, and, while to the young folks it should be the happiest time in the day, to the attendants it is a great rest and relief. Let the children then bring their little troubles and sorrows to mother to be set right and comforted, let praise be given for little tasks well done, disputes be settled, help and suggestions given for either work or play, and let a game or tale (the latter told, not read) conclude the happy hour. Should this, as it often happens, be just the time generally given to afternoon tea, let the little ones bring this to their mother and wait upon her as children love to do. She will not find an hour wasted in this way, even if it be one hard to spare. 3445. Children’s Amusements. —In spite of the fact that children have far more, and more beautiful, toys with every advancing year, we venture to assert that it is just as difficult to amuse them as ever it was. A magnificently-dressed waxen baby seems to afford no more delight than a shabbily-dressed old one, and BLIND man's BUFF. the most complete and perfect of expensive toys, be it what it may, lasts no longer than a shilling one in destructive little hands. Children often get surfeited with playthings. They are allowed to have all or any when they like, so they mix them up and do not appreciate them in the least, however beautiful they may be. The best plan is to let them have but one at a time, and directly they weary of it make them put it away. If it be anything that they can improve or add to, encourage them to do so , if it be a broken toy, help them to mend it; if it be a doll, let the possessor be often making something fresh to add to its wardrobe. Play- things are often too complete when given to children. Dolls are dressed, boats are fully rigged, horses are harnessed, dolls houses are as well-fitted as real ones, so that there is nothing left to be done by the little ones to whom contriving and making are pleasures in themselves. 3446. Games for' children should be found out of doors as much as possible when the weather is fit for them to be exposed to it, running and playing comes more natural to them than walking like their elders, and in these days of high pressure education, it is most essential that when released from the, school-