Black-Currant Jelly. 99! Time.—10 minutes to boil the fruit and water; 45 minutes with the sugar. Average Cost, from 6d. to 8d. for a pot capable of holding 1 lb. Sufficient.—Allow from 6 to 7 quarts of currants to make 1 dozen pots of jam, each pot to hold 1 lb. Seasonable.—Make this in July. 2139.—ECONOMICAL METHOD OF PRESERVING MORELLA CHERRIES. Ingredients.—Ripe cherries, £ lb. of brown sugar to every pound of fruit. Mode.—Stone the fruit and weigh it and the juice, then boil for i£ hour; then add the sugar and boil another hour and a half. Stir them occasionally to prevent their burning. They are excellent for pies, and should be stirred for a day or two to keep the syrup from settling at the bottom. Put them in rather small jars, for the preserve will become acid if exposed to the air when the jar is opened, if not soon used. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, is. per lb. Seasonable in August and September. 2140.—BLACK-CURRANT JELLY. Ingredients.—Black currants; 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Strip the currants from the stalks, which may be done in an expeditious manner by holding the bunch in one hand and passing a small silver fork down the currants ; they will then readily fall from the stalks. Put them into ajar, place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer them until their juice is extracted ; then strain them, and to every pint of juice allow the above proportion of sugar and water ; stir these ingredients together cold until the sugar is dissolved ; place the preserving-pan on the fire and boil the jelly for about half an hour, reckoning from the time it commences to boil all over, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. If the jelly becomes firm when a little is put on a plate, it is done ; it should then be put into small pots, and covered the same as the jam in recipe No. 2138. If the jelly is wanted very clear, the fruit should not be squeezed dry ; but of course, so much juice will not be obtained. If the fruit is not much squeezed, it may be converted into a jam for immediate eating, by boiling it with a little common sugar ; this answers very well for a nursery preserve. Time.—About f hour to extract the juice; £ hour to boil the jelly. Average Cost, from 8d. to 10d. per |-lb. pot. Sufficient.—From 3 pints to 2 quarts of fruit should yield a pint of juice. Seasonable.—Make this in July.