836 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. basin and serve. The pudding may be garnished with red-currant jelly, and sweet sauce may be sent to table with it. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1762.—CUSTARD PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of maizena, 1 quart of milk, 1 cupful of sugar, 3 eggs, sherry, jam. Mode.—Heat the milk to near boiling, add the maizena, previously dissolved in a part of the milk, then add the eggs, well beaten, with the sugar; let it boil for 5 minutes, stirring briskly; flavour according to taste. Put a layer of cake, soaked in sherry, at the bottom of a pie-dish, or deep glass dish, then a layer of strawberry jam, then pour the custard over, and set it by to cool. It makes a delicious dish. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1763.-DAMSON TART. Ingredients.—pint of damsons, £ lb. of moist sugar, £ lb. of short or puff-crust, No. 1680, 1675. Mode.—Put the damsons, with the sugar between them, into a deep pie-dish, in the midst of which place a small cup or jar turned upside down; pile the fruit high in the middle, line the edges of the dish with short or puff-crust, whichever may be preferred ; put on the cover, orna- ment the edges, and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour in a good oven. If puff-crust is used, about 10 minutes before the pie is done, take it out of the oven, brush it over with the white of an egg beaten to a froth with the blade of a knife; strew some sifted sugar over, and a few drops of water, and put the tart back to finish baking; with short crust, a little plain sifted sugar sprinkled over, is all that will be required. Time.—i to £ hour. Average Cost, ioff. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in September and October. Damsons.—Whether for jam, jelly, pie, pudding, water, ice, wine, dried fruit or preserved, the damson, or damascene (for it was originally brought from Damascus, whence its name), is invaluable. It combines sugary and acid qualities in happy proportions, when full ripe. It is a fruit easily cultivated ; and, if budded nine inches from the ground on vigorous stocks, it will grow several feet high in the first year, and make fine standards in the year following. Amongst the list of the best sorts of baking plums, the damson stands first, not only on account of the abundance of its juice, but also on account of its soon softening. Because of the roughness of its flavour, it requires a large quantity of sugar, DAMSONS.