1568 The Doctor. about four and a half ounces of dry nitrogenous, three ounces of fatty, and fifteen ounces of sugary and starchy food, besides an ounce of saline matter. Under ordinary circumstances, the penalty for taking less than this amount of food is loss of flesh and strength, more or less rapid in proportion to the degree in which economy of nutriment, forced or otherwise, is practised. The penalty for eating more than these quantities is derangement of the stomach, liver and intestines by overloading them, and a consequent production of dyspepsia, biliousness, diarrhoea, or constipation, with their innumerable attendant evils, which, more perhaps, than any other class of influences, prevent the attainment of long life. As a rule, women need about nine-tenths of the nourishment requisite for men; boys of sixteen, about the same as women ; and children of ten years half the amount necessary for adults. Individual peculiarities, whether temporary or permanent, should be studied and conformed to with the utmost care. 3530. Quantity of Food.—The quantity of food taken into the stomach at different meals is a matter of great moment. Speaking generally, the morning meal should comprise one-third of the meat and two-sevenths of the starchy nutriment; dinner should include the remaining two-thirds of the meat and three-sevenths of the starchy materials; and the evening repast consist of the last two-sevenths of the saccharine and starchy matters. Most adults and nearly all children and old people, must either be careful of diet or be soundly chastised for their neglect. Mental anxiety or labour, as well as bodily exertion, should be avoided during and for half an hour after a full repast. Lighter meals may be advantageously followed by gentle exercise, such as walking or moderate work. Complete mastication of the food is vitally important to health and long life. 3531. Exercise.—Exercise, in the strict signification of the word, means the performance of its function by any and every organ of the body. As usually employed, however, it signifies the action of the muscles under control of the will. The most important effect of exercise is to be seen in the lungs when the circulation of the blood is hurried much above the ordinary rate. As a con- sequence of this greater influx of blood to be oxygenated in the air-cells, the quantity of air inspired, and the amount of carbonic acid exhaled, are both largely increased. During exertion no clothing should be worn which interferes with the free play of the chest, and a larger amount of carbon should be furnished in the nourish- ment. Muscular exertion very speedily increases the force and frequency of the heart’s pulsations; and the amount of blood flowing through all parts of the body, including the heart itself, in a given time is much augmented. Severe muscular exertion increases the flow of blood in the small blood-vessels of the skin, and causes a profuse discharge of perspiration, which may be even doubled or trebled in amount. During active exercise there is little danger of chill; but immediately afterwards, and also during the intervals of rest, the skin should be so warmly protected as to prevent the least coolness of the surface. For this purpose flannel is by far the best covering. Moderate exercise causes the muscles employed to increase in size, become harder and respond more readily to the commands of the will; but if the exercise is too prolonged, or excessive, the opposite effect is produced, and they begin to soften and waste. Deficiency of exercise is apt to lead to weakening of the heart’s action, from a change of the muscular structure into fat (fatty degeneration).