7io Vegetarian Recipes. Mode—Strain the beans, thicken the liquor with flour, or flour and butter, add the tomato sauce, and let it boil. Put in the beans, and serve as soon as it is hot. 1468.—BREAD CUTLETS. Ingredients.—Slices of bread, milk, nutmeg, pepper, chopped parsley, herbs and lemon-peel, egg and bread-crumbs, oil to fry. Mode.—Cut slices of bread of a suitable shape and about three- quarters of an inch thick. Soak them in a little milk on a plate, but not so long that they break. Mix the parsley, herbs, lemon-peel, spice and bread-crumbs. Break the egg on a plate, dip each slice into it and then in the crumbs, and fry at once in a frying-pan. Drain on paper, and serve hot. 1469.—CROQUETTES OF HOMINY. Ingredients.—I breakfastcupful of hominy, 1 quart of milk, 1 0z. of butter, 2 eggs, salt, cayenne to taste, bread-crumbs, oil to fry. Mode.—Soak the hominy in water all night, and next morning boil it in the milk till tender. Let it cool, add the butter, 1 egg, and seasoning. When quite cold shape it in balls, egg-and-bread-crumb each, fry in a saucepan of oil, and serve with tomato or onion sauce round. 1470.-CARROT PUDDING. Ingredients.—Boiled carrots, half their bulk in bread-crumbs, 1 or 2 eggs, pepper and salt, 2 oz. of butter, white sauce. Mode.—Boil some carrots until soft, and either chop them small or rub them through a sieve, add the crumbs and butter, and eggs enough to bind the whole together, with seasoning to taste. If eggs are not used, a couple of tablespoonfuls of flour and a little milk should be put in. Butter a pudding-basin, put in the mixture, steam for an hour or an hour and a half, according to size, turn it out and serve hot with white sauce poured round. Note.—This can be made with other vegetables. Chopped turnips or cauli- flowers are very good mixed with the carrot. 1471.—FORCEMEAT FRITTERS. (Mrs.Brother ton's Recipe.) Ingredients.—8 oz. of bread-crumbs, 3 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, f pint of cream, 1 oz. of chopped parsley, £ oz. of leeks, ^ oz. of sweet marjoram, winter savory and lemon thyme, mixed. Mode,—Rub the butter into the bread - crumbs; add the parsley, leeks