Baked Scallops. 25.3 537.-SALMON JELLY. Ingredients.—1 quart of any savoury jelly, clear or thick, and stiff enough to turn out; 1 tin of salmon, 2 or 3 hard boiled eggs, a few slices of beetroot or carrot boiled, parsley chopped or in tiny sprigs. Mode.—Oil a jelly mould. Turn out the tin of salmon, and reserve the unbroken pieces for the outside of the mould, and what is broken for the centre, rub the yolks of the eggs through a wire sieve, cut the whites into any devices you may like, and stamp out the beetroot with a paste cutter. Then begin and set the fish, jelly, etc., in layers in the mould, letting each layer of jelly cool before the next goes in. This is a good supper or luncheon dish. Time.—1 hour to prepare and set. Average Cost, without jelly, 10d. Seasonable at any time. 538.—FRIED SALMON. (Fr.—Salmon Frit.) (Jewish Recipe.) Ingredients.—salmon, small flask olive oil. Mode.—Pour the oil into a small but deep pan and set over a clear fire, and when it ceases to bubble, put in the salmon which has been cleaned and well dried and fry it gently till it is thoroughly cooked through. It should be only a pale bright brown, and when this is arrived at, it will be necessary to raise the pan from the fire so as to prevent it getting darker. When thoroughly done, drain and leave it to get cold when it should be served upon a fish paper and garnished with parsley. Time.—About i hour to cook the fish. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from April to August. 539.—SCALLOPS. Ingredients.—1^ doz. scallops, a cupful of bread-crumbs, 1 oz. butter, cayenne and salt, a little chopped parsley, a squeeze of lemon. Mode.—Trim the fish by cutting off the beards and black parts, clean 6 shells, butter them and strew in a few bread-crumbs, put 3 scallops in sach, season them with the cayenne and chopped parsley, and a drop or 'two of lemon juice. Put a little pepper and salt with the bread-crumbs and cover the scallops with them, put little pieces of butter on the top and bake for about 20 minutes. Average Cost, is. Seasonable from January to June. Sufficient for 6 persons. Note.—In choosing scallops be sure that they are perfectly fresh, which will %>e indicated by the flesh being firm and very white and the roe a bright orange ■colour.