Cracker Pudding. 1253 2838.—SCALLOPED TOMATOES. Ingredients.—Tomatoes, bread-crumbs, butter, sugar, pepper and salt. Mode.—Peel the tomatoes, cut them in slices and put them in a pud- ding-dish in layers, with a forcemeat of the other ingredients, in which the sugar must be used very sparingly. Fill the dish in this way, letting the top layer be tomatoes with a small piece of butter upon each slice. Scatter over a few bread-crumbs and bake covered with a tin plate for half an hour, then remove the plate and brown the top. This dish may be varied by substituting finely-chopped green corn, fat pork and onion for the forcemeat. Time.—f hour. Seasonable from June to October. *339.—CRACKER PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of beef suet, 1 cup of cracker-crumbs, 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, 4 eggs, 3 cups of milk, 4- teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—Soak the cracker in the milk while preparing the other ingredi- ents. Beat the eggs with the sugar, chop the suet as fine as possible, mix the egg and sugar with the cracker, then the suet and salt, and work to a smooth paste. Butter a pudding dish and pour in the mixture and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with fruit sauce. Time.—i hour. Seasonable at any time. 2840.—HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. Ingredients.—I pint of huckleberries, 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of soda, £ teaspoonful of cream of tartar, flour sufficient to make a thick batter. Mode .—Mix the cream of tartar with the flour, and dissolve the soda in hot water, make a thick batter with the other ingredients. Pick and mash the berries, dredge them with flour and stir into the batter. Boil 1 hour in a butteaed mould and serve hot with sweet sauce. Time.—1 hour. Seasonable from July to September. Note.—Huckleberries, or whortleberries as we call them, grow well in England, and in some counties are used, as in America, for pies and puddings. 2841.-MOLASSES CANDY. Ingredients.—1 quart of good molasses, 1 gill of vinegar, 1 cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, 1 teaspoonful of soda or saleratifs. Mode.—Dissolve the sugar in the vinegar, mix with the molasses and boil, stirring frequently until the mixture hardens when dropped from the spoon into cold water. Stir in the butter and the soda or saleratus dis- solved in hot water, and flavour with any essence to taste, boil up, stirring