Arrangement and, Economy of the Kitchen. 6b twelve minutes more, according to the size of the potatoes, they are finished to perfection. Another advantage accruing from the use of this potato steamer is that when steaming, the potatoes are kept entirely free from condensed steam the condensation taking place on the inner surface of the saucepan, and the steamer which holds the potatoes remaining perfectly dry, so that after the potatoes are thoroughly cooked, they can be kept in the steamer for three quarters of an hour without deteriorating in the least degree. The steamer is sold to cook 3 lbs. at 55.; 4 lbs. at 65. ; and 6 lbs. at 7s. 6d. 123 Bower’s Talent Fish, Poultry or Vegetable Steamer. The construction and principle of this steamer is precisely the same as that just described, and its form, &c., may be seen in the illustration given on page 65. Its value lies in the fact that fish, &c., which will spoil when left too long in boiling water, can be raised when partially boiled and finished and kept waiting in the steamer dry and delicious. The sizes for ordinary use are as follows: Length in inches.... 13 14 15 17 19 Capacity in lbs 7 8 10 15 20 Price ..” 10s. 6d. 125. 6rf. 15s. 18s. 6d. 23s. 6d. Larger sizes are made for hotel use: namely to cook 30 lbs., 50:. ; 40 lbs., 605.; and 56 lbs., 755. 124. Groom’s Registered Milk Saucepan.—The so called “ milk saucepan,” which is a saucepan with an earthenware lining, is a desirable utensil for other purposes than that of warming milk, namely for making custards, cornflour and other milk puddings, stews, hashes, beef-tea, &c., because it is cleanly to use and affords immunity from catching or burning. Groom’s Milk Saucepan is an improvement on the ordinary milk saucepan in several important respects. In the first place the earthenware lining, where it rises above the rim of the saucepan is completely protected from the action of the fire (which sometimes causes it to crack) by the tin band, a, which completely en- circles it, and to which the handle of the lining, b, is securely riveted, as shown in the sectional view of the lining which forms part of the illustration given in page 69, and secondly the bottom of the lining, as shown at c, is rounded, instead of being sharp and angular, as in an ordinary earthen jar, so that, when any fluid or semifluid in the lining is stirred, the spoon follows this rounded part and no lumps can form, as in the sharp or square edge of the ordinary pattern. These sauce- pans are made in four sizes, to hold 1, 2, 3 and 4 pints, and are sold at 54., 6s.. 7s. 6d. and 10s. respectively. II Utensils Used in Roasting, &c. 125. Articles used in Roasting, &c.—It will now be convenient to glance at the principal utensils used in roasting and in the allied and similar operations, known as grilling, broiling, baking and toasting, in the same manner as that in which the utensils used in boiling, &c., have been dealt with. They are not many in number, for baking has been practically and sufficiently dealt with in treating of the various ranges and kitcheners. It is, therefore, with the utensils used in open fire roasting, &c., that we have principally to deal. 126. The Bottle-jack.—In open-fire roasting, a bottle-jack is necessary, but it may be said that in cases of necessity it may be dispensed with, and a sus- pender formed of a skein of worsted, knotted here and there throughout its length, used instead of it. The action of the familiar piece of kitchen furniture called the bottle-jack, from its resemblance to an ordinary glass bottle in form, is so well known, and, if not, is so well shown in the illustration in page 69, that very little explanation is needed When the joint is hooked on, the jack requires