Family Suppers. M47 3209. Guest Suppers.— When these were en regie it was no unwonted thing to see dishes which we consider now only to belong to dinner Put“P°“ 1 table, nor was it unprecedented to find the meal entirely a hot one. Nous avons changf tout cela it is true, still suppers, as we have said before, do exist, to’which guests are still bidden, but these are as a rule cold ones, only varied by an occa- sional dish of cutlets, scalloped oysters, or fried fish. Fish being food of a light character, is one very suitable for light suppers (we have seen those who inveigh bitterly against the meal eat some few dozens of oysters at supper time without protest), but heavy foods are better avoided In summer, mayonnaises (of fish, rissoles of chicken, cold poultry, salads, and a few sweets may form the basis of a guest supper, and in winter, soups, cutlets, small birds and salmis of various kinds will be found acceptable and not difficult of digestion. On page 1451 we give a set-out supper for guests in summer fame where it will be seen that the menu consists of cold salmon (with which should be served a good mayonnaise sauce), chickens, tongue, roast sirloin of beef, pigeon pie ana salad trifle, fancy pastry, jelly, cream and fruit. This table is made to look very pretty with floral decorations which are also extended to the serviettes, a little bouquet being placed in each. r . ■ Strawberries and cream might be served instead of any one of the fruits, o addition to them. 3210. Family Suppers.—b.t these, particularly, if of everyday occurrence, should be served'food of a light description, and to make these enjoyable meals the dishes should be as varied as possible. Fish re-dressed in the form ot may- onnaises, croquettes, or pies, can easily be made into a good supper dish, the remains of poultry or game hashed make a tempting and savoury one where o dishes are liked, and all kinds of odds and ends can, with a little ingenuity, be utilised to form more appetising food at supper time than perpetual cold mea . Salad or cucumber should not be wanting at the family meal in summer, when such things are plentiful and cheap, while in winter a few cold potatoes tried make a nice addition, or a well-made potato salad. As with breakfast dishes, those for supper are more a question of trouble and time than cost, but 00 a w can enjoy versus food for which we have no relish has such a materia 1 eren of effect upon our system, that we may conclude our observations on e as me of the day by a word of advice to the housewife, to have it, as far as lays in her power, suited to the tastes of all. . There is a prejudice against suppers for children, and we fear tha y ones go hungry to bed, particularly in summer, when they may have een running in a garden since their early tea. A very light supper should be given o ose children who have a long interval between tea time and bed time, an wi n be found in any way injurious; this simple meal consisting of cake, re^ an butter, or bread and cheese, with milk or lemonade, according to as an season.