422 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Mode.—Lay the tongue for a fortnight in the above pickle, turn it every day, and be particular that the spices are well pounded ; put it into a small pan just large enough to hold it, place some pieces of butter on it, and cover with a common crust. Bake in a slow oven until so tender that a straw would penetrate it; take off the skin, fasten it down to a piece of board by running a fork through the root and another through the tip, at the same time straightening it and putting it into shape. When cold, glaze it, put a paper ruche round the root, which is generally very unsightly, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Time.—From 3 to 4 hours in a slow oven, according to size. Average Cost, for a medium-sized uncured tongue, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. 943.-POTTED HEAD. Ingredients.—i an ox-head, 2 cow-heels, pepper, salt and mace. Mode.—Soak the head in salt and water, till it is quite free of blood, and cleanse the heels thoroughly, then put all into a large stewpan and boil for 4 hours; then strain off the liquor, and when the meat is cokFcut it up into small pieces. Skim all fat from the liquor, then put the meat back into it and simmer the whole slowly for 54- hours till it is thick and tender. Now boil up quickly, add salt, pepper and pounded mace to taste, then put into pots. Time.—9! hours. Average Cost, 4d. per lb., cow-heels gd. each. Seasonable at any time. 944.—TO DRESS TRIPE. (Fr.—Gras-Double aux Oignons.) Ingredients.—Tripe, onion sauce, No. 748, milk and water. Mode.—Ascertain that the tripe is quite fresh, and have it cleaned and dressed. Cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it in equal proportions of milk and water for three-quarters of an hour. Should the tripe be entirely undressed, more than double that time should be allowed for it. Have ready some onion sauce made by recipe No. 748, dish the tripe, smother it with the sauce, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Time.—f hour; for undressed tripe, from to 3 hours. Average Cost, 7d. per lb. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Tripe may be dressed in a variety of ways; it may be cut in pieces and fried in batter, stewed in gravy with mushrooms, or cut into collops. Sprinkled with minced onion and savoury herbs, and fried a nice brown in Clarified butter.