1582 The Doctor, one in which stimulation seems necessary, as in old or debilitated subjects,carbonate of ammonia may be given with advantage in doses of three to five grains. A drachm to a drachm and a half, added to the above mixture would answer very well. In children, this disease is at all times to be regarded gravely. The above treatment should be adopted with the modifications necessary to the child’s age, and the avoidance of turpentine stupes and sinapisms unless ordered by a medical practitioner. The diet should consist of milk, beef-tea, veal broth, milk, arrowroot, or cornflour. 3550. Chronic Bronchitis is a very common disease, and is very pre- valent during winter, causing considerable mortality. It is most usually met with in middle-aged or old people. Cough, shortness of breath and expectoration, are the three most constant symptoms of chronic bronchitis. This disease may occur as a consequence of old age merely, or it may come on as a sequel to an attack of acute bronchitis. Cabmen, porters, costermongers, bargemen and others, whose occupation exposes them to all kinds of bad weather, are extremely subject to this disease. Treatment.—It is well for those who suffer from this complaint to be able to leave this country during the winter and spring months, and spend the time in some sunnier clime, but unfortunately it is not possible for the majority of those who suffer from chronic bronchitis to do so, and the treatment must be directed to avoiding, as much as possible, any exposure to cold, or any of the exciting causes of the disease. For those who are engaged in out-door occupations and exposed to all the inclemency of the weather, but little can be done to alleviate any distressing symptoms that may arise. Thick boots should be worn, clothes changed when wet, and the patient be told to breathe through the nose, to be out as seldom as possible at night and use a respirator. 3551. Cholera. —Cholera, as known to us, is of two kinds—what is known as British cholera, a desease bad enough, but not particularly fatal, and that terribly-fatal disorder, Asiatic, malignant, or epidemic cholera. This last disease seems to have been known in India for centuries, and to have its natural home or head-quarters in the Delta of the Ganges. In this country the disease has almost always prevailed in its worst form, in poor, crowded dwellings, among those whose food supply was bad and whose hygienic conditions were otherwise un- favourable : but especially among those who had a tainted supply of water. Very frequently when cholera prevails, diarrhcea also does. Symptoms.—In a case of ordinary intensity, the disease is ushered in by an attack of diarrhoea. This may last a longer or shorter period, but speedily the matters passed by the bowel assume a flocculent or rice-water character. Vomit- ing, too, comes on, the fluid being thin and colourless. Then follow severe cramps, especially of the abdominal muscles and legs. The flow of urine ceases, the body becomes icy cold on the surface, the tongue is cold, and so even is the breath. The lips are blue and shrivelled, the face pinched, the voice is hardly audible. This is called the cold or algid state of the disease. The con- dition may go on getting worse till the heart stop, the patient being quite conscious to the end. Frequently it is impossible to tell whether the patient is to live or die, when suddenly the sickness lessens, the body begins to get warm, the face flushes, and restlessness subsides. The patient seems on the very verge of getting well. But sometimes the urine does not flow, or there may be conges- tion of the lungs or brain, and so, though re-action has set in, the man may yet perish. Thus, in an ordinary mild case of cholera, a man will pass through three stages : Firstly, that of premonitory diarrhcea ; secondly, that of collapse; and thirdly, that of reaction, probably in about forty-eight hours. Causes. —The disease is produced by some particular poison, which may be