2Q2 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. Time.—3 or 4 hours. Average Cost, gd. per pint. 623.—RICH GRAVY FOR HASHES, RAGOUTS, &.c. (Fr.—Jus de Viande.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 1 large onion or a few shalots, a little flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 or 3 cloves, 4 allspice, £ teaspoonful of whole pepper, 1 slice of lean ham or bacon, 4 a head of celery (when at hand), 2 pints of water, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the beef into thin slices, as also the onions, dredge them with flour, and fry of a pale brown, but do not allow them to get black ; pour in the water, let it boil up, and skim. Add the remaining ingredients, and simmer the whole very gently for two hours, or until all the juices are extracted from the meat ; put it by to get cold, when take off all the fat. This gravy may be flavoured with ketchup, store sauces, wine, or anything that may give additional and suitable relish to the dish it is intended for. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average Cost, 8d. per pint. Allspice. (Fr.—Piment.)—This is the popular name given to pi- mento, or Jamaica pepper, known to naturalists as Eugenia pimenta, and belonging to the order of Myrtaceae. It is the berry of a fine tree in the West indies and South America, which attains a height of from fifteen to twenty feet; the berries are not allowed to ripen, but being gathered green, are then dried in the sun, and then become black. It is an inexpensive spice, and is considered more mild and innocent than most other spices ; conse- quently it is much used for domestic purposes, combining a very agreeable variety of flavours. 624.—VEAL GRAVY FOR WHITE SAUCES, FRICASSEES, &c. (Fr.—Blond de Veau.) Ingredients.—2 slices of nicely-flavoured lean ham, any poultry trim- mings, 3 lbs. of lean veal, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley ; a few green onions (or 1 large onion may be substituted for these), a few mushrooms, when obtainable; 1 blade of mace, salt to taste, 3 pints of water. Mode.—Cut up the ham and veal into small square pieces, put thess in a stewpan, moistening them with a small quantity of water ; place them over a slow fire. When the bottom of the stewpan becomes covered with a white glaze, fill up with water in the above proportion ; add the remain- ing ingredients, stew very slowly for 3 or 4 hours, and do not forget to skim well the moment it boils. Put it by, and when cold, take off all the fat. This may be used for bechamel, sauce tournee, and many other white sauces. PIMENTO.