1487 Daily Work of General Servant. PLATE RACK. rounds of fhe°hoi]sp ° delicate ornaments. Now she has gone the khchen To see a h““f ^ **?. tha‘al* is > °rder, the servant goes to her will assist her She h 6 .c°0^ln8 °t lke dinner, in which very often her mistress work .n whieh Sh , sh°uld put on a coarse aPron with a bib to do her dirty work in, which may be easily replaced by a white one if required. shouldlaWhfcShTS nin"er--Half an hour before dinner is ready, she upteiri'atdVfeLS'.t”® miy “ r“di““ »<“» ■*» “ Ai„g dining-room that is likely to be required, in the way of knives, forks, spoons, bread, salt, water, &c. &c’ By exercising a little forethought! much confusion and trouble may be saved both to the mistress and the servant, by getting everything ready lor the dinner in good time. After taking in the dinner, when every, one is seated, she removes the covers, hands the plates round, and pours out the beer ; and should be careful to hand everything on the left side the person she is waiting on. We need scarcely say that a general arshetmCusntndLSt,ay 1° the, dining-room during the whole of the dinner-time ffssgjs ssssr* - crumbs in th^Hner gS are Cleared awa>'' the servant should sweep up the her own diXr KChSWeeKP ft" h,earth> if there be a fire, then ffitoSn to family.11 In S°me households the servant dines at the same time as the diSrlhi^SeeDs^e^rf*' ^ thif’ she vvashes UP and puts away the tnings, sweeps the kitchen, dusts and tidies it, and puts on the kettle for * tea. She should now, before dressing herself for the afternoon, clean her knives, boots and shoes, and do any other dirty work in the scullery that may be neces- sary. Knife-cleaning machines are rapidly taking the place, in most households, of ihe old knife-board. The saving of labour by the knife-cleaner is very great, and its performance of the work is very satisfac- tory. Small and large machines are manu- factured, some cleaning only four knives, whilst others clean as many as twelve at once. Nothing can be more simple than the process of machine knife-cleaning ; and although, in a very limited household, the substitution of the machine for the board may not be necessary, yet we should lay is „o, a difficulty avail ™ necessary that the knives when put in should be free from grease. When the KNIFE MACHINE.