Cold Punch. 1221 "Wine punch,’’ Tea-punch’’ and “ French punch,” made with lemons, spirits, tea and wine, in fantastic proportions. But of all the compounds of these materials, perhaps, for a summer drink, the North-American 11 mint julep" is the most inviting. Captain Marryat gives the following recipe for its preparation:—“ Put into a tumbler about a dozen sprigs of the tender shoots of mint; upon them put a spoonful of white sugar, and equal proportions of peach and common brandy, so as to fill up one third, or, perhaps, a little less ; then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler. Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh pineapple; and the tumbler itself is very often encrusted outside with stalactites of ice. As the ice melts, you drink.” The Virginians, says Captain Marryat, claim the merit of having invented this superb compound; but, from a passage in the “ Comus ’’ of Milton, he claims it for his own country. 2741. —COLD PUNCH. Ingredients.—i bottle of rum, 2 glasses of cura5oa, 1 bottle of cham- pagne, £ lb. of powdered sugar, 1 large lemon, 4 pint of water, ice. Mode.—Put the sugar and lemon-rind into a bowl with the water, and when dissolved add the spirits and wine and the juice of the lemon. Break into the bowl some ice before serving. Average Cost, 8s. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. Seasonable at any time. 2742. —SHANDY GAFF. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of good ale and ginger beer, with a dash of liqueur if liked, ice. Mode.—Empty the bottles into a jug in which some lumps of ice have been broken, and add the liqueur. Average Cost, 4d. per pint. Seasonable in summer. 2743-SHERRY COBBLER. Ingredients.—4 glasses of sherry, 1 bottle of soda, 1 tablespoonful of pounded sugar, 1 glass of liqueur, ice. Mode.—Divide the sherry into 3 parts, putting each into a tumbler with a lump of ice, and a third of the sugar, fill up each with a third of the soda and liqueur. Imbibe through straws. Average Cost, is. 6d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable in summer. 2744.—SUMMER DRINK. Ingredients.—Tea, lemon, sugar, liqueur, ice. Mode.—Make some good tea, letting it stand not more than 5 minutes, and pour it into a jug in which has been put sugar and sliced lemon. Let it stand till perfectly cold, then add the liqueur and ice. •-Seasonable in summer. TANKARD FOR SHANDY GAFF.