1070 Recipes for Making Ices and Confectionery. such consistency that it will fall out of a spoon. Different flours absorb different quantities of moisture, and it is possible that in some cases an egg more or less will make the paste the required thickness. 2351.—CHOPPED ALMONDS FOR NOUGAT. Mode.—Almonds should be blanched in boiling water, put to cool in cold, drained in a colander, the skins removed, rinsed again and dried, and left an hour or two before they are chopped. If wanted for small nougats, they should be cut across instead of lengthwise. Pistachios are treated in the same way, and if the colour is not bright enough, a little spinach green may be used for them. 2352.-COLOURED ALMONDS. Mode.—Yellow almonds can be had by splitting them in two after blanching, and putting them into the oven till they get a light golden tinge. Pink and red colouring can be given with cochineal mixed with a little syrup, and when the almonds have been rubbed in this, they should be put in a cool oven to dry. Green colouring is given in the same manner, with spinach green. Violet is given with a little ultramarine blue mixed with liquid cochineal and a little anisette. 2353 -COLD WORKED BUTTER. (For Cone Work and Buttering Moulds.) Mode.—Put some fresh butter in a cloth, and press out all the water, then work it smooth with a wooden spoon in a basin. 2354.-COLOURING FOR ORNAMENTAL PASTRY. This is sometimes given with ordinary paints and a brush, but this of course will render the pastry uneatable. In the colours we have men- tioned in recipe No. 2352, with the addition of chocolate and the relief ol white, sufficient variety may be found. 2355-COLOURED SUGAR. Sugar for colouring may be ot any sized grains, by sifting it through colanders with different sized holes, after it has been broken up, first with a knife and then with a rolling pin. To colour it, put it with the colouring matter on a copper baking sheet, and rub it between the hands till sufficiently tinted, then spread it over the sheet and dry in a cool oven. It should be stirred occasionally to prevent its drying in lumps, and after- wards sifted. Xh§ yegetable colourings mentioned in recipe No. 2352 should be used.