532 General Observations on the Common Hog. 1172. Comparatively speaking, very little difference exists between the weight of the live and dead pig, and this simply because there is neither the head nor the hide to be removed. It has been proved that pork loses in cooking, 13J per cent, of its weight. A salted hand weighing 4 lbs. 5 oz., lost in the cooking 11 oz. ; after cooking, the meat weighing only 3 lbs. 1 oz., and the bone 9 oz. The original cost was 7\d. a pound ; but by this deduction, the cost rose to 9d. per pound with the bone, and 10\d. without it. 1173. Pork, to be Preserved, is cured in several ways, either by cover- ing it with salt, or immersing it in ready-made brine, where it is kept till required ; or it is only partially salted, and then hung up to dry, when the meat is called white bacon; or, after salting, it is hung in wood-smoke till the flesh is impregnated with the aroma from the wood. The Wiltshire bacon, which is regarded as the finest in the kingdom, is prepared by laying the sides of a hog in large wooden troughs, and then rubbing into the flesh quantities of powdered bay-salt, made hot in a frying-pan. This process is repeated for four days ; they are then left for three weeks, merely turning the flitches every other day. After that time they are hung up to dry. The hogs usually killed for purposes of bacon in England average from 18 to 20 stone; on the other hand, the hogs killed in the country, for farm-house purposes, seldom weigh less than 26 stone. The legs of boars, hogs, and, in Germany, those of bears, are prepared differently, and called hams. PIG, SHOWING THE MODE OF CUTTING UP VARIOUS JOINTS. 1174. The Names of the Several Joints are as follows:— Fore-Quarter. 1. Spare-rib. 2. Hand. 4. Fore-loin. Hind-Quarter. 3. Spring, or belly. 5. Loin. 6. Leg. The weight of the several joints of a good pork pig of four stone iniy be as follows, viz.:— The leg 8 lbs. The loin and spring 7 ,, The hand 6 ,, The chine 7 ,, The cheek from 2 to 3 ,