749 Fried Cucumbers. boiled salmon, is a nice addition to all descriptions of salads, and makes a pretty garnish to lobster salad. Average Cost, when scarce is. to 2s. 6d.; when cheapest, frame cucumbers may be had for 4d. each. Seasonable.—Forced from the beginning of the year to the end of June ; in full season in July, August and September. Geographical Distribution of Cucumbers.—This family is not known in the frigid zone, is somewhat rare in the temperate, but in the tropical and warmer regions throughout the world they are abun- dant. They are most plentiful in the continent of Hindostan ; but in America are not so plentiful. Many of the kinds supply useful articles of consumption for food and others are actively medicinal in their virtues. Generally speaking, delicate stomachs should avoid indigestible. 1568.—CUCUMBERS FOR GARNISH. (Fr.—Concombres a la Poulette.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 cucumbers, salt and vinegar, 2 02. of butter, flour, i pint of broth, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, a lump of sugar, the • yolks of 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Pare and cut the cucumbers into pieces of an equal thickness taking out the seeds and let them remain in a pickle of salt and vinegar for half an hour; then drain them in a cloth and put them into a stewpan with the butter. Fry them over a brisk fire, but do not brown them, and then dredge over them a little flour; add the broth, skim off all the fat, which will rise to the surface, and boil gently until the gravy is somewhat reduced ; but the cucumber should not be broken. Stir in the yolks of the eggs and the parsley, sugar and a seasoning of pepper and salt; bring the whole to the point of boiling, and serve. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Average Cost, from 4d. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in July, August and September; but maybe had, forced, from the beginning of the year. CUCUMBER. this plant, for it is cold and 1569.—FRIED CUCUMBERS. (Fr— Concombres Frits.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 cucumbers, pepper and salt to taste, flour, oil or butter. Mode.—Pare the cucumbers and cut them into slices of an equal thickness, commencing to slice from the thick end, and not the stalk end of the cucumber. Wipe the slices dry with a cloth, dredge them with flour and put them into a pan of boiling oil or butter; keep turning them about till brown ; lift them out of the pan, let them drain, and serve, piled