Green Sauce. 325 this may be placed in a vessel of boiling water, to melt the glaze when required. It should never be warmed in a saucepan, except on the principle of the bain marie. If the glaze is wanted of a pale colour, more veal than beef should be used ; and it is as well to omit turnips and celery. Glaze sold ready made can be had of good quality, and saves a great deal of time and trouble. To Glaze Cold Joints, &c.—Melt the glaze by placing the vessel which contains it into the bain marie or saucepan of boiling water; brush it over the meat with a paste-brush, and if in places it is not quite covered, repeat the operation. The glaze should not be of too dark a colour. Glaze Kettle. This is a kettle used for keeping the strong stock boiled down to a jelly, which is known by the name of glaze. It is composed of two tin vessels, as shown in the cut, one of which, the upper, containing the glaze, is inserted into one of larger diameter, and containing boiling water. A brush is put m the small hole at the top of the lid, and is employed for putting the glaze on anything that may require it. Note.—-The Bain Marie.—So long ago as the time when emperors ruled in Koine, and the yellow Tiber passed through a populous and wealthy city, this utensil was extensively employed; and it is frequently mentioned by that profound culinary chemist of the ancients, Apicius. 716.—GREEN SAUCE. (Fr.—Puree d’Oseilie.) (For Green Geese or Ducklings.) Ingredients. 1 pint of sorrel, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, a little stock. Mode.- Boil the sorrel without any water, chop it and press it through a sieve ; put the pulp into a saucepan with the above ingredients ; simmer for 3 or 4 minutes, and serve very hot. Time .—3 or 4 minutes. Note.—This is a very favourite French sauce or garnish. It has an acid flavour, and is, therefore, suited for dishes that are too rich or too flavourless. Sorrel.—We gather from the pages of Pliny and Apicius, that sorrel was cultivated by the Romans in order to give it more strength and flavour, and that they also partook of it sometimes stewed with mustard, being seasoned with a little oil and vinegar. At the present day, English cookery is not much indebted to this plant (Rumex acetosa), although the French make use of it to a considerable extent. It is sorrel. found in most parts of Great Britain, and also on the Continent, grow- . ing wild in the grass meadows, and, in a few gardens, it is cultivated. 1 he acid of sorrel is very prononcJ, and is what chemists term a binoxalate of potash : that is, a combination of oxalic acid with potash.