7og Bean Croquettes. 1464.—CURRIED BEANS. Ingredients.—| pint of haricot beans, half a carrot, 1 apple, 1 onion, a tablespoonful of oil or some butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour and curry powder mixed, £ pint of water, rice. Mode.—Bake the beans in a slow oven with water until soft, grate or chop the vegetables very fine, melt the oil, add the vegetables and fry for five minutes, then the flour and curry, and last of all the water or an equal quantity of the liquor in which the beans were boiled, if any remains. Boil and thicken, add the beans, make it thoroughly hot, and serve with a border of boiled rice. If the rice is not very well boiled, which may happen with an inexperienced cook, press it into a mould or into teacups, turn them out into the middle of the dish, and pour the beans round. Note.—Peas and lentils may be cooked in the same way, or indeed any kind of vegetable. 1465.-BEAN CROQUETTES. Ingredients.—Boiled beans, bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, onion, egg or flour and milk, oil to fry. Mode.—Take some boiled haricot beans—any that are left over from a dish of the day befoi'e will do—mash them, add bread-crumbs enough to make them stiff enough to mould, a little chopped onion, pepper and salt. Shape them into balls or flat cakes, egg-and-bread-crumb them, and fry in hot oil. Serve with some sauce, or brown gravy poured round, and garnish with fried parsley. If peas are preferred, the ordinary split peas can be used ; and if lentils, either the Egyptian or the German, but the latter are better though dearer. Parsley and herbs, or lemon-peel, can be added if approved. They must be eaten hot. 1466.-POTTED BEANS. Ingredients.—£ pint of haricot beans, 2 oz. of bread crumbs, 2 oz. of strong cheese, grated ; 2 oz. of butter, cayenne, pepper, salt, nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Bake the beans in a slow oven, pound them in a mortar, adding the other ingredients gradually. Press it into pots, and run a little butter over the top if it is to keep many days. It makes very good sandwiches with bread and butter. 1467.—BEANS AND TOMATOES. Ingredients.—Baked or boiled haricot beans, 1 oz. of flour, £ oz. of butter, £ pint of the water in which the beans were cooked, 2 table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce.