ggc Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. let them remain till the next day; then drain the cherries on a sieve, and put the syrup and white-currant juice into the preserving-pan again. Boil these together until the syrup is somewhat reduced and rather thick; then put in the cherries, and let them boil for about 5 minutes ; take them off the fire, skim the syrup, put the cherries into small pots or wide- mouthed bottles ; pour the syrup over, and when quite cold, tie them down carefully, so that the air is quite excluded. Time.—15 minutes to boil the cherries in the syrup; 10 minutes to boil the syrup and currant-juice; 5 minutes to boil the cherries the second time. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3s. id. Seasonable.—Make this in July or August. 2136.—COLOURING FOR CONFECTIONERY, JELLIES, &c. Mode.—To colour red, use sliced beetroot, boiled in a little water and squeezed through a cloth. For green colouring, boil spinach leaves; and for yellow, any shade, steep a small piece of saffron in the liquid jelly. 2137. -STEWED CHESTNUTS. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of chestnuts, 1 lb. of sugar, $ pint of water, juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Roast the chestnuts, peel and put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar. Stew fifteen minutes, then slowly add the lemon-juice. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for x dish. Seasonable from October to February. 2138. —BLACK-CURRANT JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed before being stripped from the stalks, allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar, 1 gill of water. Mode.—Let the fruit be very ripe, and gathered on a dry day. Strip it from the stalks, and put it into a preserving-pan ; boil these together for 10 minutes; then add the sugar, and boil the jam again for 45 minutes, reckoning from the time when the jam simmers equally all over, or longer should it not appear to set nicely when a little is poured on to a plate. Keep stirring it to prevent it from burning, carefully remove all the scum, and when done, pour it into pots. Let it cool; cover the top of the jam with oiled paper, and the top of the jars with a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg; this, when cold, forms a hard stiff cover, and perfectly excludes the air. Great attention must be paid to the stirring of this jam, as it is very liable to burn, on account of the thickness of the juice,