Walnut Ketchup. 1045 Seasonable.—Make this from the beginning to the middle of July, when walnuts are in perfection for pickling purposes. 2267.—WALNUT KETCHUP. (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—£ sieve of walnut-shells, 2 quarts of water, salt, \ lb. of shalots, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of mace, 1 oz. of whole pepper, 1 oz. of garlic. Mode.—Put the walnut-shells into a pan, with the water and a large quantity of salt; let them stand for 10 days, then break the shells up in the water, and let it drain through a sieve, putting a heavy weight on the top to express the juice ; place it on the fire, and remove all scum that may arise. Now boil the liquor with the shalots, cloves, mace, pepper, and garlic, and let all simmer till the shalots sink ; then put the liquor into a pan, and, when cold, bottle, and cork closely. It should stand 6 months before using; should it ferment during that time, it must be again boiled and skimmed. Time.—About f hour. Seasonable in September, when the walput- shells are obtainable. The Waluut.—This nut is a native of Persia, and was introduced into England from France. As a pickle, it is much used in the green state; and grated walnuts in Spain are much employed, both in tarts and other dishes. On the Continent it is occasionally employed as a substitute for olive oil in cooking; but it is apt, under such circumstances, to become rancid. The matter which remains after the oil is extracted is considered highly nutritious for poultry, it is called amer, and in Switzerland is eaten under the name of pain amer by the poor. The oil is frequently manufactured into a kind of soap, and the leaves and green husks yield an extract, which, as a brown dye, is used to stain hair, wool and wood. 2268.—CAMP VINEGAR. (Fr.—Vinaigre.; Ingredients.—1 head of garlic, £ oz. of cayenne, 2 teaspoonfuls of soy, 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut ketchup, 1 pint of vinegar, cochineal to colour. Mode.—Slice the garlic, and put it, with all the above ingredients, into a clean bottle. Let it stand to infuse for a month, when strain it off quite clear, and it will be fit for use. Keep it in small bottles, well sealed to exclude the air. Average Cost, for this quantity, 8d. 2269.—CRESS VINEGAR. Ingredients.—i oz. of cress seed, 1 quart of vinegar. Mode.—Bruise the seed in a mortar and put it into the vinegar, previously boiled and allowed to grow cold. Let it infuse for a fortnight, then strain and bottle for use. THE WALNUT.