Evening Parties. 13 common, it is not A kind of entertainment likely to be attended by any great eclat. Dessert.— When dinner is finished, the dessert is placed on the table, accompanied by finger-glasses. The hostess, whose behaviour will set the tone to all the ladies present, will merely wet the tips of her fingers, which will serve all the purposes required. 31. Leaving the Dinner Table.—When fruit has been taken, and a glass or two of wine passed round, the time will have arrived when the hostess will rise, and thus give the signal for the ladies to leave the gentlemen, and retire to the drawing-room. The gentlemen of the party will rise at the same time, and he who is nearest the door will open it for the ladies, all remaining courteously standing until the last lady has withdrawn. Dr. Johnson has a curious paragraph on the effects of a dinner on men. “ Before dinner,” he says, “ men meet with great inequality of understanding ; and those who are conscious of their inferiority have the modesty not to talk. When they have drunk wine, every man feels himself happy, and loses that modesty, and grows impudent and vociferous; but he is not improved, he is only not sensible of his defects.” This is rather severe, but there may be truth in it. In former times, when the bottle circulated freely amongst the guests, it was necessary for the ladies to retire earlier than they do at present, ror the gentlemen of the company soon became unfit to conduct themselves with that decorum which is essential in decent society. Thanks, however, to the improvements in modern society, and the high example shown to the nation by its most illustrious personages, temperance is, in these happy days, a necessary feature in the character of a gentleman, and thus, the very early withdrawal of the ladies from the dining-room is to be deprecated. A lull in the conversation will seasonably indicate the moment for the ladies’ departure. 32. After-dinner Invitations may he given, by which we wish to be understood, invitations for the evening. The time of arrival of these visitors will vary according to their engagenents, or sometimes will be varied in obedience to the caprices of fashion. Guests invited for the evening are, however, generally considered at liberty to arrive whenever it will best suit themselves—usually be- tween nine and twelve, unless earlier hours are specifically named. By this arrangement, many fashionable people and others who have numerous engage- ments to fulfil, can contrive to make their appearance at two or three parties in the course of one evening. 33 jBall or Evening Party Etiquette.—The etiquette of the dinner- party table being disposed of, let us now enter slightly into that of an evening party or ball. The invitations for these are usually on “At Home ” cards, filled in with the name and address of the sender and the date of the invitation, with the word “ Dancing” or -“Music,” as the case may be, in one corner. They should be sent out about three weeks before the day fixed for the event, and should be replied to within a week of their receipt. By attending to these courtesies, the guests will have time to consider their engagements, and prepare their dresses, and the hostess will also know what will be the number of her party. Short or verbal invitat.ons, except where persons are exceedingly intimate, or are very near relations, are very far from proper, although, of course, in this respect and many other respects, very much always depends on the manner in which the invitation is given. True politeness, however, should be studied, even amongst the nearest friends and relations, for the mechanical forms of good breeding are of great consequence, and too much familiarity may have for its result the destruction of fri ndship. 34. Arrival of Guests. — Visitors on arrival should be shown to a room exclusively provided for their reception; and in that set apart for the ladies,