Recipes for Cooking Poultry. b20 Time.—hour to stew the giblets; about i hour to bake the pie. Average Cost, exclusive of the giblets, is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. The Brent Goose.—This is the smallest and most numerous species of the geese which visit the British Islands. It makes its appearance in winter, and ranges over the whole of the coasts and estuaries frequented by other migrant geese. Mr. Selby states that a very large body of these birds annually resort to the extensive sandy and muddy flats which lie between the mainland and Holy Island, on the Northumbrian coast, and which are covered by every flow of the tide. This part of the coast appears to have been a iavourite resort of these birds from time immemorial, where they have always received the name of Ware geese, no doubt from their continually feeding on marine vegetables. Their flesh is very agreeable. 1311.—HASHED GOOSE {Ft.—RagoDt d’Oie.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast goose, 2 onions, 2 oz. of butter, 1 pint of boiling water, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablepoonsful of port, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut up the goose into pieces of the size required ; the inferior joints, trimmings, &c., put into a stewpan to make the gravy; slice and fry the onions in the butter of a very pale brown; add these to the trimmings, and pour over about a pint of boiling water; stew these gently for three-quarters of an hour, then skim and strain the liquor. Thicken it with flour, and flavour with port and ketchup, in the above pro- portion ; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and put in the pieces of goose; let these get thoroughly hot through, but do not allow them to boil, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether, rather more than 1 hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold goose, 6d. Seasonable from September to February. The Wild Goose.—This bird is sometimes called the “ Gray-lag,’’ and is the original of the domestic goose. It is, according to Pennant, the only species which the Britons could take young and familiarise. “The Gray-lag,’’ says Mr. Gould, “is known to inhabit all the extensive marshy districts throughout the temperate regions of Europe generally ; its range northwards not extending further than the fifty-third degree of latitude, while southwards it extends to the northern portions of Africa, easterly to Persia, and he believes it is generally dispersed over Asia Minor.’’ It is the bird that saved the Capitol by its vigilance, and by the Romans was cherished accordingly. 1312.—ROAST GOOSE. (Fr.—Oie Rotie.) Ingredients.—Goose, 4 large onions, 10 sage-leaves, pound of bread- crumbs, 1^ oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. Select a goose with a clean white skin, plump breast and yellow feet; if these latter are red, the bird is old. Should the weather permit, let it hang for a few days ; by so doing, the flavour will be very much improved.