658 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. article of commerce, being used for the making of hats. Another variety or the rabbit, however, called the “ silver-grey,” has been lately introduced to this country, and is still more valuable. Its colour is a black ground, thickly interspersed with grey hairs; and its powers as a destroyer and consumer of vegetable food are well known to be enormous, especially by those who have gardens in the vicinity of a rabbit warren. 1367— CURRIED RABBIT. (Fr.—Lapin au Kari.) (Another Mode.) Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 pint of stock, No. 273, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 leaspoonful of mushroom-powder, the juice of £ a lemon, i lb. of rice. Mode.—Empty, skin and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it neatly into joints. Put it into a stewpan with the butter and sliced onions, and let them acquire a nice brown colour, but do not allow them to blacken. Pour in the stock, which should be boiling; mix the curry-powder and flour smoothly with a little water, add it to the stock, with the mushroom-powder, and simmer gently for rather more than half an hour; squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve in the centre of a dish, with an edging of boiled rice all round. Where economy is studied, water may be substituted for the stock; in this case, the meat and onions must be very nicely browned. A little sour apple and rasped cocoa-nut stewed with the curry will be found a great improvement. Time.—Altogether, f hour. Average Cost, from 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable in winter. 1368.-CR OQ U ETTES OF TURKEY. (Fr.—Croquettes de Dinde.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold turkey. To every £ lb. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham or bacon, 2 shalots, 1 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of two eggs, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode.—The smaller pieces, that will not do for a fricassbe or hash, answer very well for this dish. Mince the meat finely, with ham or bacon in the above proportion ; make a gravy of the bones and trimmings, well seasoning it; mince the shalots, put them into a stewpan with the butter, add the flour; mix well, then put in the mince, and about half a pint of the gravy made from the bones. (The proportion of the butter must be increased or diminished according to the quantity of mince.) When just boiled, add the yolks of two eggs ; put the mixture out to cool, and then shape it in a wineglass. Cover the croquettes with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them a delicate brown. Put small pieces of parsley-stems for stalks, and serve with rolled bacon cut very thin