23 Seasonable Work. As, in the winter months, servants have much more to do, in consequence of the necessity there is to attend to the number of fires throughout the household, not much more than tne ordinary every-day work can be attempted. In the summer, and when the absence of fires gives the domestics more leisure, then any extra work that is required can be more easily performed. The spring is the usual period set apart for house-cleaning, and removing all the dust and dirt which will necessarily, with the best of housewives, accumulate during the winter months, from the smoke of the coal, oil, gas, &c. This season is also well adapted for washing and bleaching linen, &c., as, the weather not being then too hot for the exertions necessary in washing counter- panes, blankets, and heavy things in general, the work is better and more easily done than in the intense heats of July, which month some recommend for these purposes. Winter curtains should be taken down, and replaced by the summer white ones ; and furs and woollen cloths also carefully laid by. The former should be well shaken and brushed, and then pinned upon paper or linen, with camphor to preserve them from the moths. Furs, &c., will be preserved in the same way. Included, under the general description of house-cleaning, must be understood, turning out all the nooks and corners of drawers, cupboards, lumber-rooms, lofts, &c., with a view of getting rid of all unnecessary articles, which only create dirt and attract vermin ; sweep- ing of chimneys, taking up carpets, painting and whitewashing the kitchen and offices, papering rooms, when needed, and, generally speaking, the house putting on, with the approaching summer, a bright appearance, and a new face, in unison with nature. Oranges should now be preserved, and orange wine made. The summer will be found, as we have mentioned above, in consequence of the diminution of labour for the domestics, the best period for examining and repairing household linen, and for “putting to rights ” all those articles which have received a large share of wear and tear during the dark winter days. In direct reference to this matter, we may here remark that sheets should be turned “sidvs to middle” before they are allowed to get very thin. Otherwise, patching, which is uneconomical from the time it consumes, and is unsightly in point of appear- ance, will have to be resorted to. In June and July, gooseberries, currants, raspberries, straw- berries, and other summer fruits should be preserved, and jams and jellies made. In July, too, the making of walnut ketchup should be attended to, as the green walnuts will be approach- ing perfection for this purpose. Mixed pickles may also be now made, and it will be found a good plan to have ready a jar of pickle-juice (for the making of which all information will be given in future pages), into which to put occasionally some young French beans, cauliflowers, &c. In the early autumn, plums of various kinds are to be bottled and preserved, and jams and jellies made. A little later, tomato sauce, a most useful article to have by you, may be prepared; a supply of apples laid in, if you have a place to keep them, as also a few keeping pears and filberts. Endeavour to keep also two or three large vegetable-marrows—they will be found delicious in the winter, and may be cut and used as required without spoiling. In September and October it will be necessary to prepare for the cold weather, and get ready the winter clothing for the various members of the family. The white summer curtains will now be carefully put away, the fire-places, grates, and chimneys looked to, and the house put in a thorough state of repair, so that no “ loose tile ” may, at a future day, interfere with your com- fort, and extract something considerable from your pocket. In December, the principal household duty lies in preparing for the creature comforts of those near and dear to us, so as to meet Old Christmas with a happy face, a contented mind, and a full larder; and in stoning the plums, washing the currants, cutting the citron, beating the eggs, and Mixing the Pudding, a housewife is not unworthily greeting the genial season of all good thing9. THE PRAISE OF HUSWIFRY. I serve for a day, for a week, for a year, For lifetime, for ever, while man dwellcth here; For richer, for poorer, from north to the south; For honest, for hard-head, for dainty of mouth ; For wed and unwedded, in sickness and health; For all that well liveth in good commonwealth; For city, for country, for court and for cart, To quiet the head and comfort the heart, Tusser, 1557.