Asparagus and Eggs- 733 the saucepan uncovered. When the asparagus is done, dish it upon toast, which should be dipped in the water it was cooked in. Serve with a tureen of melted butter or oiled butter. Boiled too fast, the heads ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. ASPARAGUS TONGS. come off. It is better to set each bundle upright in a deep pan with only the stalks in water. Time.—15 to 18 minutes after the water boils. Aver- age Cost, in full season, 2s. 6d. the 100 heads. Sufficient.—Allow about 50 heads for 4 or 5 per- sons. Seasonable.—May be had, forced,from January;but cheapest in May, June and July. Asparagus.—This plant belongs to the variously-featured family of the order Liliacea, which, in the temperate regions of both hemi- spheres, is most abundant, and, between the tropics, gigantic in size and arborescent in form. Asparagus is a native of Great Britain, and is found on various parts of the seacoast, and in the fens of Lincolnshire. At Kynance Cove, in Cornwall, there is a rocky island called “ Asparagus Island," from its having been once cultivated there. The uses to which the young shoots are applied, and the manner in which they are cultivated in order to bring them to the highest state of excellence, have been a study with many kitchen gardeners. 1537 -ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. (Fr.—CEufs aux Asperges.) Ingredients.—Cold boiled asparagus, 6 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of castor sugar, salt, pepper. Mode.—Cut up the soft parts of the asparagus, and lay it in a buttered baking-dish, seasoning with a little pepper, salt and sugar. Break the eggs, which must be fresh, into the dish ; put a few lumps of butter over, and bake ten minutes in a quick oven. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. without the asparagus. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable.—Cheapest in May, June and July. 1538.—ASPARAGUS PEAS. (Fr.—Asperges en Petits Pois.) Ingredients.—100 heads of asparagus, 2 oz. of butter, a small bunch of parsley, 2 or 3 green onions, flour, 1 lump of sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt. Mode.—Carefully scrape the asparagus, cut it into pieces of an equal size, avoiding that which is the least hard or tough, and throw them into