Invitations. n Alness, it is usual to turn up the lower right-hand corner of the card, for this denotes that a per- sonal enquiry has been made. Some cards have the words, Visite, Felicitation, Affaires, Adieu, printed upon the reverse side, on the corners, so that whichever corner is turned up one of these words appears, and explains the cause of the visit. Tennis invitations are issued on pretty cards, having the word “ Tennis” in coloured letters, formed by the rackets and balls. For Soirees. “ At Homes,” and Conversaziones, invitation cards are still used; but for Dinners, Balls, and Wedding Breakfasts, the invitations are issued upon note-paper. Gilt edges are much used, and the monogram, or crest, or both, head the paper. It is a custom at many houses during the summer to give tennis luncheons or teas. The meal is very informal, and is usually al fresco. Iced tea, coffee, claret-cup, &c., are served, with sandwiches, pastry, cakes and other light viands. The buffet is set under shady trees, and a couple of footmen or maids are in attendance at it, the players themselves fetching what they may want. The following is a form for wedding invitations:— Mr. and Mrs. A request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. B 's company on Thursday, the 12th of June, to celebrate the marriage of Alice A with Frederick S. Ceremony at Church, at — o’clock. Dljeuner at—o'clock. An early answer will oblige. The morning calls being paid or received, and their etiquette properly at- tended to, the next great event of the day in most establishments is “ The Dinner;” and we only propose here to make a few general remarks on this important topic, as in future pages the whole ‘‘Art of Dining” will be thoroughly considered, with reference to its economy, comfort and enjoyment. 27. Invitation for Dinner.—In giving these it is usual to give about three weeks’ notice, and formal ones are sent on printed cards, such as the following— Howard House, Kensington, W. request the pleasure of company at Dinner on the at o'clock. R- S. V. P., or an answer will oblige, is sometimes added, but with a dinner invitation it ought to be unnecessary. In accepting an invitation the form of words used is— have much pleasure in accepting kind invitation for while in declining one it is usual to say— regret they are unavoidably prevented [or that a previous en- gagement prevents them] prom accepting kind invitation for 28. The Half-hour before Dinner has always been considered as the great ordeal through which the mistress, in giving a dinner-party, will either pass with flying colours, or lose many of her laurels. The anxiety to receive her guests, her hope that all will be present in due time, her trust in the skill of her cook, and the attention of the other domestics—all tend to make those few minutes a trying time. The mistress, however, must display no kind of agitation, but show her tact in suggesting light and cheerful subjects of conversation, which will be much aided by the introduction of any particularly new book, curiosity