112 Introduction to Cookery. Most things that are fried are covered with egg and bread-crumbs, flour and milk, or batter, in order that a crust may be formed round them to keep the juice in and the fat out. The essential thing is to cover them completely and leave no crack. 229. Adulteration, — The act passed in 1872 for the prevention of Adulteration of Food, Drink and Drugs declares that persons who adulterate articles of food, or who sell those that they know to have been adulterated, whether with material injurious to the health or not, are punishable with fine or imprisonment. The vendor is bound to declare such admixture to the purchaser at the time of the sale. The inspectors under the local authorities are directed to procure samples from time to time, and to submit them to the public analyst. Any purchaser may have any article of food, or drink, or drugs analysed by the public analyst of his district on payment of a sum not less than half-a-crown and not more than half-a-guinea. In olden times the prices of the chief necessaries of life were regulated by authority. Such interference has long been a thing of the past. Vendors may ask any price they please for the things they sell, and the legislature only insists that no fraud shall be practised on the public, and that goods shall be sold under their rightful names. 230. Prices of Food.—Everyone nowadays will agree that the seller should fix the price at which he will sell his wares. For the prices vary accord- ing as the supply of the commodity in question is plentiful and the demand great. An abundant wheat harvest is followed by cheap bread; but we do not all so readily understand, that not bread alone but all perishable articles must be dear one year and cheap another. It may sometimes happen that the fall in price never reaches the consumer but stops short with the wholesale or retail trader, although this tendency is to some extent counteracted by the competition in retail trade. Overcharging is most likely to occur where the customers cannot readily transfer their custom to a neighbouring shop, as, for instance, in isolated country places, or when the customers are in debt, or under obligation to the shop- keeper, having perhaps been supported by him during times of scarce work. It is often for these reasons that in the poorest and most wretched neighbourhoods the highest prices rule. Customers are often induced by considerations of fashion or convenience to pay high prices ; but they can scarcely be said to be overcharged, since they choose to pay for such costly luxuries as spacious premises, handsome shop-fronts, numerous shop assistants, and long credit. Economical people are compelled to go without these and many other things that it is pleasant to have. 231. Diet.—But it is not only the weight and the cost that have to be studied for economy’s sake. We have already seen that it is possible to starve in the midst of plenty; to starve, that is, for want of one necessary constituent of food though all the others may be supplied in superabundance. A good house- keeper will, therefore, take care that upon her table is set a variety of well- chosen food, and very often indeed by the outlay of a little care in dieting she may prevent the outlay of much care in nursing and of much money in doctors’ bills. People suffer from diseases of mal-nutrition much more often through bad management than because of a short purse. It will often be found, especially with children, that they are ill for want of certain kinds of food and yet will not take them in their ordinary form ; it is then the part of the house- keeper to reproduce the food so that it is not recognised, or to find the same sub- stance in some other form. 232. Cost and economy.—Again, two foods may cost the same and weigh the same and yet one may be far more economical than the other. For one may be very nourishing, containing a kind of food that is not cheaply to be bought.