Bread-Making. 1081 takes in some of the cells rich in gluten, and is therefore more nourishing. "Sharps,'' "tails,” "tippings," "pollards," are all names given to the inter- mediate products between white flour and bran. They are usually given to animals, but might with advantage be added to bread, as they are very nourish- ing and not indigestible like bran. Unfortunately, brown bread in this country is often made of white flour and bran, leaving all these out. Bran contains a large proportion of phosphates and mineral matter, and the ferment peculiar to wheat flour, said to assist in its digestion ; hence it will be seen why brown bread is so much more nutritious than white ; in fact, we may lay it down as a general rule, that the whiter the bread the less nourishment it contains. Majendie proved this by feeding a dog for forty days with white wheaten bread, at the end of which time he died ; while another dog, fed on brown bread made with flour mixed with bran, lived without any disturbance of his health. 2378. Whole Meal.—In ancient times, down to the Emperors, no bolted flour was known. In many parts of Germany the entire meal is used; and in no part of the world are the digestive organs of the people in a better condition. In years of famine, when corn is scarce, the use of bolted flour is most culpable, for from 18 to 20 per cent, is lost in bran. Brown bread has, of late years, become very popular; and many physicians have recommended it to invalids with weak digestions and sedentary habits with great success. Nevertheless it is by no means certain that for the mass of the people whole-meal bread would be advantageous, for bran is not digestible, and indeed its value in the physician’s hands depends upon that. Decorticated bread, from which only the bran is removed, is also made, and is not open to the same objections. This rage for white bread has introduced adulterations of a very serious character, affecting the health of the whole community. Potatoes are added for this purpose; but this is a comparatively harmless cheat, only reducing the nutritive power of the bread ; but bone-dust and alum are also put in, which are far from harmless. 2379. Bread-making is a very Ancient Art indeed. —The Assyrians, Egyptians, and Greeks used to make bread, in which oil, with aniseed and other spices, was an element; but this was unleavened. Every family used to prepare the bread for its own consumption, the trade of baking not having yet taken shape. It is said that, somewhere about the beginning of the thirtieth Olympiad, the slave of an archon, at Athens, made leavened bread by accident. He had left some wheaten dough in an earthen pan, and forgotten it; some days afterwards, he lighted upon it again, and found it turning sour. His first thought was to throw it away; but, his master coming up, he mixed this now acescent dough with some fresh dough, which he was working at. The bread thus produced, by the introduction of dough in'which alcoholic fermentation had begun, was found delicious by the archon and his friends, and the slave, being summoned and catechised, told the secret. It spread all over Athens; and everybody wanting leavened bread at once, certain persons set up as bread- makers, or bakers. In a short time bread-baking became quite an art, and "Athenian bread" was quoted all over Greece as the best bread, just as the honey of Hymettus was celebrated as the best honey. In our own times, and among civilised peoples, bread has become an article of food of the first necessity ; and properly so, for it constitutes of itself a complete life-sustainer, the gluten, fibrin, fat, phosphates, starch, and sugar, which it contains, representing all the necessary classes of food. There is too little fal and too little flesh-former if used as a sole article of food. 2380. Different Flours.—The finest, wholesomest, and most savourj bread is made from wheaten flour.