1064 Recipes for Making Ices and Confectionery. 2326.—DROPS FLAVOURED WITH BERGAMOT. Ingredients.—Loaf sugar, bergamot-water. Mode.—Pound and sift loaf sugar, adding bergamot-water, mixing them well together over the fire for about 5 minutes. Drop in very round drops on paper. 2327-ORGEAT DROPS. Ingredients.—4 oz. of almonds, £ lb. of white sugar, orange-flower water. Mode.—Pound the blanched almonds well in a mortar, moistening them with a little water, which must be as clear as possible ; make a paste of these. Add orange-flower-water to flavour, and strain the whole through a cloth or fine silk sieve; moisten the sugar with it, and form into drops on paper. 2328.-LEMON DROPS. Ingredients.—6 lemons, sugar. Mode.—Squeeze the juice of the lemons into a basin ; pound and sift loaf sugar, adding it to the juice till it is so thick it can hardly be stirred ; put it into a shallow saucepan and stir it upon the fire for 5 minutes. Drop it from a spoon on to thick paper. 2329-LITTLE CHOCOLATE CAKES OR DROPS. Ingredients.—To each lb. of sugar allow 1 oz. of chocolate. Mode.—Scrape some good chocolate to a powder, and mix 1 oz. to each pound of sugar (pounded and sifted). Make it into a paste with water (cold), and boil up gently. Drop on thick white paper, with a silver or bone spoon. Coffee Drops are made this way, allowing 1 oz. of coffee to x lb. of sugar. 2330.-ORANGE PASTE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of sugar to each lb. of pulp. Mode.—Press out the juice of 5 Seville oranges, boiling the rinds till they are all very soft indeed. With a thin wooden or bone spoon scoop out the pulp ; pound the rinds in a mortar, as fine as possible, with half the extracted juice of the oranges. Rub all through a hair sieve, and keep it on the fire till it becomes like marmalade. Empty it out and weigh it, allowing 2 lbs. of fine pounded sugar to each pound of pulp. Boil it for 10 minutes, spread it out thin on tin plates or tins, and cut it to any shape; dry it and', keep it in tin boxes. Make lemon paste in the same manner, but do not i£se any of the juice.