1588 The Doctor. Treatment.—The diet should be carefully regulated, and all highly-seasoned dishes, alcoholic liquors and pastry be avoided. Walking exercise is highly beneficial. Bathe the affected region every morning with cold water, and care- fully dry. Hazeline is a useful application in bleeding piles. Gall and opium ointment smeared over the parts often gives relief. A quarter-grain morphia suppository may answer when the ointment fails. The bowels should be kept open, and for this purpose the confection of sulphur, confection of senna, or the compound liquorice powder answers well. 3561. Liver Complaints.—The liver, like the kidneys and other organs, is liable to various acute and chronic diseases. Amongst the acute changes may be classed catarrh, or inflammation of the bile ducts, acute atrophy of the liver, congestion and inflammation of the liver, and the presence of gall-stones in the hepatic duct. Catarrh.—Symptoms.—Jaundice, loss of appetite, coated tongue, slight sickness and a feeling of retching: the motions are pale, the urine dark, the skin and eyas become yellow, and there may be, in some cases, a troublesome itching of the skin. Pain is not a very troublesome symptom, and it is generally felt in the right shoulder-blade and along the lower edge of the liver, being often worse on pressure. Treatment.—The best treatment is to open the bowels freely by means of purgative medicines; a dose of calomel at bed-time with a rhubarb draught twice a day will generally suffice. The diet must be very light, and capable of being easily digested : all rich food should be avoided, while milk, broth, beef- tea, toast and biscuits, or a light pudding may be taken. No stimulants ought to be given, as they would only tend to increase the congestion of the liver. Effervescing solutions may be given with benefit, as they allay thirst and sickness; those containing soda salts are the best, and those also which have an aperient action ; for this reason effervescing Carlsbad waters often prove beneficial. In three or four days a mixture containing extract of dandelion, hydrochloric acid and gentian may be given three times a day, and the bowels must be kept open daily; active exercise should be taken daily, if the patient can bear it, and for some time care must be taken to avoid indigestible food. Acute atrophy of the liver is a very formidable disease, and, fortunately, is of rare occurrence. The patient becomes hot and feverish, vomits often, and the skin assumes a deep yellow tint; the liver rapidly shrinks inside so as some- times to lose half its weight. Headache comes on quickly, followed by delirium and insensibility ; the patient lies in a prostrate condition, and there is picking of the bed-clothes and low-muttering delirium ; bleeding may take place from the nose and mouth, and small haemorrhagic spots may be seen in the skin. Death generally occurs in four or five days, and treatment is not of much avail. A “sluggish" or congested liver is generally associated with catarrh of the bile ducts, and arises often from want of exercise and eating and drinking too much, but congestion may go on to inflammation in tropical countries, and end in the formation of an abscess. This may be known by the pain over the region of the liver, the swelling of the abdominal wall on that spot, and the frequent shiverings; the patient loses flesh, strength and appetite, and his skin becomes of a sallow tint. Such people generally come back to this country invalided, and if they get over the illness, they seldom recover their former state of health. A gall-stone in the hepatic duct will cause great pain over the liver, chiefly referred to one spot, much sickness and distress, and a feeling of faintness. A hot bath and the administration of chloroform will ease the pain, while purgative