Italian Restaurants. i2gg 2955. Italian Bon-Bons-—The Italians may be said to equal tne French in the preparation and variety of their bon-bons and chocolate. Although pos- sessing fruit in abundance, their syrups are inferior to those of France, hence no doubt the little use that is generally made of them. Lemonade as a beve- rage is, however, universal. At the tables of the high and of the low, at theatres and places of entertainment, in the streets or under the shadow of trees sheltering sightseers or promenaders, this cooling drink is always at hand. It is made from fresh lemons, sweetened with sugar and almost invariably iced. Of the manufacture of ices in Italy it is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to speak, so widely has their reputation spread amongst us. Neapolitan ices hold, it may be, the highest place, and it must be confessed that they leave nothing to be desired. In a country where the heat is sometimes too much for English people, it is with no small pleasure that one feasts one’s eyes, say at a large reception, upon a pyramid of solidified cream, borne by two waiters, such as we never meet with at home. From an artistic point of view alone it is worth seeing, and how much more worth tasting! Ices of every colour are tastefully piled together, and one’s wish for the most recherche flavour is instantly gratified by a slab of the ice being cut out wherever one may please to indicate. 2956. Italian wines are excellent in quality, and though not in such general use amongst us as French wines, we cannot but be familiar with the small round flasks, with their precautionary covering of fine wicker work, and their plug of cotton wool to preserve the aroma. 2957. Bretty Dishes.—Italians are very happy in their manner of making pretty dishes of all kinds, whether of meat, fish or sweets. Vegetables are cut into different shapes, before being cooked, and piled up in layers of different colours, so as to form a pyramid or some fanciful shape. The moulds for sweets are very graceful, helmets and various other designs being manufactured. Now that nations intermingle as they do, the time cannot be far distant when international cookery will be the order of the day, and when each one of us will adopt and enjoy without prejudice the dishes set before us in the countries through which we travel. Then the profession of a cook, instead of being looked down upon, as strange to say it is in our day, will rank as high as many un- deservedly placed above it. 2958. Italian Restaurants.—The numerous Italian restaurants that have sprung up and been successful, in London and elsewhere, within the last few years, offer testimony to the appreciation of Italian cookery amongst us. yet our cookery books are not so full of Italian recipes as they might be with advantage, nor are we very generally versed in the appellations of the various Italian dishes. Even the so-called national ones are absent from our vocabulary and from our tables. Italians tell us that the cookery of England is distinguished for its scmplicita, hereby implying nothing derogatory, however. The following recipes may be of interest to some of us. Certain it is that we should not regret trying them. Their number might be multiplied exceedingly, but some of them would doubtless not prove attractive to an English palate, others would probably be found too elabo- rate, and others again would be useless to us, as many of the materials for their preparation are either entirely wanting in our own country, or difficult to bo procured.