To Preserve Parsley. 1049 shrivel considerably. Keep them in paper bags, which hang in a dry place. When wanted for use, put them into cold gravy, bring them gradually to simmer, and it will be found that they will regain nearly their usual size. The Mushroom.—The cultivated or garden mushroom is a species of fungus, which, in England, is considered the best, and is there usually eaten. The tribe, however, is numerous, and a large proportion of them are poisonous ; hence it is always dangerous to make use of mushrooms gathered in their wild state. In some parts of Europe, as in Germany, Russia, and Poland, many species grow wild, and are used as food; but in Britain, two only are generally eaten. These are mostly employed for the the mushroom. flavouring of dishes, and are also dried and pickled. Catsup, or Ketchup, is made from them by mixing spices and salt with their juice. The young, called buttons, are the best for pickling when in the globular form. 2280.—TO PRESERVE PARSLEY THROUGH THE WINTER. (Fr.—Persil Sec.) Use freshly-gathered parsley for keeping, and wash it perfectly free from grit and dirt; put it into boiling water which has been slightly salted and well skimmed, and then let it boil for 2 or 3 minutes; take it out, let it drain, and lay it on a sieve in front of the fire, when it should be dried as expeditiously as possible. Store it away in a very dry place in bottles, and when wanted for use, pour over it a little warm water, and let it stand for about 5 minutes. Seasonable.—This may be done at any time between June and October. 2281.—TO HAVE WALNUTS FRESH THROUGHOUT THE SEASON. Ingredients.—To every pint of water allow 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—Place the walnuts in the salt and water for 24 hours at least; then take them out, and rub them dry. Old nuts may be freshened in this manner ; or walnuts, when first picked, may be put into an earthen pan with salt sprinkled amongst them, and with damped hay placed on the top of them, and then covered down with a lid. They must be well, wiped before they are put on table. Seasonable.—Should be stored away in September or October. Walnuts.—The walnut is a native of Persia, the Caucasus, and China, but was introduced to this kingdom from France. The ripe kernel is brought to the dessert on account of its agreeable flavour: and the fruit is also much used in the green state, before the stone hardens, as a pickle. In Spain, grated walnuts are employed in tarts and other dishes. The walnut abounds in oil, which is expressed, and which, being of a highly drying nature, and very limpid, is much employed for delicate painting. This, on the Continent, is sometimes used as a substitute for olive-oil in cooking, but is very apt to turn rancid. It js also manufactured into a kind of soap. The mare, or refuse matter arter the oil is extracted, proves very nutritious for poultry or other domestic animals. In Switzerland, this is eaten by poor people under the name of pain amir.