Beef Rissoles. BEEF ENTREES. 4 23 945—ROAST FILLET OF BEEF (Larded). (Fr.—Filet de Bceuf a I’Espagnole.) Ingredients.—About 4 lbs. of the inside fillet of the sirloin, 1 onion, a small bunch of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, sufficient vinegar to cover the meat, glaze, Spanish sauce. - Mode.—Lard the beef with bacon, and put it into a pan with sufficient vinegar to cover it, with an onion sliced, parsley, and seasoning, and let it remain in this pickle for 12 hours. Roast it before a nice clear fire for about i£ hour, and, when done, glaze it. Pour some Spanish sauce round the beef, and the remainder serve in a tureen. It may be garnished with Spanish onions, boiled and glazed. Time.—ii hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the sauce, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. 946.—MINCED COLLOPS. (Fr.—Escalopes de Boeuf). Ingredients.—1 lb. of rump steak, salt and pepper to taste, 2 oz. oi butter, 1 onion minced, £ pint of water, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce, or lemon-juice, or mushroom ketchup; 1 small bunch of savoury herbs. Mode.—Mince the beef and onion very small, and fry the latter in butter until of a pale brown. Put all the ingredients together in a stew- pan, and boil gently for about 10 minutes ; garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve very hot. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, is. 3 d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 947.—BEEF RISSOLES, (Fr.—Croquettes de Bceuf.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast beef; to each pound of meat allow f lb. of bread-crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a few chopped savoury herbs, ^ a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 or 2 eggs, accord- ing to the quantity of meat. Mode.—Mince the beef very fine, which should be rather lean, and mix with this bread-crumbs, herbs, seasoning and lemon-peel in the above proportion, to each pound of meat. Make all into a thick paste with 1 or 2 eggs ; divide into balls or cones, and fry a rich brown. Garnish the dish with fried parsley, and send with them to table some good brown gravy in a tureen. Instead of garnishing with fried parsley,