372 Various Modes of Cooking Meat. follows upon a cause so wide-spread, there are, on the other hand, many authentic cases of persons and even of animals who have died with symptoms of violent poisoning after eating diseased meat, and it may be that often the effects of sudden and unaccounted-for illness are observed, and are not traced to the cause, i.e. meat bought in the ordinary way of business. At any rate, it may be taken for granted that it is better to eat no meat than to eat any that is doubtful in quality. Meat may also be unwholesome because some strong drug has been admi- nistered to the animal before it was killed, 842. Parasites.—It may also be infested with parasites, and this condition is known to be without doubt most injurious to the consumer. We shall have to speak again of " measly pork ” in another chapter, and of the parasite known as "Trichina spiralis," that also frequently infests the pig. The chief, indeed the only, safeguard against this danger lies in the thorough cooking of the meat, every part of which should be raised to the temperature of boiling water. This applies strictly to all the visceral organs, where these are eaten, because it is in this part of the animal that parasites are most often found. 843. Putrefaction.—Even if the animal be killed in a healthy condition, the meat may become unwholesome by putrefaction. Habit has much to do in accommodating mankind to various kinds of food. Some American Indians prefer putrid meat, and they bury salmon for some months in order to bring it to what they consider a state of perfection. Modern Englishmen eat half putrid game; but such food "has caused severe cholera in persons unaccustomed to eat it in that state.’’ 844. To Choose Good Meat free from these dangers, it is necessary to see that it possesses the following qualifications. We give Dr. Letheby’s rules : I. “ It is neither of a pale pink colour nor of a deep purple tint, for the former is a sign of disease, and the latter indicates that the animal has not been slaughtered, but has died with the blood in it, or has suffered from acute fever." In walking through the wholesale markets, or in looking at a butcher’s shop in a doubtful neighbourhood, both these characteristics may be seen. The inside fat surrounding the kidneys and the liver is often suffused with blood, showing plainly that there has been inflammation of those organs. II. “ It has a marbled appearance, from the ramifications of little veins of fat among the muscles." Meat may be wholesome, yet not fat, as we shall explain later. But a sickly animal never fattens. III. “ It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and should scarcely moisten the fingers ; bad meat being wet, and sodden, and flabby, with the fat looking ; like wet jelly or parchment." IV. “ It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be disagree- able, for diseased meat has a sickly, cadaverous smell, and sometimes a smell of physic. This is very discoverable when the meat is chopped up and drenched with warm water.” V. "It should not shrink or waste much in cooking." This also depends on the mode of cooking, as, for instance, roast meat wastes more than baked, and some joints than others. Badly fed meat, not necessarily unwholesome, wastes, such as pork fed on nuts and offal instead of meal. But it is one reason of the non- economy of dealing with inferior butchers. VI. “ It should not run to water or become very wet on standing for a day or so, but should on the contrary, be dry upon the surface.” It is not uncommon