232 Recipes for Cooking Fish. The Finnan Haddook.—This is the common haddock cured and dried, and takes its name from the fishing-village of Findhorn, near Aberdeen, in Scotland, where the art has long attained to perfection. The haddocks are there hung up for a day or two in the smoke of peat, when they are ready for cooking, and are esteemed, by the Scotch, a great delicacy. In London, an imitation of them is made by washing the fish over with pyroligneous acid, and hanging it up in a dry place for a few days. 484.—RED HERRINGS, or YARMOUTH BLOATERS. (Fr.—Harengs Pecs.) The best way to cook these is to make incisions in the skin across the fish, because they do not then require to be so long on the fire, and will be far better than when cut open. The hard roe makes a nice relish by pounding it in a mortar, with a little anchovy, and spreading it on toast. If very dry, soak in warm water 1 hour before dressing. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, x\d. each. Seasonable, August to March. The Red Herring.—Red herrings lie twenty-four hours in the brine, when they are taken out and hung up in a smoking-house formed to receive them. A brushwood fire is then kindled beneath them, and when they are sufficiently smoked and dried, they are put into barrels for carriage. 485.-BAKED FRESH HERRINGS. (Fr.—Harengs Frais.) Ingredients.—12 herrings, 4 bay-leaves, 12 cloves, 12 allspice, 2 small blades of mace, cayenne pepper and salt to taste, sufficient vinegar to fill up the dish. Mode.—Take the herrings, cut off the heads, and gut them. Put them in a pie-dish, heads and tails alternately, and, between each layer, sprinkle over the above ingredients. Cover the fish with the vinegar, and bake for half an hour, but do not use it till quite cold. The herrings may be cut down the front, the back-bone taken out, and closed again. Sprats done in this way are very delicious. Time.—£ hour. Average Cost, 6d. per doz. Seasonable, May to November. To Ch oose the Herring.—The more scales this fish has, the surer the sign of its freshness. It should also have a bright and silvery look ; but if red about the head, it is a sign that it has been dead for some time. The Herring.—The herring tribe are found in the greatest abundance in the highest northern latitudes, where they find a quiet retreat, and security from their numerous enemies. Here they multiply beyond ex- pression, and, in shoals, come forth from their icy region to visit other portions of the great deep. In June they are found about Shetland, whence they proceed down to the Orkneys, where they divide, and surround the islands of Great Britain and Ireland. The principal British herring fisheries are off the Scotch and Norfolk coasts ; and the fishing is always carried on by means of nets, which are usually laid at night; for, if stretched by day, they are supposed to frighten the fish away. The moment the her- ring is taken out of the water it dies. Hence the origin of the common saying, “dead as a herring.’’ THE HERRING.