1555 Poultices. 3496—BREAD-AND WATER POULTICE. (Abernethey’s Plan.) First scald out a basin; then, having put in some boiling water, throw in coarsely-crumbled bread, and cover it with a plate. When the bread has soaked up as much water as it will imbibe, drain off the remain- ing water, and there will be left a light pulp. Spread this a third of an inch thick on folded linen, and apply it when of the temperature of a warm bath. To preserve it moist, occasionally drop warm water on it. 3497-—LINSEED-MEAL POULTICE. A linseed poultice being always needed hot, care should be taken that it is made so. Put the meal into the oven to heat for a quarter of an hour, and scald out the basin in which it is to be mixed with boiling water. Next pour in as much boiling water as is needed according to the size of the poultice required; then, stirring with a knife all the time, shake in the hot meal till the poultice is sufficiently thick. In some cases it is better to put the poultice upon the skin, when, to prevent its sticking, it may be slightly oiled. A paper cut rather larger than the poultice will then serve for spreading it on. Where it is preferred that it should not touch the skin, an old thin handkerchief answers well for a wrapper, the surplus being turned over at the back of the poultice. In either case it should be covered with cotton-wool and oil-silk to retain the heat as long as possible. 3498.—MUSTARD POULTICE. This most useful application is made in a variety of ways. The simplest, the cleanest, and most efficacious for ordinary purposes, we believe to be the following Take a piece of soft flannel, dip it in boiling water, wring it out immediately, and sprinkle one side of it with fresh flour of mustard. The flannel should, while being sprinkled, be laid upon a hot plate, that no warmth may be lost. Another way of making a mustard poultice is by spreading a large tablespoonful of mustard, made in the ordinary way as if for table, on a piece of soft linen, and warming it before the fire when it is to be applied. A third, and better plan if warmth be needed, is to make a common bread poultice and stir into it a tablespoonful of mustard, either fresh or mixed. It is frequently desirable, with poultices made on either of the last two plans, to place a piece of fine muslin or gauze between the poultice and the skin. 3499.—MUSTARD AND LINSEED POULTICE. Mix equal parts of dry mustard and linseed-meal in warm vinegar. When the poultice is wanted weak, warm water may be used for the