Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 322 709.—FENNEL SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Fenouil.) (For Mackerel.) Ingredients.—£ pint of melted butter, No. 677 ; rather more than 1 tablespoonful of chopped fennel. Mode.—Make the melted butter very smooth- ly, by recipe, No. 677 ; chop the fennel rather small, carefully cleansing it from any grit or dirt, and put it to the butter when this is on the point of boiling. Simmer for a minute or two, and serve in a tureen. Time.—2 minutes. Average Cost, Sufficient to serve with 5 or 6 mackerel. Fennel. (Fr.—Fenouil.) — This eiegantly-growing plant, of which the Latin name is Anethum fceniculum, grows best in chalky soils, where, indeed, it is often found wild. It is very generally cultivated in gardens, and has much improved on its original form. Various dishes are frequently ornamented and garnished with its graceful leaves, and these are sometimes boiled in soups, although it is more usually confined, in English cookery, to the mackerel sauce as here given. 710.—FINANCIERE SAUCE. (Fo* Fish.) Ingredients.—pint of Spanish sauce, No. 775; 1 oz. of fish glaze, 3 gills of madeira, ditto essence of truffles, ditto essence of mushrooms. Mode.—Put the above ingredients on the fire in a stewpan, let them boil, then keep them boiling for 6 minutes. Strain through a cloth. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. (For Poultry.) Ingredients.—1 quart of Espagnole sauce, No. 775; £ pint each of essence of truffles, essence of mushrooms and essence of chicken. Mode.—Put the above ingredients into a pan and boil till they are reduced sufficiently to adhere to a spoon ; then strain through a cloth, or a silk sieve, into a bain-marie pan. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. per pint. Seasonable at any time. (For Game.) Ingredients.—1^ pint of Espagnole sauce, No. 775; 3 gills each of essence of truffles and essence of game. Mode.—Put the above into a stewpan and reduce over a good fire for 10 minutes, strain and put by till wanted. Time.—10 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. per pint. Jisasoixable, August to February.