4 The Mistress. 9. Good Temper should he cultivated by every mistress, as upon it the welfare of the household may be said to turn ; indeed, its influence can hardly be over-estimated, as it has the effect of moulding the characters of those around her, and of acting most beneficially on the happiness of the domestic circle. Every head of a household should strive to be cheerful, and should never fail to show a deep interest in all that appertains to the well-being of those who claim the protection of her roof. Gentleness, not partial and tem- porary, but universal and regular, should pervade her conduct; for where such a spirit is habitually manifested, it not only delights her children, but makes her domestics attentive and respectful; her visitors are also pleased by it, and their happiness is increased. 10. On the Important Subject of Dress and Fashion we cannot do better than quote an opinion. “Get people write, talk, lecture, satirise, as they may, it cannot be denied that, whatever is the prevading mode in attire, let it intrinsically be ever so absurd, it will never look as ridiculous as another, or as any other, which, however convenient, comfortable, ox even becoming, is totally opposite in style to that generally worn,” The dress of the mistress should be always adapted to her circumstances, an 1 be varied with different occasions. Thus, at breakfast she should be attired in a very neat and simple manner, wear- ing no ornaments. If this dress should decidedly pertain only to the breakfast- hour, and be specially suited for such domestic occupations as usually follow that meal, then it would be well to change it before the time for the arrival of visitors, if the mistress be in the habit of “ receiving.” It is still to be remembered, how- ever, that, in changing the dress, jewellery and ornaments are not to be worn until the full dress for dinner is assumed. It is the duty, as well as the privilege of every mistress to dress as well and as tastefully as her means will allow, with- out spending too much time upon the subject. Further information and hints on the subject of the toilet will appear under the department of the “ Lady’s- Maid.” In purchasing wearing apparel for her own wear, a mistress of a house- hold has to consider—after the important fact of the length of her purse—that the garments should be those befitting a matron, that they should be suited to her requirements for home wear, outdoor attire, or entertainment, and for these three cases one should be in keeping with the other. The quaint Fuller observes that “ The good wife is none of your dainty dames, who love to appear in a variety of suits every day new, as if a gown, like a stratagem in war, were to be used but once. But our good wife sets up a sail according to the keel of her husband’s estate ; and, if of high parentage, she doth not so remember what she was by birth, that she forgets what she is by match.” The advice of Polonius to his son Laertes, in Shakespeare’s tragedy of “ Hamlet,’’ is most excel- lent ; and although given to one of the male sex, will equally apply to a “ fayre ladye: ”— “ Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, But not express’d in fancy; rich, not gaudy; For the apparel oft proclaims the man.” 11, Charity and Benevolence are duties which a mistress owes tz herself as well as to her fellow creatures ; and there is no income so small bu something may be spared from it, even if it be but “ the widow’s mite.” It i to be always remembered, however, that it is the spirit of charity whic imparts to the gift a value beyond its actual amount, and is by far its betteg part. True Charity, a plant divinely nursed, Fed by the love from which it rose at first.