Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. 882 Mode.—Make a thick batter with the flour and milk (or water; and salt. Drop small portions, like buttons, into boiling water, and boil them five minutes. They are done when they float on the top. Strain them, and put them into a dish. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bread- crumbs, and fry them crisp ; then pour over the “sparrows,” and serve at once, hot and light. Time.—io minutes. Average Cost, with milk, 5d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1879.—TAPIOCA PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 oz. of tapioca 1 quart of milk, 2 oz. of butter, £ lb. of sugar, 4 eggs, flavouring of vanilla, grated lemon-rind, or bitter almonds, puff-paste. Mode.—Wash the tapioca and let it stew gently in the milk by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour, occasionally stirring it; then let it cool a little; mix with it the butter, sugar and eggs, which should be well beaten, and flavour with either of the above ingredients, putting in about 12 drops of the essence of almonds or vanilla, whichever is pre- ferred. Butter a pie-dish, and line the edges with puff-paste; put in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. If the pudding is to be boiled, add a little more tapioca, and boil it in a buttered basin hour. Time.—1 hour to bake, hour to boil. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Tapioca.—Tapioca is recommended to the convalescent, as being easy of digestion. It may be used in soup or broth, or mixed with milk or water and butter. It is excellent food for either the healthy or sick, for the reason that it is so quickly digested without fatigue to the stomach. 1880.—TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH APPLES. Ingredients.—1 cupful of tapioca, 2 lb. oi cooking apples, sugar, 1 lemon. Mode.—Soak the tapioca in cold water for 12 hours, then pour a pint of boiling water on it and cook it slowly for 20 minutes. Pare and core the apples, and cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with them ; fill the cavities with sugar, and flavour with lemon. Pour the tapioca over the apples, and bake in a slow oven one honr. Serve hot, or cold, with sugar. Sago may be used in the same way. Ti me.—1 hour and 20 minutes. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time.