I034 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. Mode.—Choose ripe tomatoes, and wipe them dry, take off the skin of the onions and put, with the other ingredients, in a stewpan, where jet them gently simmer for 8 hours. When cold, bottle and tie over with bladder. Time.—8 hours. Average Cost, for this quantity, 3s. Seasonable.—This pickle should be made in autumn. 2240.-U N I V E R S A L PICKLE. (Fr.—Marinade Universelle.) Ingredients.—To 6 quarts of vinegar allow 1 lb. of salt, £ lb. of ginger, 1 oz. of mace, \ lb. of shalots, 1 tablespoonful of cayenne, 2 oz. of mustard- seed, 1^ oz. of turmeric. Mode.—Boil all the ingredients together for about 20 minutes ; when cold, put them into a jar with whatever vegetables you choose, such as radish-pods, French beans, cauliflowers, gherkins, &c. &c., as these com® into season ; put them in fresh as you gather them, having previously wiped them perfectly free from moisture and grit. This pickle will be fit for use in about 8 or 9 months. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, is. per quart. Seasonable.—Make the pickle in May or June, to be ready for the various vegetables. Note.—As this pickle takes 2 or 3 months to make—that is to say, nearly that time will elapse before all the different vegetables are added—care must be taken to keep the jar which contains the pickle well covered, either with a closely- fitting lid, or a piece of bladder securely tied over, so as perfectly to exclude the air. 2241.—PICKLED WALNUTS. (Fr.—Noix Maringes.) (Very Good.) Ingredients.—100 walnuts, salt and water. To each quart of vinegar allow 2 oz. of whole black pepper, 1 oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of bruised ginger. Mode.—Procure the walnuts while young ; be careful they are not woody, and prick them well with a fork; prepare a strong brine of salt and water (4 lbs. of salt to each gallon of water), into which put the walnuts, letting them remain 9 days, and changing the brine every third day; drain them off, put them on a dish, place it in the sun until they become perfectly black, which will be in 2 or 3 days; have ready dry jars, into which place the walnuts, and do not quite fill the jars. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, for 10 minutes, with spices in the above proportion, and pour it hot over the walnuts, which must be quite covered