CHAPTER LXIX. WOMEN SERVANTS' DUTIES, THE LADVT MAID. 3259. The qualifications a lady’s maid should possess are a thorough knowledge of hair dressing, dressmaking and repairing and restoring clothes. She should be able to pack well, and her taste, being often called into requisition in matters of dress, should be good. It is also essential that she be well spoken, quiet in manner and quick ; that she should be clean and honest goes without saying. A lady’s maid having so much more intercourse with her mistress than any other servant should not only possess, but learn, discretion from day to day. To know when to speak and when to be silent, and to be willing to bear with patience any little caprices of taste and temper with which she may have to contend. 3260. Morning Duties of the Lady’s Maid Her first duty in the morning, after having performed her own toilet, is to prepare the bath and everything for dressing for her mistress, taking her an early cup of tea if she requires one. She then examines the clothes put off by her mistress the evening before, either to put them a.way, or to see that they are all in order to put on again. During the winter and in wet weather, the dresses should be carefully examined, and the mud removed. Dresses of tweed, and other woollen materials may be laid out on a table and brushed all over; but in general, even in woollen fabrics, the lightness of the tissues renders brushing unsuitable to dresses, and it is better to remove the dust from the folds by beating them lightly with a handkerchief or thin cloth. Silk dresses should never be brushed, but rubbed with a piece of merino, or other soft material, of a similar colour, kept for the purpose. Summer dresses of barege, muslin, mohair, and other light materials, simply require shaking; but if the muslin be tumbled, it must be ironed afterwards. If the dresses require slight repair, it should be done at once : ‘‘ a stitch in time saves nine.” The bonnet should be dusted with a light feather plume. in order to remove every particle of dust; but this has probably been done, as it ought to have been, the night before. Velvet bonnets and other velvet articles of dress should be cleaned wifh a soft brush. If the flowers with which the bonnet is decorated have been crushed or misplaced, or the leaves tumbled, they should be raised and read- justed by means of flower pliers. If feathers have suffered from damp, they should be held near the fire for a few minutes, and restored to their natural state DRESS STAND.