9*4 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, Sc. Mode.—The gelatine, &c., must be soaked in cold water—6 hours is the prescribed time, but less than that will effect the purpose desired if as little delay as possible must be ensured. Perfectly-boiling water should then be poured gradually upon the gelatinous mass; but it must never be allowed to really boil. Calves’ feet are very rarely now used for the making of stock for jellies. By means of Swin- borue’s Patent Refined Isinglass, jelly may be made with the greatest facility in a few minutes, possessing the nutriment of the calves’ feet, JFLLY-MOULD. without the impurities. It should be noted that isin- glass or gelatine, used for stock, should be increased somewhat in quantity in summer. How to make a Jelly-bag.—The very stout flannel called double- mill, used for ironing blankets, is the best material for a jelly-bag; those of home manufacture are the only ones to be relied on for thoroughly clearing the jelly. Care should be taken that the seam of the bag be stitched twice, to secure it against unequal filtration. The most convenient mode of using the bag is to tie it upon a hoop the esact size of the outside of its mouth ; and, to do this, string should he sewn round it at equal distances. The jelly-bag may, of course, be made any size ; but one of twelve or fourteen inches deep, and seven or eight across the mouth, will be sufficient for ordinary use. The form of a jelly-bag is the fool's-cap. 1950.-AN ECONOMICAL JELLY. Ingredients.—1 oz. of gelatine, 3d. packet of citric acid, £ lb. of loaf sugar, % pint of orange wine. Mode.—Soak 1 oz. of Swinborne’s Calves’ Feet Gelatine in half a pint of cold water for 5 or 6 hours, or, when convenient, over night; then add citric acid, and three quarters of a lb. of loaf sugar; pour on 1 pint of boiling water, and half a pint of orange or other wine (cold); stir for a few minutes before pouring into the mould. « 1951.—RUM CREAM. (Fv.—Creme au Rhum.) Ingredients.—£ pint of cream or milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, 1 bay* leaf, 3 eggs, £ oz. of gelatine, small wineglassful of rum, syrup of capib laire. Mode.—Boil the cream or milk with 2 oz. of sugar and the bay-leaf. Pour this on the yolks of 3 well-beaten eggs, and stir till thick over a slow fire. Remove the bay-leaf, let the custard stand, stirring occasion- ally until it is nearly cold. Dissolve by boiling a quarter of an oz. of gela- tine (Nelson’s), previously soaked in cold water for 5 or 6 hours, then let it stand till cool. When the gelatine and custard are cool, stir them well