The Doctor. 1564 illumination (the electric and oxy-hydrogen lights excepted) exercise a powerful influence in rendering the air of an apartment impure. With natural ventilation, that is, ventilation from the cracks of doors and windows, it is almost impossible to replace the air of a chamber more than three times in an hour without exposing the inmates to unpleasant currents of air, and therefore it is necessary that persons should not congregate in a room to a greater number than one to every one thousand cubic feet. An apartment ten feet high, ten feet wide and twenty feet long, should contain two persons ; and in a chamber twenty feet square and ten feet high, four persons, •but no more, might be allowed to sit, eat or sleep. Of course these laws of health are constantly outraged by the poor and the ignorant as well as the parsimonious and the foolhardy, but sooner or later such violations are sure to entail their own punishment. 3521. Pure Water.—Water is the second great material necessary for existence, it being estimated that man can live without it only some three to five days, while he can exist without sleep for seven days and without food for ten or fifteen. If water is thus an absolute requisite for life, pure water is a no less imperative necessity for health, and, inasmuch as it is apt to become contaminated on account of its great solvent powers, it is necessary to watch carefully the sources of our supply. Water constitutes about three-fourths of the surface of the earth, and the greater part of the bodies of man and other animals; some vegetables may contain as much as ninety-five per cent, of it. A healthy individual requires from three to five pints of water daily, nearly one-third of this quantity being contained in articles of diet, and the rest supplied ■to the system in the form of liquids. Rain water is the purest of all forms ordinarily met with, if collected as it falls in clean vessels. Rivers are probably the most usual sources of supply for our drinking-waters, and if due care is exercised to prevent contamination of the -liquid from sewers, factories, &c., this variety of water is one of the least objectionable. A certain amount of saline impurity, especially of the sulphates and chlorides of the alkaline earths, must be present in order to render the river water safe from contamination of lead pipes, if these are used for distributing the fluid, as they are in most of our larger cities and towns. The. way in which these soluble salts act is by forming with the metal an insoluble coating over the inner suface of the pipe, which mechanically precludes ■the water from having any action upon the metallic surface. It is on account of the very purity of rain water from these saline compounds, that lead pipes or lead-lined cisterns should never be used for its conveyance or retention. 3522. Pain Water.—When rain water falls upon the surface of the -ground, a portion of the moisture runs off into brooks, creeks and rivers, but a ■much larger part soaks downwards through the earth, and after a few hours or days finds its way, by the minute holes in the soil, into our wells. In the course of its journey it may meet with materials from the animal kingdom, which often change our drinking-water into slow and insidious poison, or into swift agents of sudden destruction. Two of the most fatal scourges of humanity— cholera and typhoid fever—are particularly apt to be transmitted from one •victim to another by way of contaminated well-water. Recent observations upon the propagation and spread of diphtheria tend to show that in all those instances of excessive malignity, when whole families of •children have been swept away in a few weeks, careful examination will revea]