201 Fish with the Ancients. variety of relish to the dish they were called upon to prepare. Athenaeus has transmitted to posterity some very important precepts upon their ingenuity in seasoning with salt, oil and aromatics. At the present day the food of the Greeks, through the combined influence of poverty and the long fasts which their religion imposes upon them, is, to a large extent, composed of fish, accom- panied with vegetables and fruit. Caviare, prepared from the roes of sturgeons, is the national ragout, which, like all other fish dishes, they season with aromatic herbs. Snails dressed in garlic are also a favourite fish. 412. —Love for Fish amongst the Homans.— As the Romans, in a great measure, took their taste in the Fine Arts fiom the Greeks, so did they, in some measure, their piscine appetites. The eel-pout and the lotas’s liver were the favourite fish dishes of the Roman epicures ; whilst the red mullet was esteemed as one of the most delicate fishes that could be brought to the table. With all the elegance, taste and refinement of Roman luxury, it was sometimes promoted or accompanied by acts of great barbarity. In proof of this, the mention of the red mullet suggests the mode in which it was sometimes treated for the horrible entertainment of the fashionable in Roman circles. It may be premised, that as England has, Rome, in her palmy days had her fops who had, no doubt, through the medium of their cooks, discovered that when the scales of the red mullet were removed, the flesh presented a fine pink colour. Having discovered this, it was further observed that at the death of the animal, this colour passed through a succession of beautiful shades, and, in order that these might be witnessed and enjoyed in their fullest perfection, the poor mullet was served alive in a glass vessel. The love of fish among the ancient Romans rose to a real mania. Apicius offered a prize to anyone who could invent a new brine (marinade) compounded of the liver of red mullets ; and Lucullus had a canal cut through a mountain, in the neighbourhood of Naples, that fish might be the more easily transported to the gardens of his villa. Hortensius, the orator, wept over the death of a turbot which he had fed with his own hands; and the daughter of Drusus adorned one that she had with rings of gold. These were, surely, instances of misplaced affec- tion, but there is no accounting for tastes. 413. From Rome to Gaul is, considering the'means of modern locomotion, no great way ; but the ancient sumptuary laws of that kingdom give us little infor- mation regarding the ichthyophagous propensities of its inhabitants. In the days of the Troubadours, whales were fished for and caught in the Mediterranean Sea, for the purpose of being used as human food. Louis XII. engaged six fishmongers to furnish his board with fresh-water animals, and Francis I. had twenty-two, whilst Henry the Great extended his requirements a little further and had twenty- four. In the time of Louis XIV. the cooks had attained to such a degree of per- fection in their art that they could convert the form and flesh of the trout, pike, or carp, into the very shape and flavour of the most delicious game. The French have long enjoyed the highest reputation for their skill and refinement in the prepar- ing of food. In place of plain joints, French cookery delights in the marvels of made-dishes, ragouts, stews, and fricassees, in which the original materials are manipulated with a carefulness and scientific accuracy which result in transcendent success. 414. From Gaul to Briton, where it has been asserted, by at least one authority, that the ancient inhabitants eat no fish. However this may be, we know that the British shores, particularly those ofthe North Sea, have always been well supplied with the best kinds of fish, which we may reasonably infer was not unknown to the inhabitants, or likely to be lost upon them for the lack of know- ledge as to how they tasted. By the time of Edward II. fish had, in England, become a dainty, especially the sturgeon, which was permitted to appear on no table but that of the king. In the fourteenth century, a decree of King John informs us that the people eat both seals and porpoises. Whatever checks the ancient British may have had upon their piscatory appetites, there are happily none of any great consequence upon the modern, who delight in wholesome food of every