Cone Decoration. 1053 adapted for ladies who take an interest in culinary arts, and we venture to suggest that some may find the decoration of a cake as interesting as that of an antimacassar; while patterns as pretty as those they can embroider can be made in much less time with a paper cone, to serve as ornamentation for all sorts of viands. Cookery is now considered part of the education of our girls, no matter to what rank they belong, and the fanciful decorative part is the one that generally holds the most attraction for them. We trust that some of the recipes and illustra- tions we give for fancy cakes may tempt some to try if they cannot make for themselves the christening, birthday, tennis, or other cakes now so generally bought at the pastrycook’s. We do not recommend beginners to start by trying to model a bridge or a house, cmz nrst to try their skill upon such little things as those small cakes generally known as petits fours, and they will be surprised what a pretty variety of ornaments can be made out of ordinary sponge or pound cake alone. These cut into fanciful shapes, iced, decorated with such ornamental things as preserved cherries and other crystallised fruits, Angelica, or finely-cut candied peel. In commencing pastry modelling, waste of material will be saved by first making a cheap paste, and trying the work and your own dexterity with that, before attempting the use of nougat or almond paste. It is most essential that the groundwork of the ornamental stands should be firm and level, and it is best to cut out the model in cardboard first, and see that the parts fit, then, laying them upon the paste, they can be cut from that without fear of mistake. 2291. Cone decoration.—The next step will be the cone decoration, which can be done with butter 01 meringue paste, ac- cording to the material of the dish requiring ornamentation, for this cone decoration is wanted quite as much for savouries as sweets. Those who have not tried this kind of ornamentation will be surprised what pretty effects can be obtained with the simplest of materials, consisting of a paper cone, cut according to accompanying illus- tration and descriptions, and either white of egg and sugar, or plain butter, according to the dish to be decorated. 2292. To Make a Paper Cone.—Cut a sheet of stiff kitchen paper diagonally, so as to get a right angle triangle x, 2, 3; 1, 2 being twice the length of 1, 3. Divide the hypo- thenuse 2, 3, into equal parts at 4 and 5. Fold from 5 to r, so that 3 may come on P between 2 and 1. Fold 2 over to 5 at 4, 6. Shape the cone, the apex of which is 5, thus :—Open the paper and hold it before you with the line 3, 2 facing you, the thumb of the left hand being on 5, 3, with 2 on your right, and with the right hand bring 5 to 3, and keep it in this position, which will give the size and shape of the cone. Next, withdraw the thumb of the left hand from 5, and keeping 3 on 3 ; with FIG. I, PAPER FOR COiiE. FIG. 2, FOLDED PAPER. PIG. 3, CONE FILLED.