804 Recipes for Puddings and Pastry. was an especial object of their adoration; the Persians would not wash their hands ; the Scythians honoured the Danube ; the Greeks and Romans erected altars to the fountains and rivers; and some of the architectural embellishrqents executed for fountains in Greece were re- markable for their beauty and delicacy. The purity of the water was a great object of the care of the ancients ; and we learn that the Athenians appointed four officers to keep watch and ward over the water in the city. These men had to keep the fountains in order and clean the re- servoirs, so that the water might be preserved pure and limpid. Like officers were appointed in other Greek cities. 1684—SUET CRUST. (.For Pies or Puddings.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 5 or 6 oz. of beef suet, £ pint of water. Mode.—Free the suet from skin and shreds; chop it extremely fine, and rub it well into the flour; work the whole to a smooth paste, with the above proportion of water; roll it out, and it is ready for use. This crust is quite rich enough for ordinary purposes ; but when a better one is desired, use from half to three-quarters of a pound of suet to every lb. of flour. Some cooks, for rich crusts, pound the suet in a mortar, with a small quantity of butter. It should then be laid on the paste in small pieces, the same as for puff-crust, and will be found exceedingly nice for hot tarts. 5 oz. of suet to every lb. of flour will make a very good crust; and even a quarter of a lb. will answer very well for children, or where the crust is wanted very plain. Average Cost, Ad. per lb. 1685.—PATE BRISEE, or FRENCH CRUST. (For Raised Pies.) Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 4 saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, \ pint of water, 6 oz. of butter. Mode.—Spread the flour, which should be sifted and thoroughly dry, on the paste-board ; make a hole in the centre, into which put the butter; work it lightly into the flour, and, when quite fine, add the salt; work the whole into a smooth paste with the eggs (yolks and whites) and water, and make it very firm. Knead the paste well, and let it be rather stiff", that the sides of the pie may be easily raised, and that they do not after- wards tumble or shrink. Average Cost, 10d. per lb. Note.—This paste may be very much enriched by making it with equal quantities of flour and butter ; but then it is not so easily raised as when made plainer. Water Supply in Rome.—Nothing in Italy is more extraordinary than the remains of the aqueducts. At first, the Romans were contented with the water from the Tiber. AncusMartius was the first to commence the building of aqueducts destined to convey the water of the foun- tain of Piconia from the Tiber to Rome, a distance of some 33,000 paces. Appius Claudius con- tinued the good work, and to him is due the completion of the celebrated Appian way. In time the gigantic waterways greatly multiplied, and, by the reign of Nero, there were constructed nine principal aqueducts, the pipes of which were of bricks, baked tiles, stone, lead or wood. Accord- ing to the calculation of Vigenerus, half a million hogsheads of water were conveyed into Rome