The Mistress. 10 unless they are particularly well-trained and orderly, and she is on exceedingly friendly terms with the hostess, should not accompany a lady in making morning calls. Where a lady, how- ever, pays her visits in a carriage, the children can be taken, remaining in it when the lady enters her friend’s house. With respect to morning calls, it hag become very general with the mistress of a house to set aside one day in every week, fortnight, or month, as the case may be, on which she is at home to receive callers. Wherever this is known to be the case, the visitors should make it a rule to go on no other day. It is hardly necessary to add that any lady who has made such an arrange- ment must always be prepared for her guests on such days. If any circumstance obliges her to be from home on such a day, she must carefully inform all her acquaintances of the matter in good time, that they may be spared making a fruitless journey. It is usual, when this is the case, and such cards have been issued as, for example, “ Mrs. A At Home on Wed nesdays_ from 4 to 7," that afternoon tea should be provided by the hostess, fresh supplies of it, with its accompanying thin bread-and-butter, cakes, &c., being forthcoming as fresh guests arrive. 24. Morning Calls demand good but neat attire; for a costume very different from that you generally, wear, or anything approaching an evening dress will be very much out of place. As a general rule, it may be said, both in reference to this and all other occasions, it is better to be underdressed than overdressed. A strict account should be kept of ceremonial visits, and notice be taken how soon your visits have been returned. An opinion may thus be formed as to whether your frequent visits are, or are not, desirable. There are, naturally, instances when the circumstances of old age or ill- health will preclude any return of a call ; but when this is the case, it must not interrupt the dis- charge of the duty by those who have not such excuses to make. 25. Visits of Condolence should be paid within a week after the event which occasions them. If the acquaintance, however, is but slight, then imme- diately after the family has appeared in public. A lady should send in her card, and, if her friends be able to receive her, the visitor's manner and conversation should be subdued, and in harmony with the character of her visit. Visitors paying visits of condolence should be dressed either in black sdk or plain- coloured apparel. Sympathy with the affliction of the family is thus expressed, and these attentions are, in such cases, pleasing and soothing. In all visits, if your acquaintance or friend be not at home, a card should be left. If in a carriage, the servant will answer your inquiry and receive your card; if paying your visits on foot, give your card to the servant in the hall, but leave to go in and rest should on no account be asked. The form of words, “ Not at home," may be understood in different senses; but the only courteous way is to receive them as being perfectly true. You may imagine that the lady of the house is really at home, and that she would make an exception in your lavour, or you may think that your acquaintance is not desired ; but, in either case, not the slightest word is to escape you which would suggest, on your part, such an impression. 26. Receiving Morning Calls. — The foregoing description of the etiquette to be observed in paying them will be of considerable service. It is to be added, however, that the occupations of drawing, music, or reading should be suspended on the entrance of morning visitors. If a lady, however, be engaged with light needlework—and none other is appropriate in the drawing-room—it may not be, under some circumstances, inconsistent with good breeding to quietly continue it during conversation, particularly if the visit be protracted. Formerly the custom was to accompany all visitors quitting the house to the door of the house, and there take leave of them ; but modern society, which has thrown off a great deal of this kind of ceremony, now merely requires that the lady of the house should rise from her seat, shake hands, or bow, according to the intimacy she has with her guests, and ring the bell to summon the servant to attend them and open the door. In making a first call, either upon a newly- married couple or persons newly arrived in the neighbourhood, a lady should leave her hus- band’s card, together with her own, at the same time stating that the profession or business in which he is engaged has prevented him from having the pleasure of paying the visit with her. It is a custom with many ladies, when on the eve of an absence from their neighbourhood, to leave or send their own and husband’s cards, with the letters P. P. C. in the right hand corner. These letters are the initials of the French words Pour prendre congt, meaning “To take leave,” or P. D. A., Pour dire adieu, “To say good-bye.” The fashion of visiting cards varies much. They are made extremely thin and highly glazed ; but by some enamelled cards are preferred to plain. When calling to enquire at a house during