Raisin Wine. 1207 2694.—HOME-MADE NOYEAU. Ingredients.—2 oz. of bitter almonds, 1 oz. of sweet ditto, 1 lb. of loai sugar, the rinds of 3 lemons, 1 quart of Irish whiskey or gin, 1 tablespoon* ful of clarified honey, pint of new milk. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds, and mix with them the sugar, which should also be pounded. Boil the milk; let it stand till quite cold, then mix all the ingredients together, and let them remain for 10 days, shaking them every day. Filter the mixture through blotting-paper, bottle off for use in small bottles, and seal the corks down. This will be found useful for flavouring many sweet dishes. Average Cost, 2s. gd. Sufficient to make about 2\ pints of noyeau. Seasonable.—May be made at any time. 2695.-RAISIN WINE. Ingredients.—10 lbs. of raisins, i lb. of sugar. Mode.—The raisins must be sound and large. Pick them very clean and chop finely. Pour a gallon of hot water on them and press the liquor through a bag. Let it stand 12 hours, then put in the sugar and leave it to ferment. When this is over, cask it, bung it and leave it for 3 months; then draw it off into another cask, quite filling it. Bung very closely and bottle in 10 months’ time. It will be fit to drink in a year. Time.—About 2 years. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. per gallon. Seasonable.—Make this at any time. 2696.—TURNIP WINE. Ingredients.—Sound turnips, 3 lbs. of loaf sugar and £ pint of brandy to each gallon of juice. Mode.—Wash, pare and slice the turnips, put them into a cider-press and press out the juice. Then add the sugar and brandy, put all into a cask and bung loosely. When fermentation is over, bung it closely for 3 months; then draw it off into a clean cask. When clear, bottle it. It will be ready in a year. Time.—16 or 18 months. Average Cost, 2s. per gallon. Seasonable.—Make this in Autumn. 2697.—ANISE LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—1 quart of brandy, 1 oz. of anise-seed, 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Put the anise-seed into good brandy and let it stand a fort- night, shaking it occasionally. Boil the sugar in 2 quarts of water to a strong syrup. Filter the brandy through blotting-paper and add to the syrup ; then bottle and cork it well,