gg6 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. Time.—From 5 to 6 hours in a very slow oven. Seasonable in August and September. the plums, until it stands one inch above the fruit; cut a piece of paper to fit the inside of the jar, over which pour melted mutton-suet; cover down with brown paper, and keep the jars in a dry, cool place. When required for use, the suet should be removed, the water poured off, and the jelly at the bottom of the jar used and mixed with the fruit. Seasonable in September and October. 2151. -COMPOTE OF GREEN FIGS. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, No. 2115, pint of green figs, the rind of i lemon. Mode.—Make a syrup by recipe No. 2115, boiling it with the lemon- rind, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Put in the figs, and simmer them very slowly until tender; place them on a glass dish; reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly for 5 minutes; take out the lemon-peel, pour the syrup over the figs, and the compote, when cold, will be ready for table. A little port wine, or lemon juice, added just before the figs are done, will be found an improvement. Time.—2 to 3 hours to stew the figs. Average Cost, figs, -2s. to 3s. per dozen. 2152. —TO BOTTLE FRESH FRUIT. (Very Useful in Winter.) Ingredients.—Fresh fruit, such as currants, raspberries, cherries, gooseberries, plums of all kinds, damsons, &c.; wide-mouthed glass bottles, new corks to fit them tightly. Mode.—Let the fruit be full grown, but not too ripe, and gathered in dry weather. Pick it off the stalks without bruising or breaking the skin, and reject any that is at all blemished ; if gathered in the damp, or if the skins are cut at all, the fruit will mould. Have ready some perfectly dry glass bottles, and some nice new soft corks or bungs ; burn a match in each bottle, to exhaust the air, and quickly place the fruit in to be pre- served ; gently cork the bottles, and put them into a very cool oven, where let them remain until the fruit has shrunk away a fourth part. Then take the bottles out; do not open them, but immediately beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and cover them with melted resin. If kept in a dry place, the fruit will remain good for months ; and on this principally depends the success of the preparation; for if stored away in a place that is the least damp, the fruit will soon spoil. COMPOTE OF FIGS.