1633 Notice to Quit. -,he entry must be effected between sunrise and sunset, it being seriously illegal to attempt to enter between sunset and su?rl® ' by any0ne authorised by Entry may be effected by^ff If a Soor window, 0/ other aperture be him in writing so to do, as his _ be made that way, and if the fastening found open or unfastened, the entry my putting the hand through a broken of an aperture can be unfastened as by putting t or breaking m of window/that may be done but .be»}«£*•^degree ^ ava„able, and any kind, is seriously illegal. deferred until some opportunity arises duriifg'the d^L^enanfand his family being at liberty to go and come during by some stratagem—sometimes y g , demand the rent. If the rent the bailiff, upon entry, to show ,tVh ^ seizes the 8°°ds f°f be not immediately paid, it 13 th“ b‘S £ ^ the goods as he thinks sufficient; the rent. He must then select so much t ? inner door. He must for which purpose he may 1.notb land[ord is liable if an exces- then make an inventory of the J00^1?^ of the goods continue in the control sive quantity of goods be seized. COmoleted it must be delivered to the of the tenant. When the inventory P five d after entry, during tenant. Nothing else can be 1U discharge the bailiff, who must give which time payment of rent and costs w d g possession continu- a receipt and retire. It is usual for the bailiff ‘0 ™^ ^ he is th ously, but if he goes away and returns ° d t hold possession for the entitled to break in. Any person can be delegated ro bailiff. .. ywromises is liable to seizure, including the As a general rule, everything on theJ> _ are tbere in tbe way of trade, goods of strangers ; but if the goods of s ra f cannot be seized, neither can to be manufactured, dressed, or mended, g tenant'S trade be seized if the tools, implements, and perishable stock t t upon the person Sj’SSr'® »'“SvtxLplous wPh,cb occur only ,» very •T&SSSW lb.. « is a wrongful dietr.es, his only way is to gtve a replevin bond to try the case in t e c°un y ^ Qf the five days, the landlord, If there be no replevin or delay. The five days, at the request of the tenant, is entit 8must secure the attendance of two or other delay, being over, - , d write their estimate of value at the appraisers, who must appraise the goods, and wrue foot of a copy of the inventory. entitled to sell the goods in any manner After the appraisement the landlord is ent * removethlm for sale elsewhere, he pleases, for the best price he can g . defiance of any kind of objection, or sell them by auction on the premises morl (if any available). After the sale, if enough be not realise and hand any balance to the minate by notice to quit. I thes rent• P J ^ed, a quarter’s notice will suffice 5?3£^ 23ST«fSS Sofr/yeaTlt whffih'the tenancy commenced. The notice maybe either