768 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Analysis of the Potato—Next to the cereals, the potato is the most valuable plant for the pro- duction of human food. Its tubers, according to analysis conducted by Mr. Fromberg, in the laboratory of the Agriculture Chemical Association in Scotland, contain the following ingredients 75*52 per cent, of water, 15*72 starch, 0*55 dextrine, 3*3 of impure saccharine matter and 3*25 of fibre with coagulated albumen. In a dried state the tuber contains 64*2 per cent, of starch, 2*25 of dex- trine, 13*47 of impure saccharine matter, of caseine, gluten and albumen, 1 ot fatty matter and 13*31 of fibre anchcoagulated albumen. l6o5.—TO BOIL NEW POTATOES. (Fv.—Pommes de Terre.) Ingredients.—Potatoes ; to each £ gallon of water allow i heaped tablespoonful of salt; a few sprigs of mint. Mode.—Do not have the potatoes dug long before they are dressed, as they are never good when they have been out of the ground some time. Well wash them, rub or scrape off the skins, and put them and the mint in boiling water salted in the above proportion. Let them boil until tender; try them with a fork, and when done, pour the water away from them ; let them stand by the side of the fire with the lid of the saucepan partially removed, and when the potatoes are thoroughly dry, put them in a hot vegetable-dish, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; pile the potatoes over this, and serve. If the potatoes are old, boil them in their jackets; drain, peel, and serve them as above, with a piece of butter placed in the midst of them. Parsley chopped and mixed with the butter is an improvement. Time.—\ to £ hour, according to the size. Average Cost, in full season i\d. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 3 lbs. for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in,May and June, but may be had, forced, in March. Potato Starch.—This fecula has a beautiful white crystalline appearance, and is inodorous, soft to the touch, insoluble in cold, but readily soluble in boiling water. It is on this starch that the nutritive properties of the tubers depend. As an aliment, it is well adapted for invalids and persons of delicate constitutions. It may be used in the form of arrowroot, and eaten with milk or sugar. For pastry of all kinds it is more light and easier of digestion than that made with flour of wheat. In confectionery it serves to form creams and jellies, and in cookery may be used to thicken soups and sauces. It accommodates itself to the chest and stomach of children, for whom it is well adapted; and it is an aliment that cannot be too generally used, as much on account of its wholesomeness as its cheapness and the ease with which it is kept, which are equal if not superior, to all the much-vaunted exotic feculae ; as, salep, tapioca, sago and arrowroot. 1606.-TO STEAM POTATOES. (Fr.—Pommes de Terre a I’Eau.) Ingredients.—Potatoes; boiling water. Mode.—This mode of cooking potatoes is now much in vogue, par- ticularly where they are wanted on a large scale, it being so very con- venient. Pare the potatoes, throw them into cold water as they are peeled, then put them in a steamer. Place the steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the potatoes from 20 to 40 minutes, according to the size and sort. When the fork goes easily through them, they are done: then take them up, dish, and serve very quickly.