75» Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. campestris of science, and another edible British species is A. Georgii; but A. primulusis affirmed to be the most delicious mushroom. The morel is Uorchella esculenta and Tuber cibarium is the common truffle There is in New Zealand a long fungus, which grows from the head of a cater- pillar, and which forms a horn, as it were, and is called Sphtcria Robertsii. 1587.—B ROILED MUSHROOMS. (Fr.—Champignons a la Bordelaise.) Ingredients.—Mushrooin-flaps £ pint, melted butter, No. 676, 1 tea- spoonful each of pepper and salt, parsley, onions and garlic or shalot. Mode.—Clean large, firm and freshly-gathered flaps, skin them and lightly score the under side. Place them in an earthen dish; baste them with melted butter, and strew pepper and salt over them. Let them re- main in this for two hours ; then broil them on both sides for 10 minutes over a clear fire, and serve with a sauce of melted butter, with minced parsley, young onions and garlic. The moment before serving, add the juice of a lemon. Time.—2^ hours. Average Cost, 8d. to is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 3 or 4 mushrooms to each person. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in September and October. Cul- tivated mushrooms may be had at any time. 1588—TO PRESERVE MUSHROOMS. Ingredients.—To each quart of mushrooms, allow 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, the juice of 1 lemon, clarified butter. Mode.—Peel the mushrooms, put them into cold water, with a little lemon-juice; take them out and dry them very carefully in a cloth. Put the butter into a stewpan capable of holding the mushrooms; when it is melted, add the mushrooms, lemon-juice and a seasoning of pepper and salt; draw them down over a slow fire, and let them remain until their liquor is boiled away, and they have become quite dry, but be careful in not allowing them to stick to the bottom of the stewpan. When done, put them into pots, and pour over the top clarified butter. If not wanted for immediate use, they will keep good a few days without being covered over. To re-warm them, put the mushrooms into a stewpan, strain the butter from them, and thev will be ready for use. Average Cost, 8d. to is. 6d. per lb. Seasonable.—-Meadow mushrooms in September and October; Cul- tivated mushrooms may be had at any time. Localities of the Mushrooms.—Mushrooms are to be met with in pastures, woods and marshes, but are very capricious and uncertain in their places of growth, multitudes being obtained in one season where few or none were to be found in the preceding. They sometimes grow solitary, but more frequently they are gregarious, and rise in a regular circular form. Many species are em- ployed by man as food; but, generally speaking, they are difficult of digestion. Many of them are also of suspicious qualities. Little reliance can be placed either on their taste, smell, or colour, as much depends on the situation in which they vegetate; and even tbesameplant.it is affirmed, may be innocent when young, but become noxious when advanced in age.