315 Cherry Sauce. 688.—CELERY SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce C6l6ri.) (A more simple Recipe.) Ingredients.—4 heads of celery, £ pint of melted butter, made with milk, No. 679; 1 blade of pounded mace, salt and white pepper to taste. Mode.—Wash the celery, boil it in salt and water till tender, and cut it into pieces 2 inches long; make half a pint melted butter by recipe No. ^79> Put in the celery, pounded mace, and seasoning; simmer for three minutes, when the sauce will be ready to serve. Time.—25 minutes to boil the celery. Average Cost, 9d. Sufficient, this quantity, for a boiled fowl. 689.-SAUCE CHANDEAU. Ingredients.—8 yolks of eggs, 1 lemon, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, £ pint of light French wine, | pint of water. Mode. Rub the sugar on the lemon to get the rind off, then squeeze the lemon-juice into a saucepan, add the sugar, the yolks of eggs and other ingredients and put the pan on the fire. Whisk and beat the mixture continuously, till it reaches the boiling point and is of a proper consistency. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, is. id. per pint. Seasonable at any time. 690.—CHERRY SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce aux Cerises.) (For Sweet Puddings. German Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of cherries, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 oz. of butter, £ pint of water, 1 wineglassful of port, a little grated lemon-rind, 4 pounded cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, sugar to taste. Mode. Stone the cherries, and pound the kernofs in a mortar to a smooth paste; put the butter and flour into a saucepan ; stir them over the fire until of a pale brown ; then add the cherries, the pounded kernels, the wine, and the water. Simmer these gently for a quarter of an hour, or until the cherries are quite cooked, and rub the whole through a hair sieve ; add the remaining ingredients, let the sauce boil for another 5 minutes, and serve. This is a delicious sauce to serve with boiled batter pudding, and when thus used, should be sent to table poured over the pudding. Time.—20 minutes to | hour. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June, July and August.