PREFACE TO NEW EDITION, >*C Ik introducing to the public a new edition of a work of such established worth as the “ Household Management,” the editors think it expedient to state briefly the reasons that have rendered a revision of the book desirable, and to explain, in a few words, the nature of the alterations and additions that have been made during the period of nearly thirty years which has elapsed since the publication of the first edition of “ Mrs. Beeton’s Household Management.” In the art of Cookery a great advance has necessarily taken place, and radical changes and new methods have been introduced. Cookery is now a study of the many, and not of the few ; and to its aid have been brought all the contrivances that modern invention and ingenuity could deviss, to render the work of the cook more satisfactory and less laborious. New ranges, new culinary apparatus for saving labour, and new dishes are invented almost daily. Still more remarkable is the advance made in the scientific department of cookery. The improved knowledge of the chemistry and economy of cookery enables us at the present day to pre- pare food upon sounder principles and rules. To meet this advance in science, to introduce the newest modes of serving meals, to embody the improvements effected in every branch of domestic economy, in fact, to give the public all that time and labour could bring together to make Mrs. Beeton’s work as valuable to-day as it was when first published, this new edition has been compiled. The world-wide renown of “Household Management” is not at all surprising, even to those who are but slightly acquainted with its merits; but the present editors, who have carefully examined it line by line, page by page, for the purpose of revision, cannot but express their unqualified admiration of the marvellous skill, care and labour bestowed on the work by Mrs. Beeton, and the thoroughness apparent in every detail. They can easily understand her statement in the preface to the first edition, that, had she known the labour it would have cost her, she would never have undertaken the work. Even the task of its complete revision has been one of far greater magnitude than the editors could possibly have foreseen.