43i To Choose Veal hay may be added to the other food. Some farmers, desirous of rendering their calves fat for the butcher in as short a time as possible, forget both the natural weakness of the digestive powers and the contracted volume of the stomach, and allow the animals either to suck ad libitum, or give them, if brought up by the pail or by hand, a larger quantity of milk than they can digest. The idea of overloading the stomach never suggests itself to their minds. They suppose that the more food the young creature consumes, the sooner it will be fat, and they allow it no exercise whatever, for fear it should denude its very bones of their flesh. Under such circumstances, the stomach soon becomes deranged ; its functions are no longer capable of acting; the milk, subjected to the acid of the stomach, coagulates, and forms a hardened mass of curd, when the muscles become aflected with spasms, and death frequently ensues. 964. 1Veal.—Veal has the reputation of being very unwholesome and indi- gestible. All young meat, although more tender than old, appears to offer greater resistance to the digestive powers, so that they should be generally avoided by dyspeptic persons. Young meat is also universally allowed to be less sustaining under great exertion. The now disused practice of bleeding calves before killing them, until they were actually in a state of disease, had probably some effect in producing a general belief in the unwholesomeness of veal, a belief which is somewhat less universal than it once was. 965. To Choose Veal.—The whiteness of veal is considered a sign of good quality, and it was to make the flesh white that the animals were bled. On the Continent they are killed much younger than is customary in this country, and they are fed on milk and white food ; but no feeding will make every calf equally white fleshed. As young meat keeps badly at all times, it is of importance that the calf should not be bruised in bringing it to market. The fat should be plen- tiful and very white, especially that surrounding the kidney, which in all animals affords a good indication of quality. Very young veal is, as we have said, constantly brought to table on the Con- tinent, but no calf may be killed for food less than fourteen days old, whereas iu England they may be and are sold at any age or at no age to sausage makers, who grind them up with tough meat and so strike a suitable balance of tenderness over the whole. Veal can be bought all the year round. It is most plentiful in spring and summer. 966. Slaughtering.—There was no species of slaughtering practised in this country so inhuman and disgraceful as that, till very lately, employed in killing this poor animal; when, under the plea of making the flesh white, the calf was bled day by day, till, when the final hour came, the animal was unable to stand. This inhumanity is, we believe, now quite abolished, and the calf is at once killed, and with the least amount of pain ; a sharp-pointed knife is run through the neck, severing all the large veins and arteries up to the vertebrae. The skin is then taken off to the knee, which is disjointed, and to the head, which is removed ; it is then reflected backwards, and the carcase having been opened and dressed, I is kept apart by stretchers, and the thin membrane, the .caul, extended over the organs left in the carcase, as the kidneys and sweetbread ; some melted fat is then scattered suddenly over the whole interior, giving that white and frosted appearance to the meat that is thought to add to its beauty; the whole is then hung up to cool and harden.