1065 Fruit Pastes. 2331—CURRANT PASTE. Ingredients.—To each lb. of pulp lb. of loaf sugar. Mode—Take red or white currants, rub them through a sieve, after having picked them over thoroughly ; put the mashed fruit in a pan upon the fire, stirring it till it forms a paste; remove it, and to every lb. of pulp put i£ lb. of finely-pounded sugar. Mix them together, and boil for 20 minutes ; spread it out on tin plates, cut it into shapes, and dry it on a tin in a cool oven. 2332.—PLUM PASTE. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of sugar and fruit-pulp. Mode.—Any sorts of preserving plums will do; take out the stones, put them in a pan with a small quantity of water, boil to a jam, rub them with a wooden spoon through a hair sieve. Put it on the fire and reduce it to a paste, and allow to each pound of pulp x lb. of finely-sifted sugar. Boil for 20 minutes, then spread and dry it, or you may turn it into little moulds. 2333.-PEACH PASTE. Ingredients.—i lb- of sugar to each lb. of pulp. Mode.—Cut into small pieces some fine Michaelmas peaches, put them into a pan with hardly enough water to cover them; boil till they are reduced ; weigh them, and to every pound of the pulp allow £ lb. of finely- sifted sugar. Put it on the fire, boil for 20 minutes, pour it out and dry it by spreading it on tins and putting it on a stove or in a cool oven. 2334-APRICOT PASTE. Ingredients.—£ lb. of sugar to each lb. of pulp. Mode.—Get ripe apricots, and put them in a preserving-pan with a little sugar; place them on the side of the fire to reduce them to a paste, then rub them through a hair sieve, allowing half a pound of sifted sugar to every pcund of pulp. Put it on the fire and boil for 10 minutes. Spread it on tins to dry. 2335-APPLE PASTE. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of sugar and fruit. Mode.—Get good, sound, ripe apples, peel and core them, and put them in water till they are quite soft; rub them, with a wooden spoon, through a hair sieve ; weigh the pulp, put it in a preserving-pan with the same weight in sugar, boil for 20 minutes, remove it, and pour it out thin on plates or in moulds. These pastes may be cut into rings or any shapes. They can be coloured by adding a few drops of the usual colouring. Dry on a cool stove or in a cool oven.