Apple Pudding. 813 1706.—RICH SWEET APPLE PUDDING. Ingredients.—£ lb. of bread-crumbs, | lb. of suet, £ lb. of currants, 4- lb. of apples, | lb. of moist sugar, 6 eggs, 12 sweet almonds, ^saltspoon- ful of grated nutmeg, 1 wineglassful of brandy. Mode.—Chop the suet very fine ; wash the currants, dry them, and pick away the stalks and pieces of grit; pare, core and chop the apple, and grate the bread into fine crumbs, and mince the almonds. Mix all these ingredients together, adding the sugar and nutmeg; beat up the eggs, omitting the whites of three ; stir these to the pudding, and when all is well mixed, add the brandy, and put the pudding into a buttered mould; tie down with a cloth, and put it into boiling water, and let it boil for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 2s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. To Preserve Apples.—The best mode of preserving apples is to carry them at on»e to the fruit-room, where they should be put upon shelves, covered with white paper, after genlly wiping each of the fruit. The room should be dry and well aired, but should not admit the sun. The finer and larger kinds of fruit should not be allowed to touch each other, but should be kept separate. For this purpose, a number of shallow trays should be provided, supported by racks or stands above each other. In very cold frosty weather, means should be adopted for warming the room. 1707. —BAKED APPLE PUDDING. (Very Good.) Ingredients.—5 moderate-sized apples, 2 tablespoonfuls of finely- chopped suet, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, x pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter with the milk ; add the eggs, which should be well whisked, and put this batter into a well-buttered pie- dish. Wipe the apples clean, but do not pare them ; cut them in halves and take out the core; lay them in batter, rind uppermost; shake the suet on the top, over which also grate a little nutmeg ; bake in a moderate oven for an hour and cover, when served, with sifted loaf sugar. This pudding is also very good with the apples pared, sliced and mixed with the batter. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, nd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1708. —BOILED APPLE PUDDING. Ingredients.—Crust No. 1683, apples, sugar to taste, 1 small tea- spoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemcn-juice. Mode.—Make a dripping-crust by recipe No. 1683, cr a suet one by recipe No. 1684, using for a moderate-sized pudding from three-quarters to one pound of flour,with the other ingredients in proportion. Butter a basin;