1289 Baked Pike with Sour Cream. Mode.—Cleanse the fish, taking out the bones, salt and cut it into slices. Beat up an egg with grated nutmeg, and after wiping the slices dry, dip them into the egg, and then on both sides into grated bread-crumbs, and fry light brown in hot, clarified butter. Cut off the heads of the asparagus, and boil the rest until done, in salt and water. Put the boiled asparagus with half a pint of good stock, 2 oz. of butter, 2 rusks and a little mace into a stewpan ; lay the slices of fish and heads of asparagus in the mixture, and stew for a quarter of an hour. The yolk of an egg and a little lemon- juice may be added. Time.—| hour. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable in August and September. 2930.—BAKED PIKE WITH SOUR CREAM. Ingredients.—I pike, 5 oz. of butter, 1 pint of sour cream, a little stock, 2 onions, 2 bay leaves, salt and lemon. Mode.—Scale and clean the pike, cut it into slices and lay it in an earthenware dish. To 3 lbs. of fish add 5 oz. of butter, 2 sliced onions, 2 bay leaves, some salt, 1 pint of sour cream, and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven, frequently pouring the mixture over the fish, and covering it with grated rusk or bread-crumbs. Before serving up, add a small quantity of good boiling stock and lemon-juice. Remove the bay leaves and slices of onion. Time.—20 minutes Average Cost.—Seldom bought. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from September to March. 2931.—LEBER KLOSZE. (Liver Dumplings. An Entree.) Ingredients.—1 calf s liver, 20Z. of bacon, 4 eggs, 7 oz. of bread, grated nutmeg, butter, suet, onions, pepper and salt. Mode.—Skin a calf’s liver and rub it through a sieve ; put it in a basin with the bacon finely chopped, 4 whole eggs, 7 oz. of white bread cut into dice and fried in butter and suet, grated nutmeg, pepper, salt and finely-chopped onions to taste; mix well together with half a teacup of cold water, adding suffi- cient flour to bind the dumplings. Test the mixture by throwing a small piece into boiling water ; it should hold together and yet be very light. A little flour or water may have to be added- Make the dumplings the size of an apple and boil