68o Recipes for Cooking Game,. Time.—i to \ hour. Average Cost, 4s. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from May to August, but cheapest in July and August. 1402.—BROILED PARTRIDGE. (Fr.—Perdreaux Grilles.) (A Luncheon, Breakfast or Supper dish.) Ingredients.—3 partridges, salt and cayenne to taste, a small piece oi butter, brown gravy or mushroom sauce. Mode.—Pluck, draw and cut the partridges in half, and wipe the inside thoroughly with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and cayenne, broil them over a very clear fire, and dish them on a hot dish; rub a small piece of butter over each half, and send them to table with brown gravy or mushroom sauce. Time.—About 4 hour. Average Cost, 3s. to 4s. 6d. a brace. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. 1403.—PARTRIDGE PIE. (Fr.—Pate de Perdreaux.) Ingredients.—3 partridges, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley (when obtainable, a few mushrooms) ; f lb. of veal cutlet, a slice of ham, £ pint of stock, puff" paste. Mode.—Line a pie-dish with a veal cutlet ; over that place a slice of ham and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Pluck, draw and wipe the partridges ; cut off the legs at the first joint, and season them inside with pepper, salt, minced parsley, and a small piece of butter; place them in the dish, and pour over the stock ; line the edges of the dish with puff paste, cover with the same, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake for three quarters to one hour. Time.—\ to 1 hour. Average Cost, 3s. to 4s. 6d. a brace. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from the first of September to the beginning of February. Note.—Should the partridges be very large, split them in half ; they will then lie in the dish more compactly. Some cooks carve the partridges into joints before placing them in the dish. This plan is commendable on account of the ease with which the pie can be helped. When at hand, a few mushrooms should always be added. 1404.-POTTED PARTRIDGE. (Fr.—Terrine de Perdreaux.) Ingredients.—Partridges, seasoning to taste of mace, allspice, white pepper and salt; butter, coarse paste. Mode.—Pluck and draw the birds, and wipe them inside with a damp