235 Dressed Lobsters. with the pieces or lobster, the yolks and whites of the eggs, coral and beetroot placed alternately, and arrange in small separate bunches, so that the colours contrast nicely. Tinned lobsters may be used for this and many other dishes in place of fresh lobster. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from April to October; may be had all the year, but salad is scarce and expensive in winter. Note.—A few crayfish make a pretty garnishing to lobster salad. The Shell of the Lobster.—Like the others of its tribe, the lobster annually casts its shell. Previously to its throwing off the old one, it appears sick, languid and restless; but in the course of a few days it is entirely invested in its new coat of armour. Whilst it is in a defence- less state, however, it seeks some lonely place where it may lie undisturbed, and escape the horrid fate of being devoured by some of its own species who have the advantage of still being encased in their mail. 491.—LOBSTER (a la Mode Fran^aise.) (Fr.—Homard au Gratin.) Ingredients.—1 lobster, 4 tablespoonfuls of white stock, 2 tablespoon- fuls of cream, pounded mace and cayenne to taste, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut it up into small square pieces; put the stock, cream and seasoning into a stewpan, add the lobster, and let it simmer gently for 6 minutes. Serve it in the shell, which must be nicely cleaned, and have a border of puff-paste; cover it with bread-crumbs, place small pieces of butter over, and brown before the fire, or with a salamander. If tinned lobster is used, a shallow pie- dish replaces the shell. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 persons. Celerity of the Lobster —In its element, the lobster is able to run with great speed upon its legs or small claws, and, if alarmed, to spring, tail foremost, to a considerable distance, “ even," it is said, “ with the swiftness of a bird flying.” Fishermen have seen some of them pass about thirty feet with a wonderful degree of swiftness. When frightened, they will take their spring, and, like a chamoise of the Alps, plant themselves upon the very spot upon which they designed to hold themselves. 492.—TO DRESS LOBSTERS. When the lobster is boiled, rub it over with a little salad-oil, which wipe off again ; separate the body from the tail, break off the great claws, and crack them at the joints, without injuring the meat; split the tail in halves, and arrange all neatly in a dish, with the body upright in the middle, and garnish with parsley. Ancient Mode of Cooking the Lobster.—When this fish was to be served for the table among the ancients, it was opened lengthwise and filled with a gravy composed of coriander and pepper. It was then put on the gridiron and slowly cooked, whilst it was being basted with the same kind of gravy with which the flesh had become impregnated,