I5gb The Doctor. 3586. Particular Poisons:— Aconite, Monkshood or Blue Rocket.—Treatment.—Give a tablespoonful of mustard in water or twenty grains of sulphate of zinc in water : then a dose of castor oil. Hot bottles should be applied to the feet, and a teaspoonful of spirit of sal-volatile in water or strong coffee be given. Alkalies, such as potash, soda, ammonia, met with as pearl ashes, soap lees, common washing soda and ammonia in vapour, solution and solid form. Treat- ment.—Give drinks containing vinegar, or lemon juice or olive oil may be given. Arsenic.—Treatment.—Give large quantities of sugar and water or linseed tea. Barytes.—Treatment.—Give two teaspoonfuls of Epsom or Glauber’s salts every two hours till the bowels act. Belladonna.—Treatment.—Give twenty grains of sulphate of zinc or a table- spoonful of mustard in water ; then drinks of tepid water. Afterwards give strong coffee. Carbolic Acid.—Treatment.—Use the stomach syphon if at hand, otherwise give large quantities of olive oil or melted butter. Copper.—Treatment.—Give white of egg, afterwards, enemata to act upon the bowels. Corrosive Sublimate.—Treatment.—Give white of egg beaten up with water. Milk or sugar and water may be given if eggs are not at hand. Foxglove.—Treatment.—Give an emetic of mustard and water or twenty grains of sulphate of zinc in water, then give a dose of castor oil and a cup of strong tea. Fungi.—Treatment.—Give an emetic of mustard and water, afterwards a dose of castor oil. Hemlock.—Treatment.—Give a tablespoonful of mustard and water or twenty grains of sulphate of zinc ; afterwards a dose of castor oil and strong tea. Henbane, Thorn Apple and Tobacco.-—Treatment.—The same as for belladonna. Hydrochloric Acid.—Treatment.—The. same as for sulphuric acid poisoning. Laburnum.—Treatment.—Give a tablespoonful of mustard in water ; then ten or fifteen drops of spirit of sal-volatile in a little water. Laudanum.—Treatment.—Give twenty grains of sulphate of zinc or a table- spoonful of mustard in water, then drinks of tepid water. Afterwards give strong coffee and keep the patient constantly in motion till the drowsy feeling wears off. Lead.—Treatment.—Give an emetic in the first place ; then two teaspoonfuls of Epsom or Glauber’s salts every two hours till the bowels act. When this has been accomplished continue the salts in smaller doses, after which large doses of iodide of potassium may be given. Nitric Acid^or Aquafortis.—Treatment.—Give bicarbonate or carbonate of soda or potash ; in other respects the treatment is the same as for poisoning by sul- phuric acid. Oxalic Acid or Acid of Sugar.—Treatment.—Give magnesia or chalk mixed with water. Phosphorus.-—Treatment.—Give twenty grains of sulphate of zinc in water; then give lime water, barley-water, linseed tea or white of egg and water. Prussic Acid.—Treatment.—Dash cold water from a height upon the head: apply smelling salts and employ artificial respiration.