Roasting. 37 x MEAT SCREEN. be dnnyn back, so that there may be no danger of the coal, cinders or ashes falling down into it. . Undeir each particular recipe there is stated the time required for roasting each joint, but, as a general rule, it may be here given, that for every pound of meat, in ordmary-sized joints, a quarter of an hour may be allowed, and a quarter of an hour over; or twenty minutes to each pound, and twenty minutes over for white meat or very solid joints. 838. White Meats, and the Meat Of Young Animals, require to be very well roasted, both to be pleasant to the palate and easy of digestion. Thus veal, pork and lamb, should be thoroughly done to the centre. 839. Mutton and Beef, on the other' hand, do not, generally speaking, require to be so thoroughly done, and they should be dressed to the point, that, in carving them, the gravy should just run, but not too freely Of course, in this, as in most other dishes, the tastes of individuals vary ; and there are many who cannot partake, with satisfaction, of any joint unless it is what others would call overdressed. 840. Choosing Meat.— Every housekeeper ought to know how to choose toClS* ^ butcher’s shoP> and how to detect a bad piece sent The first necessity is that the meat should be wholesome. It may be unwhole- some from a variety of causes. J 84a Pl^e^se—The animal may have died in a state of disease. There is W def‘ °f contrary evidence as to the result of eating diseased meat. No 1 j \n tbe tlrae of the cattle plague, the flesh of many animals that died was ®? d^°d efa‘en’ but no specific disease among men was traced thereto. Again, sheep that have died of apoplexy, “ staggers," as shepherds call it, is constantly eaten Braxy mutton is the perquisite of the Scotch shepherds, who remove hut ‘I?1 organs if they are greatly congested, and salt some, or all of the flesh, but who never think of throwing the meat away. J»tbe London markets the inspectors condemn about two tons weekly, accord- V,® 1 iPr Letheby, or about one pound out of every seven hundred and fifty ;?r la ?: bu much escapes notice in the four hundred tons sold daily Most of the bad meat comes from our country districts, where it is the custom ^°™t.nd *° London whatever is unfit for home consumption tJn„™rst meat is.scdd ia the poorest districts after dark,'so that one is tempted to long for a renewal of the old enactment: "Butchers shall close their shops before candle-light, and shall not sell flesh meat by light of candle.’’ The Tew^ k?°wu,°n y 6at meat that haS been duIy inspected and certified by the officer appomted for the purpose . what he discards is habitually sold to and eaten by Chnstmns. We may consider many Jewish observances unnecessary and of the JoUPHU S i mustallo'Y that their remarkable vitality is strong proof cJnsidegrab1eepart. Samtary WS’ °f WhiCh th°SS relating to food form a fiftw ^amge6Vin rep°rt to the Priyy Council, expresses his belief that one- the ™eat ®°ld ln this country is derived from animals killed in a state of disease. If, on the one hand, it is difficult to point to any effect that invariably