48 Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. 85. Advantages of Kitchen Ranges.—A word or two as to the advantages which the kitchen range just described possesses will not be out of place, and it may be said that though all its features are not presented, perhaps, by other ranges, yet that the benefits which are to be derived from its use, are to be obtained more or less from most of the various kitchen ranges, kitcheners, and gas ranges now in use. On this most important kitchen fixture, be it of what kind it may, depends much of the success or failure of the cook’s performances. To those who desire to have a nicely and cheaply cooked dinner every day, the close ranges, kitcheners and gas ranges may be especially recommended. By making use of one of these much trouble and labour are saved. Their advantages, indeed are so great that an inexperienced cook would scarcely fail to serve up a passable dinner with one of these at her disposal; while with an old fashioned open range, she would, in all probability, have acquitted herself ir> a wretched manner. The advantages that these ranges possess over the open stoves may be summed up as below, and there is not the least doubt but that our readers will be ready to acknowledge their superiority, particularly for those persons who are not too well acquainted with the culinary art. First Advantage.—In addition to the oven for baking bread, pastry, &c., there is, on the other side of the fire-basket, or grate, of the Patent Kitchener, another oven ventilated on improved principles, for roasting joints. The boiler is entirely at the back of the range. Second Advantage.—There is no fear of having any dish smoked sent to table. The range being made with a hot-plate all along the top, and the fire not being ex- posed, the possibility of having any concoction spoiled by its being smoked is quite precluded. On the other hand, when open stoves are in use, and are managed by rather unskilful hands, it is not too much to say that a smoked dish is almost as frequently the rule as the exception. Third Advantage.—Many saucepans and vessels may be kept boiling at one time, and at the proper point. Moreover, these vessels are neither soiled nor injured. On an open stove, however, the proper degree of ebullition can scarcely be sus- tained where there are many saucepans to attend to. Frequently the liquid is either boiling or bubbling at a galloping rate, or is barely warm. Now the gentle simmering can be nicely kept up on any part of the Patent Kitchener, when supplied with fuel for cooking a dinner. On a 4-foot range 6 saucepans can be easily placed. Fourth Advantage.—Saucepans, boiling-pots, frying-pans, &c., last double the time when used on a hot-plate; and may be kept as clean outside as inside, there being no accumulation of soot and black. This is an immense saving of labour to the cook and of money to the mistress. Fifth Advantage.—After the cooking is done, the fire may be kept up with any cinders or small coal which could not possibly be burnt in any other range. By taking the measures already described for producing slow combustion, a fire once made up will last for hours. Sixth Advantage.—Much breaking of crockery is avoided in warming plates and dishes that are to be used at dinner. There is a rack -fixed above the range for this purpose, and this being quite out of the way, does not interfere with the cook when she is attending to the dinner. Seventh Advantage.—The hot-plate is well calculated for an ironing-stove when not in use for cooking purposes. We need scarcely say the process is delightfully clean ; the irons, after being heated, merely requiring a rub with a duster. Many of our readers know what it is to iron with irons that have been heated at an open fire—what rubbing must be resorted toon sand-paper, in sand, &c., &c., to make the irons at all fit for use. Eighth Advantage.—On the right side of the range below the baking oven is