650 Recipes for Cooking Poultry. Mode.—Cut the fowls up into neat pieces, the same as for a fricassee; put the trimmings into a stewpan with the shalots, mace, herbs, ham, onion and stock (water may be substituted for this). Boil it slowly for one hour, strain the liquor, and put a small piece of butter into a stewpan; when melted, dredge in sufficient flour to dry up the butter, and stir it over the fire. Put in the strained liquor, boil for a few minutes, and strain it again over the pieces of fowl. Squeeze in the lemon-juice, add the sugar and a seasoning of pepper and salt, make it hot, but do not allow it to boil; lay the fowl neatly on the dish, and garnish with croutons. Time.—Altogether, hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, 10 d. Seasonable at any time. The Best Fowls to Fatten, &o.—The chicks most likely to fatten well are those first hatched in the brood, and those with the shortest legs. Long-legged fowls, as a rule, are by far the most difficult to fatten. The most delicate sort are those which are put up to fatten as soon as the hen forsakes them ; for, as says an old writer, “ then they will be in fine condition, and full of flesh, which flesh is afterwards expended in the exercise of foraging for food, and in the increase of stature ; and it may be a work of some weeks to recover it, especially with young cocks." But whether you take them in hand as chicks, or not till they are older, the three prime rules to be observed are—sound and various food, warmth and cleanliness. There is nothing that a fatting fowl grows so fastidious about as his water. If water any way foul be offered him, he will not drink it, but sulk with his food, and pine, and you all the while wondering the reason why. Keep them separate, allowing to each bird as much space as you can spare. Spread the ground with sharp sandy gravel; take care that they are not disturbed. In addition to their regular diet of bruised corn, make them a cake of ground oats or beans, brown sugar, milk and mutton suet. Let the cake lie till it is stale, then crumble it, and give each bird a gill measureful morning and evening. No entire grain should be given to fowls during the time they are fattening; indeed, the secret of success lies in supplying them with the most nutritions food without stint, and in such a form that their digestive mills shall find no difficulty in grinding it. 1353 — fowl and rice croquettes. (Fr.—Croquettes de Volaille.) Ingredients.—J lb. of rice, 1 quart of stock or broth, 3 oz. of butter, minced fowl, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode.—Put the rice into the above proportion of cold stock or broth, and let it boil very gently for half an hour; then add the butter, and simmer till it is quite dry and soft. When cold, make it into balls, hollow out the inside, and fill with minced fowl made by recipe No. 1351. The mince should be rather thick. Cover over with rice, dip the balls into egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Dish them, and garnish with fried parsley. Oysters, white sauce, or a little cream, may be stirred into the rice before it cools. Time.—^ hour to boil the rice, 10 minutes to fry the croquettes. Average Cost, exclusive of the fowl, 6d. Seasonable at any time. Chip.—If the birds are allowed to paddle about on wet soil, or to be much out in the rain, they will get “ chip.” Young chicks are especially liable to this complaint. They will sit shivering in out-of-the-way corners, perpetually uttering a dolorous “chip, chip; ” seemingly frozen with cold, though, on handline them, they are found to be in hieh fever. A wholesale breeder would