Onion Sauce„ 539 Mode. Peel the onions and put them into water to which a little salt has been added, to preserve their whiteness, and let them remain for a quarter of an hour. Then put them in a stewpan, cover them with water, and let them boil until tender, and, if the onions should be very strong, change the water after they have been boiling for a quarter of an hour. Drain them thoroughly, chop them, and rub them through a tammy or sieve. Make i pint of melted butter, by recipe No. 679, and when that boils put in the onions, with a seasoning of salt; stir it till it simmers, when it will be ready to serve. If these directions are carefully attended to, this onion sauce will be delicious. Time.—f to 1 hour to boil the onions. Average Cost, 9d. per pint. Sufficient to serve with a roast shoulder of mutton or boiled rabbit. Seasonable from August to March. n^Kte‘~T0 th'l SlUCe very mild and delicate. use Spanish onions, which can be procured from the beginning of September to Christmas. Two or three tablespoonfuls of cream, added just before serving, will be found to improve its very m“cb- SmaI1 omons, when very young, may be cooked whole, and served in melted butter. A sieve or tammy should be kept expressly for =S-^u°ldr°ne answers the purpose-as it is liable to retain the flavour and tions’ Wh‘ch’ °f course> would be excessively disagreeable in delicate prepara- 749- BROWN ONION SAUCE. (Fv.—Sauce Bretonne.) Ingredients.—6 large onions, rather more than } pint of good gravy, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Slice and fry the onions of a pale brown in a stewpan, with the above quantity of butter, keeping them well stirred, that they do not get black. When a nice colour, pour over the gravy, and let them simmer gently until tender. Now skim off every particle of fat, add the seasoning and rub the whole through a tammy or sieve; put it back in the saucepan to warm, and when it boils serve. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Seasonable from August to March. rZ°'^Z a *" ' Ub,'SP°°t‘M °f “*■ likely that this plant was first introduced into EnHand fmm sweetness It is therefore most a.ss?'”1 <» ■ i % 750.-BROWN ONION SAUCE (without Stock. (Fr—Sauce Bretonne.) ,.I^grKedients--2 large onions, 1 oz. of flour, 1 oz. of butter, i pint of stock, No. 272 ; salt, pepper, £ teaspoonful of browning. P