CHAPTER X. GRAVIES, FORCEMEATS AND SAUCES. 611.—Gravy Making.—It has been said that “ a good cook makes a good gravy,” but whereas there are many ordinary plain cooks (particularly in the north of England) who excel in this branch of the art of cooking, there are a great many professed ones, who, to a certain extent, neglect it; while those of them who habitually send up to table good gravy are, in their mode of making it, very extravagant. Gravy and soup making are (or ought to be) one of the economies of the kitchen, for in their composition a great deal can be used that would otherwise have been wasted. Under the head of stocks, will be found advice as to what can be turned to account, and No. 273 stock is a useful one for gravies ; but for the latter we usually require less flavouring, particularly of vegetables, and we chiefly recommend the use of stock to add to fresh gravy, when there is an insufficient supply from the meat. Gravina is a great help towards a good gravy. Made gravies we give recipes for, but the one most rarely seen in plenty is that from the meat, such as the Yorkshire people, even in a very humble rank of life, know how to make, without all the condiments within reach of the regular cook. The main thing in roasting meat is the basting, and if this is well done, and the fat carefully removed, it is hard if good gravy cannot be obtained from such joints, as legs of mutton and rounds or sirloins of beef; but one caution we would give, and that is, that it is of the utmost importance that all gravies should be sent to table very hot, and after they are poured into tureens, they should be put into the oven and left to the last to be served. 612.—GENERAL STOCK FOR GRAVIES. Either of the stocks, Nos. 273 or 274, will be found to answer very well for the basis of many gravies, unless these are wanted very rich indeed. By the addition of various store sauces, thickening and flavour- ing, the stocks here referred to may be converted into very good gravies.