iio6 Recipes for Making Bread, Biscuits and Cakes. 2441.—COCOA-NUT BISCUITS OR CAKES. Ingredients.—10 oz. of sifted sugar, 3 eggs, 6 oz. of grated cocoa-nut. Mode.—Whisk the eggs until they are very light; add the sugar gradually; then stir in the cocoa-nut. Roll a tablespoonful of the paste at a time in your hand; in the form of a pyramid ; place the pyramids on paper, put the paper oa tins, and bake the biscuits in rather a cool oven until they are just coloured a light brown. Dried and grated cocoa-nut is now sold at a moderate price, and its use saves much trouble and labour. Time.—About £ hour. Seasonable at any time. 2442.—COCOA-NUT BISCUITS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of grated nut, 2 lbs. 01 sugar, 6 eggs, 2 teacupfuls of flour. Mode.—Rasp a good fresh cocoa-nut on a grater, letting none of the rind fall. Spread the cocoa-nut thus grated on a dish, and let it stand in some cool dry place 2 days to dry gradually. Add to it double its weight of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, the whites of 6 eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and a teacupful of flour to every pound of sugar. Drop the mixture on a baking-tin a spoonful at a time, like rock cakes, or into proper drop- cake tins. Bake in a very gentle oven for about 20 minutes; move them out of the tins while warm, and, when cold, store them in a tin canister. 2443.-CRISP BISCUITS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, the yolk of i egg, milk. Mode.—Mix the flour and the yolk of the egg wifh sufficient milk to make the whole into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead it until it is perfectly smooth. Roll the paste out very thin; with a round cutter shape it into small biscuits, and bake them a nice brown in a slow oven from 12 to 18 minutes. Time.—12 to 18 minutes. Average Cost, qd. Seasonable at any time. 2444.—DESSERT BISCUITS. Which may be flavoured with Ground Ginger, Cinnamon, &c.) Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, £ lb. of butter, | lb. of sifted sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Put the butter into a basin ; warm it, but do not allow it to oil; then with the hand beat it to a cream. Add the flour by degrees, then