1341 How to Wait at Table. a triangle, with the sherry glass (the first used) at the top, just reaching to the point of the knife, but at a convenient distance from it. 3054. The sideboard cloth requires to be laid as carefully as the dinner- table itself, and everything that can be put there ready for placing on the table afterwards, such as finger glasses, wine and other glasses, dessert plates, decanters, and knives, forks, and spoons of every kind should be there ready and carefully arranged. The decanters, salvers, glasses, &c., should be put well at the back of the sideboard, and the plates, knives, forks, &c., neatly laid in front. When the dinner is not carved on the table, one specially intended for the carver should be prepared, with carving knives and forks (the former carefully sharpened beforehand) of various kinds, soup ladle, fish carvers, &c., in the order of serving the dinner, that nothing may delay him when he commences his duties. If the dessert is not upon the table during dinner, room should be found for it on a side table, or at least for all that can be put there. Strong-smelling fruits, or very delicately-flavoured ones, being better kept out of the room till required. Champagne, hock, or other sparkling wines that are only uncorked when wanted, may find a place under the sideboard or side tables where the ice pails are to be found ; decanted wines are put on the sideboard. 3055. The order of the courses should be as follows, when placed upon the table —The First Course usually soup, then fish, then come the entrees (made dishes). The next Course joints, poultry, &c., and after these, game and savoury dishes, then sweets, then cheese, cooked or uncooked, or such small savouries as anchovy toast. When there are roast meats they would be opposite colours, thus, not two whites nor two browns. Place joints upon large dishes, as they form a considerable portion of the dinner. Entrees require care in handling, there is nearly always gravy with them, and this must not be upset upon the cloth. The Third Course used to be entrees, joints, poultry, &c., and removes. Next in order came the creams, pastry, and sweets ; this was The Fourth Course, and the fifth consisted of cheese, butter, celery, salads, &c. The last arrange- ment of dishes—which cannot be called a course, seeing that the dinner is virtually over—the dessert, this comprising tastefully-arranged fruits that are most in season, together with appropriate dried fruits that are seasonable all the year round. Now the soup is very often preceded by such little dishes as caviare, croutons, oysters, and other little appetisans, while others are introduced during the meal, and every separate dish forms a separate course. CHEESE-DISH FOR DINNER. HOW TO WAIT AT TABLE. 3056. The servants who wait at table are usually, in large estab- lishments, a butler and several footmen ; in smaller ones, one tran-servant and a parlourmaid, and in many cases parlourmaid and housemaid only. If hired waiters are employed, they must be very neatly attired in a black suit, a white necktie, and white gloves (fearfully resembling that of one