Stewed Veal Tendons, 467 from the bone, and cut them neatly out, so as not to spoil the joint foi roasting or stewing. Put them into a stewpan, with sufficient stock No. 278 to cover them ; add the herbs, mace, cloves, carrots, onions, and lemon, and simmer these for nearly, or quite, four hours. They should be stewed until a fork will enter the meat easily. Take them up, drain them, strain the gravy, boil it down to a glaze, with which glaze the meat. Dish the tendrons in a circle, with croutons fried of a nice colour placed between each; and put mushroom sauce, or a puree of green peas or tomatoes, in the middle. Time.—4 hours. Average Cost.— Usually bought with breast of veal, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for one entree. Seasonable, with peas, from June to August. Cow-pox, or Variola.—It is to Dr. Jenner, of Berkeley, Gloucestershire, who died in 1823, that we owe the practice of vaccination, as a preservative from the attack of that destruc- tive scourge of the human race, the small-pox. The experiments of this philosophic man were begun in 1797, and published the next year. He had observed that cows were subject to a certain infectious eruption of the teats, and that those persons who became affected by it, while milking the cattle, escaped the small-pox raging around them. This fact, known to farmers from time immemorial, led him to a course of experiments, the result of which all are acquainted with. The Cattle Plague.—The disease called by this name first appeared in this country in 1865, at Lambeth, and there is little doubt that it was introduced by a cargo of Russian cattle which were imported from Revel a short time before the plague was manifested. The rinderpest, or cattle plague, has its o,igin on the vast steppes of Russia. Eight millions of cattle are annually bred and pastured on the luxurious herbage of these steppes. Cattle fairs are very numerous, and the number of cattle then brought together may be inferred from the fact that Balta, in Podolia, has at least 500,000 head of cattle at its fairs in a single season. From these centres of traffic great herds of cattle are driven to feed the population of Russia proper, and are exported into various countries. Every six or seven years the plague breaks out, and unless “ stamped out ” at once by the slaughter of all suspected beasts, spreads with frightful rapidity. The official description of the symptoms, drawn up by Professor Simonds, and used in the Orders of Council, is as follows:—"The cattle show great depression of the vital powers, frequent shivering, staggering gait, cold extremities, quick and short breathing, drooping head, reddened eyes, with a discharge from them, and also from the nostrils, of a mucous nature, raw-looking places on the inner side of the lips and roof of the mouth, diarrhoea or dysenteric purging." Many remedies for the rinderpest have been suggested and tried, but the pole-axe appears to be the only effectual method of stamping out this frightful murrain among cattle. The history of the plague in 1865 is but a close repetition of its history in 1745, when it dwelt among us for twelve years. Then, as during the last attack, the people com- plained at the Government interference with cattle traffic, but most bitterly did they regret that they did not aid that Government to extirpate the plague when its proportions rendered re- pressive measures possible. The aggregate mortality was 88 per cent, in January, 18661 Thanks to the vigorous measures of the Government, the plague has again disappeared from our island, and the meat markets are regaining their wonted aspects and prices. 1032.—STEWED VEAL TENDONS. (Fy.—Tendrons de Veau, Frits a PEspagnole, etc.) Ingredients.—The gristles from 2 breasts of veal, stock No. 278, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 1 blade of pounded mace, 4 cloves, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a strip of lemon-peel, egg and bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuis of chopped mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, the yolk of 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream.