264 Recipes for Cooking Fish. 564.-DRIED SPRATS. Dried sprats should be put into a basin, and boiling water poured over them ; they may then be skinned and served, and this will be found a much better way than boiling them. They can also be broiled. The Sprat.—This migratory fish is rarely found longer than four or five inches, and visits the shores of Britain after the herring and other kinds of fish have taken their departure from them. On the coasts of Suffolk, Essex and Kent, they are very abun- dant, and from 400 to 500 boats are employed in catching them during the winter season. Besides plentifully supply- ing the London market, they are frequently sold at sixpence a bushel to farmers for manuring purposes. They enter the Thames about the beginning of November, and leave it in March. At Yarmouth and Gravesend they are cured like red herrings. 565.-TO PRESERVE SPRATS. Ingredients.—£ a peck of sprats, i lb. of salt, 2 oz. of baysalt, 2 oz. of saltpetre, 1 oz. of sal-prunella, a little cochineal. Mode.—Pound all except the sprats in a mortar, then put the sprats in a pan in layers with the seasoning, press them tightly down and cover close. They will be ready for use in 5 or 6 months. To make sprat paste, very like anchovy paste, fry them in butter, having first removed the heads, tails and bones beat them in a mortar, put up in small pots with seasoning and clarified butter poured over. Time.—5 or 6 months. Average Cost, id. per lb. Seasonable November to March. THE SPRAT. 566.—BAKED STURGEON. (Fr.—Esturgeon Roti au Vin Blanc.) Ingredients.— 1 small sturgeon, salt and pepper to taste, 1 small bunch of herbs, the juice of £ lemon, £ lb. of butter, 1 pint of white wine. Mode.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly, skin it, and split it along the belly without separating it; have ready a large baking-dish, in which lay the fish, sprinkle over the seasoning and herbs very finely minced, and moisten it with the lemon-juice and wine. Place the butter in small pieces over the whole of the fish, put it in the oven, and baste frequently; brown it nicely, and serve with its own gravy. Time.—Nearly 1 hour. Average Cost, 6d. to is. per lb. Seasonable from April to September. Tbe Sturgeon.—This fish commences the sixth of the Linnaean order, and all the species are large, seldom measuring, when full grown, less than three or four feet in length* Its flesh is