Mincemeat. 855 Mode.—Make the milk boiling, pour it hot on to the bread-crumbs, and let these remain covered for about ha;f an hour; shred the marrow, beat up the eggs, and mix these with the bread-crumbs; add the remaining ingredients, beat the mixture well, and either put it into a buttered mould and boil it for 2^ hours, or put it into a pie-dish lined with puff-paste, and bake for rather more than three-quarters of an hour ; before sending it to table, sift a little pounded sugar over, after being turned out of the mould or basin. Time.—2^ hours to boil; \ hour to bake. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1817.—MILITARY PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—£ lb. of suet, lb. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of moist sugar, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix it with the bread-crumbs and sugar, and mince the lemon-rind and strain the juice; stir these into the other ingredients, mix well, and put the mixture into small buttered cups, and bake for rather more than half an hour; turn them out on the dish, and serve with lemon sauce. The above ingredients may be made into small balls, and boiled for about half an hour; they should then be served with the same sauce as when baked. Time.—Rather more than £ hour. Average Cost, gd. Sufficient to fill 6 or 7 moderate-sized cups. Seasonable at any time. 1818.—MINCEMEAT. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of raisins, 3 lbs. of currants, lb. of lean beef, 3 lbs. of beef suet, 2 lbs. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of citron, 2 oz. of candied lemon-peel, 2 oz. of candied orange-peel, 1 small nutmeg, 2 lbs. of apples, the rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, £ pint of brandy. Mode.—Stone and cut the raisins once or twice across, but do not chop them; wash dry and pick the currants free from stalks and grit, and mince the beef and suet, taking care that the latter is chopped very fine ; slice the citron and candied peel, grate the nutmeg, and pare, core, and mince the apples ; mince the lemon-peel, strain the juice, and when all the ingredients are thus prepared, mix them well together, adding the brandy when the other things are well blended; press the whole into a jar, carefully exclude the air, and the mincemeat will be ready for use in a fortnight. Average Cost, for this quantity, 8s. Seasonable.—Make this about the beginning of December.