552 Recipes for Cooking Pork. and keep it in a cool place. The Head or inside fat of the pig before it is melted makes exceedingly light crust, and is particularly wholesome. It may be preserved a length of time by salting it well, and occasionally changing the brine. When wanted for use, wash and wipe it, and it will answer for making into paste as well as fresh lard. Average Cost, iod. per lb. 1207.-BOILED LEG OF PORK. {Fr.—Gigot de Pore.) Ingredients.—Leg of pork; salt. Mode.—For boiling, choose a small, compact, well-filled leg, and rub it well with salt; let it remain in pickle for a week or ten days turning and rubbing it every day. Before dressing it put it into cold water for an hour, which improves the colour. If the pork is purchased ready salted, ascertain how long the meat has been in pickle, and soak it accord- ingly. Put it into a boiling-pot, with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it gradually come to a boil, and remove the scum as it rises. Simmer it very gently until tender, and do not allow it to boil fast, or the knuckle will fall to pieces before the middle of the leg is done. Carrots, turnips, or par- snips may be boiled with the pork, some of which should be laid round the dish as a garnish; and a well-made pease-pudding is an indispensable accompaniment. Time.—A leg of pork weighing 8 lbs., 3 hours after the water boils, and to be simmered very gently. Average Cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from October to March. Note.—The liquor in which a leg of pork has been boiled makes excellent pea- soup. Antiquity of the Hog.—The hog has survived changes which have swept multitudes of Eachydermatous animals from the surface of our earth. It still presents the same characteristics, oth physical and moral, which the earliest writers, whether sacred or profane, have faithfully delineated. Although the domestic has been more or less modified by long culture, yet the wild species remains unaltered, insomuch that the fossil relics may be identified with the bones of the existing descendants. 1208.-ROAST GRISKIN OF PORK. {Fr.—Echine de Pore.) Ingredients.—Pork ; a little powdered sage. Mode.—As this joint frequently comes to table hard and dry, particular care should be taken that it is well basted. Put it down to a bright fire, and flour it. About 10 minutes before taking it up, sprinkle over some powdered sage ; make a little gravy in the dripping-pan, strain it over the meat, and serve with a tureen of apple sauce. This joint will be done in