Washing of Glass. 1503 with fine emery-powder and oil mixed in the same manner. A small portion of salammoniac, beat into a fine powder and moiitend with soft Wa‘er’rfbed over brass ornaments, and heated over a charcoal fire, and nibbed dry with bran or whitening, will give to brasswork the brilliancy ot gold. In trimming moderator lamps, let the wick be cut evenly all round; as, if left higher in one place than it is in another, it will cause itto smoke and burn badly. The lamp should then be filled with oil from a teeder and afterwards well wiped with a cloth or rag kept for the purpose. it can be avoided, never wash the chimnevs of a lamp, as it causes them to crack when they become hot. Small sticks, covered with wash-leather pads, are the best things to use for cleaning the glasses inside and a clean duster for polishing the outside. The globe of a moderator lamp should be occasionally washed in warm soap-and-water, then well rinsed in cold water and either wiped dry or left to drain. Where candle-lamps are used, take out the springs occasionally and free them well from the grease that adheres to them. 333I-—WASHING OF GLASS. After each meal, the footman’s place is in his pantry: here perfect order should prevail—a place for everything and everything in its place. A sink, with hot and cold water laid on, is very desirable—cold absolutely necessary. Wooden bowls or tubs of sufficient capacity are required, one for hot and another for cold water. Have the bowl three parts full of clean hot water; in this wash all plate and plated articles which are greasy, wiping them before cleaning with the brush. Glass is a beautiful and most fragile article: hence it requires great care in washing. A perfectly clean wooden bowl is best for this operation, one for moderately hot and another for cold water. Wash the glasses well in the first and rinse them in the second, and turn them down on a linen cloth folded two or three times, to drain for a few minutes. When sufficiently drained, wipe them with a cloth and polish with a finer one, doing so tenderly and carefully. Accidents will happen : but nothing discredits a servant in the drawing-room more than continual reports of breakages, which, of course, must reach that region. Decanters and water-jugs require still more tender treatment in cleaning inasmuch as they are more costly to replace. Fill them about two-thirds with hot but not boiling water, and put in a few pieces of well-soaped brown paper : leave them thus for two or three hours; then shake the water up and down in the decanters; empty this out, rinse them well with clean cold water, and put them in a rack to drain. When dry, polish them outside and inside, as far as possible, with a fine cloth. To remove the