Minced Veal. carrots, a faggot of sweet herbs, thickening of butter and flour, i table- spoonful of lemon-juice, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. Mode.—Take about 1 lb. of veal, and should there be any bones dredge them with flour, and put them into a stewpan with the brown out- side, and a few meat trimmings; add rather more than a pint of water, the onion cut in slices, lemon-peel, seasoning, mace, carrots, and herbs; simmer these well for rather more than 1 hour, and strain the liquor. Rub a little flour into some butter; add this to the gravy, set it on the fire, and when it boils, skim well. Mince the veal finely by cutting, and not chopping it; put in the gravy ; let it get warmed through gradually ; add the lemon-juice and cream, and when it is on the point of boiling, serve. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread and slices of bacon rolled and toasted. Forcemeat balls may also be added. If more lemon- peel is liked than is stated above, put a little very finely minced to the veal, after it is warmed in the gravy. Time.—I hour to make the gravy. Average Cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from March to October. The Calf a Symbol of Divine Power.—A singular symbolical ceremony existed among the Hebrews, in which the calf performed a most important part. The calf being a type or symbol of Divine power, or what was called the Elohim—the Almighty intelligence that brought them out of Egypt - was looked upon much in the same light by the Jews as the cross subsequently was by the Christians, a mystical emblem of the Divine passion and goodness. Consequently, an oath taken on either the calf or the cross was considered equally solemn and sacred by Jew or Nazar ene, and the breaking of it a soul-staining perjury on themselves, and an insult and profana- tion directly offered to the Almighty. To render the oath more impressive and solemn, it was customary to slaughter a dedicated calf in the temple, when, the priests having divided the car- case into a certain number of parts, and, with intervening spaces, arranged the several limbs on the marble pavement, the one, or all the party, if there were many individuals, to be bound by the oath, repeating the words of the compact, threading their way in and out through the different spaces, till they had taken the circuit of each portion of the divided calf, when the ceremony was concluded. To avert the anger of the Lord, when Jerusalem was threatened by Nebuchadnezzar and his Babylonian host, the Jews had made a solemn vow to God, ratified by the ceremony of the calf, if He released them from their dreaded foe, to cancel the servitude of their Hebrew brethren. Afler investing the city for some time, and reducing the inhabitants to dreadful suffer- ing and privation, the Babylonians, hearing that Pharaoh, whom the Jews had solicited for aid, was rapidly ai proaching with a powerful army, hastily raised the siege, and removing to a distance, took up a position where they could intercept the Egyptians, and still cover the city. No sooner did the Jews behold the retreat of the enemy, than they believed all danger was past, and, with their usual turpitude,they repudiated their oath, and refused to liberate their oppressed countrymen. For this violation of their covenant with the Lord, they were given over to all the horrors of the sword, pestilence, and famine (Jeremiah, xxxiv. 15-17). 1002.— MINCED VEAL AND MACARONI. (Fr.—Veau au Macaroni.) (A pretty Side or Corner Dish.) Ingredients.—f lb. of minced cold roast veal, 3 oz. of ham, 1 table- spoonful of gravy, pepper and salt to taste, £ teaspoonful of grated nut- meg, £ lb. of bread-crumbs, £ lb. of macaroni, 1 or 2 eggs to bind, a small piece of butter.