111 ii i i^lb iwiii Bauii ii wmummii« A FAMILY SUPPER. CHAPTER LXVI. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON SUPPERS, WITH MENUS FOR BALL, GUEST AND FAMILY SUPPERS. 3207. Supper as a meal is one ol the most abused. People with weak digestion cannot eat suppers, those who have late dinners or teas can neither need nor enjoy them ; so as indigestion is not an uncommon complaint, and late dinners are the general rule, supper is going out of fashion, if we may not say it has n t actually become a thing of the past. That very late dinners are more healtnful thai suppers it is not our place to determine, but the latter being only a modified edition of the former, we can see no reason why they should be (if late dinners are not) unwholesome, that is, if they be partaken of sufficiently early. A meal eaten just before bed-time is not likely to do one any good, for the reason that we have no time to digest it before our night’s rest; but a meal, call it what you will, dinner or supper, taken some hours before bed-time is one of the most enjoyable meals of the day, being one that comes after the daily work is over. 3208. Ball Suppers.—A ball supper is, of necessity, a late one, but, being followed by several hours of active exercise, on the old principle of “ after supper wa’k a mile," it need not be injurious when the proverbial mile is danced instead of walked. As a rule, ball suppers—with the exception of the soup, which should be white or clear—are cold ones, consisting of mayonnaises, game, poultry, pies, pasties, galantines, salads, creams, jellies and other sweets, with plenty of fresh fruit according to the season of the year. They may be served at a buffet or at a table, or tables, where everyone can sit down, but the viands are the same, and it is an essential thing that a ball supper should be prettily and daintily laid. The dishes, being all put upon the table, require more garnishing than they would if served at dinner, and a great deal of taste may be displayed in the arrangement of a supper. Colours should be prettily contrasted ; all savoury dishes should be made to look as tasteful as possible with their various glazings, aspic jelly, decorated skewers, &c. and plenty of green should give relief to the colour. It is a good plan to have only ferns or palms for table decoration at ball suppers, as fruit gives colour as well as sweet dishes.