394 Recipes for Cooking Beef. Different Seasons for Beef.—We have alrrady stated that the Scots breed of oxen, like the South-Down in mutton, stands first in excellence. It should be borne in mind, however, that each county has its particular season, and that the London and other large markets are supplied by those counties whose meat, irom local circumstances, is in the best condition at the time. Thus, the season in Norfolk, from which the Scots come (these being the principle oxen bred by the Norfolk and Suffolk graziers), commences about Christmas and terminates about June, when this breed begins to fall off, their place being taken by grass-fed oxen. A large quantity of most excellent meat is sent to the “ dead markets ” from Scotland, and some of the best London butchers are supplied from this source. 878.-BROILED BEEF AND MUSHROOM SAUCE. {Fr.— Bceuf Grille aux Champignons.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 dozen small button-mushrooms, x oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, mashed potatoes, slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Wipe the mushrooms free from grit with a piece of flannel, and salt: put them in a stewpan with the butter, seasoning, and ketchup ; stir over the fire until the mushrooms are quite done, when pour it in the middle of mashed potatoes, browned. Then place round the potatoes slices of cold roast beef nicely broiled over a clear fire. In making the mushroom sauce, the ketchup may be dispensed with, if there is sufficient gravy. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, exclusive of the meat, 8d. Seasonable from August to October. 879.—BROILED BEEF AND OYSTER SAUCE. {Fr.—Boeuf Grille aux Huitres.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—2 dozen oysters, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butter, £ teaspoonful of flour, cayenne and salt to taste, mashed potatoes, a fewr slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Put the oysters in a stewpan, with their liquor, strained ; add the cloves, mace, butter, flour, and seasoning, and let them simmer gently for 5 minutes. Have ready, in the centre of a dish round walls of mashed potatoes, browned ; into the middle pour the oyster sauce, quite hot, and round the potatoes place, in layers, slices of the beef, which should be previously broiled over a nice clear fire. Time.—5 minutes. Average Cost, 2s. 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to April.