1241 Iceland Moss. or plain crisp biscuits. When the egg is not warmed, the mixture will be found easier of digestion, but it is not so pleasant a drink. Sufficient for 1 person. 2797.—TO MAKE GRUEL FOR INVALIDS. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of Robinson’s patent groats, 2 table- spoonfuls of cold water, 1 pint of boiling water. Mode.—Mix the prepared groats smoothly with the cold water in a basin ; pour over them the boiling water, stirring it all the time. Put it into a very clean saucepan ; boil the gruel for 10 minutes, keeping it well stirred, sweeten to taste and serve. It may be flavoured with a small piece of lemon-peel, by boiling it in the gruel, or a little grated nutmeg may be put in; but in these matters the taste of the patient should be consulted. Pour the gruel in a tumbler and serve. When wine is allowed to the invalid, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry or port make this preparation very nice. In cases of colds, the same quantity of spirits is sometimes added instead of wine. Fine oatmeal may be used, but it then requires rather longer boiling. Time.—10 minutes. Sufficient to make a pint of gruel. 2798.-ICELAND MOSS. Mode.—Wash the moss very thoroughly. Put it in cold water and let it nearly boil. Throw this first water away, as it will be bitter. Then put the moss on again with water, allowing 1 oz. of moss to a pint and a half of water. Boil it for 15 or 20 minutes, and strain it while hot. It should be sweetened, and flavoured with lemon or spice. Milk can be used instead of water. It is a slightly bitter drink, or if a sufficient quantity of the moss is used it cools into a jelly. 2799—IMPERIAL OR CREAM OF TARTAR DRINK. Mode.—Dissolve half an ounce of cream of tartar in half a pint of syrup of sugar and water, add 20 drops of essence of lemon, and keep it in a bottle to be diluted with water, or soda-water, as required. It will keep a long time. 2800.—IRISH MOSS OR CARRAGEEN. Mode.—This seaweed has a reputation as a remedy for chest diseases. It should be first soaked and washed in cold water, and then boiled for a quarter of a hour in fresh water, allowing half an ounce of moss to a pint and a half of water. Strain, and when cold it will set to a jelly. If required as a drink, it should have double the quantity of water, or milk can be used.