DESSERT DISHES & SMALL SAVOURIES. CHAPTER XXXIV. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON DESSERT DISHES AND SMALL SAVOURIES SERVED AT BEGINNING & END OF DINNER. 2060. Dessert at the present day is not so profuse, nor does it hold the same relationship to the dinner that it held with the ancients—the Romans more especially. On ivory tables they would spread hundreds of different kinds of raw, cooked, and preserved fruits, tarts and cakes, as substitutes for the more substantial comestibles with which the guests were satiated. However, as late as the reigns of our last two Georges, fabulous sums were often expended upon fanciful desserts. Many people prefer to have no fruit placed upon the table during dinner, the decoration being only floral, and it cannot be denied that this is a good plan, when the dessert consists of such highly perfumed fruit as pines or melons; but whether the dishes are put on the table or not, the dessert cer- tainly repays, in its general effect, the expenditure upon it of much pains; and it may be said that, if there be any poetry at all in meals, or the process of feeding, there is poetry in the dessert, the materials for which should be selected with taste, and, of course, must depend, in a great measure, upon the season. Pines, melons, grapes, peaches, nectarines, plums, strawberries, apples, pears, oranges, almonds, raisins, figs, walnuts, filberts, medlars, cherries, &c. &c., all kinds of dried fruits, and choice and delicately-flavoured cakes and biscuits, make up the dessert, together with the most costly and recherche wines. 2061. Dessert Services.— The shape, material and pattern of dessert services is so varied, and depends so much upon taste, that the word fashion may hardly be used in reference to them, though it may be said that the services now most sold are those in which the colours are pale and delicate, and that the stands for fruit are of medium height, or quite low. Still, those who possess handsome antique services of either silver or china, generally prefer to use them in place of the more modern style, the beauty of the services tending to enhance the splendour of the plate. White china forms some of the prettiest dessert services now, and is the one most calculated to show off the beauty of the fruit; but a dessert centre of plush, velvet, or silk should be used with them, or the beauty of the service will be lost upon the white cloth. The mode of putting a dessert on a table depends entirely upon the height and size of the stands and the fruit chosen ; but it may be said that the dishes should form a sort of inner circle, oval or square, according to the shape of the table, and that any tall stands, or such fruits as pines or melons, generally look best