forcemeat for Fish. sg$ Mode.—Shred the ham or bacon, chop the suet, lemon-peel and herbs, taking particular care that all be very finely minced ; add a seasoning to taste, of salt, cayenne and mace, and blend all thoroughly together with the bread-crumbs before wetting. Now beat and strain the eggs, work these up with the other ingredients, and the forcemeat will be ready for use. When it is made into balls, fry of a nice brown in boiling lard, or put them on a tin and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. As we have stated before, no one flavour should predominate greatly, and the forcemeat should be of sufficient body to cut with a knife, and yet not dry and heavy. For very delicate forcemeat, it is advisable to pound the ingredients together before binding with the egg ; but for ordinary cook- ing, mincing very finely answers the purpose. Average Cost, 8d. Sufficient for a turkey, a moderate-sized fillet of veal, or a hare. Note.—In forcemeat for Hare, the liver of the animal is sometimes added. Boil for 5 minutes, mince it very small, and mix it with the other ingredients. If it should be in an unsound state, it must on no account be made use of. Sweet Herbs.—Those most usually employed for purposes of cook- ing, such as the flavouring of soups, sauces, forcemeats, &c., are thyme, sage, mint, marjoram, savory and basil. Other sweet herbs are cultivated for purposes of medicine and perfumery; they are most grateful both to the organs of taste and smell; and to the aroma de- rived from them is due, in a great measure, the sweet and exhilarating fragrance of our “flowery meads.’’ In town, sweet herbs have to be procured at the green- grocers' or herbalists’, whilst, in the country the garden should furnish all that are wanted, the cook taking great care to have some dried in the autumn for her use throughout the winter months. 630— FORCEMEAT FOR BAKED PIKE. (Fr.—Farce de Huitres et d’Anchois.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs, 8 oysters, 2 anchovies (these may be dispensed with); 2 oz. of suet, salt, pepper and pounded mace to taste, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Beard and mince the oysters, prepare and mix the other ingredients, and blend the whole thoroughly together. Moisten with the cream and eggs, put all into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it thickens, when put it into the fish, which should have previously been cut open, and sew it up. Time.—4 or 5 minutes to thicken. Average Cost, lod Sufficient for a moderate-sized pike.