Seasonable from March to October. 4^3 Fricandeau of Veak 1023.—F ricandeau of veal. (Ft.—Fricandeau a I’Oseille, etc.) {More Economical.) Ingredients.—The best end of a neck of veal (about lbs.), lardoons (strips of bacon cut for larding), 2 carrots, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little whole white pepper, a few slices of fat bacon. Mode.—Cut away the lean part of the best end of a neck of veal with a sharp knife, scooping it from the bones. Put the bones in with a little water, which will serve to moisten the fricandeau; they should stew about hour. Card the veal, proceed in the same way as in the preceding recipe, and be careful that the gravy does not touch the fricandeau. Stew very gently for 3 hours ; glaze and serve it on sorrel, spinach, or with a little gravy in the dish. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable from March to October. Note.—When the prime part of the leg is cutoff, it spoils the ivhole; conse- quently, to use this for a fricandeau is rather extiavagant. The best end of the neck answers the purpose nearly or quite as well. 1024.-VEAL COLLOPS. [Fv— Escalopes de Veau Farcies.) Ingredients.—About 2 lbs. of the prime part of the leg of veal, a few slices of bacon, forcemeat, N o. 629, cayenne to taste, egg and bread-crumbs, gravy. Mode.—Cut the veal into long thin collops, flatten them, and lay on each a piece of thin bacon of the same size ; have ready some forcemeat, made by recipe No. 629, which spread over the bacon; sprinkle over all a little cayenne, roll them up tightly, and do not let them be more than 2 inches long. Skewer each one firmly, egg-and-bread-crumb them, and fry them a nice brown in a little butter, turning them occasionally, and shaking the pan about. When done, place them on a dish before the fire ; put a small piece of butter in the pan, dredge in a little flour, add a quar- ter pint of water, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, a seasoning of salt, pepper and pounded mace ; let the whole boil up, and pour it over the collops. Time.—Froru 10 to 15 minutes. Average Cost, 3s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.