1048 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. from the stalks, pound them, and sift them through a hair-sieve; mix in the above proportions and keep in glass bottles, carefully excluding the air. This we think a far better method of keeping herbs, as the flavour and fragrance do not evaporate so much as when they are merely put in paper bags. Preparing them in this way, you have them ready for use at a moment’s notice. Mint, sage, parsley, &c., dried, pounded, and each put into separate bottles, will be found very useful in winter. Corks with Wooden Tops.—These are the best corks to use when it is indis- pensable that the air shouli not be admitted to the ingredients contained in bottles which are in constant use. The top, which, as will be seen by the accompanying little cut, is larger than the cork, is made of wood ; and, besides effectually covering the whole top of the bottle, can be easily removed and again used, as no corkscrew is necessary to pull it out. Savory.—This we find described by Columella, a voluminous Roman writer on agriculture, as an odoriferous herb, which, “ in the brave days of old,” entered into the seasoning of nearly every dish. Verily, there are but few new things under the sun, and we don’t find that we have made many discoveries in gastronomy, at least beyond what was known to the ancient inhabitants of Italy. We possess two varieties of this aromatic herb, known to naturalists as Satureja. They are called summer and winter savory, according to the time of the year when they are fit for gathering. Both sorts are in general cultivation throughout England. 2278.-MUSHROOM POWDER. (Fr.—Champignons en Poudre.) (A Valuable Addition to Sauces and Gravies, when Fresh Mushrooms are not Obtainable.) Ingredients.—| peck of large mushrooms, 2 onions, 12 cloves, £ ounce of pounded mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper. Mode.— Peel the mushrooms, wipe them perfectly free from grit and dirt, remove the black fur, and reject all those that are at all wormeaten; put them into a stewpan with the above ingredients, but without water ; shake them over a clear fire till all the liquor is dried up, and be careful not to let them burn ; arrange them on tins, and dry them in a slow oven; pound them to a fine powder, which put into small dry bottles; cork well, seal the corks, and keep it in a dry place. In using this powder, add it to the gravy just before serving, when it will merely require one boil up. The flavour imparted by this means to the gravy ought to be exceedingly good. Seasonable.—This should be made in September, or at the beginning of October. Note.—If the bottles in which it is stored away are not perfectly dry, as also the mushroom powder, it will keep good but a very short time. 2279.—TO DRY MUSHROOMS. (Fr.—Champignons Secs.) Mode.—Wipe them clean, take away the brown part, and peel off the skin ; lay them on sheets of paper to dry, in a cool oven, when they will CORK WITH WOOTEN TOP