Beef Rolls. 409 Mode.—Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in 1 glass of port and 1 glass of vinegar mixed, and let it remain for 2 days. Make a forcemeat by recipe No. 629, lay it on the meat, and bind it up securely. Roast it before a nice clear fire, and baste it with 1 glass each of port and vinegar, with which mix a teaspoonful of pounded allspice. Serve, with a good gravy in the dish, and send red currant jelly to table with it. Time.—A piece of 5 lbs. about 1 % hour before a brisk fire. Average Cost, for this quantity, 6s. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 915-—BEEF ROLLS. (Fr.—Petits Pates de Bceuf.) (Cold Meat Cookery.) Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled beef, seasoning to taste of salt, pepper and minced herbs; puff paste. Mode.—Mince the beef tolerably fine with a small amount of its own fat; add a seasoning of pepper, salt and chopped herbs; put the whole into a roll of puff paste, and bake for half an hour, or rather longer, should the roll be very large. Beef patties may be made of cold meat, by minc- ing and seasoning beef as directed above, and baking in a rich puff paste in patty tins. Time.— 4 hour. Seasonable at any time. 9x6.—MINIATURE ROUND OF BEEF. (Fr.—Rouelle de Bceuf.) (An Excellent Dish for a Small Family.) Ingredients.—From 5 to 10 lbs. of ribs of beef, sufficient brine to cover the meat. Mode.—Choose a fine rib, have the bone removed, rub some salt over the inside, and skewer the meat up into a nice round form, and bind it with tape. Put it into sufficient brine to cover it (the brine should be made by recipe No. 910), and let it remain for 6 days, turning the meat every day. When required to be dressed, drain from the pickle, and put the meat into very hot water; let it boil rapidly for a few minutes, when draw the pot to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently until done. Remove the skewer, and replace it by a plated or silver one. Carrots and turnips should be served with this dish, and may be boiled with the meat. Time.—A small round of 8 lbs., about 2 hours after the water boils; one of 12 lbs. about 3 hours. Average Cost, 8id. per lb.