Fried Flounders. - 229 Sufficient, 1 for each person. 475.-BOIL.ED FLOUNDERS. {Ft.—Carrelets Boults a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.'—Sufficient water to cover the flounders, salt in the pro- portion of 6 oz. to each gallon, a little vinegar. Mode.—Put on a kettle with enough water to cover the flounders, lay in the fish, add salt and vinegar in the above proportions, and when it boils, simmer very gently for 5 minutes. They must not boil fast, or they will break. Serve with plain melted butter, or parsley and butter. Time.—After the water boils, 5 minutes. Average Cost, 3^. each. Seasonable, all the year; most plenti- ful from August to November. The Flounder.—This comes under the tribe usually denominated Flat-fish, and is generally held in the small- est estimation of any among them. It is an inhabitant of both the seas and the rivers, while it thrives in ponds. On the English coasts it is very abundant, and the Lon- don market consumes it in large quantities. It is con- sidered easy of digestion, and the Thames flounder is esteemed a delicate fish. 476.—FRIED FLOUNDERS. (Fr.—Carrelets Frits.) Ingredients.—Flounders, egg and bread-crumbs, boiling lard. Mode.—Cleanse the fish, and, two hours before they are wanted, rub them inside and out with salt, to render them firm ; wash and wipe them very dry, dip them into egg, and sprinkle over with bread-crumbs; fry them in boiling lard, dish on a hot napkin, and garnish with crisped parsley. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, according to size. Average Cost, 3d. each. Seasonable all the year round; most plentiful from August to November. 477.—BROILED FLOUNDERS. These, when sufficiently large, are very nice broiled for breakfast on a gridiron in front of the fire, with a little butter rubbed over. Small plaice are good cooked in the same manner. 478.—GUDGEONS. (Fr.—Goujons Pan^s et Frits.) Ingredients.~Egg and bread-crumbs sufficient for the quantity of fish ; hot lard. Mod©,—Do not scrape off the scale3s but take out the gills and inside, FLOUNDERS.