1296 General Observations on Italian Cookery. present day, the knowledge of cookery does not, as it ought to do in every country, fun through all classes. On the contrary, it constitutes no necessary part of a girl’s education, and few of them hear anything about it until they grow up. The question of making cooking a branch of education is now being agitated in Italy, as it is in other countries, and certainly not too soon. 2943. The poorer classes amongst the Italians are entirely ignorant of cookery, but the peasantry are easily satisfied, sun and warmth making up for a good deal of the want of nourishment more solid than usually falls to their lot. It is a sight of every-day occurrence to note a whole family, from the grandfather downwards, seated on a flight of steps in the glowing sun, and eating their midday meal, which consists solely of oranges or dates, the latter of which they pluck from a branch of a date palm, smilingly dividing the spoils amongst themselves. They appear to be quite happy and contented, but how far such nutriment would go to support an able-bodied man, or growing boys and girls, is another matter. 2944. Style of Cooking.—On the whole, in their style of cooking, arrangements of the table, and in the hours of partaking of their meals, the Italians resemble the French, as, indeed, all the Latin races resemble each other in many points, only the Italians are more artistic, as is but natural in the land of a Michael Angelo and a Raphael. Like the French, and the Germans too, they live for the most part in flats. The kitchens are well lighted, these dwellers in a Southern clime, although careful to exclude the sun during the greater part of the day, regarding its light as a necessity to health and cleanliness. In modern kitchens the stove used for cooking is precisely the same as the large metal one used in Germany, with its oven, boiler, and many-holed surface. Most of the saucepans and pans are of iron or copper. The floor is flagged, in many cases with marble, as are the bedrooms, and quaint-shaped utensils of every kind fill the shelves. 2945. Meals in Italy.—The brightness of the sun calls the Italians from their rest at an early hour. Their first repast is a cup of coffee or chocolate, with a delicate hot roll, partaken of in their bed-room between the hours of six and seven. Their second breakfast, collazione, is served somewhere about eleven or twelve, according to the preference or occupation of the family. All assemble at this meal,(and display a considerable interest in the many good things set before them. An Italian collazione much resembles a French dejeuner a la fourchctte in the variety of its dishes. The table is prettily set out, and decorated with flowers and fruit, the glowing orange hiding amidst its dark leaves fiequently lending attraction to the appearance of it. Ricotta, a kind of soft cheese, almost always makes one of the dishes at collazione. Five o’clock is the hour for dinner, pranzo, which has, as in France, its many courses. Soup, bouilli, hors d'ceuvre without number, fish, entries, roast and sweets succeed each other in like manner. The decoration of the dinner-table is truly artistic. 2946. The Asticciuole are a peculiar feature. They are silver skewers with highly ornamental and fanciful heads, upon which are tastefully arranged, with due regard to the effect of colour, jellies, vegetables, truffles, mushrooms, cockscombs, prawns and the like. Thus decorated they are stuck, in twos, threes or more, into joints, poultry, fish and entries, and produce a novel and striking effect. Dishes are frequently surrounded by wreaths of camellias, pink and white, and the combination of the snow-white perfect blossom with branches of violets gracefully interspersed is both original and beautiful, and a very