Apple Wine. 1197 Mode. —Put the cocoa into a breakfast-cup, pour over it sufficient milk to make it into a smooth paste ; then add equal quantities of boiling milk and boiling water, and stir all well together. Care must be taken not to allow the milk to get burnt, as it will entirely spoil the flavour of the preparation. The rock cocoa, or that bought in a solid piece, should be scraped, and made in the same manner, taking care to rub down all the lumps before the boiling liquid is added. All cocoa is better boiled for a minute or two. Sufficient.—2 teaspoonfuls of prepared cocoa, or 1 of Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, for 1 breakfast-cup, or £ oz. of the cocoa for the same quantity. COCOA-BEAN. rock WINES AND LIQUEURS. 2673.-APPLE WINE. Ingredients.—40 lbs. of sugar, 15 gallons of cider. Mode.—The cider must be pure and made only from really ripe, souna apples (this is important). If the wine is to be quite sweet, add another 10 lbs. of sugar, and put all into the cider, letting it stand till dissolved. Put the liquor into a cask but leave it unfilled to the extent of 2 gallons. Put the cask into a cool position, with the bung out for 48 hours. After this bung it up, but let there be a small vent somewhere—in the bung would do—until the fermentation is over. Then bung up quite securely, and the wine will be ready for consumption in twelve months. There is no racking required in the manufacture of this wine. Time.—to remain in the cask twelve months. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. per gallon. Seasonable, make this in January or February 2674.-APRICOT WINE. Ingredients.—12 lbs. of ripe apricots, 6 oz. of loaf sugar to every quart of liquor. Mode.—Wipe the apricots, cut them in pieces and let them boil in two gallons of water. After boiling up, let them simmer, till the liquor is strongly impregnated with the flavour of the fruit. Strain through a hair sieve, and put 6 oz. of lump sugar to every quart of liquor. Boil up again, skim very carefully, and as soon as no more scum appears, pul it into an