55^ RecipdS fdY Cooking Pork. sawdust of oak or other hard wood. The latter mode of completing the curing process has some advantage over the other, as by it the meat is subject to the action of creosote, a volatile oil produced by the combustion of the sawdust, which is powerfully antiseptic. The process also furnish- ing a thin covering of a resinous varnish, excludes the air not only from the muscle but also from the fat; thus effectually preventing the meat from becomiug rusted ; and the principal reasons for condemning the practice of removing the ribs from the flitches of pork are, that by so doing the meat becomes unpleasantly hard and pungent in the process of salting, and by being more opposed to the action of the air, becomes sooner and more extensively rusted. Notwithstanding its superior efficacy in completing the process of curing, the flavour which smoke- drying imparts to meat is disliked by many persons, and it is therefore by no means the most general mode of drying adopted by mercantile curers. A very impure variety of pyroligneous acid, or vinegar made from the destructive distillation of wood, is sometimes used, on account of the highly preservative power of the creosote which it contains, and also to impart the smoke-flavour; in which latter object, however, the coarse flavour of tar is given, rather than that derived from the smoke from com- bustion of wood. A considerable portion of the bacon and hams salted in Ireland is exported from that country packed amongst salt, in bales, immediately from the salting process, without having been in any degree dried. In the process of salting above described, pork loses from eight to ten per cent, of its weight, according to the size and quality of the meat; and a further diminution of weight, to the extent of five to six per cent., takes place in drying during the first fortnight after being taken out of salt; so that the total loss in weight occasioned by the preparation of bacon and hams in a proper state for market, is not less on an average than fifteen per cent, on the weight of the fresh pork. 1204.-COLL ARED PIG’S FACE. (Fr.—Hure de Cochon en Galantine.) (A Breakfast or Luncheon Dish.) Ingredients.^i pig’s face; salt. For brine, 1 gallon of spring water, 1 lb. of common salt, £ handful of chopped juniper berries, 6 bruised cloves, 2 bay-leaves, a few sprigs of thyme, basil, sage, £ oz. of saltpetre. For forcemeat, $ lb. of ham, £ lb: of bacon, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices, pepper to taste, £ lb. of lard, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 6 young onions. Mode.—Singe the head carefully, bone it without breaking the skin, and