Duties of Wet Nurse. 1547 in preference to that of the nurse, whose plan is probably based on a compre- hensive forethought, and rendered perfect in all its details by an ample experience. In all our remarks on this subject, we should remember with gentleness the order of society from which our nurses are drawn ; and that those who make their duty a study, and are termed professional nurses, have much to endure from the caprice and egotism of their employers ; while others are driven to the occupation from the laudable motive of feeding their own children, and who, in fulfilling that object are too often both selfish and sensual, performing, without further interest than is consistent with their own advantage the routine of customary duties. Properly speaking, there are two nurses—the nurse for the mother and the nurse for the child, or, the monthly and the wet-nurse. Of the former we have already spoken, and will now proceed to describe the duties of the latter, and add some suggestions as to her age, physical health and moral conduct, subjects oi the utmost importance as far as the charge entrusted to her is concerned, and therefore demanding some special remarks. 3477. State of Health.— The age, if possible, should not be less than twenty nor exceed thirty years, with the health sound in every respect, and the body free from all eruptive disease or local blemish. The best evidence of a sound state of health will be found in the woman's clear open countenance, the ruddy hue of the skin, the full, round and elastic state of the breasts, and especially in the erectile, firm condition of the nipple, which, in all unhealthy states of the body, is pendulous, flabby and relaxed ; in which case, the milk is sure to be imperfect in its organization, and, consequently, deficient in its nutrient qualities. Appetite is another indication of health in the suckling-nurse or mother ; for it is impossible a woman can feed her child without having a corresponding appetite ; and though inordinate craving for food is neither desirable nor neces- sary, a natural vigour should be experienced at meal-times, and the food taken should be anticipated and enjoyed. Besides her health, the moral state of the *iurse is to be taken into account, or that mental discipline or principle of conduct which would deter the nurse from at any time gratifying her own pleasures and appetites at the cost or suffering of her infant charge. 3478. The conscientiousness and good faith that would prevent a nurse so acting are, unfortunately, very rare; and many nurses, rather than forego the enjoyment of a favourite dish, though morally certain of thev^ffect it will have on the child, will, on the first opportunity, feed with avidity on fried meats, cabbage, cucumbers, pickles, or other crude and injurious aliments, in defiance of all orders given dr confidence reposed in their word, good sense and humanity And when the infant is afterwards racked with pain, and a night of disquiet alarms the mother, the doctor is sent for, and the nurse, covering her dereliction by a falsehood, the consequence of her gluttony is treated as a disease, and the poor infant is dosed for some days with medicines that can do it but little if any good, and, in all probability, materially retard its physical development. The selfish nurse, in her ignorance, believes, too, that as long as she experiences no admonitory symptoms herself, the child cannot suffer; and is satisfied that, whatever is the cause of its screams and plunges, neither she, nor what she had eaten, had anything to do with it; with this flattering assurance at her heart, she watches her opportunity, and has another luxurious feast off the proscribed dainties, till the increasing dis- turbance in the child’s health, or treachery from the kitchen, opens the eyes of mother and doctor to the nurse’s unprincipled conduct. In all such cases the infant should be spared the infliction of medicine, and, as a wholesome cor- rective to herself, and relief to her charge, a good sound dose administered to the nurse.