VEGETARIAN RECIPES. CHAPTER XXVII. 1448. Vegetarianism.—As it is intended that this book shall afford useful information for all housekeepers, it has been thought well to add this chapter for the benefit of those persons who do not eat animal food, or who, at any rate, do not destroy animal life for the purpose of feeding themselves. It has been added the more readily because it is impossible not to feel that English people make too small a use of vegetable food, and are lamentably ignorant of its nutritive value, as well as of the best ways of preparing it. There are living in England at the present time a large number of persons who are roughly classed together as vegetarians, and who, in point of fact, either abstain from animal food altogether, or who only take it in such forms as milk, cheese, butter, eggs, and very occasionally fish. Of course these last are not, strictly speaking, vegetable feeders, for all these animal products are highly con- centrated forms of nourishment. Of course, too, vegetarians abstain from meat from many and mixed motives, with which in the present place we have little to do. It is said that health suffers from our flesh-eating habits ; that moral excel- lence is most easily attained on a simple diet ; that the sights and sounds of the cattle-market and the slaughter-house are disgraceful to humanity; that money spent on unnecessary food should be applied to the elevation of the race. Under all these heads there is much to be said. No one will deny that more evil comes from eating too much than from eating too little, and that the foods people do eat too much of are, as a rule, meat, game, fish, eggs, cream, milk, cheese, upon which the culinary art seems often to be exercised only to tempt us beyond the appeasement of appetite for the gratification of taste. No man eats too much of bread and potatoes. Hence the prevalence among the wealthier classes of diseases of the overtaxed excretory organs. Again, one does not look for moral excellence in a bear; but there is the pertinent case of Baron Liebig's bear at Giessen— tame and harmless so long as it was fed on vegetable food, savage when it was fed on meat. The slaughter-house, meat-eaters try to forget. And as for money, Christmas bills, with the butcher's at the head of them, have passed into a proverb. 1449. Lenten Fare.—It is curious that it has often been customary, or prescribed as a duty, to abstain from flesh during certain seasons or under special circumstances. The Lenten fast wa? ordered, and was observed all over the Christian world. In French cookery-books a chapter corresponding to this treats of food for Lent and fast-days. Among English-speaking people, who have, in the past years of prosperity, consumed an ever-increasing quantity of meat, the protest against indulgence, and the call for a simpler diet, comes from anothei quarter.