712 Vegetarian Recipes. the maccarom. When it is hot through it is ready to serve. The onion should be removed. 1476.-MACCARONI PUDDING. Ingredients.—6 oz. of maccaroni, £ lb. of bread, 1 teaspoonful of parsley, ^ teaspoonful of mixed herbs, lemon peel, spice, pepper and salt, 3 oz. of butter, 1 egg. Mode.—Parboil the maccaroni, and with it line a pint buttered basin. Soak the bread in cold water, squeeze it dry, and add the rest of the ingredients with any maccaroni that may be over, cut into pieces. Fill the basin and press it down. Cover it with buttered paper, and steam it hour. Serve hot with*brown sauce. 1477.-POTATOES WITH CHEESE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of boiled potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, pepper and salt, 3 oz. of grated cheese, browned bread-crumbs, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Mash the potatoes while hot, add the milk, seasoning, half the butter and the cheese. Butter a pie dish, strew the crumbs rather thickly put in the potatoes, and bake half an homvin a good oven. Turn it out and serve hot. 1478.—POTATO PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of potatoes, 1 onion, i stick of celery, 1 oz. ot butter, 1 oz. of sago or tapioca, seasoning, paste to cover, water or milk. Mode.—Slice the potatoes and the celery, fry the onion in half the butter, and fill a pie dish with these, strewing in the sago, and seasoning to taste. Fill up with water or milk, put on a cover of paste, and bake in good oven for an hour or more, according to size. 1479.-POTATO ROLLS. Ingredients.—Pastry, potatoes, turnips, celery, onion, parsley, sweet herbs, seasoning, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cut the potatoes small. To each pound add one small turnip, 1 stick of celery, 1 small onion, chopped parsley, herbs and seasoning to taste, and the butter. Roll out the paste to half an inch thick, cut it in rounds or squares, fill each with the vegetables, fold it up like a turnover, and bake about three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot or cold. 1480.-POTATO SANDERS. Ingredients.—Boiled potatoes, flour, salt, bread-crusts soaked in water, chopped parsley and herbs, seasoning, | an onion soaked in boiling water-