Domestic Medicines. 1599 3598. Epsom Salts.— The dose for an adult is half an ounce. They should be taken first thing in the morning and warm drinks given afterwards. They are useful in cases of lead-poisoning or where it is desirable to increase the flow of bile. 3599. Ergot.—In the form of the liquid extract, this drug is useful in an eminent degree in cases of blood-spitting or flooding after confinement. For the former it may be given in doses of fifteen drops every three hours; for the latter a teaspoonful, to be repeated in a quarter of an hour if necessary. 3600. Crullic Acid.—This is useful in cases of spitting or vomiting of blood. Dose. -Ten grains, along with fifteen drops of dilute aromatic sulphuric acid in the former, in water; and alone in milk or water in the latter. Ipecacuanha.—Given as powder, twenty grains at a time, it is a useful emetic in the case of adults; in children, in the form of wine, it is useful or the same purpose in doses of a teaspoonful in tepid water, repeated every quarter of an hour, and drinks of tepid water given between, and is often so administered in croup. In bronchitis and bronchial .catarrh it may be given in doses of two to five drops every three hours, on a lump of sugar to children, and a proportionately larger dose to adults. , , 3602. Ivon Alum.—This is a powerful astringent. It is useful in checking bleeding after extraction of teeth or in case of bleeding from wounds. A crystal should be laid into the cavity or wound. 3603. Laudanum.— This must be given with extreme caution. It should only be given under medical advice to children. In adults it is useful for the relief of such pain as colic, when it may be given along with a dose of castor oil or fifteen drops of spirit of chloroform in water. The dose for an adult is twenty drops. A similar quantity of spirit of chloroform may be given. Lime Water.—This is a useful preparation to give children along with their milk when they are suffering from acidity or diarrhoea. A tablespoon- ful may be mixed with a wineglassful of milk. In cases of vomiting in adults it is also most useful mixed with milk. 3605. Magnesia.—This may be given in doses of twenty or thirty grains to an adult, or five to twelve to those under twelve years. It is very useful in acidity of the stomach. J 3606. Mindererus Spirit.—This is useful in cases of cold to promote sweating. Dose.—A teaspoonful to children from six to twelve, a tablespoonful to adults, in water. 3607. Mustard.—A tablespoonful in tepid water is a useful emetic. Applied as a poultice or leaf to the chest in bronchial colds it is useful, or to the calves of the legs in infantile convulsions. 3608. Quinine. This is an excellent tonic in cases of debility, and may be given in doses of one or two grains three times a day dissolved in a little steel drops or made into pills. It is useful in the same or larger doses in neuralgia, and the combination with steel drops will materially assist. In ague, given in large doses—eight or ten grains—it is most useful. 3609. Ehubarb.— This may be kept in powders in a stoppered bottle each containing from ten to fifteen grains. One given with the same quantity of