The Doctor. 1574 over the body. If the finger be pressed on the forehead, a shotty feeling may be noticed, for the rash of small-pox generally commences there ; at first a pimple forms, but afterwards a pustule, and then it dries or scabs over, and leaves a pit or depression behind. When the rash comes out the temperature falls, but rises again about the eighth or ninth day; in mild cases, however, the secondary fever is hardly perceptible. The eruption usually appears first on the forehead, lace and wrists, then on the rest of the body, coming out on the legs and feet two days later. The eruption takes about eight days to arrive at its full development; during this time there is much swelling of the face and eyelids, so that the patient cannot see for a few days ; in bad confluent cases the face seems covered with a mask, and a disagreeable odour proceeds from the body. Boils are apt to form in cases of confluent small-pox ; they are also very subject to pleurisy, pneumonia, and bronchitis ; sometimes the tongue is much swollen and dry, and the patient may be unable to close the mouth or to speak ; this is a very bad symptom. Inflammation of the ear, followed by an abscess, is not uncommon in this disorder. Erysipelas, gangrene, and pyaemia are now and then met with. Inflammation of the eye and ulceration of the cornea may add to the general mischief. Treatment.—There is no medicine which can check this disorder. The patient should be at once isolated, and it is best when an epidemic is about, that small iron hospitals should be built away from other dwellings where these cases can be treated, and the spread of the disorder diminished. For diet they may have milk, tea, gruel, beef-tea and chicken broth. The room should be thoroughly ventilated without causing too much draught, and the temperature should be kept about 6o° Fahrenheit. All linen, clothes, &c. must be disinfected alter being used. Bed-curtains, carpets and hangings must be dispensed with. Flour, starch or hair powder may be abundantly peppered over the face and body to relieve the itching and discomfort, and to absorb any acrid discharge. Olive oil, cold cream, and glycerine and water give relief when applied locally. 3540 Scarlet Fever or Scarlatina.—This is an acute febrile disease, producing a scarlet rash upon the skin, attended by a sore throat, and often swelling of various glands and sometimes followed by dropsy. It is more com- mon in childhood than in adult life, and one attack confers great, if not complete, immunity from another. This disease gives rise to a great deal of mortality, and chiefly in those under ten years of age ; the following is the number of deaths from this cause in England and Wales for each of the ten years, 1860-70. Year. Deaths. Year. Deaths. i860 9,681 1865 17,700 1861 9,077 1866 11,685 1862 14.834 1867 12,300 1863 30.475 1868 21,912 1864 29,700 1869 27,641 Contagion is the main, if not the only cause of scarlet fever ; measles and whoop- ing cough are more contagious ; typhus fever and diphtheria less contagious. The poison may be retained in clothes for a year or more and then give rise to fever. Both sexes are equally liable to an attack; between eighteen months and five years is the most common time to have the fever ; no season has much influence upon it, but in this country it is perhaps most common between September and November. Maffy people confuse the terms scarlet fever and scarlatina, and imagine the latter is a milder and less dangerous affection ; this is a great mistake, for scarlatina is only the Latin name for scarlet fever, and not a different form ; the term is too often adopted when there is some doubt as to the nature of the