26o Recipes for Cooking Fish. 556.-SOL.ES WITH CREAM SAUCE. (Fr.-Soles h la CrSme.) Ingredients.—2 soles, salt, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, the juice of £ a lemon, salt and water, £ a pint of cream. Mode.—Skin, wash and fillet the soles, and divide each fillet in 2 pieces ; lay them in cold salt and water, which bring gradually to a boil. When the water boils, take out the fish, lay it in a delicately clean stew- pan, and cover with the cream. Add the seasoning ; simmer very gently for 10 minutes, and, just before serving, put in the lemon-juice. The fillets may be rolled, and secured by means of a skewer; but this is not so economical a way of dressing them, as double the quantity of cream is required. A better plan is to divide the fillets lengthways into strips and to tie them in a knot. Time.—10 minutes in the cream. Average Cost, 3s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 persons. This will be found a most delicate and delicious dish. The Sole a Favourite with the Ancient Greeks.—This fish was much sought after by the ancient Greeks on account of its light and nourishing qualities. The brill, the flounder, the diamond and Dutch plaice, which, with the sole, were known under the general name of passeres, were all equally esteemed, and had generally the same qualities attributed to them. 557-—FRIED SOLES. (Fr.—Soles Frites.) Ingredients.—2 middling-sized soles, hot lard or clarified dripping, egg, and bread-crumbs. Mode.—Skin and carefully wash the soles, and cut off the fins, wipe them very dry, and let them remain in the cloth until it is time to dress them. Have ready some fine bread-crumbs and beaten egg; dredge the soles with a little flour, brush them over with egg, and cover with bread- crumbs. Put them in a deep pan with plenty of clarified dripping or lard (when the expense is not objected to, oil is still better) sufficiently hot to neither scorch the fish nor make them sodden. When they are sufficiently cooked on one side, turn them carefully, and brown them on the other; they may be considered ready when a thick smoke rises. It is much better to have fat enough to cover, when they need no turning, but this is easier when the fish is filleted or cut in pieces. Fried in plenty of fat they are never greasy, but a very large kettle is needed to cook a whole sole. (See directions for frying, No. 226.) Lift them out carefully, and lay them before the fire on paper, to absorb the fat. Particular attention should be paid to this, as nothing is more disagreeable than greasy fish; this may be always avoided by dressing them in good time, and allowing