1163 Cheese Straws. dish or plate, this dish being handed round. Should the cheese crumble much, of course this method is rather wasteful, and it may then be put on the table in the piece, and the host may cut from it. When served thus, the cheese must always be carefully scraped, and laid on a white d’oyley or napkin, neatly folded. Cream-cheese is often served in a cheese course, and, sometimes, grated Parmesan; the latter should be put into a covered glass dish. Rusks, cheese-biscuits, pats or slices of butter, and salad, cucumber, or water- cresses, cheese straws and biscuits, ramequins, &c , also form part of a cheese course. CHEESE GLASS. Smoking Cheeses.—The Romans smoked their cheeses, to give them a sharp taste. They possessed public places expressly for this use, and subject to police regulations which no one could evade. A celebrated gourmand remarked that a dinner without cheese is like a woman with one eye. 2592.—CHEESE SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—Slices of brown bread-and-butter, thin slices of cheese. Mode.—Cut from a nice fat Cheshire, or any good rich cheese, some slices about half an inch thick, and place them between some slices of brown bread-and-butter, like sandwiches. Place them on a plate in the oven, and, when the bread is toasted, serve on a napkin very hot and very quickly. Time.—10 minutes in a brisk oven. Average Cost, I\d. each sand- wich. Sufficient.—Allow a sandwich for each person. Seasonable at any time. Cheese.—One of the most important products of coagulated milk is cheese. Unfermented, or cream-cheese, when quite fresh, is good for subjects with whom milk does not disagree ; but cheese, in its commonest shape, is fit for sedentary people only as an after-dinner stimulant, and in very small quantity. Bread and cheese, as a meal, is fit for soldiers on march or labourers in the open air, who like it because it “ holds the stomach a long time.” But it is not readily digestible when raw, and even worse if it is much cooked. Very lightly cooked, it is generally agreed to be in its most digestible state. 2593 —CHEESE STRAWS. Ingredients—2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of flour, 2 oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of cheese, grated, ^ small saltspoon of mixed salt and cayenne. Mode.—Mix these ingredients into a paste, and roll it out a quarter of an inch in thickness ; cut it into narrow slips, lay them on a sheet of paper, and bake for a few minutes. Serve cold, but very fresh. Time.—5 minutes to bake. Average Cost, 3<h Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time.