German Puffs. 893 1907.—FLUTED ROLLS. Ingredients.—Puff-paste, the white of an egg, sifted sugar, jelly or preserve. Mode.— Make some puff-paste by recipe No. 1677 (trimmings answer very well for little dishes of this sort); roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and, with a round fluted paste cutter, stamp out as many round pieces as may be required ; brush over the upper side with the white of an egg ; roll up the pieces, pressing the paste lightly together where it joins ; place the rolls on a baking-sheet, and bake for about a quarter of an hour. A few minutes before they are done, brush them over with the white of an egg; strew over sifted sugar, put them back in the oven, and when the icing is firm and of a pale brown colour they are done. Place a strip of jelly or preserve across each roll, dish them high on a napkin, and serve cold. Time.—£ hour before being iced; 5 to 10 minutes after. Average Cost, iorf. Sufficient.—| lb. of puff-paste for 2 dishes. Seasonable at any time. 1908.—FRANGiPANNI TART. Ingredients.—£ pint of milk, nutmeg, lemon-peel, 1 bay leaf, oz. of butter, oz. of sugar, £ oz. of fine sifted flour, 4 eggs. Mode.—Put the milk, nutmeg, peel and bayleaf on the fire in a sauce- pan and let it boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a pint. Strain it through a cloth or fine hair sieve. When strained add the butter, sugar, flour and eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Stir it continuously over the fire till thoroughly incorporated. Broken up macaroons may be added if liked. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, 71!. for this quantity. Sufficient for one large tart. Seasonable at any time. 1909.—GERMAN PUFFS. Ingredients.—J- lb. of butter, I breakfastcupful of milk, 1 cupful of flour, yolks of 6 and whites of 4 eggs, grated rind of 1 a lemon, sugar to taste. Mode.—Put the milk and butter into a saucepan and let it boil, then gently add the flour and beat thoroughly. Let it grow cold, then add the yolks and whites of eggs, whisked with the sugar and lemon peel. Make into puffs and bake in a rather quick oven. Time.—hour. Average Cost, is. 3d. Sufficient for 12 puffs. Seasonable at any time.