When in Season. 203 In flat fish the skin should be smooth and moist and closely adherent to the flesh. It is a bad sign if the skin is blistered. Salmon, cod and the large white fish generally should have a bronze tint when freshly cut. Turbot and brill should have yellowish flesh. Very large fish are not to be preferred, as they are probably old and tough. A flat fish should be thick in proportion to its size; all fish should have large girth rather than great length. In buying a slice of fish, it is better to choose a thick slice from a small fish than a thin slice from a large one. The red-fleshed and oily fish cannot be eaten too soon after they are out of the •water. If kept they should be cleaned and wiped very dry and laid on stones in a current of air, unless any ice can be obtained. A larger fish can be hungup by the gills. They can be parboiled and so kept for a day or two. Turbot, brill, dory and some other cartilaginous white-fleshed fish can be kept for a day or two with advantage. A turbot must always be hung up by the tail until it is cooked. White fish can be rubbed over w'th salt and so kept for a day or two; but it loses nourishment and quality in the process, which should not be resorted to unless by compulsion. Fish that is not quite fresh can be improved by thorough washing in vinegar and water, or permanganate of potash and water. It is afterwards better fried than boiled, but no dressing will entirely conceal its quality. 418. Fish in Season.—Fish should be not only fresh but of good quality, and in season. Dr. Pavy says : “The quality of fish as an article of food is in- fluenced by the act of spawning, and presents considerable variations at different periods. It is just previous to spawning that the animal is in its highest state of perfection. Its condition altogether is then at its best point. The animal is fatter than at any other period, and of a richer flavour for eating. During the process of spawning its store of fatty matter is drawn upon and it becomes poor, thin, watery and flabby. It is now said to be ‘ out of season,’ and requires time to arrive in condition again. In fish like the cod, where the fatty matter accumu- lates specially in the liver, this organ presents a most striking difference in volume and condition before and after spawning; whilst in such as the salmon, herring, &c., where the fat is dispersed amongst the flesh, it is the body which affords the chief evidence of change. As salmon enters the rivers from the sea for the purpose of depositing its spawn, it is plump and well provided with fat. On its return the contrast in its condition is very great. It is now so exhausted and thin as to be looked upon as unfit for food.” When fish is out of season the flesh is bluish in colour and wants firmness in texture. It does not become flaky and opaque in boiling, and there is none of the coagulated albumen, or curdy matter, between the flakes. The boiling has something to do with this appearance as well as the season. Fish out of season can often be bought at a low price, but it is never cheap. Some few fish are sold all the year round; but for many there is a close time during which they may not be killed or sold under penalty. Anyone who sells fresh salmon between the 3rd of September and the 1st of February is bound to prove that it was caught out of the United Kingdom ; and failing that, is liable to a fine of £1. A good deal of Norwegian salmon is brought to London. Even salted and dried salmon must have been cured out of the country or before the close seasoD began. Trout is out of season for four months from October or November Other freshwater fish are protected from the 15th of March to the 15th of June, by a law passed in 1876, but they form so small a part of the national food supply that few persons notice their absence from the stalls of the fishmonger. Eels are by far the commonest of freshwater fish. Large quantities are caught in the Lincolnshire and Nortolk broads and fens, and eight hundred tons are said to be imported annually from Holland. In the