728 General Observations on Vegetables. matter which is generally removed from vegetables in the process of cooking. Their value in this way to the poorer inhabitants of our towns is scarcely to be overrated. Sufficient care is not however always bestowed upon cleansing them, and there is no doubt that parasitic animals are sometimes introduced into the human body through such negligence. They need to be freshly gathered in order to be wholesome, although they may regain some of their crispness if the stalks are freshly cut and placed under water. Many salad plants contain some essen- tial oil to which their characteristic flavour and odour are due. Lettuce has, (besides, a small quantity of a mild narcotic, the effects of which may occasionally be observed. 1^25. Fungi are used little in this country, although they are plentiful and highly nutritious. Only three kinds are commonly considered as good for food, and of these only one can be said to be commonly eaten. These are the mushroom, agaricus campestris; the morelle, morchella esculenta; and the truffle, tuber cibarium. No doubt there are many other edible kinds, but the prejudice against them is strong, and the difficulty of distinguishing between edible and poisonous kinds prevents these foods from being utilised. It seems, too, as if even the edible kinds might become poisonous under certain special conditions, whether of the food eaten or the individual eating. Mushrooms contain much nitrogen and also much fat, and they are less watery than most of the vegetables of which we have spoken. 1526. Lichens have not often oeen used as food. Iceland moss is used as a food for invalids, and is nourishing. It grows, where nothing else will grow, on barren rocks in northern latitudes. 1527. Seaweeds are occasionally employed as food. Irish moss, or carraigeen, is given to consumptive patients, and is also used commonly as a food in some places. In 100 pounds of the moss there are only 19 of water and 9 of albu- minoids, so that it is among the most nourishing vegetable foods we have. Laver, tangle or red ware, and pulse are also collected and eaten in pickle or as a substi- tute for other boiled vegetables.