To Pickle Hams. 547 nearly or auite a month to do. An ox-tongue pickled in this way is most excellent, to be eaten either green or smokod, Time.—To remain in the pickle, 3 weeks or a month ; to be smokedc about a month. Seasonable from October to March. 1199-TO CURE SWEET HAMS IN THE WESTMORE- LAND WAY. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of common salt, 3 lbs. of coarse sugar, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 3 quarts of strong beer. Mode.—Before the hams are put into pickle, rub them the preceding day well with salt, and drain the brine well from them. Put the above ingredients into a saucepan, and boil for a quarter of an hour; pour over the hams, and let them remain a month in the pickle. Rub and turn them every day, but do not take them out of the pickling-pan; and have them smoked for a month. Time.—To be pickled, 1 month; to be smoked, x month. Seasonable from October to March. 1200.—TO PICKLE HAMS. (Suffolk Recipe.) Ingredients.—To a ham from 10 or 12 lbs. allow 1 lb. of coarse sugar, | lb. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, £ teacupful of vinegar. Mode.—Rub the hams well with common salt, and leave them for a day or two to drain ; then rub well in the above proportion of sugar, salt, saltpetre and vinegar, and turn them every other day. Keep them in the pickle one month, drain them, and send them to be smoked over a wood fire fo£ three weeks or a month. Time.—To remain in the pickle, 1 month ; to be smoked, 3 weeks or 1 month. Sufficient.—The above proportion of pickle sufficient for x ham. Seasonable.—Hams should be pickled from October to March. Novel Way of Recovering a Stolen Pig—It is a well-known fact that in Ireland the pig is, in every respect, a domesticated animal, sharing often both the bed and the board of the family, and making an outer ring to the domestic circle, as, seated round the pot of potatoes, they partake of the midday meal called dinner. An Irishman upon one occasion having lost an interesting member of his household, in the form of a promising young porker, consulted his priest on the occasion, and, having hinted at the person he suspected of purloining the “ illigant slip of a pig," he was advised to take no further notice of the matter, but leave the issue to his spiritual ad- viser. Next Sunday, his reverence, after mass, came to the front of the altar-rails, and, looking very hard at the supposed culprit, exclaimed, “ Who stole Pat Doolan’s pig ? ” To this inquiry there was, of course, no answer ;—the priest did not expect there would be any. The following Sunday the same query was propounded a little stronger—" Who of you was it, I say, who stole poor Pat Doolan’s pig ? ” It now became evident that the culprit was a hardened sinner; so, on (he third Sunday, instead of repeating the unsatisfactory inquiry, the priest, after, as usual, eye-