Restorative Jelly. 1245 wholesome. Tapioca, semolina, vermicelli and macaroni, may all be dressed in the same manner. Time.—From £ to 1 hour. Seasonable at any time. 2811—RESTORATIVE JELLY. (Burdete.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of isinglass, 2 oz. of gum arabic, 2 oz. of sugar candy, a bottle of sherry. Mode.—Put them in ajar, cover it closely, and let it stand all night; then set it in a saucepan of water, and let it simmer till it is dissolved. 2812.—SAGO, CREAM, AND EXTRACT OF BEEF. (Tanner.) Ingredients.—2 oz. of sago, £ pint of water, ^ pint of cream, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 quart of beef tea. Mode.—Wash 2 oz. of sago until the water poured from it is clear. Then stew the sago in half a pint of water until it is quite tender and very thick: mix with it half a pint of good cream and the yolks of 4 eggs, and mingle the whole with 1 quart of beef-tea, which should be boiling. Useful in cases of lingering convalescence after acute disease. 2813.—TAPIOCA AND COD LIVER. (Alexis Soyer.) Ingredients.— i lb. of tapioca, 2 quarts of water, | pint of milk, 1 lb. af fresh cod liver, salt, pepper. Mode.—Boil a quarter of a pound of tapioca till tender in 2 quarts of water, drain it, add half a pint of milk, salt and pepper to season, and 1 lb. of fresh cod liver cut in pieces. Simmer very slowly for half an hour till the liver is quite cooked. Press on it with a spoon to get as much oil into the tapioca as possible. After taking away the liver, mix the tapioca. If too thick, add a little more milk. Tapioca thus cooked is nourishing and easily digested. 2814.-TO MAKE TOAST-AND-WATER. Ingredients.—A slice of bread, 1 quart of boiling water. Mode.—Cut a slice from a stale loaf (a piece of hard crust is better than anything else for the purpose), toast it of a nice brown on every side, but do not allow it to burn or blacken. Put it into a jug, pour the boiling water over it, cover it closely, and let it remain until cold. When strained* it will be ready for use. Toast-and-water should always be made a shoit