Tinned Soups. 565 feeding power in a 2 lb. tin of meat as in 2 lbs. of cooked meat. Practice, how- ever, convinces us that the value of the two is not the same. Not what a man swallows, but what he digests and assimilates feeds him. It is, besides, necessary that the digestive organs should be always employed, for as soon as their work is done they clamour for more. A very readily digestible food even if it be nutri- tious, is not desirable for the man who works hard all day in the open air. Tinned meat is received with disfavour on account of both these objections. The hardworking poor complain that it is not as satisfying as an equal weight of butchers’ meat : and the fastidious declare that the peculiar toughness of the overcooked fibre and the want of flavour prevent that willing digestion for which the agreeable character of the food is one of the first necessities. Probably a great part of that sold in this country is eaten cold by those who by ignorance or by circumstances are prevented from cooking at home. That it is a good change from the salt fish and meat with which it alternates in the diet of the poor is sufficiently proved by the successful use of tinned meat on board ship, where salt junk was until recently served out daily. 1231. To Cook Tinned Meat.—But for our readers tinned meat is only an addition to an already sufficient diet, chiefly valuable because it is at hand when butcher’s shops are not, and is convenient to furnish forth an impromptu meal. Scattered up and down among recipes for cold meat cookery many hints and directions are given for the substitution of tinned meat. That it is cooked too much and should be but just warmed through in a good gravy is as a rule true of all cold meat, which is very frequently spoiled by boiling and simmering, but it is especially true here. That the meat is tasteless and insipid necessitates a high-flavoured or sharp sauce. And because the tough fibres and unusual consistence of the meat constitute one of its greatest faults, it is often advisable to chop or mince it before serving. Perhaps the best plan of all is to take out any large and well- shaped pieces that may be suitable for serving whole in a gravy, and then to reserve the scraps for mincing separately as croquettes, rissoles, &c. The fat is always melted and has the unpleasant granular texture of dripping, so that it is as well to remove it at once and to use it for the sauce, or to melt it down and reserve it for any other purpose. Melted beef fat or marrow is sold in tins for pastry making, and is cheap and good. It can be used at any time instead of lard or dripping. 1232. Tinned Soups are certainly the best foods of the class. There is no overcooking here, and country housewives find it indispensable, as their town sisters find it desirable, to have a tin of soup to fall back on in an emergency. Both meat and vegetable soups are sold : the former require the addition of water and flavouring; a vegetable broth is the best combination of these two. Several quarts of pot liquor—such as that for instance in which a leg of mutton and carrots have been boiled—can be turned into palatable soup with a tin of meat soup. Moreover, if every cook carried out our directions for a stock-pot, on page 135, there would always be the wherewithal to make a tin of soup into a tureen full. In all tinned foods there is a danger that small lumps of solder, used in sealing the tin, may fall inside and be accidentally swallowed with the meat. In turning out a tin of soup they should be looked for in the sediment at the bottom and removed. The danger is frequently obviated by leaving a small projection of tin underneath the hole to catch ths-solder. 1233. Tinned Fish is very largely consumed. Some are preserved in the same way as the meat; in others oil is used: the object in all cases being to