Raspberry Cream. 955 Put plenty of good lard into a frying-pan, and drop a tablespoonful of the batter at a time into it, and fry the fritters a nice brown. Serve them with the following sauce —A glass of sherry mixed with the strained juice of a lemon, and sufficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Warm these ingredients, and serve the sauce separately in a tureen. The fritters should be neatly dished on a white d’oyley, and pounded sugar sprinkled over them ; and they ahould be well drained on a piece ' f blot- ting-paper before the fire previously to being dished. Time.—From 6 to 8 minutes. Average Cost, is. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 204T.—RASPBERRY CREAM. (Fr — Creme aux Framboises.) Ingredients.—£ pint of milk, f pint of cream, oz. of gelatine, rasp- berry jelly, sugar to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Simmer the milk, cream, and isinglass together a quarter of an hour, or until the latter is melted, and strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin. Let it cool a little ; then add to it sufficient raspberry jelly, which, when melted, would make one-third of a pint, and stir well till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. If not sufficiently sweet, add a little pounded sugar with the brandy: whisk the mixture well until nearly cold, put it into a well-oiled mould, and set it in a cool place till perfectly set. Rasp- berry jam may be substituted for the jelly, but must be melted, and rubbed through a sieve, to free it from seeds ; in summer, the juice of the fresh fruit may be used, by slightly mashing it with a wooden spoon, and sprinkling sugar over it; the juice that flows from the fruit should then be used for mixing with the cream. If the colour should not be very good, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added to improve its appearance. Time.—£ hour for the cream and gelatine. Average Cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable, with jelly, at any time. Note.—Strawberry cream may be made in precisely the same manner, substi- tuting strawberry jam or jelly for the raspberry. 2042.—RICE BLANCMANGE. (Fr.—Blanc Manger de Riz.) Ingredients.—£ lb. of ground rice, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 1 oz. of fresb butter, 1 quart of milk, flavouring of lemon-peel, essence of almonds or vanilla, or laurel-leaves. RASPBERRY-CREAM MOULD.