Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 774 Time.—| of an hour. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient for 9 persons. Seasonable at any time, but best in winter. 1618.—POTATO SNOW. (R-Pommes de Terre au Neige.) Ingredients.—Potatoes, salt and water. Mode.—Choose white potatoes, as free from spots as possible ; boil them in their skins in salt and water until perfectly tender, drain and dry them thoroughly by the side of the fire, and peel them. Put a hot dish before the fire, rub the potatoes through a coarse sieve on to this dish ; do not touch them afterwards, or the flakes will fall, and serve as hot as possible. Time.—2 to f hour to boil the potatoes. Average Cost, id. per lb. Sufficient—6 potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Potato as an article of Human Food.—This valuable esculent, next to wheat, is of the greatest importance in the eye of the political economist. From no other crop that can be cultivated does the public derive so great a weight of food ; and it has been demonstrated that an acre of potatoes will feed double the number of people that can be fed from an acre of wheat. 1619.—TO DRESS SALSIFY. (Fr.—Salsifis a la Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients.—Salsify: to each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Scrape the roots gently, so as to strip them only of their outside peel; cut them into pieces about four inches long, and, as they are peeled, throw them into water with which has been mixed a little lemon-juice, to prevent their discolouring. Put them into boiling water, with salt, butter and lemon-juice in the above proportion, and let them boil rapidly until tender ; try them with a fork ; and, when it penetrates easily, they are done. Drain the salsify, and serve with good white sauce or French melted butter. Time.—30 to 50 minutes. Seasonable in winter. Note.—This vegetable may be also boiled, sliced, and fried in batter of a nice brown. When crisp and a good colour, it should be served with fried parsley in the centre of the dish, and a little fine salt sprinkled over the salsify. Salsify—This esculent is, for the sake of its roots, cultivated in gardens. It belongs to the Composite class of flowers, which is the most extensive family in the vegetable kingdom. This family is not only one of the most natural and most uniform in structure, but there is also a great similarity existing in the properties of the plants of which it is composed. Generally speaking, all composite flowers are tonic or stimulant in their medicinal virtues.