1004 Recipes for Preserves, Pickles and Store Sauces. Time.—\ hour to extract the juice ; £ hour to boil the mulberries the first time, J hour the second time. Seasonable in August and September. Mulberry.—Mulberries are esteemed for their highly aromatic flavour, and their sub-acid nature. They are considered as cooling, laxative and generally wholesome. This fruit was very highly esteemed by the Romans, who appear to have preferred it to every other. The mulberry- tree is stated to have been introduced into this country in 1548, being first planted at Sion House, where the original trees still thrive. The planting of them was much encouraged by King James I., about 1605 ; and considerable attempts were made at that time to rear silk-worms on a large scale, for the purpose of making silk; but these endeavours have always failed, the climate being scarcely warm enough. 2171.—TO PRESERVE MORELLA CHERRIES. Ingredients.—To every lb. of cherries allow lb. of sugar, i gill of water. Mode.—Select ripe cherries; pick off the stalks and reject all that have any blemishes. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes; put in the cherries, and boil them for 10 minutes, removing the scum as it rises. Then turn the fruit, &c., into a pan, and let it remain until the next day, when boil it all again for another 10 minutes, and, if necessary, skim well. Put the cherries into small pots ; pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down with oiled papers, and the tops of the jars with tissue paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, and keep in a dry place. Time.—Altogether, 25 minutes to boil. Average Cost, from 8d. to 10d. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in July or August. The Cherry-tree in Rome.—The cherry-tree was introduced into Rome by Lucullus, about seventy years before the Christian era; but the capital of the world knew not at first how to ap- preciate this present as it deserved ; for the cherry-tree was propagated so slowly in Italy that more than a century after its introduction it was far from being generally cultivated. The Romans distinguished three principal species of cherries—the Apronian, of a bright red, with a firm and delicate pulp; the Lutatian, very black and sweet; the Cacilian, round and stubby, and much esteemed. The cherry embellished the third course in Rome and the second at Athens. 2172.—PRESERVED NECTARINES. Ingredients.—To every lb. of sugar allow £ pint of water ; nec- tarines. Mode.—Divide the nectarines in two, take out the stones, and make a strong syrup with sugar and water in the above proportion. Put in the nectarines, and boil them until they have thoroughly imbibed the sugar. Keep the fruit as whole as possible, and turn it carefully into a pan. The next day boil it again for a few minutes, take out the nectarines, put them into jars, boil the syrup quickly for 5 minutes, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, cover the preserve down. The syrup and preserve must be carefully skimmed, or it will not be clear.