1212 Recipes for Beverages. 2713—RHUBARB WINE. Ingredients.—To every 5 lbs. of rhubarb pulp allow 1 gallon of cold spring water; to every gallon of liquor allow 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, £ oz. of isinglass, the rind of 1 lemon. Mode.—Gather the rhubarb about the middle of May ; wipe it with a wet cloth, and, with a mallet, bruise it in a large wooden tub, or other convenient means. When reduced to a pulp, weigh it, and to every 5 lbs. add 1 gallon of cold spring water; let these remain for 3 days, stirring 3 or 4 times a day ; and, on the 4th day, press the pulp through a hair- sieve ; put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon put 3 lbs. of loaf sugar; stir in the sugar until it is quite dissolved, and add the lemon-rind ; let the liquor remain, and, in 4, 5 or 6 days, the fermentation will begin to subside, and a crust or head will be formed, which should be skimmed off or the liquor drawn from it, when the crust begins to crack or separate. Put the wine into a cask, and if after that, it ferments, rack it off into another cask, and in a fortnight stop it down. If the wine should have lost any of its original sweetness, add a little more loaf sugar, taking care that the cask is full. Bottle it off in February or March, and in the summer it should be fit to drink. It will improve greatly by keeping; and should a very brilliant colour be desired, add a little currant-juice. Seasonable.—Make this about the middle of May. 2714.—WELSH NECTAR. Ingredients.—1 lb. of raisins, 3 lemons, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 gallons of boiling water. Mode.—Cut the peel of the lemons very thin, pour upon it the boiling water, and, when cool, add the strained juice of the lemons, the sugar, and the raisins, stoned and chopped very fine. Let it stand 4 or 5 days, stirring it every day; then strain it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it for present use. Time.—4 or 5 days. Average Cost, is. 2d. Sufficient to make 2 gallons. 2715—SHRUB. Ingredients.—| gallon of rum, £ pint of orange juice, £ pint of lemon-juice, peel of 2 lemons, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2.\ pints of water. Mode.—Slice the lemon-peel very thin and put it, with the fruit juice and spirit, in a large covered jar, let it stand 2 days, then pour over it the water in which the sugar has been dissolved, take out the lemon-peel, and leave it for 12 days before using. Time:—2 weeks. Average Cost, for this quantity, 9s. 6d.