730 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. i529._FRIED ARTICHOKES. (Fr.—Artichauts Frits.) Ingredients.— 5 or 6 artichokes, salt and water. For the batter: £ lb. of flour, a little salt, the yolk of 1 egg, milk. Mode.—Trim and boil the artichokes by recipe No. 1528, and put lemon-juice into the water, to keep them white. When they are quite tender, take them up, remove the chokes, and divide the bottoms; dip each piece into the batter, fry them in hot lard or dripping, and garnish the dish with crisped parsley or serve with plain melted butter. Time.—20 minutes to boil the artichokes; 5 or 7 minutes to fry them. Average Cost, from \&. to 6d. each. Sufficient.—5 or 6 for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. 1530.—A FRENCH MODE OF COOKING ARTICHOKES. (Fr.—Artichauts aux Fines Herbes.) Ingredients.—5 or 6 artichokes; to each | gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cut the ends of the leaves, as also the stems; put the arti- chokes into boiling water, with the above proportion of salt, pepper, herbs and butter ; let them boil quickly until tender, keeping the lid of the saucepan off, and when the leaves come out easily, they are cooked enough. Serve with plain melted butter. Time.—10 to 25 minutes. Average Cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient.—5 or 6 for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. 1531.-ARTICHOKES WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. (Fr.—Artichauts aux Champignons.) Ingredients.—4 or 5 artichokes, salt, butter, about £ pint of good gravy. Mode.—Trim and cut the artichokes into quarters, and boil them until gqnder in water mixed with a little salt and butter. When done, drain them well, and lay them all round the dish, with the leaves outwards. Reduce the gravy, highly flavoured with mushrooms, until quite thick, pour it round the artichokes, and serve. Time.—20 to 25 minutes to boil the artichokes. Average Cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for one side-dish. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. Constituent Properties of the Artichoke.—According to the analysis of Braconnet, the con- stituent elements of an artichoke are—starch, 30 ; albumen, 10; uncrystallizable sugar, 148 ; gum, 12; fixed oil; 1; Woody fibre, iz; inorganic matter, 27; an'd water; 770.