Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. 734 cold water. Then boil the asparagus in salt and water until three* parts done; take it out, drain and place it on a cloth to dry the moisture away from it. Put it into a stewpan with the butter, parsley and onions, and shake over a brisk fire for ten minutes. Dredge in a little flour, add the sugar and moisten with boiling water. When boiled a short time and reduced, take out the parsley and onions, thicken with the yolks of two eggs beaten with the cream ; add a seasoning of salt, and when the whole is on the point of simmering, serve. Make the sauce sufficiently thick to adhere to the vegetables. The onions may be omitted. Time.—Altogether, £ hour. Average Cost, 2s. a pint. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable in May, June and July. Medicinal uses of Asparagus.—This plant not only acts as a wholesome and nutritious vegetable, but also as a diuretic, aperient and deobstruent. The chemical analysis of its juice discovers its composition to be of a peculiar crystallisable principle, called asparagin, albumen, mannite, malic acid and some salts. Thours says, the cellular tissue contains a substance similar to sago. The berries are capable of undergoing vinous fermentation, and affording alcohol by distillation. In their unripe state they possess the same properties as the roots, ana probably in a much higher degree. 1539-ASPARAGUS PUDDING. (Fr— Boudin aux Asperges.) Ingredients.—4 pint of asparagus peas, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoonful of very finely minced ham, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, milk. Mode.—Cut up the nice green tender parts of asparagus, about the size of peas ; put them into a basin with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper and salt. Mix all these in- gredients well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick butter; put it into a pint buttered mould, tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, place it in boiling water, and let it boil for two hours; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour plain melted butter round, but not over, the pudding. Green pease-pudding may be made in exactly the same manner, substituting peas for the asparagus. Time.—2 hours. Average Cost, is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable in May, June and July. 1540— ASP AR AG US ROLLS. (Fr.—Petits Pains aux Asperges.) Ingredients.—To each £ gallon of water 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, asparagus, milk, butter, flour, yolks of eggs, French rolls.