Starch and Floury Foods. 105 This seems a small allowance, but when we remember that it is reckoned as dry food, and that food as we get it is always moist, generally containing half or rather more than half its weight of water, it appears that the food altogether should weigh about forty ounces. The quantity required varies, however, very much within the limits-of health. Every man requires more food if he works hard, and less if he has no work to do. Even doing the same work no two men will eat exactly the same, and it is only possible to calculate by taking an average of a large number of eaters. Generally speaking, more food is required in cold weather and cold climates than in hot. But it is necessary that all these four classes should be represented in our daily food, and in something like the above proportion. If we have too little of any one class we are sure to be ill, and if one class is quite left out we should die, even though we have plenty of other foods. As to the water, there is not much to be said in addition to the remarks in the chapter on Beverages. By whatever name we call our beverages, the bulk of them is water, and were we given but one food we could exist longer on water alone than upon any other, except milk. In every food, even in those artificially dried, there is a percentage of water, and taking foods one with another there is about half water. But the amount varies very much ; thus in lettuce 96 percent, is water; in onions, 91; in lean meat, 75 ; in wheat, 14. Artificially dried sub- stances are ready to take up water from the atmosphere, a fact of practical interest to the housewife, who will remember that oatmeal, maize-meal, biscuits, and such like, soon become flabby and moist if they are left in the open air. It is generally agreed that animals thrive better on moist food than on dry food with water. 214. Carbonates and Salts include chloride of sodium, or common salt, as well as potash, phosphates of lime, iron. Common salt is a necessary food, but the fact is that many persons now-a-days get too much of it in the form of salt fish and flesh. It is the only mineral habitually added to food as such. Potash salts we find in all fresh fruits and vegetables. Probably no defect in diet is more common than a want of these, especially in our large towns. Lime is necessary for the building up of bones and teeth. We look for it in milk for the young, and in whole grains, and we know that it has been missing when we see weak and distorted limbs and broken teeth. Iron is generally thought of as a physic and not as a food. 215. Starch and floury foods are the cheapest and most abundant of all, so that if people have enough of any food they are likely to have enough of these. Over-fed persons are an exception to this rule, for too small a proportion of their diet is starchy.. Bread, potatoes, rice, barley and all the floury foods contain more starch than anything else, and cornflour, arrowroot, sago and tapioca are nearly pure starches. There is much starch too in beans, peas and lentils, though they are generally spoken of as albuminoids, or flesh-forming foods, because of the very large amount of casein that they contain. There is no starch in milk, but sugar, which replaces it. An infant can make no use of starchy food, having no power to digest it. Heated to 200° or 400° starch becomes dextrine, known too as “ British Gum.” The crust of a loaf, biscuit and baked flour all show dextrine. Sugar and treacle are good foods and replace starch. They are, however apt to produce acidity in grown-up persons if used too freely, though children can and do eat large quantities without inconvenience. The fats, starches and sugars a^e often called heat givers, because they are oxydized, or burnt, in the body to Keep up the temperature to its proper heat. From the starches-and sugars fat is deposited if more is consumed than’is