433 Different Parts of Veal. become stiff and hard with age, certain joints are nearly uneatable if they are not cooked at a low temperature with moisture. (6.) Best end of the neck.—For small roasting joint or for chops. Too large a proportion of bone to be economical. The other end of the neck is more suitable for stewing. (7 & 8.) Shoulder or Bladebone.—Often sold in halves for roasting. Sometimes cut into cutlets. (9.) Breast.—Cheap. Sometimes roasted ; better braised or stewed. Veal tendons, served as an entree, are cut from this joint. (11.) Head.—Eaten hot or cold in a variety of ways. Calves’ brains are served as an entree. Besides these joints the following farts of the calf are sold for food:— (12.) Sweetbread.—A delicacy, sold at fancy prices. Cooked in a variety of ways, generally served as an entree. Stomach and throat sweetbread are spoken of; the former is the pancreas, the latter the thymus gland. (13.) Liver.—Often sold with the fry, and cooked with it. As it is very lean, it is usually cooked with some of the inside fat, or with bacon. (14.) Feet.—These are sold by tripe dressers and by butchers, and used for jelly-making, in the place of prepared gelatine, and also to be stewed or fried. " Neats’ feet ’’ are a common article of food with the poor. (15.) Heart.—Can be bought separately, or with the pluck or fry. Liked by many persons ; an economical small roast, and less indigestible than bullock’s heart. (16.) Suet.—Veal suet is more delicate for all pur- SIDE 0F CALp> SH0WING the poses than beef, and may with advantage be substi- several joints. tuted for it in puddings, forcemeat, &c. (17.) Kidney.—This is much more delicate than, and I/rL?ln’ ’ I’ w1'1^ IS preferred to, beef kidney. 7, Breast; 8, Fore-Knuckle. According to the calculation already made, we find that one shilling will buy x lb. and 6 oz. of breast of veal at ninepence a pound, or 12 oz. of veal cutlet at sixteen-pence. In the cheaper joint there may be ex- pected an average of 6 oz. of bone, leaving exactly a pound of solid meat. In the cutlets there may be no bone, there will probably be 2 ozs , leaving 10 ozs. of solid meat. The price of the cutlet is not unusual, though it is high. Anyway it is easy to see that at the price we have quoted, the breast is the more economical purchase, though it would certainly not remain so if the price of both joints were the same.