230 Recipes for Cooking Fish. and cleanse thoroughly; wipe them dry, flour and dip them into egg, and sprinkle over with bread-crumbs. Fry of a nice brown. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Average Cost, Cd. per lb. Seasonable, June to December. Sufficient, 2 for each person. The Gudgeon.—This is a fresh-water 'fi9h belonging to B the Carp genus, and is found in placid streams and lakes. - It was highly esteemed by the Greeks, and was, at the beginning of supper, served fried at Rome. It abounds both in France and Germany; and is both excellent and numer- ous in some of the rivers of England. Its flesh is firm, well- flavoured, and easily digested. the gudgeon. 479—GURNET, or GURNARD. (Fr.-Gournal.) Ingredients.—1 gurnet, 6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly, and cut off the fins; have ready some boiling water, with salt in the above proportion; put the fish in, and simmer very gently for half an hour. Parsley and butter, or anchovy sauce, should be served with it. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, 6d. to 2s 6d. Seasonable from October to March, but in perfection in October. Sufficient, a middling-sized one for 2 persons. Note.—This fish is frequently stuffed with force* meat and baked. The Gurnet.—“ If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused gurnet,” says Falstaff; which shows that this fish has been long known in England. It is very common on the THE GURNET. British coasts, and is an excellent fish as lood. 480.-BAKED HADDOCK. (Fr.—Eglefin Roti.) Ingredients.—A nice forcemeat (See Forcemeats), butter to taste, egg and bread-crumbs*. Mode.—Scale and clean the fish, without cutting it open much ; put in a nice delicate forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Brush it over with egg, sprinkle over bread-crumbs, and baste frequently with butter. Bake three quarters of an hour, if large. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon, and serve with a nice brown gravy, plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. The egg and bread-crumbs can be omitted, and pieces of butter placed over the fish. Time.—Large haddock, £ hour; moderate size, £ hour. Average Cost, for large haddock dressed in this way, exclusive of sauce, is. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from August to February.