262 Recipes for Cooking Fish. dish. Place small pieces of butter over the whole, and bake for half an hour. When they are nearly done, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve on a dish with Italian sauce (see Sauces) poured over. Another plan is to set each piece up in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle the sea- soning over, but without eggs and crumbs, and cover with a sheet of but- tered paper. Bake for about 15 minutes according to size. This is a very easy and very good way of cooking any white fish to be served with sauce. Time.—\ hour. Average Cost, 3s. 6d. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Whiting may be dressed in the same manner and will be found very delicious. The Flavour of the Sole.—This, as a matter of course, greatly depends upon the nature of 'he vround and bait upon which the animal feeds. Its natural food is small crabs and sheli-fish. Its colour also depends on the colour of the ground where it feeds ; for if this be white, then the sole is called the white or lemon sole ; but if the bottom be muddy, then it is called the black sole. Small-sized soles, caught in shallow water on the coasts, are the best in flavour. 560—FILLETED SOLES OR PLAICE. To be- eaten cold. (Jewish recipe.) Ingredients.—2 soles or 1 large plaice, 1 small flask of oil. Mode.—Put the oil into a rather deep pan and lay in the fish, cut in neat fillets; when the oil ceases to bubble, fry them a pale golden brown; then drain. Care must be taken to drain the fish thoroughly as it is to be eaten cold. These small fillets are often used as a sort of garnish to surround a larger piece, or may be dished alone, arranging them as cutlets to lap over each other in a ring, and garnished with parsley and cut lemon. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes to fry the fish. Average Cost, soles, 2s.; plaice, is. 3d. The full cost of the oil cannot be reckoned, as, if it is strained, it will serve for several fryings. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 561.—FRICASSEED SOLES. (Fr.—Fricassee de Soles.) Ingredients.—2 middling-sized soles, 1 small one, £ a teaspoonful of chopped lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little grated bread, salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste, 1 egg, 2 oz. of butter, £ a pint of good gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine or claret, cayenne and lemon- juice to taste. Mode.—Fry the soles of a nice brown, as directed in recipe No. 557, and drain them well from fat, or cook them us above. Take all the meat from the small sole, chop it fine, and mix with it the lemon-peel, parsley, bread and seasoning; work all together, with the yolk of an egg and the