Quickly-made Pudding. 867 1845—QUEEN MAB PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 6 or 8 bitter almonds, or h pod of vanilla, the rind of a lemon, f oz. of gelatine, 4J oz. of lump sugar, h pint of cream, 6 eggs, ii oz. of candied citron, 2 oz. of dried cherries. Mode. —Throw into a pint of new milk the rind of a lemon, and 6 or 8 bitter almonds, blanched and bruised, or substitute for these half a pod of vanilla cut small; heat it slowly by the side of the fire, and keep it at the point of boiling until it is strongly flavoured; then add a small pinch of salt, and three-quarters of an ounce of fine isinglass, or a full ounce if the weather should be extremely warm. When this is dissolved, strain the milk through muslin, and put it into a clean saucepan, with 4$ oz. of sugar in lumps, and half a pint of rich cream ; give the whole one boil, and then stir it briskly and by degrees to the well-beaten yolks of 6 fresh eggs; next thicken the mixture, as a custard, over a gentle fire, but do not hazard its curdling. When it is of a tolerable consistency, pour it out, and continue the stirring until it is half cold; then mix with it ij oz. of candied citron, cut in small pieces, and 2 oz. of dried cherries, and pour it into a mould rubbed with a little oil. Turn out, and serve cold. This pudding is delicious iced. Preserved ginger or preserved pine-apple may be used instead of the cherries, or they may be mixed. Time.—hour. Average Cost, 2 s. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1846.—QUEER TIMES PUDDING. Ingredients.—\ pint of golden syrup, \ pint of water, 2 teaspoonful3 of carbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, flour. Mode.—Mix the syrup, &c., together, and add sufficient flour to make a rather stiff batter; tie it in a cloth, but loosely, that it may have room to swell; boil steadily for three hours. Eat either with or without sauce. Time.—3 hours. Average Cost, id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. 1847—QUICKLY-MADE PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—£ lb. of butter, £ lb. of sifted sugar, £lb. of flour, 1 pin of milk, 5 eggs, a little grated lemon-rind. Mode.—Make the milk hot, stir in the butter, and let it cool before the other ingredients are added to it; then stir in the sugar, flour, and eggs, which should be well whisked, and omit the whites of 2; flavour with a little grated lemon-rind, and beat the mixture well. Butter some small