1340 General Ooservatians on Dinners and Dining. altogether. It removes all traces of awkwardness in one’s domestics ; the children, often much in the way when a dinner party is projected, find nothing to wonder at, remark upon, and perhaps inform visitors about, to the dis- comfiture of their parents. It is now customary to keep the white cloth on after dinner, and to put the dessert and wines upon it, and one may, with perfect propriety, lay at the top and bottom of the table two small white cloths, of a texture equal to the large one, and as much in keeping with it as possible, in case of accidents, such serviet as unsightly slops of gravy from the principal dishes. These would, of course, mar the look of the table in toto, and it is impossible for even the most skilful of carvers to acquit himself of his task without mischances occa- sionally, These little “ accident ” cloths are removed after dinner. TO LAY THE CLOTH FOR DINNER. 3053. According to wliat is to be served so must the table be laid, but there are certain rules that apply equally to all The cloth itself must first be put on straight and evenly, and if at all creased should be pressed with a clean iron over a damp cloth ; next follow the decorations, and when these are com- plete, comes either the footman's, parlourmaid’s, or housemaid’s work of putting on spoons, knives, &c. Everything necessary for laying the cloth should first be brought into the room and the serviettes be ready folded, and it is a good plan to put these round the table first, so that the same amount of space can be allowed to each person. These occupy the space between the knives and forks, and in each should be put either a dinner roll (which are almost invariably used at dinner parties) or a piece of bread cut rather thick. Sometimes the folding of the serviettes will also allow the introduction of a flower or tiny bouquet. Next place the menu cards, if these are used, either one to each person, or one between three and four, if only so many are provided. Many ladies like to write their own menus on cards sold for the purpose, similar to ball programmes, or on etched or hand-painted ones. Very pretty little holders are made of both glass and china, sometimes intended for flowers as well, and these are specially useful when there are not cards for each person, as the menu is shown at an angle at which it can easily be read. The water carafes and salt cellars may next be laid. Of the former there should be at any rate one at each corner of the table, while there should be a salt cellar between every two per- sons. Unless silver salt cellars are used, the glass ones should match the rest of the service. We now come to the knives and forks, and of these it is usual to lay two large of each, flanked to the right by a fish knife and a soup spoon, and on the left by the fish fork ; other knives and forks are supplied with the plates for the different courses. The question of what wine is to be drank at dinner will determine what glasses will be wanted, as the glasses used for dessert are put on afterwards. Supposing, as is so often the case, sherry, champagne, and claret are to be served, put the proper glasses for each to the right side of each person, setting them in CRUET-STAND.