Manner of Cutting up a Pig. 533 Of a bacon pig, the legs are reserved for curing, and when cured are called hams ; when the meat is separated from the shoulder-blade and bones, and cured, it is called bacon. The bones, with part of the meat left on them, are divided into spare-ribs, griskins and chines. Fore-Quarter, (1.) Spare-rib.—Generally roasted. (2.) Hand.—Usually slightly salted and boiled, to eat either hot or cold. (4,) Fore-loin.—For roasting. Hind-Quarter. (3.) Spring or belly.—Generally salted and boiled. (5.) Loin.—The best roasting joint, but rather fat. Large chops are cut from it. (6.) Leg.—The most economical roasting joint in this as in most other animals. It is less fat than the fore-quarter. Used also for raised pies. Besides these joints the following parts of the pig are sold for food :— (7.) Head, also known in various parts of the country as “ cheek ” or “ chopper.” Weighs 5 lbs. to 6 lbs. and can often be bought very cheap. Is generally slightly salted and made into brawn. Can also be collared or boiled. . ... . . . in u xn& ac/vciivnu (8.) Feet, or pettitoes. Generally boiled and served hot or joints. cold. Not unfrequently they are boned and stuffed. (9.) Liver, sweetbread and some of the inside fat are often sold 'spring• 4' Hand- together under the name of pig’s fry. 5,Spare-rib;6,Head! (10.) Lard.—Any part of the fat is melted down and sold in bladders, tubs, or by the pound,1 or pastry making, frying, &c. The lower the heat at which it is melted the smoother and less granulous it is. It is usually mixed with water to melt, and often much water is left with it, so that it wastes considerably if it has to be remelted. Occasionally it is said to be mixed with flour or starch. Much is imported annually from America. It has a lower melting point than beef or mutton fat, and—partly for that reason, partly because it always has an unpleasant characteristic flavour—is less suitable for frying than other fats. It is better adapted for pastry making