Mutton. 479 such were regarded as especially fit for the offer of sacrifice. From this fact we may reasonably infer that the animal still so often met with in Palestine and Syria, and known as the Fat-tailed sheep, was in use in the days of the patriarchs, though, probably, not then of the size and weight it now attains to ; a supposi- tion that gains greater strength, when it is remembered that the ram Abraham found in the bush, when he went to offer up Isaac, was a horned animal, beipg entangled in the brake by his curved horns ; so far proving that it belonged to 'the tribe of the Capridae, the fat-tailed sheep appertaining to the same family. 1056. New Zealand Mutton. —Much New Zealand mutton comes to this country, and is occasionally sold as English. Sheep in New Zealand are grown for the sake of the wool, not of the mutton, and to produce good wool they must not be killed so young as in England. That is the reason why the mutton is generally well-flavoured and dark coloured. It is also sure to be tender and quite free from disease, for it would not answer to import bad meat from a country where good meat had been a drug in the market. The New Zealand sheep are a cross of the English South-Down, and so the •oints are small. The smallest home-grown mutton in the market is the Welsh, of which legs often weigh between five and six pounds, or less. 1057. Mutton.—Within the limits of wholesomeness,mutton varies immensely in quality and flavour. It is said to be in perfection at from three to five years old, but it is the rarest thing to taste any such English mutton ; for no one can afford to feed a sheep for two years to improve its flavour when wholesome and saleable mutton can be produced from sheep a year old or even less. The art of the grazier consists in getting the greatest weight of meat in the shortest time; and all his efforts are directed towards this end. It is for this quality that the large white-faced Leicestershire and Lincolnshire sheep is so much valued. The meat is coarse in flavour and fibre, but it is advanta- geous both to producer and to large consumers. A leg of Leicestershire mutton is easy to recognise by its size, by the coarse fibre of the lean and by the opaque tal- lowy appearance of the fat. The feet are usually cut off, but they are white, and so is the face. Butchers do not cut off the feet when they are black, because the South-Downs, which produce the best mutton, have black legs and faces, and they are left on to show. The fat of the South-Downs is plentiful and white, the lean finely grained, the whole animal small. Seeing the two side by side, everyone would see and probably remember the difference. It is a good rule, if quality is wanted, never to buy large mutton. The small Exmoor and the smaller Welsh sheep both produce excellent mutton. The speckled-faced Scotch sheep are also good. We have already sai l that legs are, in our opinion, more advantageous to the purchaser than shoulders. Not only is the proportion of fat and bone less than in a shoulder, and much less than in a loin, but it wastes less in cooking, owing to it being covered throughout with a skin. For choosing a piece of mutton, see that it has short small bones. What is meant by small mutton is not merely a small piece that does not weigh much. The fat should be whiter than beef fat and less intermixed with the lean. The lean, like that of beef, must be bright red, and where you press with your fingers it should rise up again, not leaving any indentation. 1058. Price of Meat.—In calculating the selling price of any meat, what is called the “ offal,” i.e. the skin and inside, are reckoned as the perquisite of the butcher and pay him for his trouble. The meat must then be sold at the price of the animal when alive, with the middleman’s profit added. By any such rough