684 Recipes for Cooking Game. which the trail should be equally spread. Pour round the toast a little good gravy, and send some to table in a tureen. Time.—10 minutes to £ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. the brace, if plentiful. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable.—In perfection from the beginning of October to the end of January, Note.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, as that shows their fatness. There are three sorts—the grey, green and bastard plover, or lapwing. They will keep good for some time, but if very stale, the feet will be very dry. Plovers are scarcely fit for anything but roasting; they are, however, sometimes stewed or made into a ragout; but this mode of cooking is not to be recommended. The Plover.—There are two species of this bird, the grey and the green, the former being larger than the other, and somewhat less than the woodcock. It has generally been classed with those birds which chiefly live in the water ; but it would seem only to seek its food there, for many of the species breed upon the loftiest mountains. Immense flights of these birds are to be seen in the Hebrides, and other parts of Scotland, and, in the winter, large numbers are sent to the London market, which is sometimes so much glutted with them that they are sold very cheap. Previous to dressing, they are kept till they have a game flavour; and although their flesh is a favourite with many, it is not universally relished. The green is preferred to the grey, b”t both are inferior to the woodcock. Their eggs are esteemed as a great delicacy. Birds of this kind are migratory. They arrive in England in April, live with us all the spring and summer, and at the beginning of autumn prepare to take leave by getting together in flocks. It is supposed that they then retire to Spain, and frequent the sheep-walks with which that country abounds. 1410.—ROAST PTARMIGANS. (Fr — Ptarmigans Rotis.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 birds, butter, flour, fried bread-crumbs. Mode.—The ptarmigan, or white grouse, when young and tender, are exceedingly fine eating, and should be kept as long as possible, to be good. Pluck, draw and truss them in the same manner as grouse, and roast them before a brisk fire. Flour and froth them nicely, and serve on buttered toast, with a tureen of brown gravy. Bread-sauce, when liked, may be sent to table with them, and fried bread-crumbs substituted for the toasted bread. Time.—About ^ hour. Average Cost, is. 6d. to 2s. each. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from the beginning of October to the end of April. The Ptarmigan, or White Grouse.—This bird is nearly the same size as red grouse, and is fond of lofty situations, where it braves the severest weather, and is found in most parts of