jo6 Vegetarian Recipes. walnut oil, also common in France, Italy and Switzerland ; cotton-seed oil, pressed from the seeds of the cotton plant, and exported to England in large quantities, partly to adulterate the dearer kinds of oils, partly for more legitimate use in preserving fish and in frying. It is often spoken of as “frying oil ” by the poorer people, who are accustomed to see it used in cookshops. Poppy-seed oil is seldom seen, but is cheap, nearly tasteless, and inodorous. Palm-oil is used, in the countries where it grows as a food, and, if refined, would be unobjectionable and cheap ; but at present it is imported into this country for manufacturing purposes, and is not refined, as it easily might be. There are many other vegetable fats now available, or likely in the future, with improved manufacturing skill, to become so. Of all the cereals, maize contains most fat, and rice the least. Oatmeal has rather more than wheat-meal, and considerably more than flour. 1455. Albuminoids, popularly described as flesh-formers, are also found, to some extent, in all unprepared foods. Gluten in flour, fibrin in all the cereals, albumen in all seeds and nuts, nitrogen in some form in every plant that grows —these all supply flesh-formers in different quantities. Vegetable feeders never recommend, and seldom practise, the habit of eating very white bread, and so get more flesh-formers by that channel than the rest of the world. But the great stand-by is in the pulses—beans, peas and lentils—which are richer in albuminoids than any other food that is known. Maccaroni and semolina, though made only of wheat and water, are richer in flesh-formers than the white wheat-flour commonly used. Many recipes given here, and also in approved vegetarian cookery-books, use milk and eggs in abundance. These animal foods are not open to the same objec- tions that are made to meat. At any rate, they are highly-concentrated foods, containing much nourishment in a small space, and are particularly rich in albu- minoids. We have already had occasion to remark that it is chiefly from vegetables and fresh fruits that we all must draw our supplies of salts, whether we eat meat in addition or no. RECIPES.—VEGETARIAN SOUPS. 1456.-—VEGETABLE STOCK. (Fz.-Bouillon Maigre.) Ingredients.—2 quarts of water, 2 oz. of haricot beans, 2 oz. of split peas, 1 onion, 1 carrot, £ stick of celery, parsley and herbs, pepper, salt, 5 cloves and a blade of mace. Mode.—Boil in 2 quarts of water for 3 or 4 hours all the above vegetables, spice and herbs. Strain it off. It will keep for some time if it is let to stand and poured off from the sediment. Note.—This may serve as the basis of a good many soups and sauces, just as stock made of meat and bones serves many purposes. All cooks may be assured that if gravy has to be made, and no meat is at hand to make it of, water in which any vegetables have been boiled (except potatoes) will be better than water from the tap or kettle.