158 Recipes for Soups. be found, in many parts, growing by the road-sides. It is also to be found, generally distributed over Europe; and, in Catholic countries, is mostly used with salt fish, in Lent. In Scotland, it forms an excellent dish, when beat up with butter and potatoes ; it is, also, excellent when fried. In Ireland it is found to yield, in conjunction with the hop, a pleasant beverage; and it contains as much spirit as the carrot, and makes an excellent wine. Its proportion of nutritive matter is 99 parts in 1,000, 9 being mucilage and 90 sugar. 318.—PEA-SOUP (GREEN.) (iv.—Potage aux petits Pois.) Ingredients.—3 pints of green peas, 2 oz. of butter, 4 shredded lettuces, 2 handfuls of spinach, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of medium stock, No. 273. Mode.—Put the butter, 1 quart of the pea-shells and lettuces, to the stock, and simmer for £ hour. Now boil the spinach, and squeeze it very dry. Rub the soup through a sieve, and the spinach with it, to colour it. Have ready a pint of young peas boiled ; add them to the soup, put in the sugar, give one boil, and serve. If necessary, add salt. Time.—f hour. Average Cost, is. qd. per quart. Seasonable from J une to the end of August. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—It will be well to add, if the peas are not quite young, a little more sugar. Where economy is essential, water may be used instead of stock for this soup, boiling in it likewise the peashells, and using half the quantity of peas. The Pea —It is supposed that the common gray pea, found wild in Greece, and other parts of the Levant, is the original of the common garden-pea, and of all the domestic varieties belonging to it. The gray', or field-pea, called bisallie by the French, is less subject to run into varieties than the garden kinds, and is considered by some, perhaps on that account, to be the wild plant, retain- ing still a large portion of its original habit. From the tendency of all other varieties “ to run away,” and become different to what they originally were, it is very difficult to determine the races to which they belong. The pea was well known to the Romans, and, probably, was introduced to Britain at an early period; for we find peas mentioned by Lydgate, a poet of the 15th century, as being hawked in London. They seem, however, for a considerable time, to have fallen out of use ; for, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, Fuller tells us they were brought from Holland, and were accounted “fit dainties for ladies, they came so far and cost so dear.” There are some varieties of peas which have no lining in their pods, which are eaten cooked in the same way as kidney-beans. They are called sugar peas, and the best variety is the large crooked sugar, which is also very good, used in the common way. as a culinary vegetable. There is also a white sort, which readily splits when subjected to the action of millstones, set wide apart, so as not to grind them. These are used largely for soups, and especially for sea-stores. From the quantity of nitrogenous matter contained in the pea, it is highly nutritious as an article of food. 319.-PEA-SOUP (YELLOW.) (PV.-Pur<§e de Pois.) Ingredients.—i quart of split peas, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, trimmings of meat or poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large carrots, 2 turnips, 2 large onions,