Mustard Sauce. 337 seasoning of cayenne ; mix it perfectly smooth with the vinegar, adding this a little at a time ; rub down with the back of a spoon any lumps that may appear, and do not let it be too thin. Mustard may be flavoured in various ways, with tarragon, shalot, celery and many other vinegars, herbs, spices, &c.; but this is more customary in France than in England, as there it is merely considered a “ vehicle of flavours,” as it has been termed. 743- MUSTARD SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Moutarde.) (For Fresh Herrings.) Ingredients. I teaspoonful of mustard, 1 dessertspoonful of floun, 3 oz. of butter, 1 gill of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar. Mode.—Mix the flour and mustard, knead them well with the butter, stir in the boiling water, and boil 5 minutes; add the vinegar, and serve. 744- MUSTARD SAUCE. (Fr.—Sauce Moutarde.) Ingredients.—x tablespoonful of vinegar, 2 of dry mustard, 1 teaspoon- ful of flour, 1 ditto of salt, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teacupful of water. Mode.—Beat the yolks of the eggs well and put the butter to dissolve efore the fire. Incorporate all the ingredients very thoroughly, put them into a saucepan, add the butter and stir continuously till it boils. The mixture should be of the consistency of cream ; therefore, if it is too stiff more vinegar or water must be added. Thinly sliced pickles or a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar are an agreeable addition to this sauce. This is excellent with any kind of meat or fish. Time.—About 5 minutes. Average Cost, 5d. Seasonable at any time. 745-—OLIVE SAUCE. (Fr.- -Sauce aux Olives.) Ingredients.—4 lb. of French olives, £ pint of stock, No. 272 • 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—earefully stone the olives by paring them round in ribbons so that they may recover their shape when stoned. Blanch them in boilin- water, and throw them into cold water for 5 minutes, and stew slowly for half an hour in the gravy. Add the lemon and serve. Time.—4 hour. Average Cost, lod. for this quantity . Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish of rump-steak for 4 persons. choosing olives and keeping them fresh there are one or two Fi? a-xr b observed which, though apparently of small importance just make ^rfe5tfnrence -between h*vmg thls delicious and too-seldom-usedJ fruit in perfection, or in a second-rate condition. The best olive to choose is that