746 Recipes for Cooking Vegetables. Cauliflower and Brocoli.—These are only forms of the wild cabbage in its cultivated state. They are both well known ; but we may observe that the purple and white brocoli are only varieties of the cauliflower. 1561.—CAULIFLOWERS WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. (Fr.—Choufleurs au Gratin.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 cauliflowers, rather more than £ pint of white sauce No. 665, 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, 2 oz. of fresh butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs. Mode.—Cleanse and boil the cauliflowers by recipe No. 1559, and drain them, and dish them with the flowers standing upright. Have ready the above proportion of white sauce made very thick, and mixed with the cheese; pour it over the cauliflowers; sprinkle over this some more rasped Parmesan cheese. Brown with a salamander, or before the fire, and serve very hot. Time.—Altogether, i hour. Average Cost, for jgrge cauliflowers, 6d. each. Sufficient.—3 small cauliflowers for 1 dish. Seasonable from the beginning of J une to the end of September. 1562.—CELERY. {Fr.—Celeri.) Mode.—With a good heart, and nicely blanched, this vegetable is generally eaten raw, and is generally served with the cheese. Let the roots be washed free from dirt, all the decayed and outside leaves being cut off, preserving as much of the stalk as possible, and all specks or blemishes being carefully removed. Should the celery be large, divide it length- wise into quarters, and place it, root downwards, in a celery-glass, which should be rather more than half filled with water. The top leaves may be curled by shredding them in narrow strips with the point of a clean skewer, at a distance of about four inches from the top. Average Cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient.—Allow two heads for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from October to April. Note.—This vegetable is exceedingly useful for flavouring soups, sauces, &c. and makes a very nice addition to winter salad. 1563.—STEWED CELERY. (Fr.—Celeri a la Creme.) Ingredients.—6 heads of celery; to each d gallon of water allow x heaped tablespoonful of salt, 1 blade of pounded mace, £ pint of cream. Mode.—Wash the celery thoroughly; trim and boil it in salt and water CELERY IN GLASS.