1526 Recipes for the Use of Domestic Servants. found useful, though not so essentially necessary, when old carpets are taken up and put down again. Work the carpet the length way of the material, which ought to be made up the length way of the room. Nail one end all along, but do not nail the sides as you go along until you are quite sure that the carpet is fully stretched, and that there is no ruck anywhere in the length of it. 3409—TO CLEAN CARPETS. Carpets in bed-rooms and stair-carpets may be kept clean by being brushed with a soft hair-brush frequently, and, as occasion requires, being taken up and shaken. Larger carpets should be swept carefully with a whisk-brush or hand-brush of hair, which is far better, especially in the case of fine-piled carpets. Thick carpets, as Axminster and Turkey, should always be brushed one way. Grease spots can be removed from carpets by means of a paste made of boiling water poured on equal quantities of magnesia and fullers’ earth. This paste, while hot, must be placed upon the grease spots and brushed off when quite dry. When carpets are very dirty, they may be washed in the following manner:—To every 2 gallons of boiling water add 1 oz. of yellow soap and 1 drachm of soda. With a clean flannel wash the carpet well with the liquid; do a small piece at a time and rinse well with clean hot water. When all has been gone over, the carpet should be left to dry. The colours will be greatly improved by afterwards rubbing it over with a clean flannel dipped in a strong solution of ox-gall and water. 3410.—TO CLEAN CARPETS. (Another Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of yellow soap, \ lb. of soda, 1 oz. of nitric acid, 1 gallon of water. Mode.—First melt the soap and soda in an oven; then mix them well in the water. With a clean scrub-brush wash the carpet well from seam to seam with this mixture, and rinse it off quickly with clean soft water. Do only a small piece of carpet at the time, and rub dry with a clean cloth as much as is washed. 3411.—TO SCOUR CARPETS WITH GALL. Let the carpets first be well beaten and brushed to free them from all dust and dirt. Then scour them quickly with a solution of ox-gall, which will both extract grease and refresh the colours. One pint of gall in