„ 7s. od, to 16s. od. 6o 1, h 11 6 „ Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen. enamelled inside ; in wrought-iron, with bright covers, and in copper. IlluS- trations of various saucepans will be found in page 59. Their capacity and prices range as follows:— Description. In Cast-iron, Strong: (а) . With Covers and Wrought Handles (i). Do. with Front Handles (c) . Enamelled, Block-Tin Covers,with Lips (d) . Do. Do. without L ps 2. In Wrought Iron, Strong: («). With Block-Tin Covers 3. In Copper, Extra Strong : (rt). With Covers and Metal Handles (б) . Do. with Lips and Hardwood ) Handles f The prices and capacity of saucepans and of other articles, in most cases, are taken from the illustrated catalogue and price list of Messrs. Adams and Son, 57, Haymarket, London, S. IV. Messrs. Henry Loveridge and Company, Mtrridale Works, Wolverhampton, whose specialties are domestic ironmongery of every kind, and especially tin-ware, manufacture tin saucepans, to hold from ^ pint to 16 pints, and block-tin saucepans, with lip and cover, of the same range of capacity. It maybe as well to explain that Messrs. Loveridge and Co. are manufacturers only, and supply the articles they make to furnishing ironmongers in quantities and not singly to individual purchasers. Their pattern book, however, which contains about 1,500 illustrations of all kinds of brass, copper, tin-plate, papier-mache, and japanned wares, can be seen and looked through at any furnishing ironmonger's in town or country throughout the United Kingdom, or we may go even further and say, in any and every British Colony or Dependency. On the score of economy, intending purchasers should make a point of asking for Messrs. Love- ridge and Co.’s wares and obtaining them, and to see that this firm’s registered trade mark appears on all goods they may order or receive. 100. Boiler or Boiliilfp Pot.—In large families this utensil comes into almost daily requisition. It is used for boiling large joints, hams, puddings, &c., and is usually made of iron. It is made as shown in page 59. Boilers may be had in cast-iron, tinned inside, to hold from 3 gallons to 7 gallons, at from 5s. 6d. to 115., according to size: in wrought iron, with bright cover, to hold from 4 gallons to 12 gallons, at from 165. to 265. 101. The Digester.—This utensil is a kind of stock-pot, made of iron, having a lid which fits closely into a groove at the top of it, as shown in page 59. No steam escapes, therefore, by the lid ; and it is only through the valve at the top of the cover that the superfluous steam passes off. It is a very valuable utensil, inasmuch as by using it a larger quantity of wholesome and nourishing food may be obtained at much cheaper rates than is possible without it, and when bones are boiled in it its action will extract every nutritive particle from them, leaving nothing but the inorganic part of the bones. This utensil, when in use, should not be placed over a fierce fire, as that would injure the quality of the preparation ; for whatever is cooked must be done by a slow and gradual process, the liquid being just kept at the simmering point. These digesters are made in all sizes, and may be obtained to hold from 4 quarts to 16 quarts. The prices of digesters vary according to capacity, namely, to hold 4 quarts, 3s. gd. ; 6 quarts, 5s. ; 8 quarts, 65. ; 10 quarts, 75. ; 12 quarts, 85.; and 16 quarts, 105. 6d. 102. The Stock-pot.—This article, which is illustrated in page 59, as its name implies, is used in the preparation of stock, which forms the foundation of Capacity. Price. From t pint to 16 pints. From is. od. to 4s. 0d. >. ifi 1, 24 „ ,, 4s. 9d. to 5s. 6d. .. i .. 5 .. „ is. 6d. to 4s. od. „ 2 „ 12 „ „ 2s. 6d. to 6s. od. »» * » 24 f, „ 3s. 6d. to 17s. 6d. „ 2 „ 28 „ „ 8s. 6d. to 33s. od.