±6 i Recipes for Soups. fry them in butter; put them in the tureen, and pour the boiling stock over them. Time.—i hour. Average Cost, is. 2d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. 333 —SPINACH SOUP. (Fr.—Potage aux Epinards.) Ingredients.—As much spinach as, when boiled, will half fill a vege- table dish, 2 quarts of very clear medium stock, No. 273. Mode.—Make the cooked spinach into balls the size of an egg, and slip them into the soup-tureen. This is a very elegant soup, the green of the spinach forming a pretty contrast' to the brown gravy. Time.—1 hour. Average Cost, 10d. per quart. Seasonable from October to June. Spinach (Fr. Epinards).—This plant was unknown by the ancients, al- though it was cultivated in the monastic gardens of the Continent in the middle of the 14th century. Some say that it was originally brought from Spain ; but there is a wild species growing in England, and cultivated in Lincolnshire, in preference to the other. There are three varieties in use ; the round-leaved, the triangle-leaved, and Flanders spinach, known by its large leaves. They all form a useful ingredient in soup ; but the leaves sriNACH. are sometimes boiled alone, mashed, and eaten as greens. 334.—TAPIOCA SOUP. (Fr.—Consomm6 au Tapioca.) Ingredients.—5 oz. of crushed tapioca, 2 quarts of stock, No. 273 or 274. Mode.—Put the tapioca into boiling stock. Simmer gently till tender, and serve. Time.—About half an hour. Average Cost, 9d. or qrf. per quart. ' Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Tapioca.—This excellent farinaceous food is the produce of the pith of the cassava-tree and is made in the East Indies, and also in Brazil. It is, by washing, procured as a starch from the tree, ihen dried, either in the sun or on plates of hot iron, and afterwards broken into grains, in which form it is imported into this country. Its nutritive properties are large, and as a iood for persons of delicate digestion, or for children, it is in great estimation. It is less apt to become Sour during digestion than any other farinaceous food, even arrowroot not excepted. 335.—TOMATO SOUP. (Fr.—Puree aux Tomates.) Ingredients.—1 quart of stock, No. 273, 1 oz. of butter, 12 tomatoes 1 onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of crushed tapioca, pepper and salt. Mode.— Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the tomatoes and onions, sliced, cover with the lid and simmer on the fire ten minutes; add the stock and the seasoning; then boil gently until the tomatoes are well ©ooked ; pass all through a hair sieve. Return the soup to the stewpan,