Apparatus for Cooking. 43 leum, and all the vessels, brushes, &c., that are required in applying these things to the different purposes they are intended to serve. It is too frequently the case that the interior of cupboards is papered. This mode of treatment is unwhole- some for any cupboard, but above all tor cupboards in kitchens and sitting-rooms. In all cases the portion of the plastered walls that form the back and sides of cupboards should be painted and varnished, whatever the painter may say to the contrary. 78. Bell Board .—The board on which the bells of the house are hung, according to the old-fashioned mode of bell-hanging, or the indicator that is used with electric bells, is usually placed above the kitchen door, that being the most convenient position, because it is unoccupied by anything else. Indicators of electric bells are properly numbered or lettered ; but the ordinary bells have nothing by which the bell of one room may be distinguished from the bell of another, much to the confusion of servants newly come and who have not yet learnt to recognise the sound peculiar to each of them. To prevent doubt, delay, and possible mistakes, a number or letter should be placed under each bell to show to which room it belongs and for the benefit of new comers a card to serve as a key to the numbers or letter should be kept in the kitchen. 79. minor Fixtures.—These consist of brackets, ledges and small shelves, which may be placed against the walls in any convenient and suitable position for the reception of trays and a variety of articles for which it is desirable to find a special resting-place. Among these stand conspicuous two slips of wood attached to one of the walls at a sufficient height above the chair-rail, in a horizontal posi- tion and parallel one to the other. In the upper of these slips dresser-hooks are inserted, on which are hung the metal dish-covers in daily use. The lower slip receives the lower part of the edge of the dish-cover when hung up, and prevents it from coming into contact with the wall, which it is apt to damage. 80. Apparatus for Cooking, The last, but by far the most import- ant of the fixtures that we are called upon to consider is the apparatus that is used for cooking, heating water, &c., usually known as the kitchen range or kitchener, names which originally had a distinctive import ; but which have lost much of their primary significance and are now applied without much discrimina- tion to cooking apparatuses of every kind, whether the fuel used be coal or gas. "VVe will, however, for the sake of clearness, use the terms kitchen range, kitchener, and gas range or stove, to indicate three widely marked varieties of cooking apparatuses : (i) the kitchen range, being taken to imply a range, either open or close, that is fixed in its place with brickwork, &c., and that is therefore unmovable ; (2) the kitchener, a range that is entirely independent of all its sur- roundings, and which stands, usually raised on four low legs, on the hearth in the recess otherwise occupied by the kitchen range, movable in itself when necessary but virtually a fixture through its weight and size ; and (3) the gas range or stove, like the kitchener in being really movable, though virtually a fixture for the same reasons, but differing from the kitchener, not only in form and in the kind of fuel used, but also in the fact that it need not, like the kitchener, of necessity be placed on the hearth, that the chimney may be utilised as a means of escape for smoke and the various products of combustion ; but may be placed in any part of the kitchen that may be found to be the most convenient for the purpose." 81. The Kitchen Range.—Kitchen ranges may be distinguished as close and open, the chief point of difference between them being in the construction of the fire-grate or box in which the fuel used for heating purposes is burnt. In the open range the fire-grate is uncovered at the top, and forms a cavity, enclosed by the boiler and oven at the sides and back, by a grating of close bars at the bot- tom, and by parallel horizontal bars, about one inch square in section,placed from