934 Recipes for Creams, Jellies, &c. have a striped appearance. For variety, half the mould may be filled at once with one of the jellies, and, when firm, filled up with the other; this, also, has a very pretty effect, and is more expeditiously prepared than when the jelly is poured in small quantities into the mould. Blancmange and red jelly, or blancmange and raspberry cream, moulded in the above manner, look very well. The layers of blancmange and jelly should be about an inch in depth, and each layer should be perfectly hardened before another is added. Half a mould of blancmange and half a mould of jelly are frequently served in the same manner, A few pretty dishes may be made, in this way, of jellies or blancmanges left from the pre- ceding day, by melting them separately in a jug placed in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and then moulding them by the foregoing direc- tions. Time.—f hour to make the jelly. Average Cost, with the patent calves’ feet gelatine, is. 3^. In summer use more gelatine. Sufficient to fill i|-pint mould. Seasonable at any time. Note.—In making the jelly, use for flavouring a very pale sherry, or the colour will be too dark to contrast nicely with the red jelly. 1998.—MARBLED JELLY. (Fr.—Gel6e Marbree.) Ingredients.—1 quart of any clear pale jelly, cochineal, pistachio nuts chopped fine. Mode.—Coat the mould with clear jelly, set a little more near the fire, and divide the remainder into 4 equal portions in 4 basins. Put into one the pistachio nuts, sufficient to thoroughly colour it; to another add a few drops of cochineal, and leave the others plain. When cool, beat one portion with a fork till it is white, then with a fork throw in lumps of each jelly in turn into the mould, and when full pour in the remainder of the clear jelly, set on ice. The jelly when turned out should present a pretty marbled appearance. Average Cost, 2s. 6d. 1999.—L EMON BLANCMANGE. (Fr.—Blanc Manger au Citron.) Ingredients.— 1 quart of milk, the yolks of 4 eggs, 3 oz. of ground rice, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, i£ oz. of fresh butter, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice of 2, ^ oz. of gelatine. Mode.—Make a custard with the yolks of the eggs and half a pint of the milk, and, when done, put it into a basin; put half the remainder of