Lambs' Sweetbreads. 517 another pan Containing the gravy, and let thern simmer till tender. Meanwhile, cut the cold lamb into neat slices, and fry them in butter o’i a nice golden brown. Rub the cucumber through a sieve, return to the pan and mix in a little butter ; then pour on a hot dish, lay the meat on top and serve. A p-uree of spinach may be substituted for the cucumber. Time.—20 minutes. Average Cost, exclusive of meat, is. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable.—Easter to Michaelmas. 1132.-LAMB CUTLETS AND SPINACH. (Fr — Cotelettes aux Epinards.) Ingredients.—8 cutlets, egg and bread-crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little clarified butter. Mode.—Cut the cutlets from a neck of lamb, and shape them by cut- ting off the thick part of the chine bone. Trim off most of the fat and all the skin, and scrape the top part of the bones quite clean. Brush the cutlets over with egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and season with pepper and salt. Now dip them into clarified butter, sprinkle over a few more bread-crumbs, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning them when required. Lay them before the fire to drain, and arrange them on a dish with spinach in the centre, which should be previously well boiled, drained, chopped and seasoned. Time.—About 7 or 8 minutes. Average Cost, IS. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. Note. — Peas, asparagus, or French beans may be substituted for the spinach; or lamb cutlets may be served with stewed cucumbers, Soubise sauce, &c. &c. 1133 — LAMBS’ SWEETBREADS, LARDED, AND ASPARAGUS. (Fr.—Ris d’Agneau Bard6, aux Asperges.) Ingredients.—2 or 3 sweetbreads, £ pint of veal stock, white pepper and salt to taste, a small buncK of green onions, 1 blade of pounded mace, thickening of butter and flo\ , 2 eggs, nearly £ pint of cream, 1 tea- spoonful of minced parsley, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in lukewarm water, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and let them simmer for ten minutes ; then take them out and put them into cold water. Now lard them, lay them in a stewpan, add the stock, seasoning, onions, mace, and a thickening of butter and flour, and stew gently for a quarter of an