Recipes for Cooking Poultry. 622 1313.—GOOSE HAMS. Ingredients.—1 large goose, \ oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of common salt, 1 oz. of coarse sugar. Mode.—Split the goose down the back and rub in the saltpetre, salt and sugar. Let it lie in pickle 12 days in summer, 14 in winter. Rub and turn it regularly every day, then roll it in sawdust and smoke it. Time.—12 to 14 days. Average Cost, 5s. 6d. each. Seasonable when fresh geese are not to be had. 1314.—TO DRESS A GREEN GOOSE. {Fv.—Oison Roti.) Ingredients.—Goose, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Geese are called green till they are about four months old, and should not be stuffed. After it has been singed and trussed, put into the body a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the butter to moisten it inside. Roast before a clear fire for about three quarters of an hour, froth and brown it nicely, and serve with a brown gravy, and, when liked, gooseberry sauce. This dish should be garnished with water- cresses. Time.—About f hour. Average Cost, 4s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August. The Egyptian Goose.—Especial attention has been directed to this bird by Herodotus, who says it was held sacred by the ancient Egyptians, which has been partially confirmed by modern travellers. Mr. Salt remarks, “ Horus Apollo says the old geese stay with their young in the most imminent danger, at the risk of their own lives, which I have myself frequently witnessed. Vielpansier is the goose of the Nile, and wherever this fpose is represented on the walls of the temples in colours, the resemblance may be clearly traced.” The goose is also said to have been a bird under the care of Isis. It has been placed by Mr. Gould amongst the birds of Europe ; not from the number of half-reclaimed individuals which are annually shot in Britain, but from the circumstance of its occasionally visiting the southern parts of the Continent from its native country, Africa. The Toulouse goose, of which we give an engraving, is a well-known bird. T315.—ROAST GUINEA-FOWL, LARDED. (Fr.—Pintade Bardee.) Ingredients.—A guinea-fowl, lardoons, flour and salt. Mode.—When this bird is larded, it should be trussed the same as a pheasant; if plainly roasted, truss it like a turkey. After larding and trussing it, put it down to roast at a brisk fire ; keep it well basted, and a short time before serving, dredge it with a little flour, and let it froth TOULOUSE GOOSE.