128 Soups. soup with blotting or whitey brown paper. When the soup is cold, the fat may be, much more easily though not more completely removed; and when it is poured off, care must betaken not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the vessel, which are so fine that they will escape through a sieve. A tamis is the best strainer, and if the soup is strained while it is hot, let the tamis or cloth be previously soaked in hot water. Clear soups must be perfectly transparent, and thickened soups about the consistence of cream. When the soup appears to be too thin or too weak, the cover of the boiler should be taken off, and the contents allowed to boil till some of the watery parts have evaporated ; or some of the thickening materials above mentioned should be added. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot weather, they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded pans or tureens, and placed in a cool cellar. In temperate weather, every day or two may be sufficient. These materials, with wine, mushroom ketchup, Harvey’s sauce, tomato sauce, combined in various proportions, are, with other ingredients, manipulated into an almost endless variety of excellent soups and gravies. Soups, which are intended to constitute the principal part of a meal, certainly ought not to be flavoured like sauces, which are only designed to give a relish to some particular dish. 256. Thickening or Liasons for soups may be of:— i. Flour, arrowroot, cornflour, bread-raspings and crumbs, sago, rice, oatmeal, barley, maize, macaroni, vermicelli, Italian paste, are all put into soup to thicken it. They all have this in common, that the soups must actually boil to burst the starch granules after they are added. Floury substances must be mixed smooth in a little cold water, milk, or broth, before being added to the bulk of the soup. 2 Eggs must be beaten with a little of the warm liquid, strained into the soup, and not afterwards allowed to boil, lest they harden in tiny lumps, or what is popularly called “curdle.” 3. Blood of hares, &c. is put into soups ; the thickenirg depends upon the har- dening of fibrine by heat. 4. Butter added at the last moment before serving is sometimes called a liaison, but it is in no sense a thickening. Browning is often simply burnt sugar. Burnt or fried flour, onions, and other vegetables or meat are preferable. Onion skins are also useful, as they contain much colouring matter and little flavour. A slice of toast may be used. Most sauces and catsups are naturally or artificially coloured, and serve both for colouring and flavouring. 257. For flavouring, various herbs and vegetables are required. Leeks;, celery, onion, carrots, turnips, parsnips, tomatoes, shalots, garlic, mushrooms, lemon peel and juice, Seville orange, parsley, thyme, lemon thyme, marjoram, basil, sage, mint, savoury, cress seed, tarragon, chervil, bay leaves and burnet are some of the commonest. Celery seed or salt is substituted for the fresh vegetable, and when used its flavour should be corrected by a bit of white sugar. Seville orange imparts a finer flavour than lemon, and the acid is milder. Vine- gar replaces lemon juice; and the flavoured vinegar is a convenient way of pre- serving those herbs and vegetables that are not always at hand. Cucumber, burnet, tarragon, and chervil vinegar are all used. They contain spices of various kinds, and season at the same time as they flavour. Store sauces and catsups are too numerous to catalogue. 258. For seasoning, salt, whole and ground pepper, both black and white, cayenne, allspice, nutmeg, mace, cloves, ginger, cinnamon should be ready. Whole pepper is always used for white soups, as ground pepper makes them look dusty. White soups should be well flavoured, but sparingly seasoned.