352 Gravies, Forcemeats and Sauces. 778.-S PINACH-GREEN. (For Colouring various Dishes.) Tngredients.—2 handfuls of spinach. Mode.—Pick and wash the spinach free from dirt, and pound the leaves in a mortar to extract the juice; then press it through a hair sieve, and put the juice into a small stewpan or jar. Place this in a bain marie, or saucepan of boiling water, and let it set. Watch it closely, as it should not boil; and, as soon as it is done, lay it in a sieve, so that all the water may drain from it, and the green will then be ready for colour- ing. If made according to this recipe, the spinach-green will be found far superior to that boiled in the ordinary way. 779.—HOT SPICE. (A Delicious Adjunct to Chops, Steaks, Gravies, &c.) Ingredients.—3 drachms each of ginger, black pepper and cinnamon, 7 cloves, | oz. of mace, \ oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. of grated nutmeg, i£ oz. of white pepper. Mode.—Pound the ingredients, and mix them thoroughly together, taking care that everything is well blended. Put the spice in a very dry glass bottle for use. The quantity of cayenne may be increased, should the above not be enough to suit the palate. Cinnamon. — The cinnamon-tree (Laurus Cinnamomum) is a valuable and beautiful species of the laurel family, and grows to the height of 20 or 30 feet. The trunk is short and straight, with wide-spreading branches, and it has a smooth ash-like bark. The leaves are upon short stalks, and are of an oval shape, and 3 to 5 inches long. The flowers are in panicles, with six small petals, and the fruit is about the size of an olive, soft, insipid, and of a deep blue. This incloses a nut, the kernel of which germinates soon after it falls. The wood of the tree is white and not very solid, and its root is thick and branching, exuding a great quantity of camphor. The inner bark of the tree forms the cinnamon of cinnamon. commerce. Ceylon was thought to be its native island ; but it has been found in Malabar, Cochin-China, Sumatra and the Eastern Islands ; also in the Brazils, the Mauritius, Jamaica and other tropical localities. 780.—SUPREME SAUCE. (Fr — Sauce Supreme.) Ingredients.—j pint of strong white stock, made entirely of fowls and veal, 2 pints of veloute, No. 798, and £ pint of essence of mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful of bechamel, No. 665. Mode.—Place all the ingredients (except the bechamel) in a stewpan, let them simmer gently for half an hour, after having once boiled up.