General Observations on Domestic Servants, M54 of these learned ways. But these are the exceptional cases, which prove the existence of a better state of things. The great masses of society among us are not thus deserted : there are few families of respectability, from the shopkeeper in the next street to the nobleman whose mansion dignifies the next square, which do not contain among their dependents'attached and useful servants ; and where these are absent altogether, there are good reasons for it. 3219. Masters and Mistresses.—It has been said that good masters and mistresses make good servants, and this to a great extent is true. There are certainly some men and women in the wide field of servitude whom it would be impossible to train into good servants, but the conduct of both master and mis- tress is seldom without its effect upon these dependents. They are not mere machines, and no one has a right to consider them in that light. The sensible master and the kind mistress know, that if servants depend on them for their means of living, in their turn they are dependent on their servants for very many of the comforts of life; and that, using a proper amount of care in choosing servants, treating them like reasonable beings, and making slight excuses for the shortcomings of human nature, they will, save in some exceptional cases, be tolerably well served, and, in most instances, surround themselves with attached domestics. This remark, which is applicable to all domestics, is especially so to men- servants. Families accustomed to such attendants have always about them humble dependents, whose children have no other prospect than domestic service to look forward to; to them it presents no degradation, but the reverse, to be so employed ; they are initiated step by step into the mysteries of the household, with the prospect of rising in the service, if it is a house admitting of promotion, to the respectable position of butler or house-st eward. In families of humblet pretensions, where they must look for promotion elsewhere, they know that can only be attained by acquiring the goodwill of their employers. Can there be any stronger security for their good conduct—any doubt that, in the mass of domestic servants, good conduct is the rule, the reverse the exception ? 3220. Women Servants are specially likely to be influenced by their mistress’s treatment of them, and yet we venture to assert that good mistresses are rarer than good masters, so many of the former lacking consideration for their servants. In many cases they do not give them the help which it is their duty to afford. A timely hint or even a few words of quiet reproof may be lacking when needed, and still more so the kind words and the deserved praise for work well and carefully done. It is a fact that we must take some trouble with our servants. The wheels of domestic machinery will not run well without constant care There is no necessity for a mistress to be continually fussing round and superintending her servants’ work, but she must first make sure that they do it thoroughly and well. Also she must take time and pains to show her domestics how she likes the work done. A strict mistress is not necessarily a harsh one, and for the sake of others as well as herself she should insist upon the daily duties of each servant being faith- fully and punctually performed. Every mistress should know for herself how long it takes for each household task, and it is then easy to see whether or no time has been wasted. It would be a good plan for both mistresses and servants to reckon up the work to be done on each day (allowing a little margin for inter- ruptions and incidental tasks) and put it against the time at their disposal for the performance of the same, and it would be at once seen whether they might con- sider that there was too much or too little work to be done during the day. Should the result prove that there was a deficiency of time for the work to be done