457 THE INFUSORIA takel") of this type arc always present. In the genus Evhelola there are present in addition prehensile tentacles ( Greiltentakel ), which end in a fine point. The exterior of the tentacle is clothed by a delicate peUicle, continuous with that of the body, and formnig in the suctorial tentacles a sheath or tube, from the end of which the sucker protrudes. The tentacles are slowly retractile. When expanded they appear homogeneous ; but in the process of retrac- tion they exhibit a spiral marking, due apparently to creases and folds in the pelHcle, and not to be interpreted as indicating the presence of myonemes. The tentacles are used for the capture of prey, which consists chiefly of cihates. As soon as the sucker-like extremity of a tentacle touches a ciliate it is held fast; the substance of the prey is then slowly absorbed by the tentacle, and passes as a stream of granules down the axis of the tentacle. During this process the ciliate re- mains alive, Avith cilia movin gand contractile vacuoles pulsating, until about haK its substance is absorbed (Fihpjev). In the genus Rhyn- cheta there is but a single tentacle of great Fig. l9l.~Urnula epistylidis, epizoic on Dendro- . TT^^. 7 /T?- soma radians. ^, jB, Individuals with one or two length ; m Urnula (Fig. tentacles respectively ; 0, formation of a bud 191), one or two. Other (g); D, the same seen in transverse section genera bear usually passing through the bud and the macronucleus ° •'of the parent; free-swimmmg larva ; J<, en- many tentacles, which larged view of the single tentacle, showing the may be distributed spii-al striation. After Hickson and Wads- 1 ji 1 1 worth (886). evenly over the body- surface, or, more commonly, occur in special regions of the body or are distributed in tufts and patches. In Dendrocometes the tentacles occur m bunches borne on branches or arm-like processes of the body-waU. Ishikawa describes in the larger prehensile tentacles of EpJielota huetschliana a system of filaments, consisting of fine threads running parallel to one another in pairs and continued into the body as far as its base. The filaments stain deeply with iron-hsematoxylin. According to Collin (877), each such pair of filaments is in reality the optical section of a fine tube. A suctorial tentacle, according to Collin, represents a deep invagination of the ectoplasm, opening at its innermost end into the endoplasm like the cytopharynx of a ciliate. The prehensile tentacles, on the other hand, are special formations of a different kind, simple cvaginations of the body-wall, pseudopodial in nature, and containing from one to three axial filaments, the number increasing with the age of the tentacle.