THE HzEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED I^ORMS 321 serpentine body, probably as an adaptation to life and movement in a brotli-like medium, containing numerous suspended bodies, such as occurs in the gut of an insect, especially a blood-sucking insect, or in the blood-fluid of a vertebrate. LeisJimania, on the other hand, represents an offshoot from the main stem in which the resting, non-flagellated phase has become the most promuaent stage in at least one part of the hfe-cycle. On the other hand, the Hsemoflagellates of the biflagellate type, Trypanoplasma and Prowazekia, stand sharply apart from the uniflageUate genera. The orientation of the body, and of the undu- lating membrane, when present, in particular, is entu'ely difi^erent in the two types. The development in the invertebrate host of Trypano- plasma and Trypanosoma, respectively, are quite distinct in type, neither form passing through any stages which suggest the slightest afiinity with the other. The only feature common to the two types is the possession of a Idnetonucleus in addition to the principal nucleus, and it is questionable to what extent this structure can be relied upon to indicate afi&nity. The large kinetonucleus of Trypanoplasma is very different in appearance from that of the uniflagellate genera ; and, according to Alexeieff (324), it is a struc- ture of quite a different order from the cytological point of view. Finally it should be remarked that it is only in the biflagellate genera that parasitism in the gut of vertebrates is known to occur. With regard to the origin of the forms parasitic in blood, two theories have been put forward. Leger (545) and Brumpt (389) have upheld the view that they were origmally parasites of the digestive tracts of invertebrates, as many allied forms still are ; that in many cases their invertebrate hosts acquired the blood- sucking habit, whereby the intestinal flageUates became accus- tomed and adapted to life in blood ; and that, finally, forms so adapted passed from the invertebrate host into the blood of the vertebrate itself. Minchin (476), on the other hand, suggested that possibly the ancestral forms may have been parasites of the digestive tract of vertebrate hosts, and may have passed from the digestive tract into the blood, whence they were taken up by blood- suckmg invertebrates and transmitted to fresh hosts, acquiring finally the power of being parasitic upon, and establisliing themselves in, the invertebrate host. It must be admitted that all evidence which has accumulated of recent years is in favour of the view of Leger and Brumpt, so far as the uniflagellate forms are concerned. The types denoted by the generic names Leptomo7ias, Crilhidia, and Trypanosoma, form a perfect evolutionary series, beginnmg with monogenetic parasites of invertebrates and cuhninating in digenetic blood- parasites. From the same stem other forms of parasitism are seen 21