THE PROTOZOA njatin except by their respective relations to the life-cycle, at certain periods of which, as will be seen, the nuclear apparatus is entirely reconstituted, effete vegetative chromatin being eliminated from the organism, either cast out or absorbed, and its place taken by reserve generative chromatin. It is only necessary to remark that some authorities speak of vegetative and generative chromatin as if they were two distinct kinds of substance, whereas they are probably to be considered rather as two phases or states of one and the same chromatin. Vegetative chromatin is that which is in a state of functional activity, and which thereby tends to become exhausted and effete in its vital powers, exhibiting in consequence the phenomena of " senility." Generative chromatin, on the con- trary, by remainmg inactive, conserves its " youth " unimpaired, and constitutes a reserve from which the worn-out vegetative chromatin can be replaced. Generative chromatin of one genera- tion may become vegetative chromatin in the next. As regards their distribution in the cell-body, in some cases vegetative and generative chromatin cannot be distinguished by the observer as separate structural elements, but are mixed up together in the same nucleus ; in other cases, however, they occupy distinct situations in the body. Thus, in Sarcodma it is common for the vegetative chromatin to be lodged in the principal nucleus or nuclei, while the generative chromatin occurs in the form of chromidia, as in Arcella (Fig. 32), or vice versa. In the Infusoria there are two kinds of nuclei, which are shown by their behaviour to consist, the one of vegetative, the other of generative chromatm. Chromidia, when present in the cell, may also differ in kind, being in some cases extrusions from the nucleus of purely vegetative chromatin, in process of elimination, while in other cases, as already mentioned, the chromidia, or a part of them, represent the generative chromatm (see p. 150, infra). The nuclei of Protozoa exhibit great variety of structure and form as compared with the relatively uniform structure of the nuclei of Metazoa. As stated already, the constituent substances or structural elements in any nucleus may be distinguished broadly as chromatinic and achromatinic : the former consistmg of the chromatin, the primary and essential element never absent in any nucleus ; the latter comprising various accessory structures, an- cillary to the chromatin, and not all of them invariably present in any given nucleus. Amongst the principal achromatinic con- stituents of nuclei in general must be mentioned the following : (1) linin, occurring in the form of a framework, which stains feebly or not at all by chromatin-stains, and which presents the appear- ance of a delicate reticulum or network, the optical expression of an alveolar structure ; (2) a fluid enchylema or nuclear sap, filling