THE INMJSORIA 433 fected contrcactile mechanisms, enabling the animal to stretch out a long way from the base of attachment, or to retract itself close to it. Sedentary forms may also secrete round themselves a protec- tive sheath or tube. Structure of the Body.—The mouth, or cytostome, is an aperture leading into a longer or shorter oesophagus, or cytopharynx, which ends blindly in the endoplasm. The indigestible remains of the food are cast out through a pore in the cuticle—a cell-anus, or cytopyge, which, though a permanent structure, is usually only visible at the moment of defsecation ; but in some cases there is a distinct anal tube leading to an anal pore, visible at all times. In the Gjonnostomata (see p. 439, infra) the mouth can be closed or opened by a system of rods contained in the wall of the oesophagus (Fig. 184), which contains no^vibratile apparatus ; but in all other A B C Fig. 182.—A and B, Euplotes patella: A, ventral view ; B, dorsal view; G, Euplotes harpa. In all the Bgures : N, macronucleus ; n, mioronucleus ; c.v., oontraotile vacuole; crh, cirri; p.m., peristomial membraneUfe ; F, area containing food- vacuoles enclosed by the macronucleus. After Stein, the mioronucleus added from original preparations. Ciliata the mouth (if present) is permanently open, and the oeso- phagus has no rod-apparatus, but contains one or more undulating membranes. In the orders Heterotricha, Hypotricha, and Peritricha (see pp. 439, 440, infra), the peristome contams a spiral zone of cilia modified in various ways, leaduig to the mouth, and contmuous with the undulatmg membrane in the oesophagus. In the two first of these orders the cilia in the adoral zone are generally fused in transverse rows to form membranellse. In the Peritricha the adoral zone is composed of two parallel undulatmg membranes, and in this order the mouth, together with the anus and the contractile vacuoles, are sunk into a funnel-shaped or tubular depression called the "vestibule" (Pig. 183, V.). The two undulatmg membranes, after describmg a spiral which varies from one and a quarter to five com- 28