THE NEOSPORIDIA 419 as a floating plasraodium in which sporonts arise, each of which produces sixteen spores; it has, however, been referred by its discoverer to the Blasto- genea. Order IV.: Sarcosporidia.—The parasites of this order are con- sidered at present to constitute a single genus, Sarcocystis, with numerous species. In contrast to the three orders of Cnidosporidia dealt with in the foregoing pages, the Sarcosporidia are pre-eminently parasites of the higher vertebrates, more especially of mammals, occurring occasionally, though rarely, in man (see Darling) ; but they are known also to occur in avian and reptilian hosts, though sparingly. On the other hand, no Sarcosporidia are Imown to be parasitic in invertebrate hosts of any kind. In their hosts the Sarcosporidia are tissue-parasites, occurruig prmcipally in the striped muscles, but occasionally in unstriped. In a few cases they are found in connective tissue, but this appears to be a secondary condition in which a parasite living first in the muscle-fibres becomes free from them at a later period. As a general rule the Sarco- sporidia appear to be harmless parasites, which do not make their presence known by any symptoms of disease, and can only be detected by post-mortem examination. Some species, however, are an exception to this rule, and are extremely pathogenic to their host—for example, Sarcocystis muris of the mouse. The extent to which the health of the host is impaired appears to be directly pro- portional to the numbers of the parasite in the body, and conse- quently to the power which a given species may possess of multiplying and overrunning the host. In most species the capacity for endogenous multiplication appears to be extremely limited. In spite of the fact that Sarcosporidia are very common parasites of domestic animals, and have been found frequently in man, our knowledge of their structure and life-history is in a very backward state. As a rule Sarcosporidia present themselves as opaque, whitish bodies, usually elongated and cylindrical in form, encysted in the muscle-fibres of the infected animal, and known commonly as " Miescher's tubes." They are distinctly visible to the naked eye, and often very large. Sarcocystis tenella of the sheep reaches a length of 16 milhmetres, while in the roebuck [Gervus capreolus) cysts of 50 milhmetres in length are recorded. The Miescher's tube, when examined microscopically, is seen to be a body of complex structure, and consists chiefly of vast numbers of sickle- shaped spores-" Rainey's corpuscles "—lying in clumps or bunches contamed m chambers separated off from one another by partitions The whole organism is enclosed by a distinct envelope, often ex- hibitmg vertical striations, and the partitions between the chambers oontammg the spores are contmuations of the envelope. The exact