THE PROTOZOA 130 case of those species in which syngamy has not been observed, there arc three abstract possibihties : first, that it does occur, but has not yet been seen ; secondly, that it is secondarily in abeyance ; thirdly, that it is primarily absent—that is to say, that it has never occurred either in the form in question or in its ancestral lineage. On the whole, the first of these three possibilities is the most probable, though the second must, perhaps, also be taken into account, as will be shown later. So far as a generalization is possible or permissible in the present state of knowledge, it appears that sex and syngamy are plienomena of universal occurrence in all truly cellular organisms, but we have no certain knowledge that they exist in any organisms of the bacterial type of organization. With the passage from the bacterial to the cellular type of structure, syngamy became, apparently, a physiological necessity for the organism, and was probably acquired once and for all. 3. The Significance of Syngamy in the Life-Cycle.—^In order to appreciate the part that syngamy plays in the life-histories of organisms generally, it is necessary to compare briefly and in general outline the life-cycles of Metazoa and Protozoa in typical cases. In the Metazoa the cycle starts from a single cell, the zygote or fertilized ovum, which multiplies by cell-division in the ordinary way. Thus is produced a multicellular individual, composed always of at least two classes of cells—tissue-cells (histocytes) and germ-cells. The histocytes are differentiated m various ways, related to various functions, to form tissues, and so build up the soma. The germ-cells are not differentiated for any functions but those of sex and reproduction, and occur primarily as a mass of undifferentiated cells constitutmg the germen; they are lodged in the soma and dependent upon it—parasitic upon it, so to speak Ibut in a sense distmct from it; they draw their sustenance from the soma, influence greatly its development and activities, but contribute nothing to the work of the cell-commonwealth. Of these two portions of the Metazoan mdividual, the soma is neces- sarily mortal, doomed inevitably to ultimate senility and decay. The cells of the germen, on the other hand, are potentially im- mortal, since under favourable conditions they can separate from the soma and give rise in their turn to a new individual of the species with soma and germen complete again. This type of generation is always found iii every species, though ion-sexual methods of generation may also occur in many cases. In the life-cycle of the Metazoa, as sketched above in its most generalized form, two individualities must be clearly distinguished, the one represented by the soma together with the germen, con-