154 THE PROTOZOA pronuclei is to ho regarded as the equivalent of the division of the synkaryon which took place ancestrally after syngamy. While, however, there is a general agreement that partial karyogamy (conjugation) is to be derived from total karyogamy (copulation), it is very doubtful if the two conjugants in Infusoria represent simple gametes ; it is more probable that the type of syngamy characteristic of Infusoria is derived from an ancestral condition in which each conjugant produced a number of minute gametes (swarm-spores) which copulated (compare especially Popoff, 125, and Hartmann, 116, and see p. 453, infra). On this view the divisions of the micronucleus represent a primitively much larger number of divisions which produced the numerous gametes, and the conjugants themselves are not to be regarded as true gametes, but rather as gametocytes or gamonts. Having now illustrated by typical examples the various forms which the S3aigamic process takes in Protozoa, we may conclude this chapter by a consideration, necessarily brief, of the problem of the significance and origin of syngamy and sex. This is a problem which has a vast literature, and it is only possible here to indicate in outline some of the theories that have been put forward, none of which can claim to be a complete solution of one of the profoundest mysteries of the living substance and its activities. Considering first the fertilization of the Metazoa, it is evident that the union of the spermatozoon with the ovum has two prm- cipal results. In the first place the spermatozoon brings with it a pronucleus, the equivalent of that contained in the ovum, but derived from a distinct uidividual, and therefore possessing different hereditary tendencies acquired from its own particular ancestral history. The union of the male and female pronuclei brings about, therefore, a process for which Weismann has coined the term ampJd- mixis—that is to say, a mingling of different hereditary tendencies in one and the same individual. In the second place the spermato- zoon produces a result which may be termed briefly " developmental stimulus " (Entwicklungserregung)—that is to say, it produces a disturbance in the equilibrium of the protoplasmic body of the ovum which causes it to start on a course of cell-division oft-re- peated, a jDrocess of cleavage which converts the unicellular ovum into the mass of cells which supplies the material for the building up of the multicellular body. It is very lorobable that the develop- mental stimulus is supplied by the greatly-developed centrosome of the spermatozoon, that of the ovum having completely atrophied, apparently, after the completion of its maturative j)rocesses. The introduction of a male pronucleus—that is to say, the process of amphimixis—can be effected only by the spermatozoon. But the researches of Loeb and others have demonstrated fully that the