THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA 339 The Gregarinoidea are classified as follows : Stihorder I.—Eugregarince {wifJtout Schizogony). Tribe 1 : AcepJialina.—Witliout an epimerite and non-septate ; typically, tliough by no means invariably, " coelomic " parasites. Example : Monocystis, with several species parasitic in the vesiculse seminales of earthworms, and many allied genera and species ; see especially Hesse. Also many other genera parasitic in various hosts-—echinoderms, ascidians, arthropods, etc. Tribe 2 : CepMUna.—With an epimerite in the early stages, at least, of the trophic phase ; m one family, Doliocystidce, non-septate, but all others septate, with protomerite and deutomerite, or with many segments {Tcenio- cystis, Metamera). Typically parasites of the digestive tract, most common in insects. This tribe comprises a great number of ^ famihes, genera, and species ; see Minchin f^q. 150. _ " Gymno- (589). The type-genus Gregarina {Clepsy- spore" of Porospora drina) comprises many common species, such Tn^XrTf'*sp?r? as G. ovata of the earwig, G. blattarum of zoites arranged radi- the cockroach, G. polymorpha of the meal- ^^^^ * central -r,r^„w, /■XT'- n n.\ 1 ■■ residual mass which worm (J^ig. 7, p. 9), etc. Other well-known contains a chromatinic species are—Pterocephalus [Nina] nobilis, from -^^^^ Leger and the centipede {Scolopendra spp.) ; Stylo- rhyncJmslongicollis (Fig. 142), from the cellar-beetle, Blaps mortisaga, and many others. The family Doliocystidce contains species parasitic in marme AnneHds. Suborder II.—Schizogregarince (with Schizogony). Various methods of classifymg the Schizogregarines have been proposed. Leger and Duboscq (645) divide them into Monospora which produce a single spore in the sporogonic cycle (example • Ophryocystis); and Polyspora, which produce many spores. Fantham' proposes to divide them into Endoschiza, in which the schizogony takes place in the intracellular phase, as in Selenidium and Ecto- schiza, m which the schizont is a free trophozoite, as in Ophryo- cyslts and Schizocystis ; the aberrant genus Siedleckia is probably to be referred here also (see Dogiel, 606). The present state of knowledge is hardly ripe, however, for a comprehensive classifica- tion of the schizogregarines, and it may well be doubted whether they are to be considered as a homogeneous and natural suborder • nZ'l the families of the Schizogregarin^ appear to be more closely aUied to particular famihes of Eugregarina. than to one another Leger (617, ii.) points out that the family Schizocystidce shows close affinities with the eugregarine family ActinoceplZ^