THE PROTOZOA 420 structure of the spores is still a matter of dispute, and it is possible that there is more than one khid of spore even in the same species of parasite. A remarkable feature of the spores— in some species, at least—is that they are motile Avhen set free : for example, in S. muris. They are also extremely delicate structures, easily injured by external media, in marked contrast to the spores of the other orders of Cnidosporidia. The spores of S. muris, 8. bertrami (of the horse), and S. tenella, reproduce them- selves by division (Negri, Fiebiger, Teichmann). Finally it must be mentioned that the spores of Sarcosporidia contain a true toxin, which was named by Laveran and Mesnil " sarcocystine." Its properties have been investigated recently by Teichmann (25) and Teichmann and Braun (26). The natural mode of transmission of the Sarcosporidia remains to be discovered. It was found by Theobald Smith that mice could be infected experimentally with S. muris by feeding them with the flesh of other infected mice ; but it is extremely unlikely that cannibalism is the method whereby sheep and other ruminants become infected with these parasites. All experiments mdicate that the spores germinate in the digestive tract of the new host; but the delicate nature of the spores seems to preclude any possi- bility of the occurrence of ordinary contaminative infection, as in other Cnidosporidia. In this connection attention should be drawn to the statement of Watson, that the spores are to be found in the circulating blood, indicatuig the possibility of transmission by an intermediate host. In spite of several recent investigations upon the structure and develop- ment of the Sarcosporidia, the subject is in a confused state, even tlie structure of the spores being still disputed. It is therefore difficult to obtain a clear notion of the course of the life-cycle in these organisms. According to Laveran and Mesnil, the spores of S. tenella (Fig. 175) are sausage-shaped bodies, curved, with one end more pointed than the other. At the pointed end is a striated structure representing a polar capsule, and at the blunt end is a nucleus, while the middle of the body is occupied by coarse, deeply-stainmg, metachromatinic grains. Watson also figures a large nucleus near the blunt end of the spore, and places the polar capsule at the pointed end. Negri also describes the spores of aS*. muris and ;S'. bertrami as having the nucleus near the blunt end, while the opposite extremity appears hyaline and homogeneous for a certain distance. Betegh, again, describes a nucleus at the blimt end of the spore, and one or two " centrosomes " in the middle region. Erdmann (790), on the other hand, places the nucleus in the middle of the body amongst the metaclu-omatinic grains, and describes it as consisting of a large dense karyosome lodged in a small vacuole ; she does not seem to be decided, however, whether the polar capsule is at the pomted or the blunt end of the spore. Teichmann describes a large nucleus at the blunt end of the body, and is doubtful as to the existence of a polar cupsule. So far as it is possible to draw any conclusions from so many contradictory statements, the clear description given by Laveran and Mesnil seems to be, on the whole, confirmed. But according to Crawley, the spores of b. nleyi are binucleate; compare those of Qastrocystis (Fig. 179, p. 428). It is not