THE INFUSOKIA 43^ 5. Separation of the conjugants;; division of the synkaryon to form a new micronucleus and macronucleus. Classification.—niQ Cihata are divisible into two sections, which comprise in all four orders : Section A.—Aspirigera. Without a spiral zone of adoral cilia or membranellse. Order I.: Holotricha.—CiUa of approximately even length aU oyer the body, forming a continuous, evenly-distributed coat in more primitive forms, arranged in bands or restricted to special regions in more specialized forms. ^ .,. , 1 r^ T Suborder 1 : ^stomato.—Mouthless forms of parasitic habit. Of alma, Anoplophrya, Discophrya, etc. (see p. 451). Suborder 2: Gyninostomata.—M.outh a simple pore, near or at the anterior pole of the body, leading into a simple, usually straight oesophagus without cilia or undulating membranes, often with a rod-apparatus by which the mouth is closed and opened for food-ingestion. Classified in various ways; three families recognized by Doflem (7): (1) Enchelidce, includuig Holophrya, Prorodon (Fig. 14), Goleps, Didinium, etc. ; Buetschlia, parasitic in the rumen of ruminants. To the family Enche- lidce must be referred, apparently, the remarkable form described by Meunier under the name Gymnozoum viviparum, which is stated to have the following characteristics: The surface of the body bears no cilia, which appear to be wanting altogether in this form ; the mouth-opening is at one extremity of the ovoid body, and contains an extrusible proboscis, used for the capture of prey (see p. 442); the micronucleus is contained withm the macronucleus ; reproduction is by transverse fission, and also by internal budding, producing embryos which may produce in their turn other embryos in a similar manner before being liberated from the parent body, from which they are set free by dehiscence. (2) Trachdidce, includmg Trachelius, Trachelocerca, Amphileptus, Lionotus, Loxodes, Dileptus, etc. (3) Ghlamydodontidm, including Ghilodon (Fig. 184), Nassula, etc. (4) Fmttingeriidai (Chatton, 831-5): Fcettingeria, Perikaryon. Suborder 3 : Hymenostomata.—Mouth usually at the side of the body and at the bottom of a peristomial depression, leading into a short oesophagus never supported by a rod-apparatus, but containing an undulating membrane ; consequently not capable of being closed, but permanently open. Families: (1) Chiliferidce : Leucophrys, Glaucoma,, Frontonia, Colpoda, etc. (2) Paramecidce : Paramecium (Fig. 185), etc. (3) Pleuronemidce : Pleuronema (Fig. 27), etc. (4) Isotrichidce : Isotricha, parasitic in the rumen of ruminants; and other families. (5) Microthoracidce: Microthorax, Con- chophrys (Chatton, 831-5). Section B.—Spirigera. With a conspicuous spiral zone of larger cilia or vibratile membranes leading to the mouth ; oesophagus as in Hymenostomata. Order II.: Heterotricha.—Generally of swimming habit, sometimes sedentary. Suborder 1 : Polytricha.—Body covered with an even coat of cilia. Principal families: (1) Plagiotomidce; example: Spirostomum (Fig. 180). (2) Bursaridce; examples: Bursaria; Nyctotherus (Fig. 9), with species entozoic in various animals; Balantidium, also entozoic. (3) Stentoridce; example: Stentor (Fig. 8). (4) Tintinnidce (compare Entz, 53); examples: Tintinnus, etc. Suborder 2: Oligotricha.—Body-cilia greatly reduced or absent. Families: (1) Halteridce; example: Halteria. (2) Ophryoscolecidce, with numerous genera parasitic in the stomachs of ruminants; examples: Ento- dinium, Ophryoscolex, Cycloposihium.