THE MASTIGOPHORA 273 in the Protoinonadina, and then to divide the order into two suborders ; the fii'st, entitled the Monozoa, would include the Protoinonadina as constituted above, with the exception of the Trypanosomidce (" Binucleata "), and with the addition of tlie Tetrainitidce. The second suborder, Diplozoa, would in- clude only the Odomitidce. This arrangement certainly seems more natural than that which is usually adopted, so far as the Tetramitidoe and Octomitidce are concerned. Order IV. : Euglenoidina.—Larger forms, with mouth-aperture and oesophagus; with a complex vacuole-system opening into the oesophagus ; often with holophytic apparatus, chromatophores, stigma, etc. This order represents, so far as structural compUcation of the individual is concerned, the liighest type of organization among Flagellata. The body may be metaboUo, or of definite contours, with thick cuticle. The free-living A B Fig. 117.—Lamblia inteslinalis. A, Ventral view ; B, side view. N. One of the two nuclei; ax., axostyles; f,.^, fl.^, f,?. flA, the four pairs of flageUa; s., sucker- hke depressed area on the ventral surface ; x, bodies of unknown function After Wenyon (277). forms are either holozoic or saprophytic, if colourless, or holophytic if pro- vided with chromatophores, in which case they may be capable of nourishmg themselves by more than one method. The flagellum may be single or there may be a second flageUum, usually smaller than the prmcipal flagellum ^'S*^*'^^^ du-ected backwards as a trailing flageUum. The attachment ot the flagellimi is of the second type (p. 263), with blepharoplast distinct from the centrosome. Accordmg to Hartmaim and Chagas (62), in Peranema irichophorum the centrosome first divides to furnish a blepharoplast, and tue latter, havmg become completely independent of the nucleus, divides into two, a distal blepharoplast or basal granule of the flageUum, connected by a rhizoplast (centrodesmose) with the proximal blepharoplast or anchoring granule. The authors consider that this should bo regarded as a fourth typo 18