THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 105 contrary, every possible form of nuclccar division is found, from the most simple cand direct to karyokinesis as perfect as that seen in the Metazoa. The nuclear division-processes of Protozoa arc there- fore exceedingly interesting as furnishing object-lessons in the gradual evolution of the mechanism of nuclear division ; but the extreme diversity in these processes makes it very difficult to deal with them in the Protozoa in a general and comprehensive manner in a short space and without excessive detail. Spealdng generally, the mdirect nuclear division seen in Protozoa differs from that of the higher organisms in a number of points which indicate that it stands on a lower grade of evolution. As regards the achromatinic elements, the nuclear membrane is usually persistent throughout the process of division, a circumstance which enables a sharp dis- tinction to be drawn between the portions of the division-mechanism derived from the nuclear framework and the cytoplasm respectively. In many cases it is then seen that the cytoplasm does not take any share in the process at all, but that the nucleus divides in a per- fectly autonomous manner, spindle and centrioles remammg intra- nuclear throughout the whole process. As regards the chromatin, the chromosomes when formed are often irregular in form, size, and number ; they often appear imperfectly separated from one another ; they are not always arranged in a definite equatorial plate, but may be scattered irregularly along the spindle ; and they do not always split in the exact manner characteristic of the nuclear divisions of the higher organisms, but divide irregularly and often transversely. The principal types of nuclear division in Protozoa will now be described with the aid of a few selected examples. We may begin with those in which the division of the nucleus is autonomous, without co-operation of cytoplasmic elements. Division has often been asserted to be direct in cases in Avhich subsequent research has revealed a more elaborate type; never- theless, many typical cases of amitosis occur among Protozoa. In some nuclei of the • vesicular type, the chromatin appears to be concentrated entirely in the karyosome, which may contain a centriole also, and when the nucleus divides the karyosome becomes dumb-bell-shaped, and is finally constricted into two halves, the entire nucleus following suit; as an example of this, almost the simplest conceivable type of nuclear division, may be cited the nuclei of the Microsporidia and allied organisms (Fig. 173, p. 416). A type similar in the main to that just described, but slightly more advanced in structural comj)lication, is exemplified by the division of the nucleus in the schizogony of Goccidium (Fig. 51, F—M); here there is a peripheral zone of chromatin and a more distinct nuclear membrane. After division of the karyosome, the peripheral