THE PROTOZOA 472 4. The foregoing sceptical phase has been succeeded by the positive behef that the true parasitic organism in these diseases consists of certain minute bodies—the Clilamydozoa or strongyloplasms * The chief cliaracteristics of the Chlamydozoa, according to ProAvazek and Lipscliiitz (913), are, first, their minute size, smaller than any bacteria hitherto known, enabling them to pass the ordinary bacterial filters ; secondly, that they develop within cells, in the cytoplasm or nucleus, and produce characteristic reaction- products and enclosures of the cell (their position within the cell is not the result of phagocytosis) ; thirdly, that they pass through a series of developmental stages, and are specially characterized by their mode of division, which is not a simple process of splitting, as in bacteria, but is effected with formation of a dumb-bell-shaped figure, as in the division of a centriole. Tavo dots are seen con- nected by a fine line like a centrodesmose, Avhich becomes draAvn out until it snaps across the middle, and its two halves are then re- tracted into the body. Chlamydozoa have not yet been grown successfully in cultures, but infections can be produced with pure colloid-filtrates, free from bacteria, but containmg the minute bodies themselves. They are characteristically parasites of epi- blastic cells and tissues. As an example of the development of a chlamydozoon may be taken that of the vaccine-virus, which, according to Prowazek (913) and Hartmann (909), is briefly as follows : 1. The infection begins and ends with numerous " elementary corpuscles " (gemmules of Calkins ?), which occur both within and amongst the cells. They are very minute, and can pass bacterial filters. 2. Within the cells the elementary corpuscles grow into the larger " initial bodies." 3. The infected cell extrudes nucleolar substance—plastin—from its nucleus, which envelops the parasites as in a mantle (hence the name Chlamydozoa, from x^°-l^^'>> ^ mantle), thus producing in the case of vaccine the characteristic Guarnieri's bodies, in which the parasites multiply. It is this mantle of nucleolar substance, apparently, which represents the " cytoplasm " of Cytoryctes, as described by Calkins. * The name Chlamydozoa, as denoting a class of microscopic organisms, must on no account be confused with the names Cytoryctes, Neuroryctes, etc., which represent the generic names of the supposed parasites of variola and rabies re- spectively. To those who regard Cytoryctes, etc., as true organisms, the Chlamydo- zoa are merely chromidia or dots of chromatin in the body of the parasite ; to those who believe in the Chlamydozoa as complete organisms, Cytoryctes, etc., are cell-inclusions or degeneration-products of the nucleus. The conceptions implied in the words Chlamydozoa and Cytoryctes respectively are antagonistic and mutually destructive ; if the one is a reality, the other is non-existent. It is altogether incorrect to speak of Cytoryctes, Neuroryctes, etc., as genera of Chlamy- dozoa.