THE SARCODINA 217 forms of simple structure, however, in which no skeleton is present, tlie subdivisions are defined entirely by the characters of the proto- plasmic body and the pseudopodia, which furnish distinctions of very doubtful validity. Not only may the characters of the pseudopodia vary in different phases of the life cycle, as already stated in the case of Ammha proteus, but even in the same phase under the influence of different media. Thus, no two forms of amoeba could appear more distinct at first sight than the Umax and radiosa forms, originally regarded as distinct species. In the limax-torm the whole body flows forward as a single pseudopodium, gliding along like a slug ; in the radiosa-iorm the spherical body becomes star-like, sending out sharp-pointed pseudopodia on all sides. Nevertheless, Verworn showed that the one form could be changed into the other by differences in the medium (Fig. 85), Doflein (238) obtained similar form-changes in Amoeba vespertiliO; and showed that the body-form and character of the pseudopodia were quite inadequate features for distinguishing the species of amoeba, depending as they do upon the conditions of the environ- ment and the nature of the medium. Compare also Gruber (246) on form-varieties of Amoeba proteus. In view of the protean nature of these organisms, it is not sur- prising that much diversity of opinion prevails as to the arrangement of the groups and the exact position of some of their members. It is usual to put a number of primitive organisms together in a group termed Proteomyxa, the members of which probably have more affinities with various members of other groups than with one another. On the other hand, the more highly organized Sarcodina are classified without difficulty into well-characterized orders; such are the Foraminifera, Mycetozoa, Radiolaria, and Heliozoa, though even in these groups there are forms near the border-line and of doubt"ul position. The classification adopted here is mainly that of Biitschli (2), with the addition of some forms not included in his great work, as follows : A. Subclass Rhizopoda. — Typically creeping forms with branched, root-like pseudopodia. I. Order Amoebo5a.—Amoshoid forms of simple structure ; skeleton lacking or in the form of a simple shell. 1. Suborder Reiiculosa {Proteomyxa).—With filose or reticulose pseudopodia, without shell. 2. Suborder Lobosa.—With. lobose pseudopodia. (a) Section Nuda, without shell or skeleton. (6) Section Testacea, with shells. II. Order Foraminifera.—With reticulose pseudopodia and shells.