278 THE PROTOZOA highly differentiated as regards forms and species. The vast majority arc pelagic in habit, and constitute an important element of the plancton-fauna, both marine and fresh-water. A certain number of species are adapted to parasitic life. They are divided into two orders. Order I. : Adinida (ProroccntraceiB).— Primitive forms in which the typical peculi- arities of Dinoflagcllate organization are not fully developed. The body-envelope consists of a bivalve shell without furrows. The two flagella emerge through an aperture between the two valves, and one fiagellum projects freely into the water, while the other twists round it at the base. Example: Prorocentrum. Order II. : Dinifera.—With the typical characters of the subclass, as described above. Families: (1) Oymnodinidce, without a well- developed cuirass—example : Gymnodinium ; the marine genus Oxyrrhis (Pig. 123) is referred to this family by Senn (358); it is holozoic in habit. (2) Peridinidce, Avith a weU-developed cuirass made up of definite plates—examples: Glenodiniiim (Fig. 120), Ceratium., Ceraiocorys (Fig. 121), Peridinium, etc.; Pyrodinium (Plate, 385) is remarkable for its intense phos- phorescence ; at the hinder pole, between the chromatophores, the cytoplasm contains a body, the " Nebenkorper " of Plate, surrounded by numerous oil-drops, which are perhaps the seat of the luminosity. (3) Dinophysidce, oceanic species with the cuirass divided by a sagittal suture, often of extraordinary form— example : Dinophysis, etc. (4) BlastodinidcB, a family created by Chatton (366, 367) for certain parasitic forms ; such are Blastodinium, an internal parasite of various copepods, and Apodinium myceioides, an ectoparasite of appendicularians (Fritillaria). The parasitic, vegetative form, without organs of locomotion, _ gives rise by periodic segmentation of mother- cells to successive generations of swarm-spores, which in their structure resemble Gymnodinium. Fig. 122.-—Peridinium diver- gens : ventral view showing the vacuole-system. c.p., The coUccting-pusule sur- rounded by a rosette of still smaller pusules which open into it ; s.p., the large sac- pusule, or reservoir; both opening into the fundus (/.), from which both the trans- verse fiagellum (<.), lying in the annulus (a.), and the longitudinal fiagellum (I.), arise. After Schiitt, from Lankester. Subclass III.: Cystoflagellata seu Rhynchoflagellata . This group comprises a small number of forms all marine and pelagic in habitat. Their chief peculiarity is that, like so many other pelagic organisms of all classes, the body is inflated, as it were, with watery gelatinous substance, so that it attains to a size which far exceeds the actual bulk of the living substance con- tained in it. In consequence of the secondary increase in size, the powers of locomotion are feeble, and these organisms float more or less helplessly on the surface of the sea. Fig. 123.—Oxyrrhis marina, Duj. P., Peristome ; N., nucleus; f.v., food- vacuoles; ex., excretory mass about to be ejected. After Blochmann, from Senn (slightly modified); magnification 1,000.