418 THE PROTOZOA Stempcll (78G) brings forward a number of arguments, the most cogent of which is the existence of the autocyst separating the plasmodium of the parasite, containing the nuclei of disputed nature, from the tissues of the host. The most recent investigations of Awerinzew and Termor confirm com- pletely Stempell's interpretation of the cysts of Olugea anomala ; compare also Weissonberg. These authors find nuclei of various sizes in the protoplasm of the cyst, larger or smaller. The larger nuclei are found in the outer, non- vacuolated protoplasmic layer of the Glugea ; they grow in length and become sausage-shaped, and are ultimately segmented into smaller iiucloi, which may form chains at their first origin, like the meronts of Nosema and other forms. In this way arise the smaller nuclei, which either become sporonts, or remain as vegetative nuclei in the protoplasmic walls of the vacuoles containing the spores, where they ultimately degenerate and break up. The sporonts are stated to arise in toto from nuclei, -without visible participation of the protoplasm of the cyst; they become enclosed separately in vacuoles, within which each sporont forms a cluster of spores. Thus, in older cysts the central part of the body becomes divided by fine protoplasmic partitions into a mass of separate chambers or vacuoles, each containing ripe spores. Glugea anomala is to be regarded, therefore, as a colonial organism in which meronts and sporonts, homologous with those of Nosema, etc., he embedded in the protoplasm of their own cyst—the meronts in the peripheral zone of growth, the sporonts and spores in the central protoplasmic region of the cyst. Classification.—The two types of the trophic phase that have been de- scribed in the foregomg paragraphs have been utilized by Perez (779) to sub- divide the Microsporidia into two suborders, as given below. Stempell (786), on the other hand, divides the group into three families; the un- certainty that prevails at present with regard to the exact structure of the trophic phases in some forms is a hindrance to finality in the classification of this order. SuBOEDEK I.: ScHizOGENEA (seu Oligosporea).—The principal trophic phase is a iminucleate meront which multiphes by fission, and from which the sporont fhially arises. Several genera, characterized by the number .of spores produced by the sporont: One spore, Nosema ; two spores, Perezia ; four spores, G-urleya ; eight spores, Thdohania ; sixteen spores, Duboscqia (see below); n spores, Pleistophora ; but Stempellia (Leger and Hesse, 775), for S. mutabilis, parasite of the fat-body of Ephemerid larvse, produces spores to the number of eight, foui", two, or one indifferently; Ociosporea, the species of which are parasitic in Muscidce, produces eight spores in one species, one in another. These anomahes indicate that the classification by the number of spores produced by the sporont is purely artificial (Chatton and Krempf). Telomyxa glugei- formis (Leger and Hesse), also from the fat-body of Ephemerid larva;, pro- duces eight, sixteen, or n spores, and stands apart from all other known Microsporidia in possessmg two polar capsules in the spore. SuBOKDEB II.: Blastogenea (seu Polysporea).—The principal trophic phase is a multinucleate plasmodium producing sporonts by internal cleavage ; example : Olugea. To this section, also, the peculiar form Ilyxocysti^ has been referred, which was discovered by Mrazek in the body-cavjty of Ohgo- chfBtes. Myxocystis occurs in the form of large masses floating freely m the body-cavity, each mass remarkable for an envelope composed of a fur of vertical filaments, not unhke stiff cilia, and enclosing nuclei and spores in various stages of development. According to the most recent investigations of Mrazek, however, each of these masses represents in reality a lymphocj^te containing numerous parasites, which multiply and form spores, and provoke a great hypertrophy of the host-cell, accompanied by multiplication of its nucleus Hence the true Mygcocystis is an intracellular parasite reterabie, apparently, to the order Schizogenea, and characterized chiefly by the peculiar form of its spores. Duboscqia legeri, Perez (780), from the body-cavity of Termes lucifugus, is perhaps an organism of similar nature; it is descnoea