POLYMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES 175 tation to this condition, tlic female gametocyte ceasing to divide and becoming a single macrogamcto, while the male gametocyte produced a swarm of minute, motile microgametes. Only in a few Coccidia, exemphfied by the genus Adelea (Fig. 154), did the gametocytes acquire the habit of association before forming gametes, a habit which led in this case to a reduction of the number of micro- gametes produced to four, of which one fertilizes the macrogamete, while the other three perish. It is clear that the formation of microgametes in close proximity to the macrogamete increases vastly the chance of the gametes finding each other, and renders unnecessary the production of a swarm of microgametes. In the gregarines, on the other hand, the gametocytes acquired the habit of associating and forming their gametes in a common cyst. Under these circumstances it becomes a certainty that a gamete of either sex wiU find a partner if the gametes of each sex are in equal numbers. Consequently there is seen in gregarines a progressive tendency, illustrated by the examples cited above, to disappearance of those characters of the gametes which are an adaptation to the necessity of the sexes coming together, culminating in production of gametes of opposite sexes which are perfectly similar. On this view the isogamy seen in many gregarines is a secondary condition brought about by the gradual obHteration of adaptive differences between the gametes of opposite sexes, under circumstances which render such differences unnecessary. The comparison of the gamete-formation in different species of gregarines furnishes an instance of a progressive levelluig-down of structural differentia- tion of gametes, under conditions in wloich no such differentiation is required until an anisogamy undoubtedly primitive has been reduced secondarily to a perfect isogamy. This has led to the view expressed in many quarters that anisogamy is m all cases a primitive, isogamy a secondary, condition ' The case of the gregarines is by no means adequate, however, to support so sweeping a generalization; the only conclusion that can be drawn from it is that adaptive differences tend to disappear when the conditions to which thev are an adaptation no longer exist; and the very fact that the obvious structural differentiation between the gametes vanishes in such a case is of itself a proof that such differentiation is not the expression of intrinsic constitutional differences between the gametes, for such differences could not be annihilated merely by changed conditions of environment ciuuinuatea rlJiir """"l ^ '''' anisogamy in the form of visible structural t^l lZT I f^' gametes of opposite sexes must have been acquSTd very early by gametes as an adaptation to their functions. On the other hand, It IS highly improbable, to say the least, that the earliest gLetes aiiterentiated. it must, of course, be postulated that the gametes nosses^ such m rinsic constitutional differences as would account for thSehav our- that IS to say then: mutual attraction and union ; and in this sense aSsoSw may be considered as a universal and primitive phenomenon. But the numEe^ hlTn gametes are perfectly isogamous, as regards Srstrue tural or other differences, is a sufficient proof that purely consti^tu?i^n^l :?Sgitr "^^^^^^^^'^ ^^^^^^^ - l-4tibt dXtlnS