THE PROTOZOA 330 portion of the body develops into an cpimerite which may acquire a large size and a complicated structure. Originally attached to one cell, which it destroys, the epimerite may acquire a secondary attachment to other cells of the epithelium, which in this case are not injured by it, as in Pterocephalus. Ultimately the epimerite breaks oif, and the body of the sporont drops into the cavity of the digestive tract. In some cases (Pyxinia) the early attached stages may free themselves from the epithelium several times, and attach themselves again. 3. When liberated from the host-cell, the trophozoite grows into the adult sporont, M^hich, as its future history shows, is a gamont or gametocyte. A remarkable feature of gregarines at this stage is the tendency to associate together (Fig. 7), a habit from which the name Gregarina is itself derived. In some cases quite a number of individuals may adhere to one another in strings ; such associa- tions, known as " syzygies," are, however, of a temporary nature, passing flirtations, as it were, which have no significance for the life-cycle or development. On the other hand, a true association of individuals destined to form gametes always, apparently, occui-s at one time or another in the life of the sporont. In the majority of cases, however, the sexual association does not take place till the end of the trophic phase, when the sporont is full-grown and ripe for reproduction. But in a number of instances the associa- tion takes place early in the trophic phase, between quite young free trophozoites ; and " neogamous " association of this kind may lead to almost complete fusion of the bodies of the two individuals, only their nuclei remaining separate, thus producing the appear- ance of a binucleate trophozoite (Fig. 70, p. 128). In general, the two trophozoites which associate are perfectly similar in appearance, and exhibit no differentiation ; this is so in all cases where they pair side by side. In some cases where there is an early association end to end—that is to say, where one sporont attaches itself by its protomerite to the deutomerite of another (Fig. 7, p. 9), as is common in polycystid forms—the two sporonts may be differentiated one from the other. In Didy- mophyes, for instance, the protomerite of the posterior individual disappears ; in Ganymedes the two sporonts are held together by a ball-and-socket joint (Huxley). It is not known whether these differences stand in any constant relation to the sex of the sporonts. In Stylorhynchus the two partners attach themselves to one another by their anterior extremities (Leger, 614). 4. As soon as growth is completed, the reproductive phases are in iated by the formation of a common cyst round the two asso- ciated sporonts, which together form a spherical mass (Fig. 144, a). The parasite is now quite independent of its host; it is, in fact, a