75 THE NUCLEUS nucleus consists of a Large mass of chromatin suspended m the nuclear sap. In some cases no other structural elements can be made out; in others the nuclear sap contains granules of peripheral chromatin varying in size from the most minute and scarcely visible particles to distinct grains. For a simple nucleus of this type the term " protokaryon " has been proposed ; it is ]ust such a nucleus as may be imagined to have arisen by a concentration of chromidiosomes at one spot in the cell-body, and m many cases such nuclei can be seen to be formed actually in this manner ihe kinetonucleus of trypanosomes may be considered as a nucleus of tliis type in which the single mass of dense cliromatm fills almost or quite completely the space in which it lies. In other eases there may be a clump of chromatin-grains more or less equal m size, filling the nuclear cavity, as in the nucleus of haemogregarines. When there are numerous grains of chromatin, those placed super- ficially may be united to form a limiting layer which may be termed a "false" or "chromatinic" membrane, in distinction to a true nuclear membrane, which is an achromatinic structure. Even in nuclei of the most simple type, however, substances or structures accessory to the chromatin are probably always present. In the first place, it is very probable that the grain or grains of chromatin do not lie loosely and freely in the nuclear vacuole, but are suspended in it, in all cases, by a delicate achromatinic frame- work, presentmg the appearance of a fine network or reticulum, at the nodes of which the chromatin-grains are lodged. It is true that in many of the minute and primitive forms no such framework has been made out, and is believed by many observers to be absent ; but on that view it is difiicult to account for the definite position of the chromatin, its changes of position during division, and the frequent appearance, during this process, of an achromatinic spindle, phenomena that may be noted even in the simplest cases. The achromatinic framework is often very fine and delicate, and its substance stains feebly or not at all with the colouring matters commonly employed in microscopical technique ; hence it is very probable that it has often been overlooked in cases where it is really present. When there is but a single mass of chromatin, or one grain very much larger than all the others, the achromatinic reticulum presents the appearance of very delicate tlireads of linin radiating from the principal mass of chromatin to the periphery. When, on the other hand, there are numerous grains more or less equal in size, the reticulum is seen as fine lines passing from each grain of chromatin to each of the grains adjacent to it. In all probability the apparent " threads " of the reticulum are but the optical expression of the walls or partitions separating alveoli, and there is no reason for considering the achromatinic reticulum or