251 THE SARCODINA and extracapsular regions of the body. The intracapsular medulla contains the nucleus or nuclei, and is the seat of reproductive processes. The extracapsular cortex is the seat of assimilation, excretion, food-capture, and of such locomotor processes as these organisms are able to perform, consisting chiefly of rising or sinking in the water by means of changes in a hydrostatic apparatus presently to be described. The Radiolaria are an exceedingly abundant group represented by a great number of species both at the present time and in past ages ; over vast tracts of the ocean-floor their skeletons are the principal, almost the sole constituents of the ooze; and the same must have been true in past times, since in many geological deposits the rocks are composed of the same materials. Every microscopist is familiar with their skeletons, which on account of their beauty and variety of form are favourite objects for microscopic study and demonstration. Corresponding with the variety of forms and species, the internal structure shows a range of variation and differentiation which it is impossible to deal with adequately in a short space ; it must suffice, therefore, to describe here the main structural peculiarities of this group in a general manner, and to indicate briefly the principal variations of structure which are of importance for the classification of the group. For further information the reader must be referred to the larger treatises and special monographs. Structure.—The central capsule, absent in rare cases, may be a thin, delicate structure, visible only after treatment with reagents, or may be fairly thick. In homaxon forms it is generally spherical, but may assume various shapes correlated with the general body- form, and even may be lobed or branched. It is perforated by openings which place the intracapsular protoplasm in communica- tion with the extracapsular ; the openings may take the form of fine pores scattered evenly over the whole surface (Peripylaria) ; of similar pores aggregated into localized patches, pore-areas or pore- plates (Acantharia) ; of a single pore-plate at one pole of an asym- metrical capsule (Monopylaria, Fig. 106) ; or of one principal and two lateral apertures (Tripylaria). The intracapsular protoplasm contains the nuclear apparatus, either one nucleus of very large size or a number of smaller nuclei (Fig. 105). In addition, various bodies of metaplastic nature, serving as reserve-material for the reproductive processes, are found in this region, in the form of fat-globules, oil-drops, concre- tions, crystals, etc. The extracapsular region consists of three zones, from within outwards : (1) an assimilative layer or matrix immediately sur- rounding the capsule ; (2) a vacuolated layer, known as the " cal- ymma," hydrostatic in function ; (3) a protoplasmic layer from which the pseudopodia arise. 1. The assimilative layer contains pigment, representing ex- cretory substances and ingested food-material in the shape of small