268 THE PROTOZOA are a certain number of well-defined orders and families characterized by the possession in common of certain foaturqs of organization which leave no doubt as to their taxonomic homogeneity. On the other hand, there are a large number of primitive forms whose characteristics are mainly of a negative order, and of which the affinities are in consequence vague and uncertain, the systematic position debatable. There is, moreover, frequently an element of uncertainty, in the ease of many forms, as to whether they represent truly specific adult forms, or merely developmental stages of some other species of the Flagellata or Sarcodina. PLnally there are a certain number of species and genera concerning which it is still debated whether they should be assigned to the Mastigophora or some other class of Protozoa. Hartmann and Chagas (62) have proposed to utilize the relations of the flagellar to the nuclear apparatus for systematic classification of the Flagellata,. as suggested also by Prowazek (354). But, apart from the fact that these relations have as yet been investigated in very few flagellates, and that in such minute objects the details arc very difficult to make out and liable to be a subject of dispute, it may be doubted whether these points of structure are sufficiently constant to be of classificatory value in this subclass, since they appear to vary considerably in alhed forms. Thus in Copromonas subtilis, according to Dobell (335), the blepharoplast persists through division- phases, and divides independently of the nucleus ; but in C. major, according to Berliner, the old blepharoplast and flagellum are lost at each division, and a new kepharoplast, from which the new flagellum grows out, is formed by division of the nuclear centriole in each daughter-individual. Again, the third type of flagellar insertion (p. 263) is found in the TryjMnosomidcB, allied to the Cercomonadidce, and in the trypanoplasms, which belong to the family Bodonidce, as shown in the next chapter. Classification by these characters is, therefore, at least premature, if not fallacious. Compare also Senn (358). The classification adopted hero is in the main that of Doflein (7), with certain modifications. For convenience a number of forms are put together in the Pantastomina, without, however, claiming that this order is anythmg more than a cataloguer's makeshift for disposing of a number of forms of dubious position and uncertain affinities. Order I. : Pantastomina.—Holozoic, with no definite mouth-openmg; food-particles ingested at any point on the surface of the body. Suborder 1 : Rhizomastigina.—Body amoeboid ; food captured and mgested by means of pseudopodia. i . j.i • Several genera, only known as yet from fresh water, arc referred to this very interesting group ; such arc Mastigamoeba, F. E. Schulze, Mastigina, Frenzel (Fig. 38), and Mastigdla. Frenzel (Fig. 40), distinguished from oiie another by the nature of their amoeboid movement and the characters of their pseudopodia. In appearance the species resemble amcebss which possess a long and well-developed flageUum, or in Dimastigammba two, m Tnmastig- amceba (Whitmore, 280) three flagella. Locomotion and food-capture are carried on for the most part as in an amoeba, and the flagellum appears to function chiefly as a tactile organ in the adult mastigamoeba-phase ; m the young monad-phase, on the other hand, the flagellum is the sole organ of locomotion and food-capture, as in an ordinary flagellate. The relation of the flagellum to the nucleus is of Type 1 described f /P; ^f ^), ^ s ngle centriole which fimctions both as centrosome and blepharoplast; in M^f S^^^ and Mastigamoeba the flagellum arises from the nucleus Type la); aella the origin of the flagellum is distmct from the nucleus (Type lb). Ihe fife cycle of Mastigdla is clescribed above (p. 265). In many J;^'^P^^'f^lly in the formation of secondary gamete-nuclci from chromidu^ the d^^^^^ ment resembles more that of the Sarcodina than that of tlie Fl^'-gel'^'t?'' bv many authorities the affinities of the Rhizomastigma ^^e considered to be ShTS the flrst of these two classes. The ^^f^S^-'^.^^TSZ^ tliP f riip fl'iffpUatcs with the Proteomyxa and Mycetozoa ; and if the nagciium Ite lost fn't^^^^^^^ they would be classed in the Sarcodina without hesitation.