138 THE PROTOZOA from doubt, and in any case parthenogenesis seems to be of much rarer occurrence among Protozoa than among Metazoa.* Autogamy, on the other hand, is a phenomenon which has been frequently observed m Protozoa, chiefly, though not exclusively, among parasitic forms ; it may be defined as syngamy in which the two gametes, or at least the two pronuclei, that undergo fusion are sister-individuals derived by fission of the same parent cell or nucleus. Hartmann (116) has brought together the many cases of autogamy known to occur among Protozoa and other Protist organisms, and has classified them under a complex terminology. It is sufficient here to mention two typical cases, those, namely, of Actinosphcerium and Entamoeba coli, made Icnown by R. Hertwig (64) and Schaudinn (131) re- spectively. In Actinosphcerium an ordinary indi- vidual (Fig. 3) be- comes encysted as a multinucleate "m other-cys t," which becomes di- vided up into a num- ber of uninucleate "primary cysts," after absorption of about 95 per cent, of the nuclei. originally present. Each pri- mary cyst then di- vides completely into two distmct cells— " secondary cysts." Each secondary cyst then goes through a process of nuclear re- duction (see below), after which it is a gamete ; the two gametes then fuse completely, cell and nucleus, to form the zygote. * Prowazek (557) has described in Herpetomonas viuscm-domesticce a process interpreted by him as parthenogenesis (" etheogenesis ") of male individuals, but the correctness both of his observations and of Ms interpretations are open to the gravest doubt. According to Flu (536), the objects to which Prowazek gave this interpretation are in reality stages in the life-history of a quite distnict organism named by Flu Odosporea muscce-domesticce, and now referred to tlie Microsporidia. It is greatly to be deprecated that interpretations of such un- certain validity should bo used, as has been done, to support general theories nx the discussion of tlie problem of syngamy. Fig. 73.—Autogamy in Entamceha coli. A, The amoeba at the beginning of encystation with a single nucleus ; B, the nucleus dividing; G, the two daughter-nuclei throwing off chromidia; a space has appeared be- tween them ; D, each nucleus has formed two re- duction-nuclei, winch are being absorbed ; E, a resistant cyst-membrane has been secreted ; the partial division in the protoplasm has disapi^cared, and the two reduced nuclei arc each dividing into two ; F, each daughter-nucleus of the two divisions in the last stage has fused with one of the daughter- nuclei of the other division to form two synkaiya. After Hartmann (116), drawn by him from the de- scription given by Schaudinn (131).