THE PROTOZOA 244 filamentous pseudopodia, by means of which it is able to digest food in the ordmary holozoic manner. The body is a plasjnodium containing, in addition to numerous nuclei, chromatophores, and peculiar "oat-shaped bodies," "spmdies," or " physodes," stated to consist of phloroglucin. The cyst- onvelopo consists of cellulose, and has a stratified structure. In addition to reproduction by fission (plasmotomy), Chlamydomyxa appears to form flagel- late swarm-spores, possibly gametes. Labyrinthula occurs in marine and fresh water. In the active state it has the form of a network of filaments, 1 millimetre or so in extent, over which travel a great number of " units," each a nucleate cell or amcebula, sometimes brightly coloured. When dried, each unit encysts and hatches out again separately. The units multiply by fission. They were formally compared erroneously with the " spindles " of Chlamydomyxa. Lister (298) regards Labyrinthula as a colonial organism of which the units remam in connection by their pseudopodia. He considers these two genera as related in one direction to certain members of the Foraminifera {Gromiidce), in other drections to the Heliozoa and the Proteomyxa. V. Heliozoa. The Heliozoa are characterized, as a group, by their spherical form and stiff, radiating pseudopodia, whence their popular name of " sun-animalcules." As in the case of the Radiolaria, these peculiarities of form are generally correlated with a floating habit of life, though in a few cases the animal is sedentary and attached to a firm support. In contrast with the Radiolaria, a "central capsule" (p. 250) is absent from the body-structure. A skeleton may be present or absent. The majority of species inhabit fresh water, but a few are marine. General Characters.—As in other orders of Sarcodina, a concise statement of the characteristic features of the group is rendered difficult by the occurrence of border-line forms, of which the exact position is doubtful. It is best, therefore, to consider first typical forms of which the position is incontrovertible, and then those which link the Heliozoa to other groups of Protozoa. The body-protoplasni exhibits commonly a vacuolated, frothy structure, with distinct cortical and medullary regions. The cor- tical zone, distinguished by vacuoles of larger size, disposed in a radiating manner, is regarded as ectoplasm ; the medullary region, with smaller vacuoles irregular in arrangement, as endoplasm; but it is open to doubt if these two regions correspond truly to the ectoplasm and endoplasm of an amoeba. The cortex contains the contractile vacuoles, and gives off the pseudopodia, which are typically stifE, straight, and filamentous, ending in a sharp point and supported by an axial organic rod (p. 48) ; but in some genera the supporting axis is wanting. In the medulla are lodged the nuclear apparatus, the food-vacuoles, and frequently also symbiotic organisms, which are probably in most cases vegetative, non- flagellate phases of holophytic flagellates (Chlamydomonads). As regards the nuclear apparatus, there are two types of arrange-