THE PROTOZOA ISO nucleate by formation of secondary nuclei from the chromidia, as described above (Fig. 32, p. 67). The secondary nuclei are entirely distinct in their origin from the primary nuclei, which degenerate Avhen the secondary nuclei are formed. A multinucleate Arcella may reproduce itself by binary fission after division of each secon- dary nucleus by karyokinesis ; of each pair of secondary daughter- nuclei, one goes to one daughter-^rceMa, the other to the other, so that each daughter-ylrceWa has the same number of nuclei exactlj'' (Hertwig, 65). Gemmation takes place in multinucleate forms containing a number of secondary nuclei. A portion of the body-protoplasm becomes centred round each secondary nucleus, and thus a small cell is formed, which becomes amoeboid, quits the parent-body, and either grows directly into an adult Arcella by the successive stages described above, or before doing so performs an act of syngamy. Gemmation, as above described, takes place in three difierent ways, as follows : 1. The buds are formed one at a time, and the parent-individual persists and continues to reproduce itself (simple gemmation, Fig. 80, H). 2. The whole body of the Arcella breaks up into numerous buds which swarm out of the shell, leaving behind in it the two primary nuclei, with a small quantity of residual protoplasm. The parent- individual then dies ofi, apparently, but it is possible that it may in some cases regenerate the body again. This process of multiple gemmation differs only from the simple gemmation described in the previous paragraph in being, as it were, greatly intensified, taking place with such rapidity as to use up almost the entire protoplasm at once (Fig. 80, 7). 3. The protoplasm of the Arcella, with the chromidia, streams out of the shell, leaving in it only the degenerating primary nuclei. Outside the shell the amoeboid body forms secondary nuclei, and breaks up by multiple fission into a number of amoebulse. This process differs from that described in the foregoing paragraph only in taking place outside the shell (Fig. 80, J). As akeady stated, the amoebulaj formed by multiple gemmation may either be agametes, which develop directly into the adult form, or gametes, which first go through a process of syngamy which has been described in the previous chapter (Fig. 80, K, L). Both agametes and gametes arise in the same manner ; the gametes, however show sexual differentiation as regards size. The zygote is an am'oebula which develops into the adult form in the same way as an agamete. In addition to syngamy (karyogamy) between amoebulse, chromidiogamy between adult Arcelloi also occurs, as akeady described ; the result in this case also is the formation of a