282 THE PROTOZOA Trypanosoma, Crithidia, and Leptomonas, of which Leishmania may be regarded as the resting, non-flagolUed phase ; and tlie bodonid or heteromastigote type witli two flagella, seen in Trypanoplasma and Prowazelcia. We shall return to this point in considering the affinities of the group as a whole and of its constituent genera. The six types enumerated above are given with the nomenclature and dehiutions most commonly accepted, but it is necessary to state that the application and significance of the names Crithidia, Leptomonas, and Herfeto- monas, are much disputed and are far from being settled. The type of the genus Herpeto- monas of Saville Kent is a species found in the digestive tract of house-flies, H. muscce- domestic(B (Fig. 124). According to Prowazek (557), this form possesses normally two flagella, which are connected together by a membrane ; according to Patton (551) and many others, the biflagellate condition is due to precocious division of the normally single flagellum as a preparation for division of the body (compare Strickland, 558 ; Wenyon, 84). Those who follow Prowazek in regarding the biflagellate condition of Herpetomonas as its normal adult form employ the older genus Leptomonas of Saville Kent* for forms with a single flagellum(Chatton.Roubaud, Prowazek). The main source of the confusion in the nomen- clature arises from the uncertainty which still exists in many cases as to whether a given form or structural type is to be regarded as an in- dependent specific or generic type, or as a developmental phase of another species. This applies especially to the genus Crithidia, founded by Leger (543) for a species, G. fasciculata, from the intestine of Anopheles maculipennis, and defined as a small uniflagel- late form shaped like a grain of barley (Greek, Kpidrj). Such forms, however, occur as developmental forms of trypanosomes or of leptomonads, and it is extremely probable that the species on which Leger founded his genus was simply a phase of this kind, which Wood- cock (527) has proposed to call the " trypano- monad" phase, in the development of a trypanosome. On this ground Dunkerly (535), who has recently discussed the whole question, considers that the name Crithidia cannot be used as a generic name at all, but must be merged in Leptomonas, the name that should be used for all the uniflagellate parasites of insect-guts; while Herpetomonas should either become a synonym of Leptomonas, or should be used solely for Prowazek's biflagellate type, if that prove to be a distinct generic type. On the other hand, Leger and Duboscq (646, p. 232, footnote) consider that Crithidia should be retained, and Leptomonas ranked as a * The genus Leptomonas was founded by SaviUe Kent, "Manual of Infusoria," vol. i., p. 243, for L. UltscMii, parasite of the nematode worm Trildbus gracilis; the genus Herpetomonas was founded on p. 245 of the same work for H. vmscoe- domesticce and H. lewisi (= Trypanosoma lewisi). Leptomonas is therefore techni- cally the older genus. B A Fig. 124,.—H erpetomonas muscce-domesticw (Burnett). A, Motile individual with two flagella ; B, cyst: n., nucleus ; bl, kinetonucleus. After Prowazek.