THE NEOSPORIDIA 401 stuffs by diflfusion, the method by which the organism, like other sporozoan parasites, obtains the required nourishment. The pseu- dopodia vary in form in different species, from coarsely lobose and blunt to fine filaments ending in sharp points. In some species the formation of pseudopodia is localized at one pole of the body, termed " anterior," and in such peculiar propulsive pseudo- podium (" Stemm-pseudopodium") may be developed at the posterior pole like a tail, which by its elongation pushes the body forward.* The endoplasm is distinguished from the ectoplasm by its coarsely granular appearance. In addition to numerous nuclei and stages of spore-formation, the endoplasm may contain various metaplastic products, such as crystals, pig- ment-grains, fat-globules, etc. ; but never food-vacuoles or solid ingested food-particles. The plasmodial trophozoite forms spores in its endoplasm, as a rule, during the whole period of growth, but may also multiply by plasmotomy. In Myxidium lieberkuhni, for example, plas- motomy proceeds actively during the summer months, and leads to the wall of the pike's bladder being carpeted with the slimy, orange - coloured plasmodia, the presence of which can generally be detected at a glance; spore- formation, on the other hand, takes place ahnost exclusively during the colder months of the year. Spore-formation in the Myxosporidia is a somewhat complicated process, and is accompanied by sexual phenomena, which are commonly stated to be autogamous, but which are probably nothmg of the sort. There is a slight difference between the mode of spore-formation in the Disporea, in which each trophozoite produces but two spores, and the Polysporea, which produce many. Do*fletn'r"'s?p£^^f;, ' r™' *° ^V'' "^^taken altogether the significance of nnrifo V,- ^*emm-pseudopodium," and applies the term to the anterior pseudo- podia, which appear to be rather tactile in function in such oases. ^ 26 Fig. 165.—Leptotheca agUis: young plasmodial trophozoites in which the spore-formation has not begun. A, Individual moving forward by means of the " Stemm-pseudopo- dium " {st. ps.); B, individual in which only the anterior pseudopodia are developed. After Doflein.