THE ORGiVNIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 31 resting, inactive condition, or when the vital activity is temporarily hihibited by some shock or stimulus, such as an electric current suddenly turned on, lohysical forces reassert their sway, and under the influence of surface-tension the pseudopodia are retracted, and the body rounds itself off and returns to the spherical form. Apart, however, from temporary and variable departures from the primary and fundamental spherical form, many unicellular organisms exliibit a constant body-form which is often widely different from the sphere, and which is characteristic of particular species, or for the corresponding stages in the life-history of a given species, and varies only within the narrowest limits, if at all. The problem of form-production in Protozoa, like all other bio- logical problems, may be considered from two points of view. In the first place, there is the question why a particular species has such and such a form. The answer to this question must be sought in the habits and mode of life of the species and its relation to the environment. In general it may be said that each species pos- sesses, or tends to possess, the body-form best adapted to its par- ticular mode of life, though it is not always easy to trace the correlation of form and habit in special cases. A broad distinction may be drawn, however, between species which move freely in their environment and those which are fixed and sessile in habit. In freely-moving species, again, a further distinction can be drawn between those which float or swim in the medium, and those Avhich creep on a firm substratum. Pree-swimming species tend to the form of an ovoid, more or less elongated, with the longitudinal axis lying in the direction of forward movement (Mg. 14). Creeping forms tend to be more or less flattened, and spread, as it were, upon the substratum, leading in extreme cases to the differentiation of a ventral surface, in contact with the substratum, from a dorsal surface on the opposite side. Sedentary forms tend to be more or less vasiform, often with the point of attachment drawn out into a stalk or peduncle of greater or less length. A frequent peculiarity of the body-form in Protozoa, whether fixed or free, is the tendency to a more or less pronounced spiral twist. Bilateral symmetry, on the other hand, is a comparatively rare phenomenon in these organisms ; examjDles are found among the Flagellata—e.g., Lamhlia intestinalis (Fig. 117). The second question which arises is, Given a particular specific form, how is the form developed and maintauaed, on physiological or mechanical principles ? To this question the answer must be sought in the structure of the individual, and more especially in the formation and possession of special structural elements, more or less rigid in nature, which determine the form and support the soft body. Such structures may be external to the body, in the