THE PROTOZOA 446 plate. At tho upper end of the body fine continuations of the longitudinal myonemos can bo traced to the adoral zone, ending in the baisal rims of tho membranelliB (Schroder, 867). Stentor may be taken as a type showing the contractile system highly developed in functional efficiency, but more or less primitive in arrangement. Canals lodging tlie myonemes are not present universally, even in highly contractile forms; they are absent, according to Lebedew (93), in Trachelo- cerca, but they are figured by Maier (73) in Prorodon teres (Fig. 186, B). In their general form the myonemes are simple fibrillsc, often beaded when contracted. In the more specialized forms the contractile system acquires a more com- plicated arrangement. In Campanella, Schroder (864) describes five systems of myonemes : (1) Annular myonemes of the basal part of the body; (2) longi- tudinal myonemes of the outer body-wall, doubtless representing the primitive system (Fig. 186, K); (3) annular myonemes forming the sphincter-like muscle of the margin of the peristome ; (4) a spiral myoneme rmming under the adoral spiral, and continued down the wall of the vestibule ; (5) a series of retractor-myonemes of the peristomial disc. In Epistylis plicatilis, on the other hand, Schroder (865) found only three systems: The longitudinal myomenes (2), the annular peristomial myonemes (3), and the vestibular myoneme (4). To these systems found in the Vorticellids with non-con- tractile stalks must be added, in the genera Vorticella, Carchesium, etc., the powerful stalk-muscle (" spasmoneme'") formed by the union of the longi- tudinal myonemes (Schroder, 866). In Vorticella monilata fine connections run from the hinder ciliary ring upwards and downwards to the longitudinal myonemes when the cilia are developed, but disappear when these cilia dis- appear. In Licnophora, according to Stevens, the fibril that runs under the adoral spiral is continued down to the disc or cup of attachment and ramifies in its waUa. In the aberrant form Pycnothrix monocystoides, Schubotz describes a re- markable development of the myonemes in the form of a dense plexus of fibrils at the inner limit of the ectoplasm. The fibrils are connected with the basal granules of the ciha, and run in two directions, forming a deeper layer of circular myonemes and a more superficial layer of longitudinal myonemes. The question has been much discussed whether the contractile system, often so highly developed, is accompanied by any conducting elements of nervous nature. That many ciliates react with extreme rapidity to stimuli has been noted above, and that their movements are co-ordinated is suffi- ciently apparent. Neresheimer (856) describes in Stentor filaments believed to be of nervous nature, neuronemes which take origin from the foot and run about halfway up the body, at which point each neuroneme either ends in a bulbous swelling or becomes thinner and disappears. The neuronemes are situated externally to the myonemes, and run parallel to them. By experiments with various drugs, Neresheimer tried to prove the existence in Stentor of true nervous elements, as compared with Paramecium and other forms in which neuronemes were not foimd, and concluded that the elements described by him were truly nervous in natmre. Schroder (867) casts doubt on the existence of neuronemes and criticizes Neresheimer's technique. Lebedew (93), however, describes fibrils, possibly nervous in nature, runnmg parallel to the myonemes in Trachelocerca. For the present the existence of nervous elements in Ciliata must remam doubtful. But of the sensory function of the cilia there can be hardly any doubt, and the fact that their basal granules are always in close proximity to the myonemes is extremely significant. Such a direct contact between the sensory and contractile mechanisms may render conducting elements ot nervous nature unnecessary, except for purposes of co-ordination of move- ments. In some ciha, as akeady stated, the motile function is lost, and only the sensory function remains. The genus Mycterothriy: (TricJiorhync ms) is characterized by a rostrum bearing a number of stifl:", tactile cilia (J^aure- Fremiet, 839). In some cases, however, sensory organs occur whic i apF^^r not to be derived from cilia, as, for example, the tentacle-like or club-siiapea