133 SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA stood ; as already pointed out, sjaigamy has no special relation in Metazoa to cell-multiplication. In Protozoa sexual reproduction means simply reproduction following the sexual act; but sex and reproduction must be considered as two things entirely distmct. The comparison instituted above between the life-cycles of the Protozoa and Metazoa, according to which an entire Protozoan individual is the mor- phological equivalent of a single constituent cell of a Metazoan body, is that which I personally have always held and tauglit. It is, I believe, the pre- vailing view among zoologists, and has boon enunciated clearly by Calkins (5). It has, however, been attacked vigorously by Doboll (110), who lays great stress on the physiological analogy between the single Protozoon, as a com- plete organism, and the entire Metazoan body. On this ground he expresses the view that " a protist is no more homologous with one cell in a metazoon than it is homologous with one organ [e.g., the brain or liver) of the latter " ; he considers it " incredible that anybody could advocate the view that the Metazoa have arisen from aggregated Protozoa," and he puts forward the view that, if the Metazoa have arisen from protist forms, " it is far more natural to suppose that they did so by developing an internal cellular structure, and not by the aggregation of individuals to form a colony." Similar ideas have been put forward also by Awerinzew (890). From these and other considerations, Dobell draws the conclusion that the Protista aro not to be regarded as vmicellular, but as " non-cellular " organisms. So far as the word " cell" is concerned, I have already expressed the opinion above that by the term should be understood a certain stage in the evolution of the Protista, and that many protist organisms should not be termed " cells," but only those wliich have reached what may be considered as the truly cellular type of organization. I am not, therefore, concerned with Dobell's attack on his own conception of the cell-theory so far as it concerns Protists generally, but only in so far as it applies to the Protozoa. It is not possible here to discuss in detail the ontogenetic development of the Metazoa. It must suffice to state that in all primitive types of embryonic development among Metazoa the cells which build up the body originate by repeated binary fission of a single cell, the fertilized ovum ; and that the oialy cases m which the ovum breaks up into cells by the development of cell- limits internally are those in which the development is modified by the presence of yolk, or where there is good reason to believe that yolk was ancestrally present in the egg. For confirmation of these statements the reader must be referred to the ordinary textbooks of embryology. I must content myself with a single instance, that, namely, Avith which I am best acquainted by personal study. In the development of a simple Ascon sponge, such as Clathrina blanca or other species (see chapter " Sponges" in Lankester's " Treatise on Zoology," part u., p. 68), the ontogeny may be divided into four phases or perfod's, which mdicate clearly, in my opinion, the general Imes in the evolution of the Metazoa from Protozoan ancestors. 1. Starting with the fertilized ovum, strictly homologous with a Protozoan zygote. It divides by repeated bmary fission into a number of cells (blasto- meres), each similar to the ovum in every respect except size ; the process IS in every way comparable to the division of a Protozoan zygote into a number of individuals which remam connected to form a colony as for example, in many Phytomonadina. 2. Of the blastomeres thus formed, a certain number, variable in different species, biit relatively few, retain their original characteristics, while the rest become differentiated into columnar flagellated cells forming the wall of a cavity (blastocoelo). The undifferentiated blastomeres give rise to the archajocy OS, from which ultimately the germ-cells and gametes arise. The tlagollatcd col s are the ancestors of the tissue-cells (histocytes) in tho future sponge. At this stage, in which tho embryo is hatched out as a freo-swhnmintr