95 THE NUCLEUS plasm no less than in the nucleus. Butschli (3) considers it possible that the centrosomc might have been originally a cytoplasmic structure, which had nothing to do with the nucleus, but became included in it when a nuclear membrane was formed. Attention must bo drawn here to the remarkable genus Parammha (Fig 49) founded by Schaudinn for the species P. eilhardi (see p. 228) In this form there is present beside the nucleus a body which was termed the Nobon- korn," consisting of a darkly-staining middle piece, at each end of which is a cap of clear substance. The Nebenkorn has generally been considered to represent a centrosome, and Chatton (49) has put forward the suggestion that it may correspond to a karyosome or a portion of a karyosomo that has passed out of the nucleus with the centrosome. Recently, however, Jamcki (71-5) has described two new species of Parammba, and puts quite a different interpretation upon the Nebenkern. He regards the middle piece as chro- matin, the clear caps as archoplasmic masses, each of which contains a centrosome; and he considers the entu-o structure " as a second nucleus, as it were, fixed in division, in which the state of division has become the permanent form." He proposes to replace Schaudinn's term " Nebenkern " by the term "nucleus secundiis," and considers it especially comparable to the " sphere " of Noctiluca (Fig. 65). Division of the nucleus and Nebenkern takes place quite independently of one another. On the nucleolo-centrosomic theory, the whole karyosome with the contained centriole, as found in many Protozoa, is compared with the complex extranuclear centrosome of the higher organisms. It is clear, however, that the karyosome consists chiefly of plastin which is impregnated to a greater or less extent with chromatm, and in which the centriole is imbedded. As Chatton (49) has pointed out, the three elements which compose the karyosome are independent of each other. When the centriole and chromatin have left the karyosome, the plastin-mass remaining behind is homologous in every way with the nucleolus of the metazoan cell, and the only element common to both the karyosome of Protozoa and the centrosome of Metazoa is the centriole. The nuclear theory of the centrosome is associated especially with the names of Schaudinn and, in more recent times, of Hart- mann and Prowazek (63). According to this view, the centrosome represents a second cell-nucleus, and every cell is to be regarded as primarily binucleate. The starting-point of the evolutionary series would be such a form as Amoeba hinudeata, which possesses two similar and equivalent nuclei. In the next stage of evolution one of the two nuclei became specialized more for kinetic, the other for trophic, functions ; examples of this stage would be furnished by Paramceba (Fig. 49), with its nucleus and " Nebenkern," and by a trypanosome, with its trophonucleus and kinetonucleus, the Nebenkern of the first and the kinetonucleus of the second repre- sentmg the kinetic nucleus. The central grain of the Heliozoa or the extranuclear centrosome of the Metazoa would represent the final stage of evolution, namely, a kinetic nucleus deprived of all