THE PROTOZOA fheltTf '^i' -mre^-ted in certain regions of the body to form clu-omidial masses " or " chromidial nets " it IS even found that in some species a true nucleus may be absent temporarily during some phases of the life-cycle, all the chromatin bcmg then m the form of chromidia, from which nuclei arise by a process of condensation and organization of the chromatm in com- bmation with aclu-omatinic elements. Such a condition may be rega,rded as a temporary reversion to a more archaic and ancestral condition, since, as has been pointed out already (Chapter I) the Protista of the lower or bacterial grade of organization do' not possess, speakmg generally, a true nucleus, but only scattered grams of chromatin. Hence the chromidial condition of the chi-omatm may be ranked as an earlier and more primitive state from which the strictly cellular grade of organization has been evolved by concentration of some or all of the chi-omatm to form a nucleus. In the tissue-cells of Metazoa, as a general rule, and in many Protozoa, the chromatin is concentrated entirely in the nucleus or nuclei, and chromidia do not occur. Whatever view be taken as to the primitive or secondary nature of the chromidial condition (a question upon which mdividual opmions may differ considerably), the following facts can be stated definitely with regard to the chromidia. In some cases the chromidia can be observed to arise as extrusions of chromatm from the nucleus, wliich either casts ofE a certain amount of chromatin mto the cyto- plasm, while preservhig its individuality, or may undergo complete fragmentation, becoming resolved entirely into chromidia, and ceasnig to exist as a definite nucleus. In other cases, cliromidia arise from pre-existing chromidia, by growth and multiplication of the chi'omidiosomes, thus keeping up a clrromidial mass or stock which is propagated from cell to cell tlirough many generations, independently of the nuclei present in addition to them in the cell. The chromidial mass itself may vary considerably in structure in different cases or at different seasons ; the chromidiosomes may be arranged in clumps, strands, or trabeculse, on a protoplasmic framework, and the mass is often vacuolated and contains substances other than chromatm. In Difflugia, Zuelzer (85) has shown that in the autumn the chromidial mass assumes a vacuolated or alveolar structure, and in each alveolus grams are formed of a carbohydrate substance allied to glycogen, which functions as reserve food- material for the organism during the reproductive processes initiated at that season. On the other hand, as chromidia arise from nuclei, so nuclei may arise from chromidia. In many Protozoa, as, for example, Arcella (Fig. 32), the formation of so-called " secondary " nuclei (wliich, however, do not differ from other nuclei except in their mode of