237 THE SARCODINA Hence the dimorphism of the adults is due to their parentage, and is not necessarily related to the manner in which they reproduce. A microspheric form is produced sexuaUy, and is always an agaraont; a megalospheric iorm is produced non-sexuaUy, and may be either a gamont or an agamont. Very little is known of the life-cycle of the non-marme genera, ihe only form of which the cycle is known with any approach to completeness is Chlamydophnjs stercorea, the only entozoic member of the order, which is found in the fffices of various vertebrates ; a second species, C. schaudinm, is distinguished by Schiissler (A.P.K., xxii., p. 366). The adult form has a chitinous single-chambered sheU, and its protoplasm contams a smgie nucleus and a ring of chromidia. It reproduces itself vegetatively by binary hssion, and also by multiple fission producing gametes. In the gamete-formation, according to Schaudinn (131), the nucleus is ejected from the shell together with all foreign bodies, food-particles, etc. In the shell is left a small quantity of protoplasm containing the chromidia, from which about eight secondary nuclei are formed, and then the protoplasm concentrates round each nucleus and divides up into as many cells, the gametes, each of which becomes a biflagellate swarm-spore, and is set free. The gametes copulate and the zygote encysts. In order to develop further, the cyst must be swallowed by a suitable host and pass through its digestive tract. If this happens, the cyst germmates in the hind-gut, setting free an amcebula which forms a shell and becomes a young Chlamydophrys, living as a harmless inhabitant of the hind- gut, and feeding on various organisms or waste products occurring there ; but according to Schaudinn it may, under circumstances not yet defined or explained, pass from the digestive tract into the peritoneal cavity, and multiply there as an amoeboid form without a shell, thus giving rise to the organism described by Leyden and Schaudinn, from ascites-fluid, under the name Leydenia gemmipara. The Foraminifera as a group comprise a vast number of genera and species, both recent and fossil, for an account of which the reader must be referred to the larger works. They are classified by Lister (286) into ten orders (suborders ?), containing in all thirty- two families ; Rhumbler (288) recognizes ten families in all. The vast majority are marine, but some of the simpler forms, such as EuglypJia, are found in fresh water, and can scarcely be separated from the Lobosa except by the characters of their pseudopodia, a feature upon which great weight cannot be laid as an indication of affinity. Until the life-histories of these simpler forms have been studied, their true systematic position must be considered as some- what uncertain. But the affinities of such genera as Euglypha and Chlamydophrys would seem to be with the Lobosa Testacea rather than with the Foraminifera. III. Xenophyophora. This group was founded by F. E. Schulze (290) for a number of curious organisms of deep-sea habitat, the zoological position of which was a matter of dispute. By Haeckel they were believed to be f^onges allied to Keratosa, such as Spongelliidce, horny sponges which load the spongin-fibres of the skeleton with foreign bodies of various kinds. Schulze established definitely their relationship to