424 THE PROTOZOA Suborder T : Oligosporulea.—The Plasmodium divides at once into sporoblasts, each of which becomes a single spore. Family Haplosporidiidce.—Spores with a double envelope, the outer some- times prolonged mto tails or processes. G'cncra: Haphsporidium, Vrospor- tdium, and Anurosporidmm ; all the known species are parasitic in Annelids. Farmly Bertramiidce.—Spores with a simple envelope, or with none' Bertramia, with several species : B. capitellce, parasite of the coelojne of CapiteUa capitata ; B. asperospora, a common parasite of the body-cavity of Rotifers. B. kirJcmanni, described by Warren from Rotifers in Natal, is stated to have several nuclei and a vacuole in the spore, and appears to belong to a distinct genus. In this family the genua Ichthyosporidmm is ranked provisionally, as the mode of spore-formation is unknown as yet. Ichthyosporidium is a common parasite of fishes, often lethal to an extreme degree. It occurs in the form of Plasmodia, sometimes irregular, sometimes more or less spherical in form, spattered in various organs, but usually in the muscles or the connective tissue ; the Plasmodium contains numerous vesicular nuclei with distinct karyosomes, and may be naked at the surface, or marked off from the sur- rounding tissues by a membrane or envelope, often of considerable thick- ness. _ The Plasmodia multiply actively by plasmotomy, and an intense infection is produced. Parasites with a single nucleus are also found, which may cither represent the planont stage, or may be derived from the division of a Plasmodium ; from them the plasmodial stage arises by multiplication of the nuclei. No other stage of the parasite is known, and the method of transmission remains to be discovered. Bertramia bufonis, described by King (Proc. Acad. Sci. Philad., 59, p. 273), is possibly a species of Ichthyosporidium or allied to this genus. Family CaHosporidiidce, for the genera Coelosporidium, Mesnil and Marchoux and Polycaryum, Stempell: All the species known are parasites of Crustacea (Phyllopoda and Cladocera). The Plasmodium forms globules of fatty substance in the interior ; it becomes encysted as a whole, and breaks up into sporozoite-like bodies within the cyst. Caullerya mesnili, Chatton (803), parasite of the epithelium of the mid-gut of Daphnia spp., produces, by fragmentation of the plasmodium, spores with resistant envelopes containing each about thirty nuclei. Chatton considers it to be intermediate between the Haplosporidiidce and Ccelo- sporidiidce ; possibly it should be referred to the next suborder. Blastulidium pcedopMJiorum, Perez, referred to this family, is, according to Chatton (804), a Chytridinian. Coelosporidium blatellce, Crawley, is referred by Leger {C.B.A.S., cxlix., p. 239) to the genus Peltomyces (Myce- tozoa, p. 243). Suborder II.: Polysporuxba.—The plasmodium divides into sporonts, each of which produces a cluster of spores. Two genera, each with a single species : Nenrospcridium cepTialodisci, from the nervous system of Cephalodiscus nigrescens (Ridewood and Fantham); and Ehinosporidium tinealyi, from the septum nasi of human beings in India (Minchin and Fantham ; Beattie); a case has also been observed in America (Wright). Ehinosporidium causes vascular pedunculated growths or tumours, resembling raspberries, in the septum nasi or floor of the nose. In sections of the growth, great numbers of the parasite are found embedded in the connective tissue, while the mature cysts may be in the stratified epithelium (Wright). The youngest parasites are rounded cells with a single nucleus and a distinct envelope (Beattie). By division of the nucleus the parasite becomes a multinucleate plasmodium, the so-called "granular stage," often of irregular form, but this may be due to the action of the preserving reagents. Older parasites are spherical, with the envelope thickened to form a thick transparent cyst, external to which a nucleated envelope is formed by cells of the connective tissue (Beattie). The contents of the cyst (Fig. 177, A) become divided up into numerous