68 THE PROTOZOA grains," and so forth—bodies which are often mistaken for true chromatin, but which must be carefully distinguished from it, just as metaplastic bodies are to be distinguished from protoplasm. Among such bodies must be mentioned more especially the so-called " volutin-grains,"* which have attracted much attention of recent years, and which occur in various bacterial or unicellular organisms. The volutin-grains resemble chromatin in showing affinities for so-called " nuclear stains," which they hold more firmly than the chromatin itself, when treated with reagents that extract the stain. According to Reichenow (78), volutm is a nucleic acid combination which is to be regarded as a special reserve-material for the forma- tion of the nucleo-protems of the chromatin-substance ; during phases of the life-cycle in which the chromatm in the nucleus increases in quantity, the volutin in the cytoplasm diminishes, and, conversely, when the quantity of chi'omatin is stationary, the volutui-grains increase in number. Volutm-grams are thus seen to be bodies of totally different nature from chromidia, with which they are often confused on account of their similar appearance and staining reactions ; chromidia are formed, typically, as extrusions from the nucleus into the cytoplasm ; volutin-grams, on the other hand, are formed in the cytoplasm, and represent, as it were, a food-substance which is absorbed by the nucleus in the growth and formation of the chromatm. In some cases, however, the meta- chromatmic grams may represent chromidial extrusions from the nucleus which are breakmg down or being modified mto other substances ; compare, for example, the extrusion of vegetative ckromidia, which degenerate into pigment, from the nucleus of Actinosphcerium during a depression-period (p. 209). The occurrence in the cell-body of volutin and other substances wliich resemble chromatin very closely may often render extremely difficult the task of identifying and distinguisliing the true chro- matin, esj)ecially when it is not concentrated into a definite nucleus, but is scattered in the cytoplasm m the form of chromidial grains. The test upon wliich reliance is most usually placed for the identi- fication of chi'omatm is its stainmg properties, and especially its readiness for combining' with basic aniline dyes and certain other colouruig matters. But this test is extremely inadequate and un- reliable ; on the one hand, as has been stated above, there are substances, such as volutin, which are coloured by " nuclear " stams more intensely than the true chromatin itself ; on the other hand, in cellular organisms Avhich jpossess true nuclei contammg undoubted chromatm, the staining reactions of the nuclei may be strikingly different in different cases. A good examiDle of each of * The iiamo " volutin " was coined by A. Meyer in 1904, and is derived from tlic fact that the substance was first studied by him in S'pirillum volutans.