POLYMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES 169 Trypanosoma lewisi of rats, in wJiich two types of suoli fission are seen : eitlier the multiplication of a small individual by repeated binary fission to form a " rosette " composed of several daughter- individuals (Fig. 127, J, K), or the separation of several small daughter-individuals from a large one (Fig. 127, F, G, H). In both cases the multiple fission is simply rapid and repeated binary fission. The young individuals resulting from the fission are sometimes crithidial in type (p. 294), and grow into the adult trypanosome- form. In multiple gemmation (sporulation) the parent body breaks up into a number, sometimes very large, of small or even very minute individuals, buds, or germs, usually given off from a more or less considerable mass of residual protoplasm, which degenerates and dies off. The buds when set free may become active at once, or they may pass first into a resting state to which an active state succeeds at a later period. In the latter case they may form sporocysts, and become the spores already described. Within the sporocyst the minute germ may multiply further by fission. In the subclass Telosporidia of the Sporozoa, the contents of the spore may divide up in this way to form a variable number of slender sickle-shaped germs, for which Aime Schneider coined the term sporozoites, a term which has since been frequently appHed in senses quite diSerent to its original meaning. An active germ produced by sporulation is termed a swarm-spore or zoospore, whether or not the active phase is preceded by a resting spore-stage. The swarm-spores of Protozoa may be of various types in different cases. The swarm-spore may be amoeboid and creep about by the aid of pseudopodia ; it is then termed an amosbula (or pseudopodiospore). It may be provided with one or more flageUa as organs of locomotion, and is then termed a flagelMa (or flagelUspore). It may have a coat of ciha, as in the young stages of Acinetaria, and may then be termed a ciliospore. Lastly, the swarm-spore may be without organs of locomotion, whether perma- nent or temporary, and may progress by twisting and wrigghng movements of the body as a whole, or by ghding forwards on its long axis in a manner similar to the ghding movements of gregarines ; swarm-spores of this type are speciaUy characteristic of the Telo- sporidia amongst the Sporozoa, arising either by sporulation of a schizont (merozoites) or in the process of spore-formation after syngamy (sporozoites), and may be termed gregariniform swarm- spores or gregarinulce comprehensively. In some cases the swarm-spore may pass through more than one active phase, and exhibit different modes of locomotion in each ihis IS well seen in the Mycetozoa (p. 239), where the germination 01 the spore produces an amoebula, which may acquire a flagellum