215 THE SARCODINA numerous nuclei show no differentiation amongst themselves, and appear to be perfectly equivalent both in structure and function. Chromidia may be present as a permanent cell-constituent in many Ama3ba?a, such as Arcella, Dij]l%igia, and the Foraminifera ; in other cases they are formed temporarily, as extrusions from the nucleus, during certain phases of the life-cycle, either as a preliminary to reproduction or as a regulative process under certain physiological conditions. The reproduction of the Sarcodina is effected either by binary or multiple fission. Binary fission may be absent in some of the larger, more specialized forms, as in many Foraminifera and Radio- laria, but in most cases it is the ordinary " vegetative " method of reproduction during the active trophic life of the organism. In plasmodial forms it takes the form of plasmotomy (p. 100). Mul- tiple fission or gemmation (sporulation) is in some cases the sole method of reproduction ; in other case it is combined with binary fission, and occurs only at certain crises in the life-cycle, in relation to seasonal changes, or as a preliminary to syngamy. In this type of reproduction the organism, breaking up rapidly into a large— often an immense—number of minute individuals, is necessarily put hors de combat as soon as the reproduction begins ; hence it is not uncommon for the sporulation to take place within a cyst, when a shell or protective envelope is not present, as in Amosha proteus (Scheel). The minute germs produced by sporulation may be set free at once as swarm-spores ; or they may form a pro- tective envelope or sporocyst, and be liberated as resistant spores which are disseminated passively, and germinate when conditions are favourable, as in parasitic forms and in the semi-terrestrial Mycetozoa. The swarm-spores, whether produced directly by sporulation of an adult or indirectly by germination of a spore, may be either flagellulse or amoebulsc. In many forms two types of sporulation occur—schizogony producing agametes, and sporogony producmg gametes. The agametes may be structurally or morphologically distmguishable from the gametes. Thus, in Foraminifera the agametes are amoebulae, the gametes are flagellulse. In Radiolaria both alike are flageUulse, but the agametes produced in schizogony —the " isospores "—are distinguishable from the gametes produced in sporogony—" anisospores." In this class syngamy takes place rarely between adult indi- viduals ; but examples of this are seen in Actinophrys, where it takes the form of karyogapay within a cyst (Fig. 71), and in Arcella (p. 148) and Difflugia, where it takes the form of chromidiogamy between free individuals, foUowed in Difflugia by encystment. In the great majority of Sarcodina the syngamy is microgamous, and takes place