267 THE MASTIGOPHORA occurs in the life-cycle of Copromonas. In Mastigina, on the other hand, the monad form developed from the zygote apparently does not multiply by fission, but develops directly into the adult form— perhaps a more primitive state of affairs. A very instructive series is furnished by the colony-forming Phytomonads of the family Volvocidce. At one end of the series are primitive types, such as StephanospJicera, where the colony is composed of eight monad individuals, all alike, which may be agamonts in one colony or gamonts in another. Each agamont multiplies by fission to form eight small cells, which remain con- nected together and grow into full-sized monads, thus giving rise directly to new colonies. In the gamont-colonies each gamont (gametocyte) gives rise by multiple fission to a large number of minute bifiagellate swarm-spores, the gametes, which are set free and copulate. The sjmgamy is perfectly isogamous. The zygote grows in size, and finally multiphes to form the eight monads of a new colony. At the other end of the series are the species of the genus Volvox, in which the colony is composed of a great number of individuals, which may be of three kinds, not necessarily all present in the same colony : (1) The ordinary " somatic" monads, locomotor and trophic in function, which do not reproduce themselves in any way ; (2) agamonts, so-called " parthenogonidia," which multiply by fission to form daughter-colonies ; (3) gamonts or gametocytes, which are sexually differentiated as " microgonidia " and " macro- gonidia." The microgonidia produce by multiple fission a swarm of small bifiagellate microgametes, comparable to tlae gametes of Siephanosphcera. In the macrogonidia, on the other hand, multi- phcative processes are in abeyance, and each becomes a single, ovum- like macrogamete, which is fertilized by the relatively minute microgamete. Thus, the syngamy in Volvox is anisogamous to the highest degree ; and, as in other cases among Protozoa, this condition appears to have arisen from a primitive isogamy in which, in both sexes, the gametocytes sporulated to produce a swarm of minute gametes, by the process of sporulation becoming altogether suppressed in one sex—namely, the female—while retained in its primitive form in the other. The colonies of Volvox, with their differentiation of individuals, exhibit a condition transitional to that ot the Metazoa. The trophic, non-reproductive individuals, taken as a whole, may be compared to the Metazoan soma, the repro- ductive individuals to the germen. In Pleodorina califomica dis- tinct male, female, or parthenogenetic colonies occur (Chatton), as IS the case in some species of Volvox. auSr^'^'ntf^'T?^" Flagellata are classified ia different ways by different authors, and in the present state of our knowledge of the group no svstem can be regarded as m any way final. As in otherVoups of^rotozoa S