CLASSIFICATION OF THE MAIN SUBDIVISIONS 473 4. Finally, the Guarnieri's body breaks up, and the cell becomes full of initial corpuscles, which divide up in their turn into numerous elementary corpuscles, and the cycle is complete. An interesting problem, from both the medical and biological points of view, is that of the relation of the organism of vaccinia (cow-pox) to that of variola (small-pox). It is well known that an inoculation with vaccme-lyniph (vaccination) produces a transitory local disturbance which confers partial immunity against infection with variola. It does not seem to be quite clear whether the organisms of vaccinia and variola are to be regarded as two distinct species or as two phases or conditions of the same species of or- ganism; the latter is the view of Calkins, as stated above. Manson has suggested {Brit. Med. Journ., 1905, ii., p. 1263) that the relationship between the organisms of vaccinia and variola may be similar to that between Leishmania tropica, of Oriental Sore, and L. donovani, of Kala-azar. _No evidence has been brought forward as yet, however, to show that an infection with Oriental Sore confers any immunity against Kala-azar. The Chlamydozoa have been most studied in those cases where their power of producing disease has forced them upon the atten- tion of medical investigators, but it is not to be supposed that as a group of organisms they occur solely as parasites of higher animals. It is probable that they are of widespread occurrence, and that the peculiar nuclear parasite of Amceba known as Nucleophaga, Dan- geard, for instance, should be referred to the Chlamydozoa (com- pare Schepotieff, 269), and perhaps also the similar parasite of Paramecium described by Calkins under the name Garyoryctes. No Chlamydozoa are known, however, to occur as free-living, non- parasitic organisms, but this circumstance may be due to their extreme minuteness ; the species known owe their detection to the disturbances they cause in their hosts. Finally, it must be men- tioned that the parasitic theory of cancer, sometimes thought to be long since defunct, has been revived recently by Awerinzew (907), who is of opinion that cancer is caused by intranuclear parasites of the nature of Chlamydozoa. Such, briefly summarized, is the present position of the problem. Future research must decide the truth or falsity of one or the other of the solutions that have been advocated. It only remains to discuss briefly the nature of the Chlamydozoa, if the interpreta- tion of Prowazek and his adherents be accepted. According to Prowazek and Lipschiitz (913), the Chlamydozoa belong neither to the Bacteria nor to the Protozoa. Hartmann (909), however, seems to consider that their development and their characteristic mode of division are Protozoan characteristics. The " development," how^- ever, seems to consist of little, if anything, more than growth in size. As "elementary corpuscles" they are smaller, as "initial bodies" larger. The dumb-bell-shaped figure seen in division may mean