226 THE PROTOZOA cysts in the cultures ;* such amcebse, for the most part of the limax-ty^, have been confused with the true ontozoic amoeba, and have given rise to erroneous ideas. Secondly, it is certain now that the two species of amoebte recognized by Sehaudinn does not exhaust the list of human entozoic amoebae. Thirdly, it is possible that Sehaudmn did not see the entire life-cycle of the forms studied by him, or tliat in some cases he confused stages of different species in the same life-cycle (compare Hartmann, 247). It is still doubtful how many species of entozoic amoebse occur in man. Hartmann recognizes two dysenteric amoebse, in addition to the harmless E. coli: E. histolytica, Sehaudinn, and E. tetragena, Viereck (synonym, E. africana, Hartmann). E. tetragena has been described from various parts of the tropics; it differs from E. histolytica in its characters, and more nearly resembles E. coli, but is distinguished by the formation of resistant cysts containing four nuclei. In addition to these species, many others have been described by various investigators—for example, E. minuta, Elmassian, which, according to Hartmann, is merely a variety of E. coli. A summary of the various amoebse descrilDed from the human intestine is given by Doflein (7) and Fantham (241). In Cochin China, Noc obtained from liver- abscesses and dysenteric stools a small amoeba (not named) which in the multiplicative phase reproduces in two ways : by binary fission of the ordinary type ; and by budding off small amoebulse containing secondary nuclei formed from chromidia. In the propagative phase Noc's amoeba encysts and breaks up into amoebulse. Greig and Wells, in Bombay, obtained results very similar to those of Noc. In cultures from liver-abscesses from Bombay, Liston found two distinct forms of amoebae—a larger form containing a single nucleus and numerous chromidia, and a smaller form containing a nucleus only. The larger amoeba multiplies either by bmary fission, with karyo- kinesis of the nucleus and partition of the chromidia ; or by the formation of endogenous buds containing chromidia from which a secondary nucleus is formed, the bud being finally set free as a small amoeba with a nucleus and a number of chromidia. The small amoeba multiples only by binary fission, preceded by amitotic division of the nucleus. Both large and small amoebae form restmg cysts, in which, however, they remain unchanged, and from which they emerge when circumstances are favourable. It is evident that much of the life-cycle of these liver-abscess amoebaj remains to be worked out. From the foregoing it is clear that, with regard to the human pathogenic amoebffi, many important problems remain to be investigated, especially as regards their specific distinctions, distribution, and life-history. Much recent work has been carried on by culture-methods, with valuable results, which, however, should be interpreted with caution, since it remains to be ascertained whether the forms and phases assumed by these organisms in cultures are identical in character with those which they exhibit under natural conditions ; and until this point has been cleared up it is not safe to describe the characters of a species of an amoeba, any more than of a trypanosome, from cultural forms alone. With regard to the life-cycle of the pathogenic amoebae, it is most important to discover what are the phases of development or conditions of life under which they occur outside the human body; whether they exist only in an encysted, resting condition, or in an active state also; and, in the latter case, whether as free-living organisms or within some other host. On general grounds it is un- likely that an organism adapted to an entozoic life should be capable also of living free in Nature, and it is more probable that the pathogenic amoebae out- side the human body occur only in the condition of restmg cysts or spores, which produce infection through being accidentally swaUowed with food or water (compare Walker, 276-5). In that case unfiltered water, uncooked vegetables * Whether this also applies to cultures made from the pus of liver-abscesses, as asserted by Whitmore (279) and Hartmann (247), may well be doubted ; it is Sot easy to understand how an encysted amoeba could be transported passively from the intestine into a Uver-abscess.