327 THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA As a rule, in such cases there is but a single septum, which divides the body into two parts termed respectively prolomerite and detito- merite (Figs. 7, 142) ; but in the curious genus Tceniocyslis (Leger, 616) there are a number of septa, giving the parasite a superficial resemblance to a segmented worm. The body of a gregarine consists typically of distinct ectoplasm and endo- plasra. The ectoplasm may be further differentiated into three layers: an ex- ternal cuticle or epicyte, a middle layer or sarcocyte, and a deeper contractile layer or myocyte containing myonemes (Fig. 29, p. 58). The epimerite, with its hooks and processes, is derived from the epicyte; the septa, if present, from the sarcocyte. The endoplasm is usually extremely granular, and contains great quantities of stored-up food material in reserve for the reproductive processes; chief amongst these substances are para- glycogen - spherules, extremely charac- teristic of these parasites. A remarkable feature of gregarines is the power possessed, by many species, of gliding forward, often at a great pace, without any visible organs of locomotion. Two explanations have been given of these movements: (1) by Schewiakoff, that they are due to extrusion of gelatinous fibres from the hinder end of the body, secreted between the epicyte and sarcocyte; (2) by Crawley, that the movements arc produced by contrac- tions of the myonemes which are only present in motile forms. In motionless forms the ectoplasm is very thin, and consists of epicyte alone. The nucleus of a gregarine is usually very large, spherical, and vesicular in type, with one or more distinct karyo- somes. It is typically single, except in the cases of precocious association men- tioned below—exceptions, however, which are only apparent, since in such cases the gregarine represents in reality two individuals fused into one. In the septate forms the nucleus lies in the deutomerite normally. In Pterocephalus {Nina), however, a second nucleus which appears to be of transitory nature and to take no share in the repro- ductive processes, has been discovered in the protomerite (Leger and Duboscq Y'u «r "^"^^lous-like body observed by Siedlecki in Lankesteria ascidice, and by Wenyon (84) in L. culicis, occurring at the point of contact of the two associated sporonts in the cyst, is perhaps a body of similar nature. The nucleus of CallyntroMamys phronimce is remarkable for being surrounded by a halo composed of radiating processes, each a thin tubular evagination Fig. in A, 142.—Examples of gregarines the " cephalont " condition. . Actinocephalus oligacanthus ; B, Stylorhynchus longicoUis. ep., Epimerite ; pr., protomerite ; d., deutomerite. After Schneider.