261 THE MASTIGOPHORA or Craspedomonads (Fig. 110)—a peculiar structure occurs, knovm as the " collar," a delicate protoplasmic tube or funnel which arises along a circular base-line of which the insertion of the flagellum is the centre, and so forms a cup, sleeve, or collar-like structure surrounding the flagellum for about a third or a half of its length. It is stated, both for Choanoflagellates and for the very similar collar-cells of sponges, that the collar is a membrane folded in a spiral manner, its insertion running along the body and round the base of the flagellum ; but the spiral structure is not easy to make out. The Choanoflagellates are sedentary forms which, if set free temporarily from their attachment, swim with the flagellum directed backwards, doubtless the mechanical result of the presence of the collar. The function of the collar is probably connected with the capture and absorption of food-particles wafted towards the body by the flagellum. The collar is retractile, but is not capable of active movements such as are seen in an undulating membrane. The organs of nutrition must be considered in connection with the four modes of life already mentioned. (a) In holozoic forms the organism captures and ingests other organisms of various kinds. In some forms the ingestion of food- particles may take place at any point on the body-surface ; examples of this are the amoeboid forms, such as Mastigammha, which capture their food by means of their pseudopodia, like an amoeba ; the holo- mastigote genus Multicilia (Fig. 113) ; the parasitic Lophomonas (Fig. 45), and possibly others. But in most cases food-particles are ingested at the base of the flagellum, the spot towards which they are propelled by the activity of the flagellum itself. There may, however, be no special aperture for food-ingestion, particles which impinge upon the soft protoplasmic body being simply absorbed directly with formation of a food-vacuole. With a more advanced type of organization, a special aperture or cytostome for the ingestion of food-particles is found at the base of the flagellum. The cytostome may be a simple aperture leading through the cuticle directly, or by means of a funnel-shaped depression, into the proto- plasmic body, or it may, in more highly organized forms, lead into a special tube, termed an " oesophagus " or " cytopharynx," which receives the evacuations of the contractile vacuoles, and serves for excretion as well as ingestion (Fig. 84). In any case the oesophagus ends blindly in the fluid endoplasm. There is no special anal aper- ture for expulsion of faecal material, which is expeUed at any point of the body-surface in primitive forms, or through the oesophagus and cytostome in those more highly organized. (b) In holophytic forms the organs of nutrition are those of the plant-cell (p. 188)—namely, chromatophores, or corpuscles contain- ing chlorophyll or allied pigments ; pyrenoids, small glistening bodies