THE H«OSPORIDIA 357 In the sequel, therefore, the Hsemosporidia will be discussed under five principcal types, each of which comprises several forms. So far as possible, tl\e " correct " names of these forms will be stated. Finally an attempt will be made to discuss the position and affinities of the group as a whole. The following is a summary of the distinctive characters of the types in question : 1. The Hcemamceba-Type.—The tvo-phozoites of the schizogonous cycle occur within red blood-corpuscles, and are amoeboid ; they produce a characteristic pigment, termed " melanin." When the blood is drawn and cooled domi on a slide, the male sporonts, if present, form filamentous male gametes resembling flagella, and are consequently said to " exflagellate." The invertebrate host, 80 far as is known, is a mosquito. 2. T?ie Halteridium-Type.—The intracorpuscular trophozoite is a characteristic halter-shaped parasite of red blood-corpuscles, which is amoeboid, and which, like the last, produces melanin-pigment, and " exflagellates " on the slide. Only known from the blood of birds ; the mvertebrate host, so far as is known, is a Hippoboscid fly. 3. The Leucocytozoon-Type.—The full-grown sporonts are found within white blood-cells, which are greatly altered by the parasite. They are not amoeboid, and do not produce pigment, but they " exflagellate " when the blood is drawn. Only known in birds ; the mvertebrate host is unknown. 4. TJie Hcemogregarine-Type.—Parasites usually of red blood-cor- puscles, sometimes of white ; they are not amoeboid, do not produce pigment, and do not " exflagellate." They occur throughout the whole vertebrate series, but are most abundant in cold-blooded vertebrates. Those of fishes, amphibia, and reptiles, are trans- mitted generally by leeches ; those of mammals and some reptiles apparently by ectoparasitic Arthropods. 5. The Piroplasma -Ti/pe.—^arasites of red blood - corpuscles, amoeboid or of definite form ; they do not produce pigment and do not " exflagellate "; generally very minute. They are known only in mammals, and the invertebrate host is always a tick. These five types will now be considered in more detail. 1. The Hcsmamosice.—The characteristic form of parasite in this section is a mmute, amoeba-like organism contamed within a red blood-corpuscle ; as it grows it gradually exhausts and destroys the corpuscle, and at the same time produces the characteristic melanin- pigment. Such are the well-known malarial parasites of mammals and birds. Unfortunately, the accepted rules of nomenclature render it obligatory to use the generic name Plasmodium for these parasites, a most unsuitable name, since they are not plasmodia m any phase except very temporarily, when they are sporulating. They may, however, be termed familiarly " ha3mamo3b£e," pro-