SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA 135 and shows signs of enfeeblement and " senility " or " depression "— a condition which, with continued isolation, reaches such a pitch that the organism is unable to assimilate, grow, or reproduce, but dies off inevitably unless conjugation with another individual takes place. At a result of syngamy, the vigour of the race is renewed, and the organisms once more grow and reproduce them- selves actively until senility supervenes again. From these and many other facts it would appear as if syngamy produced a strengthening or re-organizing effect upon the organism, restoring vigour and activity to vital functions that have become, as it were, worn out and effete. One very important discovery has resulted from the experi- ments of Calkins and Woodruff—namely, that the necessity for syngamy can be greatly deferred by change of environment. A strain which has become senile and exhausted can be stimulated and revived by a change of food. Even this remedy appears to have its limits, however, a degree of exhaustion being reached sooner or later which nothing can restore to its pristine vigour. The animals may even reach a pitch of exhaustion so great that they are unable to conjugate, but die off in a helpless manner. Calkins explains such cases as due to the senility having affected not only the vegetative, but also the generative chromatin ; pro- ducing generative senility, which is incurable, instead of mere vege- tative senility, for which sjoigamy is a remedy. Nevertheless, the fact that the advent of senility and exhaustion can be deferred by the stimulation of changed conditions is a very important discovery. It must be remembered that the Cihata are organisms of extremely complex organization, and it is not unreasonable to suppose that in such forms the work thrown upon the vegetative chromatin is much heavier, and therefore the tendency to exhaustion much greater, than it would be in an organism of simpler constitution ; in such a form the stimulus of change of environment might defer the advent of senility very greatly, perhaps even for an indefinite period (Woodruff, 141).* This suggestion applies particularly to parasitic forms, in which the organization is always greatly simpli- fied, and in which change of environment from generation to generation is inseparable from their mode of life. It would not be surprising, therefore, if syngamy were found to be completely in abeyance in a parasitic form of simple structure. It should be noted here that examples of syngamy being m abeyance are not wanting even in higher organisms. An instance ^u*Ju ^'^ '^^^^'^ "'^ Paramecium, Woodruff (142) expresses the view that most, )f not all, normal individxials have, under suitable environmental conclitions, unlimited power of reproduction without conjugation or artificial stimulation." Compare also Woodruff and Baitsell (14.3).