71 THE NUCLEUS periods of life-history, but is the same, normally, for corresponding phases of the life of the cell; it can be influenced by external con- ditions, such as food and temperature, and also by internal factors, undergoing changes in a regular manner, in harmony with changing functional conditions of the cell. In cultures of a given species at a lower temperature, multiplication is slower and the organisms grow larger and possess larger nuclei; with increase of temperature the reverse takes place (compare p. 206, infra). It has also been observed that, in long-continued cultures of Protozoa, periods of active assimilation and multiplication are followed by periods of depression, during which assimilation and reproduction are at a standstill, even in the midst of abundant nutriment (see especially Calldns, 5). The depression-periods are characterized by an in- crease of the nuclear substance relatively to the cytoplasm, a " hyperchromasy " of the cell, which may lead to the death of the individual unless compensated by the elimination and absorption of part of the nuclear substance (p. 209, infra) ; when the balance has been thus restored, the organism becomes normal and feeds and multiplies again. From this conception of a definite relation between the mass of the nucleus, or rather of the chromatin, and that of the cytoplasm, Hertwig has deduced a number of important consequences to which reference will be made in subsequent chapters. The influence exerted by the chromatin upon the life of the organism may be manifested in two ways, which may be termed, for convenience, actual and prospective, respectively. In the first case it regulates the metabolism and functions, both trophic and kinetic, of the cell in which it is contained, and is then commonly termed vegetative chromatin, or trophochromatin. In the second case it may be dormant and inactive in the cell that contains it, remaining latent, as it were, until carried on to future generations in the course of cell-reproduction ; at a later period the whole or a part of this latent chromatin may become active, determining the nature and properties of the offspring, and thus serving as the vehicle for hereditary transmission of the characters of antecedent generations. Such temporarily dormant chromatin is commonly termed genera- tive chromatin, or idiochromatin. It is probable that in all Protozoa the cell-body contains chromatin both in the active and inactive state, the one regulating the vital functions of the living body, the other remaining dormant, in reserve for future generations. The validity of this conception, according to which the chromatin present in an organism is regarded as being either vegetative or generative in function, must be tested by its capacity to account for the facts of the development and life-cycle which will be con- sidered more fully in subsequent chapters. There are no means of recognizing and distinguishing vegetative and generative chro-