438 THE PROTOZOA ot a sausage or of a liorseslioc, as in Vorticellids (Fig. 183, N), or exhibit the form of a string of beads, as in Slenior (Fig.'8) and Spirosiomum (Fig. 180) ; or there may be two macronuclei con- nected by a delicate filament, with a micronucleus beside eacli, as in StylomjcJda ; or, finally, the macronucleus may be broken up to form a diffuse network or a great number of small nuclei. The micronucleus may be single or multiple, but does not vary in form to any marked extent. Xz7e-/fi5to/-i/.—Reproduction takes the form of binary fission, usually in the free state ; but some species become encysted prior to division, and then divide into two, four, eight, or a large number of small individuals within the cyst. Binary fission in the free state is, with few exceptions, transverse to the long axis of the body ; but in the fixed, sedentary forms the fission is usually in the vertical plane, or slightly oblique to it, and often takes the form of very unequal fission or budding. In some of the entozoic species of Astomata (p. 439), repeated transverse division of the body without complete separation of the daughter-individuals from one another leads to the formation of chams of individuals, of which the most anterior may be larger than the others. As in other Protozoa, colonies may be formed in Ciliata as the result of imperfect separation of sister-individuals produced by fission. This is especially common in the sedentary Peritricha, leading usually to the formation of arborescent growths ; but some- times the colony takes other forms, as, for example, in Ophrydium, where it consists of a great number of individuals embedded in a common mass of jelly which floats freely. Encystment is related in various ways to the life-conditions of the Ciliata. Most frequently it appears to take place as a protec- tion against desiccation in free-living forms, or as an adaptation to a change of hosts in parasitic forms. But in some cases it is related to the digestion of food, in others to reproductive processes. In some species it is stated to take place if the supply of food fails, and it can be induced artificially in various ways. The process of syngamy has been described above (p. 152, Fig. 77). Summarized, it consists essentially of the following processes ; some exceptions are described beloAv : 1. Degeneration and ultimate absorption of the macronucleus of each conjugant. 2. Reducing divisions of the micronucleus to form four micro- nuclei, three of which are absorbed. 3. Division of the single remaining micronucleus into two pro- nuclei, one stationary, the other migratory. 4. Passage of the migratory pronucleus of each conjugant across into the body of the other conjugant, where it fuses with the stationary pronucleus.