THE PROTOZOA 336 the body to the exterior. Usually it passes out 'per anum with the faeces, but when the spores are formed in some internal organ of the body, as in the Mo?iocysiis of the earthworm, it may be necessary for the host to be eaten by some other animal, which then scatters the spores broadcast in its feeces. In all cases, so far as is known, the new host is infected by the casual or contammative method, and in its digestive tract the spores germinate and liberate the sporozoites. In the case of CystoUa mincUnii, parasite of Cucu- maria, it is extremely probable that the host acquires the infection by taking up the spores per anum into its respiratory trees, where the spores germinate (Woodcock). The schizogony characteristic of the schizogregarines takes place during either the second or third of the phases described in the foregoing paragraphs, in trophozoites derived from the sporo- zoites by growth, and it takes various forms which camiot be described in general terms ; a few examples must suffice. 1. Selenidium cauUeryi (Fig. 148): Tlie sporozoite penetrates into a cell of the intestinal epithelium, and grows to a large size, remaining luiinucleate. When fuU -grown, the intracellular parasite gives rise by a process of multiple fission to a great number of motile merozoites which penetrate into epithehal ceUs, grow, and finally become free sporonts. The schizogony of Merogre- garina amaroucii (Porter) is of a similar type, but fewer merozoites are produced by the schizont. 2. In Schizocystis gregarinoides (Fig. 149) the sporozoite attaches itself by its rostrum to an epithelial coll, and as it grows in size its nuclei multiply ; it finally becomes a multinucleate schizont of very large size, which may be either vermiform, and is then attached by an anterior sucker-hke organ to the epithelium, or massive m form, and quite free. When fuU-grown, its body divides up into as many small merozoites as there are nuclei. The merozoites may probably repeat this development and multiply by schizogony again ; or a merozoite may grow, without multiplication of its nucleus, mto a sporont, which proceeds to sporogony of a typical kind. In Schizocystis sipunculi (Dogiel, 603) the schizont has a principal nucleus near its anterior end, and forms a number of secondary nuclei near the limder end of the body, apparently from chromidia given off from the principal nucleus, which loses its clii'omatin. Round the secondary nuclei protoplasm aggregates, and fuiaUy about 150 to 200 merozoites are formed, lodged in a cavity in the cyto- plasm of the schizont. The principal nucleus and the maternal body of the schizont now degenerate, and the merozoites are set free. 3. In Porospom giganiea of the lobster, the largest gregarine known, the fuU-grown individuals round themselves off, become encysted singly, and divide up to form an immense number of so-called " gymnospores " (Fig. 150), each of which consists of a cluster of merozoites grouped round a central mass of residual protoplasm. The subsequent development and the sporogonj- are unknown; the schizogony was formerly mistaken for the sporogony (Leger and Duboscq, 621). In the species Porospora legeri, recently described by Beauchamp (592) from the crab Eripliia spinifrons, a similar process of schizogony is recorded ; but in this case an associated couple or syzygy of two trophozoites becomes encysted together, to undergo a similar jjrocess of non sexual multiijlication. Tlio association is one of two septate trophozoites closely attached, with loss of the protomerite in the posterior individual, as in Didymophyes ; the subse- quent development and sporogony are unknown. Leger and Duboscq (622)