THE PROTOZOA 400 PS. other classes of tissue. A few species arc known to attack the nervous system—for instance, Lentospora {Myxoholus) cerehralis cause of " Drehkrankheit" in Salmonidce (Plchn), and Myxoholus neuroUus of trout (Schuberg and Schroder). In the tissue attacked the parasite may be concentrated at one spot, so as to form a dis- tnact cyst visible to the naked eye ; or parasite and tissue may be mixed up together in a state of " diffuse infiltration " such that microscopic examination is required to detect the parasite, and as its body becomes used up, to form spores, the tissue becomes in- filtrated with vast numbers of spores lying singly or in groups between the cells. In many species of Myxosporidia, on the other hand, the spore- forming plasmodial phase is found in cavities of the body—^not in any known mstance in the lumen of the digestive tract, but frequently in the gall-bladder or urmary bladder of the host. In such cases the parasite . may lie quite freely in the cavity it inhabits, or may be attached by its pseudopodia to the lining epi- thehum ; in the latter case the attachment is purely mechanical, and does not involve injury to the epithelial cells. As might be expected, the Myxo- sporidia parasitic in tissues are often very deadly to their hosts, and are sometimes the cause of severe epidemics among fishes. Those species, on the other hand, which inhabit cavities with natural means of exit from the body appear to be as harmless to their hosts as are the majority of parasitic Protozoa in nature. The adult trophic phase is usually a large amoeba-hke organism with a distinct ectoplasm and endoplasm. In some species the ectoplasm, which appears to be purely protective in function, ex- hibits vertical striations, or is covered by a fur of short, bristle-like processes, the nature and significance of which are uncertain—as, for example, Myxidium Ueberkuhni, the common parasite of the urinary bladder of the pike {Esox lucius). The form of the body changes constantly, with extrusion of pseudopodia, which are used for locomotion to a limited extent, more often for fixation, but never for food-capture. They may, however, by increasing the body-surface, increase also the power of absorption of food- -cot Fig. 164. — Ghloromyxum leydigi, parasite of the gall-bladder of the dogfish, skate, etc. ; trophozoite (Plasmodium) in an active state. ecL, Ectoplasm; end., endoplasm; y., yellow globules in the endo- plasm ; sp., spores, each with four polar capsules. After Thelohan, from Mmohin, magnified 525.