229 THE SARCODINA The swarm-spores arc liberated from the cyst and live freely, fcedmg and multiplvin'^ by binary fission, in which the nucleus divides by mitosis and the Ncbcnkern°acts like a centrosome. After a time, however, the swarm-spores lose their flagella, and become amoebula; which develop mto the adult phase. SyjK^amy was not observed, but probably takes place between the flagellulae. Two°new parasitic species of Paramosba have been described recently by Janicki (71-5); see p. 95. , t 4.1, To the order Amcsbaia should be referred, probably, the parasite ot the Malpighian tubules of the rat-flea {Ceratophyllus fasciatus), described by Minchin under the name Malpighidla refringens, and the parasite of Ptychodera minuta, described by Sun under the name Protoentospora ptychoderce. The section Lobo3a Testacea or Thecamoebae contains a number of free-living forms familiar to every microscopist, such as the genera Difflugia (Fig. 16), Gentropyxis, Arcella (Fig. 32), etc. The majority of these forms inhabit fresh water, but Trichosphcerium (Fig. 81) is marine. Their common distinctive feature, in addition to the possession of lobose pseudopodia, is the formation of a shell or house into which they can be withdrawn entirely. The shell may be secreted by the animal, and then is chitinous {Arcella) or gelat- inous {TrichospTicerium), or may be made up of various foreign bodies cemented together {Difflvgia). Typically the house has the form of a chamber with a single large opening, through which the pseudopodia are extruded at one pole. When the animal multiplies by fission, the protoplasm streams out through the aperture, and forms a daughter-shell external to the old one, after which division of the nucleus takes place and the two sister-individuals separate. In Trichosphcerium, however, the house has the form of a gelatinous investment to the body, with several apertures through which pseudopodia protrude, and when the animal divides the investing envelope divides with it. The protoplasmic body contains typically one nucleus—some- times more than one—surrounded by a ring of chromidia. In Arcella vulgaris there are constantly two primary nuclei; in Difflugia urceolata, from ten to thirty. Trichosphcerium possesses many nuclei, but no chromidia. The life-cycle, so far as is known, is of various types ; those of Arcella and Trichosphcerium are described above (p. 177, Fig. 80, and p. 181, Fig. 81). The latter, with an alternation of generations combined with dimorphism in the adult condition, approaches that of the Foraminifera in character. In the testaceous amoebae the method of division varies in accordance with the nature of the shell. In those in which the shell is soft and yielding, as, for example, Cochliopodium and Cryptodifflugia, the division is longitudinal —i.e., in a plane which includes the axis passing through the mouth and apex of the shell (Doflein, 239); in Cryptodifflugia rapid division of this kind may lead to colony-formation. In forms with a rigid shell, on the other hand, such as Difflugia, Arcella, Gentropyxis, etc., the shell sets a limit to the growth of the animal, which, when it has filled the shell, ceases to grow for a while