THE PROTOZOA be great variation, from long, slender to short, stumpy types and ated The prmcipal nucleus or trophonucleus is usually situatorl Snd TT^ 1 1°'^* ^''"^ kinetonucleus is almost fn^arlty behuad the trophonucleus,* sometimes close behind it, but more usually near the posterior extremity, separated from the tropho- nucleus by about half the length of the body. The flagellum arises from a centriole (blepharoplast) which is in connection with the kinetonucleus. In the more primitive type of arrangemen the blepharoplast is lodged within the kinetonucleus itseU, and then the flagellum appears to arise from the kineto- nucleus directly (Wenyon, 84). In most cases, however, the blepharoplast is situated close beside, and usuaUy in front of the kinetonucleus, connected with it by a delicate rhizoplast. When the blepharoplast is distinct from the kinetonucleus, it is at present an open question whether the kinetonucleus contains a centriole of Its own, m addition to the blepharoplast, or whether the blepharo- plast represents a centriole which belongs to the kinetonucleus, but has migrated to the exterior of this body. Passing from the blepharoplast to the surface of the body the HageUum forms the free border of the undulating membrane, which runs forward from the vicinity of the kinetonucleus to the extreme anterior end of the body as a fui-like ridge or fold of the periplast of variable width (c/. Fig. 126). The flagellum may in some cases end with the undulating membrane at the anterior end of the body, but more usuaUy it is prolonged forward beyond this point, so that a free portion of variable length is to be distinguished from the mar- ginal portion contained in the undulating membrane. The smuous body, the undulating membrane, and the flageUum, are ahke in a state of incessant movement during life, and in larger forms con- tractile myonemes are clearly visible in the periplast of the body (Fig. 28, p. 58) ; in the more minute individuals the presence of such elements must be inferred from their movements, but caimot always be demonstrated optically. The movements of a trypanosome, speaking generally, are of two types : travelling movements, when it progresses with the free flagellum forwards, sometimes very fast, shooting across the iield of the microscope in a straight line {mouvement en fleche), sometimes, on the other hand, pushing its way a lowly through the blood-corpuscles, mth the flageUum directed either forwards or backwards in movement; and wriggling movements, when the animal writhes incessantly in serpentine contortions with httle or no displacement * The only Imown exceptions are furnished by certain forms of the recently- described T. rhodesiense {vide Stephens and Tantham), and by some of the smaU forms seen during the multiplication of T. lewisi (Fig. 127, L). It is needless to point out that the statement made above applies to the typical trypaaosomo-form as found in the vertebrate blood, and not to the developmental forms through which they pass in the invertebrate host (crithidial and other types).