416 THE PROTOZOA bSi. th? ^""'""'^"y- important variations are St to O IV "'?f' «Pore-f ormation and in the vogotativo or multiplicative fnoro Tn r;, 7 / ^T"? ^''''^'^ '^^'''^ ^'^^ 'P"""""* to a single aporc. in llieloliama cha'togaslns, studied by Schroder (781), for examnle the sporonts are distinguished from the meronts by being enclosed in ^ delicate cyst, withm which the sporont multiplies by successive divisions mto eight uninucleate sporoblasts (Fig. 173), connected at first by a central mass ot protoplasm like a rosette ; but as soon as the sporocyst is formed the sporoblasts become separate. The nucleus of each sporoblast divides until there are five, two for the amoebula, one for the polar capsule, and two tor the sporocyst, and the development is similar to that of the spore of iv osema bombycis already described. A noteworthy feature of many Microsporidia is that the spores formed are ot two sizes, microspores and macrospores, which may differ considerably in their dimensions. In Pleistophora longifilis the macrospores are 12 fi in length by 6 M in breadth, while the microspores are 2 or 3 m in length and broad m proportion (Schuberg). It is very probable that these differences are related to differences in sex of the contained amoebulaj, and that the two kinds of spores produce macrogametes and microgametes respectively. Fig. 173.—Stages in the spore-formation of Thdohania chmtogastris. A, Uni- nucleate sporont; B, G, division of its nucleus into two ; D, E, F, G, division of the nucleus and body into four ; H, division into eight sporoblasts ; /, eight sporoblasts, each with the nucleus dividing again ; J, two sporoblasts from a clump, showing further divisions of the nuclei; K, young spore showing two parietal and three central nuclei (nucleus of the capsulogenous cell and two nuclei of the amoebula). After Schroder (781). In Pleistophora periplanetce, according to Shiwago, several planonts (" amceboids ") fuse into a plasmodium; their nuclei become resolved into chromidia wMch become mixed together—a process interpreted by Shiwago as chromidiogamy. From the chromidia secondary nuclei are formed, which become the nuclei of the sporonts (" daughter-amceboids "). The sporonts become free from the plasmodium and form spores. If this account be con- firmed, it is clear that the alleged autogamy of the Microsporidia, if it occurs, is not necessarily an autogamy without amphimixis. In Thdohania mcenadis, according to Perez (778), the nucleus of the sporont becomes resolved into a cloud of chromidia, from which the eight nuclei of the sporoblasts are recon- structed. . , The greatest difference in the vegetative phase from the condition described for Nosema bombycis is seen m the genus Glugea, where the multiplication of the meront leads to the formation of a multinucleate plasmodium—a result easily explained on the supposition that the nucleus of the meront divides repeatedly, but the body as a whole does not do so. In this way a relatively large plasmodial trophozoite, comparable to that of the Myxosporidia, is pro-