THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 33 m where a thin cuticle is present Avliich permits changes in shape, caused by the contractility of the enclosed protoplasmic body. Such forms are not amoeboid, but exhibit rhythmical changes of form produced by contractions of the superficial body-layer in a manner somewhat recalling peristaltic movement, and are com- monly said to be metabolic (Fig. 15); and since such movements are characteristic of some species of the genus Euglena, they are sometimes called euglenoid. In most cases, however, in which a cuticle or firm cortex is present, a definite and characteristic body-form is main- tained, subject only to.such changes, as may result from curvatures of the body, or temjoorary shortening of its axis in a particular direction, brought about by the contractility of the living body. An envelope of this kind, which may vary in consistence from a thin, flexible cuticle to a rigid inflexible cuirass, or " lorica," inliibits completely the natural tendency of the fluid protoplasmic body to round itself oil—a tendency, however, which frequently reasserts itself during resting phases of the organism, when the cortex may be softened or absorbed. Hence it is very common to find that the resting phases of Protozoa revert to the primi- tive spherical form, whatever the shape characteristic of the organism in an active state. A close-fitting cortex or cuticle which is essentially a part of the body itself must be distinguished clearly from struc- tures buflt up by the organism externally Fig. IS.—AstasiarteJiax, two to the body to afford shelter or support. Such a structure is termed variously a "shell," "test," or "house." The formation of protective shells, into which the body can be completely retracted, and from which it can emerge to a greater or less extent, is of extremely common occurrence amongst the naked-bodied Sarcodina. The forms of these shells, their structure and mode of formation, exhibit an almost infinite variety, and can only be described here in a quite general manner. individuals showing the changes of form duoj^to metabolic movement, ocs., Oesophagus ; c.r., reservoir of the contractile vacuole ; N., nucleus. After Stein.