THE GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROTOZOA 191 the body-substanco of their prey, probably by the aid of secreted ferments. Together with the food a certain amount of water is ingested, forming a drop or food-vacuole in which the actual digestion takes place. The quantity of water ingested with the food varies considei'ably, and, speaking generally, is inversely pro- portional to the size of the object that is devoured ; that is to say, small food-particles, such as bacteria, lie as a rule in a very distinct vacuole, but large bodies, such as diatoms, usually appear as if imbedded in the cytoplasm, with no liquid vacuole visible around them. AmoebaB not infrequently devour organisms larger than themselves, so that the cytoplasm of the amoeba appears hke a thin sldn or envelope over the surface of the prey. According to Greenwood (161), Amceba proteus takes in but little fluid when it ingests quiescent sohd matter, such as starch-grains or yeast-cells, but when actively-moving prey is dealt with an area of water not inconsiderable surrounds it; on the other hand, non-nutritious particles are not surrounded by fluid when they lie in the endoplasm. In forms in which food is ingested through a cytostome, as in Ciliata, the food-particles, usually of smaU size, are wafted down the oesophagus and coUect at its proximal blind end, where a depres- sion arises in the endoplasm, which gradually deepens, and finally closes over and separates from the oesophagus as a closed vacuole containing the food. According to Nirenstein (181), the food- vacuole is detached from the oesophagus by suction of the'endoplasm, hke a process of swaUowing (" Schlingvorgang "). The vacuole is at first immured in a thin layer of less fluid protoplasm, doubtless as the effect of contact with water (see p. 44); consequently the vacuole is not at first circular, but often spindle-shaped in its contours ; it soon, however, assumes a spherical form, indicating that its protoplasmic envelope has become liquefied. ^ In cases where actively-motile organisms are devoured—as for example flagellates by amoebae-the prey can often be seen to per- form violent movements within the vacuole ; but soon the — ■ —, '^KA.v avujxi. (jiio move- ments become feebler and cease entirely. Bacteria ingested bv Parameaum become immobUe about thirty seconds after the vacuole has become detached from the oesophagus. In many cases however, the prey is kiUed when seized by the pseudopocMa, anci before being mgested, as in Hehozoa and Foraminifera. After the prey is killed it is slowly digested within the food-vacuole l)urmg the process of digestion the food-vacuole may perform defimte migrations within the body of the animal. In amoeba the without, however, pursuing any definite course, and they tend to tTvlnlTnTlV".''^^ '''' ^^e animll IS moving m a definite cbrection. In the Infusoria, on the other