THE PROTOZOA 94 According to the achromatinic theory, the centrosome is "an individualized portion of the achromatinic nuclear substance" (Hertwig, 66), a kinetic centre on which the movements of the framework are focussed. The essential and primary constituent of the centrosome is the centriole, and so long as the centrosome remains intranuclear, as in perhaps the majority of Protozoa, it consists of the centriole alone. When, however, the centrosome becomes extranuclear, as in many Protozoa and almost universally Pia. 49.—Paramosba eilhardi: stages of the life-cycle. A, Amoeba in the vegetative stage : N., nucleus ; n.k., " Nobenkem " ; d., ingested diatom. B, 0, D, Stages in tho multiplication of the encysted amoeba ; in B the Nebenkern has divided up, the nucleus is still midivided ; in 0 the nucleus has divided up into a number of daughter-nuclei, each of which has paired with a daughter- Nebenkern ; in D the body has divided into a number of daughter-colls, each containing a nucleus and a Nebenkern. E, A free-swimming flagellula, derived from one of the daughter-cells in D, and containing a nucleus and a Nebenkern. F, 0, H, I, Four stages of tho division of a flagellula ; in F the Nebenkern is dividing ; in O the two halves of tho Nebenkern have placed themselves on each side of the nucleus, which is preparing for division; H, stage of the nuclear spindle with the two halves of the Nebenkern at each pole ; in / the nuclear division is nearly complete, and the body is beginning to divide. After Schaudinn (81), all figures magnified about 500 diameters. in the cells of the higher animals and plants, accessory cytoplasmic elements may be added to the centriole to form a centrosomic complex. A point still undecided, on the theory that centrosomes are of achromatinic origin, is whether or no these bodies can be formed, in some cases, in the cytoplasm also, as maintained by some authorities. On Hertwig's view, mentioned above, that the achromatinic substance of the nucleus is identical in nature Avith the ground-substance of the general protoplasm, it follows that material for the formation of the centrosome must be present in the cyto-