THE PROTOZOA 258 of this kind leads to the formation of a colony, which may attain to dimensions relatively largo, though composed of individuals of minute size. The colony may be free-swimming or fixed, and in the latter case is frequently arborescent in form. In many cases the colonies of Flagellata show a differentiation of the constituent individuals into vegetative and generative individuals—the former not capable of reproduction, but purely trophic in function ; the latter destined to be set free, and to produce new colonies, with or without going through a process of syngamy. Bionomics.—In their modes of life the Flagellata exhibit all the four types described in Chapter II. (p. 13), diiierent forms being holozoic, holophytic, saprophytic, or parasitic ; and one and the same form may live in different ways during different periods of its hfe-history, according to circumstances. The parasitic flagellates have attracted a great deal of attention of recent years, on account of their importance in causing disease in man and animals. Ectozoic parasites may occur in aquatic forms, as for example Costia, para- sitic on the skin of fishes. The entozoic forms are parasitic for the most part in the digestive tract, or in the blood and lymph of their hosts. Parasitic flagellates are found in the intestines of practically all classes of the Metazoa, and especially in arthropods and vertebrates; those parasitic in blood and lymph are found especially in vertebrates, and constitute an important group commonly termed as a whole the Hsemoflagellates, to which a special chapter will be devoted. From forms which were probably parasitic originally in the blood have arisen secondarily forms parasitic in cells which in their intracellular phase lose their flagellum entirely {Leishmania). Many of the intestinal flagellates, especially in vertebrates, are probably not true parasites at all, but for the most part scavengers. In any case their pathogenic role appears to be very limited ; but in some cases a pathological condition of the host may be combmed in a suspicious manner with great numbers of the parasites (compare Bohne and Prowazek, Noc). It is worthy of note that in some cases an intestinal parasite may pass from the mtestme into the blood or lymph under pathological conditions of the host. This condition seems to have been noticed first by Danilewsky, who described cases of frogs and tortoises which had been kept long in captivity and were in bad condition, thin, and with cedematous swellings in the muscles and transudation of lymph into the peritoneal cavity; in such animals there were found in the blood and lymph, especiaUy in the oedemata and trans- udations, abundant flagellates of the genus Hexamitus (=Octomitus, big. lib), of a species which in normal, healthy animals is found only m the intestme. A number of similar cases have been recorded by Plimmer (383 and i resi- dential Address to the Royal Microscopical Society, 1912), who found both Odomitus and Trichomonas in the blood of various batrachia and reptiles The conditions under which these intestinal parasites pass into the blood annears to be strictly comparable to those under which the Leydema-ioTm TSMamydopkrys paLs ii^^to the ascitic fluid (p. 237)^. Whether in sijch cases the migration of the parasite is the cause of the diseased state of the host or whether, as seems more likely, the abnormal condition of the host Tes the parasite an opportunity of spreading into fresh Pastures m t Remain for the present an open question; but, accordmg to Plimmer, the presence of intestinal flagellates in the blood-circulation is associated with dSnS and recognizable lesions of the intestiiial wall. In any case the tt that intestinSl flagellates can pass into the blood is a pomt which is probably of phylogenetic as well as of practical importance (p. rf/^).