372 THE PROTOZOA monly in the latter as the so-called " leucocytozoa," not to be con- fused with the true leucocytozoa dealt with in the last section. HjBmogregarines present themselves usually as more or less elongated parasites of quite definite form, sausage-shaped or worm- like, not amoeboid, lying within the blood-corpuscle. The middle of the body is occupied by a conspicuous nucleus, and there are often numerous metachromatinic grains in addition, but no melanin- pigment is produced. The parasite may be hberated from the corpuscle as a free vermicule, the resemblance of which to a small gregarine is accentuated by its active gliding movements ; Hberation of the vermicules may often be seen when the blood is drawn, but no " exflagellation " ever occurs, since, as will be seen when the development is described, the microgametes are formed in a manner totally different from that characteristic of the hsemamoebag. In many hsemogregarines the body of the parasite, when lodged within the blood-corpuscle, is enclosed in a distinct capsule or mem- brane, which may be of considerable thickness, and often stains deeply. When the parasite is liberated from the corpuscle, the capsule may be left behind as a conspicuous enclosure of the cor- puscle, which has puzzled some observers, and has even been described as a distinct form of parasite (compare Sambon and Seligmann). In H. bicapsulata the capsule is thickened at the two extremities of the sausage-shaped body to form two caps, plainly visible in the living condition, and staining a bright red colour in preparations made with the Romanowsky-stain (Franca, 712). Different species of hsemogregarines differ considerably in their appearance and size relatively to the blood-corpuscle in which they are lodged, and distinct genera have been founded on these differ- ences ; but as yet the complete life-cycle is known in so few cases that it is not possible at present to draw up a classification of these parasites that can have any pretence to be natural. The following are the principal genera that have been suggested for these parasites. Lankesterdla {Drepanidium) is of very small size, the full-grovra vermicule being not more than two-thirds of the length of the blood-corpuscle ; type, L. ranarum {minima), parasitic in the blood-corpuscles of the frog. In Karyolysus the parasite is about the same length as the corpuscle, or slightly shorter ; the generic name is derived from the action of the parasite on the nucleus of the host-cell, which is often broken up and " karyolysed," though not invariably. This form of parasite is especially common in Reptilia Squamata, lizards and snakes; type, K. lacertarum. In the genus Hcemo- areqarina (sens, strict.) the fuU-grown vermicule is much longer than the corpuscle, within which it is doubled on itself in the form of the letter U, with the nucleus situated at the bend; type, H. stepanowi of European water- tortoises, Emys lutaria and Cistudo europcea. Finally there are the " leueo- cvtozoa '' of mammals, for which the generic names Hepaiozoon, Miller, and Leucocytogregarina, Porter, have been proposed; if it becomes necessary to separate them from the genus Hcemogregarina, MiUer's name has the priority, as Wenyon (690) has pointed out. The fact, however, of parasitism in a while