225 THE SARCODINA fission of the ordinary typo, and also by a process of multiple fission is which the nucleus divides until there are eight nuclei in the body; the characteristic 8-nucloate plasmodium then divides up into eight small amoebae, each of which grows into an ordinary adult form. Hence it in characteristic of E. coli to occur in various sizes, from very small to full-grown amoebae. The propagative phase of E. coli is initiated by the formation of a gelatinous envelope roimd a full-sized amoeba possessing a single nucleus. The nucleus then divides into two, and the process of maturation and autogamy takes place that has been described on p. 139, supra (Fig. 73). When it is complete, a tough resistant cyst is formed within the soft gelatuaous enVelope, and each of the two S3mkarya divides twice to produce four nuclei. Thus is formed the 8-nucleate resistant cyst which is characteristic, perhaps diagnostic, of this species. Within the cyst no further changes take place until it is swallowed by a new host; then it is believed that the contents of the cyst divide up into eight uninucleate amcebulae, which are set free in the colon and are the starting-point of a new infection. Schaudinn was able to infect himself by swallowing the 8-nucleate cysts of the amoeba. Prowazek {A.P.K., xxii., p. 345) has described a variety of E. coli under the name E. williamsi. E. histolytica reproduces itself in the amoeboid phase by bmary fission and by a process of gemmation in which the nucleus multiplies by division, and then small amoebulae, each with a single nucleus, are budded off from the surface of the body. In the process of gemma- tion, however, the number of nuclei in the body is irregular, and not definitely eight, as in E. coli. In its propagative phase E. histolytica does not form a cyst round the whole body, but its nucleus becomes resolved into chromidia, which collect in patches near the surface of the body. Little buds are then formed as outgrowths of the body, each bud containing a clump of chromidia. Round each bud a sporocyst is formed of so tough and impervious a character that no further cytological study of the bud is possible. The resistant spores formed in this way separate from the Dociy, ot which the greater part remains as residual protoplasm and dies off. ine mmute spores are the means of infecting a new host, as shown by ocnaudmn in experiments on cats, which are particularly susceptible to the attacks of this amoeba. ^ Schaudinn's investigations, of which a brief summary has been given in the toregomg paragraphs, first introduced clear ideas into the problem of the numan entozoic amoebae. Many of the works of subsequent investigators nave tended, however, rather to confuse and perplex the question, for various reasons. In the first place, in cultures made from human faeces, free-living fTrnn!i^''fl v''^''!-^ °^ amoebac make their appearance, which have passed tnrougn the digestive tract in an encysted condition, and emerge from their 15 Fig. 90.—Entamoeba histolytica. A, Young specimen; B, an older specimen crammed with ingested blood-corpuscles; 0, D, E, three figures of a living amoeba which contains a nucleus and three blood- corpuscles, to show the changes of form and the ectoplasmic pseudopodia : n., nucleus ; h.c, blood-corpuscles. After Jiirgens.