CLASSIFICATION OF THE MAIN SUBDIVISIONS 463 Hartmann (892) recognizes six classes of the Protozoa : Class I. the Sarco- dim including four subclasses-namely, Rlnzopoda, Hehozoa, Radiolaria, wl Mvcetozoit Class II., the Cnidosporidia, including M.crosporidia, Sarco ;ToridrM^o;poridia, ^nd Actinomyxidia ; Class III the Mastigophora. ffiudin- the Rhizomastigina, Protomonadina, Binucleata, Chromomonadina Eu^lenofdca, and Phytomonadina, the order Binucleata including the Haemo- flacn^Ilatcs and tho Hc-emosporidia with the exception of the hjemogregarmes Class IV., the Telosporidia, including the gregarines, coccidia, and hsemo- gregarincs; Class V., the Trichonymphida; Class VI., the Infusoria. With regard to this classification, the order Binucleata has been dealt with at length above ; it only remains to say that the isolated position given to the Trichonympliida appears to express the defective state of laiowledge con- cerning the affinities of these peculiar parasites, rather than their true taxo- nomic importance. . ^ ,, -n. , A number of radical changes in the classification of the Protozoa are pro- posed by Awerinzew (890). With Hartmann he unites the Hsemoflagellates and Hfemosporidia in an order Binucleata to be placed in the Flagellata. The class Sporozoa is to be entirely abolished. The order Amcebma (Amcebfea) is removed by him entirely from the Sarcodina, which will then comprise only the Foraminifera and some Heliozoa. The Amoebina are to be put with the Flagellata as the Amoeboflagellata, a group from which all other Protozoa are supposed to have arisen, and from which the Amoebina branch off in one direction, tho Flagellata and Dinoflagehata in another. The gre- garmes are believed by Awerinzew to be connected on the one side with tho Amoebina, on the other with the Coccidia. In the Neosporidia, the Sarco- sporidia are regarded as allied to Flagellata ; the Myxosporidia, Mierosporidia, and Actinomyxidia, are considered not to be Protozoa at all; the Haplo- sporidia are to be placed provisionally as an independent group takmg origm from Amoebma. For the Infusoria, it is suggested that they take origin from amoeboflageUate ancestors rather than from true Flagellata. The object of what is termed a natural as opposed to an artificial system of classification is to endeavour to express by the arrange- ment of the groups the affinities of the living organisms concerned, and more especially the genetic relationships of one to another on the theory of evolution—that is to say, on the assumption or belief that forms now existing are descended from older ancestral forms, and that any two existing forms are descended from a common ancestral form more or less remote, according as the two existing forms in question have diverged more or less widely from one another. The foundation of a natural classification is therefore the 'phylogeny of the groups dealt with—that is to say, their pedigrees and lines of descent, so far as they can be traced. Phylogeny must, however, always be a matter of speculation, and to a large extent of personal opinion, rather than of direct observation. It is only possible to infer from the study of existing species what the ancestral forms may have been like, since it is unnecessary to point out that no form can be the ancestor of another species existing at the same time. The most that can be said of two co-existing species is that one of them may be beheved to have diverged much less in its characters from the common ancestral form than the other. When, therefore, a given form is said to have an amoebic or a cer- comonad ancestry, it is not intended to imply by that statement