THE PROTOZOA 172 me: apparent as in the free-swimming species, as, for instance, in Acinetaria, where conjugation can take place between two adjacent individuals each on its own stalk. But in the Vorticellids special free-swimming individuals, microconjugants, are developed which are budded off from a sedentary individual, and then acquire cilia, swim off, and conjugate with another sedentary individual (Fig. 78). It seems obvious that this state of affairs is an adaptation to the exigencies of a sedentary life to insure cross- fertilization analogous to the formation of complemental males in the Cirripedes. The free - swimming microconjugants of Vorti- ceUids are commonly termed " males," but it is open to question whether, strictlj^ speaking, they deserve that title. It is in species with marked differences between young and adult forms that the greatest differentiation of the gametes occurs, though by no means universally even in such forms. In polymorphic species of this type, three different conditions can be distinguished, to which reference has been made in the previous chapter. 1. Macrogamy—that is to say, syngamy between full-grown individuals of the species. In this ty3)e the gametes appear to be always gant) with two microcon- p ^^jy similar, SO far as is known; ex- lugants (m.c.) attached ^ , . ^ . 7 /tt mi \ amples are seen m Achncpirys (Jbig. 7i), the chromidiogamy of Arcella (Fig. 80), and possibly Noctiluca (p. 279). 2. Microgamy — sjTigamy between the youngest individuals, products of the rapid multipHcation of an adult. Conjugation of swarm-spores is by far the commonest tjTpe of syngamy in Protozoa, and may be re- garded as the normal type. In this case there is usually complete iscgamy, as in Foraminifera (p. 235), sometimes sUght anisogamy, as in Radiolaria (p. 254, Fig. 108). 3. Mixed microgamy and macrogamy—that is to say, syngamy between a fuU-sized adult individual on the one hand and a minute individual, a swarm-spore, on the other hand. Tliis type may bo regarded as derived from microgamy by progressive, and finally complete, inhibition of the divisions that produce the swarm-spores in one sex—possibly also with an enhanced tendency to such divisions in the other sex. Thus in Arcella, as described in the previous Fig. 78.— Vorlicella micro- stoma, Ehrb. On the left an ordinary, sedentary individual (macroconju to it, one of which (to the left) is in the act of conjugation. On the right is an individual with the stalk contracted and the body enclosed in a cyst. N, Macro- nucleus ; P, peristome and adoral ciliaiy spiral. After Hickson.