4 THE PROTOZOA Protozoa, then there must heave existed an unbroken series of transitions between these two types of living beings. Hence, as in all attempts to classify living beings, sharp verbal distinctions between Protozoa and Metazoa are rendered possible only through the extinction of intermediate forms, or by ignoring such forms if known to exist. It is expedient rather to recognize distinct types of organization characteristic of the Protozoa and the Metazoa respectively, and to compare and contrast them, than to attempt to limit these groups by precise definitions. 2. " Animals."—This part of the definition raises more difficulties than their cellular nature. In the higher forms of life the distinc- tion between animals and plants is an obvious and natural one ; it is by no means so in the lower organisms. In the ranks of the simplest living creatures, those of animal nature are not marked off by any sharply defined structural or other features from those of vegetable nature, and cannot be separated from them in any scheme of classification which claims to be founded upon, or to express, the true natural affinities and relationships of the objects dealt with. As will be explained more fully in the next and subsequent chapters, the distinction between animal and vegetable is, at its first appear- ance, nothing but a difference in the mode in which the organisms obtain their living. Forms that are obviously closely allied in all their characters may differ in this respect, and in some cases even one and the same species may nourish itself at one time as a plant, at another as an animal, according to circumstances. In short, the difference between plant and animal is primarily a distinction based upon habits and modes of life, and, like all such distinctions, does not furnish characters that can be utilized for systematic classifica- tion until the mode of life has continued so long, and the habit has become so engrained, as to leave an impress upon the entire structural characteristics of the organism. The Protozoa cannot therefore be defined strictly and con- sistently as organisms of animal nature, for, though the vast majority of them certainly exhibit animal characteristics, it is impossible to exclude from the group many which live temporarily or permanently after the manner distinctive of the vegetable kingdom, and which are plants, to aU intents and purposes, leading on in an unbroken series to the simplest algae. For this reason it has been proposed to unite all the simplest and most primitive forms of life in one " Idngdom " under the title Protista {Protistenreich, Haeckel), irrespective of their habit of life and metabolism, whether animal or vegetable. The kmgdom Protista is then to be considered as equivalent in systematic value to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, which in their turn are restricted in their application to true animals and plants as ordinarily