THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA 341 not likely to be of classificatory value. The classification of the future will probably be one which divides all gregarines into Cepha- lina and Acephalina, and distributes the schizogregarines amongst these two divisions. At present the following families of schizogregarines are recog- nized : Ophryocystidce, Scldzocystidce, Selenidiidce, Merogregarinidce, and Porosporidce. For the family Aggregatidce see p. 353. Oeder II.—COCOIDIA. The chief characteristics of the Coccidia are that, with very few exceptions, the parasites are of intracellular habitat during the trophic phase, and that a number of spores or sporozoites are produced within a cyst, all of which are the offspring of a single zygote. Further, there is always an alternation of generations, non-sexual multiplicative schizogony alternating with sexual propagative sporogony. As a general rule the entire life-cycle is confined to a single host, but in one family (Aggregatidce) an alterna- tion of hosts occurs, corresponding with the alternation of genera- tions ; that is to say, the schizogony takes place in one host, the sporogony in another. Coccidia are found as parasites of various groups of the animal kmgdom. In contrast to gregarines, they are found sparingly in Insects, and, indeed, in Arthropods generally with the exception of Myriopods ; but they occur commonly in Molluscs, and especially in Vertebrates of all classes. They are found also in Annelids, but not abundantly, and in Flat-Worms (TurbeUaria) and Nemertuies. A parasite of the gregarine Gystohia chiridotce has been identified by Dogiel (602) as a coccidian, and given the name Hyalosphcera gregarinicola. The intracellular trophozoite is typically a motionless body, spherical, ovoid, or bean-shaped, often with a considerable resem- blance to an ovum ; hence these parasites were formerly spoken of as egg-like psorosperms (" eiformige Psorospermien"), and the same idea is expressed in such a name as Coccidium oviforme, given by Leuckart to the famihar parasite of the rabbit now generally known as C. cuniculi (or G. stiedce). The same deceptive resemblance extends to the propagative phases, and the eggs of parasitic worms have before now been mistaken for coccidian cysts, or vice versa. The mfection of the host takes place in every case, so far as is known at present, by the casual or contaminative method. Resis- tant spores or cysts of the parasite are swallowed accidentally with the food, and germinate in the digestive tract. The sporozoites escape and are actively motile ; in the majority of cases they pene- trate mto cells of the intestinal epithehum, but they may under-