THE PROTOZOA 156 It can hardly be supposed that the time-factor alone can account for the exhaustion or depression of the 'vital faculties. It is gener- ally admitted that unicellular organisms, such as the Protozoa, tend, after a greater or less number of generations, to exhibit a certain degree of exhaustion in their vital properties, or, it may be, of derangement in their organization and vital mechanisms. Hert- wig (164) is of opinion that " the conditions of death exist in the living substance from the begmning, and are a necessary conse- quence of its vital function "—a generalization which may be accepted for those Protista in which the body exhibits the degree of specialization and structural complication proper to a true cell (as the term is understood in this book—see p. 98) ; but it is very doubtful if it is tlue also for the simplest forms of life, such as the bacteria and allied organisms. If it be further admitted that syngamy is the natural remedy in unicellular organisms for a natural disease, the problem before us is to discover, if possible, the precise nature of the derangements, and of the method by which the remedy restores them to the normal functional condition. At the outset, attention must be drawn to a very constant and general preliminary to syngamy ui Protozoa—namely, the elimina- tion of a large amount of chromatin which appears to have been regulating the vital activities durmg previous generations (vegeta- tive chromatin), and its replacement by chromatin which has been inactive and lying in reserve (generative chromatin). This process is seen in its most striking form in the Ciliata, where the macro- nucleus is entirely eliminated during the act of syngamy, and is replaced in subsequent generations by a new macronucleus derived from the micronucleus formed by fusion of portions of the micro- nuclei of the partners in syngamy. Hence it might seem as if the chief result of syngamy was to replace effete vegetative chromatin by fresh generative substance which through inactivity has retained its powers unimpaired. But in the first place it must be pointed out that, to effect a replacement of this kind, the union of two individuals is not necessary ; it would be sufficient for a single individual to form a new nucleus from its store of generative chromatm, and to get rid of its old, effete vegetative chromatin. If we regard the chromidia of Arcella as composed of generative chromatin, the buds produced by formation of secondary nuclei from the chromidia would rejpresent nuclear regeneration of this kind. Secondly, it is open to doubt how far the theory of vegeta- tive and generative chromatin can be applied throughout the whole series. In such forms as Arcella the chromidial mass, although it furnishes the gamete-nuclei, is a cell-element in a functional con- dition, and in the more primitive forms the distinction between vegetative and generative chromatin cannot be pressed so far as