SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA 141 aud ciiclure the vicissitudes of tlie outer world, until taken up by a new host in which the parasite is set free from its cyst and starts upon a fresh cycle of growth or multiplication without syngamy, under the most favourable conditions of nutrition. 2. As regards the effects of syngamy upon the species, it must be pomted out, in the first place, that a great difference exists between multicellular and unicellular organisms as regards the effects of external conditions of life upon the sexual process. In Metazoa the germ-cells, as already pointed out, are a race of cells apart, and are sheltered by then- position in the body from the direct effects of external conditions—at least, to a very large extent. In Protozoa, on the other hand, there is no special race or strain of germ-cells, but any individual may become a gamete or the progenitor of gametes, and all alike are exposed to the direct action of the environment. If, now, Protist organisms placed under slightly different conditions of existence, tend to vary in their characters as a direct consequence of environmental influences, syngamy would check any such tendency, and would, on the con- trary, tend to keep a given species constant and uniform in char- acter, within narrow limits. Were there no mtermingling of distmct strains, such as syngamy brings about, individuals of a species subject to different conditions of life would tend to give rise to divergent strains and races ; sjoigamy levels up such diver- gencies and keeps the tendency to variation withm the specific limits (compare Enriques, 112 and 113; Pearl, 124). If this sup- position be correct, it would follow that no true species could exist until syngamy had been evolved ; and if it be true that no syngamy occurs in organisms of the bacterial type of organization, then such organisms must be regarded as having diverged under direct environmental influences into distmct races and strains, but not as constituting true species. The "species" of bacteria would then be comparable to the races of the domestic dog, rather than to the natural species of the genus Canis. Not until syngamy was acquired could true species exist amongst the Protista, a condition which was probably first attained after the cellular grade of organization had been evolved. The conclusions reached in the foregoing paragraphs may be summed briefly as follows : Syngamy is a process of inter- mingling, in a single cell-individual, of chromatm derived from two distinct individuals, gametes, which may exhibit differentiation into " male" individuals, characterized by preponderance of kinetic activity, and " female," in which trophic activities are more i^ronounced. Syngamy is probably of universal occurrence in organisms of the cellular type of organization, and from them has been inherited by the higher plants and animals, but apparently