120 THE PROTOZOA in the life of the cell. It is probable, also, that the elaboration of the process of karyokinetic division in Protista was an indispensable antecedent to the evolution of multieellular organisms, since for the formation of a tissue it is necessary that all the cells which build it up should be perfectly similar in their constitution and properties, and tliis condition could only be brought about, prob- ^b^Y' karyoldnetic division of the nuclei in the process of cell- multiplication. In the foregomg paragraphs we have dealt only with simple (binary) nuclear division, but, as already stated, in some cases the nucleus divides by multiple fission into a number of daughter- nuclei simultaneously. A simple instance of direct multiple division of a nucleus, in which, apparently, no centrioles are present, has been described by Lebedew (93) in the nuclei of Trachelocerca (Fig. 66 ; see also j). 448). In this form partitions are formed within the nucleus between the grains and masses of chromatin, and finally the nucleus becomes segmented into a mulberry-like mass of daughter - nuclei, which separate from one another. In most cases, prob- ably, of multiple fission the nucleus contains a centriole, Fm. 66.—Four stages of direct multiple fission in „„rUliPiTmltinlpfission the nuclei of Trachelocerca fhcenico'pterus. After anatnemultiplenssion Lebedew (93). is brought about in a manner analogous to the formation of a plasmodium by multiplication of the nucleus in a cell which remains undivided—that is to say, the centriole multiplies by fission a number of times without the nucleus as a whole becoming divided. Thus, in a nucleus of the simple protokaryon type, containing at first a single karyosome and cen- triole, division of these structures may take place within the mem- brane without the nucleus as a whole dividing, so that the nucleus contains finally two or more karyosomes, each containing a cen- triole. The karyosomes are ultimately set free from the nucleus, either by being budded of£ singly from it, or by the nucleus as a whole breaking up ; then each karyosome becomes the foundation of a new nucleus. Division of this type, which may be termed a multiiDle promitosis, has been described by Zuelzer (86) m Wa^- nerella. In cases where the division of the nucleus is of the karyo- kinetic type, repeated divisions of the centriole result in the forma- tion of a complicated multipolar mitotic figure, leading to a multiple division of the nucleus, as seen in the divisions of the nuclei m the male sporont of Aggregata (Fig. 67), as described by MorofE (94).