THE NUCLEUS 69 these statements is furnished by the trypanosomes parasitic m vertebrate blood : on the one hand, these parasites often contain in their cytoplasm so-called " chromatoid grains," probably of the nature of volutin (Swellengrebel, 514), which stain in a similar manner to the nucleus ; on the other hand, the nuclei ot the parasites react to stains in a manner very different from the nuclei of the blood-cells amongst which they live. In short, it is not possible to name any stain or class of stains which can be relied upon either to combine with chromatin alone, or to stain chromatin in the same manner and to the same degree, at all times and in all cases* (compare Fig. 33). When, therefore, the adjectives " chromatinic" and " achromatinic " are used in the course of this work, it must be clearly understood that these terms signify that the bodies or substances to which they are applied con- sist or do not consist, as the case may be, of chromatin, and not that they stain or do not stam with certain dyes. As regards the chemical nature of chro- matin, it is characterized by containing protein-substances more complex in com- position than any other part of the cell; it is not possible to say definitely, however, whether it is to be regarded as a single chemical substance or as a combination or mixture of several. Its most salient feature is its variability; judged by microchemical tests, no two samples of chromatin can be considered identical in composition, whether from different cells or even from the same cell at different times. Certain substances, especially phosphorus-compounds, are espe- cially characteristic of nucleo-proteins, but it is not possible at the present time to define or identify chromatin by its chemical properties or composition. All experience at the present time tends to show that the final test for the identification of chromatin in the cell is its relation to the vital activities and life-history of the organism. The term "chromatin" is thus to be regarded as denoting a biological or physiological, but not a chemico-physical, unity. A given body * Methyl-green, acidulated with acetic acid, has sometimes been indicated as a most distinctively nuclear stain ; but Hertwig (64) has shown that in the nuclei of Aclinosphcerium this .stain colours the plastin-framcwork, and not the chro- matin, and this author casts doubt on the alleged value of this stain as a reagent for demonstrating chromatin in the nucleus. Fig. 33.—Diagram to repre- sent in a graphic manner the action of colouring matters that stain chro- matin. The circle drawn with an uninterrupted lino is supposed to represent a theoretically perfect chromatin - stain, which would stain chromatin always, and nothing else but chromatin; the circles drawn with interrupted lines represent the action of chromatin stains actu- ally ; they will stain chro- matin as a general rule, though notinvariably, but they will also stain other things which are not chro- matin.