THE PROTOZOA 80 the stnations themselves being the optical expression of a radiate arrangement of the protoplasmic alveoli (meshes of the "retic- ulum "), indicating Imes of force or tension centred in the centro- some. In some cases it is probable that archoplasm showing radiate striations may be present without any centrosome. In Actinosphasrium Hertvvig showed that rays were formed in the archoplasm before a centrosome had been formed, and heralded its appearance. When the centrosome lies within the nucleus, it is found most frequently, in Protozoa, within a plastin-body or karyosome, a position which it may retaui permanently durmg both the resting and dividmg conditions of the nucleus. The simple nuclei of the protokaryon-type probably contain in most cases a centro- somic grain lodged in the karyosome. In a few cases, however, an intranuclear centrosome occurs without a karyosome, or outside the karyosome if one is present. On the other hand, there are many examjiles of the occurrence of extranuclear centrosomes in Protozoa ; but these are for the most part cases in which the centro- some is in relation, not only to the kinetic functions of the nucleus, but also to those of other cell-organs, as will be described presently. Nuclei containing centrosomes have been termed " centronuclei" by Boveri. The centrosome is seen, as a general rule, under the form of a mmute grain, or centriole. This is the form in which it occurs invariably when it has an intranuclear position, lodged within the karyosome. But when it occurs outside the nucleus, it exhibits structural peculiarities which may vary at different periods, and it often presents cyclical changes correspondmg to different phases of the activity of the nucleus. Thus, m ActinosphcErium, Hertwig (64) describes the centrosome at its first appearance as a relatively large body of spongy structure, formed at one ^Dole of the nucleus from extruded portions of the achromatinic reticulum (Fig. 37, A—E). At this stage, in which the centrosome is termed a centrosphere, it lies in a patch of archoplasm, and is the centre of a well-marked system of radiations. The centrosphere then gives rise, by con- densation of its substance, to two centrioles, or to one which divides, and at the same time the archoplasmic radiations become famter and disappear (Fig. 37, F, O). The centrioles then take part in the division of the nucleus, and when this process is complete they again become spongy centrospheres, which go through the same series of successive changes that have already been described. Ana- logous cyclical changes of the centrosome have also been described in other cases, and have led to a conflict of opinion as to whether the term " centrosome " should be applied to the whole centrosomic complex, as it may be termed, or to the centrioles, of which many