THE HiEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED EORMS 311 dulating incmbrcane only extends along two-thirds of the length of the body, after Avhich the posterior flagellum becomes free. The kinetonucleus, situated at the extreme anterior end of the body, is relatively very large, usually exceeding the trophonucleus in size, and is sometimes constricted into two or three portions, but is generally a compact mass which stains deeply in preparations. In T. helicis, according to JoUos, it is prolonged backwards into fibrils, usually two in number, which extend some way down the body, and are probably comparable to an axostyle. The tropho- nucleus has a vesicular structure with a conspicuous karyosome. Its position in the body varies, being in some species close behind the Idnetonucleus, in others near the middle of the body. It often appears to be lodged completely in the undulating membrane, which in this genus is often very broad and less sharply defined than in a trypanosome, appearing as the border of a flattened body. The cytoplasm frequently contains numerous " chromatoid grains," Trypanoplasms in the blood of fishes often exhibit marked polymorphism, with two extremes of size, small and large (Fig. 134, B, G). According to Keysselitz (454), the large forms are the gametes which conjugate in the leech, and are distinguishable as male and female forms, but the statement requires confirmation. From the investigations of Robertson (503) on the development, it appears more probable that the large forms are simply full-grown individuals, ripe for multiplication by fission. Unfortunately, next to nothing is known of the reproduction of the parasites in the vertebrate host, though it has been observed that their numbers are subject to considerable fluctuations, and that a fish showing at one time a very scanty infection of the blood may have a " relapse," and appear later well infected. Keysselitz accuses these parasites of pathogenic properties, but this charge is founded on observations on fish in captivity, in which weakened powers of resistance may lead to abnormal activities on the part of the parasite (compare also Neresheimer). The development of blood - trypanoplasms in the invertebrate host, which is in all known cases some species of leech, appears to be of a comparatively simple type as compared with that of trypano- somes, and consists of little more than rapid multiplication by binary fission to produce a swarm of relatively small trypano- plasms, some of which, more slender and elongate in form, pass forwards into the proboscis, and are inoculated by the leech into a fish. Conspicuous in this development, as compared with that of trypanosomes, is the entire absence of any uniflagellate forms, crithidial or other. So long as a trypanoplasm is in an active state', it IS mvariably biflagellate. Resting forms witliout a locomotor apparatus may occur. In T. helicis, Friedrich describes winter