THE PROTOZOA 354 eporocyst, and contains, in dilToront species, from three to twenty-four sporozoites. 'J'ho various species of Aggregala appear to be specific to par- ticular hosts, whether crabs or cephalopods. If the Aggregatidce are coccidia, they differ from other coccidia in having an alternation of hosts, and in the absence of an oocyst formed round the zygote. If, on the other hand, they are gregarines, they differ from all other known gregarines (with the exception of the doubtful form Scluiudinnella, see p. 355, infra), not only in the alternation of hosts, but also in the fact that the gametocytes remain separate and produce gametes without previous association. If the view put forward by Moroff is the true one, they are to be regarded rather as forms derived from the ancestral form of gregarines and coccidia (see below), before the habit of association of gametocytes, so charac- teristic of gregarines, had been acquired. Comparison of the Life-Cydes of Coccidia and Oregarines.—It is seen that a typical coccidian, such as Coccidium schubergi, differs from a typical gregarine mainly in the following points: (1) The trophozoites are intracellular; (2) the gametocytes are more or less widely separated from one another at the time they produce gametes; (3) the female gametocyte does not divide into a number of gametes, but remains undivided to form a single macrogamete, disproportionately large as compared with the male gametes; (4) the zygote undergoes a process of division, with the result that all the spores produced within the cyst are the offspring of a single zygote, while in gregarines the cyst contains many zygotes and each zygote gives rise to a single spore. When, however, the coccidia are considered as a whole, it is seen at once that the first two points do not furnish absolute distinctions; in Sdenococ- cidium the trophozoites are motile and extracellular, and in Adeleidce the game- tocytes associate together. There remains only the sporogony which stands out as the distinctive feature of each group. It is by no means difficult to understand, however, the manner in which the two types of sporogony, different as they may appear, could have arisen from a common source. The common ancestral form, from which the two groups arose by divergent evolution and adaptation to different modes of parasitism, may be supposed to have been a parasitic organism in which the trophozoites that grew into gametocytes were separated from one another, as in coccidia, and consequently, when full-grown, produced their gametes separately; and each gametocyte produced a number of gametes which differed only slightly from one another, as in gregarines. From such a form the coccidia arose by the acquisition of an intracellular habitat on the part of the trophozoites, whereby the gametocytes remained more or less widely separated when they produced gametes. As a result of this condition the gametes have to seek each other out, and may easily miss one another; consequently there was a tendency to greater specialization of the gametes. The male gametes became very small and very motile, and were produced in large numbers. The female gametocyte, on the other hand, no lonaer divided up into a number of gametes, but became a single large macro- gamete. As soon, however, as fertihzation is effected, the suppressed divisions of the female gametocyte take place in the zygote, which divides mto the sporoblasts produced formerly by the division of the gametocyte. The gregarme-type, on the other hand, arose from the ancestral form by the trophozoites which grow into sporonts bemg free and motile in the later stages of their gro^vth ; consequently, gametocytes of different sexes were able to come together and produce their gametes in close proximity, and hnally to associate intimately and produce their gametes withm a common cyst. In such a condition it was impossible that the gametes should miss one another; consequently there was no tendency to increased f^^f-^'f^^"^^ ?^ the gametes, but, on the contrary, a tendency for the gametes to los«^ e^en the shght degree of speciahzation inherited from the ancestral foirn with he result that a more or less perfect isogamy was developed ; and instead o^^^^ microgametes being produced in excess, the numbers of each kmd of gamete produced are approximately equal.