THE PROTOZOA 134 U^u Porfoctly comparable to a colony of flagellates such as Volvoz, in which the ordinary individuals have lost the .power of becoming, or giving rise to, gametes, which can only arise from certain special individuals. 3. The free-swimming larva, composed mainly of flagellated cells, with the archaaocytos cither at the hinder pole or in the mteriial cavity, undergoes changes as it swims about, which consist in some of the flagellated'cells losing their flagellum, becoming modified in structure, and migrating mto the interior of the larva ; in this manner the two gorm-layers arc established, and the organism has then, so to speak, passed from the condition of a Protozoan colony to that of a true Metazoon. 4. When the germ-layers are established, the larva fixes itself, and of the subsequent development it is sufiieient to state that the cells of the two germ-layers become differentiated into the tissues of the adult sponge, and that in the metamorphosis of the larva the colls undergo a comiilote rearrange- ment, which shows clearly that every coll has an individuality as distinct as that of any Protozoan individual, a conclusion fully borne out by the recent experiments of Wilson and Huxley (Phil. Trans., B., ccii., pp. 165- 189, pi. viii.) on the power of regeneration in sponges after complete separation of the colls from one another. I am unable, therefore, to accept the standpoint of Dobell with regard to the relations of Protozoa and Metazoa, but consider that the comparison of a Protozoan individual to a single cell in a Motazoan body is fully justified both morphologically and physiologically, and is a reasonable phylogenetic deduction from the ontogenetic data. The objection that there are no animals known which correspond to the four-cell, eight-cell, and blastula stages in embryological development misses the point and is not strictly true ; the stage at which an embryo consists only of four or eight blastomeres is the homologue of a Protozoan colony, and in the Plagellata species are known in which the colony consists only of four, eight, sixteen, or thirty-two cell- individuals (p. 275). To the query, "Has anyone ever found a metazoon which is composed of nothing but coherent gametes ?" it may bo rephcd that in many Volvocinea? the colony also consists only in part of gamete- producing individuals. The theory that the Metazoa arise by cleavage of a multinucleate plasmodium, equivalent to a single Protozoan individual, has often been put forward, but has never found support from a general con- sideration of the facts of Motazoan embryology. In Protozoa the iilasraodial phase is always temporary, and ends sooner or later by breaking up into separate uninucleate individuals. 4. TJie Effects of Syngamy—(1) wpon the Individual, (2) wpon the Species. — 1. Of all Protozoa, the ciliate Infusoria are the group in Avhich sjmgamy is most easily observed and studied—in the first place because in these organisms it is readily distinguished from simple fission, which is transverse, while in syngamy the two conjugants apply themselves laterally to one another ; in the second place, owing to the fact that the species of Ciliata are practically monomorphic (p. 440), and can be identified without difficulty. Hence in this group elaborate and exhaustive experi- mental studies upon syngamy and its relation to the life-cycle have been carried out by many investigators, more especially by Maupas, Hertwig, Calkins, and Woodruff. The results of these investigators is briefly as follows : After syngamy the fertilized individuals appear vigorous, feed actively and multiply actively. After many generations of reproduction by fission, however, the race, if kept in an unchanged envkonment, becomes less vigorous