THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 113 Fig. 60.—Details of the structural changes of the nucleus of Euglypha alveolata during karyoldnesis, showing the formation of the chromosomes. A, Coarsely - meshed condition of the nucleus; the chromatin-granules aggregated at the nodes of the reticulum. B, Later stage ; the nucleus beginning to show a fibrous structure as a result of. the irregular clumps of chromatin-granules of the previous stage becoming arranged in linear series. B^, Some of the fibrils of this stage more highly magnified. C, Later stage ; the fibrils have become smoother and more parallel in arrangement. C^, Fibrils more highly magnified ; they consist, as in the last stage of darker and lighter parts (the former chromatin, the latter probably plastin); between the individual fibrils are cross-connections, more regular in this stage than in the last (remains of the nuclear reticulum). D, The fibrils have become shorter and thicker, and are bending up to form the U-shaped chromosomes. After Schewiakolf (100); magnification of A, B 0, and D, about 1,200 diameters. of ciliate Infusoria, such as Paramecium. The macronucleus divides without mitosis, as stated already, but the micronucleus exhibits a primitive type of mitosis (Fig. 61). When division begins, the Fig. 59—continued: D About fifteen minutes later than Q. The daughter-shell is now com- pletely formed, and the middle granular zone of the parent is passing over mto It; the nucleus of the parent has assumed its definitive orientation with the centrosomes at the poles of an axis coincident with the longitudinal axis ot tfie animal, and the equatorial plate is definitely formed E, About thirty minutes later than D. The whole of the middle zone of the parent has passed over into the daughter-shell; the flattened form of the nucleus IS changing into an elongated spindle-form, and the equatorial plate IS splitting to form the two daughter-plates. ^ _f' fi^?. minutes later than E. The daughter-plates have travelled apart, and the division of the nucleus is beginning vc tid-veiiea 0 About five minutes later than F. The division of the nucleus is com- tXX^''' d-i^gbter-nucleus has passed over into the body of the daughtS- be^i^n'in^r 1''*^'' ^ ^25 minutes from the thf Trl^' V. n 1°^ P™t«Pl^sm of the middle zone flows back into £?.?hfr f"' """^ ^^'^ individual has its own contractile vacuole ; the two daughter-nuclei are reconstituted, and the karyosome has reannearorl in each ; pseudopodia are being protruded from thj mouths o the TeSs the division IS complete and the animals are beginning to separate. ' After SchowiakofE (100); magnification about 470 diameters! 8