245 THE SARCODINA ment (compare p. 90). In the first or Actinophrys-type (Fig. 46) the nucleus is central, and tlie pseudopodia are centred on it. Actinosphcerium (Fig. 3) can be derived from this type by multi- pUcation of the nucleus, originally single, until there may be some hundreds present in large specimens. The marine form Gampto- nema nutans, Schaudinn, is perhaps also to be referred to this type of structure ; it has as many pseudopodia as there are nuclei present, each pseudopodium arising directly from a nucleus (p. 91, Fig. 47). In the second or Acanthocystis-type (Figs. 18, 64) the centre of the spherical body is occupied by a " central grain " (p. 91), on which the axial rays of the pseudopodia are centred. The nucleus, on the other hand, occupies an excentric position in the body. In this type there is a tendency to a sessile habit of life, the animal being attached by the surface of the body, which may grow out into a stalk, as in Glathrulina (Fig. 19). In the interesting marine genus Wagnerella (Fig. 48), the surface of attachment has become drawn out in such a way that the body is divided into three parts— basal plate, stalk, and head. The nucleus is situated in the basal plate. The head contains the central grain, from which the pseudo- podia radiate. Thus, in this genus the excentric position of the nucleus is carried to an extreme ; it may be regarded as having grown out from the body in a lobe or prolongation which forms the basal plate and stall?:, while the original body remains as the head with the central grain and pseudopodia. The skeleton, when present, may take various forms. It may be a simple gelatinous investment, or may contain mineral (sili- ceous) substance either in the form of loose, radiating spicules, as in Acanthocystis, or of a continuous lattice-like investment, as in Glathrulina. In Wagnerella the basal plate and stalk are protected by a tough yellowish organic membrane, replaced in the head by a colourless gelatinous layer, and both head and stalk are further protected by siliceous spicules, which are formed in the protoplasm and transported by protoplasmic currents (Zuelzer, 86). Life-History. —'Repvo&uction in the free vegetative phase is effected by binary fission or gemmation. Imperfect binary fission may lead to colony-formation, as in Rhaphidiophrys. The sexual phases are only known accurately in a few cases. In Actinophrys, Schaudinn described copulation within a cyst (p. 132, Fig. 71), with subse- quent division of the zygote and liberation of two individuals from the cyst. In Actinosphcerium (Hertwig), encystment of a large multinucleate individual is followed by degeneration of about 95 per cent, of the nuclei; the remainder appear to fuse in pairs, and the body then divides into as many cells as there are nuclei. Round each cell a separate " primary " cyst is secreted within the gelatmous " mother-cyst " originally formed round the whole mass.