THE PROTOZOA 110 formation of a definite equatorial plate which splits into two daughter-plates. The most striking and salient feature of this type of mitosis is furnished by the relatively huge " polar masses," con- sisting of the daughter-karyosomes with their contained centrioles. In the division of the nucleus of Arcella (Fig. 57), however, the karyosome first brealcs up into fine grains of chromatin, from which the polar masses and the equatorial plate are formed. The karyo- some, as has been pointed out in the previous chapter, consists of three distinct elements—namely, plastin, chromatin, and centriole Fig. 57.—Nuolcar division in Arcella vvlgaris: karyokinesis of one of the two principal nuclei. A, Spireme-stage, resulting from disruption of the karyosome ; Ji—D, formation of an equatorial plate of minute chromosomes (?) which split; E, anaphase; F, the two daughter-nuclei shortly after division. After Swarczcwsky (101), magnified 2,250. —each independent of, and separable from, the others. In proportion as the karyosome loses its plastin and chromatin elements, and becomes reduced to the centriole alone, so the primitive promitosis will approach more and more to the type of an ordinary mitosis. Such a reduction of the karyo- some could take place during the mitosis if, as happens frequently, the whole of the chromatin p contained in the karyosome passed out to join the peripheral chromatin in forming the chromosomes, the plastm-substance at the same time fiu-nishing the required ground-substance of the chromosomes (Fig. 58). On the other hand the karyosome may disappear from the restmg nucleus also •' Chatton (49) has brought together a number of mstances of nuclei showing a gradual reduction of the karyosome m different species, and the evolution of a granular type of nucleus in which the chi'omatin is scattered through the aclu-omatinx framework, leaving the centriole free or but slightly encumbered by other elements in the nuclear cavity. When a nucleus of this type divides by mitosis, a most typical and perfect karyokmetic