375 THE H^MOSPORIDIA destined to grow into gametocytes (Fig. 159, J—L). In H. stepanowi the microscliizont sporulates in the bone-marrow or in the circu- lating blood, and produces six micromerozoites. In H. nicorim it sporulates only in the circulating blood, and produces six to eight micromerozoites. (4) The micromerozoites penetrate into a blood-corpuscle, and may (a) repeat the microschizogony, or (&) develop mto sporonts (gametocytes). (5) The sporonts (Fig. 159, ilfS are sexually differentiated. They represent the end of the development in the tortoise, and can only develop further in a leech. H. stepanoivi develops in Placob- della catenigera {=^Hcementena costata), H. nicorim in Ozohranchus sJiipleyi. (6) When the leech sucks the blood of an infected tortoise, it may take up every stage of the parasite into its stomach, where, however, all stages are digested except the sporonts, which resist digestion and pass on into the intestine. There they associate in couples, male and female together. The male sporont produces four microgametes, and one of the four penetrates the macrogamete and fertilizes it (Fig. 159, N—E). (7) The zygote forms an oocyst with a thm membrane, and divides within it into eight sporozoites (Fig. 159, S^U), which pass into the blood-spaces and collect in the dorsal blood-vessel of the leech. Hovr they pass from thence into the tortoise is uncertain. The existence of two types of schizogony—macrocysts producing macro- merozoites, and microcysts producing micromerozoites—in the cycle of the same species of hsemogregarine, has long been known, but without the significance of this fact being understood. While the life-history described above is very probably typical of the hsemo- gregarines of aquatic cold-blooded vertebrates, where the intermediate host is a leech, that of terrestrial animals, so far as it is known, is of a somewhat Fig. 159 continued : A, Sporozoite ; B, 0, early schizogony, in which a large number of mero- zoites are produced; D, merozoite penetrating a blood-corpusole; E—H, later schizogony, in which few merozoites are produced ; in F the recurved vennicule within the corpuscle is seen ; /, free merozoite about to penetrate a corpuscle and recapitulate the stages D—H, or to initiate the next phase ; J, K, the stages of the final scliizogonous generation which produces the gametocytes ; L^, L^, sexually-differentiated merozoites of the final generation, which grow up into male (M^) or female {M^) gametocytes respectively ; these arc the stages which develop in the leech when taken up by it. N, Association of male and female gametocytes in the gut of the leech ; 0, fonnation of four male gametes by the male gametocyto ; P, one of the male gametes has penetrated into the body of tlie female gamete, and the two pronuclei are undergoing fusion, with formation of a fertilization-spindle ; Q, zygote with synkaryon and the degenerating remains of the male gameto- cyto attached to it, which is seen also in the ney 'c four stages ; R, 8, T, succes- sive divisions of the synkaryon ; U, ripe cyit containing eight sporozoites, residual protoplasm, and the remains of the male gametes. After Ecichcnow (78), modified in arrangement.