THE PROTOZOA l46 substance of the conjugating pronuclei cannot be deduced from observation, and could only be inferred from analogy. In the gamete-formation of Coccidium schubergi, so carefully studied by Schaudinn (99), a large number of male pronuclei are formed simultaneously by local condensations of chromidia thrown off from the nucleus of the gametocyte, which is left behind in the residual protoplasm, with its consj)icuous karyosome (Fig. 50) ; in the female gamete, also, the process of reduction appears to consist of a simple elimination of the karyosome (Fig. 75), a process which could be interpreted more naturally as elimination of effete vegetative chromatin than as a process of true nuclear reduction. In the case of Coccidium, as in others that might be cited, it must either be assumed that reduction-processes, in the strict sense of Fig. 75.—Four stages in the maturation of the female gametocyte of Coccidium schubergi. A, Full-grown macrogametocyte contained in the host-cell; B the macrogametocyte is beginning to round itself off and to expel the karyosome from its nucleus ; C, the karyosome expelled from the nucleus of the macrogametocyte has reached the surface of the body and broken up mto a number of fragments, which lie scattered in the body of the host-cell or are extruded from it; D, the macrogametocyte has now become a ripo macro- eamete having rounded itself oS, eliminated the karyosome from its nucleus. Ind divested itself entirely of the host-cell, n Nucleus of the gametocyte ; k its karyosome ; n.'. nucleus of the host-cell; Ic.'. k.'. fragments of extraded karyosome. After Schaudinn (99), magnified 1,000. the phrase, occur but have been overl6oked, or that the method of reduction is one that can only be brought mto line with the typical method by theoretical interpretation founded on analogy. It must therefore remain an open question, in the present state of our knowledge, whether a process of nuclear reduction strictly comparable to the process seen in Metazoa is essential to the definition of true syngamy, or whether such a process has not been evolved and perfected gradually as a consequence of the sexual process It is quite conceivable that syngamy may have been at its first origin merely a process of intermingling of cliromatm of distinct cell-individuals ; that in this crude and primitive form syngamy would tend to disturb the normal balance of nucleus and cytoplasm, since it would lead to quantitative excess of the