THE MODES OF LIFE OF THE PROTOZOA 23 an effect often produced by tissue-parasites, such as the MyxoboUdce, or by species of Microsporidia. In such cases also the parasite is pathogenic to its liost, and frequently lethal. 3. The parasite remains in the host until the latter is eaten by some animal which preys upon it. The propagative phases of the parasite are able, however, to resist digestion by the animal that has devoured their former host, and pass unaltered tlirough its intestine, to be finally cast out with the dejecta. This is almost certamly the method by which the common Monocystis of the earth- worm infects its host. The parasite produces resistant spores in the worm ; the worm is eaten by a bu-d, mole, frog, or some other animal, through the digestive tract of which the spores pass un- altered ; they are scattered abroad with the fseces, and may then be swallowed by another earthworm, in which they germinate and produce an infection. 4. As in the last case, the host, together with its parasites, is devoured by some animal, in which, however, the parasite is not merely carried passively, but again becomes actively parasitic. Hence in this case there is an alternation of hosts, one of the two hosts becoming infected by devouring the other. This mode of infection, which is well known to occur commonly among parasitic worms, such as Cestodes, is probably also frequent among Pro- tozoa ; but at present only two cases of it are known with certainty. One is that of the species of the genus Aggregata {vide infra, p. 353), parasites of crabs and cephalopods, such as the cuttle-fish and the octopus. In the cephalopod the parasite forms resistant spores which pass out with the faeces, and may then be devoured by crabs. In the crab the spores germinate and give rise to a second form of the parasite, which lives and multiplies in its new host. If, as fre- quently happens, the crab is eaten by a cephalopod, the parasite completes its life-cycle by becoming once more a parasite of the cephalopod. Another case is that oi Hcemogregarina muris in the rat-mite (p. 376, infra). 5. The Protozoa parasitic in the blood of vertebrates are dis- seminated by blood-sucking invertebrates, such as leeches, ticks, or insects, which take up the parasites by sucking the blood of an infected animal. Later on the parasite may be inoculated into a second vertebrate host by the invertebrate when it sucks blood at a later feed. In some cases the transference of the blood-parasite may be effected in a purely direct and mechanical manner by the invertebrate, but in most cases the invertebrate plays the part of a true host, in which the parasite multiplies and goes tlirough a cycle of development. Hence in such cases also there is an alternation of hosts and a complicated life-cycle, of which the life-history of the malarial parasite is a good example {vide infra, p. 359). It