THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 103 elements, assumes a characteristic bipolar form, like a spindle. At each pole of the spindle a centrosome or centriole is to be found, as a general rule. The two centrosomes have arisen by division of the originally single centrosome, and may remain for some time connected by a fibril or by a system of fibrils, forming what is often termed a " central spindle," but is better named a centrodesmose. The axis of the acliromatinic spindle is formed by the centrodesmose, if it persists, and the remamder of the spindle is constituted by the so- called '' mantle-fibres'' running from pole to pole. The mantle-fibres are derived from the achromatmic reticulum of the nucleus and the archoplasm ; they are probably in most cases the optical expression of an arrangement of the protoplasmic alveoli in longitudinal rows, under the influence of tensions or forces centred at the poles of the spindle. Such an arrangement of the alveoli produces the optical appearance of fibrils connected by cross-junctions, the apparent fibril being formed by thickened walls of alveoli in line with one another, while the cross-junctions are the transverse walls between consecutive alveoli. On tliis view the apparent fibrils of the achro- matinic spindle are in reality merely the indication of lines of force in the protoplasmic framework ; but some authorities consider that in certain cases at least true fibrils are formed, which may be isolated from each other and without cross-connections (Hertwig, 64). The spindle-fibres, whether real or apparent, are centred at the poles of the spindle on the centrosomes, from which other striations may radiate out in all directions through the archo- plasmic masses (" attraction-spheres "), and extend into the sur- rounding cytoplasm. While the achromatinic spindle-figure is in process of formation, the chromatin of the nucleus has gone through a series of changes which may differ in different cases, but which result in the forma- tion of a number of masses of chromatin termed chromosomes. The number, size, and shape, of the chromosomes vary greatly in dif- ferent species, but in Metazoa these characters are generally con- stant for the corresponding phases of the same species. Each chromosome, when formed, consists of a great number of minute grains of chromatin, chromidiosomes, cemented together in a matrix or ground-substance of plastin. The chromosomes arrange them- selves at the equator of the achromatinic spindle in the form of a plate, hence termed the equatorial plate. The nucleolus disappears, being absorbed or cast out, and does not contribute to the karyo- kinetic figure, but a part at least of its substance ]Drobably furnishes the plastin ground-substance of the chromosomes. At this phase, when the achromatinic spindle is fully formed, with the plate of chromosomes at its equator, the actual partition of the chromatin between the two future daughter-nuclei usually begins,