THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA 349 two flagella, both arising at the anterior end and directed forwards. In Coccidium rouxi, Elmassian describes two forms of microgametes differing greatly in size. In forms in which the sporonts associate, as in Adelea and Orcheobms, one of the four microgametes produced penetrates the macrogameto; the other three die off. In some species—e.g., Coccidium proprium of the newt—the oocj'st is formed prior to fertihzation, and the male gamete enters through a minute aperture or micropyle, which is closed as soon as one has entered. In Cyclospora caryolytica, however, numerous microgametes penetrate into the macrogamete, but .onlj' one of them furnishes a male promicleus, which copulates with the female pronucleus ; the remaining male nuclei are absorbed. A fertilization-spindle appears always to be formed in the process of syngamy, but may differ considerably in appearance from that seen in G. schubergi ; compare Kunze's description of the fertilization of Orcheobius herpobddlce. 8. The zygote is enclosed, as stated above, in an oocyst (Eig. 152, /) secreted at its surface as a membrane delicate at first, but very soon becoming thickened to a tough impervious capsule, in which the parasite can pass out of the body of the host and brave the vicissitudes of the outer world. The synkaryon divides in the genus Coccidium into four nuclei (Eig. 52, p. 106), and the body of the zygote then divides into as many sporo blasts, each with a single nucleus, leaving over a certain amount of residual protoplasm (" cystal residuum"). Each sporoblast secretes a sporocyst at its surface (Eig. 152, N), and withm the envelope the sporoblast- nucleus divides into two, after which tlie cytoplasm segments round each nucleus to form two sporozoites (Eig. 152, 0), leaving a small amount cf residual protoplasm (" sporal residuum"). These residua are slowly absorbed. When sporogony is complete, there- fore, the tough oocyst contains four spores, each consisting of a tough sporocyst contaming two sporozoites. In order to develop further, the cyst must be swallowed by a new host, in the digestive tract of which the oocyst dissolves, and the spores split open, libera- ting the sporozoites. In other species of coccidia the details of the spore-formation mav vary enormously as compared with the example described. The contents'of the oocyst may dmde mto only two, or into a very large number of sporoblasts. In the genus Canjospora (Leger, 644) and Cryptosporidium (Tyzzer) the oocyst does not divide into sporoblasts, but gives rise to a single spore, contain- ing eight sporozoites in Caryospora, four in Cryptosporidium. In Paracoccidium prevoti sporocysts are formed in the oocyst, but absorbed again, so that the sporozoites finaUy he free in the oocyst, as in the genus Legerdla, in which no sporocysts are formed at aU, but the body of the zygote divides directlv into sporozoites. With these exceptions, resistant spores are always formed in numbers varying from two to some thirty or so in different genera. ..■A^ 1^*'^'' may contain one, two, three, four, or n sporozoites, and is then Tn „r! tetrazoic, or polyzoic ; it is rarely octozoic, as in gregarines, but Caryospora is so. In Caryotropha mesnilii the spore contains twelve, in Angeiocystis audouinice about .thirty sporozoites (Brasil Z^LhJ a""^^ also with gregarines, the spores of coccidia are generall^ brrtils'orsp'ikTs.'^"' ' ^^^^^ Minclnni^oMtoJ)