THE PROTOZOA 422 ■'I V y iV ; / 4 • 'I* Analogy with other Noosporidia would lead us to identify this with the planont-phaso, initiated, possibly, by sexual processes between diflerent ama^bulfc and subsequent active multiiolication. The second period of the development begins with the penetration of the anicebula into a muscle-fibre, in which the parasite grows into a Miescher's tube and forms spores. The intramuscular development of the parasite begins by multiplication of the nuclei to about twelve, forming a Plasmodium (Fig. 176, A). This next becomes divided up, in parasites about thirty-three days old, into separate cells, pansporoblastsorsporonts,whichmultiply actively by division. The form of the para- site now becomes elongated; this stage is reached in from forty-eight to sixty daj's (Pig. 176, B). At this point the para- site may disintegrate, setting free the sporonts, or may develop into a Miescher's tube. In the first case the sporonts wander out and establish themselves in other muscle-fibres, where each sporont initiates a fresh development, thus spread- ing the infection in the tissues of the host. In the second case a membrane is secreted round the body, which forms the striated envelope prolonged inwards to form the chambers. The striated envelope of the Miescher's tube has generally been com- pared to the striated ectoplasm of some Myxosporidia — e.g., Myxidium lieber- kiihni; but according to Fiebiger it is not ectoplasm, but altered muscular tissue. The nuclei of the muscle-fibres are stimulated by the parasite to multi- plication and migration. The body then consists of a peripheral zone of sporonts, multiplying actively, and a central region in which spores are differentiated. In the development of the spore, the sporont becomes sausage-shaped, and multiplies by division. Finally the sausage-shaped bodies become spores, and are stated to be at first binucleate; probably one nucleus is that of the amoebula, the other that of the capsu- logenous cell, parietal cells being absent; but these statements are at present hypo- thetical andrequire substantiation. FuUy- formed spores are found in parasites eighty to ninety days after the infection of the host. In old infections the parasites may have destroyed the muscle-fibre completely, so that the Miescher's tube lies in the connective tissue. In such forms the centre of the body may consist of granular debris, derived from the disintegration of spores which are past their prime and have degenerated. So far as it is possible to draw conclusions in the present state of knowledge, the Sarcosporidia would appear to be true Cnido- sporidia, with spores which contain each a single polar capsule, B Fig. 176.—Four stages in the de- velopment of a "Miescher's tube" of Sarcocystis muris in the pectoral muscles of white rats infected ex- perimentally. A, Parasite 25 ix in length, fifty days after infection; the contents of the body beginning to divide into separate cells ; B, parasite of the same age, 35 /j. in length, division of the contents further advanced; C, parasite of the same age, 60 fi in length, con- taining separate cells; at the centre the division of a sporont into two sickle-shaped bodies is seen to be taking place; D, middle portion of a tube about 450 fj, in length, seventy days after in- fection, showing two couples of sickle-shaped bodies formed by division of a sporont. After Negri.