THE HiEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED EORMS 295 A typo of development in the vertebrate host contrasting in many points with that described in tlie foregoing paragraphs is seen in T. cruzi (Fig. 128), the cause of human trypanosomiasis in Brazil. In this case the ordinary or adult forms of the trypanosome found in the general circulation do not multiply there; but the investigations of Chagas and of Hartmann have made known two types of multiplication which take place in the internal organs of the body. The fii-st type of multiplication proceeds in the capillaries of the lung (Fig. 128, b—e). An adult trypanosome loses its flagellum, and in some cases its kinotonucleus also ; its body then becomes rounded off into an oval mass ; the trophonucleus, and also the kinetonucleus, if present, multiply by sue cessive divisions to form eight nuclei of each kind; and finally the body divides within its own periplast into eight minute daughter-individuals, so- called " merozoites." The merozoites are stated to exhibit a dimorphism Fig. 128.—Phases of T. (Schizotrypamim) cruzi in vertebrate blood, a, The two forms of the adult trypanosome, " male " (upper) and " female " (lower), from human blood ; b, preparations for schizogony ; c, schizont ; d, division of the nucleus of the schizont; e, division of the schizont into eight merozoites ; /, merozoite in a blood-corpuscle ; g, intracorpuscular phase in late stage of growth ; h, similar phase escaping from a corpuscle, the flagellum not yet formed ; i, similar phase, the flagellum in process of formation. Stages b—e are found m the lung, the others in the peripheral blood. After Chagas (425). which Chagas regards as sexual; those produced lay trypanosomes which retamed their kmetonucleus have both trophic and kinetic nuclei and a rudunent of a flagellum (male forms); those derived from trypanosomes which lost both flagellum and kinetonucleus have only a trophonucleus (female lorms) ; in the latter ease the single nucleus divides into two unequal parts, ot which the smaller becomes the new kinetonucleus, and a flagellum is formed subsequently. In either case the merozoites penetrate into blood- f rom even the most swarming infection with T. lewisi (for the action of the " ren- forces strams see p. 28). Those who study habitually the lethal species of trypanosomes often display a natural bias, not in tlie least justified, to assume that a similar virulence is an inseparable attribute of all other species of these parasites, it that were so, it would be necessary to consider practically every Rpecimen of pike, bream, perch, or tench, in the Norfolk Broads, for instance to be in a cliscascd condition.