206 THE PROTOZOA Amoeba Umax, for example, was very resistant to the rays, while other Protozoa were very soon injured by them. In all cases long exposure to the rays was fatal. The first effect of the rays was generally to quicken the movements; the next was an injurious action. The rays appear to act more particularly upon the nucleus in the first instance, with subsequent gradual deleterious effects upon the cytoplasm. In experiments on the effect of Rontgen-rays on Paramecium and Volvox (Joseph and Prowazek, 109), these forms were found to exhibit a negative taxis, collecting in ten to fifteen minutes in a part not exposed to the rays. Exposure of Paramecium to the rays caused the pulse of the contractile vacuoles to become slower to a marked degree as a rule, but individual variations were observed in this reaction, the effect being inconsiderable in some cases ; and the animals gradually regain the normal pulse. Intra vitam staining of the nucleus of Paramecium exposed to the rays gave a result similar to that obtained by staining Paramecia fatigued by bemg shaken evenly and continuously for two hours. Long-continued action of the rays killed the organisms. (c) Thermotaxis and Effects of Temperature.—For a given species of the Protozoa there is an optimum temperature at which its vital activity is at its highest pitch, and above which the activity is diminished until it reaches a point at which the vitality is impaired and the animal is finally killed. A temperature, however, at which the animal succumbs sooner or later may at first have a quickening effect upon the vital functions. Thus, many experiments have shown that a rise of temperature increases greatly the rapidity and frequency of the pulsations of the contractile vacuoles ; and in the case of Glaucoma colpidium Degen (154) found that, although the animal was killed by a temperature above 30° C, the maximum frequency of the pulsations was produced temporarily by a tempera- ture of 34° C, above which the frequency was rapidly diminished (compare also Khainsky, 170-5). The optimum temperature may, however, be different at different stages in the life-cycle, as in parasitic Protozoa which infest a warm- blooded and a cold-blooded host alternately ; in such cases a change of temperature may perhaps be a factor in bringuig about develop- mental changes. In free-hving Protozoa the ishases of the fife-cycle are often related to seasonal changes, and are probably induced largely by conditions of temperature. Experimentally it has been shown that Protozoa terid to move towards regions of more favourable temperature, and away from those less favourabie Khainsky (170-5) found that rise of temperature P'^of the digestive processes in Paramecium, very marked at 24 C- or above At 30° C. and above Paramecium takes up scarcely any more ^0°^ ' of the food-vacuoles, which continue to be formed, then consist almost entn-ely ''^^he effects of temperature on the development in cultures are very mg-ked Popoff studied the growth of Fror^tonia leucas ^^^f l<^"^««^:^fP*..^A\n;e S 2^° C resnectivelvl at the lower temperature the animals divide once in