vii PREFACE been deemed worthy of citation. In the many cases where the same authors have published several works on a given subject, only the last of them is cited—for example, the volume of researches pubhshed recently by Mathis and Leger (473) covers the ground of the earlier memoirs pubhshed by these authors, which are therefore not cited; similarly, the memoir upon amoebae by Nagler (95) covers the earher work of Hartmann and Nagler upon Amoeba difloidea. Since it was quite impossible to make the bibliography in any way exhaustive, the aim has been to make it, like the rest of the book, introductory to the subject. It is hoped that any reader who, desirous of pursuing further some special subject, consults the references cited will find in them and in the further works quoted in them the means of acquiruig complete information with regard to modern knowledge concerning aU the points in question. The following classes of memoirs are not cited, however, in the bibliography, unless there was some special reason for doing so : faunistic works, papers describing new species, and writings of a polemical character. New memoirs on Protozoa are being published continually, so rapidly, and in so many different periodicals (some of them very difficult to obtain), that the author fears he may himself have overlooked many such, especially of those pubhcations which have appeared very recently, while the book was in course of preparation. For such omissions, some of which have already come under his notice, he can but apologize, and at the same time promise that they shall be rectified in future editions, if the patronage of those interested in the subject enables further editions of this book to be pubhshed. The present edition does not, however, profess to deal with works pubhshed later than 1911. In order to further the object of making this book a guide to the technicahties of the subject, the plan has been adopted of prmting in heavier black type in the index the numbers of those pages on which the term cited is fully explained, or, in the case of taxonomic names, is referred to its place in the systematic classification. In this way the index can be used as a glossary by anyone wishing to ascertain the significaiace of a technical term, or, though necessarily to a more hmited extent, the systematic position of a genus, family, or order of the Protozoa. All that is necessary for this purpose is to look up the word in the index, and then to turn to the page or pages indicated by black type. The author has, in a few cases, modified the technical terminology m current use, or has made additions to it. The adjective in general use relating to chromatin is " chromatic." with its various deriva-