THE PROTOZOA 160 drawn between intrinsic differences, not necessarily visible, and structural or other differences which , are more or less obvious. The fact that gametes and pronuclei tend to unite proves that m all cases there must be intrinsic differences between them which stimulate them to do so ; in this sense, at least, we may endorse fully the dictum of Hertwig, that "fertilization depends on a fusion of sexually-differentiated cell-nuclei." On the other hand, gametes of opposite sexes exhibit every possible condition from complete similarity ki structure and appearance to the greatest possible contrast in every feature of their organization. There can be no doubt that visible differentiation of the gametes is largely, if not entirely, an adaptation to the functions that they have to perform ; and this conclusion is by no means weakened by the fact that there are many cases of isogamy which are un- doubtedly secondary, ia which a more primitive and phylogeneti- cally older structural differentiation has gradually become annulled, under circumstances in which adaptive differences in the gametes are no longer necessary—as, for example, in gregarines (p. 173). In Metazoa it is generally recognized that the two pronuclei that undergo fusion are perfectly equivalent,* and that the dif- ferences seen between them in the gametes are temporary and, in the case of the spermatozoon, an adaptation to circumstances ; here the real differentiation of the gametes affects only cytoplasmic characters. In Protozoa, on the other hand, the conjugating pronuclei often exhibit differences of structure when the cells themselves appear perfectly similar. In the Infusoria, for instance, differences have been noted between the migratory and stationary pronuclei; how far these differences may be correlated directly with the differences in their activities must remain an open question. In the foregoing paragraphs we have set forth and discussed some of the attempts that have been made to solve the problem of sex. It cannot be said that a perfectly satisfactory solution has been attained, but at least certain conditions of the problem may be laid down. In the first place, no theory of sex is satis- factory which does not explain why the union of two cells should be necessary in syngamy. In the second place a teleological inter- pretation, such as amphimixis, can only state a secondary con- sequence, not a primary cause, of sexual union; but such a consequence may suffice to explain the retention and persistence of sexual phenomena after the conditions have ceased to exist under which they came into existence. In the simplest Protista of the bacterial grade, it may be supposed, either that the living matter is not differentiated into localized substances having distinct physiological qualities, or that in such * Apart, that is to say, from the much-discussed question of the supernumerary chromosome.