100 CHAPTER VII THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA The methods by which reproduction is efiected amongst the Protozoa vary greatly in matters of detail, as will be seen ; but the obvious diversity in method throws into greater relief the under- lying unity in principle. In Protozoa, as in Protista generally, reproduction takes place always by means of some form of fission— that is to say, division or cleavage of the body mto two or more parts, which are set free as the daughter-mdividuals. An essential part of the process is the partition amongst the daughter-individuals of at least some part of the chromatin-substance possessed by the parent. Hence fission of the cell-body as a whole is always pre- ceded by division of the nucleus; and if cln-omidia are present, they also are divided amongst the products of the fission of the body. On the other hand, division of the nucleus is not necessarily followed at once by division of the body. Considering the methods by which fission is effected from a general standpoint, we may distmguish three chief types of repro- duction, each of which may show subordinate variations : 1. Division of the nucleus, or, if there are two difierentiated nuclei, division of each of them, is followed by division of the body ; this is the commonest and most typical mode of reproduction, known as simple or binary fission. 2. Division of the nucleus or of each of two differentiated nuclei is not followed immediately by corresponding divisions of the body, l>ut may be repeated several times, and so give rise to a multi- nucleate condition of the body, which may be— {a) Temporary, and soon followed by cleavage of the body mto as many daughter-individuals as there are nuclei or pairs of dif- ferentiated nuclei; this method is known as muUiple fission (Fig. 127) ; or it may be— , . , • . a Ih) Permanent, givmg rise to a multmucleate body which is termed a vlasmodmm. Then division of the body may take place at any time by cleavage of the body into two or more multumcleate narts • this process is known as plasmolomy. Ultimately, however, in all'cases a plasmodium breaks up by multiple fission mto uni-