THE HiEMOSPORIDIA 395 parasitism, and consequent temporary loss of the locomotor apparatus. It may well be, therefore, that some forms now generally included amongst the Hsemosporidia {e.g., possibly the drepanidia) may prove, when better known, to be stages of Hsemo- flac^ellates, and to have in reahty nothing to do with the true HiBmosporidia. Affinities of the Telosporidia.—From the foregoing discussion, the conclusion has been drawn that the Coccidia and the typical H^mosporidia are closely allied, sufficiently so to be grouped together in a single order, for which the name " Coccidiomorpha " may be used. In a former chapter (p. 354) the relationship of the Gregarines and Coccidia Avas discussed, and it was pointed out that there was no difficulty in assuming a common ancestral origin for the two groups—a conclusion which, indeed, has never been called in question. The Telosporidia, taken as a whole, may be regarded, therefore, as a homogeneous and natural group, in which the close affinity existing between its constituent members may^be regarded as indicating a common phylogenetic origin. If this conclusion be accepted, it remains to discuss the affinities of the Telosporidia as a whole to other groups of Protozoa. It is not unreasonable to suppose that a parasitic group of this kind has been evolved from free-living, non-parasitic ancestors, and the question to be discussed is to which of the groups of Protozoa the ancestral form of the Telosporidia belonged. Of the three great classes of the Protozoa, the Infusoria may almost certainly be excluded from consideration in regard to this question, since, in view of the very specialized and definite features of this group, there are no grounds whatever for connecting them with the Telosporidia. There remain, therefore, only the Sarcodina and Mastigophora to be considered. At different times two opposed theories have been put forward with regard to the affinities and ancestry of the Sporozoa. One view sees in them the descendants of typical forms of Sarcodina, such as Amceha (Awerinzew, 890) ; the other derives them from flagellate ancestors such as are represented at the present day by Euglena or Astasia. It is no longer possible, however, to regard the Sporozoa as a whole as a homogeneous group, and the two so-called "subclasses," Telosporidia and Neosporidia, must be considered separately, each on its own merits. The Neosporidia are considered at the end of the next chapter. The question here is of the Telo- sporidia alone. For this group opmion is practically unanimous at the present day in favour of a flagellate ancestry, a theory which must be considered critically. One of the main arguments generally put forward for the theory of the flageUate origin of the Telosporidia is the existence of flagel-