THE GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROTOZOA 201 With regard to the contractility of tlie myonemes, no detailed explanation can be offered at present. Biitschli (37) has shown the iwssibility of cxijlaining the contractile mechanism of such structures by differences in surface-tension arising bot\veen the walls and the contents of protoplasmic alveoli w^hich are disposed with a definite arrangement. (6) Other Forms of Energy.—Light-production or phosphorescence is a common phenomenon in marine Protozoa, a property expressed in such names as Noctiluca (p. 279) and Pyrodinium (p. 278). The magnificent phosphorescent effects often seen at night, especially in warmer seas, is to be referred chiefly to swarms of Protozoa. The source of the luminosity appears to reside in small globules of fat or oil, and is probably the result of oxidation. It is easy to observe that the production of hght is stimulated by agitating or stirring the water. For a general discussion of luminosity in living organisms, see Piitter (200). From the analogy of the loiown facts in the physiology of animal and plants, it may be inferred that in Protozoa also the vital activities are accompanied by the production of heat and by electrical changes ; but no exact determinations of such changes have been made. 5. Reactions to Stimuli and Environment.—It can easily be observed that Protozoa react in a definite manner to stimuh, and behave in a particular way under certain conditions. In most cases, however, these responses to external conditions must be regarded as fundamental properties of the Kving protoplasm and not as functions of speciaUy differentiated organs of the body This IS weU seen, for example, in amoebae, some species of which are very sensitive to light, and cease feeding when exposed to the bright i^ummation of the stage of the microscope (Rhumbler, 34) In Arcella the nuclear division is stated to take place only at m<rht between 1 and 5 a m. (Khainsky, U5). In such cases, however' there IS nothmg which can be identified as a special light-perceiving In other cases Protozoa may possess organs which must be regarded as sensory m nature. Pseudopodia appear to possess in many cases be si T Tr '"T'r " ^^^^^^ ^^g-^' sometimes to be speciahzed for such functions, as, for example, the anterior fp^S Th Myxosporidia, such as Z»a ^ {tig. 165). The same is true to a much greater degree of flaLla and 01,, . anteriorly-directed flageUa are perhaps a^^ sensofy t function, especiaHy when they are not the sole means of locomotion as in such forms as Rhizomastigina (p. 268) or Bodonidc. (p 270) and in many Cihata stiff tactile bristles occur (p. 446). In man; tol!ht"-°T' are found which appear to be speciilly senXe LSdf^rtWbeZ.^^ - ^^^^ -