21 THE MODES OF LIFE OF THE PROTOZOA tho " propagativo phases," which as a rule do not multiply further in tho host in which they are produced, but await their chance of being transferred to a new host; and if such a chance be not given to them, they die off and are replaced by fresh propagative forms from the stock (see further beloAV, Chapter IX., p. 166). So long as the nutritive or multiplicative function is tho most important one in the life of a parasite, and until it has matured its propagative phases, the death of the host is the greatest disaster that can befall it. The ideal host, from the point of view of a para- site, is one that is " tolerant " to it—that is to say, one that can support the presence of the parasite and keep it supplied with the nutriment it requires, without suffering in health or vigour to any ■"marked extent. When once, however, the parasite has made the necessary provision for propagating the species, the life or death of the host may become a matter of indifference to the parasite, or may even in some cases be necessary for the dissemination of the offspring. This will be apparent from a consideration of the methods by which parasitic Protozoa infect new hosts. The passage of a parasite from one host to another includes two manoeuvres : the passing out from the first host, and the passing into the second. Primitively it may be supposed that tliis migra- tion was effected simply by the unaided efforts of the parasite itself— that is to say, that the active motile parasite would force its way out of one host, move freely in the surrounding medium, and sooner or later attack and penetrate a fresh host. This primitive method of transference doubtless occurs in many cases, especially amongst epizoic forms {e.g., IchthyophtMrius, p. 450). In the case of entozoic parasites its occurrence is less common, but it is found in a certain number of cases. The young stages of many Acinetaria, parasitic in Ciliata, probably seek out their hosts and penetrate uato them ; after a period of juvenile parasitism they leave the host's body and become free-living, non-parasitic organisms. Active migration of this kind, however, is very rare amongst entozoic parasites. In the first place, the conditions of life within a living body, in the midst of organic fiuids, are so different from those in the open water, whether salt or fresh, that it is hardly to be expected that a delicate unicellular organism adapted to the one mode of life could stand the sudden change to tho other. In the second place, it is clear that active migration of parasitic Protozoa could only be effected Avhen the host js an aquatic animal, and not when it leads a terrestrial life. The only instances of active migration known with certainty to occur m the case of Protozoa parasitic on terrestrial animals are those in which tho parasite can penetrate a mucous membrane and is thus able to pass from one host to another when two such surfaces are m contact. In this way the trypanosome of dourine in horses