THE PROTOZOA 452 adaptation to their mode of life (c/. L6ger and Duboscq, 848). The best- known genera are Anoplophrya, a typical ciliato with micronucleus and macronuc eus and with a rudimentary cytostomo, constituting with Hopli- tophrya, Herpetophrya Discophrya, etc., the group Anoplophryinm ; Chromidina and Opahnopsis parasitic in Cephalopods, are probably allied to the fore- going (c/. Dobell, 833). The species of Opalina, constituting the group OpaUmnce, are parasitic in frogs and various cold-blooded vertebrates • their nuclei vary in number in different species from two to an indefinitely large number, but are all similar and without differentiation into inicronuclei and macronuclci at any period of the life-cycle. Cepcdc has monographed the section Anoplophryina;, and has described a number of new genera and species, distributed amongst eleven famihes. The Astomata are internal parasites of their hosts, especially of the digestive tract. Protophrya ovicola occurs in the brood-sac of the mollusc Littorina rudis, and is parasitic upon its eggs, causing their disintegration (Kofoid). The remarkable form Pycnothrix monocystoides, from the gut of Hymx capensis, described by Schubotz, deserves special mention. It reaches a length of 3-2 millimetres, and contains parasitic nematodes. The animal itself has a great superficial resemblance to a nematode or to a monocystid gregarine ; it has a very thick and distinct ectoplasm, covered by an even coat of short cilia, and with two longitudinal grooves which Schubotz regards as equivalent to the peristomial grooves of other Cihata. Each groove contains a series of pouch-like depressions, which open doAvn into the endoplasm, and are provided with special tracts of myonemes. Schubotz regards these pouches as a scries of cytostomes, but no food-particles or vacuoles are found in the endoplasm ; the interpretation, therefore, of these openings as cytostomes can only be taken in a phylogenetic sense ; actually they appear to represent perforations of the tough ectoplasm which may facilitate absorption of food by the osmotic method. For the cilia, myonemes and excretory system of this form see above (pp. 443, 446 447); the micronucleus and macronucleus are each single and of the ordinary type. Pycnothrix stands at present quite isolated. The species of the genus Opalina differ in certain peculiarities of structure and life-history from all other ciliates. The life-history of the common species of Opalina parasitic in the rectum of the frog has been studied by Metcalf (853) and Neresheimer (857), whoei.- accounts agree as regards the general life-cycle, but differ in some cytological details. Opalina ranarum multiplies in a vegetative manner during the summer and autumn months, but in the spring a special propagative cycle occurs in relation to change of hosts and is followed by sexual processes. The vegetative reproduction increases the numbers of the parasite in the host; it consists of two processes, multiplication of the nuclei and division of the body, which go on independently. The animal contains a great many nuclei, and when it reaches a certain size the body divides either longi- tudinally or transversely to produce two daughter-individuals, each of which grows again to the full size. The multiplication of the nuclei is effected by a simple mitosis, similar to that of the micronucleus of other Infusoria, and without eentrosomes. In the spring the parasites divide rapidly and repeatedly, without groA^dng to full size between the divisions, so that they become continually smaller in size. A few individuals, however, do not undergo this process of rapid fission, but remain of the ordinary type, forming a stock which persists and carries' on the infection in the frog, while those which divide up are destined to pass out of it. At the beginning of the process of rapid division, the nuclei extrude ehromidia, some of which are absorbed, while from the remainder secondary nuclei are formed (Neresheimer). Finally the old nuclei are absorbed. The secondary nuclei also multiply by mitosis; and, according to Metcaif, in the later mitoses preceding encj^stment the number of chromo- somes is reduced to one-half the ordinary number (in 0. intestinalis from eight to four, in 0. caudaia from six to three). The result of the repeated division