137 SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA syngamy occm's once for each complete cycle of development with alternation of hosts, though it must not be forgotten that the development in the vertebrate host comprises a vast and quite indefinite number of generations of the parasite. On the other hand, in such forms as trypanosomes, a complete life- cycle, from one act of syngamy to the next, may comprise, ap- parentl}^ a great number of developmental cycles and alternations of hosts. From the foregoing considerations it is evident that syngamy, though usually a necessity for the continued existence of uni- cellular no less than of multicellular organisms, can be dispensed with for a very large number of generations, perhaps even iadefiiaitely, in some in- stances or under special circumstances. Two other phenomena of apparently Avidespread occurrence point to the same con- clusion—^namely, the phe- nomena of parthenogenesis and autogamy. Partheno- genesis is a mode of re- production so common in C D Metazoa of various classes Fig. 72.—Parthenogenesis of Plasmodmm vivax. that it is unnecessary to ^. A female gametocyte, of vvhich the nucleus cite instances of it here ; it may be defined briefly as the power to develop without syngamy possessed by a sexually-dilf erentiated gamete, which under nor- mal circumstances could do so only after syngamy with a gamete of the opposite sex. To this it must be added that the gamete which has this power is always the female ; but this limitation receives an explanation from the extreme reduction of the body of the male gamete and its feeble trophic powers rendering it quite unfitted for independent reproduction, rather than from any mherent difference between the two sexes in relation to reproductive activity. Parthenogenesis has been de^ scribed by Schaudinn for the human malarial parasite (Fig 72) and m Trypanosoma noctuce, and by Prowazek for Herpetomonas muscm-domesticce; none of these cases, however, are entirely free is dividing into a darker jjortion {n^) and a lighter portion [n^); B, the separation of the two parts is complete; C, the darker nucleus has divided into a number of portions ; D, a number of merozoites are formed from the darker nuclei; the lighter nucleus is abandoned in the residual protoplasm {r.f.) containing the melanin-pigment. After Schaudinn (130).