198 THE PROTOZOA Substances that precipitate albumens have a retarding effect combined with dilatation of the vacuole. Degen, following Hartog, regards the vacuole as primarily a mode of compensation for the tendency of the protoplasm to take up water by imbibition, a tendency checked or inhibited by changes in the tonicity of the medium. Thus Zuelzer (222) found that Amoeha verrucosa, if transferred gradually from fresh water to sea-water, lost its contractile vacuoles ; at the same time its protoplasm shrank and altered in character, and the nucleus acquired a different structure and appearance. When re- stored to fresh water, the contractile vacuoles reappeared, and the nucleus and cytoplasm became of normal character. These experiments indicate that the formation of the contractile vacuoles depends on differences in the tonicity of the protoplasm and the surrounding medium ; they also raise the suspicion that many species of marine Protozoa may be only different forms, due to change of medium, of fresh-water species, or vice versa. For the excretory vacuole-system of Opalina, see p. 447. Insoluble excretion-masses are often formed in great quantity in the bodies of Protozoa. Such substances take the form of crystals or grains of various kinds, and often of pigment. An example of such a substance is the melanin-pigment of the hsemamoebae (p. 359), which appears to be a derivative of the haemoglobin of the infected blood-corpuscle. Pigment may arise also by degeneration of superfluous chromatin extruded from the nucleus, as in Actino- Sfhcerium (p. 209), or by degeneration of nuclei, as in abnormal oocysts of Cydospora caryolytica (p. 364). The cytoplasm of Paramecium contains crystals which have been studied by Schewiakoff (206), who finds that they consist of calcium phosphate, either Ca3(P04)2 or Ca2H2(P04)2. When the Paramecia were starved, the crystals disappeared completely in one or two days ; if then the Paramecia were supplied with food again, the crystals reappeared. Schewiakoff was never able to observe that the crystals were ejected from the anus, but they were seen to collect round the contractile vacuole. He is of opinion that the insoluble phosphate is dissolved in the enchylema, or is converted into the soluble form CaH4(P04)2, and then eliminated by the contractile vacuole. Insoluble excretion-masses may be simply extruded from the body, a process which commonly takes place at certain crises, as, for example, prior to encystment. Or, on the other hand, they may remain in the protoplasm, and are finally abandoned in the residual masses left over during reproductive phases, as seen com- monly in the sporulation of various types —for example, the h£emamoeb£e akeady cited and other Sporozoa. In such cases the young individuals are formed of protoplasm free from the coarse excretion-granules, and the body of the parent, so much as is left of it, dies off and disintegrates. In some cases, however, the young individuals formed contain enclosures derived from the parent-body, as, for example, the crystal-bearing swarm-spores of Radiolaria (p. 254); but in such cases the enclosure is probably of the nature of reserve-material. Secretion, more or less rapid, of various substances can be observed without difficulty in various Protozoa. Examples are the