THE PROTOZOA clu'omatiii does not form a distinct nucleus. In all Protozoa there is a true nucleus in at least the principal stages of the life-history, and it is obvious that the recognition of a cellular grade, charac- terized by the possession of a true nucleus, postulates that the first origin and evolution of the nucleus must be sought amongst those - organisms which have been classed, speaking broadly, as the bacterial grade. We may expect, therefore, to find in organisms which stand on the plane of morphological differentiation which characterizes the bacteria the early stages of the evolution of the nucleus from the primitive chromidial condition, and even cases in which the condition of a true nucleus has been reached. The matter cannot be discussed further here, where it must suffice to establish the existence of true nuclei in Protozoa ; but Dobell (52) has described an interesting series of conditions which may be regarded as stages in the evolution of nuclei amongst bacterial organisms. Since the possession of a true nucleus has been regarded here as the criterion of the cellular grade of organization, it is necessary to discuss briefly the meaning and application of the term " cell." By many, perhaps most modern writers, the cell has been regarded as the elementary vital unit, than which there exists nothing feimpler amongst living bemgs. In this sense the word " cell " becomes synonymous with the term " micro-organism," "protist," or any other word used to denote living beings of the most primitive type : " tout ce qui vit 71'est que cellules " (Delage and Herouard, 6). The word " cell " was, however, applied originally to the elements that built up the tissues of animals and plants. At first, as the word cell implies, it Avas used to denote only the enclosing membrane or framework ; but when it became apparent that the membrane was of secondary importance, it was transferred to the contained stuff, and so came to signify a structural element in which the living substance, protoplasm, is differentiated into two distinct parts- nucleus and cytoplasm. If the term " cell " is not to become so vague and indefinite in its significance as to be absolutely meaning- less, it is best to restrict its application to living organisms which have reached this degree of differentiation. Dobell considers that all Protista are nucleated organisms ; in the preceding paragraphs reasons have been advanced against accepting this proposition as a statement of fact, and from the pomt of view of phylogenetic speculation, I, at least, find it difficult to believe that the earliest form of life could have been an organism in which the living sub- stance was differentiated ab initio into distinct nucleus and cyto- plasm. In my opinion the cell, as defined above—that is to say, an organism m which the living substance, protoplasm, has become