SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA 143 share in syngamic processes, and the vegetative chromatin, whether as chromidia or a nucleus, disappears from the hfe-history. Nuclear reduction, in the strict sense, concerns simply the nuclei composed of generative chromatin, and is a process which results in the reduction of the chromatin to half the specific quantity, a deficiency made up again to the full amount by the union of the two pronuclei to form the synkaryon. It is therefore a process which is seen in its most characteristic form in those cases where it is possible to gauge the amount of chromatin in the nucleus more or less accurately by the number of chromosomes formed dui'ing division. In the Metazoa, where each species is characterized by possessing a number of chromosomes which is generally constant (the so-called " somatic number "), the process of reduction appears to be ex- tremely uniform in its essential details throughout the whole series, from the Sponges and Coelenterates up to man, and admits of a description in general terms. The gametocyte (oocyte or sperma- tocyte), when at the full term of its growth, has a large nucleus which then goes through two maturative divisions in rapid succes- sion. When the gametocyte-nucleus prepares for division, it appears with half the somatic number of chromosomes ; but each chromosome is in reality bivalent, and produced by the fusion or close adherence of two separate somatic chromosomes. In the first reduction-mitosis, the two adherent chromosomes in each case separate from one another and travel to opposite poles of the spindle ; hence this division is in reality a reducing, though it simulates in some of its features an equating, division. Im- mediately or very soon after the two chromosomes of each pair have separated, they split longitudinally in preparation for the next mitosis, which follows hard upon the first, and in which the two sister-chromosomes of each pair go to opposite poles of the spindle. Consequently the second reduction-division is in reality an equating mitosis, though on account of the precocious splitting of the chromo- somes it may simulate a reducing division. Thus, to sum up the process briefly, the number of chromosomes in the germ-cells is reduced to half the somatic number by two successive mitoses, the first a reducing, the second an equating division. In the male sex, the spermatocyte divides mto four gamete-cells of equal size, the spermatids, each of which becomes a spermatozoon. In the female sex the oocyte-divisions are very unequal, producmg the ovum, ripe for fertihzation, and three minute sister-cells of the ovum which, as the so-called " polar bodies," are cast off and die away. By syiigamy between a ripe ovum and a spermatozoon, each containing half the somatic number of chromosomes, the full somatic number is restored.