262 THE PROTOZOA embedded in the chromatophores, the centres of the formation of amyloid substances; and grains of amyloid nature formed by the constructive metabolism of the organism. It is also common to find in the holophytic flagellates a peculiar red spot, or stigma, placed near the anterior end of the body, and probably sensitive to light (p. 205). In general, two types of holophytic flagellates can be recognized : first, forms in which, in addition to the organs already mentioned, those pertaining to the holozoic mode of nutrition are also present; secondly, those possessing only the holophytic apparatus. The first type may be regarded as more primitive forms in which the holophytic habit of life has not become so engrained as to exclude any other mode of nutrition ; but a change is still possible, and the organism can combine or vary the holophytic with the holozoic or saprophytic method. In the second type the organism has be- come plant-like, to the complete exclusion of other methods of nutrition ; the body is generally enclosed completely in a firm cellu- lose envelope, allowing diffusion of liquids and gases, but without apertures through which foreign bodies can pass into the interior. Such forms, if they lose their flagellum in the adult state, are classed as unicellular Algae, and the young flagellated individuals are termed " zoospores." The transition from holophytic flagellates to plants is a gradual one, and the border-line is simply fixed by the characters of the " adult," and is therefore as arbitrary as that between Sar- codina and Mastigophora discussed in a previous chapter. (c) In saprophytic and parasitic forms no special organs of nutri- tion are present, since the food is absorbed in a fluid condition from the surrounding medium. Contractile vacuoles are commonly present in those flagellates which inhabit fresh water. In the more primitive forms the vacuoles empty themselves direct to the exterior. In more highly organized types the vacuoles open into the a3sophagus. In EugUna the two contractile vacuoles open into a reservoir-vacuole, which, according to Wager (213), is in open communication with the oesophagus (Fig. 84). The nuclear apparatus consists, as a rule, of a single nucleus of vesicular type, with a distinct karyosome. Chromidia are generally absent, but are found in a few cases (Rhizomastigina). The relations of the nuclear apparatus and the flagella have been discussed above, and are briefly as follows: , ^. . .i 1 There is a single nucleus with a single centriole, which fimctions at tlie same time as centrosome and blepharoplast. Then either (a) the centriole is within, or connected intimately with, the nucleus, in which case the fla- gellum appears to arise directly from the nucleus, as in Mastigina (Fig. 38); or (6) the centriole, and the flageUum it gives off, are quite independent of the nucleus, as in Mastigella (Fig. 40).