THE PROTOZOA 328 of the nuclear membrane (Dogiel, 605) ; as a rule the surface of the nucleus IS perfectly smootli. C'liromidia arc stated to occur in the cytopiasm of some grcgarincs (compare Kuschakewitsch). According to Comes, they arc scarce in normal individuals, but become abundant with over-nutrition ; since he states, however, that they arise in the cytoplasm, it is possible that they represent grains of the nature of volutin rather than true chromidia. According to Drzewccki however, the nucleus of Monocystids may, during the early growi,h of the trophozoite, break up into chromidia and be re-formed again, or may throw out vegetative chromidia which are absorbed in the cytoplasm; Kuschake- witsch, however, regards this as a degenerative process. Drzewecki affirms that Stomatophora [Monocystis) coronata, from the vesiculis seminales of Pheretima sp., possesses a mouth-opening in a peristome, and an anal aperture, and takes up solid food in the form of the spermatozoa of its host. If so it is quite unique, not only among gregarines, but among Sporozoa generally. The ingested spermatozoa are stated to be taken up and digested by the nucleolus (karyosome). Accordmg to Hesse, the supposed mouth' and peristome are parts of a sucker-like organ of attachment. The alleged nucleolar digestion is perhaps a misinterpretation of the extrusion of chroma- tinic particles from the karyosome. The Gregarines are subdivided at the present time into two suborders characterized by differences in the hfe-cycle. In tlie first suborder, known as the Eugregarinse, the parasite has no multiplicative phase, but the trophozoites proceed always as sporonts to the propagative phase by a method of reproduction (sporogony) which is combined with sexual processes, and leads to the formation of resistant spores. In the second suborder, the Schizogregarinte, the trophozoites which arise from the sporozoites become schizonts which multiply for several generations non-sexually, by schizogony, before a generation of sporonts (gamonts or gameto- cytes) is produced which proceed to reproduce themselves by sexual sporogony. Stated briefly, the Eugregarinse have only a propaga- tive phase, sporogony, in their life-cycle ; the Schizogregarinse have both a multiplicative phase, schizogony, and sporogony. The sporogony is of essentially the same type in both orders. It is simplest, therefore, first to describe the life-cycle of a eugregarme, and then to deal with the multiplicative phases of the schizogre- garine. The complete life-cycle of a eugregarine may be divided into eight phases. 1. The sporozoites are liberated from the spores in the digestive tract of the host in all cases known, and usually proceed at once to attach themselves to, or penetrate into, the cells of the lining epithelium of the gut; but in a few cases the sporozoites pass through the wall of the gut into other organs, as does, for example, the common Monocystis of the earthworm, which penetrates into the vesicula seminalis, and finally into sperm-ceUs. 2. In the early cytozoic phase the trophozoite may be con- tauied completely withua a cell (Fig. 143, A, B,) or merely attached to it; the former condition, speaking generally, is characteristic