THE PROTOZOA 34 As regards material, the shells may be composed of elements secreted by the organism (" autophya,',' Hacckel). as in Ilyalosphenia (Hig. 16, B), or of foreign particles taken up by the animal from its surroundings (" xenophya "), as in Difflurjia (Fig. 16, A). Skeletal elements secreted by the organism may be of organic or inorganic nature. In the former case they are probably chitinous in most cases, or composed of a substance allied to chitin; in the latter they are either calcareous or siliceous. A good example of the formation of a shell is seen in Euglyjjha (Fig. 59), where the chitinous plates composing it are formed first of all in the interior of the proto- plasmic body, and pass to the surface to build up the shell. When the shell is built up of foreign particles, the material employed may vary greatly, and consists generally of particles of sand, grit, etc.. Fig. 16.—Examples of shells or houses formed by Protozoa. A, Difjlw/ia sjnralis, which forms a house built up of foreign bodies ; B, Ilyalosphenia cuneala, in which the house is buUt up of plates secreted by the animal itself (compare also Euglyyha, Fig. 59). Both these species belong to the order Amcebwa ; the i^seudopodia (ps.) arc seen streaming out of the mouth of the shell. After Leidy ; A magnified 250, B 500 diameters. taken up at hazard from the environment. Such shells are de- scribed technically as " arenaceous." In the case of Difflugia, Verworn (36) was able to cause it to build up its test of various materials, such as particles of coloured glass or other substances, when these were supplied to it exclusively. Many species of Foraminifera, however, form their tests exclusively of particular materials under natural conditions. Thus, in the genus Haliphy- sema (Fig. 17) the test is formed of sponge-spicules ; in Technitella thom'psoni the calcareous plates of echinoderms are selected ; and other instances could be cited in which the organism selects habitually for its shell certain materials from a varied environment in ■v\-hich the particular materials required may be far from common in occurrence relatively to other particles apparently equally suitable (see eopecially Heron-Allen and Earland). Verworn (36) found that