THE PROTOZOA 168 Another example of a parasite with alternation of hosts, in which the course of events is different from that of the malarial parasites, is furnished by the species of the genus Aggregata (p. 353). Here the schizonts are parasitic in crabs, and reproduce themselves by- multiple fission without encystmcnt to form naked germs, mero- zoites, which grow up into schizonts, and multiply again in the same way. If, however, the crab is devoured by a Cephalopod, the merozoites adapt themselves to their new surroundings and become sporonts, which produce gametes. The zygotes form resistant cysts in which they multiply to form spores enclosed in tough sporocysts. The resistant phases pass out of the Cephalopod in its fseces, and to develop further they must be devoured by a crab, in which they become schizonts again. In this case there is no special differentiation of propagative phases in the crab, but the same stage can serve both functions; on the other hand, in the Cephalopod there is no multipUcative phase, but only a propagative phase with resistant cysts. 2. PolymorpMsm in Relation to Growth and Development of the Individual.—In Protozoa which multiply only by equal binary fission, as, for example, many Infusoria, there is practically no difference between young and old forms beyond a slight variation in size. An individual feeds, and in consequence grows slightly beyond the size characteristic of the species to which it belongs. It then divides by equal binary fission into two individuals each shghtly below the specific size, and they in their turn feed and grow and reproduce themselves by fission in due course. In other cases, however, young and adult forms of a species can be clearly distinguished, and may differ in structure as well as in size. Beginning with reproduction by binary fission, the simplest case is where the adult individual divides into two unequal portions, so that parent and daughter can be distinguished, the former not appreciably smaller than ordinary full-grown individuals, the latter, however, very much smaller ; it may be relatively minute. Examples of this type of reproduction are furnished by trypano- somes, a group in which all gradations may be found between equal and very unequal fission (Fig. 127). Still greater differences between parent and young individuals are seen in cases of gemma- tion—that is to say, where the offspring is set free in an undifferen- tiated condition, and acquires after separation from the parent the characters of the adult, as in Acinetaria. The greatest differences between young and old forms are seen, as might have been expected, in cases of reproduction by multiple fission or gemmation. In such cases the young forms produced often differ from the adult in structure and appearance, as well as in size. An example of multiple fission is furnished by the common