241 THE SAJRCODINA proper and the llypothallus the body mcay be drawn out into a stalk. The first events in the reproductive process are tlie formation of the protective and supporting elements of the sporangium. Over the surface of the lobe a membrane or envelope is secreted, the " peridium," and in the interior of the protoplasmic mass a network, or rather feltwork, of filaments, the " capillitium," is produced, of similar nature to the peridium, and in continuity with it; peridium and capillitium contain cellulose or allied substanceS; and the former may contain carbonate of lime in some species. During the formation of the pro- tective peridium and the supporting capillitium the protoplasmic mass remains in the plasmodial condition, but when the accessory structures are completely formed the actual spore- formation begms. According to recent investigations, spore-formation is initi- ated by the degeneration of a certain number of the nuclei; the nuclei that persist then divide by karyokinesis simultaneously throughout the whole Plasmodium. The protoplasm then becomes divided up, directly or indirectly, into as many masses as there are nuclei. The cells thus produced, lying in the interstices of the capillitium, become surrounded each with a tough membrane, and are the spores (Fig. 101). They are liberated by bursting of the peridium, and the hygroscopic properties of the capillitium are the cause of movements in it which assist in scattering the spores. With the formation of the spores the life-cycle has been brought round to the starting-point that was selected. The spores are scattered in all directions by the wind, and germinate in favourable localities. o Jr!i! -^^'P""* given above may be taken as describing the typical series of events m the life-history, which is Hable to considerable Variations in particular 16 Fig. 100.—Badhamia ulricularis. a, Group of sporangia, magni- fied 12 ; &, a cluster of spores ; c, a single spore; d, part of the capillitium containing lime- granules : h and d magnified 170. From Lister. Fiu. 101.—Trichia varia: part of a section through a sporan- gium after the spores arc formed ; threads of the capil- litium arc seen in longitudinal and transverse section. From Lister, magnified 650 dia- meters.