THE GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROTOZOA 207 of Actinosphcerium, the experiments of Smith (207), Mackiunon (174), and Boissevain (151), sliow that increased temperature liastens on encystment, and causes fewer and larger cysts to be formed in which the nuclei are larger but poorer in chromatin ; while at lower temperatures the encystment is retarded, and finally inhibited altogether, and the cysts produced are smaller and more numerous, with nuclei smaller than the normal but rich in chromatin. {d) Barotaxis and Effects of Mechanical Stimuli.—This category includes Geotaxis, or reactions to gravity ; Thigmotaxis, or reactions to the mechanical contacts of hard surfaces ; and Rheotaxis, or reactions to the pressure of currents in the surrounding medium. The influence of gravity is seen in the manner in which many Protozoa, when placed in a vessel, seek of their own accord the bottom in some cases, the surface-film in others. The plasmodia of Mycetozoa exhibit often a well-marked rheotaxis, and move in the opposite direction to currents of water. It has been suggested that a similar rheotaxis may explain the passage of blood-parasites from the invertebrate to the vertebrate host during the act of blood- sucking ; but it is probable that such migrations are purely passive, so far as the parasites are concerned. [ "^Contact-stimuli acting from one side often have a marked effect on the movements of Protozoa. An amoeba tends to adhere to, and spread itself over, a firm surface with which it comes in contact. The movements of Ciliata often cease when they come in contact with a firm substance, and the animal remains still; Piitter (197) has shown that the contact-stimulus may be sufficient to prevent a Paramecium from reacting to thermal or electric stimuli, which would otherwise produce a marked effect upon its movements. Under effects of mechanical stimuli must be included those brought about by changes in the tonicity of the surrounding medium. Such effects have already been discussed above as regards their action on the contractile vacuoles. For the remarkable experiments of Verworn on the change in body-form and ni the nature of the pseudopodia exhibited by amcebaj under the action of different media, see p. 217, infra. Free-living Protozoa are probably seldom if ever subject to such changes, though they might well occur in the environment of marine forms living near the upper limit of the tide-marks, in rock-pools, or other places where the tonicity of the medium might be lowered temporarily by influx of fresh water, as the result of rain or other natural causes. On the other hand, parasitic forms, and especially those which pass from one host to the other, may be subject to rapid changes of tonicity in their environment. In this connection special interest attaches th.f in'^Trr \f liobertson (503) on fish-trypanosomes ; it was found that m undiluted blood or in blood diluted with isotonic solutions the difffpdT.T" underwent no change in vitro, but that when the blood was diluted with water the trypanosomes multiplied by division, and went throueh wfr;''"'l^' lu' ^P' «^ natural development Tn the leech ' LXmTn S?' stimulus which initiates the wi^h f ^"i-^^' organism was a lowermg of the osmotic tension with consequent absorption of water by the protojlasm. Neumann (677i ?eatr?urt^'* "-fl-g«"-tion " of (he Prleosola-^.vJiTT^SatlV. fo£ of waTer ^ ^^""'^ more than one-fifth of its