SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA 153 are sometimes markedly different in size (Doflein, 111). The greatest amount of differentiation is seen in the order Peritricha (p. 448), where microconjugants and macroconjugants can be dis- tinguished. Each conjugant has a micronucleus and a macro- nucleus. The macronucleus begins to degenerate, and finally dis- appears completely. The micronucleus, on the other hand, en- larges and divides by a simple form of karyokinesis (see p. 114, supra). The division of the micronucleus is repeated twice as a rule, but sometimes three times, and, as stated above, in one of these divisions the number of chromosomes is halved ua a great many, possibly in all, cases. Of the four (or eight) micronuclei thus formed, all but one represent reduction-nuclei which are absorbed and disappear. The persistent micronucleus then divides by equating division into two pronuclei, which may be distinguished as migratory and stationary, respectively ; they sometimes exhibit distinct structural differentiation. At this juncture the cuticle of each conjugant is absorbed at the point of contact, and the migratory pronucleus of each conjugant passes over into the protoplasm of the other and fuses with its stationary pronucleus. The gap in the cuticle is now repaired and the two individuals separate, each " ex-conjugant " having a synkaryon constituted by a fusion of one-eighth (or one-sixteenth) of its own original micronucleus with the same fraction of the micronucleus of the other partner. The synkaryon grows and divides into two nuclei, one of which grows and becomes the macronucleus, while the other remains small and becomes the micronucleus, of the ex-conjugant, which thereby becomes indistinguishable from an ordinary in- dividual of the species, and proceeds to start on a course of vegeta- tive growth and reproduction in the usual manner, until the next act of syngamy mitiates a fresh cycle. It has been observed that the two ex-conjugants sometimes differ markedly in their capacities, one of them multiplymg much faster than the other. In the syngamy of Ciliata it is seen clearly that the macronucleus represents effete vegetative or " somatic " chromatm, which is ehmmated bodily from the life-history of the organism, while the micronucleus represents reserve generative chromatin from which, after reduction, the entire nuclear apparatus is regenerated The remarkable feature in the syngamy of Infusoria is the manner m which the conjugants remain distmct, and merely exchange pronuclei (so-called "partial karyogamy"). Versluys (137), foUowmg Boveri, derives this from an ancestral condition of iso- gamic copulation-that is to say, a condition in which the two conjugants fused completely as gametes, both body and nucleus, alter which the zygote divided into two individuals ; on this view the final division of the micronucleus which gives rise to the two