276 THE PROTOZOA sixteen, or thirty-two, up to many thousands. Examples are Gonium (Fig. 119), ^^tephanosphcera, Volvox, etc. In addition to the six orders of flagellates enumerated above, there remain some peculiar parasitic forms, the systematic position of which is extremely doubtful. Such arc the family Lophomonadidoe, represented by Lophomonas blattarum, a common parasite of the end-gut of the cockroach and otlier Orthoptera, and the Trichonijmphidae, including the genus Triclionympha and allied forms, parasitic in the end-gut of termites of various species. Lophomonas blattarum, which has recently been studied by Janicki (70), bears a tuft of flagella arising at the anterior polo of the body from a double ring, or rather horseshoe, of blepharoplasts, situated at the edge of a fuimel- shaped or cup-like structure, the calyx, which is prolonged into an axostylo (Fig. 45). The nucleus lies within the calyx, which is surrounded iir its turn by a peculiar thickening or support, termed the " collar," consisting of free, radially-disposed rods crowded together to form an aureole-like figmre, approxi- mately spherical. The nutrition is holozoic, and food-particles are ingested at any point on the body-surface, as in the Pantastomina. Multiplication takes place by binary or multiple fission in the free state ; and division of the nucleus up to eight within a cyst has been observed, but the entire life-cycle has not been worked out. Associated with L. blattarum, another form, L. striata, occurs, but it is doubtful if this is a distinct species, or a phase or condition of L. blattarum. The group or family Trichonymphidce comprises a number of peculiar parasites fovmd in the digestive tract of various species of Termitidce ; such are the genera Joenia, Lophophora, Calonympha, Devescovina, etc., and finally the genus Trichonymplm, from which the family takes its name. The chief peculiarity of these forms is the possession of numerous flagella, which may be disposed in tufts at the anterior end of the body, in a manner similar to Lophomonas (which by some authorities is included in this family), or may be distributed over the whole body, like a coat of cilia, as in the genera Trichonympha, Dinenympha, etc. According to Hartmann, Trichonymplm hertwigi occurs under two forms, which he believes to represent male and female gamonts. They multiply by binary fission, and also by a process of sporulation to produce swarm- spores which are beheved to be gametes. Dinenympha also exhibits sexual dimorphism, according to Comes (333). From Janicki's investigations, there can be no doubt that Lophomonas is a true flagellate, possibly aUied to Trichomonas, possibly, however, to the Pan- tastomina. The genus Joenia, parasitic in Calotermes flavicollis, was thought by its discoverer, Grassi, to connect Lophomonas and TricJwnympha; the recently-described genus Lopliophora (Comes, 332) also has points of resem- blance to Lophomonas, but is remarkable for the presence of undulating mem- branes running the length of the body. By some authorities, however, the TrichonymphidcB have been placed with the Ciliata, while Hartmann considers that they should rank as an independent class of the Protozoa. Subclass II.: Dinoflagellata seu Peridikiales. The characteristic feature of this subclass is the possession of two flagella, which arise close together about the middle of the body. One flageUum (Fig. 120, e) runs longitudinally backwards as a trailmg flageUum ; the other (Fig. 120, d) runs transversely round the body. It is further characteristic of this group for the cuticle to be greatly thickened, forming a tough cuirass, or lorica, investmg the body. The two flageUa are usuaUy lodged in grooves in the cuirass, the longitudinal flageUum in a longitudinal groove or sulcus, the transverse flageUum in a circular groove, or annulus.