THE H^MOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 285 Effects on the Host.—The trypanosomes found infesting wild animals in Nature are, as a rule, quite specific to a particular host, and, so far as can be observed, perfectly harmless to it. If the relations between host and parasite had always been of this type in aU cases, our laiowledge of trypanosomes would be in a much more backward state even than it is. Of recent years a vast amount of attention has been attracted to these parasites owing to the diseases of man and animals caused by certain species of trypano- somes, and hence termed comprehensively " trypanosomiases." The greater number of these pathogenic species belong, from the structural point of view, to a type which may be called the brucii- type (Fig. 12); such are T. brucii, cause of tsetse-fly disease; T. gam- biense, of sleepmg sickness ; T. evansi, of surra ; T. equiperdum, of dourine; and many others. The structural similarity of these species renders their identification a matter of extreme difficulty. Of a shghtly different type is T. equinum, of " mal de caderas " in South America, with a very minute kinetonucleus ; but the recently- described T. Uppicum of " murrina " (Darling, 428) appears to be a typical member of the brucii-gvovc^. T. theileri, on the other hand, from cattle, is very distinct in size and appearance from the members of the &mcw'-group. Finally, T. cruzi, the cause of human trypanosomiasis in Brazil, stands apart from aU the others in pecuharities of reproduction and development, which have led to its being ranked in a distinct subgenus, Schizotrypanum. The problem of the pathogenic trypanosomes has been touched upon in Chapter II. From a survey of trypanosomes in general, it is clear that the normal type of these parasites is one which is specific to one or to a Umited number of species of hosts, to which it is quite harmless. The pathogenic species are to be regarded as aberrant forms not yet adapted to their hosts, as an instance of a disharmony in Nature. They are species which have probably established themselves but recently in the hosts to which they are pathogenic. As contrasted \vith the natural, non-pathogenic forms, their most striking pecuharities are that they are not specific to one host, but can flourish in a great number of different species of hosts, and that in susceptible animals their power of multiplication has no limit. T. brucii, so deadly to many domestic animals, is known to occur also as a natural parasite of wild animals, to which it is harmless. Structure.—The constitution of the trypanosome-body is of a very uniform type in its general traits, though subject to great variation in different cases as regards size, form, and minor details of structure. The body is typically long and sinuous, with the anterior end tapering gradually to a fine point, while the posterior extremity is usuaUy broader, and tapers more abruptly, or ends bluntly ; but in different forms, even of the same species, there may