20 THE PROTOZOA difficult to detect.* These facts suggest strongly that the parasites produce specific toxins ; but the " sarcocystine " produced by para- sites of the genus Sarcocystis (Sarcosporidia)| is almost the only case up to the present, in which a toxin has been isolated from a Pro- tozoan parasite. Laveran and Pettit (19), however, claim to have obtained " trypanotoxins " from trypanosomes. Considering the facts of parasitism generally, as a problem of natural history, two guiding principles must be borne m mind clearly : the first is that any organism, parasitic or otherwise, tends to be adapted in the best possible manner to the circumstances of its natural environment; the second is that, so long as a parasite is entirely dependent on its host for its existence, it is to its utmost disadvantage to bring about the death of its host. When, therefore, a given parasite is constantly lethal to a particular host or hosts, one of two explanations must be sought for : either the case is one of a disharmony—that is to say, of imperfectly-adjusted relations between the host and parasite ; or the parasite must obtain from the death of the host advantages in the matter of the continuance of the species sufficient to compensate for the temporary loss through destruction of mdividuals. The conditions to which a parasite requires to be adapted are different in many ways from those that influence the life of a free- living organism. When once a parasite has obtained a footing in its proper host, the problem of food-supply is solved for it, smce it finds itself lodged in the midst of abundant nutriment so long as its host lives. On the other hand, if the species is to be main- tained, it is essential that the parasite should be able to infect new hosts, a difficult undertakuig, and one iia which the chances are all against the parasite in most cases. To insure dissemination of the species a large number of offspring must be produced, and special mechanisms and adaptations may be necessary to insure thek reaching then- destmation. Hence, the more parasites become specialized and adapted to thek peculiar mode of life, the more the organs and functions of nutrition tend to become simplified, and the greater the tendency to elaboration and extreme fertility of the reproductive function. Considered generaUy, a parasitic Protozoon reproduces itselt within a given host with one of two results : in the first place, with that of overrunning the host and establishing itself there ; in the second place, with that of producing forms destined to infect new hosts Forms produced in the fii'st manner may be termed the " multiplicative phases " ; theii- function is to produce a stock of the parasite. From the stock are given off what may be termed * Coraware Laveran and McsnU (391), pp. Ifli-l^O. t Lavemu and Mesnil (18); Teichmann (25); Teichmann and Braun (26).