2 THE PROTOZOA cultivated zealously even by many who are not professed biologists, Avith the result that our knowledge of these organisms has made very great strides in the last two decades, and is advancing so rapidly that it becomes increasingly difficult for any single person to keej) pace with the vast amount of new knowledge that is pub- lished almost daily at the present time. While the attention that is now focussed upon the Protozoa has led to a most gratifying increase of scientific and medical knowledge concerning particular forms, it tends frequently to a certain vague- ness in the notions held Avith regard to the nature and extent of the group as a whole. This is owing largely to the fact that many are now attracted to the study of the Protozoa whose aims are purely practical, and who investigate only a limited number of species in minute detail, without having an adequate foundation of general knowledge concerning other forms. Hence it is important to attempt to frame a general definition of the Protozoa, or at least to characterize these organisms in such a way as to enable a dis- tinction to be drawn between them and other primitive forms of life. This object may be attained logically in two ways—either by considering the distinctive characters of the group, or by enu- merating the types of organisms which constitute it; in more technical phraseology, by determining either the connotation or the denotation of the term Protozoa. To attempt this task will be the object of the present chapter. The name Protozoa was first used in 1820* as an equivalent of the German word Urthiere, meaning animals of a primitive or archaic type. This fitting designation superseded rapidly the older term Infusoria {Infusionsthierchen), used to denote the swarnas of microscopic organisms which make their appearance in organic infusions exposed to the air. The word Infusoria is now em- ployed in a restricted sense, as the name of one of the principal subdivisions of the Protozoa (pp. 12 and 430). The first attempt at a scientific definition of the Protozoa was given by von Siebold, who defined them, from a strictly zoological standpoint, as unicellular animals. This definition, or a modifica- tion of it, is stm the one given, as a rule, in zoological textbooks ; and from this time onwards the animal kingdom was subdivided universally into the Protozoa and the Metazoa. The Protozoa, as organisms in which the individual is a single cell, are regarded as those which come first (tt/jStos) in the ascending scale of animal life or in the course of organic evolution ; the Metazoa, m which the' individual is an organism composed of many cells, come after (/xera) the simpler forms of life in rank and time. * For the detaUed history of the growth of scientific knowledge of the Protozoa, see Butschli (2), pp. i-xviii.