THE GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROTOZOA 189 (b) Holozoic Nutrition.—In this type of assimilation three series of events must be distinguished, each of which may be effected by means of special organs : the capture and ingestion of the prey ; its digestion ; and lastly the rejection from the body of the non- nutritive residue (defsecation). The methods of food-capture and ingestion have been dealt vnth above in a general way. As regards food - capture, methods of prehension by means of pseudoj)odia, or by special adhesive organs, such as the suctorial and raptorial tentacles of Acinetaria (p. 457), the tongue of Didinium (p. 442), etc., must be distinguished from methods whereby the food is wafted towards the body in currents produced by special vibratile organs such as flagella and cilia. As regards ingestion of food, a distinction is imposed by the nature of the outer surface of the body-protoplasm, whether naked or invested by a firm cortex or cuticle. In naked forms the food is ingested at any point, by methods which vary in different forms. In Amceba proteus the hinder end of the body is most active in ingestion; in Actinosphcerium all points on the surface are equally active. Rhumbler (204) distinguishes four methods of food-ingestion in amoebae : (1) By " import," when the food is drawn into the protoplasmic body as soon as it comes into contact with it, and with scarcely any movements on the part of the amoeba (Fig. 23) ; (2) by flowing round, " circumfluence," in Avhich the protoplasm, as soon as it comes into contact with the food-particle, flows round it on all sides and engulfs it; (3) by " circumvallation," when the amoeba, while stiU at some distance from the object, sends out pseudopodia which flow towards each side of the prey, and ultimately meet round it and surround it com- pletely, without ever having been in actual contact with it; (4) by " mvagmation," in which the amoeba touches and adheres' to the object, and the portion of the ectoplasm in contact with it is ■ invagmated mto the endoplasm like a tube, the waUs of which become hquefied and fused together, so that the food-particle is as It were, sucked into the endoplasm (Fig. 82). Of these various methods, the process of circumvaUation is most suggestive of a conscious and purposeful act on the part of the amoeba ; but a remarkable parallel to it is seen in the penetration of Lankesterella mto a red blood-corpuscle, as described by Neresheimer (seep 378 tnjra}. In this case, as soon as the parasite comes within a certain distance of the corpuscle, the latter opens its arms, as it were, to Lir'^'t'. it in a manner very similar to the Tn CircumvaUation on the part of an amoeba. which ovo^'' / ^^^'"'"^ '^"^^ «^b«*'^^c^