THE HJ5M0FLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 319 claims to liavo transmitted L. infanium by fleas. In the case of L. tropica, VVenyon points out that the sores occur almost invariably on parts of the pci-so-n not covered or protected by clothing, a fact which is strongly agamst. the infection being eflected by fleas, bugs, or ticks, and indicates that the invertebrate host is some biting fly, probably either a species of mosquito or a sand-fly {Phlebotomus}. Experimental evidence of transmission, however, is as yet lacking. . t . ■, It is clear from the development that the species of Leiskmania are non- flageUatcd phases of a true leptomonad, and it has been proposed by Rogers to abolish the genus Leishmania, and to place the parasites in question m the genus Herpetomonas. The life-cycle of a Leishmania is, however, so different from that of a typical Herpetomonas {Leptomonas), which is parasitic solely in the digestive tract of an insect, that the genus Leishmania may well be aUowed to stand. So long as the development is only known from artificial cultures, the significance of the " spirillar " forms of Leishman caimot be determined. Assuming that they are not merely degenerative forms, they may possibly represent the i^ropagative stage in which the invertebrate host inoculates the parasite back into the vertebrate ; the fact that L. donovani causes a sys- temic disease rather suggests that the initial phase in the vertebrate may be a flagellated form which is carried all over the body in the circulation, and from which the typical Leishmania-'pha,se is developed. Another possible explanation of the spiriUar forms is that they may be gametes, perhaps of male sex; but there is no evidence in support of this interpretation either from observation or analogy, since sexual phenomena in leptomonads have not been observed. Marzinowsky claims, however, to have observed copula- tion of male and female gametes in cultures of L. tropica. Darlmg has described midcr the name Histoplasma capsulatum an organism causing a disease in human beings, and believed to be aUied to Leishmania. It is stated to develop flagellated phases in lung-smears. For Toxoplasma, referred by some to a position near Leishmania, see p. 387. " Leucocytozoon " jnroplasmoides, foimd in epizootic lymphangitis of horses in Senegal (Thiroux and Teppaz), is possibly a Leishmania, but only a single mass of chromatin appears to be present in the body, and no flagellated forms were obtained in cultures; possibly, therefore, its proper systematic position is near Toxo- plasma. VI. The Genus Prowazekia. This genus was created by Hartmann and Chagas (62) for P. cruzi, a species discovered in a culture from human faeces on an agar-plate in Brazil. Two other species have also been described from human faeces—namely, P. wein- hergi, Mathis and Leger (Fig. 141, A and B), and P. asiatica, Whitmore. It would appear, therefore, that several species (or possibly a single species) of this genus occur in various parts of the world in human faeces. Martini considers P. cruzi to be a cause of human diarrhoea and intestinal catarrh in Chma. Nagler has described a species P. parva (Fig. 141, C), which is free-living, and Dunkerly has found a Prowazekia in the gut of the house-fly. The form which Walker has described under the name " Trypanoplasma ranee " very possibly should be referred to Prowazekia; it was obtained from cultures of tho intestinal contents of the frog. In its structure, Prowazekia resembles the genus Bodo in the heteromastigote arrangement of the flagella, and in its nuclear apparatus it resembles Trypano- plasma, with trophonucleus and kinetonucleus. It difl'ers structurally from Trypanoplasma only in the fact that the backwardly-directed flagellum is free from the body, not united to it by an undulating membrane ; it bears, in fact, the same structural relation to this genus that Trichomastix has to Trichomonas. Alexeieff (388) denies that the genus is distinct from Bodo, and considers that the name Prowazekia should be cancelled ; he identifies P. cruzi with B edax Jvlebs, and P. parva with B. saltans, Ehrenberg. *