358 THE PROTOZOA vided the word be not written in italics or with an initial capital letter ; anytliing is better tlian to speak of them as " plasmodia." In human beings three distinct species at least of lisemamoebEe are recognized—namely, the parasites of tertian, quartan, and pernicious or tropical malaria, now generally named Plasmodhim vivax, P. malarice, and P. falciparum, respectively ; the last-named is distinguished from the other two by the sporonts being crescent- shaped, and was put formerly in a distinct genus, Laverania, which has been abolished. Hsemamoebae similar to those causing malaria in man have been described from other mammals—for example, monkeys, several species; bats; and squirrels. The human malarial parasites go through their sporogony in mosquitoes of the subfamily Anophelmae ; the life-cycle of those of other mammals has not been yet fully investigated. In birds hsemamoebae are of very common occurrence. For these Labbe created the genus Proteosoma, a name still in use unofficially as a distmctive appellation ; but the correct name of the avian malarial parasites, commonly assumed to belong all to one species, is variously stated to be Plasmodium prcecox or P. re- lidum. In contrast with the human malarial parasites, those of birds are transmitted by mosquitoes of the subfamily Culicinse. Lastly, parasites are known, from certain reptiles, which are intracorpuscular in habitat, amoeboid in form, and produce pig- ment. Hence they appear to be genuine hfemamoebse, but they do not exflagellate when the blood is drawn,* and very little is known of their life-cycle. By some authorities these reptilian forms are referred also to the genus Plasmodium, but it is best for the present to maintam the genus Hcemocystidium, Castel- lani and Willey, for these reptilian forms. Examples are H. metsch- nikovi (Simond), from an Indian tortoise, Trionyx indicus ; H. simondi, CasteUani and Willey, from a Ceylon gecko, Hemidactylus leschenaulti ; and various other species. Since the transmission of the malarial parasites by mosquitoes was first discovered by Ross in his experiments on the Proteosoma- parasite of birds, the development of human malarial parasites has been studied in full detail by numerous investigators, amongst whom Grassi and Schaudinn (130) must be specially mentioned. Consequently the life-cycle of these parasites is better known than that of almost any other Protozoa, and is now to be found described in every textbook. It will be sufficient, therefore, to describe the life-cycle of the species parasitic in human bemgs in brief outline, as typical of this class of parasites (Fig. 156). * Aragao and Neiva have observed in Plasmodium (Hcemocystidium) diploglossi that, in the male gametocytes on the slide, violent streaming movements occur such as are the prelude, in other hsemamcebse, to cxflagellation ; but formation of gametes was not seen.