CLASSIFICATION OF THE MAIN SUBDIVISIONS 471 stratified epithelium of the epidermis. In this situation they run through two cycles—the one cytoplasmic, the otlier intranuclear. The first is the vaccine-cycle, and is the only part of the develop- ment of which the harmless vaccine-organism is capable; the variola-organism, however, after passing through a vaccme-cycle, proceeds to the extremely pathogenic intranuclear cycle. The vaccine-cycle, according to Calkins, begins with the appear- ance of " gemmules " in the cytoplasm of the cells affected. Each gemmule is a minute grain of chromatin without cytoplasm of its own at first, but as it grows a cytoplasmic body is formed. When full-grown, the parasite sporulates by fragmentation of its nucleus into a great number of grains, Avhich, as gemmules, pass into other cells and repeat the development already described. Several generations of this type may succeed each other before giving rise to the next type. The intranuclear variola-cycle begins in the same way with gemmules, which, however, penetrate into the nucleus, and develop a cytoplasmic body. According to Calkins, they become sexually differentiated, and produce gametes which conjugate. The final result is the production of numerous spores, which are probably the means of spreading the infection. Calkins referred Gytoryctes to the Microsporidia. Now, however, he inclines to the opinion that the genus should be placed amongst the Rhizopods (4). Negri (910) also describes a developmental cycle for Neuroryctes Jiydrophohi(B, which he regards as a true Protozoon, and which Calkins refers also to the Rhizopoda. Siegel (914) describes under the name Gytorhyctes organisms of a type perfectly different from those described by Calkins. He distinguishes four species—C?/to- rJiyctes vaccinice of vaccine and smallpox, G. luis of syphilis, G. scarla- tinoe of scarlet fever, and G. apMMrum of foot-and-mouth disease. 3. The parasitic life-cycles described by Calkins and others have been criticized by a number of investigators, who have mauitained that the bodies in question are not Protozoa, nor even independent living organisms at all, but merely degeneration-products of the cell itself, provoked by a virus yet to be found. Thus, with regard to Guarnieri's bodies (Gytoryctes) of vaccine, it is maintained by Foa, Prowazek, and others, that they consist of nucleolar substance (plastin) extruded from the nucleus ; that they have no definite developmental cycle ; and that infection can be produced by lymph in which Guarnieri's bodies have been destroyed, or by tissue in which they are not present. With regard to the Negri bodies Acton and Harvey (906) come to the same conclusions, and state that similar nucleolar extrusions can be brought about also by other stimuli than the rabies-virus.