24 THE PROTOZOA need only be noted hero that in such cases resistant spores or cysts become unnecessary and superfluous for the propagation of the parasite, and tend to disappear from its developmental cycle. 6. In some cases the parasite may penetrate the ovary of its host, pass into the ova, and thus infect the embryo and the next genera- tion. Transmission of this kind is known in a certain number of cases ; it is never the sole method of transmission, but is always supplementary to other methods. For instance, in " pcbrine " of silkworms, caused by Nosema bombycis, the spores of the parasite arc liberated in the ordinary way from the caterpillar either with the faeces or by its death, and are then eaten accidentally on the leaves by other silkworms ; but a certain number of the parasites pene- trate into the ovary and form spores, which pass through the pupal and imaginal stages of the host into the next generation of silk- worms, which are born infected. In this way the parasite is able to tide over the winter season, when the ordinary method of infec- tion would be impossible. The blood-parasitea of the genus Piroplasma (p. 384, infra) afford another example of germinative infection in the ticks which transmit them. To turn now to the methods by which parasitic Protozoa pene- trate into new hosts ; there are four known methods, which, after what has been said, can be summarized very briefly. The com- monest is the method of casual or contaminative infection, where the host infects itself accidentally by taking up the propagative phases of the parasite from its surroundings—most usually by way of the mouth, with the food, but it may be by way of the respira- tory organs. Other modes of infection are the contagious, as in dourine, already mentioned ; the inoculative, as in malaria and other diseases caused by blood-parasites ; and the so-called " heredi- tary " or " germinative " method, as in Nosema homhijcis and other cases. From the foregoing summary of the methods by which parasitic Protozoa are propagated from one host to another, it is clear that there are very few cases m which it is of direct advantage to the parasite to cause the death of its host. Even where it is necessary, for the propagation of the parasite, that the host should be destroyed by some other animal, as in the case of the Monocystis of the earth- worm, the interests of the parasite are not furthered, and may, indeed, be damaged, if it cause disease or death to the host. In the case of blood-parasites, transmitted by the inoculative method, it may be necessary for the propagation of the parasite that the required phases should be sufficiently abundant in the blood of the vertebrate host to insure the invertebrate host becommg infected when it sucks the blood ; then large numbers of the parasite may be detrimental to the well-being of the host to a greater or less extent,