THE INEUSORIA 459 entiation, the bud is set free with a complete or partial coat of cilia as a free-swimming "embryo," "larva," "swarm-spore" (Schwiirmer), or " gemmula." The larva often becomes parasitic within the body of another Infusorian (Fig. 192), multiplying there by binary fission. Finally it becomes free again, swims away, attaches itself in a suitable locality, and develops into the adult form. The cihated larvae of acinetans exhibit various types of ciliation, commonly classed as peritrichous (Fig. 193, A, B), holotrichous (Fig. 191, E), and hypotrichous. Collin (882) has studied recently the morphology of the different types of larvae. A B Fio. 192.—A and B, StylonycJiia mytUus infested by parasitic Acinetans. N, N, Macronuclei of the Stylonycliia ; P, parasitic Acinetan embryo from wiiich arise small ciliated larvaj (c.e) which swim off and develop into the adult free-living Acinetan. After Stein. The most primitive and commonest larval type of larva amongst the Acinetaria is very similar to a free-swimming stage of a Vorticellid. It has a principal axis round which the body is radially symmetrical, with an upper pole (posterior in movement) bearing a rudimentary adoral zone, and a lower (anterior) pole bearing a mass of secretion or a sucker, indicating the future point of fixation and representing the scopula of the Vorticellid ; the body is surrounded by several rings of cilia forming a zone more or less equatorial in position. Such a form, while retaining its radiate symmetry, may become cither lengthened or shortened to a remarkable degree'in the direction of the principal axis ; in the elongated forms the rings of cilia may increase in number until they cover the whole body, thus producing the holotrichous type. On the other hand, the body may become elongated in the morpho- logically transverse plane, and acquire a bilateral symmetry, with a dorsal surface representing the primitive upper pole and bearing the rudimentary adoral zone, and a ventral surface, with the sucker in the middle of it, repre- senting the primitive lower pole ; secondary anterior and posterior extremities are now distinguishable in relation to progression, but representing opposite