302 THE PROTOZOA wSh f? T ^"«tanccs, in striking contrast with the ease with rcSecf th?T''''°" is effected by the rat-flea. The rat-louse ^1^^ S exceptSr'nn'rl f ^^^oh the trypanosome establishritseH omy exceptionally, and by no means as the host to which it is best adantorl and other forms have been seen in the louse, but the in raceCa; phase has not been observed, and it is probable that ikost of tlie forms de scribed from this host are degenerating forms maintaining a feeble a™ pre carious existence under adverse conditions, and destined to die or and dis appear sooner or later. "ii>_uu__anu ais- The developmental cycle of ScUzotrypanum cruzi in the bug Conorhinus megtstus has been described by Chagas,* and is briefly as follows 13?^ Fig. 132. — Phases of ScJdzotrypanum cruzi in the bug Gonorhinus megistus. a, b, and c, Forms transitional from the ordinary trypanosomes to the rounded forms; d, clump of rounded forms ; e and /, change of rounded into crithidial forms ; g and h, crithidial forms ; i, tiypaniform type from the salivarj? glands ; j, encapsuled form from the intestine. After Chagas (425). The trypanosomes taken up by the bug into its stomach change in about six hours ; they lose their flagellum and contract into rounded, Leishmania- like forms, which multiply actively by fission. After a time multiplication ceases, and the rounded forms become pear-shaped, develop a flagellum at the pointed end, and change into typical crithidial forms which pass on into the intestine, and there multiply by fission. In this way the characteristic condition of the infected bug is produced, with the intestine containing a swarm of trypanomonad individuals multiplying actively. The final stage in the insect is a small trypaniform type which is found in the body-cavity and salivary glands, whence it doubtless passes into a vertebrate host again. * A critical summary and review of the memoir of Chagas is given by Minchin in Nature, vol. Ixxxiv., pp. 142-144 (August 10, 1910), with three text-figures.