THE MASTIGOPHORA 259 Siructure.—The body-form is of three principal types : (1) Au envelope or tough cortex may be entirely absent, and the body is then amoeboid, as in the Rhizomastigina (Figs. 38, 40) ; (2) a thin cuticle may be present, insufficiently rigid to inhibit changes of body-form due to contractility of the living substance (Fig. 15) ; (3) a thicker cuticle necessitates a constant body-form, which is either rigid and unalterable or sinuous and permitting movements of flexion and torsion. In the second type are comprised forms termed commonly " metabolic," on account of the changes of form they exhibit; contractions of the superficial layer of the body pass, as it were, in waves from the anterior to the posterior end of the body, in a manner similar to the peristaltic contractions of the intestine, producing rhythmic form-changes in the body. In species in which the cuticle is thin or absent, a constant body- form may nevertheless be maintained by internal form-giving organs, such as the axostyle of Trichomonas (Fig. 5), Lophomonas (Fig. 45), etc. True internal skeletons, however, do not occur. An external shell or house may be present, enclosing the whole body. The protoplasmic body shows, in the amoeboid forms such as the Rhizomastigina (p. 268), distinct ectoplasm and endoplasm. But as a general rule the thin ectoplasm is converted into a firm cuticle, or periplast, enclosmg the body and containing contractile elements—myonemes. Hence the ectoplasm appears at first sight to be absent, and the protoplasmic body to consist of endoplasm alone. In larger forms the myonemes can be made visible by suitable treatment (Fig. 28), but as a general rule in such minute organisms the existence of myonemes or other contractile mechan- isms can only be inferred from the movements of contractility or flexibility which the body exhibits. The flageUa may perform various functions in different cases ; they may serve as organs of locomotion and of food-capture, as organs of temporary attachment, and as tactile organs. As stated above (p. 52), they may be distinguished by their relation to the progression of the organism, as tractella, anterior, and pulsella posterior in movement. The flagella vary in number and in arrange- ment m different species, and for the different types of the flagellar apparatus a number of technical terms are in use : monomastiqote with a single flageUum (Fig. 38) ; isomastigote, with two or four flagella of equal length (Fig. 43) ; paramastigote, with one long principal flageUum and a short accessory flageUum (Fig 15) heteromastigote, with one or more anterior flageUa directed forwards' and a " trailing flageUum" directed backwards (Figs 5 25) ■ polymastigote, with a tuft of flagella (Fig. 45) ; and holomastigoU with numerous flageUa scattered evenly over the body (Fia 113)' Of these various types of arrangement, the heteromastigote te con-