46 THE PROTOZOA In addition to the passive protection aflordcd by a cuticle, organs of active defence may be present in the ectoplasm in the form of bodies known as trichocysts, found commonly in many ciliate In- fusoria (p. 447, Fig. 187) ; they are little oval or spindle-shaped bodies which on suitable stimulation are converted explosively into a stiff tlu-ead which is shot out from the surface of the body. (For the nematocyst-like organs known as " polar capsules," in Myxo- sporidia and allied organisms, see p. 399, infra.) 2. The ectoplasm is shown to be the seat of movement both by the fact that motile organs arise from it and by the frequent presence in it of special contractile mechanisms. The motile organs which are found in the Protozoa are pseudopodia, flagella, cilia with their various modifications, and undulating membranes ; any of these structures may subserve the function of food capture in addition to, or instead of, that of locomotion. These organs wiU now be described in order, after which contractile mechanisms wUl be dealt with. (1) Pseudopodia are organs of temporary nature, extruded from the protoplasm when required, and retracted when no longer needed. They can be formed, probably, in all cases in wliich the body protoplasm is naked, or limited only by a cuticle not of sufficient thickness to inhibit the movements of the underlying protoplasm. They arise simply as an eruption of the protoplasm at some pomt at the surface of the body, forming an outgrowth or process which varies greatly in different cases as regards size, length, width, com- position, and activity. Pseudopodia always arise in the first instance from the ectoplasm, and may consist tliroughout of this layer alone, in which case they are relatively stiffer and more rigid ; or a core of endoplasm may flow into the pseudopodium when it has grown to a certain length, in which case the pseudopodium is more fluid and flexible. The formation of a pseudopodium is best studied in a common amoeba, such as Amoeba liroteus (Fig. 2) or ^. Umax (Fig. 20) ; it is then seen to arise as a protrusion of the ectoplasm, forming a shallow promi- nence at the surface of the body. The prominence continues to grow out from the body, and is at first hyaline, transparent, and free from granulations, since it consists of ectoplasm alone. In some cases the pseudopodium may grow to a relatively very large size, and still consist of clear ectoplasm alone, as in Ihitamosba histolytica (Fig. 90), a form rather exceptional in this respect ; more usually, so soon as the budding pseudopodium has reached a certain not very great size, a core of granular endoplasm flows into it and forms the axial part of the pseudopodium. It is then easier to study the formation of the pseudopodium, since the granules in the endo- plasm permit the characteristic flowing movements and currents to