THE SARCODINA 253 stages of other Radiolarians have penetrated into the calymma, and live there symbioticaUy—a supposition which is certainly in need of further proof bsfore it can be accepted. 3. The most external layer of the body is a protoplasmic envelope from which the pseudopodia radiate. In Radiolaria, speaking generally, the pseudopodia are straight, slender, and filamentous, composed of motile protoplasm entirely (" myxopodia ") ; but in Acantharia some of the pseudopodia are, like those of Heliozoa, axopodia supported by stiff axial rods of organic substance, which originate deep within the central capsule and pass through the calymma along the axis of the pseudopodium, but without reaching as far as its distal extremity. In some Acantharia {Acanihometrida) are found also peculiar modifications of the bases of certain of the pseudopodia in the form of groups of rod-like bodies, " myonemes " or " myophrisks" (Fig. 105, my.), clustered round each of the spicules of the skeleton. As their name implies, the myonemes are contractile elements which, by their contraction or expansion, alter the hydrostatic balance of the organism, and enable it to rise or sink in the water. According to MoroS and Stiasny, the myonemes are formed in the interior of the central capsule, and are derived from nuclei. In a certam number of Radiolaria a skeleton is absent altogether. The Acantharia have a skeleton composed of a substance which was formerly supposed to be of organic nature, and was termed acanthin by Haeckel, but which consists of strontium sulphate according to Biitschli (310). In other Radiolaria the skeleton, when present, is siliceous. In Acantharia the skeleton invades the intracapsular region, and consists typically of a system of twenty spines or spicules radiating from the centre of the body (Fig. 105). It is a simple and enticing view to regard such a skeleton as origin- ating phylogenetically from a modification of the axis of pseudo- podia. Union of outgrowths from radiaUy-directed spicules gives rise to a lattice-work forming a spherical perforated shell, and as the animal grows in size several such concentric spheres may be formed, one within the other, supported by radial bars which represent the original radiating spicules (Fig. 107). In Radiolaria other than Acantharia the skeleton is usually entirely extracapsular, and exhibits a variety of form and structure which cannot be dis- cussed further here. In some of the Tripjdara foreign bodies are utilized for building up the skeleton, either to form the basis of spines secreted by the animal or to construct a coat of armour on the exterior of the body (Borgert). Life-History. — Reproduction of the Radiolaria is effected in some instances by binary fission—namely, in those forms in which a skeleton is lacking or consists of loose spicules. The nucleus