THE NEOSPORIDIA 409 SuBOBDEK II • PoLYSrOREA.—Numerous spores formed iu the plasmodium. The OTpatest diameter of the spore lies in the sutural plane. Th?ee familiS (1) Myxoholidce, with two polar eapsules (some imes reduced to o TandCth a peculiar vacuole, which stains with lodme in the amccbula TyriiirtisIue-paE^ of fishes ; principal genera Myxobolus, with round or oval spores, and Henneguya, with tail-like processes to the spore. (2) ; spores with two polar capsules, no lodmophilous vacuole ; tvpically "free" {i.e., coelozoic) parasites. Principal genus Myxidiwn, A Jh the polar capsules at opposite poles of the spore ; M. heberkuhm, the common parasite of the pike. i . i ^ (3) CMoroymjxidce, with four polar capsules; the best known species is Chloromyxum leydigi (Fig. 164), from the gaU-bladder of various Elasmobranch fisliGS To the typical Myxosporidia enumerated in the above summary must be added two genera recently described: „ ,, -, i t 4.1, Coccomyxa morovi (Leger and Hesse, 765), from the gaU-bladder of the sardine ; the plasmodium has only two nuclei, a large and a small, and torms a single spore with two valves and two parietal cells, one polar capsule, and an amcebula with two nuclei. This form seems to be transitional between Myxosporidia and Microsporidia, and should perhaps form the type of a third suborder, the Monosporea. Paramyxa paradoxa (Chatton, 761), a parasite of the intestine of a pelagic Annelid larva ; the multiphcative amcebula stage is succeeded by a plasmodial Fig. 169.—Spore of Geratomyxa sphceruhsa. p.c, Polar capsules ; sp.p., siJoro- plasm ; s., suture of the sporocyst; x, " irregular, j)ale masses of imdetermined origin." After Thelohan, magnified 750. stage with two nuclei of unequal size, which multiply by fission. Finally the Plasmodium produces four spores, each with a single parietal cell and no polar capsule. Chatton is of opinion that this species is the type of a new order of Cnidosporidia, to be named Paramyxidia. Order II.: Actinomyxidia.—The members of this group are only known, up to the present, as parasites of oligochaete worms, fresh-water or marine. They were discovered originally by Stole, who found, in the intestinal epithelium of different species of Tvhi- ficidce, the spores of three genera of these parasites, named by him Synactinomyxon, Hexactinomyxon, and Triactinomyxon, respectively. The nature and affinities of these organisms remained for some time doubtful; but the investigations of Caullery and Mesnil (769) on Sphceraciinomyxon stolci, a species found by them in the coelome of several species of Tuhificidce, established indisputably the position of these parasites amongst the Cnidosporidia. Their distmctive features are—first, that the plasmodial stage is represented only by a binucleate amcebula, which is the spore-forming phase ; secondly, that the spore is of very large size and exhibits a ternary symmetry, with three valves and three polar capsules.