381 THE H^MOSPORIDIA structure, a compact mass of chromatin or karyosome contained in a vacuole-like space—in other words, a protokaryon of the simplest type (compare Breinl and Hindle, 730). The remarkable form Nicollia quadrigemina has an oval nucleus at the blunt end of the body, with two karyosomes, a larger one placed close to the surface, and a smaller one nearly at the centre of the pear-shaped body (Nicolle, 746). With the unreliable method so much in vogue until quite recently, of making preparations by drying blood-smears and staining them with the Eomanowsky stain, the nucleus may show various appearances about which much has been written, and which cannot be interpreted with certainty until they have been examined by better cytological methods. In such prepara- tions the appearance is usually presented of a deeply-stained karyosome lying at the edge of, or near to, a diffuse, more or less irregular chromatin- mass ; or the nucleus as a whole may appear as an evenly-stained mass lying usually at one end of the body in baciUary forms, or near the rounded ex- tremity in the pear-shaped forms. In other cases, in addition to the principal chromatinic mass, some specimens may exhibit a grain or dot, which from its staining reactions appears to be chromatin. Many efforts have been made to establish on this slender basis a theory of nuclear dimorphism for piro- plasms, and to interpret the second grain as a kuietonucleus ; but it bears no resemblance to any such body in its structural and cytological relations, and is inconstant in its occurrence, being entirely absent as a general rule. A question much discussed is that of the occurrence of flagellated forms of piroplasms in the blood of the vertebrate host. In a few rare cases, in parasites preserved by the defective method mentioned in the last paragraph, irregular streaks of substance similar to chromatin in its staining properties have been seen extending from the karyosome even some way beyond the body of the parasite (Fantham, 735; Kinoshita, 741), and these appearances have been interpreted as flageUa ; but the published figures of these structures do not in the least favour any such interpretation. Eanoshita suggests that the " flageUa " figured by him may represent formation of microgam'etes. Of more value are the observations of Nuttall and Graham-Smith (748) on the living parasites. They observed that a pear-shaped parasite, when free in the blood-plasma, is capable of moving very rapidly, with the blunt end forwards, while the posterior pointed end exhibits active vibrations which they compare to those of a fish's tail. In some cases the hinder end was observed to be prolonged into a flagellum-like process. The authors cited explain the absence of flagellated forms in permanent blood-preparations by supposing that the flageUum becomes retracted when preserved; if so, it is a structure of a very different kind to a true flageUum, such as that of a trypanosome, and its relations to the progression of the parasite also differ. Breinl and Hindle (730) have figured bifiagellate organisms from the blood of dogs dying from piroplasmosis. The flagellates in question were of transi- tory appearance, and were onlyfomid in the blood of the dog the day before its death. The authors interpret these forms as a phase of the piroplasm ; but a consideration of the figures given, and of the circumstances under which the flagellates were found, leave hardly any doubt but that the forms seen were mtestmal flagellates, Bodo or Prowazekia sp., which, in the pathological condition of the host, had passed into the blood (see p. 258). The development of the parasite in the vertebrate host appears to consist solely of multiplication by fission (Figs. 160, 161), usually either binary or quadruple, within the corpuscle; though the presence of the annular forms, apparently representing young