362 THE PROTOZOA have, according to Schaudinn (130), no signet-ring stage in their development, but are of compact form, and grow more slowly than the trophozoites whicli become schizonts. The sporonts are of two types, male and female (Fig. 156, Villa., VIII6.) ; the male forms have a large nucleus and lightly-staining, clearer cytoplasm ; the female forms have a smaller nucleus and more deeply staining cytoplasm. In the tertian and quartan parasites the sporonts are distmguishable from the schizonts by their greater size and more abundant pigment in larger grains. In the parasite of pernicious malaria, the sporonts are further characterized by their sausage- like form (Fig. 156, Vila., VII&.), and are thereby easily dis- tinguishable from the rounded schizonts. The sporonts only undergo further change if taken up by a mos- quito of a species capable of acting as the specific host of the para- site. When human blood containmg various stages of the parasite is ingested by a culicine mosquito, all stages of the parasite are digested with the blood ; but if taken up by an anopheline, the ripe sporonts resist the action of the digestive juices of the mosquito, and develop further in its stomach, while all other stages succumb. The sporonts burst the corpuscle in which they are contained, and round themselves off. In the male sporont the nucleus undergoes rapid fragmentation into some four or six nuclei (Fig. 156, IXa.), leaving a residual karyosome at the centre of the body, as in Coccidium (Schaudinn, 99). The daughter-nuclei place themselves at the surface of tlie body, and grow out with explosive suddenness into fine filaments of chromatin, ensheathed in a scarcely perceptible layer of cytoplasm (Fig. 156, Xa.). Each such filament is a micro- gamete, of slender, spirochsete-like form, without flagella, but endowed with powers of active movement. The micro gametes lash about violently, often dragging the body of the sporont after them, and presenting a superficial resemblance to flageUa, which, indeed, they were formerly thought to be ; hence the process of microgamete-formation, which can be observed without difficulty in freshly-drawn blood, was thought to represent a flagellated " Polymitus " stage of the parasite, and was termed " exflagella- tion." The microgametes by their movements finally become detached, and swim away from the body of the sporont, which perishes as residual protoplasm. In the female sporont the nucleus divides to give ofE a reduction- nucleus (Fig. 156, X&.) ; it is then ripe for fertilization by a micro- gamete (Fig. 156, XI.), which penetrates the body and fuses with the female pronucleus. The zygote then changes from a rounded form into an elongated vermicule, termed an " ookinete " (Fig. 156, XII., XIII.), which moves by gliding movements, hke a gregarine. The ookinete bores its way through the Iming epithelium of the