THE PROTOZOA 208 (e) Galvanotaxis and Effects of Eleclrical Stimuli.—Vvotozoo. placed in an electric field—that is to say, in a drop of water between the two poles of a battery under a cover-glass on a slide—are alfected to a marked degree, but with opposite results in different species. Opalina places itself parallel to the direction of the current, with its anterior end towards the anode. With a current of moderate intensity it swims towards the anode ; but with a stronger current the speed at which the animal moves is diminished, and with still more mcreased strength of current it is carried passively towards the kathode, with its hinder end forward, as the result of kataphoric action (Wallengren, 215). Chilomonas behaves in a similar manner. Paramecium and Golpidium, on the other hand, move towards the kathode. Spirostomum with a moderate current also moves towards the kathode, but with stronger currents it first contracts its myonemes spasmodically, and then takes up a position transverse to the direction of the current, and remains still. Accorduig to Wallengren (215), the apparently different galvano- tactic phenomena exhibited by different ciHates admits of a uniform explanation, by a combination of two effects. In the first place, in the half of the body turned towards the kathode the expansion- phase of the ciliary movement is stimulated; in the anodic half of the body, the contraction-phase is stimulated. In the second place, the turning movements of the ciliates are determined mechanically (compare the " avoiding reactions " mentioned above), and may be effected either by the expansion or by the contraction of certain cilia. Consequently, if the turnmg movements are effected by beats of expansion, the animal places itself automatically in a posi- tion in which it moves towards the anode; if beats of contraction are effective in the turnmg movement, it moves towards the kathode. According to Statkewitsch (209), the galvanotactic re- action is one which overcomes chemotactic stimuli, and leads the animals irresistibly into toxic media in which they are kiUed. 6. Degeneration and Regeneration.—The fact that under certain conditions Protozoa undergo a process of physiological degenera- tion, which may end in death, has been observed frequently by all those who have kept cultures of Protozoa under observation for a long time. It has been pomted out in a previous chapter (p. 135) that the life-cycles of Protozoa exhibit depression-periods (Calkins) which are characterized chiefly by cessation of feeding, metabolism, growth, and reproduction, together with increase in the size of the nucleus, and tendency to deposition of grains of fat or other sub- stances in the protoplasm, giving the body a characteristic dark- grey appearance. Such periods recur regularly and apparently normally in the life-cycles both of Protozoan and Metazoan cells