THE PROTOZOA 184 and grows up either into a sporont or into a schizont again. The sporont possesses only a single large nucleus, the primary nucleus originally present in the amoebula, and a great number of chromidia. When the sporont enters upon the reproductive phase, the primary nucleus degenerates, and an immense number of secondary nuclei are formed from the chromidia. Ihen the protoplasmic body divides up to form as many cells as there are secondary nuclei. The cells thus produced are the gametocytes, each of which divides by mitosis to form four small cells, the gametes, which acquire flagella, swim off, and copulate with gametes produced from another sporont; there appear, however, to be no differences exhibited by the gametes of opposite sexes. The zygote forms a shell and grows into a sporont. Since the zygote is very much smaller than the amoebula produced by schizogony, the shell formed by it is also smaller. This shell is later the initial chamber of the polythalamous adult, and thus leads to a dimorphism in the adult shells, so-called " micro- sphaaric " and " megalospha3ric " forms (p. 235)—a dimorphism related, in this case, not to the manner in which the adult individuals reproduce themselves, but to the manner in which they have been reproduced. In free-living forms the alternation of generations is related to external conditions of the environment, as, for example, seasonal changes ; the sexual generation may appear in the autumn, while the non-sexual generations are found in the spring and summer. In parasitic forms, on the other hand, alternation of generations is of common occurrence in relation to a change of hosts. Thus, in the life-cycle of the Coccidia (Fig. 152), described above, the multi- plicative phases reproduce non-sexually by schizogony, as the so- called " endogenous cycle " ; the propagative phases are preceded b}^ gamete-formation, leading to spore-formation, the so-called " exogenous cycle." In Haamosporidia, such as the malarial parasites, for example (Fig. 156), the alternation of generations is related to an alternation of hosts ; the non-sexual, schizogonous generations take their course in the blood of the vertebrate host, in which the gamonts are produced, but do not develop further unless taken up by the invertebrate host, in which alone gametes are formed and sporogony takes place. The phrase " alternation of generations " must not be construed into meaning that the sexual and non-sexual generations succeed each other in a regular alternation. On the contrary, such regular alternation, if it occurs at all, is rare, and as a rule a single sexual generation is followed by several, or it may be by an immense number, of non-sexual generations before the sexual cycle recurs. The malarial parasite can multiply non-sexually in the blood for many years without dying out; and if propagated artificially from one