THE HiEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 313 which it takes up in vertebrate blood, and tliat in this way stages of the life-cycle of two or more distinct parasites may be confused together. Up to the present, however, no blood-sucldng insect has been proved satisfactorily to harbour flagellate parasites not derived from vertebrate blood. After deducting doubtful species of GritUdia, there remains a residue which appears to comprise genuine, independent species, parasites of the digestive tract of insects. As examples of such species may be cited 0. campanulata, recorded from the digestive tract of Ghirononms plumosus (Leger, A.P.K., ii. 1903, p. 180), from that of the larva of Ptychoptera (Leger and Dnboscq) and of caddis-worms (Mackinnon, 547) ; G. gerridis, from Gerris spp. (Patton, 550 ; Porter, 555) ; and possibly others. The life-cycle of G. gerridis has been investigated by Patton and Porter. The parasite appears under two principal phases : an active, flagellate phase, which grows to a large size, and multiplies by fission, sometimes very actively, forming rosettes ; and a resting, non- flagellate Leishmania - form. The flagellate forms may be free in the digestive tract, or may attach themselves to the lining epithelium of the gut by their flageUa. The non-flagellate forms are found in the crop, where they grow into the adult phase, and in the rectum, where they become encysted. The flagellate phase is found throughout the digestive tract and in the ovaries, but has not been observed to pass into the ova. The encysted forms pass out of the rectum, and infect new hosts by the contaminative method. IV. The Genus Leptomonas (Hbrpetomonas). The genus Leptomonas comprises typical intestinal parasites of insects, especially Diptera and, above all, Muscidce. Several species are also known in Hemiptera. They are in most cases parasites of the insect alone, having no alternate host, and iafection is brought about by the contaminative method, so far as is known, cysts dropped by one host being accidentally devoured by another. But some species are found as parasites of the latex of Euphor- biacese, and in this case an alternation of hosts occurs. The para- sites are taken up from the plants by bugs (Hemiptera) which suck then- juices, and by the agency of the bugs the flageUates are moculated into other plants again (Lafont; Bouet and Roubaud, 530 ; Fran9a, 537, 538). There can be little doubt that in this case the bug IS the primary, the plant the secondary host. The plants, or the parts of them that are infected by the Leptomonas, suffer considerably. The term " flagellosis " has been proposed for the disease.