470 THE PROTOZOA The Chlamydozoa. The name Chlamydozoa of Prowazek (Strongyloplasmata, Lip- schiitz) was proposed in order to include in the first place a class of highly problematic organisms believed to be the causes of certain diseases of man or animals. It is not yet certain exactly Avhat diseases are to be referred to Chlamydozoa. According to Hart- mann (909), undoubted chlamydozoal diseases are vaccinia and variola, trachoma, and molluscum contagiosum, amongst human beings, and in birds epithelioma contagiosum and diphtheria. Further diseases probably attributable to Chlamydozoa are hydro- phobia, scarlet fever, measles, foot-and-mouth disease of animals, and " Gelbsucht " of silkworms. In all these diseases the virus has certain common properties, while exhibiting specific peculiarities in each case. It can pass through ordinary bacterial filters without losing its virulence, and it produces characteristic reaction-products or ceU-inclusions in the infected cell. In order to maderstand why these organisms should be men- tioned in a book dealing with Protozoa, the subject is best dealt with in an historical manner. The advances in the knowledge of the diseases mentioned may be summarized briefly in four principal stages : 1. Various investigators at different times have made known the existence of peculiar ceU-inclusions in the infected ceUs in a certain class of diseases, inclusions which have been known by the names of their discoverers—for instance, in trachoma (Prowazek's bodies), vaccinia (Guarnieri's bodies), scarlet fever (Mallory's bodies), hydrophobia (Negri's bodies), etc. 2. By many investigators the characteristic ceU-inclusions were identified as the actual parasitic organisms causing the disease. They received zoological names, were referred to a defijiite position in the ranks of the Protozoa, and attempts were made to work out and construct a developmental cycle for them. The supposed parasites of molluscum contagiosum were referred to the coccidia ; those of vaccinia and variola were given the name Cytoryctes; of hydrophobia, Neuroryctes ; of scarlet fever, Cydasterium. Calkins (908) studied in great detail the cell-inclusions of vaccine and smallpox, and described a complete developmental cycle, in its main outlines as follows : The primary infection is brought about, probably, at some spot on the mucous membrane of the respiratory or buccal passages by air-borne germs (spores). After active pro- liferation at the seat of the primary infection, the parasites are carried to all parts of the body in the circulation, probably during the initial fever. These two early phases are hypothetical. The thirdJ'phase is the appearance of the parasites in the cells of the