THE PROTOZOA 3i4 in the sequel, together with a brief summary of the chief variations which each phase may exhibit in other coccidia. 1. The sporozoites, liberated in the digestive tract, are small gregarmii^ which move by gliding movements, and penetrate into epithehal cells by means of their pointed anterior end (Fig. 152, A, B). 2. In the cytoplasm of the cell they grow into the large rounded schizonts, distinguished by the absence of reserve food-materials in their cytoplasm, and by the large vesicular nucleus with a karyosome (Fig. 152, B). In a few rare instances—namely, Coccidium mitrarium, Lav. et Mcsn Cryptosporidium muris Tyzzer, and the recently-described Selenococcidium intermedium (see p. 351, mfra), the trophozoite is free as in gregarines. In Barroussia spiralis, from Cerebratulus sp., the schizont during its early phases of growth IS vermiform and spiraUy twisted, but becomes rounded o/when iuU grown Awerinzew, 47). In the intranuclear parasite of the mole, Cydo- spora caryolytica, the schizonts are stated by Schaudinn (147) to be sexuaUy differentiated, as also the merozoites to which they give rise. In the case oiAdelea omto however, a sexual differentiation of the schizonts aUeged by Siedlecki (i<ig. 153) is stated by ScheUack and Reichenow to be due to a confusion of two distinct species; the supposed microschizonts, giving rise to microgametocytes of biedlecki, are stated to be in reaUty the schizonts of Barroussia alpina, Leg'er while biedlecki s macroschizonts alone represent the true schizonts of Adelea ovata; compare also Debaisieux. Chagas, however, describes in Adelea hartmanni [Chagasia hartmanni, Leger, 644) distinct male and female genera- tions, microschizonts and macroschizonts, multiplying by microschizogony and macroschizogony respectively. 3. In the full - grown schizont (agamont) the nucleus divides repeatedly by binary fission (Fig. 51, p. 106 ; Fig. 152, C, D, E) until a variable number of nuclei, about thirty or forty as a rule, are produced. The body of the schizont then divides into as many segments as there are nuclei, leaving a certain quantity of residual protoplasm, and each segment becomes a merozoite (" schizozoite," Leger). The schizogony takes place without any formation of resistant membranes by the parasite, but the remains of the host-cell may furnish an envelope or cytocyst within which the multiplication of the parasite proceeds. As a general rule the merozoites produced are arranged like a barrel round the residual protoplasm (Fig. 163, F), forming a so called corps en harillet. In Caryo- tropha a double process of schizogony occurs, recalling somewhat that of Porospora ; the schizont divides into a number of cells, " schizontocytes " or " cytomeres," each of which divides in its turn into a cluster of merozoites arranged in a corps en barillet. The nuclear multiplication in the schizont is not always effected by simple binary fission, as in Coccidium schubergi. In Adelea ovata binary or multiple fission of the nucleus occurs (JoUos). First the centriole contained in the karyosome, and then the karyosome itself, divides into two ; the whole nucleus may then divide into two also, or the division of the karyosome may be re- peated several times, until the nucleus contains a number of karyosomes. In the later nuclear divisions the karyosome becomes very small, consisting of little more than the bare centriole, while the peripheral chromatin increases