THE NUCLEUS 67 origin), by concentration of chromidia into a clump or mass which acquires gradually the structure and organization of a true nucleus, is a frequent and normal occurrence in the life-cycle, as will be seen m subsequent chapters. Those who regard the chromidial condition as the more primitive will see m the formation of secondary nuclei from chromidia the ontogenetic recapitulation of the phylo- genetic origin of the nucleus as a structural element of the cell-body. From the foregomg it is seen that nuclei, in the Protozoa, do not necessarily arise from pre-existing nuclei; the generalization " Omnis nucleus e nucleo," though it probably holds good universally for the cells of Metazoa, cannot be maintained for Protozoa if the term " nucleus " be taken in its strict sense. On the other hand, there Fig. 32.—Arcella vulgaris, to show formation of secondary nuclei from the chro- midia. A, Ordinary type of individual, with two nuclei and a ring of chromidia ; B, example in which secondary nuclei are being formed in the chromidia! ring. N>-, Primary nucleus ; N'^, secondary nucleus in process of formation ; chr., chromidial ring ; o, aperture of the shell. After R. Hertwig (65). is no evidence that chromatm, within or without the nucleus, can ever arise de novo or m any way except from pre-existmg chromatin, the particles of which grow and multiply as the result of processes of assimilation such as constitute the most essential characteristic of the living substance generally. There is no doubt, however, that chromatin may itself give rise to other substances of achromatinic nature, and probably of simjpler constitution, by a process of breaking down of its complex sub- stance ; and also that there may be present in the cell various substances very similar to chi'omatin in their properties and charac- teristics, representing stages in the buildmg-up of the complex material of the chromatm-substance. In one or the other of these two ways it is possible to account for bodies in the cell laiown by various names, such as " metachromatinic grains," " cliromatoid