406 THE PROTOZOA f^- ^^-^ nuclei—namely, four peripheral and two central (Fjg 1G7, i^; Fig. 108, F). The reduction-nuclei are left out in the cold, and die oil. Froni each sporoblast a spore is formed in the following way (i< ig. 107, G—J ; Fig. 108, 0): Of the four peripheral cells, two are parietal cells which give r;so to the two valves of the sporocyst, the other two as capsu- Jogenous colls produce the two polar capsules ; the two central nuclei with the mass of protoplasm in which they lie become the amocbula or sporozoile of the spore. Tlie sporozoito is thus at first binucleatc, but when the spore is fully formed its two nuclei fuse into one. There can be no doubt that this fusion represents a karyogamy, and that the single nucleus is a synkaryon. The cells which form the valves of the sporocyst and polar capsules degenerate when the spore is completely formed. Fig. 108.-—Spore-formation in Myxoholus pfeifferi. A, Propagative cell from tlie Plasmodium ; B, division of the propagative cell into .two unequal halves ; G, the smaller cell of the preceding stage applies itself as a flattened envelope- cell to the larger ; D, a mass formed by union of two couples of cells similar to those of the preceding stage—the pansporoblast; E, pansporoblast with fourteen nuclei, two representing the envelope-cells, and twelve arisen by division of the two larger cells of the preceding stage ; F, the pansporoblast divided into the two envelope-cells and two masses, sporoblasts, each con- taining six nuclei, which are arranging themselves so that two nuclei are more central, four more peripheral in position ; G, spore in process of forma- tion ; the sporocyst is formed by two parietal cells {p.); at the upper pole are the two polar capsules (p.c.) in their capsulogenous cells ; and the lower part of the spore is occupied by the binucleatc amoebiila (am.) ; H, rijDe spore ; in the amoebula the two nuclei have fused into one ; lettering as in the last. After Keysselitz. Mercier (705-5), on the other hand, who has also studied the spore formation of Myxoholus pfeifferi, differs from Keysselitz in his account, more especially with regard to the sexual processes. He affirms that the plasmodium contains four zones: (1) A peripheral zone, without nuclei or spores; (2) a zone of nuclei, all similar amongst themselves, which multiply by mitosis ; (3) a zone containing nuclei of different sizes and early stages of spore-formation ; and (4) a central region containing ripe spores. In the third zone differentiation of microgametes and maerogametes takes place. The gametes copulate, and the zygote is a pansporoblast. Its nucleus (synkaryon) divides to form fourteen nuclei, two of which arc rejected, while from the remaining twelve arise two sporoblasts, each with six nuclei, and finally two spores.