THE PROTOZOA 42 suspended in the form of a network in another fluid with which it does not mix—a condition which could not exist for moi-e than an instant of time, since tlie fluid reticulum must break up immediately into minute droplets. If, on the other hand, the reticulum is of rigid consistence, the protoplasm as a whole could not be fluid, any more than a sponge soaked in water could behave as a fluid mass in the aggregate. The difiiculty can, however, be overcome by supposing the apparent reticulum to be the optical expression, not of a fine network of fibrils, but of delicate lamellae limiting minute closed chambers, or alveoli. Then the fine line seen with the microscope joining any two adjacent nodal points would be the optical section of the wall or lamella separating two contiguous alveoli, and protoplasm as a whole would possess a honeycombed structure comparable to that of a fine foam or lather—the fiuid lamellae of the foam represented by the apparent reticulum of the protoijlasm, and the air-contents of the individual bubbles repre- sented by the enchylema. Or, to express the state of things in a different manner, protoplasm could be regarded as an emulsion of very fine structure, composed of two fluids not miscible with one another—namely, the more fluid enchjdema, which is suspended in the form of minute droplets in the more viscid substance forming the alveolar framework. This is the so-called alveolar theory, especially connected with the name of Biitsclili; by this conception of protoplasmic structure, not only are the necessary phj^sical con- ditions satisfied, but an explanation is given for many peculiarities of protoplasmic bodies, such as the radiate arrangement of the meshes of the reticulum commonly observed either at the surface of the body or around solid or fluid bodies contained in the proto- plasm, and so forth. The various theories that have been mentioned all assume tacitly that protoplasm is monomorphic—that is to say, that it possesses one fundamental type of minute structure. Fischer, on the other hand, seeks to unite all the different theories by supposing that protojDlasm is a polymorphic substance—that is to say, one that may exhibit a diversity of structure at different times and under different conditions, as the result of changes produced by its mherent vital activity. Thus, he supposes that a given mass of protoplasm may be at one time homogeneous, and at another time gramdar, reticular, fibrillar, or alveolar, as the result of a process of " vital precipitation," and that by reabsorption of the structural elements it may return to a homogeneous condition. Faure-Fremiet (38 and 38-5) also regards protoplasm as a homogeneous fluid, which is pre- cipitated by reagents, and which normally contains, in suspension, a certain number of granulations, some temporary, others per- manent in nature ; compare also Degen (154).