THE H^MOSPORIDIA 365 ordinary multiple typo, taking place in the blood-corpuscles, ^^J - ^'^^^^^^^^^ and H. di'ploglossi. According to Dobell, however, the schizogony of H. simondi consists simply of binary fission as a ru e, somotirnos o division into four. The male and female gametocytcs, sharply differentiated by their staining properties in this as in other species, are stated also to have the nucTerd^ivided into two when mature ; Woodcock (687), however, disputes the correctness of DobeU's interpretations. In no case as yet is the inverte- brate host of any Hcemocystidium known. 2. The Halteridia.—The characteristic form of parasite in this section, only known to occur in the blood of birds, is an organism which is found Mdthin the nucleated red corpuscle, and which does not displace the nucleus of the corpuscle, but grows round it into a halter-hke form, whence the name Halteridium given to it by Labbe. Hence the parasite is easily distinguished from Proteosoma, which is more compact in form, and which displaces the nucleus of the corpuscle. Halteridium is amoeboid, but the form-changes are generally slight; it produces the characteristic melanin-pigment in abundance ; and when the blood is drawn, " exflagellation " of the ripe male sporonts takes place very readily. Not merely the gamete-formation, but the subsequent fertilization and the for- mation of the ookinete, can be observed on the slide. It is in this form that Macallum first followed out the whole process, and so made clear the true significance of the " Polymitus " stage in the malarial parasites. The correct generic name for the Halteridium-ip&rSbsite is believed to be Hcemopwteus. Labbe considered the halteridia of different birds to be all one species, to which he restricted the specific name danilewskyi (Grassi and Feletti). By other naturalists several species have been distinguished and named after the birds in which they occur, as H. noctuce of the little owl, H. cohimbce of pigeons, etc. The halteridia of different birds show considerable differences in form, structure, and appearance, and there can be no doubt that there are many species of these parasites ; but it by no means follows that a given species is restricted to a particular host. It is probable that in some cases one and the same species may be capable of infecting several species of avian hosts. The Sergent brothers were unable, however, to infect canaries with H. columhce of pigeons. The life-cycle of these parasites has been the subject of con- flicting statements. We shall consider first the type of develop- ment made known by the Sergent brothers (686) in part, and more fully by Aragao (Fig. 157). The development described by Schau- dinn (132), to which the utmost doubt attaches, will be dealt with later (p. 390). The invertebrate host of H. columbce is a biting fly of the genus Lynchia, of the dipterous family Hippoboscidce. These flies, though