THE PROTOZOA 408 The amcebulae next associate in couples. In each couple the cytoplasm of the associates undergoes partial fusion. In one associate the loosely-textured nucleus remains unaltered ; in the other the nucleus divides by mitosis, and one of the two daughter-nuclei, with a small quantity of the cytoplasm, is cast off. The bodies of the two associates now fuse completely into a single mass containing two nuclei, a large and a small. The larger nucleus represents the unaltered nucleus of one of the two original associates; the smaller nucleus is the reduced nucleus of the other associate. The binucleate stage formed by the association of two amcebulae (planonts) is the foundation of the Plasmodium. The two nuclei remain separate and multiply independently, maintaining their difference in size. Hence the young Plasmodia consist of nuclei of two sizes, small and large ; and this difference in size, which has often been noted in the plasmodia of other species, is due, according to Auerbach, to the fact that the smaller nuclei are derived from a nucleus which has undergone reduction, while the larger nuclei are derived from one which has not done so. So far as it is possible to generalize from the few recorded observa- tions and experiments, the germmation of the Myxosporidian spore probably takes place always in the digestive tract of the new host. The first act in the process is the romading ofE of the amoeboid sporozoite ; next the polar capsules are discharged, the fmiction of these organs being, apparently, that of fixing the spore to the wall of the gut. Then the two valves of the sporocyst separate, and the amoebula creeps out; its two nuclei copulate to form the syn- karyon, if they have not done so already. In this way the planont- phase arises from the sporozoite, and is set free in the digestive tract, whence it migrates to the organ or tissue of which it is a specific parasite. When its destination is an organ which, like the gall-bladder, is in open communication Avith the gut, the migration may be comparatively simple and direct; but in the majority of cases the journey to be accomplished is a complicated one. It is probably safe to assume that in most cases the planont passes through the wall of the gut into the channels of the blood or lymph, and by this route arrives ultimately at its destination. In the organ or tissue which the parasite attacks, the planont probably passes through a period of cell-parasitism and proliferation by binary fission ; ultimately the plasmodial phase is initiated by association of two planonts, of which the bodies fuse, but the nuclei remain separate. Growth of the body with independent multipli- cation of its nuclei to four (Disporea) or many (Polysporea) produces the spore-forming plasmodium characteristic of the order. The Myxosporidia are classified as follows : Suborder I.: Disporea.—Only two spores formed in the plasmodium. The greatest diameter of the spore is at right angles to the sutural plane (Fig. 169). One family, CeratomyxidcB, with two genera : Ceralomyxa, with several species parasitic in the gall-bladders of fishes; Leptoiheca (Fig. 165), in- cluding several species from gall-bladders of fishes, but L. ranarum occurs in the kidneys of frogs {Bana spp.).