THE PROTOZOA 432 arranged in meridional rows running from tlie anterior to the posterior pole, and are of equal length in all parts of the body. An ideally-simple type of this kind is very nearly realized in some of the primitive forms, but as a rule is modified in various ways. In the fu'st place, the mouth does not remain anterior, but is shifted to the side of the body, as far as, or even farther tlian, half- way to the posterior pole (Fig. 181) ; consequently the rows of cilia become displaced from their primitively meridional arrange- ment, and tend to run obliquely round the body. Secondly, a differentiation is set up between the general coat of cilia clothing the body and locomotor in function, and special cilia near or around the mouth, which are usually much longer than the others, and modified in various ways in connection with the function of food- capture. The mouth itself becomes surrounded by a special area termed the "peristome," in which are found the special food-capturing cilia. In forms of creeping habit the form becomes stiU more modified. The body becomes flattened, and a ventral sur- face, turned towards the substratum and bearing the Fig. 181.—Diagram illustrating the shifting mouth and peristome, is of the mouth, and the consequent displace- distinguished from the Oppo- ment of the rows of cilia, in Ciliata, from a ., i i /• m form in which the mouth is at the anterior Site Or dorsal surface. Jiven pole and the rows of cilia run a meridional more marked are the adapta- Delage and Herouard. this mode of life (Fig. 182). The locomotor cilia become restricted to the ventral surface, and those on the dorsal side either tend to disappear altogether or persist with a purely tactile function. The cilia of the ventral surface tend to form tufts which fuse into cirri (p. 55), with which the animal creeps as if on legs. Sedentary forms may be attached temporarily by means of special cilia or adhesive organs, or more or less permanently by a portion of the body-surface on the side opposite to the mouth. In such forms (Fig. 183) the general coating of cilia may be retained, or may disappear entirely, only the peristomial cilia persistuig ; but locomotor cilia may be developed temporarily, enabhng the animal to become detached from one spot, and to swim away and attach itseH again elsewhere. In sedentary forms the point of attachment may be drawn out into a stalk, which may be of great length rela- tively, and may be a secreted structure or a portion of the body drawii out. In the second case the stalk may contain highly-per-