166 THE PROTOZOA Sporocysts are often simply rounded or oval bodies, like cysts, but in some cases they exhibit special foi-ms, and may be prolonged into spikes, tails, or processes of various kinds. In many cases the purely i)rotective uses of the cyst may be combined with the performance of some special function within it. The contained organism may remain merely in a resting state within the cyst (hypnocyst) ; or it may utilize its leisure for the digestion of large quantities of ingested food - material, or for carrying on i^rocesses of reproduction or syngamy. As a process of similar nature to encystment, the formation of " sclerotia " in the Mycetozoa must be noted (see p. 240, infra). Active adaptation to changed conditions is seen in those forms in which the mode of life is bound up with changes of environment during different periods of the-life-history—that is to say, more especially in parasitic forms, m which a change of hosts is necessary for the continuance of the species. In such forms there are in general two functions for which provision must be made : the first is that of multiplying in the host itself and keeping up a stock of the parasites in it; the second is that of infecting a new host sooner or later (see p. 20, supra). In the most primitive types of para- sitic Protozoa there is no differentiation of form or structure corre- sponding to these two distinct functions ; but as a general rule a given parasite in a given host exhibits usually two forms or series of forms, which may be termed " multiplicative " and " propagative " respectively (Doflein). Multiplicative forms may be wantmg in some cases, as in the Eugregarines, but propagative forms are always found, being an absolute necessity for the continuance of the species. As examples of multiplicative and propagative forms, we may consider first species which are parasitic only on a single host in the course of the entire life-cycle. A typical example is seen in Coccidium (p. 342, Fig. 152), in which adult forms, " schizonts," multiply rapidly in the host by a process of multiple fission, " schi- zogony," a process which takes place unaccompanied by any sexual phenomena, and in which no resistant cysts are formed, since they are quite unnecessary. Sooner or later, however, generations of individuals, " sporonts," appear which do not multiply like the schizonts, but which, as gametocytes, give rise to the gametes. After a process of syngamy the zygote forms a resistant cyst within to a developmental cycle ; the " spores " of Bacteria are for the most part simply cysts, but are called spores on account of their small size. ^In this book the word "spore," when not qualified by any prefix, will be used to denote a resistant seed-like body protected by a tough envelope or sporocyst, Ind the production or development of such bodies mil be termed spore-forma- tbn." On the other hand, the production of numerous small cells or germs by multiple fission will be termed " sporulation."