THE PROTOZOA 144 In Protozoa the chromosomes are seldom so sharply defined as in Metazoa, and consequently it is difficult or impossible to deter- mme their number. Many cases in which a fixed number of chromosomes is alleged to occur, as ui Trypanosoma noclum (Schau- dmn, 132), cannot be accepted without question in the present state of our knowledge. On the other hand, in all groups of the Protozoa, where the sexual processes have been carefully studied, the union of the gamete-nuclei has been found to be preceded in a great many cases by two successive divisions of each nucleus, with one or the other of the following results : either the successive formation of two reduction-nuclei,* which are cast out of the cell or absorbed without dividing fm-ther, while the third persists as the pronucleus of the gamete ; or the production of four nuclei, all of which, or only one of them, persist as pronuclei. These reducmg divisions in Protozoa suggest forcibly a comparison Avith those of the Metazoa, and from this analogy it may be further inferred that in Protozoa also the chromatin of the conjugating pronuclei has undergone a reduction to half the specific quantity ; but it is seldom possible to confirm this inference by accurate enumeration of the chromosomes. In the case which has been the most care- fully studied of all others, that, namely, of AdinosjJhoenum, Hertwig (64) found the number of chromosomes in the first reduction- spindle to be between 120 and 150 ; in the second reduction-spindle the number was about the same, but the chromosomes were about half the size of those in the first reduction-spindle. Moi'eover, in both the reducing divisions of Actinosphcerium the chromosomes in the equatorial plate divide to form the daughter-plates, as in ordinary karyokinesis, whereas in the reducing divisions of Metazoa the individual chromosomes are not diAdded, but merely sorted out. Hence it would appear that in Actinosphcerium, and probably many other Protozoa, the reduction of the chromatin in the pronuclei is effected by more dii'ect, though perhaps less exact, methods than in the highly-perfected process seen in the Metazoa. Nevertheless, a few cases are known among Protozoa in which the small number of chi-omosomes permits of their beitig accurately counted, and in which they are seen to be reduced to half the usual number in the maturation-divisions of the gametes. In Pelomyxa the first division reduces the chromosomes from eight to four ; the second division, however, is equating, and no fui-ther reduction takes place (p. 150). In some Infusoria it has been observed that * These reduction-nuclei are sometimes termed " polar bodies," by analogy with the maturative process of the Metazoan ovum, but the term is to be avoided in this connection, as it places upon these divisions an interpretation which is at least highly doubtful; the polar bodies of Metazoa are sister-cells of the ovum ; the reduction-bodies in Protozoa are simply nuclei which are extruded or absorbed. It is certainly not justifiable in fact, and probably no more so in theory, to rcgaixl their formation as abortive cell-division.