84 THE PROTOZOA In the first place, the flagellum or flagella may disappear, together with their blepharoplasts ; the nuclear centrosome divides into two, which control the division of the nucleus in the usual way, and the centrosome of each daughter-nucleus divides again into two, one of which is the definitive centrosome, the other the blepharo- plast, of the daughter-cell. The new flagella may either groAv out from the daughter-centrosomes before they divide, and be carried off, as it were, by the product of division which becomes the Fig. 41.—Stages in the division of Spongomonas sflendida, to show different ways in which the daughter-flagella arise. Compare the stages of 8. uvdla (Fig. 42). A, Resting condition of the cell. B, Early stage of mitosis; the two flagella of the parent cell are in process of absorption, together with their blepharo- plasts. G, Daughter-flagella arising at the poles of the nuclear spindle ; the flagella of the parent have disappeared. D, Nucleus completely divided ; one pair of daughter-flagella are seen arising from the karyosome of a daughter- nucleus, in which the blepharoplasts are still enclosed ; in the other daughter- nucleus the blepharoplasts have become distinct and the flagella are given off from them. E, Simflar stage ; the two pairs of blepharoplasts, from which the flagella arise, are quite independent of the two daughter-nuclei. After Hartmann and Chagas (62), magnification about 2,400 diameters. blepharoplast (Fig. 41, C, D, E ; Fig. 42, C), or they may not arise from the blepharoplasts until a later period, after they have separated off from the definitive centrosomes (Fig. 42, D, E, F). The examples figured show that these differences in the origm of the flagella may occur as developmental variations in one and the same species. In the second place, the blepharoplasts and flagella may persist throughout the division of the cell; then either the old flagellum and blepharoplast are retained by one daughter-cell, while the other