THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 121 The presence of more than one centriole in a nucleus has led Hartmann (60) to formulate the theory that such nuclei are to be regarded as " polyenergid " nuclei.* Hartmann proposes to dis- tinguish a nucleus with a single centriole as a " monokaryon " from a polyenergid nucleus or " polykaryon" containing many cen- trioles ; he interprets many cases, in which a nucleus appears to become resolved into chromidia from which secondary nuclei are formed, as being really a setting free of monokarya from a complex polykaryon—an interpretation which certainly gets over the diffi- culty of the formation of centrioles in second- ary nuclei (see further, p. 255, infra). In conclusion, men- tion must be made of the theory of cell-divi- sion and of the causes which bring it about, put forward by Hertwig (91, 92). This theory is based on the sup- ]Dosition, of which men- tion was made in the previous chapter (p. 70, supra) — that for the normal performance of Fig. 67.—Multijjle nuclear division in the male vital functions a cer- sporont of Aggregata jacquenieti. The nucleus, of . . which tlie outline has become irregular but is still tarn quantitative re- visible, is surrounded by eight centrioles, from lation must be main- each of which striations pass towards and into , • 1 1 J ,1 the nucleus. After Morolf (94), magnified 750 tamed between the linear. nuclear substance and the cytoplasm. As a standard for the proportion of nuclear mass and cytoplasm (" Kernplasma-Norm "), the individual im- mediately after fission may be taken. Exact measurements made on Infusoria show that, while the body grows continuously in size from one division to the next, the nucleus at first diminishes slightly * The conception of " energids " is due to Sachs, who coined the term to denote " a single cell-nucleus with the protoplasm governed by it, so that a nucleus and the protoplasm surrounding it are to be conceived of as a whole, and this whole is an organic unity, both in the morphological and the physiological sense." Hertwig (GG) has criticized this conception, and has shown its untenability in the case of Protozoa, which behave as single individuals whether they possess one nucleus or many. Hartmann, considermg the centriole as the criterion of in- dividuality rather than the nucleus, has revived the energid theory in the manner described above. It leads him to regard an ordinary Metazoan karyokinosis as the division of a polykaiyon, in which each separate chromosome represents a distmct nuclear element or monokaryon—a conclusion which appears to lead rather to a reductio ad ahaurdum of the theory.