THE PROTOZOA 306 divide up into trypanosomes of the ordinary type. Tliose who consider that sjaigamy can only occur in the invertebrate host will doubtless regard the process described by Ottolcnghi as phenbmena of agglomeration and de- generation. In the present state of our knowledge, however, it is best to keep an open mind on this question, and to await further investigations. In T. gamhiense, Moore and Broinl (484) have described a process of fusion between the kinctonucleus and trophonucleus in the formation of the " latent bodies," and have interpreted this as a sexual process, a suggestion hardly to be taken seriously. A similar process alleged to occur in the multiplication- forms of T. lewisi has been interpreted by Schilling as the inevitable autogamy. All that can be said at present, with regard to sexual processes in trypano- somes, is that, on the analogy of other Protozoa generally, syngamy may be expected to occur in some part of the life-cycle. It remains, however, for further research to establish definitely the conditions under which syngamy takes place, and the nature of the process in these organisms ; nor can it be considered as sound reasoning, in the absence of concrete observations, to at- tempt to limit the possible occurrence of syngamy, or to infer the exact form it takes, either by analogies more or less far-fetched with one or another group of Protozoa, or by the mere existence of form-differentiation, and still less by the arbitrary interpretation of certain forms as zygotes or ookinetes. A very variable feature in the development of trypanosomes is the sus- ceptibiUty of the invertebrate host. In the case of T. lewisi, only about 20 per cent., approximately, of the fleas fed experimentally on infected rats become infective in their turn, and m the case of tsetse-flies and pathogenic trypanosomes the percentage is much smaller. There are also grounds for suspecting that a certain condition or phase of the trypanosome in the blood of the vertebrate is sometimes necessary for establishmg the developmental cycle in the invertebrate ; compare the observations and conclusions of Chagas with regard to Schizotrypanum cruzi, mentioned above (p. 296). In Trypano- soma 7ioctuce the summer form which appears in the blood is of a type distinct from the winter forms found in the bone-marrow (Minchin and Woodcock, 42). On the other hand, in the case of the trypanosomes of fresh-water fishes, Robert- son (503) found that every leech became infected that was fed on an infected fish ; so that the simplest method of determming whether a fish was infected was to feed a newly-hatched Hemiclepsis on it. A question often discussed is whether trypanosomes in any part of their development may pass through " ultramicroscopic " stages. Schaudinn (132) expressed the opinion that some stages of trypanosomes investigated by him were small enough to pass through bacterial filters; though he did not put this suggestion to an experimental test, it is often quoted as a proved fact.* Moore and Breinl (484) also asserted, without ex|)erimental data, that infected blood remained infective after filtration. On the other hand, attempts by Bruce and Bateman to obtain experimental verification of these statements gave negative results (compare also Report XI., p. 122, of the Sleeping Sickness Commission). Recently it has been asserted by Fry that T. brucii can throw off granules wliich, when liberated, possess a certain motihty of their own in the blood ; this process is regarded as "essentially of a vital and not a degenerative nature." That a trypanosome or any other living cell might excrete grains which when set free could exlaibit movements due to molecular or other causes is higlily probable ; but that such grains represent a stage in the life- history of a trypanosome is far from being so ; nor can analogy with spiro- cha3tes be considered as a legitimate argument in favour of any such con- clusion. , , , 1 • 1 . There remains for consideration the development which trypanosomes undergo in artificial cultures, in which they exliibit a series of forms quite different from those seen in the blood of the vertebrate, and so far resembling the cycle in the invertebrate host in that the predominant phase is a critludial * It is doubtful whether the forms of which Schaudinn made this statement were really trypanosomes or spirochsetes.