POLYMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES 171 an inherent property of all living beings, as maintained by many high authorities. Whatever view be held with regard to the existence or non- existence of inherent, intrinsic sexual diiferences in living organisms, it seems clear that the apparent sexual differentiation of the gametes is largely, perhaps purely, adaptive, and furnishes good examples of the principle of morphological differentiation of structure in relation to physiological division of labour. One gamete, termed "female," tends to be bulky and inert, storing up reserve-material in greater or less quantity, a provision (sit venia verbo !) for future requirements ; it is economical of substance, and but few are produced. The other gamete, termed " male," develops in the opposite direction in every respect; it tends to be small and active, not weighted with superfluous material of any kind, but with motor mechanisms strongly developed ; it is prodigal of substance, and many are produced, but few are favoured by destiny. In extreme cases the female gamete is a relatively huge, inert cell, incapable of movement, crammed with foodstuffs ; the male is excessively minute, and is practically nothing but a nucleus which has its constituent parts packed into the smallest possible space, and with motor mechanisms attached to it. In reviewing the progressive differentiation of the gametes in Protozoa, it is convenient to treat separately those forms in which there is little or no ontogenetic differentiation from those in which there is a more or less pronounced difference between the young and adult forms. An example of the first type is seen in Copromonas (Fig. Ill), in which the gametes are ordinary individuals of the species, only differing in that their nuclei have undergone a process of reduction. Good examples of monomorphic forms are furnished also by the Infusoria, a group in which a species may be free-swim- ming, or may be more or less permanently attached and sessile in habit. In the free-swimming ciHate Infusoria, sexual differences in the conjugants are frequently not discernible ; if they exist, they can only be inferred from the fact that syngamy takes place, or from subsequent behaviour of the individuals after conjugation, as, for instance, the fact observed by Calkins, that in Paramecium one ex- conjugant multiplies much more rapidly than the other. In other cases differences of size more or less pronounced are exhibited by the conjugants (Doflein, 111). As pointed out above, differences of structure have also been noted in some cases between the stationary and migratory pronuclei produced by a conjugant Colhn (50), however, was unable to find the shghtest morphological diflerentiation of the conjugating pronuclei of Anoplophrya. In the sedentary Infusoria, sexual differentiation may be as little