THE PROTOZOA 164 Protozoa, however, there is no visible criterion of any similar state of maturity or the opposite which might bo a guide in estimating the significance of a particular form. It is certain that with in- creasing Imowledge many sj)ecies of Protozoa now regarded as distinct Avill prove to be developmental stages of others, as has happened so frequently in the case of Metazoa. The polymorphism of the Protozoa may be related directly or indirectly to a variety of causes, which may be grouped generally under three headings—life-conditions, growth and development of the individual, and sex. 1. Polymorphism in Relation to the Conditions of Life.—^Under this heading are mcluded all those cases where the individual is forced to adapt itself to inevitable changes in the environment, or else succumb to their effects ; hence this type of polymorphism may be termed briefly adaptive. The animal may adapt itself to such changes in one or the other of two ways : passively, by passing into a resting state, in which vital activities are temporarily sus- pended ; or actively, by changes of form, structure, and function, adapted to the changed conditions. Methods of passive adaptation to unfavourable conditions occur probably in all Protozoa—perhaps it might be said in all Protista, so that no species can be said to be absolutely monomorphic. The commonest form of such adaptation is the process of encystment, whereby the organism protects itself by secreting a firm, resistant envelope, or cyst, round its body. The first preliminary to encystment in Protozoa is usually a rounding off of the bodv-form. In the case of naked amoeboid forms such a change of form follows naturally, as pomted out above, from cessation of the locomotor activity. It is, however, also observed that a similar change takes place in corticate forms, a phenomenon which indicates that the cuticle or cortex must be absorbed or softened, and that any mternal form-givmg elements must be dissolved, so that the protoplasm is free to conform to the natural physical tendencies of a fluid body. In the great maiority of cases, an individual in process of encystment becomes perfectly spherical, whatever may have been the form of its body m the active state, but m some cases the spherical form ^ not fully attamed, and the body becomes ovoid or pear-shaped During tlie process of roundmg off, any food-particles or foreign bodies contamed hi the cytoplasm are rejected or absorbed, as a rule ; the contiactile vacuoles, if there be any, cease to be formed and vanish ; and all locomotor organs, such as cilia, fiagella, and of course pseudo- poZ are absorbed or cast off. At the same time the protoi^asm of the organism becomes less fluid and more opaque, aiid usually d minishes appreciably in bulk, probably through loss of watei , it