77 THE NUCLEUS (Reichenow, 78). As a general rule in the Protozoa, the plastin-sub- stance is found as the matrix of karyosomes, but also as that of other masses of chromatin, such as the cliromosomes of dividing nucleus (see next chapter). Goldschmidt (41) observed that the formation of generative chromidia in Maslirjdla (p. 265) was pre- ceded by the extrusion of plastin from the nucleus mto the cyto- plasm, to serve as a matrix for the chromatin which passed out from the nucleus subsequently. In AdinosvlKBrium, Hertwig has shown that a karyosome or chromatin-nucleolus, present during certain states or phases of nuclear activity, may give o£E its chro- matin-substance into the nuclear framework (reticulum), leaving the plastin-matrix as a body which is then seen to consist of a reticular framework similar in structure to the achromatinic reticulum of the nuclear framework, but distinguished from it by smaller meshes (alveoli) enclosed by thicker walls, as well as by its different staining properties. Certam phases of the development of Actinosphceriwn are further characterized by the formation in the nucleus of numerous small plastm-nucleoli, each consisting of a single vesicle (alveolus) of plastin containing nuclear sap. . Thus, a nucleus in its full complication of structure, and apart from the centrosomic elements, to be discussed presently, consists of the following parts : (1) An achromatinic framework or nuclear reticulum ; (2) a true membrane, formed from the achromatmic framework, and separating the nuclear contents from the surround- ing cytoplasm ; (3) nuclear sap, pervading the entire nuclear cavity ; (4) plastin, in the form of one or more bodies or masses which may consist either of pure plastin (nucleoli) or of plastm impregnated with chromatin (karyosomes) ; and (5) the chromatin, which may be present either in the form of granules lodged at the nodal points of the reticulum, and scattered evenly or unevenly throughout the nuclear framework, or may be concentrated in a karyosome, or may combine both these two modes of distribution in various ways. Achromatinic framework and nuclear sap may be considered as a part of the general body-protoplasm, enclosed within the nuclear space, and set apart from the cytoplasm as a special nucleoplasm; plastin, on the other hand, is probably to be regarded as a product derived from the chromatin itself, either as a secretion or as a modification of its substance, to form a cement-like material or matrix in which true chromatin is carried. The two primary con- stituents of a nucleus are chromatin and protoplasmic framework. Nuclei, whatever their structure, are, as a general rule, bodies of spherical or ovoid form ; but in some cases, especially amongst Infusoria, the nuclei exhibit very varied forms in different species. The nucleus may then be sausage-shaped, or in the form of a horse- shoe, or resemble a strmg of beads (" moniliform "), or be branched