455 THE INFUSORIA the body, leads into a short oesophagus. The nucleus is smgle, without a micronuclous. Sclicwiakolf makes Mawpasia the typo of a distinct order of the Oiliata—the Mastigotricha. Monomastix ciliaius (Fig. 189, A), described by Roux (862), and referred by him also to the Mastigotricha, has an oven coat of ciba all over the body, and possesses two macronucloi, near each of which is a micronuclous ; its most remarkable featiu-e is the possession of a long flagollum implanted at the anterior end of the body close to the mouth. Prom these various considerations, it seems highly probable that the Ciliata are descended from flagellate ancestors ; but it is not possible at present to indicate with any approach to exactness the line of descent. Subclass II.—Acinetabia (Suctoria, Tentaculifera). The Acinetaria are distinguished from the Ciliata by the posses- sion of the following characters in combination : The adult organism is of sedentary habit, and has no ciha, though the youngest stage in the life-history is typically a free-swimming ciliated organism ; there is no mouth, but both the capture and ingestion of food is effected by means of special organs peculiar to this subclass, and known as tentacles. An aciuetan may be attached to various objects, and is frequently epizoic. Some species attach themselves indifferently to a living or a lifeless object; others are constantly epizoic, and occur always attached to some particular animal, frequently to a particular organ of it. Very few species, however, are truly parasitic in the adult condition ; on the other liand, many species are parasitic in the early larval stages of their life-history, and frequently so within the bodies of Ciliata (Fig. 192). The marine genus Ophryodendron, however, is a true ectoparasite of liydroids, accordmg to Martin, and contains nematocysts derived from its hosts. In this case the parasitism is correlated with a peculiar dimorphism of " proboscidi- form " and " vermiform " individuals, the former possessing a tuft of tentacles on a proboscis-like process, the latter being without tentacles altogether. The vermiform individuals are budded from the proboscidiform, and either form can produce ciliated buds, which develop into proboscidiform individuals agam; but the vermiform type does not grow into the proboscidiform. In Den- drosomides paguri, however, Collin (881) finds that similar vermi- form individuals become transformed into the tentacle-bearing form. In Bhabdophrya trimorpha, ectozoic on a Copepod {Gletodes longicaudatus), there are three forms of individuals—namely, in addition to tentaculated and vermiform specimens, peculiar " unci- form " individuals, which are also Avithout tentacles (Chatton and Colhn, 876). The form of the body varies greatly, but may be said to be typically vase-like, with or without a stalk or peduncle. In sessile forms the body is attached by a broad base to the substratum. In