THE INFUSORIA 443 myonemes, or just external to tliis level, below the alveolar layer (Fig. 186, B, D); the cilium passes outwards in the edges of the alveoli—that is to say, along the lines in which the walls of contiguous alveoli touch at their corners— and pierces the pellicle to pass to the exterior. In AnoplopJirya, Collin (50) describes root-like fibrils which pass inwards through the endoplasm, and are inserted on the membrane of the macronucleus. Kliainsky (170-5) also describes fibrils passing inwards from the basal granules of the ciha of Para- mecium. In the remarkable form Pycnothrix monocysioides, which possesses an ectoplasm of great thickness and distinctness, there are, accordmg to Schubotz (868), two layers of basal granules, one more superficial, the other deeper. Each granule of the outer layer gives off a ciUum on its outer side, and on its inner side a fibril connecting it to a granule of the deeper layer, from which, again, a fibril passes inwards and becomes directly continuous with a myoneme. The free cihum shows, accordmg to Schuberg (44), a distal " end-piece," which stains more lightly and is of finer calibre, and a basal, thicker, and darkly-staining portion (Fig. 186, A); the basal portion is of even thickness, and is about double the length of the distal end-piece, which tapers to a fine point. Motile ciha are not stiff, but change their form by bending in a heli- coid spiral, or in a portion of such a spiral, like the flagella of the Flagellata and of spermatozoa. Cast-off cilia often coil up at their proximal end into a fine loop. A cilium is composed of two different parts—an elastic axial filament of firm consistence covered by a sheath of more fluid contractile substance. According to KJhainsky (170'5), the sheath of the eifimn is in continuity with the substance of the pellicle. The end-piece represents the axis exposed and continued beyond the sheath. The axis is compared by Schuberg to that of the axopodia (p. 48), and is the form-determining element for the fluid sheath. Cilia perform active movements even when separated from their basal granules, which are not to be regarded, in Scliuberg's opmion, as kinetic centres; the movements caused by the fluid envelope are probably due to alterations in surface-tension (p. 200, supra). The basal granules of the cilia are not regarded by Maier or Schuberg as centrosomic in nature. Maier considers that they probably arise as cytoplasmic • bodies at the surface of the cell, and are to be interpreted as special thicken- ings at the roots of the cilia ; lOiainsky (170-5) takes a similar view. In this connection, however, attention should be drawn to the observations of Entz (53), who finds that in the division of Tintinnidce the new peristome arises in the interior of the cytoplasmic body as a spht or cavity, and that the basal granules appear first, the pectineUse later; the basal granules are stated to be formed in connection with the nuclear apparatus, and their substance to be formed either from the macronucleus or micronucleus. The connection between the basal granules and the macronucleus described by Collin (50) would seem also to indicate a nuclear origin for them. The question of their centrosomic nature must remain, therefore, open for the present. Accordmg to Schuberg, the basal granules of each row of cilia are connected with one another by a fine longitudinal fibril. The typical motile cilia described above become modified in various ways, chiefly by fusion of separate ciha to form more complex structures. The stiff, tactile bristles have precisely the same structure and mode of insertion as the ordinary cilia (Fig. 186, H, t.c), and in this case the change IS purely one of function or substance rather than of perceptible eji^ological structure. The undulating membranes found in the pharynx of the Hymeno- stomata are formed by fusion or adhesion of a single row of ciha, of which the basal granules are ranged in a series to form a " basal rim " (Basalsamn) from which the membrane takes origin (Fig. 186, E, u.m.). According to bchuberg, the fibrils of which the membranes, membranellEe, etc., are made up correspond, not to a whole cihum, but to its axial portion alone. Some- times, however, more than one row of cilia contribute to the formation of an undulating membrane; the two membranes which compose the adoral