THE SARCODINA 239 closed actually within the system of tubes. Nothing similar to the l.nelljB is Imown in any Foraminifera. For the classification of the Xenophyophora and their genera see Schulze (290). IV. Mycetozoa. The Mycetozoa are a group of semi-terrestrial Rhizopods occur- ring in various situations, especially on dead wood or decaying vegetable matter of various kinds. Their most characteristic features are the formation of plasmodia, which represent the adult, vegetative phase of the life-history, and their method of repro- duction, consisting in the formation of resistant spores very similar to those of fungi. The Mycetozoa were originally classified amongst the Fungi as a group under the name Myxomycetes, but the in- vestigations of de Bary first made clear their Rhizopod affinities. The life-history of a typical member of this group exhibits a succession of phases, the description of which may conveniently begin with the spore. Each spore is a spherical cell with a single nucleus, enclosed in a tough protective envelope which enables it to resist desiccation. It may be dormant for a considerable period, and germinates when placed in water. The envelope bursts, and the contained cell creeps out as an amoebula with a single nucleus (Fig. 97), the so-called " myxamceba." After a time the amoebula develops a flagellum, and becomes a flagellula or zoospore (" myxoflagellate"), which feeds and multipUes by fission. The flagellula (Fig. 98) retains its amoeboid form, and sometimes also the amoeboid method of locomotion, the flageUum appearing to act as a tactile organ. It captures bacteria and other organisms by means of its pseudopodia, nourishing itself m a holozoic, perhaps also in a saprophytic, manner. It also may become temporarily encysted. The flageUate phase is succeeded by a second amoeboid stage, the flagellum being lost. The amoebulae of this stage tend to con- gregate together in certain spots, and the groups thus formed fuse together (their nuclei, however, remaining separate) to form the plasmodmm, the dominant vegetative stage, which feeds and grows Its nuclei multiplying as it does so, until from the small mass of protoplasm formed originally by the amoebulse, with relatively few nuclei, It becomes a sheet or network of protoplasm, which may Fig. 97.--The hatching of a spore of Ftdigo septica. a, Spore; b, c, contents emerging and under- going amoeboid movements prior to the assumption of the flagel- lula-stage; d, flagellula. c.v., Contractile vacuole. After Lister, magnified 1,100.