THE PROTOZOA 314 The distinctive structural features of this genus are the possession of a single flageUum, arising from close beside a kinetonucleus which is placed far forwards in the body, and the entire absence of an undulating membrane (Fig. 136, B ; Fig. 137, d). As already stated above, however, the application of the names Leptomonas and Herpetomonas is much disputed, and the morphological defini- tion of the genera in question is attended with considerable diffi- culties, chiefly owing to the fact that in one and the same host a great variety of forms may occur, with regard to which it is not possible, in the present condition of knowledge, to state with cer- tainty whether they represent distinct species of flagellates, refer- able even to distinct genera, occurring fortuitously in the same host, or whether they are all merely developmental phases of the same species. The following are the principal forms Avhich may Fig. 136.—Leptomonas jacidum, Leger, from the intestine of Nepa cinerea. A, B, Monad forms ; 0, division of a monad form ; D, monad form with short flageUum ; E, F, G, gregarine-like forms: E, in division, F, attached to an epithelial cell by the rudimentary flagella, which resemble the rostra of gre- garine sporozoitcs. After Leger." occur together in the same host: (1) Large, biflagellate individuals (Fig. 124, A), often with a distinct pair of rhizoplasts connected with the two flagella, the type to which, according to one set of opinions, the name Herpetomonas should be restricted, but which on another view represents merely an early stage in binary fission, with a daughter-flageUum precociously formed ; (2) smaller flagel- lates with a single flageUum (Fig. 136, B ; Fig. 137, d), the type for which the name Leptomonas is employed by those Avho regard the true Herpetomonas as typically biflagellate, while by those who hold the contrary view the two genera are ranked as synonjnns ; (3) cri- thidialforms (Fig. 137, g) ; (4) trypaniformflagellates (Fig. 137, j, h), with the kinetonucleus at the posterior end, and the flageUum running the whole length of the body with a more or less distinct undulating membrane—the " leptotrypanosomes " of Chatton. In