THE SARCODINA 221 and produce within the cyst a number of gametes in the same manner as the agametes already described, but with the following differ- ences of detail: the principal nucleus degenerates as soon as the chromidia are formed ; the number of secondary nuclei produced is much larger, and the gametes are much smaller than the agametes ; and the cytoplasm of the parent is entirely used up in their forma- tion. The gametes are ultimately set free from the cyst as amoe- bulse, and pair ; the zygote grows into the adult form of the amoeba. Such a cycle has recently been described by Popoff (264) for a species named by him Amoeba minuta ; the gametes in this species are isogametes, without any sexual differentiation as in Arcella. This type of life-cycle is probably very common in many amoebae, Fia. 87.—AmcBba albida: autogamy in the encysted condition ; drawn in outline, with nuclear details only. A, Encysted amoeba ; B, the nucleus of the amoeba divides unequally into a larger vegetative and a smaller generative nucleus ; the vegetative nucleus, as seen in the subsequent figures, travels to the surface of the cyst, degenerates, and disappears ; the generative nucleus gives rise to the gamete-nuclei; C, incomplete division of the generative nucleus; p, one half of the generative nucleus is budding off two reduction-nuclei (on the right); E, four reduction-nuclei have been budded off, two from each pole of the incompletely divided generative nucleus ; F, the reduced generative nucleus completes its division; the four reduction-nuclei are degenerating; G*, the two pronuclei far apart; H. the two pronuclei coming together ;/, the pronuclei fusing. After Nagler (95). with specific differences of detail in different cases, of which the most important are, that in some cases, probably, the nucleus divides to form the gamete-nuclei, instead of becoming resolved mto chromidia, and that autogamy within the cyst may occur instead of free gametes being formed, as A. albida (Fig. 87)' According to Nagler (95), autogamy of this type is characteristic ot ail amoebae of the Umax-gvoni^ ; in such cases only two gamete- nuclei are formed in the cyst, which after going through reducing divisions fuse to form a synkaryon. The zygote then leaves the cyst and begins a fresh vegetative cycle. A different type of life-cycle is exemplified by that which Schepo- tieff has described in the case of a marine amoeba identified by him as A. flava. In this case also the ordinary vegetative form is a