78 THE PROTOZOA radians a colony is formed by budding, which resembles super- hcia ly a hydroid colony, each hydranth being represented by the licad of an Acmetan mdividual with suctorial tentacles- the branched nucleus is continuous tlu-oughout the whole colony,'pass- ing unmterruptedly from one mdividual to another. Typically the cell-body contams a single nucleus, but in many Protozoa two or more nuclei occur constantly. When there are more nuclei than one, they may be all alike and quite undifferentiated, or they may show difEerences in size, structure, and function. In many Sarcodina multiple nuclei without differentiation are found to occur constantly in certam species ; for mstance, two in Amoeba hinucleata and Arcella; several, perhaps a dozen or so, in Difjiugia (Fig. 16) ; from twenty to forty up to some five hundred m ActinosphcBrium (Fig. 3); so also m Pelomyxa; and in the large plasmodia of Mycetozoa many thousands of nuclei are found. Differentiation of nuclei, when it occm-s, may be related to various causes. In trypano- Tnjixmo- somes and allied forms two nuclei occur con- stantly—a prmcipal nucleus, or trojjJionucleus, so called because it appears to regulate the general metabolism and trophic activities of the cell-body; and a kineionucleus, which is m special relation tq the organs of movement, flagella, and undulatuig membrane. As a rule the kinetonucleus is smaller, in some cases very minute, and has a dense compact structure, while the tro]phonucleus has a vesicular struc- ture ; but in other cases {Trypanoplasma) the kinetonucleus is the larger of the two (Fig. 36). A nuclear differentiation of totally opposite character is seen in the Infusoria, where two nuclei of different sizes, hence termed " macronucleus " and " micronucleus," are constantly present; the behaviour of these two nuclei m relation to sexual phenomena and reproduction {vide p. 153, infra) shows that the macronucleus is composed of vegetative cliromatm, while the micronucleus contains the reserve generative chromatm. In some cases—for example, m Myxosporidia (p. 403)—nuclei of different sizes occur in relation to sexual differences. In some Protozoa—the so-called " Monera " of Haeckel—the nucleus has been stated to be wantmg entirely ; but this statement Fig. 36. plasma (jurneyorum from the blood of the pike {Esox lucius). a.fl., Anterior flagel- lum; n, kinetonu- cleus ; N, trophonu- cleus; ■p.fl., posterior flagellum f ormingthe edge of the undula- ting membrane, and continued beyond it as a very short free flagellum posteriorly. After Minchin (478), X 2,000.