325 THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDTA daughter-individuals, products of schizogony, are termed mero- zoifes, to distinguish tliom from sporozoitcs which tlioy may resemble closely. Sooner or later, however, the propagativc phase, destined to infect new hosts, makes its appearance ; so-called sporonts (see p. 330, infra) multiply by sporogony, which is combined with sexual phases, to produce the sporozoites. The life-cycle of the parasite may be passed entirely in one host, or there may be an alternation of hosts of different species, with a distinct series of phases of the parasite in each. When there is but a single species of host, the method of infection of new hosts is usually contamina- tive (p. 24), by means of resistant spores and cysts ; when there is an alternation of hosts, the infection may be inoculative (p. 23), without resistant phases, as in malarial parasites, or contamina- tive, with resistant phases, as in Aggregatci (p. 353), Wliether the life-cycle be of simple or complex type, it ends with the production of sporozoites, bringing it back to the starting- point again ; and in the vast majority of cases the sporozoites are enclosed, one or more together, in tough sporocysts to form the characteristic resistant spores. As a rule each spore arises from a single spore-mother-cell or sporoblast. The Sporozoa fall naturally into two subclasses, which have received various names, according as one or another of their char- acteristic features has been considered diagnostic. It is best to define each subclass by a number of characteristics, since none by itself is sufficiently distinctive. In the first subclass the trophic and reproductive phases are typically distinct—that is to say, the animal becomes full-grown, and ceases to groAV further, before reproduction begins, hence Telosporidia (Schaudinn) ; reproduction takes place usually by a process of multiple fission in which the daughter-individuals are budded or split off on the outer surface of the parent-body, hence Ectosporea (Metchnikofi) ; and the germs or sporozoites produced are gregarinulse, hence Rhabdogenise (Delage and Herouard). In the second subclass the trophic and reproductive phases usually overlap—that is to say, the stiU-growing or even quite young trophozoite may begin to form spores, hence Neosporidia (Schaudinn) ; the spore-mother-cells are formed by a process of internal gemmation, being cut off within the cytoplasm of the parent, hence Endosporea (Metchnikoff) ; and the sporozoites produced are amoebulae, hence Amoebogenise (Delage and Herouard). Of the three contrasted characters by which the two subclasses arc distinguished, the most absolutely diagnostic is probably the form of the sporozoite. The names Telosporidia and Neosporidia