THE PROTOZOA 140 (p. 407) and allied organisms, whoro it is far from certain that the two nuclei or colls, from which ultimately the pronuclei or gametes arise, have a common parentage. Autogamy has recently become very fashionable, and there is a tendency to regard as such, not only many cases which are probably truly hoterogamous, but also nuclear fusions or appositions which are not in any way sexual {e.g.. Schilling, 134). The essential point to consider, in cases of autogamy, is whether there is a union of cliromatin derived from distinct s,txa,im—am'pUmixis—ov from a common parentage—autom.i.ris. Thus, it has been pointed out above that in gregarines two gametocytos may associate, and even fuse into one body, but witli the nuclei remaining distinct (Fig. 71, B). When gamete-formation takes place in a " neogamous " species of this type, the gametes of one sex derive their pronuclei from one gamotocyte-nuclous, those of the opposite sex from the other, with subsequent syngamy of a truly heterogamous typo. If the fusion of the gametocytos were to go farther, a plastogamic, non-sexual union of the two nuclei might result, producing a single nucleus containing chromatin from two distinct sources ; in that case, when gamoto-formation took place, the syngamy would be, to all intents and purposes, a typical case of autogamy, and would certamly be so described if it were not Icno-mi that the single gametocyte-nucleus had arisen by fusion of two distmct nuclei. If, however, in each couple of copulatmg gametes, one pronucleus contained chromatin derived from one of the two original gametocyto-nucloi, the other pronucleus, similarly, chromatin derived from the other nucleus, the result would bo a true amphimixis, just as in ordinary heterogamy. In Actinosphceriuin, plastogamic fusions of the ordinary vegetative, multi- nucleate individuals are stated to be of common occurrence ; it is therefore possible that an individual which encysts may contain frequently nuclei from distinct sources. According to Brauer, fusion of nuclei takes place in the mother-cyst to form the nuclei of the primary cyst. There is therefore at least a possibility that the autogamy of Actinosphcerium may be, in some cases, combined with amphimixis. In other cases, however, such as Entamaiba coli and Amoeba albida (Fig. 87), thoro seems little reason to doubt that the autogamy is a true aiitomixis. Analogous cases of seLE-fertilization are well know in flowering plants, where they are sometimes the rulo, sometimes an alternative to cross-fertilization. In free-living Ciliata, also, sjmgamy has been observed between cousins, the descendants of an ex-conjugant after but four divisions (Jennings, 121), which is not far removed from automictic autogamy. The conclusion j)ut forward above, on experimental grounds, that syngamy has a strengthening or invigoratmg effect on the cell-organism, receives further support from the many instances in which it is observed to occur as a preliminary to the ]oroduction of resistant stages destuaed to endure unfavourable conditions of life. Thus, in free-living Protozoa syngamy occurs commonly in the autumn, previously to the assumption of a resting condition in which the organisms pass through the winter. In Difflugia, for instance, syngamy in the autumn is followed by encystment, and the cysts remaui dormant until the sprmg. This is strictly comparable to the state of things known in many Metazoa, such as Rotifers, Daphnids, etc., where in the summer soft-shelled eggs are produced which develop parthenogenetically, but in the autumn hard-shelled winter-eggs are produced which require fertilization. In parasitic forms, such as Coccidia and Gregarines, syngamy is related to the formation of resistant cysts which pass out of the host