277 THE MASTIGOPHORA The transverse flagellum executes undulating movements whi(!ti were formerly mistaken for those of a ring of ciUa ; hence the name Cilioflagellata formerly appHed to this group. The cuirass, composed of callulose or an aUied substance, is in its typical form a perfectly rigid structure, and is often prohnged into spikes and processes which cause the body as a whole to assume strange or even monstrous forms (Fig. 121). Detailed studies on the skeleton have been published by Kofoid in a series of memoirs (374-383). The nutrition is for the most part holophytic, but in some species ingestion of solid food has been observed. A great many parasitic forms have been made known of recent years (Chatton, 366-369 ; Caullery, 364) ; these are for the most part forms which, in the vegetative, parasitic phase are inert bodies with no sign of locomotor organs, often fixed and pedunculate when ecto- parasitic ; but in their reproductive phases they betray their afi&nities by the formation of numerous flagellated swarm-spores exhibiting the typical DinoflageUate structure. The pelagic species generally possess chroma- tophores, and frequently a red stigma, which in some geneva—Pouchetia (Fig. 31), Erythropsis~is modified into an eye-like organ. The deep-sea forms, on the other hand, are colourless. In many Dinoflagellates a peculiar system of vacuoles is found (Fig. 122), consisting of two sacs containing watery fluid, each of which empties itself to the exterior by its own duct. They differ from ordinary contractile vacuoles in possessing a dis- tinct envelope and in not performing rhythmical contractions, and have hence been given the special name of " pusules'' (Schiitt). One of these organs, termed the " collecting-pusule." consists of a reservoir-vacuole surrounded by a ring of smaller vacuoles which empty themselves into it; the other, termed the " sack-pusule," is a large cavity which takes up a great part of the interior of the cuirass. The function of these organs is probably hydrostatic. The commonest method of reproduction is bmary fission in the transverse plane of the body, in which each daughter-individual receives a half of the cuirass of the parent and regenerates the half that is wanting. Fission rapidly repeated may li.- 1 r. . lead to the formation of chains of indi-dduals. In f orma fon n^ ''^^' fission within the cuirass has been observed, leading to the tne sexual processes of these organisms. The Dinoflagellates are an exceedingly abundant and widespread group, Fig. 120. — Olenodi- nium cinctum, Ehrenberg. a, Amyloid granules ; b, stigma ; c, chro- matophores; d, flagellum of the transverse groove ; e, flagellum of the vertical groove ; v., vacuole. From Lankester. Fig. m.—Ceralocorys horrida: cuirass. After Stein, from Lankester.