THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA 343 take more extensive migrations, and find their way into some other organ of the body, of which they are specific parasites, such as the liver, fat-body of insects, genital organs, Iddneys, and so forth. When they have reached the cell, of whatever tissue it may be, which is their destination, they penetrate as a rule into the cyto- plasm, and come to rest there, but in some cases they are intra- nuclear parasites. The trophozoite grows slowly at the expense of the host-cell, which is at first greatly hypertrophied as a rule, but is ultunately destroyed ; and when full-sized the parasite enters upon the multiplicative phase as a schizont. After several generations of schizogony, a generation of trophozoites is produced ultimately, which become sexually - differentiated sporonts and proceed to sporogony. The great power of endogenous multiplication possessed by these parasites renders them often pathogenic, or even lethal, to their hosts, in contrast to the usually quite harmless gregarines. As a rule, however, the production of a pathological condition in the host reacts on the parasite, and stimulates, apparently, the development of propagative phases, which, by passing out of the host, purge it of the infection. In this way the disease—" coccidiosis," as it is termed generally—may cure itseK, and the host recuperates its health, but without acquirhig immunity agauast remfection. As a typical coccidian life-cycle may be taken that of Goccidium schubergi (Eig. 152), from the common centipede, Lithdbius forficaius, described by Schaudinn (99) in a classical memoir. The complete life-history may be divided into eight phases, which are described Fig. 52 continued : trating the cell; the other two cells contain parasites (p.) in different stages of growth (schizonts): n., nucleus of the host-cell; G, D, multiplication of the nuclei of the full-grown schizont; E, the schizont has divided into a number of merozoites (mz.) implanted on a mass of residual proto- plasm ; the merozoites, when set free, may either penetrate into epithelial cells and become schizonts again, as indicated by the long arrow, or may develop into sporonts (gametocytes); F, epithelial cell containing two yo\mg sporonts, the one male (S ), with fine granules, the other female (? ), with coarse plastinoid granules in its cytoplasm : GS, full-grown male sporont ; G ? , full-grown female sporont: h, its karyosome: H S , male sporont with nuclei divided up ; the remains of the karyosome are seen at the centre of the body ; H ? , female sporont which has expelled the karyosome : h?, fragments of the karyosome in the host-cell; IS, ripe male gametes round the residual mass of the body of the sporont; J ? , female gamete ripe for fertilization, throwing out on one side a cone of reception towards the male gametes (S ) swarming round it; J, fertilized zygote which has surrounded itself by an oocyst (ooc.) • msido the body the female pronucleus (?) has taken the form of a spindle, at one pole of which is seen the chromatin of the male pronucleus {S^); outside the oocyst is seen a clump of degenerating male gametes {S^);K the fertihzation-spindle complete, with male and female chromatin spread over it; synkaryon dividing ; M, the synkaiyon has divided into four ; N four sporoblasts arc formed, each of which has surrounded itself with a sporocyst lying in a mass of residual protoplasm (cystal residuum); 0, ripe oocyst containing four spores, each enclosing two sporozoites and a small quantity ot residual protoplasm (sporal residuum). After Schaudinn (99).