SYNGAMY AND 8EX IN THE PROTOZOA 129 reached the organism tends to reproduce itself. In Protista, as described in the last chapter, two principal types of rejiroduction occur—namely, simple or multiple fission. In either case the organism grows to its full specific size, and then divides into smaller individuals ; the greater the number of daughter-individuals pro- duced at each act of reproduction, the more minute those daughter- individuals. Following the act of reproduction comes a period of growth, during which the small forms grow up into full-sized individuals which reproduce themselves in their turn. Thus the life-history of a Protist may be described as an alterna- tion of periods of growth and periods of reproduction. If, how- ever, the life-history consists of only these two events in alternating succession, it is an infinite series, not a cycle ; contuauous, not recurrent. Possibly such a condition, varied only by states of repose interrupting the vital activity of the organism, is found in Bacteria and allied forms of life, where true syngamy apparently does not occur. But it is probable that in all Protozoa, as in all Metazoa and plants, the life-liistory is a recurrent cycle, of which an act of sjmgamy may be taken as the starting-point; this point will now be discussed. 2. The Occurrence of Syngamy in the Series of Living Beings.— With regard to this question, there are two possibilities ; first, that syngamy and sexuality constitute a fundamental vital phenomenon, common to all livmg things ; secondly, that it is an acquisition at some period or stage in the evolution of organisms, and not a primary characteristic of livmg beings. The sex-philosopher Weminger* has argued in favour of the first of these hypotheses, and goes so far as to regard all protoplasm as consisting primarily either of arrhenoplasm (male) or thelyplasm (female), standmg in fundamental antithesis to one another, and combmed in varying proportions in a given cell or sample of the living substance. A view essentially similar has been put forward by Schaudinn, and IS discussed below. It is beyond question that sexuality is a universal attribute of all hvmg bemgs above the rank of the Protista, whether animals or plants. In Protista, however, syngamy has not been observed to occur with certainty in the Bacteria and organisms of a similar type of organization. It is true that certain rearrangements of tHe chromatm, observed in some larger organisms of the bacterial type at certain phases of their life-history, have been compared to sexual processes, but such an interpretation is, to say the least, iHghly doubtful. In Protozoa, syngamy has been observed to occur m a vast number of forms, but by no means in all. In the Weiningcr, 0., " Sex and Character," chapter ii. London : W. Heinemann, 0