188 THE PROTOZOA (a) Holophytic Nutrition.—^The characteristic of this type of nutrition is that the organism contains rpecial pigments by means of which it is able to decompose COg in the sunlight, setting free the oxygen and retaining the carbon^ which is built up in union with other elements derived from water and mineral inorganic salts. The pigments, termed comprehensively chromophyll, are contained in bodies termed " chromatophores," which occur in diverse forms and varying numbers in different species, and which multiply hy division when the cell divides. The chromophyU-pigments are of various tints — yellow, brown, green, blue-green, etc.—but the commonest tint is the green chlorophyll, similar to that character- istic of plant-cells. A blood-red pigment, termed hcematochrome, occurs in some flagellates—e.g., Hcematococcus ; it appears to be a modification of chlorophyll produced under certain conditions (see Reichenow, 97'5). For the details of the complicated process of the synthesis of chemical substances in the holophytic mode of nutrition, the student is referred to botanical textbooks dealing with plant-physiology. There appears to be no essential difference between the assimilative processes of holophytic Protozoa and of ordinary plant-cells. A characteristic product of holophytic nutrition is seen in the forma- tion of amyloid substances, the most important of which are starch (amylum), and an aUied substance known as " paramylum," which differs from starch in some of its reactions, notably in that it is not coloured blue with iodine. Paramylum is of more frequent occur- rence in Protozoa than true starch. The amyloid substances occur in characteristic masses in the cytoplasm (see especially Biitschli, 153). The chromatophores of Protozoa contain usually small refringent bodies termed yyrenoids, which also multiply by division. The pyrenoids are often surrounded by a coat or envelope of paramylum, and appear to be the centres of the production of amyloid substance. Many flagellates with green chromatophores combine holophytic with saprophytic nutrition. Examples of such " mixotrophic " forms are seen in the genus Euglena (Zumstein, 223), the species of which flourish best m a medium containing organic substances, and cannot maintain themse ves in pure water. Euglena viridis was shown by Khawkine to be able to nve for a considerable period in the dark in media containing organic substances, but did not lose its green colour and did not multiply. E. gracilis, on the other hand, in Zumstein's experiments, lost its green colour and passed mto TistaM. phase in the da^rk, or even in the light when placed ui so utions very rich in organic substances, nourishing itself as a saprophyte. When the Astasia-iov^n was exposed to the light, in solutions ^^f "J^g ^^^y^S- of organic matter, it became green agam and passed back 'J'^^J^'T.^'^^^ T>hase The degree to which the species of Euglena can adapt themselves to a purely saprophytic life would appear to vary in different cases. In the ^oloudess JEorms thJ chromatophores lose their chlorophyU, and remam as ^tl^'c^mrnltf of holozoic and holophytic nutrition has been noted above (p. 15).