THE NEOSPORIDIA 423 and from which an amoebula is liberated, as in other Neosporidia (Amoebogenife). . p . r -i • j Order V. : Haplosporidia.—The distnictive features of this order are for the most part of negative character, and, as the name im- plies the tendency is towards simplicity in structure and develop- ment. The spores are without the polar capsules which are so marked a peculiarity in the four previous orders, and have the form of simple cells, each with a single nucleus, and with or without a sporocyst, which, however, when present, is not formed by distmct parietal cells. In organisms of such simple structure, the absence of distinctive pecuUarities renders the limits of the group indefinite, and the affinities of its members vague and undecided, and it is possible that the order Haplosporidia, as generally understood, is a hetero- geneous assemblage, many members of which present only develop- mental analogies to the true Neosporidia—that is to say, a simi- larity in the life-history which is an adaptation to a similar mode of life, and not a true indication of genetic affinity. Leger and Duboscq (646) point out that the characters—" peu limitatifs "— of the Haplosporidia would suit Protista" of the most diverse affini- ties, and scarcely mark them off from yeasts or Chytridineae. With the exception of the family Haplosporidiidce, they regard the group Haplosporidia as purely provisional, and comprising heterogeneous forms with undecided affinities. The life-cycle of a typical Haplosporidian parasite is very simple. The initial phase is an amoebula or planont, which multiplies by fission, division of the nucleus being followed by division of the body to form two planonts, which may contmue to divide for many generations. From a planont arises ultimately a plasmodial phase, the result of divisions of the nucleus without corresponding divisions of the body, which grows to a relatively large size. The plasmodium is the principal trophic phase. It may multiply by plasmotomy or by schizogony, or may proceed to spore-formation, and then it -divides into as many cells as there are nuclei. The cells formed in this way are either sporoblasts, each of which becomes a single spore (Oligosporulea), or they represent sporonts (" pansporo- blasts "), which give rise each to a cluster of spores (Polysporulea). The spores are usually simple rounded bodies invested by a more or less distinct protective membrane, which in rare instances becomes a definite sporocyst prolonged even into tails or spikes. The Haplosporidia were divided by Caullery and Mesnil (802) into three families. In order to include forms more recently dis- covered, Ridewood and Fantham have extended the classification, and recognize two suborders :