THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA 355 lb follows, from the course of evolution sketched in the foregoing paragraphs, that ill both gregarines and coccidia the cyst is to be regarded as a secondary acquisition. In the ancestral form there were simply scattered zygotes from which the spore with its contained sporozoites arose ; the spore may, in fact, be regarded as representing tho primary form of the encysted parasite, comparable to an encysted zygote of the Flagellata. It is indeed obvious that the cyst of gregarines and coccidia respectively are quite difl'erent things. In gregarines the cyst is formed round the two associated gameto- cytes—it is a " copularium," asLeger has termed it; in coccidia the cyst is a protective membrane formed round the zygote, immediately after fertiliza- tion. In the genus Legerella among coccidia, however, the cyst is the sole protective membrane formed to enclose the sporozoites, no sporocysts being produced, a condition which is of interest, since it leads on to that found in the Hsemosporidia. In both coccidia and gregarines secondary departures from the primary t;^-pe of the hfe-cycle occur. In coccidia the gametocytes of certain forms (Adeleidce) have acquired the habit of association prior to gamete-formation ; this has not led, however, to a development in the direction of isogamy, as in gregarines, but merely to a reduction in the number of male gametes formed. In some gregarmes, on the other hand, notably in those forms of " ccelomic " habitat, or parasitic in the hsemoccele, the sporonts in the later stages of growth are inert and motionless; this condition has led to neogamous association of yoimg sporonts while still motile and capable of coming together proprio motu. Here mention must be made of the remarkable form iSchaudinnetta de- scribed by Nusbaum (624), parasitic in the gut of an oligochajte worm. The full-grown trophozoites of SchaudinneUa are gregarine-like, and may be either free m the lumen of the gut or attached to the epithelium by an epimerite ; the body is non-septate. Temporary associations (syzygies) may be formed which have nothmg to do with sexual conjugation, since the associates part again and produce gametes separately and independently. The full-grown sporonts are distmguishable as male and female forms. The female sporonts divide up mto eight or ten spherical cells, tho macrogametes. The male sporonts divide up mto a great number of minute spindle-shaped elements the microgametes Copulation takes place between a microgamete and a macrogamete. The zygote may become encysted and cast out with the laeces, or may penetrate into the waU of the intestine. In the first manner mfection of new hosts is brought about; in the second, multiphcation of the parasite m the same host. The zygotes in the wall of the intestine grow in size, and divide each mto a number of sporozoites. s uw m Some doubt may be felt as to whether the life-history of SchaudinneUa ha^ been mterpreted correctly throughout; it is unusual for eXenous^ m^^^^^^ plication to be preceded by sexual processes, and the developSer?eZres further examination If, however, the account of the gamete?oTmat'on be correct, Schaudznndla is a form which in this respect stinds verTSar to tte hypothetical ancestral form of gregarmes and coccidia There can be no doubt that the gregarmes and coccidia are closely allied m every respect, and that the two groups are distinguished by points of ^^''^ ^-^^^ to siightVc£^^::enl Bibliography.~Fov references see p. 494.