THE H^MOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 291 some of the sheep, it would furnish another instance of hereditary transmission. Hence this mode of transmission must, apparently, be reckoned Avith in some instances, though it is evidently an ex- tremely rare phenomenon in trypanosomes generally. Just as a given species of trypanosome is, in Nature, capable of mamtaining itself only in a particular species, or limited group of species, of vertebrate hosts, so it may be said, as a general rule, that in transmission by the cyclical method the parasites are specific in the same way to certain invertebrate hosts, in Avhich alone they are able to go through their full natural cycle. Amongst the many blood-sucking invertebrates which may prey upon the vertebrate, we may distinguish " right" and " wrong " hosts ; in the right host or hosts the parasite establishes itself more or less easily, and passes through a full and complete developmental cycle ; in the wrong host it either dies out immediately or goes through only a part of its cycle. The distinction between right and wrong hosts must not, however, be taken in an absolute sense, but as implying only that, amongst many possible hosts, there is one at least to which the parasites have become better adapted than to any other ; but the trypanosomes may sometimes succeed in maintaining themselves in other than the right host sufficiently long to pass back again into the vertebrate. Thus, in the case of the rat-trypanosome [T. lewisi) the right host is a rat-flea {Cerato- phyllus fasciatus, or possibly other species) ; but it may persist in the rat-louse {Hcematopinus spinulosus), and even pass from it, though rarely, back into the rat again. The following are a few well-established examples, in addition to that of T. lewisi abeady cited, of trypanosomes and their right hosts. Many pathogenic species of trypanosomes in Africa are transmitted by tsetse-flies—e.j/., T. gambiense and T. vivax by Glossina palpalis, T. hrucii by G. morsitans* etc. The recently- described T. cruzi of Brazil was discovered in its invertebrate host, a blood-sucking hemipterous insect, Gonorhinus megistus, before it Avas found m the blood of human beings. The trypanosomes of certam fresh-water fishes — namely, goldfish, perch, etc. —pass through their developmental cycle in the leech Hemiclepsis mar- gmata (Robertson, 503). T. raice of skates and rays develops in the leech Pontobdella muricata (Robertson, 500, 502). The trypano- some of African crocodiles, T. grayi, develops in the tsetse-fly Glossina palpalis (Kleine, 458 ; ICleine and Taute, 459), and stages m Its life-cycle have consequently been confused Avith those of T gamhense in the same fly. The trypanosomes of birds are prob- ably transmitted for the most part by mosquitoes, but the details of to Taute, G. morsitans can act as a true host for T. mmhiense mrl conversely, accordmg to Fischer, 0. palpalis can do the same forlr.CS '