388 THE PROTOZOA blood-corpuscles singly, but their growth and multiplication were not ob- served. The parasite appears to develop in red corpuscles, which it finally fills completely, breaking up the nucleus ; no pigment is formed. The youngest forms show sometimes a grain near the nucleus, possibly a kinetonuclcus. With the bodies desciibcd by Neumann may bo compared those observed by Mathis and Leger (473, pp. 417-419, Plato XIII., Pigs. 12-16) in a fish, Glarias macrocephalus ; possibly they have some connection with the trypano- some found in the same host. Immanoplasma scyllii, Neumann (488), is a parasite of the red blood- corpuscles of Scyllium canicula. It grows to a size of 30 by 20 , and in life is feebly amoeboid. Its protoplasm stains very deep blue by the Romanowsky stain, and its nucleus appears usually as if separate from the rest of the body of the parasite, lymg apparently free from it in the blood-corpuscle. Some forms of the parasite have paler protoplasm with a larger nucleus, others darker protoplasm with a smaller nucleus ; the two forms are possibly male and female. No pigment is produced. The development of the parasite remains at present unknown. Finally mention must be made of the so-caUed " KurlofE-Demel bodies," found in the leucocytes of the guinea-pig. According to Patella (755) they are true " leucocytozoa," but according to Mathis and Leger (473) they are not of parasitic nature. A memoir will be published shortly by Dr. E. H. Ross, however, in which it will be shown that the Kurloff-bodies are true parasites, representing, apparently, a stage of a motile organism, probably a spirochsete, found free in the blood. The author proposes for this parasite the name Lymphocytozoon cobayce. Affinities of the Hcemosporidia.—Two opposed and conflicting theories with regard to the systematic position of the Haemosporidia hold the field at the present time. 1, The older and more generally accepted view is that the Hsemosporidia are closely aUied to the Coccidia, sufficiently so, in fact, to be classed with them in a single order. Thus,Doflein divides the Telosporidia into two orders, the Gregarmoidea and the Coccidiomorpha, the latter comprising two subdivisions, Coc- cidia and Hsemosporidia ; while Mesnil placed the Hsemosporidia, together with the genus Legerella, amongst the Coccidia in an order Asporocystea, characterized by the absence of sporocysts in the oocyst, a character that cannot be utiHzed in this manner now that some heemogregarines have been shown to form sporocysts. 2. Hartmann and others {e.g., Aweruizew) mamtam that the H^mosporidia should be removed altogether from the Sporozoa, and should be classed, together with the HsemoflageUates, as an order of the Flagellata, for which the name Binucleata is pro- posed smce the chief structural feature common to all members of the order is supposed to be the possession of two differentiated nuclei, a kinetonucleus and a trophonucleus, distinct from each other. It must be clearly understood that the theory of the Binucleata, as pro- pounSy Hartmami and his school, is not merely one of a general relation- shTbetwSn Hcemosporidia and FlageUata. This wjder pomt of view will be Lcus^rwEhe affi^^^^^ of the Telosporidia as a whole are considered The ques ion at present under discussion is whether the Ha=mosporidia, more