THE INFUSORIA 437 unite usually into more or less conspicuous main ducts—so-called " feeding-canals "—which empty themselves into a contractile vacuole. The arrangement of the contractile vacuoles and canals varies considerably in different species. Thus, in Stentor (Fig. 8) there is a single contractile vacuole, with a feeding-canal running the length of the body ; so also in Spirostomum (Fig. 180, /.c). In Paramecium (Fig. 185) there are two contractile vacuoles near each end of the body. The vacuole contracts suddenly, diminishing to a tiny globule, and then some six or eight feeding-canals make their appearance, arranged round the vacuole in a star-like figure, but at first distinct from the central vacuole. The inner ends of the feeding-canals gradually swell, and, after reaching a certain size, burst through and empty themselves into the central vacuole, which grows slowly to its full size, and as it does so the feeding-canals disappear by degrees from view. When the vacuole has reached its fuU size, it empties itself to the exterior, and the process begins again. The contractile vacuole itself may be considered as a cen- tralized portion of the canal-system, and though when full it bulges into the endoplasm, it belongs strictly to the ectoplasm. The endoplasm is the seat of nutrition, and also, as contaming the nuclear apparatus, of reproductive processes. It is of fluid consistence, and exhibits streamuig movements, termed " cyclosis " —that is to say, currents of protoplasm which flow round constantly in one direction, as if the endoplasm was being stirred round and round. The endoplasm contains enclosures of various kuids, chief amongst which are the food-vacuoles, containing ingested food- particles in process of digestion. The food-vacuoles are formed at the base of the oesophagus, down which food-particles are wafted by the action of the adoral cilia and membranes. When full-sized, the food-vacuole becomes detached from the end of the oesophagus, like a soap-bubble from a pipe, and passes round the body in the currents of the endoplasm, the indigestible faecal residue beuag expeUed finally from the anal pore (p. 433, supra). In addition to food-vacuoles, the endoplasm contains various metaplastic grains, excretory granules, " spheroplasts " (see p. 448), and sometimes symbiotic algae. The nuclei are typically two in number—a large, conspicuous macronucleus, staining deeply ; and a micronucleus of much smaller size, often very inconspicuous, and difficult to stain. In primitive forms the macronucleus is a compact body, and the micronucleus appears as a small refringent globule close beside it, often lodged in a depression of the surface of the macronucleus (Fig. 185, N, n). But the nuclei show very great variation in form, number, and appearance. The macronucleus may be drawn out into the shape