62 THE PROTOZOA body (Fig. 4, St.). The belief that the stigma is the seat of light- perception receives support from the fact that in some cases it is found associated with lens-like structures, which evidently serve to concentrate light upon it and act as dioptric elements, as in Pouchetia (Fig. 31). B. Endoplasmic Organs. The bulk of the endoplasm in proportion to that of the whole body varies greatly in different Protozoa. In Flagellata, for example, the protoplasmic body must be considered as consisting almost entirely of endoplasm, the ectoplasm furnishing only the delicate periplast and myonemes. Similarly, in motionless para- sitic forms, such as the Coccidia or the " coelomic " Gregarmes (p. 326, infra), the body within the cuticle is entirely endoplasm. On the other hand, in Ciliata, in wliich the ectoplasm may give rise to a number of different structures, the endoplasm is often a rela- tively restricted region of the body. In these examples that have been cited, the ectoplasm and endoplasm are probably stable layers, and then- relative proportions are consequently more or less constant for a given phase of the life-history ; but in amceboid forms, as already pointed out, ectoplasm and endoplasm are interchange- able, and the amount of each layer present in an organism varies with the extent of its body-surface ; that is to say, the proportion of ectoplasm to endoplasm is greatest when the amoeba is moving actively and throwing out many pseudopodia, and least when it is in a restmg condition and has assumed the spherical form. As stated above, the endoplasm is a fluid, granular substance, which contains various enclosures connected with the nutritive function, and also the nucleus or nuclei. Hence it may be re- garded as the seat of trophic and reproductive functions. The nuclear apparatus will be dealt with in a separate chapter, since it belongs, strictly speaking, neither to the ectoplasm nor the endo- plasm, though commonly lodged in the latter. In this chapter only the structural elements connected with the function of food ingestion and assimilation will be described. The contents of the endoplasm vary greatly, according to the mode of life of the organism. In saprophytic and most parasitic forms no special organs are found in connection with the nutritive function, the food being simply absorbed in a soluble condition at the surface of the body, probably by the aid of enzymes secreted by the organism, but not by any recognizable organs. In holozoic and holophytic forms, however, special organs, differing widely in each case, are present for the assimilation or elaboration of food. 1. In holozoic Protozoa the organs of assimilation take the form oifood-vacuoleSy mmute droplets of fluid in which the solid particles