157 SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA in highly-organized forms, such as the Ciliata. Hertwig (68) con- siders that the separation of two kinds of chromatin is an adaptation to particular conditions of life, evolved progressively, and attaining its greatest perfection in the Ciliata ; whereby chromatin which has become functionally effete is separated from that which has retamed its constitution. According to the view put forward by Hertwig (118), syngamy remedies the effete condition of the cell chiefly by regulating the necessary quantitative balance between the nucleus and the cyto- plasm. Such regulation may be effected also by internal re- arrangements of the nuclear substance or by plastogamy, but is brought about most efficiently by syngamy, since the definite and necessary mutual relations between nucleus and cytoplasm are better maintained by " arrangements which prevent disturbance, than by arrangements which compensate for disturbances that have already set in." The obvious criticism of this theory is that it is difficult to understand why an internal regulative process of the cell should require the co-operation of two individuals, and the reason contained in the sentence just quoted from Hertwig scarcely seems an adequate explanation. The fact that two cells participate in syngamy indicates in itself that the necessity for syngamy depends on a loss of balance between two constituents or substances in the cell, and that the union of the two gametes restores equilibrium. As Hertwig (119) has pointed out, the quantitative relation of nucleus to cytoplasm is more altered in the gametes of Metazoa than in any other cells, and to opposite extremes in the two sexes ; in the ovum the quantity of cytoplasm is enormous in proportion to the nucleus, while in the spermatozoon the exact reverse is the case. The same argu- ment applies to a greater or less degree in the case of anisogamous gametes of Protozoa. It would not, however, apply to the many cases of isogamy in Protozoa where the quantitative relations of nucleus and cytoplasm are the same in each gamete ; in such cases union of the gametes would leave the nucleo-cytoplasmic relation exactly what it was before. A theory of a different kind has been put forward by Schaudinn (133) and his followers Prowazek (128) and Hartmann (116), which is based on the notion that sex and sexual differentiation are primary characteristics of living matter. A normally function- ing cell is regarded as hermaphrodite, having male and female elements equally balanced. The differentiation which leads to the formation of gametes arises, as Biitschli originally suggested, from inequalities in the results of cell-division, which may be supposed to lead always to more or less imperfect partition of the qualities of the parent-cell between the daughter-cells. As a result