THE PROTOZOA 294 which are about to reproduce themselves by some form of fission while the small forms arc those which have resulted from a recent act of reproduction. The multiplication of T. lewisi in the rat's blood takes various forms ,n^'r.^^\ 1^ ^ trypanosome divides by equal binary fission (C, JJ), but tins is comparatively rare. More usually the fission is markedly unequal, and of a multiple type. Small daughter-forms are split off from large parent -mdividuals, and usually many at a time; the nucleus of the parent- lorna divides several times, and subsequently the body divides into as many portions as there are nuclei, thus producing rosette like forms (Fig. 127, F, G, H) in which the original parent can usually be distinguished by its long flagoUum from the small daughter-individuals with their flagella growing out. The small forms are sometimes set free with a crithidial type of struc- ture, the kinetonucleus in front of the trophonucleus (Fig. 127, L), and these immature forms may proceed to reproduce themselves rapidly again by either binary or multiple fission, in the latter case forming rosettes in which no large parent-form can be distmguished (Fig. 127. K). A curious type of trypanosome found during the' multiplication-period of T. lewisi is a form with the posterior end prolonged to a great length, so that it abnost resembles a second flagellum (Fig. 127, E), and has sometimes been mistaken for such. This form has been described by Lingard as a dis- tinct species under the name T. longocaudense. These forms appear to arise by binary fission (Fig. 127, D) ; they are of constant occurrence and very numerous at a certain stage of the multiplication-period. The multiplication of T. lewisi in the rat's blood is most active from the eighth to the tenth day after infection, after which it is on the decline and gradually ceases. The relative number of forms of ordinary size increases steadily, while those of unusual dimen- sions, whether great or small, become continually scarcer, until about the tweKth or thirteenth day the trypanosomes, now usually present in vast numbers in the blood, are of uniform size and appearance, exhibiting, apart from occasional abnormalities, indi- vidual variations only of a comparatively slight character ; and all multiplication has ceased entirely, never to recommence in the same host. The trypanosomes swarm in the blood of the rat for a certain time, which varies in diflferent cases, but is usually one or two months. The infect'on of the rat is sometimes spoken of as " acute " when the trypanosomes are multiplying, and as " chronic " when multiphcation has ceased, not, however, very well-chosen terms, since the trypanosomes soon begin to diminish in number, and finally disappear altogether ; sometimes the diminution is very gradual and slow, sometime? it takes place with great rapidity. In either case the rat gets rid of its infection entirely sooner or later, without havuig suffered, apparently, any marked inconvenience from it,* and is then immune against a fresh infection with this species of trypanosome. * Instances are on record of lethal epizootics of rats ascribed to T. lewisi; but the proof that this parasite was really the cause of the disease is lacking. Under normal circumstances rats show no perceptible pathological symptoms whatever