THE PROTOZOA 170 and become a flagellula ; after a time the flagellula settles down and becomes an amoebula again after loss of the fiagellum. A very interesting point, in connection with the question of young and adult forms of Protozoa, is the occurrence of stages in the developn\ent which may be interpreted as recapitulative in the phylogenctic sense—^that is to say, as representing past stages in the evolution of the species, in a manner comparable to the recapitu- lative larval or embryonic stages in the development of Metazoa. It is probable that such recapitulative stages are commoner in the development of Protozoa than has been generally supposed (compare Awerinzew, 47). The best-lmown instance is furnished by the cihated larvae of Acinetaria (p. 459), indicating that this order is descended from a ciliate ancestor of the order Peritricha, a relation- ship fully confirmed by the similarity of their reproductive processes to those of other Infusoria. The crithidial phase that occurs so constantly in the development of trypanosomes (p. 299) is probably to be regarded as a recapitulative form representing a type of structure antecedent in evolution to that of the typical trypanosome- form. The frequent occurrence of flagellated swarm-spores in the development of Sarcodina (Foraminifera, p. 235 ; Radiolaria, p. 254) probably has a phylogenctic significance, as pointed out by Biitschli. Finally attention may be drawn to the remarkable series of forms in the ontogeny of Arcella described in the next chapter; first the amoebula, then the Nuclearia-stage, followed by the Pseudoclilamys- stage, which grows finally into the adult Arcdla-iovm. In the many cases where young forms are markedly different from the adult, it may be a difficult matter, as it often is in the case of Metazoa, to decide whether a given larval form is to be interpreted as recapitu- lative or merely adaptive ; but even in cases where the characters of a larval form have an obvious adaptive importance, as in the cihated larvae of Acinetaria, atavism may be nevertheless a factor determining the particular form taken by the adaptive characters in question—that is to say, by the organs of locomotion in the example chosen. 3. Polymorphism in Relation to Sex.—The phenomena of sexual differentiation consist primarily of differences in size, structure, and other characteristics between the gametes, the cells which are con- cerned in the act of syngamy. Secondarily such differences may extend to other cell-individuals, both in the Ufe-cycle of a Protozoon or in the body of a Metazoon. In the previous chapter it has been pointed out that, while in Metazoa the gametes at least are sharply differentiated in all cases, in the Protozoa every condition is found from perfect isogamy to a differentiation nearly as pronounced as that in the Metazoa. The question has been discussed in the last chapter whether or no sexual differentiation is to be regarded as