PREFACE vi great light on some of the fundamental mysteries of living matter— as, for example, sex — and a special chapter dealing with the physiology of the Protozoa has been added. In so wide a field it is almost necessary to exercise some favour- itism in the choice of objects, and greater stress has been laid in this work upon the parasitic forms, both on account of the many interesting biological problems which they present, and also because they come into closer relationship with the practical needs of human life than the non-parasitic species. The author wishes, however, to point out clearly that he is not a medical man, but one who approaches the study of the parasitic Protozoa solely from the standpoint of a naturalist who is more concerned, so to speak, with the mterests of the parasite than with those of the host. Conse- quently, purely medical problems—such as, for example, the symptoms and treatment of diseases caused by trypanosomes and other Protozoa—are not dealt with in this book, since the author deems it no part of his task to attempt to instruct medical men concerning matters with which they are better acquamted by their training and experience than himself. The needs of medical men have, however, been specially kept in view, and the author hopes that the book will succeed in supplying them with useful informa- tion, at least from a general zoological or biological standpoint. In a science, such as protozoology, which is growing actively and receivuag continually new additions, and in which most of the data are based upon an elaborate and dehcate technique, there are necessarily many controversial matters to be dealt with. In such cases the points at issue have been reviewed critically, and the author has, wherever possible, attempted to give a lead by mdicating more or less decisively what is, in his opmion, the most probable solution of the problem under discussion. Such judgments, how- ever, are not mtended to be put forward in a dogmatic or polemical spirit, suace the author recogriizes fully that any conclusion now reached may be upset entirely by fresh evidence to the contrary. The vast hterature of the Protozoa would, if cited in fuU, easily fiU by itself a volume of the size of the present one. It has been necessary, therefore, to restrict the Hmits of the bibliography as much as possible, both by selecting carefully the memou's to be cited and by abbreviating their titles. The works selected for reference comprise, first, comprehensive treatises which deal with the subject, or with some part of it in a general way. and m which fuU references to older works will be found ; secondly, c assica memoirs on particular subjects, also contaming, as a rule full bibhographies ; and, thirdly, such miemoirs of recent date as have