THE PROTOZOA 392 Buch forms on his Plate XXIT., Pigs. 2-4-small intracorpnscular forms, more or less Letshmanm-hko, jvUhont pigment, and wiih, apparently, distinct tro- phomiclcns and kinetonuclcus. ^ It is not necessary to deal Avitli Scliandinn's statements concerning Lenco- cytozoon further than has been done above (p. 370). It is now as certain as anythmg can ever be ni such matters that Leucocyiozoon has nothing whatever to do with cither trypanosomes or spirochaetes. The six forms of biood- parasites of the Little Owl may be regarded as belonging to five species namely: A proteosoma (1), a halteridium (2), a trypanosome (3 and 4) a Icucocytozoon (5), and a spirochete (6). Of these five, it is probable that only the proteosoma, the trypanosome, and possibly the spirocha;te, can develop in, and be transmitted by, a gnat; the halteridium and the Icucocytozoon require, probably, quite different intermediate hosts. If, therefore, a Culex were fed on an owl containing in its blood halteridia and leucocytozoa abun- dantly, and trypanosomes and spirochjetes in scanty numbers, the first two parasites might be expected to die out after the ookinete-stage, while the trypanosomes, and possibly the spirochaetes, would multiply, and thus produce very easily the impression that they were derived from the intracorpuscular parasites. Even less cogent for the theory of Haemoflagellate affinities than the argu- ments deduced from the development of Hsemosporidia are those based on the development of Hsemoflagellates. Thus the schizogony of Schizotry- panum discovered by Chagas has been compared to that of a malarial parasite, and has been adduced seriously as an additional proof of the alleged affinities between trypanosomes and hcemamoebse. But " schizogony "—that is, repro- duction by simple or multiple fission without concomitant sexual phenomena, —occurs throughout the whole range of the Protozoa, and affords no proof whatever of genetic affinities. Those who bring forward such an argument must surely have forgotten that the word "schizogony" was originally coined by Schaudinn for the non-sexual multiplication of Trichosphoerium sieboldi, a marine Rhizopod (p. 181). 2. Cyiological Data.—The theory of the Hsemoflagellatc affinities of the Hsemosporidia has led to the most laborious and painstaking efforts to discover in the body of each and every Hsemosporidian parasite, in at least some of its phases, a second nucleus, the homologue of the kinetonuclcus ; and any little granule, however minute, that can be coloured like chromatin is pro- claimed triumphantly to be the inevitable kinetonuclcus, or any streak of similar staining properties to be a flageUum. Consider first by itself the case of a ceU in which, in addition to the nucleus, there is seen a grain which, by some particular dye, is stained in a manner similar, or nearly so, to the chromatin of the nucleus. This is not by itself a decisive proof that the grain in question is chromatin, since, as pointed out above, other grains may take up so-caUed " ehromatin-stains " ; the body in question may therefore be chromatin or some other substance. If it be oliromatin, it may be a chromidial granule extruded from the nucleus ; or it may be a body of the nature of a karyosome, situated close to the edge of the nucleus, or possibly, in some cases, where the nucleus has no Hmiting mem- brane, a little way from the main mass of the nucleus; or it may be a true kinetonuclcus. If it be not chromatin, it may be a centrosome or blepharo- plast; or a grain of mctachromatinic substance, such as volutin; or, lastly, some other kind of metaplastic body. There are therefore many possible alterna- tives before a grain that stains like chromatin can be identified definitely as being a kinetonuclcus and nothing else. What are the criteria by whicli a grain that stains hke chromatin can be identified as a kinetonuclcus, to the exclusion of other possible interpretations of its nature ? In the first place, according to modem views (see p. 288, supra, and compare especially Rosenbusch, 505), a kinetonucleus is not a simple granule, mass or lump of chromatin, but it is a true nucleus with centriole, karyosome, and a nuclear cavity, actual or virtual, containing nuclear sap at least, if not peripheral chromatin also. Secondly, a kineto-