THE H^MOSPORIDIA S91 resting intracorpuscular diurnal phase of a trypanosome which at night developed a locomotor apparatus, became free from the blood-corpuscle, and swam freely in the plasma ; in the morning the trypanosome penetrated into a corpuscle, lost its locomotor apparatus again, and became a halteridium. Male, female and indifferent forms were distinguished. The smallest in- different forms went through a six-day development and growth, in the corpuscle as a halteridium by day, free in the plasma, as a trypanosome by night, until Ml grown; then they multiplied rapidly by repeated fission to produce trypanosomes of the smallest size. These young forms might grow up into indifferent forms in their turn, or might become male or female forms ; in the latter event their development was slower, and in its later stages the parasite lost the power of forming a locomotor apparatus or of leaving the corpuscle. Thus arose the adult male and female halteridia, which, in order to continue their development, required to be taken up by a gnat, Culev pipiens. In the stomach of the gnat the parasites formed gametes which copulated and produced zygotes in the well-known manner. Each ookinete, according to Schaudinn, formed a locomotor apparatus (see Fig. 30, p. 59) and either became a trypanosome which might be of female or indifferent type, or gave rise to several trj^anosomes in the male sex. The trypanosomes of each type multiplied in the digestive tract of the gnat to produce a swarm of trimorphic individuals, but no further copulation of the male and female forms occiu-red or could occur (Schaudinn, 132, p. 401). Ultimately, after complicated migrations, the trypanosomes were inoculated by the gnat into the owl again ; the male and indifferent forms passed tlu'ough the proboscis, but the female forms were too bulky to do so, and, as the male forms were stated to die off in the blood, there was effective inoculation of indifferent forms only, which start on the cycle of development already described. These remarkable statements, the origin and significance of which have been, for the last seven years, a veritable riddle of the sphmx, have met with general scepticism except from a few devoted partisans, who have been striving continually to find corroborative evidence for Schaudinn's theories, in spite of the mass of evidence to the contrary that has been steadily accu- mulating. Recently Mayer (685) has affirmed that in owl's blood containing only halteridia, kept imder observation in hanging drops under the micro- scope, trjrpanosomes make their appearance which could only have come there by transformation of halteridia. These experiments are supposed to prove conclusively one part, at least, of Schaudinn's statements—namely, that the halteridia are merely intracorpuscular stages of trypanosomes. Against Schaudinn's views, on the other hand, two principal objections, out of many, may be urged : First, that the development of Hcemoproteus columbce, as made known by the Sergent brothers and by Aragao, is of a totally different type to that described by Schaudinn ; it comprises no trypanosome-phases at any point of the hfe-cycle, and the invertebrate host is not a gnat, but a biting fly of an altogether different kuid. To meet this objection, Mayer proposes to restrict the name Hcemoproteus to forms which develop after the manner of H. colwmhce, and to revive the name Halteridium (in itahcs and with an initial capital letter) for parasites that, on the Schaudinnian theory, are really trypanosomes. Secondly, that the small trypanosomes of Athene noctua are connected by every possible transitional form with the largest found in the same bird, and there is every reason to suppose that in this case, as in other birds or vertebrates of all classes, they are all merely forms of one polymorphic try- panosome (Minchin and Woodcock, 42). It may be added that the whole mystery receives a complete solution on a simple supposition—namely, that the trypanosome of the Little Owl, like other known species of trypanosomes (see p. 308), has intracorpuscular forms which have been confused with the true haltorida; on such an assumption so emment an investigator as Schaudinn can be acquitted of having made what would appear at first sight to be a gross error of observation, and Mayer's observations are easily explained. Mayer seems, in fact, to have figured