CLASSIFICATION OF THE MAIN SUBDIVISIONS 465 tives of the two classes may differ, there are forms of which the systematic position is quite arbitrary. In such a form as Pseudo- spora, it becomes almost purely a matter of opinion or taste which phase of the life-cycle is to be regarded as the " adult" form determining the class in which the genus is to be placed. Thus, all paths of evolution in Protozoa ajjpear to lead back- wards to one or the other of the two forms that occur so frequently in the actual development as the earliest phases—the amoebula and the flagellula. Most of those who have speculated on the phylogeny of the Protozoa have, consequently, regarded the an- cestral form of the phylum as one combining amoeboid and flagellate characters. Biitschli (2) considered that the Rhizomastigina re- present more nearly than any other existuig group the primitive type of Protozoon. Since then, however, the life-cycle of the mastigamoebae has been studied, and it is seen that the adult amoeboid form is preceded in development by a simpler monad form (p. 266, Fig. 112), which makes it very doubtful if the niastig- amoeba itself can be taken as a primitive type. Awerinzew (890) also regards an " amoeboflagellate " type as the primitive stock of Protozoa, which gave rise to all existing groups, and became differentiated into the Amoebina on the one hand, the Flagellata on the other. If an organism possesses two kinds of locomotor organs—pseudo- podia and flageUa—it is reasonable to suppose that a still more primitive and ancestral form would have possessed only one of these two kinds of organs. It has been seen that there is a gradual transition from pseudopodia to flagella, the intermediate type of organ being a pseudopodium (axopodium) with a firm, rigid, or elastic secreted axis. The question then arises, Which end of the series is to be put first, the flagellum or the pseudopodium ? Inas- much as flagella are found commonly in bacteria, it might be argued that they represent the most prunitive type of locomotor organella, and that a simple flagellate monad would represent most nearly the ancestral type of organization in Protozoa. Then it must be sup- posed that the formation of pseudopodia is a secondary character, acquired by the ancestral form, and the pseudopodia themselves would represent either simple outgrowths of the naked body (lobo- podia) or modifications of flagella (axopodia). Havmg regard, however, to the manner in which flagella them- selves arise—as simple outgrowths from the body—and to the fact that their structure and mode of action are apparently of a much more specialized type than those of pseudopodia, the conclusion seems irresistible that pseudopodia preceded flagella in evolution. We may, then, regard as the most ancestral type in the Protozoa a mmute amoebula-form, in structure a true cell, with nucleus and 30