379 THE H.MOSPORIDIA The best-known member of this group of organisms is a parasite of the blood of cattle (Fig. 160), which has been most unfortunate in its nomenclature, and has appeared under a variety of generic names [Hcematococcus, Pyrosoma, Apiosoma, Piroplasrna), but of which the correct name is probably Babesia hovis (or higemina). The typical form of this parasite is a pear-shaped body withm the blood-corpuscle. It multiphes by binary fission, and is often double in consequence—whence the specific name higemina. Many other species are now known, parasites of domestic animals in various parts of the world, and of recentyears a number of species have been made known from wild animals, but our knowledge of piroplasms in a natural state is not very extensive. No species is Imown with certamty to be parasitic upon human beings, but a disease known as " spotted fever of the Rocky Mountains " has been stated to be caused by Piroplasrna hominis, and it is possible that the organisms Fig. 160.—Piroplasrna higeminum {Babesia hovis) in the blood-corpuscles of the ox. a, b, Youngest forms; c—/, binary fission; g—j, various forms of the twin parasites; k, I, doubly-infected corpuscles. After Laveran and Nicolle. described from the blood of yellow fever patients by Seidelin (757), and named by him Paraplasma flavigenum, may be allied to the piroplasms. The investigations upon these organisms carried on during the last few years have led to their being divided up into a number of genera based on differences of form and structure. The following enumeration of the genera of " Piroplasmidoe " may serve at the same time to indicate the structural varieties exhibited by these parasites (compare Tranga, 736). (1) Piroplasrna, Patton {Babesia, Starcovici).—Pear-shaped forms, dividing by a process of gemmation—hence commonly found in pairs in the corpuscle. Species are known from oxen, sheep, horses (P. cahalli of " bihary fever "), dogs, monkeys, rats, and various wild animals. (2) Theileria, Bettencourt, Fran§a and Borges.—Bacilliform or rod-shaped parasites arranged in a characteristic figure of a