THE PROTOZOA 22 {T. equiperdum) passes from one host to another during coitus, and the transmission of the parasite of syphilis is another instance. Speaking generally, and excluding for the moment those cases in which the transmission is brought about by means of an inter- mediary host, the propagative phases of the parasitic Protozoa take the form of inactive, resting stages in which the body of the parasite is protected against adverse external conditions by tough protective membranes. In the form of resistant cysts or spores, the parasites in a dormant state offer a passive and inert resistance to the elements ; they are disseminated like seeds, and they ger- minate when they reach a suitable environment, but not till then. Many, perhaps the majority of parasitic Protozoa, occupy posi- tions in the body of the host whence the propagative phases can pass without difficulty to the exterior. This is the case when the para- site is lodged in organs which have ducts or passages leading directly or indirectly to the exterior—such as, for instance, the digestive tract and its dependencies, or the urinary organs and ducts. In all such cases the propagative stages of the parasite pass harmlessly to the exterior. The host may in this manner get rid entirely of its parasites, without, however, necessarily acquiring immunity to- fresh infections ; or, on the other hand, the parasite may keep up its numbers in the host by continual multiplication to produce a stock from which are sent forth incessant relays of the propagative phases destined to infect new hosts. In the majority of parasitic Pro- tozoa the relations to the host are of this type, and the parasites are neither lethal nor pathogenic to any great extent. On the other hand, there are many instances in which parasitic Protozoa occupy a position in the body of the host whence escape by anatomical channels is not possible. This is the case when the parasite inhabits some closed space in the body, such as the coelome or general body-cavity, or the blood-system ; or when it attacks deeply-situated cells or tissues of the body. In some cases where natural means of exit from the body occur, they may be unsuitable for the dissemination of the parasite, as in the case of those forms parasitic in the genital organs of one sex of the host. In cases of this kind there are at least six known methods whereby parasitic Protozoa are disseminated and transferred to fresh hosts. 1. The resistant stages of the parasite may be set free by the death and decay of its host. This appears to be the manner in which some of the tissue-infecting parasites of the order Myxo- sporidia, especially the family Myxobolidce, are disseminated ; they are for the most part parasites of fishes, and are often very deadly in their effects. 2. The parasite may cause tumours and ulcers, Avhich suppurate, and so set free the cysts or spores of the parasite. This, again, is