THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 55 hcand in a purely parasitic form such as Ovalina (p. 439), in which a mouth is entirely absent, only locomotor cilia are present. The chief modifications of cilia, apart from variations m size and function, are the result of a tendency to adhere or fuse together ; thus arise various types of organs, of which the most common are the cirri, membranellce, and undulating membranes. Cim are organs resembling bristles, formed by fusion of a tuft of cilia, just as the hairs of an ordinary camel's-hair paint-brush adhere when moistened so as to form a flexible pencil. In many cases the cirri have frayed- out ends, m which the component cilia are distinct from one another ; and reagents often cause a cirrus to break up into separate cilia. Cirri have a locomotor function, and are especially characteristic of the ciliate Infusoria which are of creepmg habit (order Hypotricha, p. 440, infra). The cirri occur on the ventral sm-face of the body—that is to say, on the side of the body turned towards the substratum on which the organism creeps, using the cu-ri practically as legs. Membranellee are flapping or swinguig membranes formed by fusion of two or more transverse rows of cilia implanted side by side, and adhermg to form a flat membrane, the free edge of which often has a frmged or frayed border, representmg the free ends of the component cilia. Membranellae occur usually in the region of the peristome in spu-al rows, implanted one behind the other, and each membranella performs simple movements of alternate flexion and expansion, comparable to those of a smgle cilium. Both in structure, origm, and movements, the membranellae must be distmguished clearly from the undulating membranes presently to be described. Undulating membranes are sheet-like extensions of the ectoplasm, which perform rippling movements, comparable to those of a sail placed edgewise to the wmd ; or, better still, to the undulatmg movements performed by the dorsal fin of a sea-horse {Hippocampus) or a pipe-fish (Syngnathus) when swimmuig. The undulating mem- branes of Ciliata consist simply of a single row of cilia fused together. Such membranes are found commonly in the oesophagus of In- fusoria ; in the vestibule of Vorticellids there are two membranes of this kind. In some genera, such as Pleuronema (Fig. 27), they represent the princixDal food-capturing organ, and reach a great development. Pleuronema swims about by means of its cilia, and comes to rest sooner or later in a characteristic attitude, with the cilia projecting stiffly from the body ; the large undulatmg membrane is then protruded from the mouth, and serves by its movements to waft food-particles down the 03Sophagus. Undulating membranes are also of common occurrence in the Flagellata, where they are of a different type from those of Ciliata. The undulating membrane in this class is always found m connec-