183 POLYMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES protoplasmic body is a multinucleate Plasmodium. There are two forms of the adult—the schizonts (agamonts), which are dis- tinguished by the presence of rod-like spicules in the envelope (Fig. 81, A); and the sporonts (gamonts), which have no spicules (Fig. 81, F). The schizonts reproduce themselves either in the free state or after encystment. In the free state the reproduction is by simple or multiple plasmotomy—^that is to say, by division of the Plasmodium into two or more portions. In the encysted con- dition the schizonts divide by multiple fission into as many daughter- cells as there are nuclei in the Plasmodium (Fig. 81, B), and each daughter-ceU is set free as an amoebula (agamete), which may either grow up into a sporont, or into a schizont which repeats the process of multiphcation by schizogony. The sporont may reproduce itself in the free state in the same manner as the schizont, by plasmotomy, or it may become encysted, and then it multiplies in a manner totally different from that seen in the corresponding phase of the schizont. The nuclei of the encysted sporont multiply rapidly by karyokinesis (Fig. 81, G) until there are a very large number of minute nuclei; very probably the final divisions in this process of multiplication are reducing divisions. The protoplasmic body then becomes divided up into as many minute ceUs as there are nuclei, and each of the daughter-cells acquires two flageha, and is set free as a flagellula or gamete (Fig. 81, H). The gametes, which are not differentiated in any way, copulate with those derived from another sporont, and lose their flagella (Fig. 81,1—L); the zygote is a small amoebula which grows up into a schizont (Fig. 81, L, M, N, A). An alternation of generations similar to that of Tnchosphcerium occurs also in the Foraminifera (p. 234). Here the schizont contains numerous nuclei, which multiply by fission as the animal grows, and also chromidia ; it reproduces itself by a process of multiple fission, breakmg up into a number of amoebulse (agametes), each with a! nucleus and chxomidia. The amoebulae creep out of the old shell, which is abandoned, and each amoebula secretes a sheU for itself' Fig. 81 conlinuei : itself and grows, with multiplication of the nuclei {D and E) Into the gamete- but without rods in the envelope ; the sporont may also multiply in a veseta tive manner by simple or multiple fission, or it may form gametes^n the tTKr^at^'numV' f ''''''' ^if iP^-*-^ oi tL nuclef7tt s^orJlft ,iT. In^^ ^ number of very small nuclei, after which the body divides up into as many mmute cells as there are nuclei ; these cells are the gametes and each gamete acquires two flagella ; //, rupturaof the envelopTto sS fieo morf f!!'. .T' -hich swarm out and conjugate 7, conjugatSrof ?vvo gamete moic highly magnified ; ,7, after fusion of the bodies of the gametes the flagella are thrown off ; K, fusion of the two pronuclei ; L. compkto zygote hio th^Zr'' "P",'^'^^ ^itl^ nndtiplication of the nuclei TaIN) StertchtZiMifl)."'"' ^'^'"^ ^ starting-point of the lifi-cycfel