THE HiEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 289 a karyosome, and it is surrounded by a space, sometimes purely virtual, which represents the nuclear vacuole, bordered by a delicate nuclear mem- brane, on or close to which the basal granule of the flagoUum is lodged. In some species of the ftntcu-group, an axial filament, apparently a sup- porting structure of the nature of an axostyle, has been described (c/. Swel- lengrebel, 514). The system of fibrils, however, with which Prowazek decorates the trypanosome-body are probably artefacts (c/. Minchin, 479). Many trypanosomes contain granules in their cji^oplasm which stain similarly to chromatin, so-called " chromatoid grains." According to Swel- lengrebel (514), they are of the nature of volutin (p. 68, supra). The division of a trypanosome is initiated, as a rule, by the division of the blepharoplast or basal granule of the flagellum, and following close on this a reduplication of the flagellum takes place, the exact method of which is disputed. In some cases the old flagellum appears to split; in others the parent-flagellum remains unaltered, and a daughter-flagellum grows out from the daughter-blepharoplast. It is asserted by some that in all eases the new flagellum really arises as an independent outgrowth of a blepharoplast, and that the splitting of the old flagellum is only apparent, and due to the daughter-flagellum growing out at first in its sheath, from which it separates later (c/. Wenyon, 84). The division of the kinetonucleus follows hard on that of the blepharoplast, and next, as a rule, the trophonucleus divides. When the division of flagellum and nuclei is complete the body divides, begin- ning to do so at the flagellar end; the two sister-trypanosomes are often connected for a time by the posterior extremities. The division of the kinetonucleus is a simple constriction into two ; that of the trophonucleus is of a simple type, in which first the centriole and then the karyosome divides. The two daughter-karyosomes travel apart, and the nucleus follows suit. The two daughter-nuclei sometimes remain connected for a time by a long centrodesmose, which is finally severed. Such, at least, is the mode of division of the two nuclei as it has presented itseK to the majority of investigators, and the nuclear division of trypanosomes is to be regarded as amitotic, or at least not further advanced towards mitosis than that of Cocc/ta described above (p. 106, Fig. 51). According to Rosenbusch, however, the division of the nuclei, both trophic and kinetic, takes place by true mitosis. This author is in advance of his contemporaries upon this pomt, and his statements require independent confirmation before thev can be accepted unreservedly, since in objects of such minuteness, requiring delicate and elaborate technique, imagination may aU too readUy outrun perception. j <^ Life-History.—The transmission of trypanosomes from the blood of one vertebrate host to another is effected, probably for every species of these parasites, by the agency of a blood-sucking inverte- brate of some kind. Wlien the host is a terrestrial vertebrate the transmittmg agent is generally an insect, such as a mosquito or some bitmg fly or bug, or an ectoparasite of the host, such as a flea, louse, or possibly a tick in some cases ; the trypanosomes of aquatic vertebrates, on the other hand, are transmitted by leeches m all cases that have been investigated. Li addition to inoculative transmission (p. 24) of this kind, trypanosomes may pass directly from one vertebrate host to another during coitus ; this is known to occur in the case of the parasite of " dourine " in horses {T. equi- Verdum), and has been suspected, but not proved, to take place in ilTt Tt T' vertebrate to become infected by devouring animals containing living trypanosomes, 19