THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 101 nucleate individuals at the end of a longer or shorter vegetative existence during which it may have multiplied frequently by plasmotomy. The process of fission must now be considered m more detail, beginning mth— 1. Division of the Nucleus—As in the case of the cell-body as a whole, the division of the nucleus is effected in various ways. Probably the most primitive type is that in which the nucleus becomes resolved into chromidia, from which, again, secondary daughter-nuclei are reconstituted. This type of division may be termed " cliromidial fragmentation." It is of comparatively rare occurrence, but examples of it are found among Sarcodina and Sporozoa. In EcUno^oyxis two daughter-nuclei are formed in this way (Hertwig, 66, p. 8). In other cases numerous daughter-nuclei may arise, as in the formation of the nuclei of the microgametes in Coccidium (Fig. 50), where the parent nucleus gives o£E into the cytoplasm a fine dvist of chromidial particles which travel to the surface of the cell and become concentrated at a number of spots to form the daughter-nuclei. True nuclear division, in which the parent and daughter-nuclei retain throughout the process their individuality and distinctness from the cyto]3lasm, must be distinguished clearly from the above- mentioned process of chromidial fragmentation. In the vast majority of cases the nucleus divides into two halves by simple or binary fission, which, as already stated, may be repeated several times before cell-division takes place ; but in a few cases the nucleus divides simultaneously into a number of portions by multiple fission. In the cells of Metazoa true nuclear division alone occurs, and may follow one or the other of two sharply-marked types, termed comprehensively direct and indirect. In direct division the nucleus is constricted simply into two parts, without circumstance or ceremony. In indirect division, on the other hand, the nucleus goes through a complicated series of changes, following each other in a definite order and sequence, the whole process being known as karyokinesis or mitosis. In spite, however, of the intricate nature of karyokinetic division, and the variations in matters of detail that it exhibits in different cases, the whole process is perfectly uniform m its general plan, and admits of being described without difficulty in generalized terms. Such a description is found in every textbook of biology at the present time, and need not be repeated here ; it will be sufficient to analyze briefly the more important events that take place. In the process of karyokinesis, the achromatinic elements of the nucleus furnish the active mechanisms, while the chromatin-sub-