412 THE PROTOZOA united the Microsporidia witli the Myxosporidia into a single order —the Myxosporidia {sensu Za<ion)—wliich was divided by him into two suborders : Phaenocystes (= Myxosporidia se7isu stricliori) and Cryptocystes (= Microsporidia). Tliis classification is found in many textbooks ; but in view of the possession of polar capsules by other orders of the Cnidosporidia, it is more convenient to maintain the old order Microsporidia of Balbiani. The Microsporidia first attained an unenviable notoriety through the ravages caused by Nosema homhycis, tlie cause of " pebrine," or silkworm-disease ; hence the spores are often spoken of as " pebrine- corpuscles." The silkworm-disease was investigated by Pasteur, who found that the silkworms acquired the infection in two ways : first, by the contaminative metliod, by eating leaves contammated by the faeces of other infected caterpillars, and thus infecting themselves with the spores of the parasite byway of the digestive tract; secondly, by the so-called "hereditary" method—that is to say, tlirough the parasite penetrating into the ovaries and eggs of the female silkworm-moth, and, in the form of spores, remaining dormant in the egg through its embryonic development until the hatching of the caterpillar, which in tliis way is born infected Avith the disease. In contrast with tlae Myxosporidia, the Microsporidia are chiefly parasites of arthropods, especially insects, and are comparatively scarce in fishes, from which, however, a few species are knoAvn—■ e.g., Glugea stephani of tlie flounder, G. anomala of tlie stickleback, etc. Two species are known wliicli are parasitic in gregarines. No species of Microsporidia are known as yet from warm-blooded vertebrates, though tlieir occurrence in such hosts has often been alleged erroneously; for instance, Leishmania tropica (p. 316), para- site of Oriental Sore, was referred originally to the Microsporidia by Wright (581) under the name Helcosoma tropicum. In addition to Nosema homhycis already mentioned, other highly pathogenic species are known—Thelohania contejeani, cause of destructive epidemics amongst river-crayflshes in parts of France ; and Nosema apis, cause of the recent destructive epidemic among liive-bees in England {vide Fantham and Porter, P.Z.S., 1911, p. 625). As a general rule the parasites of this order are cell-parasites, which multiply and form their spores within cells, and the trophic phase of the parasite is typically minute and microscopic in size. Usually some particular tissue is attacked, but the pathogenic species owe their lethal powers to the fact that they infest all the tissues of the body. In a few cases, however, the parasites produce cysts of relatively large size, visible to the naked eye in the tissues of the host—as, for example, the species of the genus Glugea. The most marked effect of the parasites is to produce, in many cases, an extraordinary hypertrophy of the host-cell, and in par-