THE PROTOZOA 222 uninucleate amoeba, which reproduces itseH by binary fission of the ordinary type ; but large multinucleate forms occur which become encysted. Within the cyst the nuclei break up into chromidia, from which a great number of secondary nuclei are formed. The protoplasm becomes concentrated round the secondary nuclei to form a number of small cells, which acquire flageUa and are set free from the cyst as flagellulae, believed to be gametes and to copulate ; the zygote is at first encysted, but becomes free from the cyst, and develops into the uninucleate amoeba. The life-cycle of A. proteus is possibly of this type, since in this species also multinucleate amoebae are commonly observed (see especially Stole ; compare also Paramoeba (Fig. 49). Fig. 88.—Amceba diploidea. A, The amoeba in the vegetative condition, with its two nuclei; B—F, the sexual processes within the cyst, drawn in outline on a reduced scale ; B, two amcebaj, each with its two nuclei, encysted together, the nuclei beginning to give off chromidia ; 0, the two nuclei of each amoeba fused, numerous vegetative chromidia in the cytoplasm ; D, the bodies of the amoeba; fused, each synkaryon beginning its reduction-process ; E, the synkarya giving off reduction-nuclei which are degenerating ; F. the reduction- process complete ; the cyst contains a single amoeba with two nuclei (syn- karya), ready to emerge and begin its vegetative free life. After Nagler (95). Metcalf (257) describes " gemmules " budded from small free amcebss of the vroteus-tjve, each gemmule becoming detached and developing into a flagellated gamete of a cercomonad type. The flageUulae were observed frequently to lose their flagella and become amoeboid. Copulation of two fla^ellulEe took place to form an amoeboid zygote. Metcalf s observations uwn the syngamy in this case recaU strongly the observations of Jahn (294) on the sexual processes of Mycetozoa (p. 242). It is possible that the sjaigamy observed by him did not form a part of the life-cycle of the amosba, but of some other organism. . , , t • x The sexual process described by Nagler (95) m Amoeba diploidea is of a TPmarkible kind (Fie. 88). In the ordinary vegetative condition the ama3ba poresis L^^^^^^^^ nuclei, which divide simultaneously each tmxe the