THE MODES OF LIFE OF THE PROTOZOA 17 found amongst aquatic animals, and it can bo readily understood that a delicate protoplasmic organism could only pass from one host to another in a fluid medium, or by the help of special mechan- isms adapted to aerial transport or transmission by contact. It should be mentioned, however, that some human contagious skin- diseases arc suspected to be due to the agency of parasites of the nature of Protozoa.* Like the epizoic forms, there are many entozoic Protozoa which inhabit the bodies, and especially the intestines, of other animals, but Avhich are in no way to be regarded as parasites ; they feed merely on various substances to be found there, such as waste particles of food, excreted or faecal matter, or on other organisms, such as bacteria, yeasts, and the like—in short, on substances which from the point of view of the host are superfluous, or even harmful. Many examples of such organisms could be cited ; a good one is the common Ghlamydophrys stercorea, found in the faeces and digestive tract of man and many animals. The common intestinal flagellates belonging to the genus Trichomonas (Fig. 5) and other genera are, similarly, not to be regarded as true x^arasites in any sense of the word. The common Lophomonas blattarum (Fig. 45) from the intestuae of the cockroach feeds chiefly upon bacteria and yeasts. Many of these intestinal Protozoa are perhaps useful, rather than harmful, to their hosts. On the other hand, the vast majority of organisms. Protozoa or otherwise, that live in the interior of other living creatures are there for no good or useful purpose ; their habitat is alone sufficient to render them suspect. Two modes of parasitism may be distin- guished from a general point of view. On the one hand, the para site may merely intercept the food of the host and rob it of its sustenance. On the other hand, the parasite may nourish itself upon the living substance or vital fluids of its host. Organisms which rob the host of its food may do so in one of two ways. They may appropriate the raw food-material, which they then ingest and devour after the strictly holozoic method of feedint^ • examples of this mode of life are possibly to be found in the extensive nofusorian fauna to be found in the stomachs of ruminants Or they may absorb the fluid products of the digestion of the host by diffusion through the sm-face of the body of the parasite ; examples ot this mode of parasitism are to bo seen, probably, in the case of the Gregarmes so common in the guts of insects. Parasites of tho * For example the so-called Coccidioides immilis, a name given to bodies found in certain &outh Amencan skin diseases ; see Blanchard (033f p 1(S Molh so^ m con agu^sum has also been attributed to parasites referred by some to the Sozol "om e5"°thrrnrS^f^ ""-^^^ the^Karasi^e bodi st foi- toThe S amytJSl a contagiosum should probably be referred