THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 119 branches, cas it were, of the stem which culminates in the Metazoan type. An example of this is seen in the peculiar karyolcinesis of Nodiluca (Fig. G5), in which the division is directed by a large " sphere," consistmg of a mass of archoplasm containmg the cen- trioles. The sphere divides and forms the axis of the karyokinetic figure, of which the nuclear portion is placed asymmetrically to one side. In considering this remarkable process of evolution, consisting in the gradual elaboration of a highly complicated mechanism for division of the nucleus, the question naturally arises, What is the object of a process so elaborate ? Or, if this method of posing the problem oflEends as being too teleological, we may alter the plirase- ology, and inquire. What is the result of the process 1 The answer is perfectly obvious. The result egected by equating karyokinesis Fia. G5.—Stages in the nuclear division of Noctiluca miliaris. A, Early stage, the "sphere" (sph.) beginning to divide, the nucleus wrapping round it; B, later stage, the sphere nearly divided, the two poles of the nuclear spindle in section attached to the two daughter-spheres ; G, section across B; the sphere contains a centriole (c), to which the chromosomes (chr.) are attached by achromatic fibrils. After Calkins (48). in its most perfected forms is an exact halving, both quantitative and qualitative, of the chromatin-substance of the nucleus—quanti- tative, by division of each chromatin-granule or chromidiosome, and the partition of the division-products equally between the two daughter-cells ; qualitative also, if we suppose that different chro- midiosomes may have different properties, and exert their own peculiar influence on the life and activities of the cell; then, smce each daughter-cell contains finally the sister-chromidiosomes of those contained in the sister-cell, the qualities of its chromatin are the exact counterpart of those of the sister-cell and also of the original parent-cell. Hence karyokinesis may be regarded as insuring the transmission to the daughter-cells of the distinctive properties of the parent-cell, unimpaired and unaltered. The whole process indi- cates clearly the immense importance of the chromatin-substance