359 THE h.^:mosporidia The sporozoites introduced into the blood by the proboscis of a mosquito are minute active organisms of slender form (Fig. 156, XIX.). Each sporozoite attacks a red blood-corpuscle and pene- trates into it. Within the corpuscle it becomes a small, amoeboid trophozoite, which grows at the expense of the corpuscle (Fig. 156, I._V.). A characteristic feature of the young trophozoite is the possession of a large space—probably a vacuole—in the body, which gives the parasite an appearance which has been compared to a signet-ring. As the parasite grows, this space disappears and the body becomes compact. The characteristic pigment is formed within the body of the parasite at an early stage of its growth, and as it increases in size the pigment-grains become more numerous. When the parasite is full-grown it is a schizont, and proceeds to multiply by schizogony (Fig. 156, 6—10). The body becomes rounded by cessation of the amoeboid movement, and the nucleus, hitherto single, multiplies by repeated division. Then as many small daughter-uadividuals (merozoites) as there are nuclei are budded off round the Avhole periphery of the schizont, leaving at the centre a smaU quantity of residual protoplasm containing the pigment-grains ; this is the characteristic rosette-stage, or cor'ps en rosace. The corpuscle now disintegrates, setting free the merozoites. The three species of human malarial parasites are distinguished by differ- ences in their amoeboid activity, their effects on the corpuscles, the number of merozoites produced, and other points, but more especially by the time required for a complete schizogonous generation. Thus, in Plasmodium vivax the growth and multiplication of the schizont requires about forty-eight hours; in P. mcdarice, seventy-two hours; in P. falciparum, twenty-four hours or an irregular time. The attacks of fever produced by the parasites occur when the rosettes are breaking up and setting free the merozoites, probably because the disintegration of the body of the parasite sets free toxic substances contained in it. Hence in the tertian ague caused by P. vivax the fever returns every third day; in quartan ague of P. malarice, every fourth day; while P. falciparum causes irregular or quotidian fevers, more or less continuous. The schizogony of the tertian and quartan parasites proceeds in the peripheral blood, but that of the pernicious parasite takes place more generally in the internal organs. The amoeboid trophozoites present them- selves under the most varied forms in the corpuscles ; especialy noteworthy in the quartan parasite is the occurrence of hsemogregarine-like forms (BiUet,664). There is some doubt as to whether the trophozoites are in all cases within, or merely attached to, the corpuscles. Schaudinn (130) held at first the view that in all cases the parasites were intracellular, and that appearances tending to prove the contrary were the result of alterations due to manipulation in making preparations. It is nevertheless maintained by many authors that some stages, at least, of the parasites are attached to the corpuscles ; Halber- staedter and Prowazek, for example, believe that in P. pithed the trophozoites which develop into female sporonts are extracellular, whilst those which become schizonts are intracellular. Different species of hsBmamoebje differ also in the effects they produce on