270 THE PROTOZOA Suborder 2: HolomastigirM.—With numerous flagella radiating from a sphorical or approximately spherical body. This suborder contains the single genus Multicilia, Cienkowski, to which several species, some fresh-water, some marme, have been referred. The number of flagella varies in different species, and their precise relation to the nuclear apparatus remains to be made out. M. lacustris, Lauterborn (Fig. 113, A), is multinucleate ; M. palustris, Penard (Pig. 113, B), has a single nucleus. The body is not covered by a cuticle, and may throw out pseudo- podia, or even become amoeboid (Lauterborn). Nothing is known of the life-cycle, but in M. lacustris Lauterborn observed reproduction by simple fission (plasmotomy ?). In the present state of our knowledge adequate data are lacking for discussion of the aflBnities of this genus. Doflein (7) regards it as a form lying at the root of the Infusorian stem, and derives the most primitive Ciliata from a form similar to Multicilia, in which the numerous flagella become specialized in structure and movement to give rise to an even coat of cilia; Penard (302), on the other hand, considers Multicilia allied to the Heliozoa (p. 249). It is clear that the genus is one which would repay further study. Okder II.: Protomonadina.—Flagellates for the most part of small or minute size ; with a single flagellum ; or with a principal and one or two acces- sory flagella ; or with two flagella, one directed anteriorly, the other pos- teriorly as a trailing flagellum. Nutrition holozoic, saprophytic, or parasitic ; in the first case the food-particles are ingested at the base of the flagellum, where a definite mouth-opening may be present or absent, but without a distinct oesophagus in any case. The contractile vacuole is generally single, if present, and empties itself direct to the exterior. This order comprises a vast assemblage of genera and species, subdivided by Doflein into eight families, one of which, the Trypanosomidce, including the important parasitic genus Trypanosoma, is discussed in detail in the next chapter. The cuticle is generally thin, and the body is often capable of amoeboid or metabolic movements; if amoeboid, however, the flagellum is the organ of locomotion, so long as it is present, and not the pseudopodia. The relations of the flageUum to the nuclear apparatus are, in general, of the second type (p. 263), according to Hartmann and Chagas (62)—that is to say, with distinct centrosome and blepharoplast; but it is extremely probable that in the simpler forms Type 1 occurs also (compare Alexeieff, 327), and in the Trypanosomidce the distinctive feature is the possession of Type 3, with trophonucleus and kinetonucleus, as also in some of the BodonidoB {Proioa- zelcia). The life-cycle of the free-living forms is probably in general of a simple type, similar to that described above in Copromonas (Fig. Ill); but observations on the sexual processes are at present very scanty. For a detailed description of the forms included in this order the reader must be referred to the larger treatises, especially Biitschli (2) and Senn (320); it must suffice here to mention some of the more typical forms. Gercomonas, type of the family Cercomonadidce (Fig. 114), has a single flagellum ; the hmder end is frequently drawn out into a long tail-like process, and is capable of change of form. (Ecomonas {Oikomonas) differs in having the body rounded. Monas, type of the family Monadidce, has a principal flageUum and one or two accessory flagella. Cladomonas and Spongomonas (Figs. 41, 42) form arborescent colonies; the constituent monads have two flageUa of equal size, both dkected forwards. Alexeieff (327) considers that the Monadidce should be placed in the suborder Chrysomonadina (see below). Bodo (Fig. 115), type of the family Bodonidce, has two flageUa, one directed forwards, the other backwards as a trailmg flagellum; the species of this genus are free-swimming and do not form colonies; they occur both free- livinc^ and parasitic, for the most part in the digestive tracts of various animals. Bodolacertoe, from the cloaca of Lacerta spp., has been studied by Prowazek (354) who has described a process of autogamy, but doubt has been cast upon his observations by Dobell (333). Note also the O3curro;io3 oE ^oio- iko forms in the developmsnb of GryptoMffl'^jia (p. 230, snpm). The flagellar