THE PROTOZOA 4B4 that the ancestor was Amoeba proteus or Cercomonas crassicauda but only that it was a form such that, if it existed at the present day, It would be referred by its characters to the genus Amoeba or Cercomonas, as the case miglit be. The data for drawing phylogenetic conclusions in Protozoa con- sist entirely of comparisons between the structure and life-history of the various existing forms. Paleontology gives no assistance since only skeletons are preserved as fossils. All that can be learned from the geological record is that the differentiation of the main groups must have taken place at an immeasurably remote period of the earth's history, since skeletons of Foraminifera and Radiolaria—groups of which the structure and life-history indicate a long pedigree—are found in the earliest fossiliferous strata. It is little wonder, therefore, that the phylogeny of the Protozoa is a subject on which the most opposite opinions are held, as is apparent from the classificatory systems cited above. There can be no finality in a phylogenetic theory, nor, consequently, in any scheme of classification put forward. Both the one and the other express merely the state of current knowledge, and may be expected to undergo modification as knowledge advances. It is impossible to discuss here at length the phylogeny and classification of the Protozoa, and only a few guiding prmciples can be put forward. From a general survey of the phylum, it may be claimed fixst of all that the Protozoa constitute a compact group with definite characters, not a mere receptacle into which can be put anything and everything of microscopic dimensions which is not a bacterium, a fungus, or a parasitic worm, as some writers seem to think. Common to all Protozoa in at least the principal stages of the life-cycle is the differentiation of the body into distinct nucleus and cytoplasm—that is to say, the possession of that type of organization to which I have proposed to restrict the appUcation of the term cell. Doubtless there are, or have been, transitions from this type to the simpler grade of organization characteristic of the bacteria and allied organisms, but such transitions must be sought for outside the phylum Protozoa. The essential unity and homogeneity underlying the innumerable differentiations of form and structure in the Protozoa may be taken to mean that the phylum as a whole is descended from a common ancestral form, and the first problem is, then, to attempt to form some notion of what the ancestor was like. In dealing with the more specialized forms, such as those constituting the Infusoria or the two principal subdivisions of the Sporozoa, it has been pointed out that each group appears to be derived either from flagellate or sarcodine ancestors. In reviewing the Mastigophora and Sarcodina, it was further pointed out that, greatly as the typical representa-