THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 107 division is a very common one in the nuclei of Protozoa, and may show a further advance towards a true mitosis in that the peri- pheral chromatin may shape itself into more or less definite chromosomes, as in Euglena. Examples of granular nuclei which divide in the direct method arc seen m the division of the nucleus of the oocyst of Coccidium (Fig. 52) to form the nuclei of the sporoblasts (see p. 349, infra) and in the corresponding divisions of the nuclei of hfemogregarines (Fig. 53). In these two cases the presence of a centriole in the nucleus is doubtful, but is affirmed by Hartmann and Chagas (89) for hsemo- gregarines ; a true nuclear membrane. Fig. 53.—Direct division of the nucleus in the zygote of Hcemogregarina stepanowi. 3 , Degenerating male elements attached to the zygote ; N., divid- ing nucleus of the zygote, two successive stages (A and B). After Reichenow (78). C.V.- however, appears to be absent, and this form of division is not much advanced beyond the condition of chromidial frag- mentation. In the macronucleus of Infusoria (Fig. 54), in which a distinct membrane is present, the division is also direct, and centrioles are stated to be absent as a general rule ; in some cases, however, true centrioles appear to be present (Nagler). When centrioles are absent, the achromatinic framework of the nucleus appears to be principally active in the division. In some cases the division of the macronucleus of Infusoria is not into two equal halves, but may take the form of budding ofE a smaller daughter-nucleus from the main mass. Remark- able instances of nuclear budding of this kind are seen in the Acinetaria, where it is related to the formation of buds by the parent individual. In some cases (Fig. 55), the nucleus may form a con- FiG. 54.—Paramecium cauda- tum : division showing the macronucleus (N) dividing without mitosis, the micro- nucleus (n) dividing mito- tically. c.v.^, Old, and c.v.^, new, contractile vacuoles. After Biitschli and Sclie- wiakofE, in Lcuckart and Nitsche's Zoologische Wa7id- tafeln, No. Ixv.