^ THE PROTOZOA growth of the central part of the scopula on a prolongation of the bodv- ^rnt^'J!/''''' -'J * l?^^fipJieral rmg of scopular rods surrounding a central protoplasmic cord, which furnishes the contractile muscular stalk i-iie mouth and cytopharynx, whether capable of being closed, as in the Uyinnostomata, or permanently open, as in other forms, constitute together a conspicuous organ in the holozoic Ciliata, sometimes showing remarakble atlaptations to special modes of feeding. In the gymnostomatous genus Vidinium the cytopharynx contains a pccuhar tongue-like organ, a prolonga- tion of the endoplasm, which shows a longitudinal striation due to the presence ot hne rods— tnchites." The tongue of Didinium is Used for capturing prey consisting chiefly of Paramecium and other Ciliata, and the manner in which It is used recaUs the tongue of a chameleon. If the Didinium comes into contact with its prey, the tongue is shot out by a violent contraction of the pharynx, and adheres to the victim, which, according to Then, is killed in- stantly ; but according to Mast larger Ciliata sometimes escape, and in doing so may break off and carry away the tongue of the Didinium. A Paramecium when thus attacked emits a cloud of trichocysts, but none are discharged by the Didinium. The prey when mastered is drawn into the endoplasm by the retraction of the tongue. The recently-described genera Proboscidium and Gymnozoum (Meunier) possess similar organs. The hymenostomatous genus Pleuronema and allied forms are remarkable for the huge size of the un- dulatuig membrane (Fig. 27). The animal, after swimmmg freely for a time, comes to rest, with its body-cilia sticking out stiff and straight; the midulating membrane is then protruded from the mouth, and by its active movements serves to waft food-particles into the pharynx. The peristome, or region round the mouth, exhibits a wide range of special adaptations in relation to the fmiction of food-capture, as is apparent from the classification given above. Absent or scarcely developed, as a rule, in the Gymnostomata, in tho Hymenostomata it has the form, usually, of a simple groove Icadmg to the mouth (Fig. 185, P.); in the Spirigera, on the other hand, it is generally disc-like, bearing the adoral zone which terminates in the mouth ; the extreme type of complication is seen in the Peritricha, where the peristomial disc can be contracted completely over the mouth by means of circular myonemes situated in the margin of the disc like a sphincter (see below), while a central fmmel-shaped portion is prolonged inwards, with the mouth at its extremity to form the vestibule, in a manner analogous to the stomodajum of the Metazoa. The adoral ciliary spiral may consist simply of longer cilia, more powerful than those of the general body-covering, the most primitive condition; or of transversely-planted, comb-like mem- branellae or " pectineUse," the usual arrangement in Heterotricha and Hypo- trieha ; or of a pair of undulatmg membranes running parallel to one another in the spiral, as in Peritricha. These various structures, seen in optical section in the living state, have often produced erroneous impressions of bristles, cirri, etc. The adoral spiral varies greatly in extent, and the peristomial region shows numerous modifications which cannot be described or sum- marized briefly; the reader must be referred to the beautiful descriptions of Schroder (864-867), amongst recent witers. In the remarkable peritrichous form Opercularia (Cochlearia) faurei, the adoral spiral takes five complete turns, running like a screw romid a sort of retractile proboscis (Collin, 832). The ciliary apparatus and its modifications (Fig. 186) have been the subject of much mmute and detailed study; among recent investigators must bo mentioned especially Maier (73) and Schuberg (44). The body-cilia run in rows with a meridional, spiral, or other arrangement; they arise in depressions of the body-surface which have usually the form of furrows, but in some cases {Paramecium, Frontonia) each cilium arises from the centre of a small depressed area of the surface. In Paramecium the areas are for the most part hexagonal in form, but in places they are rhombic (c/. Ivliainsky, 170-5). The points of the trichocysts are situated in the angles of the polygons, and also in the broader edges between the areas in each row. i r +i Each cilium takes origin from a basal granule situated at the level of tlie