177 POLYxMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES B. Life-Cycles. In the foregoing section the various forms have been described under which one and the same species of Protozoon may occur in the course of its hfe-history, and in response to the conditions of its particular mode of hfe. In some species it has been seen that the changes of form and structure are so shght that the species are practically monomorphic, in the sense that they can be identified without difficulty in any active phase of hfe ; no species is absolutely monomorphic, since, in addition to resting states, differences in size due to gro^vth, at least, will always be found. Other species, on the other hand, are polymorphic to such an extent that their specific identity in different phases can only be determined by tracing their development in a continuous sequence; and in extreme cases of polymorphism the life-history becomes a varied pageant of dis- similar forms succeeding each other in more or less regular order, determined largely, if not entirely, by the conditions of the environ- ment. In a former chapter the distinction has been drawn between a developmental cycle, consisting of a recurrent series of different forms, and the complete Hfe-cycle, consisting of the whole series of forms or phases which appear between one act of syngamy and the next. The complete hfe-cycle may comprise many develop- mental cycles. As a concrete example of a hfe-cycle comprising a great number of different forms, and in which also the development may follow more than one course, the hfe-cycle of Arcella vulgaris may be selected pig. 80). The hfe-history of this form has now been made known m detail by the combined labours of many investigators, amongst whom Hertwig (65), Elpatiewsky (144), Swarczewsky (101) and Khamsky (145), must be speciaUy mentioned. The form which may be taken as the starting-point of the hfe- cycle is a minute, amoeba-hke form, with a single nucleus (Fig 80 A) The amcBbula, when set free, feeds, grows, and becomes aft^r a time spherical m form with radiate pseudopodia (Fig 80 B) ■ in this stage it resembles a species of the genus Nuclearia. Mtev a time the A^^cZeana-form secretes a shell, and now resembles an example of the genus PseudocMamys (Fig. 80, C). With further growth chromidia are given off from the nucleus into the cytoplasm, the ch rt ^ 'J^^' -i-al thus assumes^duali; the chitinous shell, circular in outline, flattened in profile-view and shgh ]y eoncave on the under-side, in the centre of which is a We ZT:rTT' "'^^^ pseudopodia stream out The body-protoplasm contains two nuclei situated approximately at 12