THE PROTOZOA I^inin framework as different in any essential point from the alveolar framework of the genera] protoplasm, with which, in nuclei tliat Jack a true membrane, it is perfectly continuous. Hertwig (66) regards the cytoplasmic framework as achromatinic substance in intimate combination with chromatin ; the nuclear framework, on the other hand, as pure achromatinic substance (linin) from which the chromatin has become separated out and organized into special structures, independent of the framework m which they are lodged Similarly, the nuclear sap filling the nuclear space and the inter- stices of the reticulum must be identified with the enchylema of the body-protoplasm. As compared with the alveolar structure of the general protoplasm, that of the acliromatinic nuclear frame- work IS characterized chiefly by the larger size of the alveoli, and, consequently, the greater distinctness of the apparent reticular structure. A true nuclear membrane, when present, is probably formed in all cases from the achromatinic framework. In the nuclei of Actino- sphcerium, according to Hertwig (64), the membrane is a super- ficial condensation of the acliromatinic reticulum. The membrane may attain to a considerable thickness and appear doubly-con- toured in optical section, separating the nuclear framework com- pletely from the extranuclear protoplasm ; but it is always a structure very readily absorbed and re-formed, and it appears to present no obstacle to the passage of substance from the nucleus into the cytoplasm, or vice versa. Awerinzew (47), on the other hand, regards the nuclear membrane as a product of the cytoplasm. In addition to the achromatinic framework, plastm is commonly, if not invariably, present in the form of masses or bodies which receive different names, according as they consist of pure plastrn or of plastin impregnated to a greater or less extent with chromatin. In the vesicular type of nucleus, the endosome may perhaps consist, in some cases, of pure chromatin, but in most cases, if not always, it is composed of a matrix or ground-substance of plastin in which the chromatin is lodged. An endosome of this kind is termed a karyosome, or chromatin-nucleolus ; as a rule it has the form of a rounded mass, occupying the centre of the nucleus, sometimes of more than one such mass, but in a few cases it may have the form of a crescent or cap (" calotte ") closely apjDlied to the nuclear mem- brane. In the granular type of nucleus, on the other hand, there may be one or more masses of pure plastin containing no clu'omatin ; such a body is termed a nucleolus simply, or a " plastin-nucleolus." In the nuclei of the tissue-cells of Metazoa, true nucleoli occur almost invariably ; in the nuclei of Protozoa, however, pure plastin- nucleoli are not of common occurrence, but have been described in a few instances—^for example, in the hoemogregarine-nucleus