210 THE PROTOZOA described may be phenomena of agglomeration associated with a similar condition. In Radiolaria, Borgert (152) describes fatty degeneration affecting the nucleus as well as the protoplasm, both endoplasm and ectoplasm. The nucleus becomes converted entirely into a vesicle filled with a mass of fat- globules, or into a number of such vesicles. In Tocoplirya guadripartita subjected to starvation, after the refringent bodies (p. 458) have been absorbed, the nucleus becomes modified in structure, the tentacles are retracted, active budding takes place, and with the last bud formed the nucleus disappears and the remaining protoplasm dies away. From a consideration of the various examples of degeneration from different causes, it appears that the first part to be affected is always the nucleus, and that the other derangements of the structure and functions of the body are secondary consequences of an abnormal condition of the nucleus. The regeneration of lost parts of the cell-body of Protozoa has been the subject of experiment by a great number of investigators. The methods employed have consisted mainly in mutilating the body or cutting it up in'o a number of pieces, in order to find out to what extent the fragments possess the power of regenerating the lost parts. The experiments have led to one very definite result, which can be expressed briefly : no separate part of the body is capable of continuing its vital activities indefinitely, or of regenera- ting any of the deficiencies in the structure of the body, if it does not contain the nucleus or a portion of the nucleus. Non-nucleated fragments may continue to live for a certain time ; in the case of amoeba such fragments may emit pseudopodia, the contractile vacuole continues to pulsate, and acts of ingestion or digestion of food that have begun may continue ; but the power of initiating the capture and digestion of food ceases, consequently, all growth is at an end, and sooner or later all non-nucleate fragments or " enucleated bodies die off. A Polystomella which possesses a nucleus can repair breakages to the shell; an individual deprived of its nucleus cannot do so (Verwom). On the other hand, an isolated nucleus, deprived of all protoplasm, dies off ; but a smaU quantity of protoplasm containmg the nucleus or a part of it is able in some cases to regenerate the whole body, and to produce a complete individual of small size. In experiments on regeneration the CiUata are the objects of choice ; their complicated structure permits the regeneration that has taken place to be estimated accurately ; their size renders the mutilation more easy to perform ; and the large size and frequently extended form of the nucleus makes it possible to divide up this body also. In recent experiments Lewm (171) has succeeded in dividing Paramecium into a number of fragments ( mero- zoa"), containing each a portion of the macronucleus. Only one of the merozoa obtained in this manner contains the micronucleus which is too mSute to be divided by a mechanical operation. Except when the Paramecncm was in process of division, only one merozoon recovered the normal body^ f^rm and proceeded to divide ; and the interestmg result was obtamed that