361 THE H.EMOSPORIDIA the corpuscles. An effect commonly seen is the so-called " stippling" (Tiipfekmg) of the corpuscles, which exliibit a dotted appearance (Schiiffner's dots). The merozoites, wlien set free, penetrate into other corpuscles, and become in their turn trophozoites, which may either groAV into schizonts again and repeat the process of multiplication by scliizogony, or may grow into sporonts. As in Coccidia, a number of generations of schizogony succeed each other before sporonts are produced. At first the parasites are not sufficiently numerous to be perceptible in the blood or to evoke febrile symptoms, and during this, the so-called " incubation-period," schizogony alone occurs, in all probability ; but when the numbers of the parasite are sufficient to affect the health of the host, the reaction of the host agamst the parasite probably stimulates the production of the propagative phases. The trophozoites which grow into sporonts Fig. 156 continued : disappears; in 6 the parasite is full-grown and its nucleus is beginning to divide. 7, 8, Progress of the nuclear divisions, complete in 8. 9, Division of the body of the parasite to form the merozoites ; the blood-corpuscle beginning to degenerate. 10, The parasite has divided up into sixteen mero- zoites, leaving the pigment-grains in a small quantity of residual protoplasm ; the corpuscle has completely disappeared and the merozoites are set free. VI., Vila., VII&., Formation of the gametocytes of pernicious malaria (Plasmodium falciparum) ; the gametocjrtes arise from the intracoriniscular parasites by a series of stages similar to those represented in II.—V., but ivithout a vacuole in the body. In P. falciparum the ripe gametoc3rtes have the form of crescents, as shown, but in the tertian and quartan parasites the gametocytes are simply rounded, as VIII«. and VIII6. Vila., Male crescent with larger nucleus and scattered pigment ; VII6., female crescent, with a smaller nucleus and the pigment more concentrated round it. (N.B.—Vila, and VII6. are drawn on too small a scale ; the crescent should be as large as XIII.) ^ VIII.—XIII., Stages of the sexual generation of the tertian parasite in the stomach of the mosquito, after Schaudinn. a, Male forms; 6, female forms. (In pernicious malaria the crescents roimd themselves off, become free from the corpuscle, and assume forms similar to VIII. a and &.) VIII., Rounded-off parasites free from' the corpuscle. IX., Gamete-forma- tion ; m a the nucleus is divided into eight; in h the nucleus has passed to the surface of the body. X., Further stage ; in a the body of the gametocyte IS throwing off the long slender microgametes, one of which is represented free ; m 6 the nucleus is dividing to throw off a reduction-nucleus. XI Process of syngamy ; a male gamete is seen penetrating the body of a female gamete. XII., Zygote shortly after fertilization ; the body is growing out and becoming vermiform, with the synkaryon at the hinder end ; male and temale chromatin stdl distinct; near the zygote is seen a clump of degenerating microgametes. XIII., Motile ookinete formed from the zygote f the svn- ka^on with male and female chromatin still distinct, is seen near the middle ot the body; the pigment-grains are at the hinder end of the body whence they are soon rejected. ^ f.o?^^k"'^y"-^''i^I''''i?^''''T\ The ookinete (XIII.) pene- trates the stomach-wall and becomes encysted (XIV.); its nuclei multiply Wo f iif lyorma a number of sporoblasts so called (XVI.); in each sporo- b ast the nucleus divides to form a great number of small nuclei, which grow out in tongue-hke processes from the surface to form the sporozoitcs (XVII.) • Ssid7al S.'^r sporozoitcs with a certain amount of residual protoplasm ; the sporozoitcs when set free (XIX.) pass into the vcStf agat. '