451 THE INFUSORIA ably owing to the fact that under natural coiiditions only a very small propor- tion of the young parasites succeed in establishing themselves on a fish, and consequently the infectious produced are so slight that they are overlooked, and the fish is miharmed. The life-c3'cle of Ichthyo'phtliirms is as follows : The youngest parasites hatched out from a cyst are very small, and have a macronucleus and a micro- nucleus. They seek out a fish and bore into its epidermic', attaching them- selves by one end of the club-shaped body and rotating actively, with the result that epithelial ccUs are displaced, and either cast off into the water or form a ring-like wall round the parasite. In this way the infusorian works its way gradually into the deeper layers of the epidermis, which closes over it, so that the parasite lies finally in a closed hollow space in the epidermis. In this position it grows in size, and at a certain point the micronucleus disappears, passing into the macronucleus to form a nucleolus like body within it. The parasite appears to the naked eye as a little white spot on the skin, occurring on any part of the body-surface or on the gills. It retains its cilia, and can be seen rotating within the cavity in which it lies. The full-grown Ichthyophthirius may reach 1 milhmetre in diameter, but is usually less, about 0-75 millimetre. When full-grown the cihate breaks out of the cavity in the epidermis and sinks to the bottom, attaching itself to the ground or to water-weeds, and becomes encysted. Within the cyst it multi- phes by bmary fission repeated eight times, producing 256 small eiliates; sometimes this multiplication takes place without encystment. Durmg this process of multiplication the micronucleus reappears, being extruded from the macronucleus of each individual when not less than four are present in the cyst; but the exact period at which the micronucloi appear varies in dilierent cases. In addition to the micronucleus, one or two other extrusions from the macronucleus take place (Buschkiel); but whether these represent other micronuclei or expeUed vegetative chromatin is not clear; in any case they degenerate and disappear. When the micronucleus makes its appearance. It divides by mitosis at each division of the cell-body, as in ordinary Oihata, macronucleus divides in the usual way by direct division. When the full number of tmy eiliates is formed, each with a macro- nucleus and micronucleus, sexual phenomena occur, but the events that ^ke place are deseribed differently by different investigators. According To fZl'^'T f ifidividual the micronucleus divides twice, and T produced degenerate ; the fourth then divides ?Sto?other ??Wn"^^^^^^^^ according to this account, similar to tfiatot other Cihata, and the orgamsm appears to be ready for coniugation n ^.P'wf'' ^ Nejesheimer was unable to observe e JnjugatJSS place either m the cyst or after the organisms have become free • he observed however, sometimes two micronuclei,%ometimes one, both i^free formsTnd m those attached to the fish, and from this it was inferred Sat the two nro nuclei fuse autogamously, leavmg the possibibty open SwevL tharS" that thfbmodl iT M-fown parasite leaves the fish to the time -^rSSi^^rF—^^^^^ as Tn^orlr ATomak^'S^ sometimes classified group, like ottrsTounded .^'''^''^' ^'^^^ doubt this of foSis i^ SthrchaicrrS!!'^' characters, is a heterogeneous collection wnicn tne characters thoy possess in common are due to convergent