THE NEOSPORIDIA 427 nuclear bodies," round masses larger than the nucleus, and stammg very in- tensely witli nuclear stains. The parasite occurs between the basal membrane and the epithelium, or in the epithelial cells, or occasionally free m the lumen of the cfficum. Multiplication appears to take place by longitudmal hssion. No other stages are known. Gastwcystis gilruthi, Chatton (819), is a parasite of sheep and goats dis- covered by Gilruth in Australia, but of common occurrence in Europe. Ihe parasite appears as a cyst, visible to the naked eye, in the mucous membrane of the stomach. The cyst has an envelope formed by a single cell with a large nucleus ; the envelope is concentrically striated, and bears externally a fur of short, stiff, bristle-hko processes, recalling the covering of Myxidmm ■ lieberkiihni, Mrjxocijstis, and Sarcosporidia. The younger cysts contain a Plasmodium with a vast number of nuclei, some of them in groups of two, three, four, and so on up to a large number, which are then arranged in a single layer en- closing a blastula-like sphere or blastophore. The blastophore becomes separated off from the interstitial protoplasm of the Plasmodium, and each nucleus grows out from the surface in a tongue-like process to form a cluster of sporozoite-like bodies or germs in a manner very similar to the sporulation of a malarial parasite or of Porospora or Aggregata. The ripe cyst is full of an enormous number of these germs (Pig. 179), each of which is a fusiform body, aboixt 10 M in length, with one end pointed and terminating in a rostrum, the other blunter. Near the blunt end is a large nucleus, and at about the middle of the body is a deeply-staining mass resembling a separate karyosome or a kmetonucleus. The surface of the germ is clothed by a deHcate pellicle. The germs are set free from the cyst by dehiscence. The affinities of Gastwcystis remain for the present quite uncertain. Negre reports the occurrence of a similar cyst in the duodenum of a mouse of which the faaces infected other mice with sarcosporidiosis (see p. 421), and suggests that Gastwcystis may be a stage in the development of Sarcosporidia. Pansporella perplexa, Chatton (818), is a parasite of the intestine of Daphnia spp., occurring in the form of amceboid bodies, reaching SO in diameter, adherent, but not permanently attached, to the epithelium of the intestinal wall. The amceboid movement may be active, but does not serve for food- capture, since nutrition is effected by the osmotic method. The cytoplasm is divided into hyaline ectoplasm and granular endoplasm containing a single large nucleus in which the karyosome has the form of one or two caps adherent to the nuclear membrane. The amoeboid phase does not multiply by fission, but becomes encysted, and then the nucleus divides repeatedly until a large number of small nuclei arc present. The body then becomes divided into a number of spores, each containing eight nuclei, of which six degenerate, so that the ripe spore is binucleate. Germination of the spore sots free a binucleate amcebula which divides, apparently, into two, each of which has Fig. 178.—Lymphocystis johnstonei: section though one of the parasites lying in the mesentery. N., The large nucleus of the parasite ; chr., the ring of chromidia ; l.s., lymph - space ; I., layer of lymphocytes adherent to the parasite. After Woodcock (824), magnified 45 diameters.