389 THE H^MOSPORIDIA than the other Telosporiclia, are allied specially to the Hneraoflagellates, more so than to other FIa<?ollata ; whether, in short, tlio Hacmosporidia should bo removed from the Telosporidia altogether, and should bo classified, together with the Hwmoflagellates, in one natural order, family, or other systematic category. In dealing with the Hitmofiagellates in a previous chapter, cause was shown for believing them to have two distinct lines of ancestry, the one from a Cercomonad, the other from a Bodonid type of Flagellate; in that case it is the Cercomonad section—that is to say, the trypanosomes and their allies—to which the H^mosporidia must be considered to be specially related on the theory now to be discussed. Leger and Duboscq (646), recognizing distinct Bodonid and Cercomonad stems in the Hffimoflagcllates, derive the Gregarines, Coccidia, and Hsemo- gregarines, from the Bodonid stem (trypanoplasms), the Haemamoeba3 and Piroplasms from the Cercomonad (trypanosome) type. The close relationship of the Hsemosporidia and the Coccidia seems at first sight so obvious,from a general consideration of the life-histories of typical members of each group, that any theory to the contrary must justify itself by convmcing and cogent argu- ments. The chief grounds upon which affinities between Hiemo- sporidia and Haemoflagellates are alleged are found, when analyzed, to be of three kmds—namely : first, developmental data ; secondly, structural—that is to say, mainly cytological—peculiarities ; thirdly, resemblances between certain forms which appear to be sufficiently close to Imk the two groups together by a series of gradual transitions. The evidences of affijiity between Hsemosporidia and Haemoflagellates based on these three classes of facts must be considered separately. 1. Developmenial Data.—Begiiming with the first of the five types of Hfemosporidia which have been recognized above—namely, the hfemamcebse or malarial parasites, it is very evident, as Schaudiim (658) first pointed out, that their life-cycle resembles in the closest manner that of the Coccidia. With one exception, every phase in the life-cycle of a malarial parasite has a corresponding phase in that of a coccidian, and the same terminology can be used throughout for describing the stages of the development; the one ex- ception to this statement—the only phase that requires a special name—is the ookinote-stage of the malarial parasites, which is not known to occur in any coccidian. It is clear, however, that the points in which the life- cycles differ from one another in the two cases are such as can be correlated with the differences in the mode of parasitism—that is to say, with Ihe fact that in Coccidia, speaking generally, there is a single host, and the mode of infection is contaminative, while in the hamamasbse there are two hosts, and the vertebrate is infected by the inoculative method. Corresponding with this difference, the zygote in the Coccidia prepares at once for leaving the body of the host and passing out into the open, and protects itself by a farm envelope ; while that of the hajmamcebse, produced in the body of an intermediate host, does not encyst itself, but is actively parasitic, continuing to absorb nourishment from the host and to grow. Further, in the htemamoebjE the parasite is always in the body of one or the other of its two hosts, and consequently tough, impervious cysts and spores like those of Coccidia are superfluous and are never formed ; the oocyst is a thin membrane through which soluble foodstuffs can diffuse, and sporocysts are not secreted, as is the case also in some Coccidia. The adaptive significance of these differences is so obvious that it does not require further elucidation or discussion. Ihe development of the halteridium-type, as described by Aragao, can be