220 THE PROTOZOA At the present time the life-history has been worked out satisfac- torily m but few free-hving amoebae, but in such protean organisms it IS quite unsafe to attempt to characterize or define a species without a knowledge of the whole life-cycle. As regards the familiar Amoeba proteus, for example, practically all that is known of its life-cycle is that it encysts and multiplies within the cyst to form a great number of small amoebulae, very different in appear- ance from the parent-organism ; the amoebulee creep out of the cyst, and probably grow up into the adult form (Scheel). Calkins adduces arguments in favour of the occurrence of a sexual cycle, which remains at present, however, purely conjectural. The majority of free-Hving amoebae are aquatic in habitat. A certain number, however, are semi-terrestrial, inhabiting damp earth, moss, etc. Such is Amoeba terricola {vide Grosse-AUermann). The " earth-amoebae," like other terricolous Protozoa, probably play a great part in keeping down the numbers of the bacteria and other organisms in the soil, and thereby lessening its fertility from an agricultural standpoint (compare Russell and Hutchinson, 24 ; Goodey, 16). A great many species of amoebae are found living within the bo:!ies of animals of all kinds, for the most part in the digestive tract. The entozoic amoebae are commonly placed in a distinct genus, Entamoeba, distinguished from the free-living forms by little, however, except their habitat and the general (but not invariable) absence of a contractile vacuole. A common example is Entamoeba blattce, from the intestine of the common cockroach ; others are E. ranarum of the frog (Dobell, 236, 237) ; E. muris of the mouse (Wenyon) ; the species parasitic in the human intestine, presently to be mentioned ; E. buccalis (Prowazek), from the human mouth ; and many others. Chatton has described a species, Amoeba mu- cicola, ectoparasitic on the gills of Labridce, and extremely patho- genic to its host. Life-History.—So far as it is possible to generalize from the scanty data available at present, the development of many free-living species of amoebae appears to be of a type very similar to that of Arcella, described in a previous chapter (p. 179). In the free state the organisms reproduce themselves in two ways : first, " vegeta- tively," by simple binary fission, preceded by a division of the nucleus, which varies n different cases from a promitosis (p. 109) of the simplest type to very perfect mitosis ; secondly, by forma- tion of chromidia and subsequently of secondary nuclei, round which the cytoplasm becomes concentrated to form a number of internal buds, destined to be set free as amoebulae, agametes, which grow up into the adult form. In addition to these two methods of reproduction in the free state, the animal may become encysted,