THE NEOSPORIDIA 401 According to Avvorinzow (760), in Myxidium sp. a propagative cell may give rise sometimes to a single spore, as in Ceratomym, ^ other cases to three spores; this must doubtless bo interpreted to moan that a propagative cell may become a sporoblast without entering into association with another propagative cell, and that in other cases three propagative ce Is may iorm an association; these variations present an analogy with the sohtary encyst- ment or triple associations of gregarines (p. 331). The process of syngamy in these parasites has been described as being a process of autogamy, but whether it is so or not depends entirely upon the manner in which the Plasmodium arises; if a single, uninucleate amcebula becomes a plasmodium by growth accompanied by nuclear multiplication, then the sexual process is a case of autogamy; but if, as is more likely, two or more distinct amcebulo3 become associated to form a plasmodium, then the two nuclei of the gametoeytes in Disporea, of the " pansporoblast of Polysporea, may well be of distinct parentage, and in that case the sexual process is not autogamous. Comparing the different modes of spore-formation, it is seen that in all cases alike the spore arises from a sporoblast which divides into several cells : two to form the sporocyst, which consists of two distinct valves meeting in a suture, and thus defining a sutural plane in the spore ; two (or four in GUoromyxidcB) to form the polar capsules ; and a fifth to furnish the bmucleate sporozoite. The spores of Myxosporidia have, as has been seen, a complex structure, and are highly characteristic bodies—the original psoro- sperms of Johannes Miiller. In minor details of form and structure they vary enormously in different species. The greatest diameter of the spore may lie in the sutural plane, as in Polysporea generally, or in a plane at right angles to it, as in Disporea (Fig. 169). The sporocyst may be prolonged into tails and processes of various kinds ; the polar capsules may be close together at one pole of the spore, or at opposite poles. In all cases, so far as is known, the spores germinate in the intestine of the new host, which becomes infected casually by taking in the spores with its food. Other methods of infection have been imagined, but have never been demonstrated experimentally. The most complete account of the germination of the spore and of the early development of the parasite in its new host is that given by Auerbach (758) for Myxidium bergense, parasite of the gall-bladder of Oadus virens. The spores from the gaU-bladder pass through the rectum to the exterior. To develop further, they must be taken up by the new host, in the stomach of which, however, the spores undergo very little change ; the sporozoite rounds itself off, and in some eases its nuclei copulate, in others they remain apart. From the stomach the spores pass into the duodenum, and as soon as they are acted upon by the bile the polar filaments are extruded, the valves of the sporocyst split apart, and the amoeboid sporozoite creeps out. When the amcebula becomes free, its two nuclei fuse into one if they have not done so already. The free amcebula wanders actively up the bile-duct, and penetrates into a cell of the Immg epithelium. Within the cell the nucleus of the parasite undergoes a change, becoming looser in texture. The amcebula leaves the cell and becomes free in the bile again, where it multiplies by fission, producing in this way very numerous amcebula;, which may occur singly or in clumps.