THE PROTOZOA 324 having nothing hi common except the parasitic habit and the adaptations arising from it, more espcciaUy the propagation by spores. The modern tendency is rather to spHt up this vast assemblage into smaller groups, and to abohsh the Sporozoa as a primary subdivision of the Protozoa. It is practically certaua, at least, that the two main subclasses into which it is always divided are per- fectly distinct in their origm. The class Sporozoa is retahied here solely m deference to custom and convenience, and without preju- dice to the affinities and systematic position of its constituents, a question which will be discussed when the group as a wliole has been surveyed. The life-cycle of a Sporozoon may be started conveniently from the mmute germ or sporozoite which escapes from the spore, or from the corresponding stage when spores are not formed. The sporozoite may have one of two forms : it may be an amoebula, a minute amoeboid organism ; or it may be of definite form, a little rod-like or sickle-shaped animalcule (" falciform body," " Sichel- keim ") which is capable of twisting or bending movements, but retains its body-form, and progresses by ghding forwards ; for this second type of sporozoite the term " gregarmula " has been proposed in a previous chapter (p. 169). The sporozoite, whatever its form, is liberated in the body of the new host, and begins at once its parasitic career ; it nourishes itself and grows, often to a relatively huge size, at the expense of the host. This phase of the life-history is termed the " trophic phase," and the parasite itself during this phase a trophozoite, by which term is understood a parasite that is actually absorbing nourishment from the host. The trophozoite may be lodged Avithin cells (cytozoic), or in tissues of the body amongst the cells (histo- zoic), or in some cavity of the body in which it either Ues free or is attached to the wall (coelozoic). Whatever their habitat, the trophozoites of Sporozoa never exhibit any organs or mechanisms for the ingestion or digestion of food, but absorb their nutriment in all cases in the fluid state, by osmosis through the surface of the body, from the substance of the host; if pseudopodia or flagella are possessed by these parasites, they are never used for food- capture, except in so far as pseudopodia, by increasing the surface of the body, may augment its absorptive powers. The parasite may exhibit multiplicative i^hases in which it reproduces itself actively, so that there may be many generations of trophozoites within one and the same host, which may thus be quite overrun by swarms of the parasites. MultipUcation of this kmd, which is non-sexual, is known as schizogony ; the trophozoites which multiply in this manner are termed schizonts ; and the minute