THE NEOSPORIDIA 411 The binucloate amccbula is succeeded by a stage with four colls (Fjg. 170 C), the esult of the division of each nucleus, with subsequent dmsion of the cytoplasm of the amcebula. Two of the ceUs take up a superhcial position afd form an envelope for the other two, which are the gametoeytes. The two enveloping ceUs do not develop further but the two )^te™aU«"^ to multiply by repeated division to form sixteen gametes (Fig. 170, V, f), eigM derived from each of the gametoeytes. The gametes now copulate in pairs, those of each couple being slightly different from one another, chiefly ar; regards the size of their nuclei. It is very probable that m each couple one aamete is descended from one of the two original gametoeytes, the other from the other (Fig. 170, F, G). In this way eight zygotes are formed, each of which represents a sporoblast and proceeds to form a spore. Each sporoblast now divides into two cells, which may be distinguished as Cell A and Cell B respectively. Cell A is the mother-cell of all the accessory elements of the spore—namely, parietal ceUs and capsulogenous cells. Cell B is the mother-ceU of the germmal elements. The development of these two sets of elements proceeds at first quite independently. Cell A divides mto six cells (Fig. 170, H, I, right), three parietal cells which secrete the three valves of the sporocyst, and three capsulogenous cells which produce the three polar capsules. Cell B is at first a cell with a suigle large nucleus, which now begms to divide, and when it does so Cell B separates from the six cells derived from Cell A (Fig. 170, H, I, left). As a result of the nuclear division in Cell B, it becomes a large multinucleate plasmodium, the germinal mass, eontaming larger central nuclei, and smaller towards the periphery. The larger nuclei are perhaps trophic in function, the smaller germinal. As a result of these changes, the body now consists of two envelope-cells, destined to degenerate, containmg sixteen cell-masses ; eight, consisting each of the six spore-formmg cells, which take up a more central position, and eight multinucleate germinal masses, which lie at the periphery of the body. Each central mass forms the sporocyst and polar capsules of the spore, and when these parts are completely formed the germinal masses migrate bodily into the spores, each germinal mass occupying the cavity of one of the spores (Fig. 170, J). Within the spore the germinal mass remains for a time in the condition of a multinucleate plasmodium, but divides ultimaely into a vast number of uninucleate sporozoites. The spore germinates, doubtless, in the digestive tract of a new host, setting free a swarm of amoebulse which as planonts pass through the intestinal epithelium and initiate a fresh develop- mental cycle. The spore-formation in Actinomyxidia is seen to agree in all essential details with that of the Myxosporidia, and inasmuch as each zygote becomes a sporoblast, and gives rise to an entire spore, with all its accessories, the process is similar to that of the Disporea. The chief points in which the Actinomyxidia differ from the Myxo- sporidia are the absence of the large trophic plasmodial stage, the ternary symmetry of the spore, and the enormous number of sporo- zoites contained in the relatively huge spore. Order III.: Microsporidia.—The characteristic feature of this order is furnished by the spores, which are minute oval refringent bodies in which no polar capsule is visible in the fresh condition ; but when treated with reagents the spores are seen to contain, with one exception, a single polar capsule, from which, after suit- able stimulation, a polar filament of very great length is extruded. The existence of the polar capsule in the Microsporidian spore was discovered by Th61ohan, who in consequence of this discovery