29 CHAPTER III THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA—EXTERNAL FORM AND SKELETAL STRUCTURES A UNICELLULAR organism of any kind is a more or less minute mass or corpuscle of the living substance, protoplasm, containing usually other substances, fluid, solid, or even in some rare instances gaseous, in greater or less amount—substances which are either the product of its own vital activity or have been taken up into the body from without. As will be shown in more detail in the next chapter, proto^olasm is a substance or complex of substances which, considered in the aggregate, exhibits the physical proxoerties of a viscid fluid. Some samples of protoplasm may be less, others more fluid, but the essentially fluid nature of the whole mass of protoplasm composing the cell-body is very obvious, as a rule, in the case of Protozoa. A drop of a fluid substance, when suspended in another fluid with which it is not miscible, tends immediately, under the action of the physical laAvs of surface-tension, to assume the geometrical form in which the surface is least in proportion to the mass ; that is to say, it tends to become a perfect sphere, except in so far as this tendency may be altered or modifled by the contact or pressure of other bodies, or by the operation of other forces or conditions which oppose the action of surface-tension. The sphere may therefore be regarded as the primary form of the livmg cell—the form, that is to say, which the organism tends to assume under the influence of iDhysical forces when not checked or inhibited in their operation by other factors. A great many Protozoa exliibit the spherical form m a striking manner, especially those species which float more or less freely in the water, such as the Heliozoa (Fig. 3) and Radiolaria (Fig. 13). But the majority of Protozoa depart more or less widely from the primitive spherical form, for reasons which must be considered in detail. In the first place, departure from a spherical form may be merely temporary, the result of vital activity producing altered conditions of surface-tension. In order that a drop of fluid may assume a spherical form as the result of surface-tension, its surface must be