475 BIBLIOGRAPHY The references to literature are numbered consecutively, but are grouped according to the chapters. An asterisk (*) attached to a reference indicates that the ivork in question contains fidl references to the previous literature of the subject. Memoirs in lohich only new species are described are not cited, unless there is some special reason for doing so. All new species are recorded in the " Zoological Record,''' published annually by the Zoological Society of London ; the last volume published up to date is that for 1910 / the volume for 1911 will appear towards the end of 1912. The titles of the subject-matter of articles are in many cases not given verbatim, but in abbreviated form. The abbreviations employed for the titles of periodicals are given below. {In other cases the titles of periodicals are abbreviated in a manner which does not require special explanation.) A.I.C.P. Archivos do Institute Bacteriologico Camara Pestana (Lisbon). A.I.P. Annales de I'lnstitut Pasteur (Paris). A.K.G.A. Arbeiten aus dem kaiserlichen Gesundheitsamte (Berlin). A.P.EL Archiv fiir Protistenkunde (Jena). A.S.T.H. Archiv fiir Schiffs- und Tropenhygiene (Leipzig). A. T.M.P. Annals of Tropical Medicine and Parasitology (Liverpool). A. Z.E. Archives de Zoologie experimentale et generale (Paris). B. A.S.C. Bulletin Internationale de I'Academie des Sciences a Cracovie. B.B. Biological Bulletin (Woods HoU, Mass.). B.C. Biologisches Centralblatt (Leipzig). B. I.P. Bulletin de I'lnstitut Pastern- (Paris). B.S.P.E. — de la Societe de Pathologie Exotique (Paris). B. S.Z.F. — de la Societe Zoologique de France (Paris). C.B.B.P.K. Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie, Parasitenkunde und Infections- krankheiten (Jena). C. R.A.S. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des Seances de I'Academie des Sciences (Paris). C.R.S.B. des Seances et Memoires de la Societe de Biologie (Paris). J.E.M. Journal of Experimental Medicine (Baltimore). J.E.Z. — of Experimental Zoology (Baltimore). J.H. — of Hygiene (Cambridge). J.L.S. — of the Linnean Society : Zoology (London). M.I.O.C. Memorias do Instituto Oswaldo Cruz (Rio de Janeiro). P.R.S. Proceedings of the- Royal Society of London. Py. Parasitology (Cambridge). P.Z.S. Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London. Q.J.M.S. Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science (London). S.B.A.B. Sitzungsberichto der koniglich-preussischen Akademie der Wissen- schaften zu Berlin. S.B.G.B. — der Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin. Q^;?' T Gesellschaft fiir Morphologic und Physiologic in Miinchen. b.M.I. Scientific Memoirs by Officers of the Medical and Sanitary Depart- mcnts of the Government of India (Calcutta). ^ A ■ y^i'Jiandlungen der deutschen zoologischen Gesellschaft (Leipzig). zl.A. Zoologischer Anzeiger (Leipzig). Zja.P. Zeitschrift fiir allgemoine Physiologio (Jena). Z.H. — fiir Hygiene und Infectionskrankheiten (Leipzig). /.w.Z. — fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie (Leipzig).