SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA ISl viduals, wliich copulate in pairs, and the uninucleate zygote grows up into the multinucleate PeZomyxd. . .,. , .1 The conception of vegetative and generative chromidia has not been accepted universally or without criticism. Hartraann, as pouited out above, considers that many cases of generative chromidia are really the result ot a disruption of a polyenergid nucleus ; Awerinzew (47) is of opinion that while all Protozoa possess vegetative chromidia at some stage at least in the lile- cyclo generative chromidia are to be considered as a new acquisition, a hasten- ing of the process of the formation of numerous gamete-nuclei; Dobell (51) puts forward a similar view with regard to generative chromidia. With regard to the latter criticism, it may be pointed out that nuclei may become resolved into chromidia in order to undergo simple binary fission. With recrard to Hartmann's view, there is at present, at least, little evidence that it is an adequate explanation of the many cases of formation of secondary generative nuclei from chromidia known amongst the Sarcodina. The ques- tion is discussed further below (p. 255). 2. Syngamy and Reduction with Nuclei only.—A very simple example is furnished by the common Actinophrys sol (Fig. 71), as described by Schaudinn (129). Conjugation takes place between two adult forms (macrogamy), which come together and become enclosed in a common cyst. The nucleus of each individual then divides by karyokinesis, and one nucleus of the pair thus produced is expelled from the body and undergoes degeneration as a reduction nucleus. The persistent nucleus of each individual then repeats the process and forms a second reduction-nucleus. The nucleus now remaining in each cell is the definitive pronucleus. The two gametes now copulate, their pronuclei fusing to form the synkaryon, after which the synkaryon divides by karyokinesis and the zygote divides into two individuals which later escape from the cyst and resume the free-living vegetative life. The course of sjnagamy in Actinophrys is exactly similar to that performed by the two " secondary cysts " derived from division of a " primary cyst " in Actinosphcerium (see p. 138, supra). In both cases alike the nucleus of the conjugants may be supposed to contain both vegetative and generative chromatin mixed together. It is possible that the vegetative chromatin is extruded from the nucleus in the form of chromidia prior to the reducing divisions, but no elimination of vegetative substance has been described. The last example of syngamy in Protozoa that need be con- sidered specially at this point is that of the Infusoria, which have been the subject of numerous investigations. These organisms present the highest degree of specialization of the body-structure and elaboration of the nuclear apparatus found in any Protozoa. Their syngamic processes vary in detail to some extent in different cases (see p. 448), but the whole process is essentially as follows (Fig. 77) : Two individuals come together and adhere, placing themselves side by side. The two conjugants may be similar in visible constitution, or may differ to a greater or less extent, and