THE PROTOZOA 426 Under the generic name MicroMossia, Krassiltschik has described certain cell-parasites of caterpillars, which appear to belong to the Neo- sporidia, though it is not possible to assign the genus to a definite position, since the structure of the spores has not been made out, and the account given of the life-cycle requires revision. According to Krassiltschik, the cycle begins with non-sexual schizogony; the nucleus of the schizont divides into four or eight nuclei, and as many merozoites are produced within the body of the schizont. Schizogony is succeeded by formation of " macronts " and " micronts " which give rise to gametes ; the macront by a process of fission similar to the schizogony produces four to eight macrogametes, while the micront produces in a similar way two, four, or eight, microgametes. The nucleus of the macrogamete divides to form two reduction-nuclei. The microgamete attaches itself to one pole of the macrogamete, and its nucleus passes over into the cytoplasm of the latter and fuses with the female pro- nucleus. In the zygote the synkaryon buds off daughter-nuclei, roimd which the cytoplasm of the zygote is condensed to form internal buds—" pro- toblasts." The protoblasts are set free, and produce in their turn " deuto- blasts," which are set free, become amoeba-like, multiply in the blood of the insect, and infect the tissues and organs of the host, especially the fat-body and the wall of the digestive tract. In the fat-body the deutoblasts produce a generation of " tritoblasts " which mvdtiply actively and spread amongst the tissue. From the tritoblasts arise finally a generation of " teloblasts," which divide each into a rosette of small cells, the definitive sporoblasts, romid a central residual mass. Each sporoblast produces a spore, a smooth, strongly refractile body, ellipsoidal or egg-shaped, in which no details of structure could be made out. The spores appear to be produced in the wall of the digestive tract, whence they are set free with the fasces. The concluding phases suggest a Nosema-type, but the earlier part of the life-cycle, if correctly described, appears to be a type sui generis. Under the name Lijmphocystis johnstonei, Woodcock (824) described a parasite of plaice and flounders, which forms conspicuous cysts in the lymph- spaces of the skin and mesentery. Each cyst (Fig. 178) contains a single parasite, which may attain 1 -5 millimetres in diameter, and shows a remarkable structure. The body is enclosed by a thick, structureless membrane, and contains at the centre a very large nucleus, irregular in shape, staining feebly, and containing a number of karyosomes in a faintly-staining reticulum. Surroundmg the nucleus is a chromidial network forming a ring or zone of considerable thickness, filling the greater part of the cytoplasm between the nucleus and the envelope. The outermost zone of the chromidial net may contain a series of small, clear " spherules." According to Awerinzew (815 and 816), the youngest stages of Lymphocystis are minute cells with a single nucleus which grow very rapidly, and as they do so the chromatin passes out of the nucleus to form the chromidial ring. The spherules are masses of plastin which separate from the chromidial net. From the chromidia secondary nuclei are formed, round which a portion of the cytoplasm is cut off to form small cells, termed by Awerinzew " secondary amoeboids," and compared by him to the sporonts of Glugea. Within the secondary amceboids spores are formed, of which, however, the structure has not been made out clearly. In teased-up preparations of Lymphocystis, Awerinzew found spores similar to those of Henneguya, and proposed to place the parasite in that genus. He has now become doubtful, however, whether the Henneguya-spoves belong to the Lymphocystis or to a distinct parasite, since he was unable to demonstrate a similar structure in the spores found in the secondary amoeboids. Awerinzew is of opinion, nevertheless, that Lymphocystis should be referred to the Cnidosporidia, but this form requires further investigation. . Toxocystis homari, Leger and Duboscq (646), is a parasite of the posterior intestinal ctecum of lobsters. In appearance it resembles a hsemogreganne, motionless, with granular cytoplasm and a smaU karyosomatic nucleus at the middle of the body; there are also usuaUy two, sometimes one, para-