THE PROTOZOA 176 So far only primary soxual differences—that is to say, those between the actual gametes—have beep, discussed ; but, as lias been stated above, the sexual diilerontiation may be thrown back, as it wore, into generations preceding the gametes. Thus, it is by no means uncommon, especially in Coccidia and Hsemosporidia, for the gamotocytes to be clearly distinguishable according to sex, the female gametocyte having the cytoplasm loaded with reserve food- material, and usually with a smaller nucleus, while the male gameto- cyte has the cytoplasm clear and free from inclusions, and the nucleus is relatively large. In Adelea the male gametocyte is very much smaller than the female (Fig. 154). In Cydospora caryolytica, parasitic in the mole, the sexual differentiation is carried back through generations antecedent to the gametocytes, and, according to Schaudinn (147), male and female merozoites can be distinguished. The various types of polymorphism that have been discussed in this chapter may be classified as f oUows : 1. Adaptive i)olymorphism. (1) Passive. (2) Active. 2. Ontogenetic polymorphism. (1) In size alone. (2) In structure also. (a) Recaj)itulative. (6) Adaptive. 3. Sexual polymorphism. (1) Primary (of gametes). (2) Secondary. (a) Of gametocjdies alone. (6) Of other generations also. In the task of unravelhng the compUcated life-cycles of Protozoa, it is of the greatest importance to distinguish clearly the significance of the various forms that are seen, and there can be no doubt that failure to do so has often been a source of error. With some writers it is an obsession to ascribe aU difierences to sex, and to interpret, for instance, in the development of trypanosomes, aU bulky forms as females, and aU slender, active forms as males, quite regarcUess of the behaviour of the forms thus designated. It is far more probable that in the majority, at least, of such cases the bulky forms are related to the multipHcative, the slender, active forms to the propagative function, respectively, and that the differences between them have no relation whatever to sexual functions, either in the forms themselves or in their descendants.