393 THE H.-EMOSPORIDIA micloiis when present is a permanent ccU-elcment which hkc the pr.ncipa nucleus, divided when the cell divides, and is propagated by fission cqiial y with the ceU itself. Thirdly, and this is the most important criterion ol alJ, the kinetonucleus is in relation with a flagellum during at least some phases of the development, though for a time the locomotor apparatus may be temporarily absent, its existence indicated only by the kinetonucleus during resting phases. , ., ^ if The smaller ehromatinic body of Leishmama may be cited as an example ot a body which fulfils these conditions, and which can be identified unhes^ita- tin^rly as a true kinetonucleus, homologous in every way with that of a try- panosome. But with the alleged kinetonuclei of Hsemosporidia the matter stands quite otherwise. It is not possible to discuss fuUy here every separate instance, but a few typical examples of such bodies may be dealt with briefly. , . . , In female halteridia and leucocytozoa (Pig. 158), a large gram is seen by the side of the nucleus, and often interpreted as a kinetonucleus. Until this body has been shown conclusively to be related in some phase of the life- history to a flageUum, it is far simpler to regard it as a karyosome which, Hke that of the merozoites of Adelea (Fig. 153, F), is excentrie, or possibly extranuclear in position; assuming, that is, that the body in question is a true eliromatiuic nuclear element. In the merozoites of Proteosoma, Hartmann (675) has discovered a flagellum- like process at the anterior end, arising from a grain which he regards as a kinetonucleus (" blepharoplast" in the German use of the term), thus con- firming certain obiter dicta of Sehaudinn (132, p. 436) with regard to the mero- zoites and sporozoites of the tertian parasite. It may be pointed out that the rostrum of the sporozoites of Gregarines appears to be a perfectly similar structure, which very possibly represents a rudimentary flagellum arising from a true blepharoplast of centrosomic nature. Hartmann's discovery is therefore more proof of the affinities of proteosoma with other Telosporidia than with Hfemoflagellates. The supposed kinetonuclei of piroplasms have been mentioned above ; the entire absence {pace Hartmann) of flagellated stages throughout the life- cycle make it impossible to accept any such interpretation of the nature of these granules so highly inconstant in their occurrence. Lastly it should be mentioned that Sehaudinn, and recently Hartmann, have maintained that the microgametes of halteridia and other Hsemosporidia have the structure of a trypanosome. Inasmuch as Sehaudinn also pointed out the great structural similarity between trypanosomes and spermatozoa, this point might not count for much, even if it were true ; unless the Metazoa also are to be classified amongst the Biimcleata, a conclusion which, indeed, seems to foUow from the nuclear theory of Hartmann and Prowazek (63). In objects of such extreme minuteness, however, statements ascribing to them complicated details of structure must be regarded with great scepticism imtil thoroughly substantiated. It is a sufficient warning of the need of caution to bear in mind the controversy that has raged over the question of the minute structure of spirochaetes, with regard to which Sehaudinn was obliged to retire from the position he took up at first—namely, that their structure was similar to that of a trypanosome. 3. Possible Transitional Forms.—The parasite of kala-azar was originally described by Laveran under the name Piroplasma donovani* in the belief that it was a true piroplasm; and many writers have been struck by the external similarity of the two parasites, in spite of the difficulty in finding in Piroplasma a satisfactory representative of the constant and definite kinetonucleus of Leishmania. In fact these two genera are often cited as the connecting link between Hfcmoflagellates and Hsemosporidia, and are supposed to indicate the course of evolution whereby scrum-parasites of the first type became * On the other hand, the parasite of Oriental Sore was first described by Wright under the name Ildcosoma tropicum. and referred to the Microsporidia.