1"^^ THE PROTOZOA it does not occur amongst organisms of the bacterial grade Svn- gamy is related to the life-cycle as ^ whole, and not specially to eell-reproduction. In its effects on the cell-individual, syngamy appears to have an invigorating effect, renewing vital powers that have become effete and exhausted ; but in species that live in very favourable conditions of nutrition, etc., whether such conditions are due to artificial culture or to natural causes, such as para,sitism syngamy may be deferred for a very long time, and may even be completely m abeyance, or may degenerate into parthenogenesis or autogamy. In its relation to the race, syngamy tends to level down individual variations, and so produce true species amongst the Protista. Before proceeding to discuss the nature and probable origin of the syngamic process, it is necessary to take into account a i^rocess which appears to be a universal concomitant of syngamy—namely, the process of nuclear reduction in the gametes. In all cases of syngamy that have been carefully studied, it has been found that the gametes differ from the ordurary cell-individuals of the species m having undergone a process of so-called " maturation " which con- sists essentially in nuclear reduction—that is to say, in a diminution of the normal quantity of the chromatin by so-called "reducing" divisions of the nucleus. Hence the pronuclei which undergo syngamic fusion differ in their constitution from the nuclei of cells not destined for this process, and do not multiply, as a rule, mider normal conditions so long as they i-emain single. In some cases among plants, however, the cells that have undergone nuclear reduction may multiply by fission and produce a multicellular organism (gametophytc) from which gametes ultimately arise ; in this way is brought about the well-known alternation of genera- tions of the ferns and flowering plants. Since, moreover, in Metazoa, ova that have undergone nuclear reduction can be stimulated artificially to start their development without fertilization, it is clear that the nuclear reduction does not in itself inhibit further development or cell-multiplication. True nuclear reduction in gametes must be distinguished clearly from the process of elimiiaation of effete or vegetative chromatin which precedes the formation of the gametes or their nuclei, probably in every case. As has been stated above (p. 72), vegetative and generative chromatin may be combined in the same nucleus, or may occur, the one in the form of a nucleus, the other in the form of chromidia, or may constitute two distinct nuclei. When the two are combined in one nucleus, a necessary preliminary to gamete- formation is the purification of the generative chromatin of all effete vegetative material. When the vegetative chromatin is already separate from the generative, the latter alone takes a