THE PROTOZOA 114 amount of chromatin increases, and the nucleus becomes oval in form. The chromatin forms a number of chromosomes shaped like elongated rods or short threads, whi,ch arrange themselves at the equator. At the same time the achromatinic framework shows a longitudinal fibrillation or striation, the apparent fibrillse being centred in thickenings of the achromatinic framework which appear at the two poles of the nucleus within the persistent nuclear mem- brane, hence termed the " polar plates." Centrosomic grains are stated to be entirely absent, and their functions are performed by the polar plates. The nucleus continues to elongate, and the chromosomes divide transversely to their long axis to form the daughter-plates, which travel apart; as they do so the fibrillatcd final than F e Fig. 61.—Stages in the division of the micronucleus of Para- mecium. A, B, Early stages ; C, spindlc-stage with equa- torial plate of chromosomes ; D, spindle with the two daughter-plates; E—H, growth of the separation-spindle and separation of the two daughter-plates ; /. reconstitu- tion of the daughter-nuclei, which are widely separated, but still connected by the greatly elongated separation- spindle the central part of which shows a dilatation prior to its absorption. After Hertwig. Figs A—E are drawn on a larger scale the other figures. separation-spindle appears between them. The nucleus as a whole now becomes dumb-bell-shaped ; the daughter-plates are lodged in the terminal swellings, while the rapidly-growing separation-spindle occupies the handle of the dumb-bell. The daughter-plates now break up and reconstitute the daughter-nuclei, but the connecting portion contmues to elongate and to push the daughter-nuclei apart. It is clear that the separation is effected by intrinsic growth of the achromatinic framework constituting the separation-spindle, which is often curved up into a horseshoe-figure, and shows bendmg or twisting of its fibrils, as the result of the inert resistance of the sur- rounding cytoplasm. Finally, however, a limit of growth is attamed; the daughter-nuclei become constricted oS completely from the connecting bond, which is absorbed and disappears. The nuclear membrane persists throughout the division. In all the forms of nuclear division dealt with so far, nuclear elements alone have been active in the process. A most instructive series showing how extranuclear elements come to collaborate in