THE REPRODUCTION OF THE PROTOZOA 117 plates lying within the persistent membrane. External to the membrane are two large conical masses of archoplasm, termed the " polar cones." As in the micronucleus of Paramecium, the polar plates represent functionally the centrosomes, towards which the daughter-plates travel, and division of the nucleus is effected by growth of the separation-spindle. The archoplasmic polar cones appear to take little or no part in the mechanics of the division, since their apices maintain their distance from one another, and the growth of the separation-spindle pushes the daughter-nuclei into their substance. The reduction-karyokinesis is heralded by the formation of a centrosome from the nucleus (Fig. 37 ; see p. 80, supra). The centrosomes are at first close to the nucleus, external to its mem- brane, but when the karyokinetic spindle is formed the centro- somes travel to the apices of the cones. From the centrosomes radiations extend through the polar cones, continuing the direction of the longitudinal striations of the intranuclear spindle, though separated from them by the intervening nuclear membrane. During the division the apices of the cones move apart to a slight extent, but the separation of the daughter-nuclei is still mainly the work of the separation-spindle, which pushes them into the polar cones and brings them close to the two centrosomes again ; hence the activity of the polar archoplasm can be but slight. The chromo- somes in the reduction-divisions are more distinctly separated from each other as the result, apparently, of a reduction in the amount of the plastin forming the ground-substance. The nuclear membrane persists throughout the whole process. In Actinophrys the karyokinesis appears to be of a type similar to that of Actinosphcerium, with persistent membrane, but with more activity in the extranuclear archoplasmic elements. In Acantliocystis (Fig. 64), however, the nuclear membrane disappears completely from the karyokinetic figure, and it is no longer possible, m consequence, to distinguish the parts of the achromatinic spindle which are of intranuclear and extranuclear origin respectively. Nuclear and cytoplasmic elements are in complete co-operation, a condition of things which has apparently been brought about and rendered possible by the extrusion of the centrosome from the nucleus in the first instance. From the foregoing examples, it is seen that amongst the Protozoa the material is to be found for illustrating the gradual evolution of the mechanism of karyokinetic division, from the starting-point of simple and direct division up to the most advanced type in which a perfect karyokinetic figure is formed by co-operation of nuclear and cytoplasmic substance. It is not necessary to suppose, how- ever, that the course of evolution has always been in the direction