242 THE PROTOZOA types. In the subdivision termed the Sorophora or Acrasise there is no flagellula-stage m the life-history, and the amoebula) which are produced from the spores aggregate togetlier, but form only a psoudo-plasmodium, in which the constituent amoebulae remain distinct, without fusion of their protoplasmic bodies, each amcebula multiplying independently. The details of the reproductive process also vary greatly. In the division known as the Exosporose, represented by the genus Ceratiomyxa, no sporangium is formed, but the Plasmodium grows up into antler-like processes, sjwrophores, over the surface of which the plasmodium divides up Into a mosaic of cells, each containing a single nucleus of the plasmodium. Each cell becomes a spore, which is produced on the free surface of the sporophore, and drops off when ripe. In the Sorophora the amoebae associated in the pseudo- plasmodium are not all destined to become reproductive individuals ; some of them join together to secrete a stalk, and develop no further; others form clusters (" sori ") of naked spores on the stalk. The cytological details of the life-history of the Mycetozoa have been the subject of a series of studies by Jahn, who, however, in his latest investigations, has come to conclusions different from those at which he arrived in his earlier works. According to the earUer accounts given by Jahn and Kranzlin, the spore-formation was preceded by a fusion of nuclei in pairs throughout the sporangium, a process which was regarded as the true sexual karyogamy, and was followed by reducmg divisions. According to Jalm's latest investiga- tions (294), however, the nuclear fusions observed in the sporangium take place only between degenerating nuclei, and are to be interpreted as purely vegetative phenomena which have nothing to do with the true sexual process, which is stated to be as follows: The nuclear division which immediately precedes spore-formation is a reducing division, whereby the number of chromosomes is reduced from sixteen to eight. Consequently the nuclei of the spores, and also the swarm-spores produced from them, both flageUulae and amoebulse, have half the full number of chromosomes. In Physarum didermoides the amoebulae multiply by fission, with mitoses showing eight chromosomes. After a certain number of such divisions, the amoebulas copulate in pairs as gametes. The zygotes thus formed are the foundation of the Plasmodia ; when one zygote meets another it fuses with it, the nuclei remaining separate, and by repeated fusions of this kmd the plasmodia are formed. When, on the other hand, a young plasmodium or a zygote meets an amosbula (gamete), it devours and digests it. The nuclei of the plasmodia multiply by mitoses which show sixteen chromosomes. In Ceratiomyxa the reduction-division preceding spore-formation is followed by degeneration of one of the two daughter-nuclei; the other becomes the nucleus of the spore. Withm the spore the nucleus divides twice, forming four nuclei, and as soon as the spore germinates the contents divide into four amoabute, which adhere in the form of a tetrahedron. Each amosbula has eight chromosomes in its nucleus, and divides into two amoebulae, also with eight chromosomes. Each of the amoebulae develops a flagellum and swnns off Possibly in this genus the syngamy takes place between flagellulae. From the investigations of Jahn, it is clear that the swarm-spores ot Mycetozoa, like those of other Sarcodma, are the gametes ; then- nuclei have undercrone a process of reduction, and represent pronuclei, which after a certain number of divisions give rise by syngamy to synkarya, from whicli the nuclei of the vegetative phase, the plasmodium, takes origm. The Mycetozoa are classihed by Lister (297) as follows : Suborder I.: Etjplasmodida (Myxogastres, Myxomycetes sens, strict.).— Mycetozoa with a flageUula stage and a true plasmodium formed by plasto- gamic fusion of amcebulaj. This suborder comprises forms Mith the full liie- cycle described above. .... . ■ir^„„,r.w. Section 1. ^/KZosporetB.—Spore-formation withm a sporangium. Examples. Badhamia, Fidigo {Mhalium), etc Section 2. ^/ctos^JorecE.—Spores formed on the exposed surface ot sporo phores. Example : Ceratiomyxa.