271 THE MASTIGOPHORA FiJ. 114.—Gercomonas crassicauda, Dujardin, showing amoeboid changes of form. After Stein. recently described by Wonyon (361) from a culture of human faeces, and referred by him to the genus Cercomonas, would appear rather to belong to the genus Bodo. To the family Bodonidce must be referred also the genera Prowazekia and Trypanoplasma, dealt with in greater detail in the next chapter. Hdcomastix, Senn (358), is to be referred to the Bodonidce or made the type of a distinct family; its two flagella of unequal length are both directed backwards in move- ment. Finally, mention must be made of the group of flagel- lates characterized by the pos- session of a collar (see p. 261, supra), and hence commonly known as " choanoflagel- lates" or " craspedomonads." They are sedentary forms, attached by the end of the body opposite to the flageUum, and may remain single, but more usually form colonies often of cotisiderable extent (Pig. 110). The flagellum is used mainly for food-capture, in which the collar also pro- bably plays an important part; but an individual may become detached from its support, and swim freely, the flagellum being then directed backwards. The systematic position of the choanoflagellates has been differently estimated by different authors; by some they have been ranked as a primary subdivision of the Plagellata, which are then divided as a whole into Choanoflagellata and Lissoflagellata, 'the second of these divisions being used to include aU other flagellates. Since, however. the choanoflagellates scarcely differ from ordinary monads except in the possession of the characteristic collar, a speciaHzation of the food-capturmg function related to a sedentary life, they are now generally ranked as a family of the Protomonadma, the Choanofiagdlidce. Order III.: Polymastigina.—FlageUa from three to eight in number, usually all more or less equal in size ; m other points of structure similar to the last-mentioned order. Two famihes, which are sharply marked off from one another, are referred to this order. 1. Tetramitidce, with three or more flagella, which all arise at the anterior end close together. The flagella may all be directed forwards, or one of them may be turned backwards as a trailing flageUum ; in the latter case the trailing flageUum may or may not be united to the body by an undulating membrane. The species referred to this famUy are for the most part parasitic. Endoparasitic forms of common occur- rence, especially in the digestive tracts of vertebrates trp.-Hnrrflo^ n f^!^ Tnchomashx, with three anterior flageUa and a free men of the flnSr^, (Fig. 5), with the same number and arraige- Suliin. i ° i ' ''"^ S,™gthe trailing flageUum united to the bodybyfn undulating membrane. These two forms occur frequently in the same hnT and are perhaps to bo interpreted as two developmVtal ^iLes oUhe same Fig. 115.—a, Bode saltans, Ehren- bcrg. B, Bodo gracilis, Stein. After Stein.