THE H^MOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 303 The three principal phases in the development of T. cruzi in the bug may be compared, without difficulty, with those of T. lewisi in the flea, though difl'ering in minor details ; in both cases an early multiplicative phase in the stomach is followed by a crithidial i^hase, also multiplicative and constituting the principal stock of the parasite, in the hinder part of the digestive tract; to this succeeds a propagative trypanif orm phase, which in the case of T. lewisi passes forwards to the stomach, but which in the case of T. cruzi appears to pass through the wall of the alimentary canal into the body-cavity, and so into the salivary glands. Other developmental forms have been described by Chagas, but their relation to the cycle of the parasite, if indeed they really belong to it, is not clear. The developmental cycle of the trypanosomes of fresh-water fishes in the leech Hemidepsis marginata (Robertson, 503) begins also by active multi- plication in the crop about six to nine hours after the flagellates have been ingested. The trypanosomes divide by repeated binary fission of unequal type, budding off small individuals which are crithidial in type and multiply in their turn. In a few days the crop is populated by a swarm of trypano- monad forms of various sizes, multiplying actively. Towards the end of the digestion, the propagative phase begins to appear in the form of long, slender try^aniform individuals which arise directly from the crithidial forms, and pass forwards in great numbers from the crop into the proboscis-sheath, whence they are inoculated by the leech into a fresh host. A certain number of the crithidial forms remain behind in the crop, however, where during hunger-periods they may pass into a resting Leishmania-iovm.; when the crop is again filled with fresh blood, these forms begin to multiply again, repopulating the crop with crithidial forms, from which a fresh batch of trypaniform propagative individuals arise towards the end of digestion agam. In the development of T. raice in the leech Pontobdella muricata (Robertson, 500, 502), the ingested trypanosomes miiltiply in the crop in a similar manner by unequal binary fission, budding off smaU individuals which, however, are rounded and leishmanial in type, and which pass down from the crop into the intestine, where they develop a flagellum, become crithidial in type, and multiply actively. During hunger-periods they become leishmanial, resting forms which persist when all other forms have succumbed and died out, becom- ing crithidial again when the supply of food is renewed. From the crithidial forms arise the long, slender trypaniform individuals of the propagative phase, which pass forward into the proboscis to be inoculated into the fish. The development of T. vittatce, from the blood of the Ceylon tortoise, Emyda vittata, m the leech GlossipJwnia sp., is of a similar type, but takes place almost entirely in the crop (Robertson, 501). The development of T. gambiense in the tsetse-fiy, Olossina palpalis, so far as It has been described by Kleine (457), Kleine and Taute (459), and Bruce and his collaborators (415), presents some peculiar features not quite intelli- gible at present. The whole development takes a long time, about eighteen to twenty-five days or more, a fact which, together with the low percentage of flies which become infected, accounts for the existence of a development'al cycle iiaving been missed by so many investigators, until it was first dis- covered by Kleme. From five to seven days after the infection of the fly the trypanosomes disappear or become scarce in its digestive tract, indicating possibly, an intracellular stage yet to be discovered. Later, in a small percentage of the flies, the trypanosomes reappear in the digestive tract in enormous numbers. The flagellates at this stage vary greatly in size form and appearance, but crithidial forms are stated to be very rare, a feature m which the development contrasts with the usual type seen in other trypano- somes Finally an invasion of the saUvary glands takes place, though in what way It IS brought about is not clear ; short, stumpy trypaniform individuals TohoZill ^{ which represent the ripe, propagative phase destined to be inoculated into the vertebrate host. These ripe forms first make their appearance, according to Kleine, in the intestine.