213 THE SARCODINA maturity. In the Protozoa no such criterion is available, and the distinction between young and adult is based on differences in size and growth, or on phases of the life-cycle selected in an arbitrary manner. In many cases the distinction presents no difficulty ; it is perfectly easy to distinguish young from adult stages in such forms as the Foraminifera and Radiolaria among Sarcodina, or the genus Noctiluca among Mastigophora. But in other cases it is purely a matter of opinion which phase in the life-cycle is to be regarded as adult. Such a form as Pseudospora has a flagellated and an amoeboid phase (Robertson), and can be placed in either the Sarcodina or the Mastigophora with perfect propriety. The amoeba-like genus Mastigamceba is placed in the Mastigophora because the flagellum is retained; but if any species of this genus were to lose its flagellum when adult, rigid adherence to verbal definitions would necessitate its being classed in the Sarcodina. The difficulty of separating and defining the stems of the Sarco- dina and Mastigophora at their root is only to be expected on the theory of evolution. The two classes are undoubtedly descended from a common ancestral type, which has become modified in two divergent directions, giving rise to two vast groups of organisms which may differ from one another very slightly or very greatly in selected examples. The systematist may meet with many obstacles Avhen it is required to lay down verbal distinctions between the two classes, but it is easy to recognize, in a general way, two principal morphological types, round which each class is centred, and which may be reahzed to a greater or less extent in given cases. 1. Sarcodine Type.—Protozoa which grow to a relatively large size; in the so-called "adult phase" permanent organs of loco- motion are wanting, and the naked protoplasmic body moves or captures food by means of pseudopodia ; the young stages may be flagellate or amoeboid. 2. Mastigophoran Type.—'Protozoa, usually of minute size, seldom with a large adult phase (as, for example, Nocti uca) ; flagella retained throughout active life, only lost in resting phases ; body, amoeboid or corticate. THE SARCODINA. The name Rhizopoda is sometimes used for this class but this name is only applicable, strictly speaking, to the first four orders recognized below, in which the pseudopodia are more or less root- hke, and not to the orders Heliozoa and Radiolaria, characterized by stiff radiating pseudopodia. General Characteristics.~Ah stated above, the Sarcodina are Pro- tozoa for the most part of relatively large size. Many Sarcodina