THE PROTOZOA 448 also ciliated These excretory systems of Opalina and Pycnothrix differ in bemg endoplasmic from the ordinary contractile vacuoles, which are always formed m the ectoplasm. The endoplasra of the Ciliata may contain enclosures of various kinds • food-vacuoles; metaplastic bodies in the form of excretory grains, crystals' pigment-grams, etc. ; zoochlorellae, and occasionally parasites of one kind or another, etc. Special attention has been drawn by Fauro-Fremiet (38-5 and 835) to the bodies termed by him spheroplasts, and considered by him to be homologous with the mitochondria (p. 41). The bodies in question are small spherules, which multiply by fission when the cell-body divides; they are permanent cell-organs to the same extent as the nuclear apparatus, of which, however, they are entirely independent. As pointed out above, the form of the macronucleus and the number of nuclei_ vary greatly in different species. The cases will be considered below in which the micronucleus appears to be wanting (Opalina), or is contained in the macronucleus in the ordinary condition of the body (Trachdocerca, Ichthyophthirius). As a rule the macronucleus has a finely granular appear- ance, with the chromatin distributed evenly over the nuclear framework; but in a few eases it has a distinctly vesicular structure, with a large karyo- some, as in Loxodes (Joseph, Kasanzeff), Chilodon (Nagler, 96), etc. The macronucleus divides by binary fission of a simple and direct type (Fig. 54). The micronucleus, on the other hand, divides by mitosis (Fig. 61). In Trachelocerca, a form which may possess one or many nuclei (but no separate mieronuclei), Lebedew (93) describes a peculiar mode of multiplication of the nuclei, which divide by multiple fission to form a morula-like body consisting of a mass of small nuclei which separate from one another (Fig. 66). In Lovodes, another form in which the number of nuclei varies greatly in different specimens, the macronuclei do not divide, but only the mieronuclei do so, and the macronuclei arise by growth and modification of the micro- nuclei (Kasanzeff). In many cases in which the macronucleus is of the elongated monihform type, or in which the body in the ordinary state contains two or more macronuclei, they come together to form a single compact macronucleus prior to division; but in other similar cases this does not occur, and when the body divides the nuclei are distributed irregularly between the two daughter-individuals, as in Trachdocerca, Opalina, etc. The distributed form of nucleus is especially characteristic of the astomatous parasitic forms, and in the opinion of Pierantoni [A.P.K., xvi., p. 99) is correlated with nutri- tion by the osmotic method. The micronucleus is less variable in form or number, as a general rule, than the macronucleus, but is not infrequently multiple, especiaU y when there is more than one macronucleus ; but in Trachdius ovum a single large macro- nucleus is combined with thirteen mieronuclei (Hamburger, 841). The conjugation of the Ciliata conforms, as a general rule, in its main outlines to the scheme sketched out above (Fig. 77), but some important variations must be noted. In the first place, the conjugation is often pre- ceded by active division of the animals, so that the eonjugants* are much smaller than the ordinary individuals of the species. When the two eonju- gants come together, the micronucleus of each usually divides into four, but sometimes into eight, as in both eonjugants of Euplotes and the microconju- gant of Peritricha ; in either case, however, only one micronucleus persists, and furnishes the two pronuclei. The Peritricha exhibit in their conjugation certain peculiarities which are clearly of a secondary nature and correlated with their sedentary habit. Certain individuals divide two or three times successively to produce four or eight microconjugants (" microgametes ") which acquire a rmg of locomotor * It is preferable not to speak of two conjugating Infusoria as gametes, since it is very doubtful if they correspond to the gametes in the other classes of Protozoa. It is on the whole more probable that the eonjugants correspond rather wtli gamonts or gametocytes, which originally produced a number of gametes, reduced now to two, represented in each conjuganfc by the two pronuclei.