THE PROTOZOA 196 or by the splitting up of complex chemical substances; the result in either case is the production of energy in various forms and of simj)le chemical substances, such as water and carbon dioxide (compare Barratt, 148). For the processes of oxidation the organism may either absorb free molecular oxygen from its environ- ment, or may produce it by internal molecular changes of substances contained in its own body, as in anaerobic organisms hving in a medium in which free oxygen is lacking. Many free-hving Protozoa require oxygen, and are visibly and rapidly afiected by the lack of it, especially in theh powers of movement. No special organs of respiration are found in any Protozoa, being unnecessary in animals of such small bulk, and in which, consequently, the surface of the body is considerable in proportion to the mass. The contractile vacuoles, when present, are doubtless a means of eliminating carbon dioxide, together Avith other waste products, from the body. It must be supposed, there- fore, that as a general rule oxygen is taken up from the surrounding water by the protoplasm, of which the Umiting membranes are freely permeable, and that the carbon dioxide is given off in a similar manner. The experiments of Verworn (211) on Spirostomum show that the respiratory processes take place in the cytoplasm, independently of the nucleus, which takes no share in respkation. On the other hand, many sapropehc (p. 14) and parasitic forms inhabit media lacldng in free oxygen, and are anaerobic ; in such forms the respiratory processes of the protoplasm can only take place by intramolecular changes, in which the stored-up reserve-materials are probably spht up to supply the required oxygen. The experiments of Putter (201) on a number of species of Ciliata, both free-living and parasitic, showed that, when these animals were placed ni an anaerobic environment, different Individuals of the same species reacted very differently to the conditions, some dying very rapidly, others being quite unaffected for a long time. It was shown further that this difference was related to the amomit of reserve-materials present in the body (proteins and elvcoeen), which can be observed to vary greatly m different mdividuals from the same culture. If Paramecia were first starved for some days and then placed In anaerobic conditions, they succumbed much more rapidly than normal individuals. Moreover, under anaerobic conditions the reserve- materials were used up much more rapidly than under normal conditions Sid without resultmg in increased production of energy. Opahn^, when Xced in a culture-medium to which albumen was added by boiling up ch- ed wMte of egg in salt-solution, was able to make use of the energy of the albumen without the help of free oxygen, and so to live for a much longer time. The dhates were fo^id to succumb much more rapidly to the effects of anaerobu. conditions in smaller than in larger quantities of water, as the result of auto- intoxication in consequence of the defective excretion of the Products of anaerobic metaboHsm Svirostomum wb., found to be more affected by