THE NEOSPORIDIA " 403 An example of the Disporca is Ceratomyxa drepanopseitce, of which the spore-formation is described by Awcrinzow (759). The trophozoite has at first only two nuclei, which are considered by Awerinzew to be derived, " beyond all doubt," from division of a single nucleus ; it seems far more probable, on tho contrary, that the binucleate trophozoite is to be derived from the association and fusion of two distinct planonts. In the binu- cleate trophozoite each nucleus divides by karyokinesis into two nuclei, a larger and a smaller (Fig. 166, A). The two smaller nuclei are vegetative, tho two larger generative, in function. Round each of the two generative nuclei the protoplasm becomes concentrated so as to form two cells which lie embedded in the endoplasm of the trophozoite. These two cells are usually of distinctly different sizes, and represent a microgametocyte and a macro- gametocyte respectively. Each gametocyte next divides into two gametes (Fig. 166, B, C, D), and in each gamete a certam amount of chromatin is extruded from tho nucleus, first into the cytoplasm of the gamete, and then into the endoplasm of the mother-trophozoite. Then each microgamete copulates with one of the two macrogametes (Fig. 166, E, F). The two zygotes thus formed represent the sporoblasts, each of which forms a spore independently of the other. Each sporoblast divides into two cells, a larger and a smaller (Pig. 166, O), and the smaller divides again into two (Pig. 166, H); the result is an aggregate of three-cells.:^ a larger, which gives rise ultimately to the two parietal cells which form thb valves of the sporocyst, and may be termed the " sporocyst- mother-cell" ; and two smaller cells, one of which is the mother-cell of the two capsulogenous cells, the other the future sporozoite or amcebula. The sporocyst-mother-cell may become temporarily separate from the capsule- mother-cell and the amcebula. The three cells of the previous stage build up the spore in the following manner : The sporozoite grows in size, and its nucleus divides into two The capsule-mother-cell divides into two capsulogenous cells, each of which forms a polar capsule in its interior. The amcebula and the two capsulogenous ceUs are placed close together and arranged in a definite manner (Pig 166 /) The sporocyst-mother-cell divides into two parietal cells (Fig 166 j) which place themselves on either side of the ceU-complex composed of the associated am(Bbula and capsulogenous cells (Pig. 166, K), and each secretes one valve of tfie sporocyst enveloping the whole complex. Thus the trophozoite consists finally of an amoeboid body containing two Fig. lee.—Spore-formation in Ceratomyxa drepanopsettce. A, Trophozoite sketched m outhne showing in the Plasmodium two generative nuclei (^ )! each sur- rounded by a ceU-body, and two vegetative nuclei (v.). which lie n ?he toplasm of the body (left blank); note that the generative cells are of different sizes; B, 0. the two generative cells have dilided each into two so tW there are now two macrogametes (?) and two microgametes (<? ) • chromltfn IS bemg given off from the nuclei of the gametes into the cy?optsm S each nncrogamete IS apposed to a macrogamete ; the chromatin-bodieT giv;n off by the gamete-nuclei are now extruded into the plasmodial bodf | F stages in the syngamy between the gametes ; in E the cell-bodies are fu^ed m F the zygotes {z.) are complete ; G. each zygote (sporoblast) has divfrt^ mto a arger (p) and a smaller cell; H. the smaUer c&Mn each snorohS has divided into two, the capsule-mother-cell (cm.) and the sZozoiio Slf he larger cell (p.) is the mother-cell of the parietal iells ; I I Be sporib showing the parietal mother-cell (p.) stUl undivided thrsporozTf^ /I?x ^ith Its nucleus divided into two, and two capsulogenourcells rc f i mmmmmt coll; am, sporozoite with two nuclei (n n ) ■ r r^if^ , P^^ietal Awerinzew (759). ^ ^^'^' capsules. After