THE H^MOSPORIDIA 371 when full-grown attaches itself to an erythroblast and develops into the leucocytozoon, losing its locomotor apparatus. The large trypanosomes in question were supposed to be the sexual, propagativc phases, male and female, of a very minute spirochfcto-like trypanosome, which represented the indifferent, multiplicative form of the parasite. The existence, however, of young forms of the leucocytozoon, no less than the schizogony discovered by Fantham, disprove entirely any such origin from trypanosomes. In correspondence with his ideas upon the nature and orgin of leucocytozoa, Schaudinn regarded the nucleus of the female forms (Fig. 158, B) as con- sisting of a trophonucleus with a kinetonucleus (" blepharoplast ") close beside it; while the nucleus of the male leucocytozoon (Fig. 158, A) was sup- posed to consist of a cluster of small trophonuclei, each with a small kineto- nucleus beside it, precocious division of the two nuclei of the " male trypano- some " being supposed to have produced a number of couples of nuclei in readi- ness for gamete-formation. These cytological interpretations cannot be upheld. There is nothing in the structure of the nucleus of the male leucocytozoon to support the notion that it is not a single large nucleus, and the " blepharo- plast " of the female form appears to be simply the karyosome, eccentric in position. Schaudinn also described what he believed to be the development of Leucocytozoon (or, as he named it, Spirochceta) ziemanni in Culey: pipiens. According to his account, the ookinete became an elongated, worm-like body which divided up to produce an immense number of spirochaetes, or very slender trypanosomes. The spirochtetes were stated to find their way into the Malpighian tubules, where they multiplied and occurred in vast numbers. The spirochaetes, inoculated by the mosquito into the blood of the owl, there became the " indifferent form of the leucocjiiozoon." The statements of Schaudinn with regard to the development of Leucocyto- zoon have received no confirmation, in spite of the efforts of the Sergent brothers to find experimental proof for them. These investigators were unable to obtam any development of the leucocytozoon in Culex, or to transmit the parasite from owl to owl by the agency of mosquitoes. They found, however, that mosquitoes were commonly infected with spirochEetes m the Malpighian tubules, but injection of these spirochajtes into the owl produced no infection with Leucocytozoon, and there can be no doubt that tfie spirochaites m question were true spirochsetes, not connected in any way with either trypanosomes or leucocytozoa. Mayer (685) obtained only ookinetes apparently similar to those of halteridium, but non-pigmented and slightly larger, in mosquitoes fed on owls infected with leucocytozoa, and observed no sign whatever of nuclear multiplication in the ookinetes : Wood- Mnth;,!^rT ' P^^^ti^^Uy tJie same as those of Mayer. .nrl if ^ ?i obtained no development of L. sabrazesi in mosquitoes, bugs, and leeches, fed on well-infected fowls, nor could they bring about transmission by means of mosquitoes. ^ 4. The Hcemogregarines.—Pe^Tasites of this type have been found m the blood of all classes of vertebrates, and are especiallv common m cold-blooded animals, such as fishes and reptiles Until quite recently, haemogregarines were not known to occur in birds ; but Aragao (692) has described a number of species para- sitic m the leucocytes of various species of birds in Brazil It is a curious anomaly of the distribution of these parasites that, while common m marine fishes, they are not known in fresh- water fish, with the sole exception of the eel. While in other classes they are parasitic in the red corpuscles, in mammals they are parasitic m either the red or the white corpuscles, but more com