16 THE PROTOZOA into the body of their host, lose their flagella, and nourish them- selves by means of their pigment, which has the nature and proper- ties of plant-chlorophyll; that is to say, it decomposes carbon dioxide in the sunlight and liberates oxygen. The carbon dioxide is obtained from the respiratory processes of the host, which in its turn utilizes the oxygen produced by the symbionts (p. 197), and thus each organism supplies the needs of the other. When the host enters upon its reproductive processes and breaks up into a vast number of swarm-spores, the symbionts develop flagella and swim o£E, doubtless to seek for lodging elsewhere. It is a matter of convenience to distinguish as epizoic those organisms which live upon, or are attached to, and as entozoic those which live within, the body or substance of the particular form of life with which they are associated. Epizoic forms may be entirely harmless to the creature upon which they occur ; they may simply utilize its body as a coign of vantage where they readily obtain their food, which may consist in some cases of nutritious substances dropped or reje6ted by the animal that carries them ; or they may obtain the benefits of shelter or transport, especially when the epizoic form in question is itself of sedentary habit. Every naturalist is acquainted with the sea-anemones that live habitually upon hermit-crabs, probably to the advantage of both animals—at all events, to the detriment of neither. There are many similar cases among Protozoa. The appendages of Crustacea, especially of the Cladocera and Copepoda, are often thickly beset with sessile Vorticellids and Acinetaria, which obtain a convenient lodging, but provide their own board. Other forms occur similarly on the stems of hydroids, as, for example, Acineta papilUfera on Gordylophora lacustris. Amoebae are found creeping on the exterior of Calcareous Sponges, nourishuig themselves on diatoms and other organisms. Similar instances could be multiplied indefinitely. On the other hand, epizoic forms may be dangerous parasites, nourishing themselves at the expense of the animal they infest, and sometimes inflicting much damage upon it. It can be easily understood that an epizoic form which at first lived harmlessly upon some animal, drawing its supplies of food from the surrounding medium might acquke the habit ultimately of obtaining its nourish- ment from the living substratum upon which it has planted itself. Examples of epizoic parasites are the flagellate Gostia necatnx (V 272) and the ciliate IcUlnjopUhirius muUifihis (p. 450), both ot which are epizoic parasites of fishes, attachmg themselves to the skin and destroying the epidermis ; as a result, the way is left open for fungi and bacteria to penetrate the skin, and so produce ulcera- tion and suppuration, which may be fatal. -.^^^^^ AH certain instances of Protozoa acting as external parasites are