THE H^MOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 283 synonym of it. The question has given rise to a controversy which has been carried on by some of the participants in an acrimonious and even unseemly manner, and which it would be unprofitable to discuss further here, since the question is one which must be decided ultimately by facts, and not by personal opinions or tastes. The various forms comprised in the Hsemoflagellates may now be considered in detail, beginning with the most important type. I. The Genus Trypanosoma. Occurrence. — Trypanosomes were first discovered as blood- parasites of cold-blooded vertebrates—fishes and batrachia ; the type-species of the genus Trypanosoma is T. rotatorium (synonyms, T. sanguinis, Undulina ranarum) of the frog [Rana esculenta). Trypanosomes are now known, however, to occur commonly as blood-parasites in all classes of vertebrates. Li a wild state many species of mammals, birds, and other vertebrate animals, are often found to harbour trypanosomes in their blood, though frequently in such scanty numbers as to render the detection of the parasites extremely difficult. It may be almost impossible in some cases to find trypanosomes in the blood of an animal by direct microscopic examination, owing to their great scarcity ; but in such cases an artificial culture made from the blood may reveal the presence of the parasites, since in a few days the trypanosomes originally present in small numbers in the blood multiply, under favourable conditions, to produce a swarm of flagellates. The cultural forms are quite different, as a rule, from the blood-forms which gave rise to them, and appear generally as crithidial or trypanomonad types ; thus,' cultures furnish evidence of the existence of a trypanosome in a given host, but give no indication whatever of the type of parasite actually present in the blood. In some cases the trypanosomes appear to be present in the peripheral circulation of the vertebrate host only at certain periods, and at other times they are only to be found in the internal organs or tissues of the host, such as the spleen, bone-marrow, liver, lungs, etc. The trypanosome of Athene noctua~T. noctuce, for example- is to be found during the winter only in the bone-marrow of its host, and appears in the peripheral circulation during the summer months' and then most abundantly in the night-time (Minchin and Wood- f^^- various reasons, it may often be extremely diflicult to decide whether a given animal is infected with trypano- somes or not; and in recent years trypanosomes have been dis- covered m animals in which their presence was previously quite unsuspected-for instance, in calves (Crawley, Carini, 423, Stockman • see also BuUetm of the Sleeping Sickness Bureau, No. 29, p. 320) and m sheep (Woodcock, 527, p. 713, footnote).