192 THE PROTOZOA hand, the endoplasm shows a constant rotating movement, known as " cyclosis." In Paramecium the vacuoles are carried round by the current of the cyclosis, and each vacuole may either do a short course or a long course ; the short course is simply round the nucleus, keeping close to it, while the long course travels the whole length of the body, up one side and down the other. As a rule a vacuole goes a short course two or three times, and then does a long course (Nirenstein, 181). The path of the vacuole varies, according to the nature of the contents ; but the tendency is to keep them in the region posterior to the nucleus, where the contents are either cast out through the anal pore, or the vacuole circulates again in the cyclosis. In Carchesium the food-vacuoles, when formed at the base of the oesophagus, pass down to one end of the horseshoe-shaped nucleus, and then ghde close along its concave margin, passing round and up to the opposite end of the horseshoe into the region near the upper end of the vestibule, from whence the vacuole is finally emptied through an anal pore into the vestibule itself (Greenwood, 162). The process of digestion within the food-vacuole has been studied by a number of investigators, amongst whom Le Dantec, Greenwood (162), MetschnikofE (180), MetalnikofE (179), Nirenstein (181), and Khainsky (170-5), must be speciaUy mentioned. Their results are not always in agreement, indicating that the process of digestion is not always the same in different cases, even in the food-vacuoles of one and the same species. According to Nirenstein (181), the food-vacuoles of Infusoria exhibit changes which can be divided nto two periods : in the first the vacuole shows an acid reaction, and the ingested organisms are IdUed ; in the second the vacuole has an alkahne reaction, and the albumens are digested. According to Khainsky (170-5), however, the reaction of the food-vacuoles of Paramecium is acid during the entire period o the Proteolytic process, and only becomes neutral and finally alkahne when the solution of the food-substance is at an end. In the first or acid period, according to Nirenstem (181), the ingested food-particles-e.g., bacteria-after being rendered im- SL are clumped together, enveloped in a turbid substance whth makes their outhnes indistinct. The reaction of the vacuole Ts strongly acid, due to the presence of mineral acid m the vacuole DiTng fhl per od, which lasts from four to six minutes, the vacuole di^infshes in size, iU it is not more than one-third of its original size Wh n the vacuole was first formed, its wall was —ded by a Imber of granules which stain very distinctly with neutral-red number oi gi „^ .^^^Iv into the interior of the vacuole after Thtsir dS'Stnsiderably in si.e. Ni— .oga^s Tho red-staining granules as bearers of a trypUc ferment.