THE PROTOZOA 396 lated stages in the life-liistory. In the first place, the micro- gametes are very often fiagollated, as has been stated frequently m the two foregoing chapters. In the second place, the youngest stages in the development—the merozoites or sporozoites—exhibit structural features which are either those of a flagellate swarm- spore (Hartmann, 675 ; Schaudinn, 132), or can readily be derived from a flagellula in which the flagellar apparatus has become rudi- mentary, as in the sporozoites of gregarines, where the rostrum may be interpreted, with a high degree of probability, as representing a rudimentary flagellum. The existence of flagellated stages of the kinds mentioned in the development of the Telosporidia is by no means, however, a cogent argument for a flagellate ancestry for the group, since quite typical Sarcodma of all orders exhibit flagel- late swarm-spores and gametes. It may be urged that in the case of these types of Sarcodina, also, the existence of flagellate stages indicates a flagellate ancestry; but such an argument merely evades the question at issue, which is not whether the Telosporidia are derived from Flagellata indirectly through Sarcodine ancestors, but whether or not they are descended directly from ancestors that were typical Flagellata. The existence of flageUated swarm- spores and of gametes representing a modification of such swarm- spores is not sufficient of itself to prove a flagellate ancestrj'- for the Telosporidia. Far more cogent arguments for the flagellate afiinities of the Telosporidia maybe drawn from the characters of the adult forms, especially from the gregarine-type of body, elongated and ver- micular in character, and perfectly definite and constant in form, which occurs in every group of the Telosporidia at one point or another in the life-history. Such a type of body can be readily derived, as Butschli (2) pointed out, from an organism similar to Astasia or Euglena, in which the flagellar apparatus has been lost, and all special organs of nutrition, whether holozoic or holophytic, have disappeared in relation with the parasitic mode of life. On the other hand, the gregarine-type of body cannot be derived from the adult forms of the Sarcodina, which are typically amoeboid, and without any definite body-form other than that imposed by the physical nature of their body-substance. We may therefore consider the ancestral form of the Telosporidia to have been a flagellate organism with an elongated form of body, with a definite form, owing to the presence of a cuticle of a certain degree of thickness and toughness, and with a flagellar apparatus at the anterior end. Such a form would have been not unlike the leptomonads now found commonly as parasites of insect-guts ; but there is no reason to suppose the ancestral form to have had a kinetonucleus and the third type of flagellar insertion. Such a