THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 57 ever serve for other functions than that of locomotion, in flagel- lates' as well as in ciliates. In large, stout forms of trypanosomes, for example, the animal may remam perfectly still while its mem- brane is rippling actively, and in that case the function of the mem- brane is probably to cause currents in the fluid surroundmg the body, and to change and renew the liquid bathing the body-surface. In such a case it has been noted that the undulating membrane may from time to time reverse the direction of its movements the waves running for a time from the hinder end forwards, and then for a time in the opposite direction (Minchiii and Woodcock, p 150) It is probable that the undulatmg membranes which pass down the vestibule of Vorticellids can reverse their movements m a similar manner, since this passage serves both for passage of food- particles to the mouth and for the ejection of excreta from the anal pore and the contractile vacuoles. The only structures found in free-livmg Flagellata which can be compared at all with undulating membranes are the peculiar " collars " found m the Choanoflagellata (Fig. 110), and also m the collar-cells of sponges. Each collar is an extension of the ecto- plasm which grows up from the edge of a circular area round the insertion of the flagellum, formmg a membrane like a cufE or sleeve surrounding the basal portion of the flagellum, but quite distinct from the flagellum itself, and not formed in actual connection with it like the undulatmg membrane of a trypanosome. The collar differs further from a true undulating membrane in not being energetically motile, but only slowly protrusible and retractile. It has been stated, both for Choanoflagellates and for the collar-cells of sponges, that the collar is formed by a spirally-folded membrane. Their function appears to be that of assistuig m food-capture by a sessile, flagellated organism. (4) Contractile mechanisms in Protozoa, when they are visible, take the form of so-called myonemes, minute contractile fibrils run- ning in various directions in the ectoplasm, like an excessively minute system of muscle-fibres. Such elements are not found in Sarcodina or in the non-corticate forms of the other classes ; in naked forms with amcEboid movement the ectoplasm, as has been pointed out above, is only a temporary differentiation of the proto- plasmic body, which can arise by conversion of the endoplasm, and which can be changed back again into endoplasm. Myonemes occur commonly, however, in those Flagellata, Sporozoa, or Infusoria, which owe a definite body-form to the presence of a firm cuticle or cortex, representing a stable ectoplasm. The myonemes are often, however, extremely fine, and sometimes escape detection in cases in which we can infer their presence with certainty from the move- ments or contractions of the organism or of its ectoplasm. As a