THE PROTOZOA 290 whether it be the blood-suclcing invertebrate, or possibly the flesh or organs of another vertebrate infected with trypanosomes. Two methods of inoculative transmission of trypanosomes have been distinguished ; in the one, known as the " direct" or " mechan- ical" method, the parasites merely become contained in or adhere to the proboscis of the blood-sucking intermediary when it sucks blood from an infected animal; and when it feeds a second time the try- panosomes pass directly, and without having undergone any change or development, into the second host; in the other, known as the " indirect " or " cyclical" method, the trypanosomes, when taken up by the blood-sucking invertebrate, go through a developmental cycle in it, at the end of which, but not before, they are " ripe " for inocu- lation into a suitable vertebrate host. Comparing natural mth artificial processes of infection, in the direct method the blood- sucking invertebrate may be said to play the role merely of an injection-syringe, but in the indirect method it acts also as a culture- medium, in which the parasite passes through various phases and assumes forms quite different from those occurring in vertebrate blood. Patton (393) has put forward the view that transmission is always by the direct method, and that the crithidial and other forms found in the blood-sucking invertebrate are parasites of the invertebrate alone, and have no connection with the trypanosomes found in vertebrates ; but the number of cases in which it has now been shown clearly that trjrpanosomes go through a definite cycle in the invertebrate host disproves Patton's contention, and renders it unnecessary to discuss it further. It is rather the direct method that stands in need of further demonstration ; though undeniably possible as a laboratory-experiment, it may be doubted if it ever really occurs in Nature, and in any case it is probably to be regarded as a purely accidental rather than a normal occurrence. It has been frequently asserted or assumed that trypanosomes can pass from parent to offspring, by so-called " hereditary trans- mission," in the invertebrate host, but convincing proof of this state- ment is as yet lacking entirely. Attempts to prove hereditary trans- mission by direct experiment have given, for the most part, negative results, and the observation so frequently made, that leeches, tsetse- flies, fleas, mosquitoes, etc., bred from the egg and not exposed to infection, are entirely free from parasitic flagellates, affords cumu- lative evidence against the existence of any such method of trans- mission (c/. Kleine and Taute, 459). Brumpt (419), however, asserts that T. inopinatum is transmitted hereditarily from parent to off- spring of the leech Helohdella algira. According to Porter (554), " Griihidia " melophagia of the sheep-ked is also transmitted from parent to offspring in this insect; and if, as is extremely probable, the flagellate in question is the developmental phase of the trypano-