I'HE PROTOZOA 440 Order III : Hypotricha.—Ciliata typically of creeping habit; the body iiattoncd, with dorsal and ventral surfaces, the ciliation liighly modified and speeiahzed, usually with cirri on the ventral surface. Principal famihes: (1) Peritromidce, with cilia on the ventral surface; example : Pentromus. (2) Oxyirichidce, with cirri; examples: Oxytriclia, Uro- styla, Stylonyclna. (3) Euplotidce ; example : Euploies (Fig. 182). Order IV. : Peritricha.—Typically of sedentary habit, the locomotor cilia reduced to a single ring or absent temporarily or permanently; the adoral spiral runs down into a deep depression, the vestibule, into which open the anus and contractile vacuoles, and at the base of which is the mouth, leading into the oesophagus. Suborder 1 : Scaiotricha.—The adoral zone describes a left-handed spiral. Two families: (1) Spirochonidce : Spirochcna, ectozoic on the gill-plates of Gammarus pulex, has a non-contractile body which bears at the upper extremity a spirally-folded membranous funnel, on the inner side of which is a zone of cilia. Allied genera are Kentrochona and Kenirochonopsis, both ectozoic on the gill-plates of Nebalia. (2) Licnophoridce ; example : Licnophora, ectozoic on various marine animals (one species entozoic in the respiratory trees of Holothurians); attacliment by a sucker-like disc. Suborder 2 : Dexioiricha.—The adoral zone describes a right-handed spiral. Family: VorticeUidce, with three subfamihes : (a) Urceolarinm, unstalked, attached temporarily by a sucker or disc, surrounded by a persistent zone of locomotor cilia; examples: Trichodina, Cyclochceta. (6) Lagenopliryinm; example: Lagenophrys. (c) Vorticellince, with numerous genera: Vorticella, Carcliesium, Zoothamnium, etc., with contractile stalks ; Epistylis, Opercu- laria, Campanella (Fig. 183), Ophrydium, etc., with non-contractile stalks ; Coihurnia, Vaginicola, with sheaths ; Scyphidia, free-swimming. The entozoic Ciliata exhibit two different methods of nutrition : first, the holozoic method, in which the animals ingest solid food-particles, hke the free-living species, and possess in consequence a distinct mouth and contam food-vacuoles in their interior; secondly, the osmotic method, seen in the astomatous forms, which absorb fluid nutriment by diffusion from their host, and in which a mouth is rudimentary or absent and food-vacuoles are not found. The Cihata of the astomatous type represent the truly parasitic forms, a familiar example of which is the genus Opalina, with species parasitic in the common frog and other vertebrates. Common entozoic genera of the holozoic type are Balantidium and Nyctotherus, found in the digestive tracts of various animals ; such forms are perhaps for the most part scavengers; according to Comes {A.P.K., xv., p. 54), Balantidium nourishes itseff exclu- sively on red blood-corpuscles, which are set free in the intestine from wounds caused by other parasites, especially Trematodes. Species which inhabit the human intestine are Balantidium coli, B. minutum, and Nyctotherus faba. On the other hand, cihates may crop up in cultures of human faeces, which, like the amoeba; and flagellates fomid there, are not to be regarded as in- habitants of the human intestine, but as free-Hving forms which have passed tlirough the digestive tract in an encysted condition without being destroj'-ed, and germinate when set free from the gut. An example is Chilodon dentatvs (uncinatiis), described by Guiart from human fseces ; possibly also the ciliates described by Martmi (850) in a case of dysentery.] The free-living Ciliata exliibit, as a rule, great uniformity of character in the active state, occurring constantly in one specific form which only varies sbghtly in size under natural conditions; they are, in fact, as nearly as possible monomorphic. Some of the parasitic forms exhibit, how- ever, a well-marked recurring cycle of forms in relation to the special necessities of their mode of life, as is described beloAV (p. 450). In some free-living forms also different forms occur in the same species. The small free-swimnimg eonjugants (gametes, so called) of the sedentary Vorticellids have been noted above (p. 172). In Leucophrys patula, a free-swimming species, large and small individuals occur; but, according to Prowazek (861),