227 THE SARCODINA and herbs, or fruit that grows near the ground, are likely sources of infection by becoming contammated with the resting stage of the amcebo3 scattered on the ground or in manure. In this connection the further question arises whether the human entozoic amoebae are specific parasites of man or not, and conse- quently whether their infective stages would be derived only from human faeces, or from the excreta of other animals also. From general considerations of parasitism m Protozoa, it seems probable that the harmless E. coli is a specific parasite of man, but that the pathogenic forms are parasites of other animals also, and perhaps only occasionally find their way into the human body; in which case garden-manure might be a fruitful source of contamination, through the medium of vegetables habitually eaten uncooked, such as lettuce, celery, etc. None of these questions can be answered decisively at present, however, and there is a wide field of in- vestigation open. Greig and Wells found that in Bombay amoebic infection shows a marked seasonal variation, closely associated with variations in humidity, but not corresponding with those of temperature, and reaching its maximum in August. In addition to the various species of Amoeba and of allied genera and subgenera, a number of other genera are included in the section under consideration, for an account of which the reader must be referred to the larger treatises; but two deserve special mention—namely, the genera Pelomyxa and Paramceba. The species of Pelomyxa (Fig. 91) are fresh- water amoebae of large size and " sapropelic " habit of fife (p. 14). The body, which may be several millimetres in diameter, is a plasmodium in the adult condition, containing some hundreds of nuclei; it is generally very opaque, owing to the animal havmg the habit of loading its cytoplasm with sand and debris of all kinds, in addition to food in the form chiefly of diatoms. The pseudopodia are of the lobose type, blunt and rounded, but the animal may also form slender reticulose pseudopodia under certain conditions (Veley). The cytoplasm is very vacuolated, and contains a number of peculiar refringent bodies ("Glanzkorper") of spherical form, with an envelope m which bacterial organisms {Cladothrix pelomyxce, Veley) occur constantly. The bacteria naultiply by fission in a hnear series in the form of jointed rods, which may branch; as a rule they have five or six jomts, or less, but at least two. The refringent bodies are of albu- mmous nature (Veley). According to Gold- schmidt (57), the refrmgent bodies arise from the nuclei when they give off chromidia; in this r^X.tl. lL^S^S^Z^Zi tZT,"*'' Y f''V« ol the nucC Fig. 91.—Pelomyxa palus- tris: a specimen in which the body is transparent owing to the absence of food-particles and foreign bodies, showing the vacuolated cytoplasm and the numerous nuclei and refringent bodies (the refringent bodies are for the most part larger than the nuclei) in the living condition. After Greeff, magnified 60.