THE PROTOZOA 468 apparatus with kmetonucleus and trophonucleus, and a locomotor apparatus witli fiapllum and undulating membrane., Schaudiim further constructed a hypothetical form of " Urhcemoflagellat " connecting the spirocha;te and trypanosome type of organization ; he put forward the suggestion (903) that as the general structural plan of a trypanosome (nuclear and locomotor apparatus) may be f omid realized in various groups of Protozoa as a transitory developmental condition (comparable somewhat to the gastrula-condition in the Metazoa), so also the spirochajte may crop up occasionally as a morpho- logical type in the development of Protozoa, and as a developmental stage may indicate to us phylogenetic relations." Schaudinn lived long enough, fortunately, to retract many of his state monts wth regard to the structure of spirochajtes, and acknowledged that the trypanosome-type of structure was not to be made out in the minute parasitic spirochetes. Nevertheless, since his time the investigators of these organisms have been divided into two camps—those who hold fast to Schaudinn's theory of the spirochsetes as Protozoa, and those who class them with Bacteria, respectively; it being generally assumed, for some unknown reason, that it they are not Protozoa they must be Bacteria, or vice versa. A third set of authorities compromise by placmg the spirochsetes in an intermediate position between the two groups. In considering the question of the affinities of the spirochetes, attention has been directed not only to their structure, but also to their life-history; and a hot controversy has raged with regard to their mode of fission, whether it takes place longitudinally, as in a trypanosome, or transversely, as in a bacterium. Investigators contradict each other flatly with regard to this point; but from the most recent investigations it seems probable, at least, that the division is always transverse, and that the appearance of longitudinal division is due to the peculiar method of " incurvation " described by Gross (Fig. 194). A spirochaete about to divide grows greatly in length, and one end of the body doubles back on itseK, continuing to do so mitil the recurved limb of the body is of the same length as the remainder ; the two halves twist round each other and produce an appearance which may be mistaken easily for longitudinal fission ; but the actual division of the body takes place at the point where it is bent over, and is transverse. With regard to the development, nothmg has been found in the least con- firmatory of Schaudinn's statements with regard to " Spirochceta ziemanni," with the sole exception of the statements of lirzysztalowicz and Siedlecki (901), who profess to have seen trypanosome-stages in the development of Treponema pallidum ; but their statements are entirely unconfirmed by other investi- gators. Of a very opposite type are the statements of Leisliman (902) with regard to the development of S. duttoni in the tick. The spirochtete appears to break up into minute masses of chromatin, " coccoid granules," in the ova and tissue-cells of the tick. The coccoid granules appear to develop into spirocheetes again. The observations of Leishman have recently been fully confirmed by the in- vestigations on the development oi Spiroschaudinnia gallinarum published by Hindle (900)^ who gives a useful diagram of the entire life-history. Bosanquet (894) also observed the formation of coccoid bodies in Gristispira anodontm by the segmentation of the elongated body into a number of coccoid bodies like a string of beads. A development of this type suggests very strongly affinities with bacteria, but none whatever with Protozoa of any class. The coccoid grains may be compared with the spore-formation in bacteria, and with that described by Gross (898) in Saprospira grandis. In aU cases, tlirough- out the series of living beings, wherever an organism exhibits in its fully- developed "adult" stage peculiarities of a special kind, it is above all to the early developmental forms that the naturalist turns for indications of the true affinities of the organism in question. r „ , n Recently the structure of spirochtetes has been studied carefully by (.^ross (897, 898), Zuelzer (904), and Dobell (895), by means of proper cylological methods of technique. The results show a complete difference in every