122 THE PROTOZOA m size, and then grows slowly until the next division-period is reached. As a result of the slow "functional growth" of the nucleus, a disproportion between the mass of the nuclear substance cand that of the cytoplasm is brought about, producing a condition of tension between the nucleus and the cytoplasm (" Kernplasma- Spannung "). When the tension reaches a maximum, the nucleus acquires the power of growing rapidly at the expense of the cyto- plasm, and this " division-growth " leads to the fission of the cell, restormg the standard balance of nucleus and cytoplasm. Relative increase of the nuclear substance retards the cell-division, and brmgs about increase in the size of the cell; relative decrease of the nuclear mass has the opposite efiect. 2. Division of the Cell.—A distmction has been drawn above between binary fission, or division of the body mto two, and mul- tiple fission into many parts simultaneously. The daughter-indi- viduals produced in either case may be similar to the parent-indi- vidual in all respects except size, or may differ from it in lacking more or fewer of its characteristic parts and organs, which are then formed after the daughter-individuals are set free. In extreme cases one or more of the daughter-individuals may possess, when first liberated, no structure more elaborated than the essential jDarts of a cell, cytoplasm and nucleus or chromidia ; in such cases the daughter is termed a " bud," and the process of fission by which it arises is termed " budding " or gemmation, distinguished further as "simple gemmation" when only one bud is formed at a time, and " multiple gemmation " when many arise simultaneously. In many cases of multiple gemmation the parent-organism does not survive the process, but breaks up almost completely into buds, leaving only a greater or Icb? amount of residual protoplasm, which degene- ates and dies off ; budding of this land is termed sporulation. In binary fission, when the organism is of simple structure, as in the case of amoebae, the division is equally simple. After division of the nucleus, the two daughter-nuclei travel apart, and the body follows suit, by flowing, as it were, ua two opposite directions, forming two smaller individuals each with a nucleus, and con- nected at first by a protoplasmic bridge, which soon snaps and is drawn in. The contractile vacuole, if present, is taken over by one of the two daughter-mdividuals, while the other forms a new vacuole ; in many cases the normal number of contractile vacuoles is doubled before division begins. In forms of more complicated structure, the division also becomes a more complex process. Where the body-form is definite, the plane of cleavage bears usually a constant relation to it. Thus, in Ciliata the division of the body takes place typically transversely to its longitudinal axis, except in the order Peritricha. In Flagel-