THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 51 The pseudopodia of the filosc type adhere firmly to organisms suitable for food with wliich they come in contact, and it can be observed that the prey is both held fast and killed by them, in- dicating that the pseudopodia secrete some toxic substance in addition to that of an adhesive nature. In the reticulose type, diatoms and organisms of various kinds are entangled in the pseudopodial network (Fig. 21), and are generally digested there also. In a few cases pseudopodia exhibit a peculiar form of movement known as mdation. An example of this is seen in the remarkable Heliozoon described by Schaudinn (43) under the name Gamptonema nutans (Fig. 47), which possesses slender axopodia in which the axial Fia. 23.—Four stages in the ingestion of an OscLllarian filament (/.) by Amoeba verrucosa. In A the amcBba has crept along the filament; in B one end of the amoeba is bending up, and is about to fuse with the rest of the body, producing a twist in the filament; in C two have been produced ; in Z) a considerable length of the filament has been drawn into the amoeba, and is twisted up into a stout coil. A, B, and 0, are drawn at intervals of quarter of an hour, D several hours later. After Rhumbler (34). filament does not extend the whole length of the pseudopodium. The pseudopodia perform a slow rotating movement, and "describe the mantle of a cone, sometimes acute, sometimes obtuse, remaining stretched out straight for their entire length, and bending only at their base." Similar movements are performed by the pseudopodia of Trichosphcerium (p. 229) and Wagnerella (p. 246). In Gamptonema the pseudopodia also have the power of bending suddenly when brought in contact with prey, which they capture like the tentacles of a polyp. The bending takes place beyond the point at which the axial filament ceases. Movements of tills kind are transitional to those seen in flageUa. (2) FlageDa are vibratile thread-like extensions of the protoplasm, capable of performing very complicated lashing movements in