405 THE NEOSPORIDIA vegetative nuclei and two spores. Each spore (Fig. 166, L) consists of (1) a sporocyst composed of two valves, each secreted by a parietal cell; (2) two polar capsules, each secreted by a capsulogenous cell; (3) a binucleate amcBbula, the sporozoite or sporoplasm. When the spore is fully formed, the cells which form the valves and polar capsules are used up and degenerate, remnants only of their nuclei being visible. The spores represent the propagative phase, and the trophozoite with its vegetative nuclei degenerates. The Myxosporidia Polysporea differ from the Disporea in that the plasrno- dium contains a great number of nuclei, some of which are purely vegetative in function, others generative ; and the plasmodium produces in its interior numerous spores, which are always formed in couples. This peculiarity is due to the fact that the two sporoblasts arise from a cell-complex which is termed a "pansporoblast," producing two sporoblasts and two spores. Spore-formation in Polysporea has been studied in Spliceromyxa sabrazesi (not labrazesi), from the gall-bladder of Hippocampus, by Schroder (767 and 768), and in Myxobolus pfeifferi, a deadly tissue-parasite of the barbel, by Keysselitz. Their results are almost identical in each case, except for minor details, and are in the main as follows (Figf. 167, 168). The generative nuclei of the plasmodium become the centres of a condensed patch of protoplasm (Fig. 168, A), forming a " propagative cell " (Keysselitz). These cells may multiply with mitosis of the nuclei for a while, but finally proceed to spore-formation. The nucleus of a propagative cell divides into two, a larger and a smaller, and division of the cell follows sooner or later (Fig. 167, A ; Fig. 168, B, C). Two sueh couples of cells become associated, and the two smaller cells form an envelope surrounding the two larger cells, which by their association form the pansporoblast (Fig. 167, B, 0 ; Fig. 168, D). Hence the pansporoblast is from the first a complex of two distinct cells, and not, as was formerly supposed, a single cell. The two cells of the pansporoblast may be termed gamonts, since they give rise ultimately to gametes, but not to gametes alone, like the gametocytes of Geratomyxa. The cytoplasm of the two gamonts may fuse into one mass, but the nuclei remain separate and undergo repeated divisions, until the pansporoblast within its envelope contains twelve nuclei, and may consist of as many separate cells (Fig. 167, D ; Fig. 168, E). The nuclei or cells then become arranged in a definite manner ; eight of them take up a peripheral position, four of them place themselves more centrally (Fig. 167, E). The four central cells are the gametes ; their nuclei imdergo reducing divisions, and the four cells then pair off into two couples ; in each couple the cytoplasmic bodies of the two cells fuse together, but their nuclei remain distinct. It is probable that in each couple one nucleus is descended from that of one of the two original propagative cells, the other nucleus from that of the other. At this stage the pansporoblast divides into two masses, the sporoblasts Fig. 167 continued: tion-nuclei beginning to degenerate ; the envelope-nuclei are not represented ; K, the pansporoblast beginning to divide into two sporoblasts ; within the envelope are seen also some small bodies of doubtful nature ; F, the two sporoblasts completely separated, between them two residual nuclei; each sporoblast has six nuclei, four peripheral, two central; at the two extremities of the sporoblast the polar capsules are beginning to be formed ; 0, one of the two sporoblasts at a later stage, showing two parietal cells, situated superficially; two nuclei of the capsulogenous cells, each near a polar capsule; the two germinal nuclei close together at the centre; and a residual nucleus attached to the surface ; //, I, further stages in the development of the sporoblast; /, pansporoblast with two spores almost fully formed, and the two residual nuclei; each spore has a polar capsule (2;.c.) at each end, and near it a nucleus of the capsulogenous cell (n.c.) ; two largo parietal nuclei [n.r).) in process of degeneration ; and two germinal nuclei {n.g.) ; K L M fullv- fornied spores ; in K and M the two germinal nuclei arc still separate, in ^ they have undergone fusion ; in M the two polar filaments are extruded. After Schroder (767 and 768).