435 THE INFUSORIA — c.v. N— plete turns, pass down into the vestibule, at the bottom of which is the mouth, leading into a short oesophagus (Fig. 183, m, 035.). The vestibule, into which the faeces and the excretions of the contractile vacuoles are evacuated, forms a sort of cloaca, combining, as it were, the functions of a stomodseum and a proctodseum. The body of a ciliate Infusorian is composed of ectoplasm and endoplasm, the fii-st of these two regions being highly differentiated and complex in structure. The surface of the entire body is clothed by a peUicle (Fig. 185, p.)—the most superficial differentiation of the ectoplasm—usually in the form of a thin, delicate membrane, which is sometimes, however, greatly thickened to form a cuirass or lorica. In addition to the mouth and anal pore ah-eady men- tioned, the peUicle is perforated by the openings of the contractile vacuoles, one or more in number. The cilia also pass through the peUicle. Beneath the pellicle the ecto- plasm, in its full development, may be differentiated into four layers, which, however, are not all of them invariably present. The most external layer of the ecto- plasm is the so-caUed alveolar layer (Fig. 185, aZ.), consisting of the outermost stratum of the alveoli of the protoplasmic framework, which take a regular arrangement, the walls between contiguous alveoli being disposed vertically to the pellicle, thus giving the appearance of a radially-striated layer. Within the alveolar layer is found commonly a protoplasmic zone containing small, spindle- shaped bodies—the so-called trichocysts (Fig. 185, «m.)—from which a long, stiff thread is discharged upon suitable sthnulation. Within the trichocyst-layer comes a contractile layer, containmg myonemes which run primitively beneath, or paraUel to, the rows of cilia at the surface. The cilia themselves take origm from basal granules placed externally to, or between, the myonemes, and pass to the exterior between the alveoli of the alveolar layer. The most internal stratum of the ectoplasm is a spongy protoplasmic zone traversed by irregular spaces and channels containmg fluid and representing an excretory layer. The liquid from this region drains mto the contractile vacuole or vacuoles. The smaller channels cm Fig. 184.—Chilodon cucullulus. 0, Mouth ; ph., pharynx surrounded by a supporting apparatus of rods; N, macronucleus; c.v., c.v., con- tractile vacuoles ; an., anus, tem- porarily visible during the extrusion of faecal matter {ex.). After Stein.