13 CHAPTER II THE MODES OF LIFE OF THE PROTOZOA Protozoa, as simple protoplasmic organisms, can only exist in an active state in a fluid medium. Hence the free-living, non-parasitic forms are aquatic, either marine or fresh-water in habitat. A certain number of species, however, are semi-terrestrial in their mode of life, creeping on damp surfaces or living in a minimum of moisture. Examples of such forms are the Amoebae, etc., found in the soil, or Mycetozoa, which in the plasmodial phase (p. 239) creep on tree-trunks, logs, and so forth. None of these forms,, however, can remain active in perfectly dry surroundings, but pass into a resting state when desiccated. It has been stated already that the methods by which Protozoa gain their livelihood vary greatly in different cases. Considered generally, these methods may be classified under four types : I. The majority of Protozoa nourish themselves after the manner of animals—that is to say, they are entirely dependent for food and sustenance on other organisms which they capture, devour, and digest. Such forms are said technically to be holozoic, a word sig- nifying " completely animal-like "; they are unable to utilize simpler chemical substances in order to build up the protein constituents of the living body, but require proteins ready-made for their sustenance. II. A certain number of Protozoa—all, with rare exceptions, belonging to the class Mastigophora—possess in their body-sub- stance peculiar colour-bearmg corpuscles, so-called chromatopJiores or chromoplasts, containing chlorophyll or a pigment of allied nature, by means of which they are able to decompose carbon dioxide in the sunlight, hberating the oxygen and making use of the carbon m order to build up the protein and other constituents of the hving body. Such organisms are entirely similar in their metabohsm to the ordinary green plants, and are hence termed holophytic or ' completely plant-Uke." nJ^r>/'?J,°^^^^'^''°"'^'J'??'^'? '^^'''^ chlorophyll-bodies form an integral lu jL ? body, and are to be regarded simply as proto- plasmic organs, must be distinguished carefully from a state of things often