THE HiEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 315 addition to these four types of active flagellates, there may occur also non-flagellated individuals or with the flagellum rudimentary— namely, (5) long " gregariniform" individuals (Fig. 136, E—G; Fig. 137, q) and (6) oval or rounded ie*57imama-forms. The latter may become encysted and function as the propagative stages. If the four active forms are all distinct species, one and the same host may have intestinal flagellates belonging to four different genera ; if they are all phases in the development of one species, it becomes a subtle point for discussion which of the four forms is to be regarded as the " adult " generic type. Fig. 137.—Flagellates from the digestive tract and Malpighian tubules of Dro- sophila confusa. a, h, c, Trypanosoma drosophilce, three forms, from the Malpighian tubides; d—q, various forms of Leptomonas drosophilce from the intestine : d, e, f, leptomonad forms ; g, crithidial form ; h, i, transitional forms from the preceding to j, k, the leptotiypanosome-forms ; m, n small cnthidial (" barley-grain ") forms ; o, p. forms transitional from the preceding to q, gregarmiform mdividuals attached to the epithelium by a rudimentary flagellum, the middle one of the three in process of division. After Chatton and Leger (533). Not in every case, however, does such complexity of form occur in the same host. The development of a typical leptomonad, such as L. (H.) jaculum of Nepa cmerea, as described by Porter (556), is of a comparatively simple type, hJie that of Grithidia gerridis described above. Non-flagellated Leish manza-like mdividuals give rise to flagellates of the true leptomonad type wh>ch multiply by fission ; these in their turn pass into a non-flagellated condition 111 the hind-gut, there becoming encysted and being cast out lith the feces to infect new hosts. Prowazek (557) has described in H. musccB-dojnes. hcce an extraordinary complication of male and female types-av^ogaZ parthenogenesis of female forms, and " etheogenesis " of male formsTS of these statements can be accepted as even probable until the weighty si'per struc ure of theoretical nterpretation is supported by a more f bstantial sp" : irhis so°X'''Jtf" ""^"^-"^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^-^ by Prowazek especially his so-called etheogenesis," represent stages in the development of Plu'DunCv belonging to the group Flagellata ; compare