THE NUCLEUS 87 for the cell ; then, when cell-division takes place, the kinctonucleus first divides', and the two products of its division place themselves on each side of the trophonucleus and act as its centrosomes, as described by Franca and Athias (56)* ; (6) the trophonucleus may have a centrosome of its own, lodged in the karyosome, m addition to the centrosome-blepharoplast in connection with the kmeto- nucleus ; this is probably the most usual condition with two sub- ordinate variations, according as the centrosome-blepharoplast is lodged within the Idnetonucleus, a,B in Leishmania tropica (Wenyon, 84), or is situated close beside it, as in most trypanosomes; in either case the kinctonucleus and trophonucleus divide quite independently of one another, as commonly seen; (c) it is possible, but perhaps not very probable, that in some cases there may be a blepharoplast for the flagellum distinct from the centrosomes of the two nuclei; such a condition, perhaps, occurs in Trypanoplasma. In all cases alike, division is initiated by the centrosome from which the flagellum arises; next the kinctonucleus, and lastly the tropho- nucleus, divide. The various forms of flagellar insertion described in the foregoing para- graphs admit of a simple and uniform phylogenetic explanation. Starting with a non-flagellated organism in which a simple protokaryon contaiiis a single centriole (Fig. 44, 0="), we may suppose the flagellum at its first origin to grow out from the centriole in the nucleus {0^). No such condition is actuaUy known amongst flagellates, though it may be compared to the origin of the axopodia from a central gr'ain in an Actinophrys-type of Heliozoon (see below); in the flagellates the centrosome-blepharoplast always, ap- parently, moves out of the nucleus, either remaining in close proximity to it (1'^) or becoming quite independent of it (1''), the two variations of the first type. The second type may be derived by division of the centrosome-blepharo- plast to form the definitive centriole and the blepharoplast; the latter may also remain in close proximity to the nucleus (2^) or become quite independent of it (2^). The third type may be supposed to arise from the hypothetical primitive condition (0") by supposing that, not the blepharoplast-centrosome alone, but the whole nucleus, divides to form two nuclei of unequal size and distmct function, the trophonucleus and kinctonucleus, each with its own centriole (3'^, 3^). The centriole of the kinetonucleus, which is at the same time the blepharoplast, may either remain within the kinetonucleus (3*^) or come out of it (3"=); its relations to the kinetonucleus are parallel to those of the centro- some-blepharoplast to the nucleus in types P and 1'^. Or, on the other hand, the centrosome-blepharoplast may divide into a definitive kinetonuclear centrosome and a true blepharoplast (3"). The condition with only a single centriole for both the nuclei may, if it exists, be derived from 3-' or 3'' by supposing that the trophonuclear centrosome becomes atrophied. When a blepharoplast exists independently of the nuclear apparatus, it may retain the form of a single grain or basal granule of the flagellum, when tliis organ is single, or it may multiply to * The statements of Franca and Athias are not, however, confirmed by Lebedeff (468), and it may be doubted whether any species of trypanosorao or other " binu- cleate " exists which has but a single division-centre in the cell.