THE PROTOZOA 246 Each primary cyst then divides into two secondary cysts, which after nuclear reduction become the gametes and copulate. Tlie zygote develops into a young ActinospJicerium with several nuclei, which emerges from the cyst and begins a vegetative life, but appears to divide frequently at the start into uninucleate, ActinophrysAike forms. In other genera, on the other hand, and especially in those of the Acanthocystis-ty^e {Acanthocystis, ClathruUna, and Wagnerella), flagellate swarm-spores are formed, which probably represent gametes, as in many other Sarcodina, The life-history of Wagnerella has recently been studied in detail by Zuelzer (86); her investigations reveal a diversity in its modes of reproduction almost as great as that seen in Arcella, and mdicate that there is much yet to be discovered with regard to the life-cycles of other forms. Wagnerella exhibits, according to Zuelzer, dimorphism correlated with alternation of generations. In June and July stout forms are observed, which are believed to arise from the conjugation of gametes; they reproduce by binary fission, and by a process of schizogony giving rise to amcebula? (agametes). The more usual form, on the other hand, is smaller and more slender, and multiplies by binary fission, gemmation, and formation of flagellate swarm-spores. Hence this peculiar form reproduces in a variety of ways. In the process of binary fission the nucleus migrates from the base up the stalk into the head, and places itseK beside the central grain, which divides, its two halves passing to opposite sides of the nucleus ; then the nucleus follows suit and divides also. Divisions of the central grains, and subsequently of the corresponding nuclei, may be repeated until eight to ten nuclei and as many central grains are present. Each nuclear division is followed by division of the head, at first incomplete, so that a condition results resembling the colonial form BhajMdiophrys, a number of daughter- individuals united together, and each sending out pseudopodia (Fig. 102, D). After a time the colony breaks up, the daughter-individuals separate, and each one fixes itself and grows into the adult Wagnerella-form. Bud-formation in Wagnerella (Fig. 102, A—C) is initiated by division of the karyosome within the nucleus, which retains its position in the base. The process is repeated until the nucleus contains a number of karyosomes, each with a centriole. The nucleus then buds off one or more small daughter- nuclei, each containing a single karyosome. Sometimes the nucleus breaks up entirely into as many daughter-nuclei as there are karyosomes, in which case the parent-individual dies off, in a manner similar to Arcella (p. 180), after liberation of the buds. Each daughter-nucleus migrates up the stalk into the head, where it becomes surrounded by a layer of protoplasm to form the bud, which is set free at first as an amoeboid body. Before or after being set free, the bud may multiply by binary fission with mitosis, in which the centriole in the karyosome acts as a centrosome. Finally each amoeboid body develops into a Wagnerella, and in the process the centriole passes out of the nucleus and becomes the central grain, while the nucleus becomes displaced from the centre. In the process of gemmation the central grain of the parent-individual takes no share whatever. In the formation of the swarm-spores, minute secondary nuclei arise from chromidia near the principal nucleus in the base. Each secondary nviclcus forms a centriole and divides by mitosis ; the division is repeated until the whole body, stalk and head as well as base, is filled with small nuclei, while the primary nucleus degenerates. The body then divides up into as many cells as there are secondary nuclei, each cell becoming a biflagellate swarm- spore which is set free, while the parent-individual degenerates. The destniy of the swarm-spores is uncertain, but they are believed to be gametes.