THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 63 ingested as food are suspended and gradually digested. In some cases, however, and especially when the prey is relatively large, no distinct fluid vacuole can be made out surrounding it, but the food appears to be simply lodged in the endoplasm itself ; the vacuole is " virtual." When the digestion is completed, the in- soluble f^cal residues are cast out of the body. In Protozoa in which the body consists of naked, non-corticate protoplasm, the food is ingested, and the faecal remains are expelled, at any point on the surface of the body. In corticate Protozoa, on the other hand, in which the body is limited by a resistant envelope or cuticle of a certain strength and thickness, food can- not be ingested at any point, but is taken in through a special aperture, a cell-mouth or cytostome. In such cases the organs of food-capture are either flagella or cilia, and by their action the food is wafted into the mouth. Primitively the mouth is a superficial aperture in the cuticle, opening into the endoplasm by means of a longer or shorter tube, the oesophagus or cytopharynx. In the Peritricha (p. 433), however, the mouth and oesophagus are, as it were, carried into the body at the end of an in-sinking of the ecto- plasm, which forms a long tube or vestibule, comparable in its mode of formation to the stomodagum of the Metazoa. In any case the food-vacuoles are formed at the bottom of the oesophagus, in the endoplasm. The mode in which the vacuoles arise, and the processes of digestion and defaecation, are discussed in a subsequent chapter (p. 189, infra). 2. In holophytic forms assimilation is carried on by cell-organs of the same nature as those found in the green cells of ordinary plants. Of primary importance are the chromatophores, or chromo- plasts, bodies containing chlorophyll or allied pigments by means of which the organism is enabled to decompose carbon dioxide in the sunlight, setting free the oxygen and utilizing the carbon for build- ing up the living substance. The chromatophores vary greatly as regards size, form, and number present in the cell-body. Other bodies of constant occurrence are pyrenoids, small glistening cor- puscles which appear to serve as centres for the formation or storage of starch or similar substances of amyloid nature produced in the process of anabolism (see infra, p. 188). In any Protozoa, whatever their mode of nutrition, the endo- plasm contains usually various enclosures, which can be classed generally as metaplastic—that is to say, as products of the upward (anabolic) or downward (catabolic) metabolism of the living sub- stance. Instances of anabolic products are the grains of starch or of the allied substance, paramylum, found in the holophytic forms, and the reserve food-materials—fat, " paraglycogen," and other substances—often stored up in considerable quantity in prepara-