THE PROTOZOA 376 ?n S ^P^- I",<^heso cases the invertebrate host appears to be always arthropod. The only life-cycle of such forms which has S described completely is that of the parasite of the leucocytes of rats, which has been described by Miller under the name Hepatozoon perniciosum This parasite appears to be identical with that named by Balfour (694) Leucocylo- zoon muris and by Adie L. ratti; its correct name, therefore, is HceLgregarina (Hepatozoon) muris. According to Miller, this parasite causes lethal epidemics amongst tame rats, but in London it occurs commonly in the blood of wild sewer-rats, and appears to be quite harmless to them. It is a parasite of world- wide distribution, apparently, having been recorded from rats in the Puniaub (Adie). liliartouin (Balfour), North America (Miller), Brazil (Carini), and various other parts of the world (see Franca and Pinto, A.I.B.G.P., iii., p. 207) The hfe-eycle of H. muris, according to Miller, is in the main as follows- Ihe sporozoites are liberated in the intestine of the rat, and pass through the wall of the gut into the blood-stream ; they may be found in the circulation twenty-lour hours after infection. Ultimately the sporozoites reach the liver and penetrate into liver-cells ; in this situation they grow into schizonts, which when full-grown sporulate to produce some twelve to twenty, usually about sixteen, merozoites. The merozoites may penetrate into liver-cells again and repeat the schizogony, or they may pass out into the capillaries of the hver; m the latter event they are taken up by leucocytes, doubtless as an act of phagocytosis. The merozoites are able, however, to resist any digestive action of the leucocytes ; they become encapsuled in the leucocytes, and in this state they are carried into the general circulation. They do not increase in size in the leucocytes, and their further development, so far as the rat is concerned, is at an end. Hence the " leucocytozoon " of the rat is an encapsuled merozoite of a hsemogregarine which, strictly speaking, is a para- site of the rat's liver, and not of the blood at aU ; in the leucocytes its role is one merely of passive resistance. These merozoites represent at the same time the sporonts, the propagative phase which develops further in the inverte- brate host, in this case a rat-mite, Lcelaps echidninus, which sucks the rat's blood, and so takes up the parasite into its stomach. In the stomach of the mite the hsemogregarines are set free as motile vermi- cules which associate in couples. According to Miller, this association is a true copulation of two gametes which fuse into a zygote ; from the analogy of the life-cycle described above, it is more likely that some stages have been overlooked, and that the vermicules are gametocytes which associate, with subsequent production of gametes by the male and fertilization of the female by a mierogamete. The zygote, however formed, becomes a motile ookinete which passes through the wall of the gut into the body-cavity of the mite, and there forms an oocyst which, like that of the malarial parasites, has a thin wall, permitting the parasite to absorb nourishment from the surroimding tissues and to grow .to a large size. When full-grown, the contents of the oocyst divide up into a large number of sporoblasts, each of which becomes surrounded by a delicate sporocyst. The contents of the spore divide up into some twelve to twenty sporozoites, and then the development of the parasite is at an end so far as the mite is concerned. The cyst and spores are the propagative phase, and in order that they may develop the mite must be eaten by a rat; if this occurs, 'the sporozoites are liberated in the stomach and the cycle is complete. In the case of other mammalian hsemogregarines, fragments of the develop- ment are known which indicate a life-cycle similar in the main to that of H. muris, allowing for specific differences. Forms parasitic in the red blood- corpuscles are H. gerbilli of Gerbillus indicus (Christophers, 699); H. bcdfouri (jaculi) of the jerboa (Balfom-, 693); and the three species recently described by Welsh and others (Journ. Path. JBact., xiv.) from marsupials, one of which (H. peramelis) is remarkab e for having been found only in the free, extra- corpuscular condition. The rchizogony of H. gerbilli has not been described, but that of H. jaculi takes place in the liver, and is of two types, producing in the one case a large number of small merozoites, in the other a small