THE MASTIGOPHORA 265 The syiigamy of Copromonas is thus seen to be a case of perfect isogamy, and is probably to be regarded as representing a very primitive type, whence the more complex sexual processes of other Flagellata have been evolved—(1) by greater specialization and differentiation of the gametes in their relation to other phases of the life-cycle (gamete-formation) and to one another (sexual differ- entiation) ; (2) by correlation of the sexual phases with definite crises, to which they become restricted, in the general life-cycle. In the Rhizomastigina sexual processes occur of a type resembling those found in the Sarcodma to such an extent as to indicate that the affinities of this group is rather closer to some of the primitive Rhizopods than to typical FlageUata. The life-cycle (Fig. 112) has been worked out in full detail in Mastigella vitrea by Goldschmidt (41). Vegetative reproduction in the free state is by binary fission of the ordinary type, and occurs when food is abun- dant ; a faUmg-off in the supply of nutriment leads to gamete-formation and syngamy. In the earUest stages of the sexual generation a differentiation of the individuals into macrogametocytes and microgametoeytes is to be observed, though externally they are similar to ordinary individuals and contmue their vegetative life durmg the early stages of gamete-formation. In the macrogametocyte, first a quantity of nucleolar substance, and then of chromatin, is set free from the nucleus ; these two substances unite to form a chromidial mass from which a number of secondary nuclei are formed. The secondary nuclei become scattered through the cytoplasm, and each- becomes surrounded by a protoplasmic body. The small cell thus formed IS a macrogamete, which goes through reducing divisions. The still active macrogametocyte, wliich has its cytoplasm crammed with the small gametes, now becomes encysted. Within the cyst the gametes acquire flageUa and become motile. At this stage the original nucleus of the gametocyte breaks up and disappears rather suddenly. FmaUy the cyst-waU is ruptured and the flagellated gametes escape. The formation of the microgametes takes place in a mamier essentially similar to that already described for the macrogametes, but with a few ditterences m detail. The microgametoeytes become encysted at the very begmmng of the process ; then formation of chromidia begins, and as soon as It IS completed the primary nucleus degenerates; the microgametes have no flagella, and are shot out of the cyst when it bursts. The free macrogametes measure on the average' about 3-6 u diameter, and have a flageUum 15 to 18 ^ in length; the microgametes are 2-8 a ill diameter, and have no f^agellum. A macrogamete seeks out a microgamete and fuses with it, cytoplasm and nucleus. The zygote retains the flageUum of the macrogamete, and becomes a smaU, monad-like individual which multiphes by fission as such. After several generations the monads cease in Jv, '''' ^ grows up into an adult Mastigella. A development ^h^ nl,.«^« """"fi,-' ^"bed by Goldschmidt for Mastigina, but some of tHe phases escaped his observation. Comparing the sexual cycle of Mastigella (Fig. 112) with that of Copromonas (Fig. Ill), the chief difference is seen to be that in the former an ordinary individual does not become a gamete directly but a gametocyte, which by a process of multiple fission gives rise to a generation of minute swarm-spores, the gametes. In the two sexes a slight differentiation of the gametes is seen. Further, in the hfe-cycle of Mastigella considered as a whole, there are two forms of mdividuals, each capable of multiplying vegetatively for many