421 THE NEOSPORIDIA clear which part of the spore contains the amoBbula which is liberated from it, as presently to be described. j ^ In addition to spores having the complicated structure described tor those of S. tenella, there appear to be also spores of much simpler structure, as, for example, in 8. miiris. Apparently the more complicated spore is propa- gative in function, serving to infect new hosts, while the simpler form, which should perhaps be regarded rather as a sporoblast, as a simple ceU not difler- entiated as a spore, serves for spreading the infection in the same host. The occurrence of the simpler type of spore in 8. muris would account for the manner in which this parasite overruns its host, and is usually lethal to it, while 8. tenella, which appears to produce chiefly propagative spores, is a harmless parasite. How far these suggestions are true must be determined by future investigations. The discovery made by Smith, mentioned above, that mice could be infected with 8. muris by feeding them with the flesh of other infected mice, has been confirmed and extended by other observers. According to Negre, the faeces of mice which have been fed with infected muscular tissue are infective to other mice if ingested by them ; they possess this power about fifteen to sixty days after the mouse was fed with muscle containing Sarcosporidia, and retain their infectivity even if kept dry in an open bottle for a month, or heated to 65° C. for fifteen minutes. Negri was able to infect guinea-pigs with 8. rmiris by feeding them with the flesh of infected mice, and found that in the guinea- pig the parasite appeared with quite different char- acters from those which it presents in the mouse, so that it might be taken easily for a distinct species. Darling also infected guinea-pigs with 8. muris in the same way, and points out the resemblance between the experimental sarcosporidiosis of the guinea-pig and a case of human sarcosporidiosis observed by him; it is suggested that the sarco- —Spores sporidia occasionally observed in the human subject ^rcocystis ^tenella. are those of some domestic animal undergoing a condition • B after modified or abortive development in a host that is staining with iron- not their usual one. Erdmann also infected mice hematoxylin - N. with 8. tenella in a simiiar manner. It is remarkable nucleus ; c, striated' that parasites generally so harmless should be so body (po'lar'capsule ?). little specific to particular hosts, and the results of After Laveran and Negri render the value of the characters used for Mesnil. distinguishing species of Sarcosporidia as doubtful in their validity as the distinctions founded on their occurreiice in certain hosts. According to Erdmann (791), the spore germinates in the intestine of the new host, and the first act in the process is the liberation from the spore of its toxin, sarcocystine, which causes the adjacent epithelium of the intestine to be thrown off. At the same time an amoebula is set free from the spore ; and, owing to the intestine being denuded of its lining epithelium, the amcebula is able to penetrate into the lymph-spaces of the submucous coat and establish itself there. Before this happens, however, the metachromatinic grains of the spore disappear, and it is suggested that this disappearance is related to the secretion of the sarcocystine, and that the toxin is contained in the mctachro- matinic grains. If, however, a polar capsule be discharged during the germina- tion of the spore, as in other Cnidosporidia, it might well bo that the toxin IS contained m the polar capsule, and is set free by its discharge, like the poison in the nematocysts of the Coslontera. However that may be, it would appear as if the sarcocystine were a weapon, as it were, the function of which IS to facilitate the invasion of the germ, the amoebula, by destroying the linin<T epithelium of the gut. " The liberation of the amcebula from the spore initiates the first period ot the development, which is passed in the lymph-spaces of the intestine, ana which lasts, according to Erdmann, some twenty-eight to thirty days.