THE H.EMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 299 senting the principal multiplicative phase in the invertebrate host; it is a form in which the kinetonucleus is placed in front of, or close beside, the trophonucleus, and in which, consequently, the undu- lating membrane is confined to the anterior region of the body, and may be quite rudimentary. As a rule the body of the trypano- monad is shorter, stifFer, more pear-shaped, than in the typical try- panosome-form ; no longer sinuous and flexible, it is held straight and rigid in progression, which is effected almost entirely by the flagellum. In many cases, however, the free flagellum is very short, and used to attach the organism to the lining of the digestive tract. Besides the trypanomonad form, the developmental cycle may also include many other types of form, and often exhibits a degree of polymorphism which is most bewildering, and compared to which the diversity of form seen in the vertebrate host is but slight. Taking the development of T. lewisi in the rat-flea as a tjrpical example, the parasites when taken up by the flea pass with the ingested blood into the stomach (mid-gut) of the insect. In this part they multiply actively in a peculiar manner, not as yet de- scribed in the case of any other trypanosome in its invertebrate host (Fig. 130) ; they penetrate into the cells of the epithelium, and in that situation they grow to a very large size, retaining their flagellum and undulating membrane, and exhibiting active metabolic changes in the form of the body, which in early stages of the growth is doubled on itself in the hinder region, thus becoming pear-shaped or like a tadpole in form, but later is more block-like or rounded. During growth the nuclei multiply, and the body when full-grown approaches a spherical form, and becomes divided up Avithin its own periplast into a number of daughter-individuals, which writhe and twist over each other like a bunch of eels within the thin envelope enclosing them. When this stage is reached, the flagellum, which hitherto had been performing active movements and causing the organism to rotate irregularly within the cell, disappears altogether, and the metabolic movements cease ; the body becomes almost perfectly spherical, and consists of the periplast-envelopa within which a number of daughter-trypanosomes are wriggling very actively ; the envelope becomes more and more tense, and finally bursts Avith explosive suddenness, setting free the flagellates, usually about eight in number, within the host-cell. The products of this method of multiplication are full-sized trypanosomes, complete in their structure, and differing but slightly in their characters from those found in the blood of the rat. They escape from the host-cell into the lumen of the stomach. To the intracellular multiplicative phase in the stomach a crithidial phase in the rectum succeeds (Fig. 131). In the fully- established condition the rectal phase consists of small pear-shaped