THE PROTOZOA 60 of the observations upon which they are founded, and that they lack confirmation entirely.* 3. Organs apparently of excretory function are present ui many Protozoa as the so-called " contractile vacuoles," one or more droplets of clear liquid which make their appearance in the ectoplasm, grow to a certain size, and then burst, emptying their contents to the exterior. When the contractile vacuole reaches its full size, it often bulges inwards far beyond the limits of the ectoplasm, and hence may appear to lie in the endoplasm; but its first appearance is always in the ectoplasm, to which it strictly belongs. In non-corticate amoeboid forms the contractile vacuoles simply empty themselves to the exterior, and the changing form of the body does not pormit of determining whether the position of the vacuole is a constant one. It is common in amoebse for the vacuole to be lodged in the region of the body which is hindmost in progres- sion ; but this may be simply the mechanical consequence of the streaming movements in the protoplasm, whereby the vacuole is carried along to the hinder end of the body. In corticate forms, on the other hand, the contractile vacuoles are constant both in number and position, and void their contents through a definite pore in the cuticle, directly or indirectly ; in many Flagellata and Infusoria, for instance, the vacuoles do not discharge directly to the exterior, but into the oesophagus or into a reservoir-vacuole communicating with the oesophagus. The growth of the contractile vacuole is caused by fluid draming into it from the body-protoplasm. In amoebse and forms of simple structure no channels supplying the contractile vacuole are visible, and it must be supjDosed to be fed by a process of diffusion through the protoplasm from all parts of the body. In the highly-organized ciliate Infusoria, however, the deepest layer of the ectoplasm has a loose, spongy texture, and forms a definite excretory layer full of spaces contaming fluid, which drains into one or more main canals * It must be added further that, to judge from the figures left by Schaudinn and published on Plate xxix. of his collected works (" Fritz Schaudinn's Arbei- ten," Hamburg and Leipzig, 1911), the statements cited above appear to be founded on preparations made by a method of technique which is recognized generally as giving unsound cytological results—namely, the method of dried films stained by the Romanowsky stain. Schaudinn's statements are nevertheless cited above on account of the numerous theoretical discussions and speculations in modem protozoological and cytological literature of which they have been the foundation. For my part, I disbelieve entirely in the theory that the flagellum represents a centrodesmose between two centrosomes ; I regard it as a siraple outgrowth from a blepharoplast of a nature essentially similar to the axopodium of a Heliozoon. It is curious that no one has as yet extended Schaudinn's theory to the axopodia, the axial filament of which should also represent a centrodesmose, if that view is correct for the axial filament of the flagellum, a view that seems to me quite unthinkable from a phylogenetic standpoint. Is it to be supposed that the formation of each pseudopodium by a Heliozoon represents a rudimentary mitosis ?