THE PROTOZOA 300 forms with the flagellum very short, in some cases projecting scarcely at all from the body at its pointed end. These forms are found attached by means of their flagella, often in vast numbers to the wall of the rectum, sometimes also in the intestinal or pyloric region; they multiply by binary fission, and form a stock, as it were of the parasites, which persists for a long time in the flea—probably' under favourable conditions, for the whole life of the insect. Experi- ments have shoAvn that a flea once rendered infective to rats can Fig. 130.—Trypanosoma lewisi: developmental phases from the stomach of the rat-flea. 0, Ordinary form from the blood of the rat ; A—F, intracellular stages : A, a trypanosome curled on itself ; B, similar form in which the body has become rounded ; C, multiplication beginning, division of kinetonucleus and trophonucleus, daughter-flagellum growing out ; D, further stage—three nuclei of each kind, two short daughter-flagella, and a long pa rent-flagellum wrapped round the body ; E, six nuclei of each kind, five daughter-flagella, parent-flagellum wrapped round the body ; F, eight nuclei of each kind, the daughter-flagella running parallel with the parent-flagellum ; 0, the type of trypanosome resulting from the process of multiplication seen in the fore- going figures ; this is the form which passes down the intestine into the rectum. Magnified 2,000. N.B.—The drawings in this figure and in Fig. 131 are made from prepara- tions fixed wet with Schaudinn's fluid and stained with iron-hajmatoxylin ; in such preparations the trypanosomes always appear appreciably smaller than in films stained with the Romanowsky-stain (see Minchin, 479) ; con- sequently these figures, though drawn to the same magnification as Figs. 11, 127, etc., are on a slightly smaller scale ; compare the trypanosome drami in 0 -with those in Figs. 11, ^, and 127, A. remain so for at least three months, without bemg reinfected. From the rectal stock trypaniform individuals arise by a process of modification of the crithidial forms, in which the flagellum grows in length, the anterior portion of the body becomes more drawn out, the kinetonucleus migrates backwards behind the trophonucleus, taking with it the origin of the flagellum, and an undulating mem-