THE MODES OF LIFE OF THE PROTOZOA 25 and one interest of the parasite may, so to speak, clash with another. But in all cases alike it is perfectly clear that the death of the host before the parasite has matured its propagative phases leads simply to the extirpation of the parasite, and is a suicidal policy on its part, a glaring disharmony in Nature. This conclusion is borne out by a general survey of the facts of parasitism in the Protozoa, since the vast majority of these parasites are quite harmless to their hosts, and lethal parasites, greatly in the minority when compared with harmless forms, must be considered as exceptional and aberrant types of parasites, from a general point of view. The parasitic Protozoa of lethal properties present a problem which can be best attacked by considering and comparing two cases of closely allied parasites, the one harmless, the other lethal, to their hosts. Very instructive cases of this kind are furnished by trypanosomes {vide infra, p. 285). The common parasite of the rat, Trypanosoma lewisi, is perfectly harmless as a rule to its host, and the infection runs a very definite course. When the parasite is introduced into the blood of a healthy and susceptible rat, it enters at once upon a period of rapid multiplication, which lasts about twelve days. At the end of that time the parasite swarms in the rat's blood, without perceptibly affecting its general health. After about twelve or thirteen days the multiplication of the parasite ceases entirely ; the swarming period lasts generally about a month, and after that the parasites begin steadily to diminish and dis- appear, until after a variable length of time, usually three to five months, the blood is quite free from them, and the rat, cured from the attack, is now quite immune to the parasite, and cannot be infected by it a second time. The behaviour and effects of a pathogenic trypanosome, such as T. brucii, when introduced into a rat's blood, contrast sharply with that just described. Not only do the trypanosomes begin to multiply at once, but they never cease to do so while the host remains alive. By the fifth or sixth day there are practically more trypanosomes in the blood than blood-corpuscles, and the death of the host soon follows when this stage has been reached. Trypanosoma lewisi is a type of a well-marked group of try- panosomes, which may be conveniently denoted the lewisi-gron-p (Fig. 11). Such are T. cuniculi of the rabbit; T. duttoni of the mouse ; T. rdbinowitschi of the hamster ; T. blanchardi of the dor- mouse ; T. microti of Microtus arvalis ; and T. elyomis of the lerot {Eliomys quercinus). All these species of trypanosomes are ex- ceedingly similar in their appearance and structure ; each species, however, appears to be perfectly specific to its particular species of host. The trypanosome of the rat, for instance, will not flourish in any other host, not even in a mouse, under normal circumstances.