THE HiEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 301 brane running the length of the body is established. The trypani- form individuals thus formed are of small size and broad, stumpy form ; they represent tlie propagative phase which passes from the flea back into the rat. From the rectum they pass forwards into the stomach, and from the stomach they appear to be regurgitated into the rat's blood when the flea feeds. Experiments show that the flea becomes infective to the rat in about six days after it first took up the trypanosomes from an infected rat. The intracellular phase is at the height of its develop- ment about twenty-four hours after the flea takes up the trypano- somes ; the rectal phase begins to be established towards the end of Fig. 131.—Trypanosoma lewisi: developmental phases from the rectum of the rat- flea. A, Early rectal form ; B, crithidial form attached to wall of rectum ; G, D, division of crithidial form ; E, clump of crithidial forms detached from wall of rectum, hanging together by their flagella, one of them beginning to divide ; F, G, H, crithidial forms without free flagella ; /, rounded form without flagellum ; J, K, L, M, series of forms transitional from the crithidial to the final trypaniform type ; N, the last stage in the flea. Magnified 2,000. the first or beginning of the second day; and the stumpy, trypani- form, propagative phase is developed in the rectum towards the end of the fifth day. The account of the development of T. leivisi in the flea given in the fore- going paragraphs is based upon investigations, some of them as yet unpub- lished, carried on in conjunction with Dr. J. D. Thomson by the author (480-482). Some of the phases of the parasite have also been described by Swellengrcbel and Strickland (517). A number of investigators—namely, Prowazek (497), Breinl and Hindle, Baldrey (396), Rodenwaldt, and others- have studied the development of this trypanosome in the rat-louse {Hcemato- pmus spinulosus). Experiments have shown that this insect is also capable of transmitting the trypanosome from rat to rat, but only, to judge from the