THE PROTOZOA 26 Roudsky suggests thcat all this group of trypanosomes constitutes in reality a suigle species ; in any case, it is reasonable to regard them as forms recently evolved from a common ancestor, incipient species which have not advanced beyond the stage of phvsiolo<^ical differentiation. In like manner, T. brucii is a type of a group of trypanosomes which may be termed the 6mcu"-group (Fig. 12) ; other members of it are T. gamhiense, the parasite of human sleeping sickness ; T. evansi, causing surra in horses ; T. equiperdum, of dourine in horses ; and several other species. These forms also are exceedingly similar in appearance and structure, though easily distinguishable from members of the lewisi-grouip. They are all of them very lethal, as a rule, to their hosts ; and they differ further from the try- FiG. 11.—Trypanosomes of the leivisi-growp. A, T. lewisi (rat); B, T. duiloni (mouse) ; C, T. cuniculi (rabbit) ; D, T. microti {Microtus arvalis) ; E, T. elyomis (Eliomys quercinus) ; A and C, from preparations ; B, after Thiroux ; D, after Laveran and Pettit; E, after Franca. All figures magnified 2,000 diameters. panosomes of the lewisi-gron-p in the fact that a given member of the 6rMcn-group is not specific to a particular host, but can flourish and exert its lethal powers in a great variety of vertebrate hosts— a fact which, coupled with their very similar morphology, renders the exact determination of the species of this group very difficult, and often a matter of controversy. All these facts point to the irwm-group being also descended from a common ancestral form ; they may be regarded as incipient species in which the process of evolution has not yet the degi'ee of physiological speciaUzation reached in the lewisi-gron^. This view receives support from the fact that a new race or species of the &racn'-group has been made known this year (1911)—namely, T. rJiodesiense, a trypanosome pathogenic to human beings which appears to have come into existence as a species very recently.