THE PROTOZOA 148 (a) Karyogamy.—T\iQ body of an Arcella gives rise by multiple gemmation to a number of amoebulae, pach containing a secondary nucleus derived from the chromidia, while the primary nuclei of the parent-form degenerate (Fig. 80). The number and size of the amoebulae vary, however, in different individuals. In one Arcella the number is less and the amoebulae are larger, eight or nine macramcebce being produced. In another the amoebulae are more numerous and smaller, about forty micramcebce being formed. In either case the amoebulae swarm out of the parent-shell and are the gametes. A micramoeba copulates with a macramoeba, the two fusing completely to form a zygote with a sjnikaryon. The amoeboid zygote thus produced is the starting-point in the growth and development of an Arcella (Fig. 80, A). In this example the karyogamy is a case of microgamy, which, like other such cases, precedes a period of growth and follows a period of active reproduction. It is possible that the syngamy of the gametes is preceded by reducing divisions of the nuclei of the amoebulae, but no such reduction has been observed in Arcella. In Foraminifera (p. 235), in which the sjoigamy is perfectly isog- amous, each secondary nucleus formed from the generative chromidia divides twice to form the gamete-nuclei—divisions doubtless to be regarded as reducing divisions. In Centropyxis, according to Schaudinn (131), amoebulae, all of the same size, are produced as in Arcella, by formation of secondary nuclei; but in some broods each amoebula divides into four micramoebae (micro- gametes), while in other broods the amoebulae remain undivided as macramoebfe (macrogametes) ; copulation then takes place between two gametes of different size. (&) Chromidiogamy (Fig. 80, M—Q).—1vfo ordinary adult ylrceMoe come together and apply the mouths of their shells. The proto- plasm of one individual flows over almost entirely into the other shell, takhig with it both chromidia and primary nuclei, only so much protoplasm being left in the one shell as suffices to hold the two shells together. The primary nuclei now degenerate, and the chromidia derived from each conjugant break up into a fine dust of chromatm-particles and become intimately commmgled. When this process is complete, the protoplasm with the chromidia becomes again distributed between the two shells, and the two conjugants separate. Then in each individual secondary nuclei are formed from the chromidia, and by a process of multiple gem- mation a number of uninucleate amoebulae are formed which swarm out of the shell, and, like the zygotes resulting from karyogamy, become the starting-point of a new Arcella. Thus chromidiogamy is here a case of macrogamy which, like other similar cases, follows a period of growth and precedes a