THE PROTOZOA 52 a/x every direction. A flagellum consists of an elastic axial core enclosed in a contractile sheath or envelope (Pig. 24), from the extremity of which the core protrudes freely in some cases, forming a so-called " end-piece." The flagellum takes origin from a more or less deeply-seated granule, the blepharoplast, or basal granule, which wiU be described in dealing with the nuclear apparatus (p. 82, infra). The elastic axis, arising from the blepharoplast, can be regarded as a form-determining element of endoplasmic origin, the sheath as an ectoplasmic motor substance. A flagellum is usually cylindrical in form, with the axial filament central in cross-section, but may be band-like, with the axial filament at or near one edge; it is usually of even thicloiess throughout its whole length, but when the axial filament is exposed to form a terminal end - piece the flagellum tapers to a fine point. Like pseudopodia, flagella serve primarily for locomotion, and secondarily for food-capture, which is effected by causing food-particles to impinge on some point or aperture at the surface of the body, where they are ingested. In their relation to locomotion two types of flagella can be distinguished, termed by Lankester pulsella and tractella respectively. A pulsellum is situated at the end of the body which is posterior in movement—that is to say, it is a flagellum which by its activity propels the body forwards. Flagella of this type occ\xr in OxyrrJiis (p. 278) and m the Choanoflagellata (p. 271), but are comparatively rare in the Protozoa. In the majority of cases the flagella are tractella— that is to say, their action is such as to drag the body after them—hence they are situated at the end which is anterior in progression. Con- sidered generally, the movements performed by tracteUa are of two types. In some cases the entire flageUum is thi-own into even, sinuous undulations, and the body of the flagellate progresses with a smooth, gliding movement, which may be extremely rapid, and is then weU expressed by the French phrase " mouvement en fleche "; this type of movement is well seen in the trypanosomes and aUied genera, such as Leptomonas, etc In most free-living flageUates, however, the flagellum is held out stiff and straight for the proximal two-thirds or so of its length while the distal third performs peculiar whu-ling or pulsating Fig. 24. — Structure of the flagellum of Euglena. aa;., Axial filament; c.p., con- tractile protoplasm enveloping the axial filament; e.p., end - piece of the flagellum, consist- ing of the axial fila- ment exposed ; r, root of the flagel- lum passing into the body (compare Fig. 84). After Biitschli (3).