399 THE NEOSPORIDIA the sporozoites are always, apparently, amoebulse, and never gregarinuljB.* ^. , The Neosporidia are divisible into two sections, known re- spectively as the Cnidosporidia and the Haplosporidia. The Cnidosporidia are distinguished by the possession m the spore of peculiar structures termed polar capsules, which are lackmg m the Haplosporidia. , i j -4.1, A polar capsule (Fig. 163) is a hollow, pear-shaped body with a tough envelope, probably chitinoid in nature. It is situated at one pole of the spore, with its pointed end immediately below the surface, in continuity with a minute pore in the sporocyst. Coiled up within the capsule is a delicate filament, often of great length, probably of the same nature as the capsule, and continuous with it. Under suitable stimu- lation the polar filament is shot out through the pore in the sporocyst. In their structure the polar capsules resemble the nematocysts of the Coelentera. Each polar capsule is formed within a capulogenous cell. The Cnidosporidia comprise four orders— the Myxosporidia, Actmomyxidia, Micro- sporidia, and Sarcosporidia. The Haplo- sporidia constitute an order apart. Order I. : Myxosporidia. — This order is characterized chiefly by the following points : The principal trophic phase is a multinucleate Plasmodium of relatively large size, resembhng an amoeba in its appearance and movements. The spores are also relatively large, and exhibit typically a binary symmetry, having a sporocyst composed of two valves and usually two polar capsules, sometimes increased in number to four, rarely reduced to one. The Myxosporidia comprise a great number of genera and species, parasitic for the most part in cold-blooded vertebrates, especially fishes, in which they are found very commonly. They are not as yet known as parasites of birds or mammals, but a few species are known from invertebrate hosts, Myxosporidia are typically tissue-parasites, occurring in various tissues of the body, by preference muscular or connective, but also * A possible exception to this statement is furnished by the family Codospor- tdtidw of the Haplosporidia (p. 424). But the position of all the forms in this order 13 more or less questionable, and their attachment to the typical Neosporidia is still probationary. Fig. 163. —Polar cap- sules of the spores of Myxosporidia. a, Polar capsule with the filament coiled within it; b, with the filament partly ex- truded; c, d, with the filament completely extruded. After Balbiani.