THE H^MOSPORIDIA 383 Tho piriform parasites escape from the corpuscle when it is exhausted, and approach other corpuscles, moving with considerable rapidity. The parasite attacks the corpuscle with its blunt extremity foremost, and " rapidly indents its surface. Then violent movement of the thin end of tho parasite occurs, and the side of the corpuscle becomes greatly distorted Gradually the parasite sinks more deeply into the corpuscle, and fmally disappears within it when the movements of the corpuscle cease and it resumes its rounded shape " (NuttaU and Graham-Smith, 748, vi., p. 235 ; compare the penetra- tion of blood-corpuscles by Lanhesterella described above). Only piriform or long parasites enter corpuscles, never the round forms ; but immediately after its entry into the corpuscle the parasite becomes rounded. If rounded para- sites are set free from a corpuscle by its rupture, they die off, as do also the pear-shaped forms if they do not succeed in penetrating into a corpuscle. FiQ. 161.—Diagrams showing the mode of division of Piroplasma canis in the blood-corpuscle. A, Parasite about to divide ; B, the nucleus budding off a smaller mass ; C, the nuclear bud has grown out into a forked strand ; D, the forked ends of the strand are growing out into protoplasmic buds ; E, F, G, growth of the buds at the expense of the main body ; H, I, J, final stages of the division of the body. After NuttaU and Graham-Smith. A peculiar parasite, perhaps allied to the true piropasms, is Anaplasma marginale, which occurs in the blood of cattle, and causes a disease charac- terized by destruction of the red corpuscles and production of high fever, leading to a degeneration of the large parenchymatous organs. The parasite occurs within the red corpuscles, and is described as consisting solely of chromatinic substance, without a cytoplasmic body; hence the parasites were formerly described as " marginal points." The parasite has the form of a round or oval coccus-like body which multiplies by simple fission. It is transmitted by a tick, Ehipicephalus decoloratus. See especially Theiler (752). The transmission of piroplasms was first discovered by the American investigators Smith and Kilborne, who in a classical