249 THE SARCODINA tho animal becomes a pear-shaped flagellate swimming by means of its flagellum (Schcwiakof¥, 8G3 ; CauUery, 300). Ciliophrys thus recalls Pseudo- spom in its two phases (p. 218), and there can be little doubt that the two forms are closely allied. , -r j Dimorpha nutans, Gruber (Fig. 104), has radiating pseudopodia strengthened by axial rods, and m addition a pair of flagolla arising close together at one pole of the body. Both flagella and pseudopodia arise from a centrosome situated near tho flagellated pole ; tho single nucleus is also excentric and placed close beside the centrosome. The animal uses one of its flagella for attach- ment, while the other remains free (Schouteden). Those facts appear to indicate an origin for the Heliozoa from Flagellates such as those of the genus Midticilia (p. 270, Fig. 113), in which the body bears radiating flageUa planted evenly over the surface ; transformation of tho flagella into stiff pseudopodia would produce the Heliozoon - type of organism. On such a view two peculiarities of the Heliozoan pseudopodia receive explanation: the power of nutation and bending which they fro- FiG. 104.—Dimorpha nutans. After Schouteden. quently possess ; and their insertion on a " central grain," which would then represent the blepharoplast, pure and simple, of a flagellate. On this view the pseudopodia of the Heliozoa would appear to be structures quite different in nature from the similarly-named organs of Lobosa. On the other hand the Heliozoa also show affinities towards forms classed among the Reticulosa or " Proteomyxa," as already noted in the case of Ciliophrys and Pseudospora. Przesmycki has described a species, Endoplirys rotatorium, parasitic in Rotifers, which he considers as a connecting-link between Nuclearia and Vampyrella. The exact systematic position of such genera must be considered at present an open question. VI. Radiolabia. General Characters.—The Radiolaria are characterized, speaking generally, by the same type of form and symmetry that is so marked a feature of the Heliozoa, though in many cases the internal