THE SARCODINA 235 Schaudiim (131) ; their results have been confirmed in the case of PeneropUs by Winter, who gives a useful combined diagram of the life-history (28, p. 16, text-fig. A). The microspheric form (Fig. 95, B.) has many nuclei, which multiply by fission as the animal grows, and which also give ofE chromidia into the body- protoplasm. When reproduction begins, the nuclei become resolved entirely into chromidia, and the protoplasm streams out of the shell, which is abandoned altogether. Secondary nuclei are formed from the chromidia, and the protoplasmic mass divides up into a swarm of about 200 amoebulse (Fig. 96). Each amoebula contains a nucleus and chromidia, and secretes a single-chambered shell, which is the initial chamber of a megalospheric individual. The amoebulee separate, and each one feeds, grows, forms new chambers successively, and becomes a megalospheric adult. Thus the micro- spheric form is seen to be an agamont or schizont, which gives rise by a process of schizogony or multiple fission to agametes (amoe- bulse). The megalospheric form, when full grown, has a single large nucleus and numerous chromidia (Fig. 95, A). The nucleus is that of the amoebula which was the initial stage in the develop- ment of this form ; as it grows the nucleus passes from chamber to chamber, and at the same time gives o£E chromidia into the cyto- plasm. Finally the primary nucleus is resolved entirely into chromidia, from which a great number of secondary nuclei are formed. Round each such nucleus the protoplasm becomes con- centrated to form a small cell, which may be termed a gameto- cyte. By two divisions of the nucleus and cell - body of the gametocyte four gametes are formed, each of which acquires two flagella, and is set free as a biflagellate swarm-spore. In PeneropUs, however, the gametes have a single flageUum, and in AUogromia ovoidea the gametes are amoebulse (Swarczewsky). Gametes pro- duced by different individuals copulate, losing their flagella in the process, and the zygote secretes a minute single-chambered shell, and thus becomes the starting-point of the growth of a micro- spheric individual. From the foregoing it is seen that the megalospheric form is the gamont, which by multiple fission produces the gametocytes, and ultimately the gametes. Thus, if m. represents the microspheric form and M. the megalo- spheric, am. the amoebulaj (agametes), and fl. the flagellulce (gametes), the lite-cycle may be represented thus : m.—am.~M.—{fl. + fl.)—m.—am. . . . In some cases, however, the life-cycle does not present a regular alternation ot sexual and non-sexual generations, but a number of non-sexual generations may take place before a sexual generation intervenes ; that is to say, the megalospheric forms may produce agametes and other megalospheric forms again for several generations, before gametes are produced and the sexual processes occur. Then the life-cycle may be represented thus : m.—am.~M.—am.—M.—am. . . . M.—{fl. + fl.)-m.—am.—3I. . . .