THE PROTOZOA 428 a single nucleus and grows up into the adult amoaba-like phase. Sexual phe- nomena have not been observed, though their occurrence is indicated by the development described. Chatton considers that the parasite has reseinblanoes to Amojbant, Mycctozoa, and Sporozoa. Chi/tridiopsis, Schneider.—Leger and Duboscq (823) describe several species parasitic m the intestine of insectf. and have followed out the development of C. socius. The youngest form is a minute amoebula which penetrates into an epithelial cell, and grows, with multiplication of its nuclei, to form a Plasmodium or schizont, which then divides up to form a mass of uninucleate schizozoites," each one at first crescent-shaped, then amoeboid. The schizozoites are set free in the intestine, and penetrate other cells ; they either grow into schizonts, which repeat the process of schizogony, or into gameto- cytes. Certain schizozoites grow within the cells without multiplication of the nuclei till they attain a diameter of about 10 /j. ; then the nucleus divides rapidly, and a number of microgametes are formed. Other schizozoites become macrogametes, which are about 8 /j. in diameter and appear to be fertihzed each by a microgamete. The nucleus of the zygote divides into a great number of nuclei, tlu-ee or four of which travel to the surface of the spherical body and form a cyst- envelope ; the remaining nuclei retain their central position, and the body of the zygote divides into uni- nucleate spores. In this way resistant cysts are formed containing a large number of spores, each containing a single nucleus and a vacuole. The cysts are cast out of the body and infect new hosts. Leger and Duboscq consider that Chytridiopsis may be allied to the Microsporidia ; but having found no polar filament in the spore, they prefer to regard it as having affinities with Mycetozoa.* The genera Amcebidium and Siedleckia were held formerly to constitute a distinct order of the Sporozca, which was named the Exosporidia. Amcebidium has been shown clearly by Chatton (817) to be an organism of the nature of a fungus ; while Siedleckia is now generally referred to the schizogregarines, as suggested by Minchin (589); see Dogiel (606). Compare also Capillus intestinalis, Granata, parasite of the intestine of Millepedes. Affinities of the Neosporidia.—It is sufficiently apparent, from the structure and development of typical examples of any order of this subclass, that their affinities are wholly with the Sarcodina. In the case of many of the more primitive forms, it is an open question whether they should be classed in the Neosporidia or in one of the orders of the Sarcodina. Comparing them with the Telosporidia, it is seen that the two characteristics of that subclass which indi- cate affinities with the Elagellata are absent altogether in the Neosporidia—namely, the possession of flagellated swarm-spores or gametes, and the definite, gregarine-like body-form of the adults. No flagellated stages are known to occur at any period of the life- history in any member of the Neosporidia, and the body-form of the adult in this group is typically that of an amoeba. Many of the Myxosporidia might almost be regarded as parasitic amoebfe with a peculiar type of reproduction. Even more remarkable is the * It is not clear on what grounds Schepotie£E (269, p. 51G) considers Cliytridiopsts to be a Flagellate. Fig. 179.—Spores of Qastrocystis gilru- thi. After Chatton (819).