THE BLEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 297 In the vast majority of trypanosomes in their natural hosts, such as birds, fishes, etc., the mode of multiplication and the developmental cycle remains a mystery, although the sizes of the individual trypanosomes and their numbers are observed to vary at different times in the same host. Considerable light has been thrown upon this question by the recent investigations of Machado upon the multiplication of Trypanosoma rotatorium of frogs, a species re- markable for the polymorphism it exhibits. The results obtained by Macha,do may be summarized briefly as follows: Trypanosomes of any size may divide by binary fission when free in the blood (supposed " non-sexual" reproduction). On the other hand, trypanosomes of large size may become rounded, flattened, leaf-like forms, losing their flageUum ; such forms undergo a process of schizogony in the internal organs, chiefly in the liver or kidneys, sometimes in the spleen, sometimes even in the circulating blood. The kinetonucleus approaches the trophonucleus, and may (1) remain distinct from it, so-called " male " type ; or (2) may pass into the trophonucleus, in which the karyo- some breaks up to form a smaU secondary karyosome ; the kinetonuclear karyosome then fuses with, or becomes closely adherent to, the secondary trophonuclear karyosome—so-called "female" type. A multiplication of the nuclei then takes place : in the " male " type by independent divisions of the kinetonucleus and trophonucleus ; in the " female " type by divisions of the single mass formed by fusion of the kinetonuclear and trophonuclear karyosomes, followed by budding off of small nuclei from the originally single nucleus. Thus the body of the rounded-off trypanosome becomes fUled, within its periplast, with nuclei varying in number from five to seven- teen ; then round each nucleus (" female ") or each pair of dissimilar nuclei (" male ") the protoplasm becomes condensed to form as many merozoites, which are finally set free by rupture of the periplast. The merozoites of " male " type develop a flageUum ; in those of " female " type the single nucleus divides into two nuclei of unequal size, a larger trophonucleus and a smaller kinetonucleus, and from the latter a basal granule is budded off from which the flagellum grows out (Fig. 30, G). In either case the mero- zoites (which may divide further after being liberated from the parent body) become transformed finally into the smallest forms of trypanosomes, which then grow up into the larger forms found in the blood. Machado's observa- tions of fact, apart from his theoretical interpretations, explain the many different forms found in the frog's blood, which have recently been studied in detail by Lebedew ; compare also Mathis and Leger. In other cases there may be three well-marked types of form—long and slender, short and stumpy, and intermediate or indifferent forms, as in T. gambiense (Fig. 12; cf. Minchin, 477, Hindle, 450, Bruce, 405); or there may be every gradation in size from small to large forms, as in T. granulosum of the eel (Fig. 129); or, finally, the trypanosomes may be practically uniform m size and structure, as in T. lewisi after the multiplication-period, T. vivax, etc. A satisfactory explanation of the polymorphism has not been found m all cases; the various forms may be in some instances stages of growth related to multiplication, as in T. lewisi during the multipUcation-period ; in other cases the polymorphism—for example, of T. gamUense—ma,j be sexual cliflerentiation which is related to the subsequent development in the in- vertebrate host ; a third possibility is that in some cases the propagative forms destined for multiplication in the invertebrate host, are differentiated nnTw f JS^' ^^'^ vertebrate host, as in T. noctuoe (Minchin different cases I^^^erent explanations must probably be sought in 2. The cycle in the invertebrate host always takes place entirely or mainly m the digestive tract, though the extent to which this region is invaded varies greatly. Li the development of T. lewisi m the flea the parasites pass down as far as the rectum, and there