THE GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROTOZOA 209 (Popoff, 184) ; they may also be induced artificially in various ways by unfavourable conditions, such as overfeeding or starvation, changes of temperature, or treatment with reagents (compare Smith, 207; Popoff, 186 ; Boissevain, 151). A state of depression may be regulated naturally by conjuga- tion, or by restoration of the nucleo-cytoplasmic balance through a process of self-regulation on the part of the organism. The regulative processes consist of absorption of a large part of the superfluous chromatin, so as to restore the normal quantitative relation of the nucleus and cytoplasm. On the other hand, the depression may lead to complete degeneration of the organism without possibility of recovery, and death ensues by a process of disruption of the protoplasm into granules—so-called " granular disruption " (korniger Zerfall). Some examples are given below : Actinosfhcerium can be brought into a condition of depression either by starvation or overfeeding (Hertwig, 164). In the depressed state a great quantity of chromatin is extruded from the nuclei in the form of chromidia which degenerate into pigment, so that the animal during a depression-period has a characteristic brownish tint, more or less pronounced in proportion to the degree of depression. In extreme cases the protoplasm is bereft of its nuclei, and becomes incapable of continuing to live. The nuclei may become entirely resolved into chromidia ; or some of the nuclei grow to a relatively gigantic size and are cast out, while other nuclei break up ; or the entire medullary layer surroundmg the enlarged nuclei may be thrown off. The pseudopodia may disappear altogether or become deformed in various ways, the difference between cortical and medullary substance may be annulled or abnormally increased, and the metabolism may be modified, all these changes being in relation to nuclear alterations. In Opalina, according to Dobell (155), physiological degeneration can be mduced by starvation of its host, the frog. The degenerating Opalince lose their ciHa and become irregular in form ; pecuhar refringent eosinophile globules appear in the cytoplasm ; the nuclei undergo increase in size and modification in structure, give off chromatin, and undergo irregular fusions • and the body divides irregularly, sometimes producing buds which contain no nucleus. Ultimately the Opalince disintegrate. Prandtl (187) has described the degeneration of Amceba proteus The T^'"^'"''''^^?^ ^'^^ ^"^^ becomes hyperchromatinic. Chromidia are extruded into the cytoplasm, and may there degenerate, with formation of numerous small crystals. The chromatin in the nucleus also degenerates to form a mass of brown pigment, which is extruded en bloc into the cyto- plasm, or forms a rmg of fine granules round the nucleus. The pigment mav also spread through the whole cytoplasm, giving it a brownish tinge. Finallv JnhWf f^f^'^f ? '''f '^^'''^r^'^ altogether. Degenerating amoeba are subject to the attacks of parasites. A noteworthy feature is the tendency of the degeneratmg amcebae to associate in clumps, and plastogamic fusion of two amoebae was observed by Prandtl. The tendency to fusion may be compared with the agglomeration of trypanosomes, etc. (p. 128) wSch is common also in degenerating forms or under unfavourable conditions. * It is not improbable that many of the plastogamic unions of Sarcodina often "conjugations" observed by Putter (201, p. 582) in OvalincB kprit without oxgycn must have been also phenomena of the nature oLgSmeration fZn n?.^-^'''^'^?"'/,*^^"' Pl^°^^ between special gamete? aKt ?n the form of conjugation of adult forms as in other Ciliata (p. 453). 14