THE INFUSORIA 453 is to produce small individuals containing, as a rule, from three to six secondary nuclei. Such individuals become encysted (infection-cysts), and pass out of the frog in the fteces. The animal at first fills the cyst completely and shows no cilia, but after a time the body shrinks within the cyst, and the animal is then seen to have a ciliary covering. The faeces of the frogs are readily devoured by tadpoles, which thus become infected with cysts. In the gut of the tadpole the Opalina emerges from its cyst. It at once divides up into uninucleate individuals, the gametes, elongated club-shaped forms with a sparse coat of cilia over the flattened body. Under unfavourable circumstances the gametes undergo agglomera- tion in rosettes, adhering by their pointed ends (Neresheimer). Under normal circumstances they copulate in pairs as isogametes, according to Neresheimer, in 0. ranarum ; but Met calf describes smaller uninucleate micro- gametes and larger macrogametes with one or two nuclei, in other species ; the male pronucleus then fuses with one of the two nuclei of the macrogamete. The zygote of 0. ranarum, with the two pronuclei still separate, rounds itself off and becomes encysted (copulation-eyst); within the cyst the two pronuclei, which have passed into a spindle-stage, undergo fusion. The zygote emerges from the cyst with a synkaryon, and it becomes an adult Opalina. Neresheimer considers that the hfe-cycle of Opalina proves that its affinities are with Plagellata rather than with Infusoria. In deciding this question, it must be considered, in the first place, whether in such a form the life-cycle, or the structural features of the body, are most likely to indicate affinity— that is to say, least likely to exhibit secondary peculiarities due to adaptation. Opalina is a parasitic form, and its life-cycle shows very obviously a direct daptation, of a type very common in parasitic Protozoa, to its mode of life ; multiplicative reproduction increasing its numbers within the host, and prop- agatiye reproduction, combined with sexual phenomena, leading to the infection of new hosts. On the other hand, its minute structure is that typical of Ciliata, a character hardly likely to be due to the influence of parasitism, as Popofl" (125) has well pointed out. The chief difference between Opalina and other Ciliata, which requires special consideration, is the fact that the animal contains but one kind of nucleus. This, however, is a character known in other genera of Ciliata a\so~e.g., Trachelocerca, Ichthyophthirius. There can be but little doubt that the heterokaryote " condition of the Infusoria, with distinct generative and vegetative nuclei, must have been derived phylogeneticaUy from a condi- tion m which, as m other Protozoa, the two kmds of chromatin were contained m one and the same nucleus; and to find this condition stiU retained in some infusoria would not be remarkable. In such forms it is to be expected that prior to gamete-formation the vegetative chromatm, equivalent to the macronucleus, would be expeUed, and the pronuclei would be formed from generative chromatin. There is nothing, therefore, to be said against the view of Popoff, that Opahna show^ the most primitive type of gamete-formation laiown it present amongst the Ci lata. Its nuclei contain generative and vegetative chromatin IZtT ' '^"V VP''^.^ ^^^g^^^y ""'^l^i f«^-'^ed which are pure y generative, out o chromidia expelled from the primary nuclei. The forma oi generative nuclei micrcnuclei prior to the svnuamie Droeoa^ • l.iif l,„m sTtffinrtra-r^rSo-^^^^^^^^^^^^