THE PROTOZOA 292 their transmission have not yet been worked out in a satisfactory or conclusive manner. It must be considered for the present an open question whether true try- panosomes occur as parasites of an invertebrate host exclusively ; the answer to the question will depend on the significance given to the expression " true trypanosome." It is now practically certain that many Icptoraonads have a trypaniform phase in their development (see p. 314, infra), so-called " Icpto- trypanosomes." In Drosophila conjusa, a non-biting, muscid fly, Chatton and Alilaire (compare also Chatton and ledger) found in the Malpighian tubules a trypaniform type of flagellate which they consider as a " eutrypanosome," as a species of Trypanosoma distinct from the Lepiomonas occurring in the gut of the same fly (Fig. 137). Wenyon (84) also found similar forms in the Malpighian tubules of house-flies in Bagdad, and considered that they might belong to the cycle of the Lepiomonas {Herpetomonas) in the same host. In both cases the phase in the Malpighian tubules is a little stumpy trypanosome- like form, very similar in its characters to T. nanum. The fact that these " eutrypanosomes " are so far known only to occur in flies which are infected also by a species of Lepiomonas indicates that, like the " leptotrypanosomes," they are merely a phase in the cycle of the Lepiomonas. From the foregoing it is seen that the complete life-cycle of a trypanosome is an alternation of generations corresponding to an alternation of hosts. One part of the cycle is passed in the blood of a vertebrate, in which the predominant form is the trypanosome- type of flagellate ; the second part is passed in the digestive tract of an invertebrate, and here the predominant form is the crithidial or trypanomonad type. We may consider the life-history, therefore, under these two principal phases : 1. As a type of the life-cycle in the vertebrate host, that of the common rat-trypanosome may be taken. After infection, natural or artificial, of the rat, the trypanosomes make their appearance in the blood about the fifth, sixth, or seventh day. What the para- sites have been doing during this time, the so-called " incubation- period " in the rat, cannot as yet be stated definitely ; it may be that the relatively few trypanosomes inoculated by the flea or syringe have merely been multiplying steadily, in the manner presently to be described, until they become sufficiently numerous in the blood to be detected by microscopic examination ; there may, on the other hand, be phases of the parasite as yet unknown durmg this period, and, according to recent statements (Carini, 422), a process of schizogony takes place in the lung similar to that dis- covered by Chagas in Schizotrypanum cruzi (see below). When the trypanosomes flrst appear in the blood, their most striking pecuHarity is the extraordinary diversity in type which they exihibit. Besides " ordinary " individuals of the normal dimensions of the " adult " form, there are others smafler or larger, the extremes of size being relatively huge in one direction, very minute in the other. These differences of size are due to the fact that the try- panosomes are multiplying actively, the large forms bemg those