THE NEOSPORIDIA 425 uninucleate sporonts ("pansporoblasts") towards the centre or at one pole while the peripheral zone or the opposite pole remains in the plasluodial condition. The sporonts grow in size, and at the same time multiply by repeated hssion to form a cluster of about sixteen spores, a " spore-morula" (Fig. 177, B), enclosed by a membrane Betvveen the spore-moruliB an indefinite framework is formed by the residual protoplasm in which the sporonts have developed (Beattie). Hence the full-grown parasite exhibits three zones, which may be concentric or polar in arrangement: a plasmodial region, peripheral or polar; an intermediate zone of spore-formation; and a central or polar region containing ripe spore-morulas. The process of spore-formation continues until the whole cyst is full of sporc-morulae. The ripe cysts burst and scatter their contents in the tissues. It is possible that spores set free in this way- may germinate in the tissues and give rise to fresh cysts; but it is more probable that the spores, if they escape the phagocytes, are dis- charged from the surface of the epithelium. From the analogy of other Neosporidia, it is reasonable to suppose that the youngest uni- nucleate forms of the parasite are the multiplicative phase in the tissues, and that the spore-morulte represent the propagative phase. Nothing is known, however, of the mode of transmission of the para- site or of the manner in which the infection is acquired. A parasite is described by Laveran and Pettit from Salmo irideus, which in the opinion of the authors presents affinities with Rhinosporidium and Neuro- sporidium. It causes a disease the fish, termed in German IZ 5 cz in Taumelkrankheit." Fig. 177.—Rhinosporidium kinealyi. A, Segment of a section through a cyst: hyaline envelope ; p.z., peripheral zone of pansporoblasts; i.z., inter- mediate zone of pansporoblasts contain- ing a few spores; c.z., central zone of ripe spore-morulfB; B, ripe spore-morula; m., membrane ; sp., spores. After Minchin and Fantham. In addition to the more or less typical genera of Haplosporidia mentioned in the foregoing para- graphs, a number of other forms have been described, of which the affinities and systematic position re- main for the present imcertain. Such are the " Serumsporidia " of Pfeiffer, and other forms, for a review of which the reader must be referred to the comprehen- sive memoir of CauUery and Mesnil (802) or to the original descriptions. The remarkable form, Scheioiakovella schmeili, however, presents peculiarities which deserve special mention. It is a parasite of the body-cavity of Cyclops spp., and was the subject of detailed study by Schewiakoff. In the active con- dition it occurs as an amoeba with a single nucleus and a contractile vacuole, or as a Plasmodium formed by fusion of such amoebse. Encystment of either the amoebaj or the plasmodia occurs, and within the cyst a number of simple, uninucleate spores are formed, which, although possessing a distinct envelope', multiply further by fission, with mitosis of the nucleus. Germination of the spores sots free small amoebula?. In many points this form is unique amongst the Sporozoa, and should perhaps be classed rather with the parasitic amoeba;. Incertce Sedis.—Jn conclusion a number of forms must be mentioned which have been referred to the Neosporidia, but of which the position and afBinities are quite doubtful.