THE PROTOZOA 150 sorbed and disappear, and the nuclei divide twice by karyokinesis (Fig. 76, D), so that their number is quadrupled. The myxamooba then undergoes multiple fission into as many cells as there are nuclei m the plasmodium (Fig. 76, F), and each of these cells is a gamete. The gametes now conjugate in pairs, and the zygotes become encysted to form the spores. Within the spores the nuclei of the gametes are stated to undergo a further process of reduction before they fuse to form the synkaryon (Fig. 76, G). The syngamy in Plasmodiophora is stated to be a case of autogamy, but this allegation assumes that the nuclei of the myxamoebge are sister- nuclei derived all from the division of one original nucleus ; they may equally well be nuclei of different origuis brought together by plastogamic fusions. The two examples selected, Arcella and Plasmodiophora, show that the chromidia may represent generative chromatm in one case, vegetative in another. Goldschmidt (57) has proposed to distinguish these two conditions by a special terminology, retainmg the name " chromidia " (trophochromidia, Mesnil, 74) for those which are purely vegetative, and coining a new term, sporetia (idio- chromidia, Mesnil) for those of generative nature. It is more convenient, however, to retaua the term " chromidia" in its original significance, to denote simply extranuclear particles of chromatin, and to qualify the term by the adjectives " vegetative" and " generative " when required (see also Goldschmidt, 41, p. 130). The formation of vegetative chromidia, which are finally absorbed, is a common phenomenon in many Protozoa ; it may take place as a jDurely regulative process, as in Actinosphcerium during de- pression-periods (p. 208), when hypertrophy of the nuclear apparatus is corrected by the extrusion from the nuclei of chromidia, which ultimately degenerate and become converted into masses of pig- ment, and as such are eliminated from the protoplasm. Tho account given by Bott (103) of gamete-formation in the common Pelomyxa {AmcBbma nuda, p. 227) describes a condition in which chromidia, extruded from the nuclei, are partly vegetative, partly generative ; secondary nuclei are formed from them, which later cast out a portion of their chromatin, then give rise to the gamete-nuclei. After tho secondary nuclei have been purified in tliis way of their vegetative chromatin, the generative chromatin remaining in eacli of them forms a karyokinetic spindle with eight cliromo- somes, and a reducing division follows by which each daughter-nucleus obtains four chromosomes. The " pronuclei of the first order," resulting from the first reducing division, divide again, formmg a spindle with four cliromosomes which spht, so that the " pronuclei of the second order " have also four chro- mosomes. From the nuclei that have undergone reduction in this manner the nuclei of the gametes arise in a somewhat remarkable fashion: the pro- nuclei of the second order separate into two compact masses of chromatin ; a vacuole is formed near them ; and the chromatin of the two masses wanders, in the form of finely-divided granules, into the vacuole to form the definitive pronucleus of the gamete, which forms a membrane wlien the process is complete. When formed the gametes wander out as Heliozoon-like indi-