386 THE PROTOZOA m clusters, and according to Koch they fuse in pairs (Fig. 162, D—Q)- cytological details of the syngamy, if such it be, are lacking (but compare Theilena, infra). 2. The stellate stage is succeeded by a spherical stage, very possibly repre- senting the zygote. This body grows in size, but its development, as de- scribed by Koch, is difficult to understand, and requires further elucidation. The final result is a globular mass with a single nucleus, found in great numbers on the thu:d day, according to Koch (Fig. 162, J). Whether these bodies have arisen by division of the zygote, or represent simj)ly the zygotes, is not clear, but the latter alternative seems the more probable. 3. The globular stage is succeeded by a club-like or retort-shaped stage. According to Christophers, whose account of the life-cycle appears to begin at this stage, a split appears in the globular body, whereby a portion contain- ing the nucleus is divided off incompletely from a portion which has no nucleus. The non-nucleated portion then swings round and forms the tail- piece of the complete club-shaped body, which has a single nucleus at the swollen extremity. The club-shaped bodies appear to represent the ookinetes (Fig. 162, K—M). They are motile and gregarme-like, and in some cases have an organ resembling an epimerite, regarded by Christoijhers as a boring organ, at the anterior extremity. Their size is about four times that of the piroplaams in the blood. 4. The club-shaped bodies pass from the gut of the tick into the ovary and oviduct, and penetrate into the ova. There they become again globular in form, and are found in the yolk of the egg, and later in the cells of the embryo developed from the egg. When, however, the parasites have been taken up by a nymph, as may happen in P. canis, the globular bodies are foimd in the tissue-ceUs of the body. This globular stage, termed " zygote " by Christophers, very probably corresponds to the oocyst of the hsemamcebse. 5. The globular body of the previous stage divides up by multiple fission into a number of " sporoblasts," which do not remain aggregated together, but scatter themselves through the tissues of the tick, larva, nymph, or adult, as the case may be. 6. The sporoblasts divide in their turn into a great number of sporozoites, small bodies with a single nucleus similar in appearance to the piroplasms in the blood. The sporozoites collect in vast numbers in the salivary glands of the tick, and pass into the vertebrate when next the tick feeds. According to Gonder, ticks infected with Theileria parva purge their salivary glands com- pletely of the parasites when they feed, and are only infective for a single meal. The development of Theilena parva in the tick has been described by Gonder (740). Within an hour after passing into the stomach of the tick the parasites become free from the corpuscles. The immature gametocytes die oif, but the adult forms proceed to gamete-formation. The free parasites are at first rounded off, but soon send out processes and become amoeboid. The male gametocytes send out a single process, and creep about actively like a limax-amodba,; their nucleus goes through an unequal division, after which the gametocyte becomes a gamete. The female gametes, which are inactive, go through a similar reduction-process. Pairing of two gametes and fusion of the cytoplasmic bodies takes place, but before the nuclei fuse each nucleus goes through a second reduction-division. After copulation of ..the nuclei the zygote becomes an active ookinete, first retort-shaped and then gregariniform, which penetrates into the salivary glands, and there goes through a multiplicative process, very similar to that of Haiteridium in the lung of the pigeon {cf. Fig. 157), producing a swarm of sporozoites which are inocu ated into the vertebrate host by the tick. Thus in Theilena also there is no flagellated stage at any part of the life-cycle—a fact which does not, however, prevent Gonder from seeing " blepharoplasts," and even crith- idial forms on every possible occasion ; he seems to consider nuclear reduction and blepharoplast-formation as the same thing. It is a pity that the effect of such excellent work should be marred by so much theoretical bias. Aber wie die Alien sungen . . . !