257 17 CHAPTER XII SYSTEMATIC REVIEW OF THE PROTOZOA: THE MASTIGOPHORA The distinctive feature of the class Mastigophora is the possession of one or more flagella as organs of locomotion and food-capture, not merely during early stages of development, but in the active phases of the adult organism also. In other classes, as has been pointed out in a previous chapter, flagella may be present in the young stages, but are absent in the adult phases. In the Masti- gophora a flageUum is a permanent feature of the organization, though even in this class it may be temporarily lost, either in active phases, when the animal may become amoeba-like, or in resting phases, especially in parasitic forms of intracellular habitat. The Mastigophora are divided into three subclasses, of which the first, the Flagellata, contains the more typical forms, and con- stitutes the nucleus, so to speak, of the class ; while the two remain- ing subclasses, the Dinoflagellata and CystoflageUata, may be regarded as specialized offshoots of the primitive flagellate stem. It is convenient, therefore, to deal with the Flagellata in a general manner first, and then to describe the special features of the other two subclasses. Subclass I.: Flagellata (Euflagellata). General Characters.—T\\Q members of this group are for the most part of minute size, and seldom attain to considerable dimensions ; forms of relatively large size, such as the species of Euglena and aUied genera, are small as compared with the larger species of the Sarcodina and other classes. As a rule the FlageData are free- swimmmg organisms ; a certain number, however, are sedentary in habit, attaching themselves to a firm basis, and using their flagella for food-capture alone. There is a great tendency to colony- formation m this group. Li the process of multiplication by fission ot the ordinary type, separation between the daughter-individuals may be incomplete, so that they remain connected together, either by means of a common envelope, house, or gelatinous matrix, or by organic, protoplasmic union, or in both ways. Repeated fission