280 CHAPTER XIII THE H^MOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS General Characters and Principal Types.—Under the term " Hsemo- flagellates " are grouped together a number of forms of which the characteristic, though by no means invariable, habit is alternating parasitism in the blood of a vertebrate and in the digestive tract of a blood-suckmg invertebrate host. The group must be regarded, however, as one founded on practical convenience rather than on natural affinity—as a method of classification comparable to that of the gardener rather than of the botanist. The existence of a parasitic habit common to a number of different forms is in itself no proof of genetic affinity or community of descent, and it is highly probable that more than one line of ancestry has contributed, through divergent adaptation, to the composition of the group Haemoflagellates. The name itself has, moreover, lost much of its significance, since closely allied to the forms parasitic in blood, and inseparable from them in a natural scheme of classification, are other forms parasitic only in invertebrates, or even free-living. The chief morphological characteristic of the Hsemoflagellates is the possession of two nuclei, a trophonucleus and a kinetonucleus, and the relation of the locomotor to the nuclear apparatus is of the third type distinguished in the preceding chapter (p. 263); on this account they are ranked by Hartmann and JoUos (390) as a distinct order of the Flagellata termed the Binucleata. The Hsemo flagellates as a group comprise a number of forms which represent in some cases distinct generic types, in others merely developmental phases alternating with other forms in the life-cycles of particular species. The following six generic names represent the more important of these types : 1. Trypanosoma (Fig. 126, etc.), with a single flageflum which arises near the kinetonucleus, at the extremity of the body which is posterior in progression, and runs forward as the marginal flagellum of an undulating membrane. At the anterior end of the body the flagellum is usually continued as a free flagellum, but in some cases it ends with the undulating membrane. A vast number of species parasitic in the blood of vertebrates and in the digestive tract of