THE PROTOZOA 390 derived without difficulty from that of the ha^raamocbaa; and, in spite of the hiatus ni what is known of the life-cycle, there is no difficulty in comparing and iiomologjzing the phases of Ha^moproteus columbce with those of a malarial parasite, and consequently with thoto of a coccidian. The development of Leucocytozoon requires investigation, but the little that is known—namely the schizogony, sexual phases, and ookinete-formation—is entirely of the hcemamoebatype. More striking than in any other type of the Ha;inosporidia are th- coccidian features of the haemogregarincs. In such a form as H. siepanowi the life-cycle IS seen to exhibit not merely a general similarity to that of the Coccidia but even a special resemblance to particular forms. The mode of gamete-forma- tion IS that which characterizes the family Adeleidce among Coccidia, and the many developmental similarities between H. stepanoivi and the only known coccidian parasite of a leech, Orclmlbius herpobdellce, have led Reichenow to derive them from a common form. In many hajmogregarines, apparently, the parasite obtains an entry into the vertebrate host, not by the inoculative method, but by the contaminative, through the vertebrate devouring the invertebrate host. In such cases (H. muris, H. gerUlli) the characteristic cocci dian sporocysts reappear in the sporogony. It is not necessary, however, to dilate further on the coccidian affinities of the hamogregarines, since they are recognized by Hartmann and his school, and the latest revisions of the order Binucleata do not comprise the hsmogregarines, which are left in the Telosporidia. As regards the piroplasms, it is perhaps unsafe to generalize in the present fragmentary state of our knowledge of the life-cycle, and in particular of the sexual phases ; but so far as it is known, the phases of the development appear to correspond closely with those of the typical Ha>mosporidia. But at least it can be said that the development of piroplasms does not afford the slightest support to the view that they are in any way allied to Hasmoflagellates; indeed, it can be affirmed, on the contrary, that, of all the forms mcluded in the Hsemosporidia, the piroplasms exhibit the least indications of flagellate affinity. From a general consideration of the life-cycles of the typical Hsemosporidia, such as the h8emamoeba3 and hsemogregarines, and omitting doubtful forms, it is very clear that what may be called the nucleus of the group bears a close and unmistakable resemblance to the Coccidia. One section, comprising the haemamoebse, lialteridia, and leucocytozoa of birds, are to be derived from an ancestor which formed gametes after the manner of Coccidium, and in these types the phenomena of " exflagellation " can be observed readily. In the other section, comprising at least the haemogregarincs, gamete-formation is of the type of that seen in Adeleidce, and does not take place until the gameto- cytes have associated; consequently exflagellation in vitro does not occur, but coupling of the sporonts, as in gregarines, has often been described, but wrongly interpreted as copulation (c/. Sambon and Seligmann). In the face of such profound homologies v/ith Coccidia, what are the argu- ments from the developmental cycle in favour of a contrary opinion ? The case for the alleged Hsemoflagellate affinities of the Hsemosporidia rests on the famous memoir of Schaudinn (132) on the blood-parasites of the Little Owl, a work which must now be considered briefly. The Little Owl [Athene noctua) harbours the full number of kno\ra avian blood-parasites—namely: (1) a proteosoma ; (2) a halteridium ; (3) a small form of trypanosome ; (4) a large form of trypanosome ; (5) a leucocytozoon: (6) a spirochsete. According to Schaudinn, these six forms belong to the life-cycle of three species of parasites. First, the proteosoma (1) is a distinct form, not related to any of the others. Secondly, the halteridium (2) and the small trypanosome (3) are alleged to be two phases of the same parasite. Thirdly, the large trypanosome (4), the leucocytozoon (5), and the spirochsete (6), are supposed to represent different phases of one and the same life-cycle. The halteridium {Hcemoproteus noctuce) was stated by Schaudiim to be the