SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA 145 the first division of the micronucleus is an equating division, the second reducing; so in Opercularia (Enriques, 112), Ghilodon (Enriques, 113), Carchesium (Popoff, 125), Didinium (Prandtl, 126)', and Ano'plo'phrya (Fig. 74); in the last named the second division of the micronucleus reduces the chromosomes from six to three, and union of the pronuclei brings the number up to six again. In Carchesium the number of chromosomes is reduced from sixteen to eight. A similar reduction-process has been described by Mulsow (123) in gregarines (p. 335). Hence in these cases the pronuclei ® © * * ® ® L M N 0^ K Fia. 74.—Behaviour of the micronucleus during successive stages of the con- jugation of Anoplophrya [Collinia) hranchiarum. A. Micronucleus of one conjugant preparing for division ; B, later stage, with six chromosomes dis- tinct ; G, nuclear spindle, with an equatorial plate of six chromosomes • D, diaster-stage, with six daughter-chromosomes at each pole of the spindle • A, later stage, with the chromosomes at each pole fused into one mass • i\ ' ^•,f<^«iif.action of the daughter-nuclei; the remains of the spindle between them disappears gradually; /, the two micronuclei prepariX for infirm ''-^ chromosomes in each (one nucleus Fs seel in profile, the other from one pole ; J, diaster-stages, showing three chromo somes at each pole o the spindle (reducing division); K. !ater stage The chromosomes fused into masses of chromatin ; L. four granddaughter Sicro nudei; M, one of them grows in size, the other three begin to delenSe N. division of the persistent micronucleus to form the two pronuclef 0 two aTor^iordif^^^^^^^^^ (?0):^mtnificaS have exactly half the amount of chromatin contained in the ordinary nuclei, just as in the Metazoa. Doflein (111) and Hartmann (116) consider that a process of reduction is absolutely essential to the conception and definition ot syngamy, and regard reduction as a criterion whereby true syngamic union of gametes and pronuclei can be distinguished trom plastogamic and nuclear fusions which have nothing to do ^vith the sexual process. "No fertilization without reduction" (Hartmann). But it must be acknowledged that in a great many cases of gamete-formation in Protozoa a reduction of the^chromS 10