167 POLYMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES which it multiplies to form a number of germs, which may or may not be enclosed in sporocysts, in different species. Cysts and spores pass out of the host, and do not develop further unless they are devoured by a second host of a species in which they are able to estabhsh themselves ; if this event takes place, the spores germinate in the new host and produce a fresh cycle of infection, each germ when set free growing up into a schizont. In this case it is seen that the schizonts represent the multiplicative, the sporonts the propagative, phase, and that in the latter resistant cysts are pro- duced as a protection against the vicissitudes of the outer world, to which the parasite must expose itself during this phase of its life-history. An example of a parasite which infects two distinct species of hosts in the course of its life-history is furnished by the malarial parasites (p. 360, Fig. 156). In this case there are first of all schizonts which, like those of Coccidium, reproduce themselves by multiple fission, this part of the life-cycle being passed in the blood of a vertebrate host. Later, sporonts are generated which under normal circumstances are incapable of multiplication in the verte- brate host, or, indeed, of any further development, unless taken up by another host, in this case a mosquito, which takes them from the vertebrate host by sucking its blood. In the stomach of the new host the sporonts behave in a similar manner to those of Coccidium.—^that is to say, they give rise as gametocytes to gametes, which by syngamy produce zygotes. The zygotes grow and repro- duce themselves by multiple fission, forming an enormous number of minute germs or sporozoites, which do not develop further unless they pass from the mosquito back into the blood of a suitable vertebrate host, in which they start a fresh developmental cycle. The fife-cycle of the malarial parasites shows that a given phase of a parasite is only to be regarded as multipHcative or propagative in relation to a particular host. In the vertebrate blood the schizont is the multipficative, the sporont the propagative, phase. As soon, however, as the sporont passes into the mosquito, it becomes there the multipficative phase which gives rise ultimately to the sporozoites, representing the propagative phase in the mosquito. The sporozoites in their turn, when they reach the blood of the vertebrate, develop there into schizonts. Thus one and the same stage in the life-cycle represents one phase in one host and another m another, according to circumstances. It should be noted further that m the fife-cycle of the malarial parasites resistant cysts are unnecessary, since the parasite never comes out into the open, but passes the whole of its existence in one or the other of its two hosts • consequently such cysts are not formed at any stage of the Hfe- cycle in these forms.