THE PROTOZOA 28 tion of now species of parasites, the first step would be the acquisi- tion by the parasite of the power of living in hosts other than that to which it is specific. How such a variation might arise in Nature is impossible to conjecture in the present state of knowledge ; but some experiments that have been carried out upon T. lewisi show that conditioiis can modif}^ thn apparent fixity of its characters. Roudsky (22, 23) found that after prolonged culture on artificial media, and subsequent rapid passages tlirough rats, it was possible to infect mice with T. leivisi. Wendelstadt and Fellmer (27) have shown that T. leivisi, if inoculated into cold-blooded vertebrates, can persist there for a time, and then becomes virulent to rats.* In both cases it is evident that the normal specific properties of the parasite have been induced to vary by changes in the conditions of life, with the result that they become similar to those characteristic of the pathogenic trypanosomes. If it be true that a parasite attacking a new host is at first patho- genic to it, but tends in the course of evolution to establish more harmonic relations with the host, the question arises as to how such relations are brought about. There are two organisms con- cerned, and the problem affects them both. In the case of the host the adaptation to the effects of the parasite may be both individual and racial, in the latter case to be perhaps largely ex- plained by the elimination of indi^'iduals less fitted by their con- stitution to resist the parasite. In the case of the parasite, also, the problem may be considered from both points of view; deadly strains of the parasite contribute to their own destruction. Interesting observations bearing on the individual adaptability of strains of Schizotrypanum cruzi have been made by Chagas (425). This para- site, when inoculated into guinea-pigs, was found to kill them in about six days ; this is its initial virulence to this host. After repeated passages through guinea-pigs, it Avas found that the viru- lence diminished, until guinea-pigs inoculated with strains of attenu- ated virulence lived as much as six weeks before they succumbed to the effects of the parasite. If, when this result had been attained, the parasite was given a single passage tlirough a marmoset, it was then found to have regained its primary virulence to guinea-pigs. The study of the exact mechanism of the physiological relations between parasites and their hosts is the task of the investigations upon immunity and kindred problems which now engross so large a share of the attention of scientific workers, but which cannot be considered here in detail. BibliograpJiy.—For references, see p. 476. * See also Sleeping Sickness Bulletin, No. 22, p. 412, and No. 24, p. 81.