SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA 147 nuclear substance; that, consequently, by a regulative process which may primitively have followed the syngamic, union, the chromatin of the zygote was reduced to the normal quantity by ehmination of half of its mass ; and that from thifj hypothetical primitive process of regulation of the nucleo-cytoplasmic balance a process of nuclear reduction preceding the syngamic act has been gradually evolved until it reaches its perfection in the form seen in the Metazoa. On this view, it is to be expected that in Protista a great diversity in the methods of nuclear reduction would occur, from those of the roughest type to others highly elaborated and perfected; and this expectation certainly receives justification from the data of observation. Hertwig (119), on the other hand, compares the reducing divisions in the maturation of the gametes to the so-called " hunger-divisions " in Infusoria, which exhibit a great disproportion in the relative mass of nucleus and cytoplasm as the result of starvation in artificial cultures ; in such forms the body is smaller than in forms from a normal cultiire, but the nucleus is not merely relatively, but absolutely, larger than that of a normal form. The disturbance in the nucleo-cytoplasmic ratio (see p. 70, supra) can, however, be regulated by reducing divisions of the nucleus. On the ground of this comparison, Hertwig considers that the maturative processes of the gametes are to be regarded as the necessary conpequ-i:oes of antecedent events* in the life-history —as processes which i.i their turn bring about syngamy, and not such as have the object of preparing the nuclei for fertilization. In order to give a more concrete idea of the processes of syngamy and reduction in Protozoa, a few typical examples will now be described, selected m order to illustrate the salient features of these processes. The most convenient method of classification ot the examples chosen is to distinguish those cases in which chro- midia are present in addition to nuclei from those in which nuclei alone are present. 1. Syngamy and Reduction with Nuclei and Chromidia—In a great many Sarcodina, especially those belonging to the orders Amoaba^a (p 218) and Foraminifera (p. 231), chromidia may be present m the gamete-forming individuals as a permanent con- renre^^^^^^ . n body-structure. In such cases the chromidia rise bv f' T P^'*' g^^er^tive chromatin, and give nse, by forma ion of secondary nuclei, to the nuclei of the gametes tm oftn ' '^"P*^^- '"^^ distinct lorms of syngamy have been described. the%^l^in1ueT; wK'eCrr.Th^ point out that starvation is by no means