THE PROTOZOA 218 III. Order XenophyopJiora.—With skeleton of foreign bodies and a peculiar internal structure. IV. Order Mycetozoa.—Semi-terrestrial forms witli repro- duction by resistant spores and formation of Plas- modia. B. Subclass Actinopoda (Calkins).—Typically floating forms with radiating, unbranched pseudopodia. V. Order Heliozoa.—Principally fresh-water, without a " central capsule." VI. Order Radiolaria.—Exclusively marine, with a central capsule. I. Amgeb^a. 1. Reticulosa.—In this suborder are comprised a number of forms of doubtful affinities, sometimes ranked as a distinct order, Proteomyxa. The only positive character which they have in common is the possession of filose or reticulose pseudopodia, with which is combined the absence of a shell and skeleton. Hence it is not surprising that the position of many forms referred to this suborder is extremely dubious, and some of them are referred to distinct orders by many authorities. In general two tjrpes of organisms are referred to this suborder: (a) Large marine plasmodial forms ; an example is Pontomyxa flava, described by Topsent from the Mediterranean and British Channel. Pontomyxa is a multinucleate plasmodium of yellow colour. It sends out branching root-like pseudopodia, which may spread out and form a network extending over two or three inches in length. Nothing is known of its development or life-cycle. (6) Small forms with a s'ngle nucleus, marine or fresh-water, which reproduce by process of multiple fission forming swarm- spores. These forms have been subdivided into two famiUes, according to the type of swarm-spore found—Zoosporidce, pro- ducing flagellulse; and Azoosporidce, producing amoebulse. An example of the Zoosporidce is furnished by the genus Pseudospora, which preys upon algse, diatoms, Volvocineae, etc. The adult phase is amoeboid, flagellate, or even Heliozoon-like. It feeds on the cell- substance and chlorophyll of the prey, and multipUes by binary fission. It can also break up by multiple fission into flagellate swarm-spores, with or without previous encystment. Robertson has observed syngamy between flagellulse thus formed, which are therefore gametes; in other cases the flagellulse are perhaps agametes. As already pointed out above, the position of this form amongst the Sarcodina is doubtful; by many authorities it is classified in the Mastigophora. An example of the Azoosporidce is furnished by Vampyrella, a