THE PROTOZOA 370 IS occupied by an oval, compact mass of cytoplasm containing a nucleus. By some this mass is regarded as the whole parasite, by others as its endoplasmic region alone. In the female forms the cytoplasm is dense and stams deeply, and the nucleus is relatively small, with a distinct karyosome sometimes placed eccentrically. In the male forms the cytoplasm is paler, and the much larger nucleus stains feebly, with a diffuse granular structure and mth- out a conspicuous karyosome. Stretched along one side of the body of the parasite is the nucleus of the host-ceU, compressed, usually more or less drawn out, and stainmg deeply. The surface of the body is covered by a thin membrane, which is prolonged usually into two horn-like processes at the two poles of the body. It is doubtful whether these two processes consist solely of the substance of the host-cell, or whether they contain ectoplasmic extensions of the parasite also. In any case it is certain that the parasite modifies the host-ceU in a singular manner. It is also disputed whether the host-cell itseH is an erythroblast or a mono- nuclear leucocyte. Most recent investigators, however, inchne to the latter view ; but Keysselitz and Mayer {A.P.K., xvi., p. 237) state that the host-cell is an erythroblast. No melanin-pigment is formed. The young forms of the parasite are compact, rounded, or hsemogregarine-like, contained in white cells with a large nucleus, and without the horn-like processes characteristic of the adult. Fantham (689) has described in L. lovati of the grouse multiplica- tion by schizogony taking place in the spleen. The schizonts pro- duce a number of merozoites which escape into the blood, and doubtless give rise to the young forms of the leucocytezoa. The periodicity of the sexual forms in the blood observed by Mathis and Leger (473) depends, probably, on successive schizogonous generations occurring in the internal organs, such as Fantham has described. The method of transmission and the invertebrate host are as yet unknown. If blood containing the parasites in the condition of ripe gametocytes be drawn, the sexual phases and fertilization can be studied without difficulty on the shde. The female gametocytes round themselves off, losing their spindle-hke form, and burst their envelope. The male gametocytes contract themselves into two or three rounded masses, which give off about eight thread-hke microgametes altogether, in a manner similar to the " exflagel- lation " of the malarial parasites. The microgametes become de- tached and fertilize a female. Schaudinn (132) gave an account of the development of these parasites which cannot be accepted as correct. According to him, L. ziemanni oi dthene noctm is in reality the resting stage of a large trypanosome, ^yhlch