230 THE PROTOZOA ^ transversely (Pig. 50). In Difflugiaurceolata, Zuelzer (85) has described a process of chromidiosamv. iwo animals come together with the mouths of the shells in contact, and the entire contents of one shell flow over into the other, the empty sheU being cast ott The chromidia of the two animals fuse into a single mass ; the nuclei, however, remain separate. Copulation of this kind is a preliminary to encystment, which takes place in Nature at the end of October or the begmning of November. Prior to encystment the pscudopodia are retracted, all foreign bodies, food-remains, excreta, etc., are cast out, and the proto- plasmic body rounds itself off in the shell, and diminishes to about a quarter of its former volume, becoming denser and more refractile. The cyst- membrane is then secreted at the surface of the body. The old nuclei are gradually absorbed, and new nuclei are formed from the chromidial mass. The reconstitution of the nuclear apparatus takes place from January to April; in the spring the cyst is dissolved, and the rejuvenated Difflugia begins to feed and to enter upon a summer course of vegetative growth and repro- duction. In a recent note (86, p. 191, footnote) Zuelzer states that conjuga- tion between free gametes also occurs in this species. In Gentropyxis aculeata, according to Schaudinn (131), the ordinary vegeta- tive reproduction is by fission, the new shell that is formed being larger than the old one, until the maximum size is reached. Sexual processes are initiated by degeneration of the primary nucleus, which is single in this species. Then the protoplasm with the chromidia creeps out of the shell, and divides into a number of amoebulae, each containing chromidia which condense into a single nucleus. Some amcebulaj form a shell at once ; others before doing so divide into four smaller amoebulfe, and then form a shell. The larger are macrogamctes, the smaller the microgametes; they copulate and abandon their shells. The zygote forms a new shell, chromidia appear, and a fresh vegetative cycle is started. In a species of the genus Cryptodifjlugia {" Allogromia") a remarkable type of life-cycle has been described by Prandtl (265); see also Doflein (7), p. 310, Pig. 283. In this form also the organism, at the time of gamete- formation, quits its shell and penetrates into some other Protozoan organism, such as Amoeba proteus, in the body of which it becomes parasitic and goes through the process of gamete-formation. The nucleus breaks up into chromidia, from which secondary nuclei are formed, producing a multinucleate Plasmodium which multiplies by plasmotomy until the host is full of them. Ultimately the plasmodia break up into uninucleate cells, the gametes, which are set free and copulate. The zygote becomes a flagellated Bodo-like organism, with two flagella, one directed forward, the other backward as a trailing flagellum (p. 270, infra); it feeds and multiplies in this form for several generations in the free state, but ultimately it loses its flagella, becomes amoeboid, forms a shell, and develops into an adult Cryptodifflugia. Note- worthy in this development are the alternation of generations between the flagellated and the amoeboid phase, as in Pseudospora (p. 218), and the para- sitism in the gamete-forming phases; if, however, the Gryptodifflugia does not succeed in finding a suitable host, the gamete-formation may take place in the free state. From the life-cycles and sexual processes of Arcdla, Difflugia, Gentropyxis, etc., it is seen that the primary nuclei of all these forms are vegetative in nature, while the chromidia give rise to the gamete-nuclei, and consist of, or at least contam, the generative chromatin. The marine TrichospJmrim?i, however, stands apart from the fresh-water genera in regard to its structure, sexual processes, and life-cycle, in all of which it shows more similarity to the Foraminifera.