THE PROTOZOA 104 though in some cases it is accomplished at an earlier stage ; it takes place in one of two ways, known respectively as equating and re- ducing division. In equating division each chromosome divides into two daughter-chromosomes, a process which, in the finished and perfect karyokinesis of the higher organisms, is effected by a longi- tudinal splitting of the chromosome, and which may be interpreted as a simple division into two of each of the component chromidio- somes (compare Fig. 60). In reducing division, on the other hand, the individual chromosomes do not divide, but are sorted out, half of them going to one pole of the spindle, and eventually to one daughter-nucleus, the other half to the other ; with the result, finally, that each daughter-nucleus has half the number of chromo- somes possessed originally by the parent nucleus. Equating division is the usual type of karyoldnesis seen in ordinary cell- multiplication ; reducing division, on the other hand, is seen only in certain phases of the maturation of the germ-cells, as explained in the next chapter. In either type of division, whether equating or reducing, the equatorial plate of chromosomes as a whole divides into two daughter-plates, which separate from one another and travel towards the poles of the acliromatinic spindle. As the daughter-plates move away from each other, an achromatinic framework appears between them, in which a longitudinal striation or fibrillation is seen in line with, and continuing that of, the achromatinic spindle. Hence the achromatinic spindle as a whole consists now of the older terminal portions passing from the poles to the daughter-plates, and a new median portion passing between the two daughter-plates ; the two terminal portions constitute together what may be termed conveni- ently the " attraction-spindle," the median portion the " separation- spindle." As the daughter-plates travel further apart, the separa- tion-spindle elongates more and more"; the attraction-spindle, on the other hand, becomes shorter, usually to such a degree that the daughter-plates are brought close up to the poles of the attraction- spindle, which consequently is obliterated and disappears. When full separation of the daughter-plates is attained, the separation- spindle breaks down and disappears gradually, the middle part alone persisting in some cases ; the chromatin of the daughter-plates becomes rearranged to form the daughter-nuclei, going through a series of changes similar to those by which the chromosomes arose from the parent-nucleus, but in inverse order. A nuclear mem- brane is formed round each daughter-nucleus, and the process is complete. In the Metazoa, direct and karyokinetic division stand out as the sole types of nuclear division, in sharp contrast and without inter- mediate or transitional forms of the process. In Protozoa, on the