THE PROTOZOA 194 Some doubt has existed as to the power possessed by Protozoa of digesting fats, and, according to Staniewicz (208), no digestion of fat takes place in Infusoria. According to the recent investiga- tions of Nirenstein (182), however, Paramecia under natirral con- ditions contain fat in more or less considerable quantities. By choice of suitable food, the quantity of fat in the endoplasm can be increased greatly. The fat-granules serve as reserve-nutriment, and disappear under starvation. Paramecia which have lost their fat in this way, if then fed with milk, oU-emulsion, or yolk of egg rubbed up in water, show in a few hours the endoplasm fuU of fat- granules ; if fed with starch or particles of egg-albumen, the same result is obtained, but not to anything like the same extent. Experiments on fatty substances ingested by the animals showed that the fat remains unaltered during the first (acid) period of the digestion in the food-vacuole, and is digested during the second (alkaMne) period. Feeding with fatty acid and glycerine also leads to storage of fat in the endoplasm. If fed with oil-globules stained with Soudan III., unstained oil-globules appear in the endoplasm. Nirenstein concludes from his observations that the fat is broken up into its soluble components in the vacuole, and synthesized again to neutral fat in the endoplasm. The indigestible residues of the food are ejected from the body either at any point on the surface, in amoeboid forms, or through a definite aperture, in corticate forms. A great accumulation of fgecal matter may take place in some cases, as in the " stercome " of Foraminifera (p. 233), of Avhich the animal purges itself periodically. (c) Saprophytic and Parasitic Nutrition. — In this type the organism absorbs its nourishment by diffusion through the surface of the body without the aid of any visible organs or structural differentiations of any kind. Practically nothing is loiown of the mechanism by which this is effected or of the chemical processes involved, but it is probable that enzymes secreted by the organism reduce the nutritive particles to a soluble form prior to absorption. There is reason to behove that the nucleus is specially concerned in the production of enzymes, and in many species, parasitic or otherwise, the behaviour of the nucleus indicates a relationship between it and the process of absorption of food-substance. In Carchesium, as akeady stated, the path along which the food- vacuoles travel runs close along the inner edge of the horseshoe-shaped macronucleus (Greenwood, 162) ; in Euplotes, similarly, the large macronucleus encloses an area containmg aU the food-vacuoles (Fig. 182). Accordmg to Wallengren (214), the reactions of the food-vacuoles of Paramecium change as they pass the nucleus and the function of the cyclosis in the endoplasm is to bring the food-