THE HiEMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 309 mental stage of Hcemoproteits. Althougli, however, it is quite possible that some trypanosomes may have a heteromastigote ancestry, all the developmental facts hitherto discovered indicate a cercomonad ancestry witli a single anterior flagellum, and there is no concrete evidence of a heteromastigote origin for any species that has been studied up to the present. Trypanoplasms, so far as they have been studied, preserve tlieir biflagellate, heteromastigote type of structure throughout their development in all active phases, and never pass through a trypaniform or critliidial phase. Try- panosomes, on the other hand, show constantly a crithidial phase in the invertebrate host, but have not been observed in any case to be heteromastigote or even biflagellate, except temporarily during division, in any phase of the life-history. Consequently, attempts to subdivide trypanosomes on a morphological or phylogenetic basis must be regarded at present as premature (compare also Laveran, 461). II. The Genus Trypanoplasma. The peculiar distribution and occurrence of the species of this genus has been pointed out above. Originally founded for forms parasitic in the blood of fishes, it now comprises a somewhat heterogeneous collection of species, some of which were formerly referred to other genera of Flagellates. Of recent years, the number of species known to be parasitic in invertebrate hosts has increased, and is increasing rapidly. Such are T. (" Trypano- phis ") grqbbeni, formd in the gastrovascular system of Siphonophora (Keysselitz, 453) ; T. (" Bodo ") helicis, from the receptaciilumseminis of Helix pomatia and other snails (Friedrich) ; T. dendrocceli, from the digestive tract of Dendrocoelum lacteum (Fantham and Porter, P.Z.S., 1910, p. 670) ; T. vaginalis, from the female genital organs of leeches (Hesse, G.R.A.S., cli., p. 504) ; and T. gryllotalpce, from the end-gut of Gryllotalpa vulgaris (Hamburger). These examples show that the genus, as at present defined, is of widespread occur- rence. It may be doubted, however, if the various species described should aU be placed together. The species of Trypanoplasma parasitic in blood are only known as yet from fresh-water fishes ;* they have an alternation of hosts, being transmitted by leeches. The life-history of the intestinal trypanoplasms has not been in vestigated, but in all probabihty they have but a single host, which acquires the infection by swallowing accidentally their cysts or other resting stages passed out from a * The " Trypanoplasma " stated by Bruce and his colleagues (412, pp. 495 496) aYeSiLool '''"^ digestive tract of tsetse-fiies was in reality