THE PROTOZOA Z2Z slw f'1" P'^^"*^ cattle-fever iBahesia boms or 6^5r6m^7^a) was transmitted from sick to healthy oxen bv tfl; f .f Planation in the habits and life-h/story of hTl;. ^ l^",,^^'^^^^^^^ have typically three stages in their L- history- 1) the minute six-legged larva hatched from the egc, which, after growing to its full size, sheds its skin and appears as (2 the nymph, eight-legged, but sexually immature ; the nymph after another moult becomes (3) the adult tick, sexually mature and with four pairs of legs. In each of these three stages of the life- history the tick feeds, as a rule, but once. Consequently, if the parasites are taken up by the tick at one stage of its existence, they cannot be remoculated into another host until a later stage of the tick Smith and Kilborne found that the parasites taken up by the adult female ticks passed through their ova into the next generation ot the ectoparasites, so that the minute larval ticks, progeny of an infected mother, were the infective agents which spread the disease amongst the cattle. Subsequent investigations have confirmed and extended the dis- covery made by Smith and Kilborne, and in every case the m- vertebrate host of any species of piroplasm appears'to be a tick. In P. boms (bigeminum) the parasites develop only if taken up by an adult female tick (Koch), but this is not so in other cases. The parasites may be taken up by the tick at various stages, and returned to the vertebrate host at a later one ; for instance, by the larva and returned by the nymph, or by the nymph and returned by the adult, or by the adult and returned by the larva of the next generation.' Although the transmission of piroplasms by ticks is well estabUshed, the developmental cycle of the parasite in the tick is known only in a fragmentary and incomplete manner. The most complete accounts are those given by Christophers (732) for Piroplasma cams, and Koch (743) for P. bovis, whose observations supplement each other, since Koch studied chiefly the' earher stages, while Cliristophers' investigations appear to be more complete for later phases of development. Stages in the tick are also described by Dschunkowsky and Luhs (734), but in a disconnected manner, and observa- tions on the development in cultures have been pubhshed by Kleine (742) and by Nuttall and Graham-Smith (750). Accounts differ chiefly as to the events at the begmning of the development. So far as it is possible to make a connected story out of the pubhshed observations, the development in the tick appears to comprise six principal phases: 1. The piroplasms taken up in the blood pass into the stomach of the tick, and there the pear-shaped forms are set free from the corpuscles, these forms alone being capable of further development. After about twelve to eighteen hours they become amoeboid, sending out in all directions slender, stiff, sharply-pointed pseudopodia which are slowly re- tracted and emitted again. UsuaUy the pseudopodia are given off chiefly from the thicker end of the pear-shaped body, but in some cases the form is spherical and the appearance of the parasite strikingly Heliozoon-like (Fig. 162, A—C). The nucleus of the parasite divides into two parts—a larger mass,