POLYMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES 163 into species, by blending the divergent characters that may be supposed to arise from the influence of different conditions or circumstances of life. Thus, syngamy in unicellular organisms appears to have an effect which is the opposite, to a large extent, to that which it produces in multicellular organisms, in which there are special germ-cells, sheltered to a greater or less degree from the direct influence of the environment, and in which amphimixis appears rather to be a means by which variations arise. The conception of a species is by no means incompatible with the occurrence of a number of distinct forms in its life-history. Taking well-lcnown instances from the Metazoa, there may be, in the first place, ontogenetic or developmental differences ; not only may the individuals of the same species differ in size at different periods in the development, but they may differ so greatly m appearance and structure that only a knowledge of the life-history enables us to assert that they belong to the same species—as, for example, a caterpillar and a butterfly, or a hydroid and a medusa. Secondly, the adult individuals may differ to an enormous extent in the two sexes. Thirdly, there may be in many cases differences between mdividuals of a species related to differences in the functions wliich they perform, not merely at successive phases in the life-history, as m some cases of ontogenetic differentiation already mentioned' but even at correspondmg phases of the life-history—a phenomenon best seen m social or colony-forming organisms, as in the case of ants and termites, or in the colonies of Hydrozoa. In Protozoa, similarly, a given species may show distinct phases or forms at different or correspondmg periods of its life-history to a greater or less extent. In some species the form-changes are very slight, and the individuals occur always under a similar form and aspect, at least durmg the active state, and are therefore recog- nizable without difficulty as regards their specific identity • such forms may be termed monomorphic, and as examples the species of cihate Infusoria can be cited. Other Protozoa, on the other hand are extremely volymorpUc~t}xs.i is to say, they occur under a variety of widely-differing forms at differenLtages in the life cycle or m res|onse to variations in the conditions of life. Hence it is often difficult or impossible to refer a given form to its proper species without tracing out its life-history and following its develop ment step by step. The unravellmg of the complicated life lycles of Protozoa is attended by far greater difficulties than in Metazoa ha? Zr:rT' 1'™ ''^"^ - the Proto oa that, namely, of sexual maturity. A naturalist has no hesitation in pronouncing a trochophore to be a larval form, and a roti^e to be an adult organism, from the fact that the former I sexual v immature, while the latter produces ripe generative cells In S