126 THE PROTOZOA Sexual union of similar gametes is termed isogamy; of dissimilar amsogamy. When the gametes are differentiated, then one gamete IS generally smaller, more active, often with highly developed motor mechanisms, and without reserve food-material in the cytoplasm ; this is the microgamete, regarded as male. The other gamete, on the contrary, exhibits a tendency, more or less pro- nounced, to be large, inert, without motor mechanisms of any kmd, and to store up reserve food-material in the cytoplasm the macrogamete, regarded as female. The differentiation of the gametes is seen to be a specialization of two lands of cell-individuals, the one rich in motile or kinetic protoplasm but poor in trophic substance, the other rich in trophic protoplasm but poor in kinetic substance. In some cases the sexual differentiation may affect also the mother-cells of the gametes, the gametocytes, or may be thrown back still farther in the series of generations preceding the gametes ; in such cases a number of successive generations of gamonts exhibiting sexual differentiation terminate in a gameto- cyte generation from which the actual gametes arise. Thirdly, in the process of sexual union, or syngamy, as it may be termed comprehensively, the bodies of the two gametes do not always fuse completely ; in some cases the two gametes come together and merely interchange portions of their nuclear apparatus, remaining separate and retaining their distinct mdividuality. The nucleus which remains stationary in the one gamete then fuses with the migratory nucleus derived from the other gamete. Examples of this type of syngamy are seen in the Infusoria (Pig. 77). The type of syngamy in which the two gametes fuse completely is sometimes termed copulation (or total karyogamy); that in which they remain separate and exchange nuclear material, is known as conjugation (or partial karyogamy), and the two sexual individuals themselves as conjugants (they should not, perhaps, be termed " gametes," strictly speaking, for reasons explained below) ; but the term " conjugation " is often used quite loosely for either type and lacks precision. These differences in the sexual process between Protozoa and the higher organisms enable us to give a wider significance, and at the same time a more precise definition, to the word " syngamy." However varied in detail, S3Tigamy is essentially nothing more than an intermingling of chromatin-substance derived from two distinct cell-individuals. Plus ga change, plus c'est la meme chose. The chromatm that undergoes syngamic union may be in the form either of chromidia or of nuclei; in the former case the process is termed chromidiogamy, in the second karyogamy. Chromidiogamy, though probably the most primitive type, is known to occur only in a few Sarcodina {Difflugia, p. 230; Arcella, p. 148). In the vast