THE SARCODINA ; 23i II. FOBAMINIFERA. General Characters—Shell-Structure.—The characteristic features of this group are the possession of reticulosc pseudopodia and of a sheU or test. The Foraminifera are typically creeping forms, moving slowly, and using their net-like pseudopodia chiefly for food- capture. Certain genera, however, such as Globigerina, have taken secondarily to a pelagic existence, and float on the surface of the ocean, spreading their nets in all directions around them. On the other hand, some forms have adopted a sedentary life, attaching themselves firmly to some object. An example is seen in the genus Haliphysema (Fig. 17), once believed to be a sponge, and in the remarkable genus Polytrema and allied forms, recently monographed by Hickson (282)—organisms which in many cases have a striking and deceptive resemblance to corals. The test may be secreted by the animal itseK, and then is usually either chitinous or calcareous, rarely siUceous or gelatinous [Myxo- theca) ; or it may be made up of foreign bodies cemented together, as in HaHphysema (Fig. 17), and is termed generally " arenaceous,'* but the materials used may be of various kinds, and the organism sometimes exliibits a remarkable power of selection (see p. 34, supra). The typical form of the shell, as in the Amoebaea Testacea, is a chamber with a w'de aperture—sometimes more than one— through which the pseudopodia are extruded, as in Gromia (Fig. 21). In addition to the principal aperture, the wall of the shell may be perforated by numerous fine pores, through which also the protoplasm can stream out to the exterior. Hence the shells of Foraminifera are distinguished primarily as perforate and imperforate, the former with, the latter without, fuie pores in addition to the principal opening. Wliether perforate or imperforate, the shell remains a single chamber in the simple forms, as in the Amoebsea Testacea. In some cases, when the animal reproduces itself by binary fission, the proto- plasm streams out through the principal aperture to give rise to the body of the daughter-individual, which forms a shell for itself, and, when the division is complete, separates completely from the mother, which retains the old shell. Division of this type is seen in Euglypha (Fig. 59). But in many species, when the animal out- grows its original single-chambered shell, the protoplasm flows out and forms another chamber, which, however, is not separated off as a distinct individual, but remains continuous with the old shell, so that the animal, instead of reproducing itself by fission, rem%ins a single individual with a two-chambered shell. By further growth, third, fourth, ,.. nth chambers are formed successively, each newly- formed chamber being, as a rule, slightly larger than that formed