447 THE INFUSORIA 1 organs, probably tactile, between the membranolla3 of the adoral spiral of Tiyitinnidce (Schwoyer). The natiu-e and mechanism of tlic peculiar trichocysts remains to be ex- plained. The trichocyst in the imexploded state is a spindle-shaped body with a fine, hair-like process at its outer end which reaches to the pellicle (Fig. 18G, D, T.). The exploded trichocyst tapers gradually to a sharp point at its proximal end ; distally it shows a cap-like swelling (Fig. 187, D—O). According to Khainsky (170-5) the trichocyst consists of two portions : a distal or outer part which stains deeply, and a proximal or inner part which stains a lighter colour (Fig. 187, A—C). The unexploded trichocyst consists entirely or almost entirely of the darker substance ; in the process of explosion the dark substance is con- verted into the light, so that in the exploded trichocyst only a small portion of the dark substance remains to form the distal cap. The notion, recently upheld by JVIitrophanow (855), that the tricho- cyst consists of viscid fluid con- tained in a cavity in the ectoplasm, whence it is expelled by a sudden contraction of the ectoplasm, and stiffens to a solid thread under the action of the watery medium, cannot be maintained (Schuberg, 44); nor does there seem to be any ground for comparing it to a Ccelenterate nematocyst or to a polar capsule of a Cnidosporidian spore. According to Mitrophanow, the substance of the trichocysts appears first near the nucleus in the endoplasm as small grains which pass out into the ectoplasm. Tricho- cysts do not occur in any Peritricha, but in one species, Epistylis umbel- laria, large oval nematocysts occur, arranged in pairs—a phenomenon unique amongst the Cihata. The contractile vacuoles open to the exterior as a general rule, but in the Peritricha, as already stated, they open into the vestibule; in this order there is usually a reservoix- vacuole into which one or two con- tractile vacuoles empty themselves, and which in its turn voids its contents into the vestibule. In Campanella, however, there is no reservoir- vacuole, and the single contractile vacuole opens by two canals into the vestibule (Schroder, 8G4). In Opalina there are no contractile vacuoles and m some species {e.g., 0. ranarum) no excretory organs are to be found • but m other species the endoplasm contains an axial series of more or less irregular vacuoles, opening one into the other and to the exterior by a pore at the posterior end of the body. These vacuoles are sometimes in close relation with the nuclei, often enveloping them to form a perinuclear space (Metcalf 90^). in Fycnothnx monocystoides the endoplasm is traversed by a branched V ^''f ^^^^^^ ^ s^"gle efferent duct opening at the surface of the body near the posterior end by I pore ; the duct is ciliated and IS homologized by Schubotz with the cytopyge, which in %cLw is E F Fig. 187.—Trichocysts of Infusoria. A—E, Stages in the explosion of the trichocysts of Paramecium caudatum, showing the manner in which the tricho- cyst grows in length, with conversion of a darkly-staining substance into a lighter material; the fully-exploded trichocysts are seen in D and E. After Khainsky (170-5). F, G. Exploded trichocysts of Frontonia leucas. After Schuberg, magnified 1,500 diameters.