125 CHAPTER VIII SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA Kvwpi. vefj-effo-ard, Kvirpi dvaroiaiv a.irexO-t)S. It is a matter of common knowledge that amongst all the higher animals and plants the phenomena of sexual generation and sexual differentiation are of universal occurrence. Reduced to its simplest terms, and stripped of all secondary complications, the sexual process in an ordinary animal or plant consists essentially of the following series of events : In the multicellular body certain cells are produced which may be termed comprehensively and universally the gametes. In the two sexes the gametes exhibit characteristic differences ; those of the male sex, the spermatozoa, are typically minute, active, and produced in large numbers ; those of the female sex, the ova, are, on the contrary, relatively bulky, inert, and produced in far fewer numbers. The gametes are set free from the body, or, at least, from the organs in which they arise, and each male gamete, if it finds a partner and if circumstances permit, unites with a female gamete ; their bodies fuse completely, cell with cell and nucleus with nucleus, and the product is a " fertilized ovum," or zygote, a single cell which proceeds to multiply actively by cell-division, the final result being a new multicellular individual. In the Protista belonging to what has been termed in the first chapter of this book the " cellular grade"—that is to say, in the Protozoa and the unicellular plants sexual phenomena are also of widespread, probably of universal, occurrence, and the process of sexual union differs only in unessential points from that seen in higher organisms. In the first place, since the individual in Protozoa is a single cell, the gametes themselves are also complete individuals, modifica- tions merely of the ordinary individuals of the species produced at certain periods or phases of the life-cycle. Secondly, the differentiation of male and female gametes rarely attains to the high degree seen in the Metazoa, and may be nil; the two gametes may be perfectly similar in all perceptible features of structure or constitution, as, for example, Cojyromonas (Fig. 111).