204 THE PROTOZOA the differences slowly disappear by the diffusion of the one liquid into the other. Chemotaxis is a phenomenon which is obviously of the greatest importance in the natural life of the oi'ganism. It comes into play in the search for food and in sexual attraction, for example. It has long been known that certain Protozoa are attracted towards food- substances, especially those species which feed more or less exclusively upon certain particular foods. Plasmodia of Mycetozoa, for example, "scent" their food from a considerable distance, and move towards it. Rhumbler (34, 204) has studied the ingestion of food by amoebaj, and has made a number of experiments on the manner in which drops of fluid take up or cast out solid particles. Thus, a drop of cliloroform suspended in water draws into its interior a glass splinter coated with shellac when brought into contact with it; after a time the coating of shellac is dissolved in the chloro- form, and the glass splinter is then ejected from the drop. This experiment furnishes data for a mechanical explanation of the ingestion of food and ejection of faecal matter; and it might be expected that amcebse in Nature would ingest mechanically, and as it were helplessly, many substances of a useless kind with which they are brought into contact. This may occur experimentally when amoebae are brought into contact with substances of no nutritive value ; Rhumbler observed an amoeba which ingested carmine- particles until it died. In Nature, however, there can be no doubt that amoebae exercise a certain choice or selection in the food they ingest, doubtless as the effect of rliemotactic reactions (compare Jennings, 168). In the Ciliata, however, tiiere appears to be no selection of the food-particles wafted down the oesophagus except as regards their size (compare Greenwood, 162). Purely mechanical reactions, on the other hand, may possibly explain the apparent selection which many Protozoa exhibit in buildmg up houses of cer- tain special materials (p. 34). Chemotactic reactions to particular substances must play a large part in determining the migrations of certain parasitic Protozoa towards particular organs of the body in which they are parasitic, in so far as such migrations are not purely passive on the part of the parasite, or determined to some extent by rheotaxis (see below). The attraction of gametes to one another can hardly be effected by any- thmg but chemotaxis. It is well known that the antherozoids of the fern- prothallus are positively chemotactic to malic acid, which is secreted by the o6<^onium. In Coccidium sclmbergi, Schaudinn (99) observed that the macro- gamete, as soon as it had expeUed its karyosome, but not before, became attractive to the microgamete. j, , t. 4. The effects of drugs and reagents on the activities of the Protozoa is a field of investigation which cannot be dealt with in detail here, home reaeents have a quickening effect on the movements, others the contrary. Narcotics, on the other hand, such as alcohol, ether, etc., may at first have a stimulating, later a deleterious, action on the vital activity. Mmute doses of alcohol, according to Woodruff (216), diminish the rate of division at one period, augment it at another, of the life-cycle, but in the latter case the rate is not continuous, but decreases again; increase in the amount of alcohol wiU however, again cause a more rapid cell-division for a limited period. Thyroid extract is stated to have an attractive effect on Parmnecnim, and also incLses its capacity for reproduction (No^^koff, If j" ^f^^^.^ other drugs and poisons, see Giemsa and Prowazek (159), and Irowazet n 91 192! and 195). In the same culture different individuals often exhibit different powers of resistance to the effects of reagents.