THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 61 supplying the contractile vacuole or vacuoles. Thus, in Stentor 8) the single vacuole is fed by a canal running the length of he'body, and in Paramecium (Fig. 185) the two vacuoles are each surround^ by a number of canals forming a star-shaped figure. As regards the function of the contractile vacuoles, it should be noted i^ the first place that their contents are always fluid and watery, and never contain solid particles of any land. The fluid which a contractile vacuole drains from the body is doubtless replaced by water absorbed from the surrounding medmm by diffusion tlH-ough the superficial layer of the protoplasm, or it may be tlii-ough the mouth in some cases. The contractile vacuole is generally regarded as the organ of nitrogenous excretion, comparable functionally to the urinary organs of the Metazoa, but it is highly probable that the liquid discharged from it contains also the carbon dioxide pro- duced by the respiratory process. Hence the contractile vacuole may be regarded as both excretory and respiratory in function (see also p. 197, infra). 4. In the majority of Protozoa there are no organs for which a defi- nite sensory or nervous function can be claimed, although these organ- isms show by their reactions to the environment or to stimuli that they possess sensory and psychical func- tions. In some cases, however, certain organs can be asserted to have a sensory function, exhibited in sensitiveness either to impressions of touch or light. Thus, in many Flagellates the flagella appear to be tactile as well as locomotor in function, and in Ciliata tactile cilia occur, especially in the creeping hypotrichous forms. Sensitiveness to light is a marked feature of many Protozoa, even of quite undifferentiated forms, such as amoebse. Rhumbler (34) has shown that many amoebse cease feeding in a strong light, and even disgorge food that they have taken in when suddenly subjected to the intense illumination necessary for microscopic study. This characteristic is, however, most marked in the holo- phytic species, to which light is a necessity for their plant-like metabolism. In the holophytic Flagellates a red pigment-spot, or stigma, is found constantly, situated close to the anterior end of the Fig. 31.—Pouchetia cornuta, one of the Dinoflagellata, to show the large stigma (st.), in front of which is a lens {L). After Schiitt (386).