THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 43 Those investigators of the Protozoa who have expressed an opinion on the subject have been for the most part m favour of the alveolar theory of protoplasm, since it was first propounded by its author, BiitsclJi (see especially Rhumbler). Protozoa as a rule Ire very favourable objects in which to study the io-m-hke s^^^^^^ of the protoplasm (compare Schaudinn, 130, p. 188) But what- ever view be held as to the ultimate structure of protoplasm its essentially fluid nature is very apparent in these organisms and is a point upon which it is very important to be dear The fluid condition of the living substance is manifested directly by the streaming movements to be observed in it, and indirectly by a number of phenomena, such as the tendency, akeady mentioned of the body to round itself off when at rest, and the tendency of all vacuoles to assume a spherical form. A vacuole is a drop of fluid suspended in the protoplasmic body, and may be regarded as formed by the bursting and running together of many minute alveoli, just as a large bubble in a foam may arise by the union of many smaller ones ; or by the gradual enlargement of a single alveolus by diffusion of fluid into it from neighbouring alveoli, until it attains proportions relatively gigantic. Vacuoles assume uni- formly spherical contours, except when they are deformed by mutual pressure from crowding together or from other causes. In some cases the protoplasm may be so full of coarse vacuoles that it exhibits an obvious frothy structure, which must by no means be confounded with the ultimate alveolar structure of the protoplasm, a structure which is exceedingly delicate, only to be observed with high powers of the microscope and with careful attention to all details of microscopic technique. Examples of vacuolated bodies are seen especially in Heliozoa—e.g., Actinosphcerium (Fig. 3). The statement, however, that protoplasm generally is of fluid nature admits of its exhibiting many degrees of fluidity, and some samples of protoplasm are far more viscid than others. This is true both of different species of organisms, of the same species at different phases of its development, and of different parts of the same organism. In some cases portions of the protoplasm may be stiffened to a degree that perhaps oversteps the ill-defined boundary between the liquid and solid states of matter. In a great many Protozoa, perhaps the majority of them, the protoplasm of the body is divisible, more or less distinctly, into two regions— namely : 1. An external or cortical zone, termed ectoplasm or ectosarc ; in appearance and consistence typically clear, hyaline, more refringent, finely granular or without visible granulations, and of more viscid nature ; in function protective, kinetic, excretory, and sensory. 2. An internal or medullary region, the endoplasm or endosarc ;