CHAPTER VI THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA {Continued) ^TUE NUCLEAR APPARATUS—CHROMATIN, NUCLEUS, CHROMIDIA, CENTROSOMES, AND BLEPHAROPLASTS Of all the parts or organs of the cell-body, there is none of greater importance for the life and activities of the organism than the so-called nucleus, a term which, understood literally, means simply a kernel or central portion of the body, and conveys no idea of the true nature of the structure in question or of its significance for the life of the organism. The cell-nucleus, in all its various modifications of form and structure, is essentially and primarily a collection of grains and particles of a peculiar substance which has received the name chromatin, on account of its characteristic tendency to combine with certain colouring matters and dyes. A nucleus may consist, perhaps, in some cases of little more than a single mass of chromatin, or of several such masses clumped together. In most cases, how- ever, the chromatia is combined with other substances which may be termed comprehensively achromatin, and which are built up with the chromatin in such a way as to produce a complicated nuclear structure, as will be described in detail presently. The chromatiti-substance is not necessarily, however, concen- trated entirely in the nucleus in all cases. In many Protozoa, especially amongst the Sarcodina, as, for example, Arcella (Fig. 32), Difflugia, and many other genera, the cell-body contams, in addi- tion to one or more nuclei, extranuclear granules of chromatin, termed chromidia,* which may be scattered in the cytoplasm * The term " chromidia," ia the German form " Chromidien," was coined by Hertwig (66) to denote the extranuclear grains of chromatin, and the whole mass, of them in the cell-body was spoken of as a " Chromidialnetz." Subsequent authors, however, have used the word in its singular form, " chromidium," in a collective sense, to denote the entire mass of chromidia present in a cellular organ- ism, and not, as might have been expected, to mean the individual grains or particles of chromatin which constitute the chromidial mass. In order to avoid confusion, it is proposed in this work to use the term chromidiosome to denote the smallest chromatin-particles of which the chromidial mass ia made up, and which grow and multiply by division like other elementary living bodies. It is clear, however, that tlie chromidiosomcs of which the chromidial mass scattered in the cytoplasm is built up are in no way different in kind from the minutest granules of chromatin contained in the nucleus. The term "chromidiosome" must there- fore be applied to. the ultimate, individual grain or particle of chromatin, alike whether it be lodged inside or outside a nucleus.