THE H^MOSPORIDIA 377 number of large mcrozoites (compare //. canis, below). In both H gerbilh and // jactdi free vermicules occur, and are set free readily m vitro / those ot H qerhilli are recurved when contained in the blood-corpuscle, btagcs of the development of H. gerhilli were found in a louse, H(smaiopinus stephensi; first free vermicules in the stomach and intestine, later large cysts m the body-cavity containing a great number of spores, each of which encloses six to eight sporozoites. It seems impossible that the parasites encysted m the body-cavity of the louse should get back into the gerbille m any other way than that of being eaten by the gerbiUe. Christophers found that, though the sporozoites were liberated in the intestinal juice of the gerbiUe, they soon died in it, but that in the blood-plasma of the gerbiUe they became extremely active; this observation may perhaps be interpreted as indicating that the spores germinate in the intestme, and the sporozoites, when liberated, pass at once through the wall of the mtestine into the blood-ckculation. The crithidial forms seen by Balfour in Pulex deopatrce can have no connec- tion whatever with the hsemogregarine of the jerboa ; the flea is probably not the right host for this parasite. A number of leucocytic gregarines have been described from various mam- mals, amongst which may be mentioned H. canis (Christophers, 7O0), H. funambuli (Patton, 721), and H. musculi (Porter). The life-cycle of H. canis has been described by Wenyon (84). The schizogony takes place in the bone- marrow and the spleen of the dog, and is of two distinct types. In the one case the schizont divides into a small number of merozoites, usually three, of large size. In the second case the schizogony results in the prodTXction of a large number of small merozoites. The larger merozoites grow up into schizonts again ; the small merozoites pass into the blood, are taken up by the leucocytes, and become the gametocytes, as in H. muris. The sporogony takes place in the tick, Bhipicephalus sanguineus, and is similar throughout to that of H. muris. The sexual phases were not observed by Wenyon, but according to Christophers (701) the vermicules become free in the stomach, and penetrate the epithelial cells, in which they multiply by fission to form gametes ; probably this apphes to the male sex alone. The next stage is an oocyst in the tissues of the tick. The oocyst grows in size, its nuclei multiply, some thirty to fifty uninucleate sporoblasts are formed, and each secretes a sporocyst and becomes a spore containing on the average sixteen sporozoites. The oocyst-wall dissolves, and the ripe spores are set free in the body of the tick. Wenyon considers it possible that the dog acquires the infection by eating infected ticks. Free vermicules of H. funambuli were seen in a louse by Patton, and a similar observation was made for H. musculi by Porter. H. musculi also reproduces by schizogony in the bone-marrow of its host. The haemogregarines of birds described by Aragao (692) appear to be very similar to those parasitic in the leucocytes of mammals. The schizogony takes place in the epithehal cells of the gut or in the cells of the liver, lung, or bone-marrow; it results in the formation of a number of small, comma- shaped merozoites, which escape from the cell and are taken up by the mono- nuclear leucocytes. They do not, however, remain in a resting phase in the leucocytes, but grow within them to a fair size. When set free from the leucocyte, they perform active movements. The intermediate host and the mode of transmission remain, however, to be discovered. The schizogony of hamogregarines parasitic in snakes has been studied by Sambon and Seligmann, Hartmann and Chagas (89), and Laveran and Pettit (716). It takes place in the capillaries of the liver and lung or in the bone-marrow. The parasite becomes free from the corpuscle in the capillary, and grows to a large size. In H. sebai the number of merozoites formed varies from two or four to over thirty, but is more often from four to eight. The merozoites are larger when a smaller number is produced. Possibly the variation is related to the age of the infection, as in H. stepanowi, or to the destiny of the merozoites, whether to become schizonts or gametocytes, as in H. canis. The sporogony of the haemogrcgarines of terrestrial reptiles is practically