252 THE PROTOZOA organisms captured by the pseudopodia and passed into the body, to be digested in tliis region. In the 'Tripylaria an aggregation of food-material and excretory substances produces a characteristic greenish or brownish mass concentrated round the main aperture of the central capsule, and known as the phceodivm, whence this suborder is sometimes known as the Phseodaria. 2. The calymma is composed for the most part of a great number of vacuoles containing fluid, the function of which is hydrostatic ; the contents of the vacuoles are stated to be water saturated with carbon dioxide, causing the animal to float at the surface, and enabling it to regulate its position in relation to conditions of environ- ment. In rough weather the vacuoles burst or are expelled from the body, and the animal sinks into deeper and quieter layers of water; there fresh vacuoles are formed, enabling it to return again to the surface if the conditions are favourable. Contractile vacuoles of the ordinary type are not present. In addition to the vacuoles, the calymma contains numerous " yellow cells," generally regarded as sym- biotic organisms of vegetable nature, and named " zooxantheUae" or " zoochloreUse," according to their colour. Absent in the Tripylaria, these yeUow cells are found, as a rule, in the calymma, but in Acantharia they occur in the intra- capsular protoplasm (Fig. 105, x). The nature of the yellow cells of Acantharia has been much disputed, and many observers have regarded them as an integral part of the organism itself ; this view has recently been revived by Moroff and Stiasny, who bring forward evidence to prove that the yellow cells of Acantharia are a developmental phase of the organism. Still more recently this view has been extended by Stiasny to the colony-forming Sphserozoa in the first place, and then to Radiolaria generally. The difiiculty in the way of such an interpretation which arises from the co-existence, in Thalassicolla and other genera, of yellow cells in the calymma, with an undivided nucleus in the host- organism, is met by supposing that in such cases developmental Fig. 106. — Lithocircus productus, Hertwig, showing a bilaterally symmetrical skeleton consisting of a simple siliceous ring pro- longed into spicular processes. sk., Skeleton ; c.c, central cap- sule ; pf., pore-area, surmounted by a conical structure (c), the so-called " pseudopodial cone " ; N., nucleus; o., oil-globule. After Biitschli, Leuckart and Nitsche's " Zoologische Wand- tafeln."