THE PROTOZOA 450 that found in other Protozoa. In this case, during the ordinary vegetative condition, the generative chromatin representing the micronuclcus of other Infusoria, and tlic vegolativo cliromatiu representing the macronucleus, are contained in one and the same nucleus, and become separate only when syngamy is about to take place. Tlio first sigii of the separation is the forma- tion of chromidia from the karyosome within the nucleus, resulting in the formation of a secondary nucleus which becomes separate and which behaves exactly as an ordinary micronuclcus ; thus indicating a clear homology between the micronuclei of Infusoria and the secondary generative nuclei of Sarcodina. The production of numerous micronuclei in the conjugation of Trachelocerca N' Fig. 188.—Formation of micronuclei in Trachdocerca phwnicopterus. A, B, A nucleus has divided into two. and from the karyosome (Jc.) of each daughter- nucleus masses of chromatin are being given o£E into the nuclear cavity ; G, D, the two nuclei of the preceding stages have divided again, to form a group of four, and the chromatin-masses (n) have acquired a compact struc- ture and are passing out of the nuclei to form the micronuclei; in G crystals are seen in the cavities of the old nuclei, probably a sign of degeneration ; E, F, two groups of nuclei, both from the same specimen ; the micronuclei given off from the old nuclei become surrounded by a vacuole (n' in F), and then acquire an alveolar stracture {n' in E); G, portion of a preparation of the body of a conjugant, the wavy contour on the right being the surface of the body which is in contact with the other conjugant ; numerous micronuclei (n) are seen, and also macronuclei, some of which still appear normal (A), others degenerating (N'). After Lebedew (93). is noteworthy, and would appear to favour the theory (see p. 154) that primi- tively numerous gametes (swarm-spores) were produced in the conjugation °^Smpl'es of a complicated life cycle are to be found in Cihata chiefly, perhaps solely, among parasitic forms. As an example may bo taken Icli- thyopMhirius multifiliis, a parasite of the skin of various species of fresh-;^a^r fishes. In aquaria, where, owing to the limited space, the parasites, if present find their way to the fish very easily, and where, consequently, a fif^ becomes infected with vast numbers of the ciliates, the parasites are "/\;^"yj^^^^^ the host, and cause its death, according to Buschkiel, m fJ^out ourteen dajs In Nature, on the other hand, " ichthyophthiriasis ' is seldom observed, prob-