331 THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA parasite no longer, and may now be ejected with the faeces. The nucleus of each sporont then divides by repeated binary fission (Fig. 144, b) into a large number of nuclei, which place themselves at the surface of the body (Fig. 144, c). A question much debated with regard to the life-history of gregarines is whether a single sporont can encyst by itself, without association with another, and then proceed to the formation of spores. It has been asserted frequently that this can occur, and the suggestion has been put forward that the differences in the size of the spore observed in some species may be correlated with double or solitary encystment. ScheUack (630) has discussed the question in detail, and is of opinion that in septate eugregarines solitary encystment either does Fig. 144 —Schematic figures of syngamy and spore-formation in gregarines a. Union of two sporonts in a common cyst ; b, various stages of nuclear division in each sporont; c, formation of gametids beginning (" pearl-stage ") • d. stages m the copulation of the gametes : in the left upper quadrant of the figure, separate gametes are seen ; in the left lower quadrant the gametes are uniting in pairs ; the right lower quadrant shows fusion of the pronuclei • and m the right upper quadrant complete zygotes (sporoblasts) are seen • c, stages in the division of the nuclei of the sporoblasts, which assume an oval form ; a different stage is seen in each quadrant, eight nuclei being present in the final stage; /, cyst with ripe spores, each containing St B° cki^^ ' ^""^ ^^^^ ™ cross-section. Modified after Calkins and not occur, or leads to nothing if it does, but that amongst the Acephalina and schizogregarmes it can take place ; a clear case has bin described by Lver m Ltthocyshs schneiden, parasite of EcUnocardium; and m Monocvftis Srifd: MaTlL^r*^^ '^^''^^ sporo-form^tion is deSerby Lognetti de Martns. In some species cysts containing three sporonts have nuclei With regard to the dilfcrences in the sizo of the spores the noT bihty has to be taken into account that in some eases thoy may be deveCd parthenogenetically-that is to say, the gametids may each bLomrrsporo blast directly, without copulation wth another. ut^comc a sporo-