127 SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA majority of Protozoa, as in all ImoAvn cases amongst Metazoa and plants, syngamy takes the form of karyogamy. The nuclei of the gametes are termed pronuclei, and the nucleus that results from fusion of the pronuclei in the zygote is termed a synkaryon. In many Protozoa {e.g. Coccidmm, Fig. 69) the fusion of the two pronuclei is effected by moans of a peculiar mechanism termed a " fertilization- spmdle." When the two pronuclei are in contact, the female pronucleus first takes an elongated, fusiform shape, having its chromatin-grains spread over an achromatinic framework. The cliromatin of the male pronucleus is then spread over the same structure. This mechanism has nothing to do with nuclear division, but merely effects a complete intermingling of the chromatin of the pronuclei, after which the synkaryon assumes its normal appearance and rounded form. In Infusoria the two pronuclei fuse in the condition of the karyokinetic spindle in many cases. Fig. 69.—Fertilization of Coccidium schubergi. A, Pene- tration of the macrogamete by one of five micro- gametes ; the female pronucleus has an elongated form ; B, the favoured microgamete has passed into the interior of the macrogamete, which has secreted a membrane (oocyst) at the surface of the body, ex- cluding the other microgametes ; 0, the female pro- nucleus has assumed an elongated, spindle-like form, while the male pronucleus lies at one pole of the spindle in the form of a little mass of granules ; the excluded microgametes are degenerating; D, the granules of the male pronucleus have spread themselves over the spindle-figure formed by the female pronucleus; E, the fertilization-spindle seen in D has rounded itself off to form the synkaryon and fertfiization is complete, c? , Microgametes ; ? , macrogamete ; w c?, male pronucleus; w?, female pronucleus; f.s., fertilization-spindle; c, oocvst • no synkaryon. After Schaudinn (99), magnified 2,250. ^ ' True sjTigaray, as defined above, must be distinguished carefully from certam other phenomena which are likely to be confused with it; it must not be assumed that every fusion of cells, or even of nuclei, is necessarily a case of syngamy. In some Protozoa the mother-cells of the gametes the gametocytes, enter mto a more or less close association prior to the formation ot gametes, which are produced in due course and then perform the act of syngamy m the normal manner. An example of such association is seen m gregannes (p. 3.30), where association between adult gametocytes is the rule. Sometimes the two gametocytes associate in the earliest stages of their growth, as m Diplocystis (Fig. 70, A), and their bodies may then fuse ^w!^^7n^ ^/ ''i ^^^^^ ^^'^^in distinct, as in Cystobia (^ig. 70, Ji) and give rise in due course to the pronuclei of distinct gametes LTr!!!^"'" P''f,''?,T''^ ''association of this kind occurs are described as bemg neogamous (Woodcock). In many cases union of distinct individuals can bo observed which have nothing to do with syngamy, since no fusion takes place of nuclei, but only