THE PROTOZOA 288 n one of the throe ways ; a certain number show the body extended nearlv in a straight hnc, with the free edge of the membrane much pSed but as a rule the body is curved, and then either with one principal bend like a 0 or with several b- iko serpentme bends. In either case the lindulatii g membmne IS seen almost invariably to run on the convex side of each curve InC-vZ forms (Fig 125, A) the membrane runs evenly along the outside of the prin^c S curve, and the myonemes parallel to it. In S-like forms (Fig. 125 ^) the membrane is often seen distinctly to be spiraUy twisted round the body the myonemes also exhibiting the same twist. In life the undulating membrane performs as its name implies, movements like those of a sail flapping in the wmd. Wave-like undulations rmi along it from one end to the other, but not always in the same direction ; it has been observed that reversals of the move- ments may take place, the waves first running in one direction for a time, and then suddenly undergoing a change and rmuiing in the opposite direction (Minchm and Woodcock, 42). Much confusion exists in the nomenclature of the parts of the trypanosome- body, more especiaUy with regard to the small body for which Woodcock's term " kinetonucleus " (" Geisselkern ") is here used—a confusion due to differences of cytological mterpretation. While it has never been doubted that the larger body [N.) is a true nucleus, various views have been held with regard to the smaller body (w.), which, summarized briefly, are as follows : The older writers regarded it merely as an organ of the periplast from which the flagellum arose. Stassano and Bradford and Plimmer re- garded n. as a body of nuclear nature, and termed it the " micronucleus," comparing it with the similarly-named body of Infusoria. Laveran and Mesnil (464, 391), on the other hand, regarded n. as the " centrosome," the name by which it is generaUy known in France. Schaudmn (132) emphasized strongly its nuclear nature, and stated that n. was not a centrosome, but nevertheless used for it the term " blepharoplast," by which it is still generaUy known in Germany, although a true blepharoplast is a body of centrosomie nature. Moore and Breinl (484) reverted to the centrosomie view, and termed n. the " extranuclear centrosome," behoving that it arose by division of the intranuclear centrosome contained in the principal nucleus {N.). Hartmann and Prowazek (63), on the basis of their nuclear theory of the centrosome (see Chapter VI., p. 95), regarded n. as a body both of nuclear and centrosomie nature, using for it the term " blepharoplast " ; so also Rosenbusch. Finally, Doflein (7), who is not convinced of its truly nuclear nature, continues to employ for n. the term " blepharoplast." With these many conflicting views with regard to the nature of n., the basal granule has been either ignored or overlooked, or considered as a mere " end-bead " of no particular importance, or ranked as a centriole, as it doubtless is. The nomenclature used here is based on the general theory that a centrosome, or its equivalent, a blepharo- plast, is an achromatinic body of nuclear origin, but not equivalent to an entire nucleus, and on the conviction that n. is a true nucleus, and therefore is not to be regarded either as a centrosome or a blepharoplast. For a fuller dis- cussion of these points, see Robertson and Minchin (80). The trophonucleus of a trypanosome is typically a vesicular nucleus con- taining a karyosome in which is lodged a centriole. The karyosome varies in size in different species, and is sometimes double or multiple ; in T. granu- losum the smallest forms have a single karyosome which buds off others as the animal increases in size (Minchin, 478). By the method which is most in vogue, however, for making permanent preparations of trypaiiosomes— namely, the various modiflcations of the Romanowsky-stain—this structure is seldom to be made out, and the trophonucleus appears generally as an evenly-stained mass or as a dense clump of stained granules. It contains a centriole, difficult to make out in the restuig condition, owing to its being embedded in the substance of the nucleus. The kinetonucleus consists mainly of a mass of plastin impregnated with chromatin, staining very deeply, rounded, oval, or even rod-like in shape. According to Rosenbusch, the chromatinic mass of the kinetonucleus is to bo regarded as representing