73 THE NUCLEUS the interstices of the linin-framework ; (3) pZasim, a substance which has staining reactions different to those of chromatin, and which occurs in lumps or masses forming the ground-substance of the nucleoli or karyosomes presently to be described. The Avhole nucleus is commonly enclosed in a memhrcine, but this structure is probably formed in different ways in different cases, and may be absent. In addition to these various constituents, there are commonly present also in con- nection with nuclei bodies of kinetic nature. Such are the centrosomes or centrioles, which appear to control, or at least to act as centres for, the move- ments which the various parts of the nucleus perform during the process of reproduction by division. The structure and appear- ance of nuclei depend chiefly on the manner in which the chromatin is distributed. Two principal types of structure may be distinguished : in the first the chromatin is concentrated into a single mass or grain, or, if other grains are present in the nucleus, they are smaller and relatively insignificant in size ; in the second a number of grains are present which are more or less equal in size. In the condition with a single, or one greatly preponderating, mass of chromatin, the nuclear space is not as a rule filled by it, but presents the appear- FiG. 34.—Cyclical vegetative changes in the resting nuclei of Tridiosflicerium sieboldi. A, Stage with finely-meshed chromatic network and large karyosome (see p. 76); B, the meshes of the network widening, the karyosome budding off blocks of chromatin into it; G, the same process carried farther ; D, coarse network con- taining scanty chromatin at the nodes, karyosome wanting ; E to G, the chro- matin increases greatly in quantity, covering the linin-framework—in G the meshes of the network are becoming finer ; H, the network has become fine- meshed again ; /, a karyosome is being formed by condensation of the chro- matin at certain points, leading to the condition of A again. After Schaudinn, X 2,250. ance of a vesicle containing the chromatin-mass at or near its centre ; consequently such nuclei are commonly termed " vesicular " in type, and the chromatinic mass may be termed generally, and without further determination of its precise nature, an endosome {" Binnenkorper "). When, on the other hand, the chromatin is in the form of numerous grains, they are generally distributed more or less evenly throughout the nuclear cavity ; such nuclei are termed " granular."