255 THE S ARC ODIN A sinks to a considerable depth. The swarm-spores are Hberated by the breaking-up of the central capsule. The subsequent develop- ment of the swarm-spores when set free has not been made out. While the main features of the reproductive process are as stated above, the cytological details of the formation of the swarm-spores is still a matter of dispute The subject is dealt with in the recent memoirs of Moroff on the one part, and Hartmann and Hammer, Hartmann (60), and Huth, on the other The formation of the anisospores is generally regarded as a breaking- up of the primary nucleus into chromidia, from a part of which the secondary nuclei arise, which become those of the swarm-spores (compare Forammifcra). But according to Hartmann and his adherents, the huge primary nuclei seen in many Radiolaria are polyenergid nuclei or polykarya (p. 121) containing a vast number of nuclear energids or monokarya, consisting each of chromatin, in the form of a twisted thread or so-called " chromosome," and a centriole. In the gamete-formation a great number of such monokarya are set free from the primary nucleus to become the gamete-nuclei; hence the so-called " generative chromidia " set free from the nucleus are interpreted as secondary nuclei or monokarya already formed within the primary nucleus. A similar interpretation is given to the mitosis seen in the process of binary fission ; the huge mitotic figure, composed of more than a thousand chromosomes, is interpreted as bemg in reahty made up of as many mitotic figures as there are chromosomes, since each so-caUed " chromosome " is regarded as a single Fig. 108.—Swarm-spores of Collozoum inerme. A, Crystal-bearing swarm-spores, agametcs ; B, G, swarm-spores without crystals, gametes ; B, microspores (microgametes); G, macrospores (macrogametes). After Hertwig. nuclear energid or monokaryon with its own centriole, the whole number of energids dividing independently but synchronously to form the supposed mitotic figure. According to Moroff and Stiasny, in Acanthometra pellucida a process of multiphcation is proceeding continually within the central capsule, until it is entirely filled up with cells, from which the swarm-spores arise. In this multiplication, termed by the authors " schizogony," trophic nuclei (" macro- nuclei ") and generative nuclei (" micro nuclei ") are formed. The trophic nuclei are the " yellow cells," which ultimately degenerate. Hence the Acan- tharia are considered not to be single individuals, but colonies of animals which have the extracapsular protoplasm, pseudopodia and skeleton in common. Finally, attention must be drawn to the peculiar organisms found in certain Radiolaria, and regarded by some authorities as parasitic FlageUata (Silico- flagellata, Borgert), by others as developmental stages, of the Radiolaria themselves. See Delage and Herouard (6, p. 371). The Radiolaria are classified as follows : Suborder I.: Peripylaria setj Spumellaria.—Central capsule spherical, perforated by evenly-distributed pores. Extracapsular region well developed. Skeleton wanting or consisting of scattered spicules or of lattice-work shells, developed in the cxtracajDsular region, siliceous. Legion 1: CoUodaria.—Skeleton wantmg or simple in structure ; monozoic forms. Five families. Examples : Thalassicolla (Fig. 13), Tlmlassophysa. Legion 2: /Sp/icere^Zarm.—Skeleton complex, usually with lattice-work shell; monozoic, generally small. Four families.