431 THE INFUSORIA I pendently during the asexual cycle, Avith the cell as its environment. In contrast to the extreme elaboration in the structure of the indi- vidual, the life-cycle as a whole is generally of a simple type, and the majority of the free- living species are practically monomorphic ; but some of the parasitic forms show a succession of form-changes in their life-cycle. Habits, Mode of Life—The majority of Ciliata are free-Living aquatic forms, marme or fresh-water, probably without exception holozoic in the mode of nutrition ; but a great number of parasitic forms are known. A cihate, whatever its mode of life, may be free or sedentary. The free forms may be of swimmmg or creeping habit, using their cilia in the one case to move freely through the water or to glide along firm surfaces, m the other to creep over solid objects or on the surface film of the water. The sedentary forms may be attached temporarily or more or less permanently to some object, which is often the body of some larger animal. Para- sitic forms may be, as in other cases, epizoic or entozoic; but the word " parasitic " must be taken in a wide sense, since many Ciliata living in or upon other organisms are not parasitic in the strict sense of the word, though many truly parasitic forms occur. Body-Form.—Correlated with the diversity in the habit of life, the body-form and WX^^^^W'O external structure show many variations. The primitive type of cihate may be con- sidered to be an ovoid, gooseberry-shaped organism Avith a principal axis parallel to the direction of movement, consequently with an i Fig. 180.—Spirosiomum amhiguum, one of the largest free-living Ciliata, reaching a length of 3 millimetres, consequently a favourable object for physiological expermients. N, Macronucleus, greatly elongated, in shape like a string of beads or sausages (so-called monibform " type); o, mouth at the hinder end of the elongated peristome ; c.v., contractile vacuole supplied by a very long feeding-canal (/.c.) j the micronucleus is not shown. After Stein. -e.7/. anterior and a posterior pole (Fig. 14, p. 32). The mouth is termmal at the anterior pole. The cilia clothe the whole body evenly, being