THE PROTOZOA cross.* T parva is the parasite of " East Coast fever " of cattle in Ainca^ Other species have been described from the fallow-deer and irom Cephalolophus grimmi. (3) Nicollia, Nuttall.-Oval or pear-shaped parasites with peculiar nuclear structure (see below), and with quadruple division, pro- ducing a figure at first like a fan, then like a four-leaved clover. Une species, N. quadrigemina, from the gondi, Otenodactylus (JSlicolle, 746). (4) NuttaUia, Franga.—Parasites oval or pear-shaped (not rod- shaped) ; multiplication-forms Hke a cross. N. equi, of equine piroplasmosis ;N. herpestidis, of a mongoose {Herpestes icJmeumon). (5) Smiiliia, Fran§a.—Pear-shaped forms, occupyhig the whole diameter of the corpuscle, not in pairs ; quadruple multiplication m the figure of a cross. ;S'. microti from Microtus arvalis. Future research will, no doubt, determine the value of these generic distinctions, some of which seem to rest upon a somewhat slender foundation. _ As is evident from the foregouig classification, the form of the para- site varies considerably ui different species, and even in the same species. In many cases the body may show amoeboid changes of shape, and may throw out long pseudopodial processes. The two principal types of form of the full-grown parasite are the pear- shaped and the bacillary forms ; but the smaller parasites may be rmg-like, with the nucleus excentric, and placed near the margin of the body in some cases. The relation of these forms to one another, and their significance in the life-cycle, are not clear, but the annular forms appear to be young stages of either the pear-shaped or bacillary forms. Kinoshita claims to be able to distinguish indifferent (schieonts) from sexually-differentiated forms (sporonts) (compare Theileria, p. 382, infra). The minute structure of the body is very simple, since the cyto- plasm has as a rule no enclosures except the nucleus, which is single. In some cases, however, the cytoplasm may be vacuolated to some extent, and in the ring-like forms has a large central vacuole. The nucleus itself appears to be of a simple type of * A confusion has arisen between two parasites very similar as regards the appearances they present in the blood, but differing in evei-y other respect—namely, Theileria parva, the true parasite of " East Coast fever " of cattle, and Babesia {Piroplasma) nmtans, also found in cattle. In both parasites alike the charac- teristic cross-forms appear in the blood. In Theileria parva, however, the cross- forms are an aggregation of four distinct gametocytes (see p. 382, infra) which have invaded the same corpuscles, while in Babesia miitans the cross-forms are produced by quadruj)le fission of an ordinary multiplicative individual; this difference has the consequence that, since the gametocytes of T. parva are not capable of further development in the blood of the ox, direct inocidation of blood from an infected to a healthy ox docs not produce an infection in the latter, as happens always when a healthy ox is inoculated with blood containing Babesia mutans. The diagnosis of the genus Theileria given by Franca would appear to apply to B. mutans rather than to T. parva. Sec especially Gonder (739).