92 THE PROTOZOA the axial filaments of the pseuclopodia are centred, while the nucleus IS displaced to one side and becomes excentric in position ; when the cell enters upon division, the central grain becomes the centro- some (Fig. 64). From the condition seen in Acanthocystis, it is not difficult to explain the state of things which has boon described by Zuelzer (86) in the remarkable form Wagnerdla (p. 246). Here also the buds formed possess each a single nucleus containing a centriole ; in this condition they may multiply by fission with mitosis, in which the centriole functions as a controsome. " When the buds develop into the adult form, a centriole is extruded from the nucleus to form the central grain. The organism attaches itself, and the body becomes divided into three regions—head, stalk, and basal plate (Fig. 48) The nucleus travels down into the basal plate, while the central grain remams in the head and functions as the kinetic centre of the pseudopodia, becoming very complicated in sLructure. It consists of a centrosome surrounded by a sphere, which is perhaps of the nature of archoplasm, but is stated to bo rich m plastin ; when the pseudopodia are extended the sphere shows well- rnarked radial striations. From the centrosome minute granules are budded off, which pass along the striations of the sphere to its surface, and from these granules arise the delicate axial filaments of the pseudopodia; the basal granules are therefore comparable to the ring of blepharoplasts m Lopliomonas. When the pseudopodia are retracted, the basal granules lie within the sphere, immediately surrounding the centrosome, and the radial striations of the sphere vanish. The centrosome itself varies in structure at different times, going through cycUcal changes, but usually shows a distinct central granule or centriole. When Wagnerdla divides by fission, the central grain and the nucleus divide independently, and the central grain does not act as a centrosome for the dividing nucleus, which contains its own centriole. In this form, therefore, the central grain, though centrosomic in origin and nature, loses its primitive relation to the division of the nucleus, and becomes speciahzcd exclusively as a kinetic centre for the organs of locomotion, a course of evolu- tion perfectly parallel to that which has been traced above for the blepharo- plasts in their relation to flagella. Wliile there can be but little doubt as to the centrosomic nature of the blepharoplasts or basal granules of the flagella, and of the central grains on which the pseudopodia of the Heliozoa are centred, the true nature of the basal grains of cilia, on the other hand, is less certain. The majority of those who have studied them in Ciliata are of opinion that they have nothing to do with centro- somes (compare Maier, 73, and Scliuberg, 44, and see p. 443, infra) ; but there are certain observations which indicate that the basal granules of the cilia have a connection with (Collin, 50), or an origin from (Entz, 53), the nuclear apparatus, in which case they may be of the same nature as the multiple blepharoplasts of such a form as Lophomonas. Hertwig (66) considers that the basal grains of the cilia may be of centrosomic nature, and that, if they have no connection with the nucleus, they afford support for the view that centrosomes can arise from the cytoplasm as well as from the nuclear framework. In view of the great structural similarity between cilia and flagella in other respects, it seems