THE INFUSORIA 449 oilia and swim off. Each microconjugant attaches itself to a macroconjugant —that is to say, to an ordinary sedentary individual ; each of the conjugants has a single microniicleus and macronucleus, but as soon as they become associated"the changes preparatory to syngaray begin. In the microconjugant the micronucleus divides tlireo times to produce eight mieronuclei. In Carchesium the first of these divisions is an equating division ; the second reduces the number of chromosomes from sixteen to eight; and the third division is again an equatmg division (Popoff, 125). Meanwhile the macro- nucleus is in process of degeneration, and is breakmg up into fragments. Of the eight mieronuclei, seven degenerate, one persists and divides into two pronuclei. In the macroconjugant, meanwhile, similar events are taking place, but the micronucleus only divides twice, first by a reducing, then by an equating division, to produce four mieronuclei, of which three degenerate, while the fourth persists and divides into the two pronuclei. Of the two pronuclei now present in each eonjugant, one degenerates in each case; the persistent pronucleus of the microconjugant-passes over into the macroconjugant and copulates with its persistent pronucleus. The frag- ments of the macronucleus also pass over into the macroconjugant, but are there absorbed slowly. The body of the microconjugant then falls off and dies; only the macroconjugant is fertihzed. Variations of minor importance are seen in the behaviour of the synkaryon of the exconjugant after fusion of the pronuclei has taken place. For example, in Paramecium hursaria the synkaryon divides to form four nuclei, two of which become macronuclei, whereupon the exconjugant divides into two ordinary individuals (Hamburger, 842); in Licnophora the synkaryon divides into eight, which become a micronucleus and a macronuclear chain of seven segments (Stevens, 872); in Carchesium the synkaryon divides also into eight to furnish a micronucleus and seven separate macronuclei, but the micro- nucleus then divides six times, with subsequent divisions of the body and sorting out of the macronuclei, imtil seven individuals, each with a single micronucleus and macronucleus, are produced (Popoff, 125); in A7ioplophrya the synkaryon divides into four nuclei, two of which degenerate, the remaining two becoming a micronucleus and a macronucleus respectively. The method of nuclear reconstruction may vary even in the same species, as shown by Prandtl (126) in the case of Didinium. The most important deviations from the usual scheme of conjugation are seen in those forms in which there is no separate micronucleus in the ordinary condition. The cases of Opalina and IcUhyopUhirius, parasitic forms and therefore open to the charge of degeneration, are dealt with below. In Trachdocerca pJioenicopterus, a free-living species, conjugation has been described by Lebedew (93) between individuals containing many nuclei all similar m appearance, each with a large karyosome. Prior to conjugation the chromatin passes out of the karyosome into the nuclear cavity of each nucleus (Fig. 188, A, B), which then divides into four. The chromatin forms a compact mass at one pole of each nucleus. During conjugation these masses ^ P^^^ ^^'^ nuclei, and lie free in the ejrtoplasm between them (Fig. 188, G~0) ; each such mass is now to be regarded as a micro- nucleus and lies in a clear area, finally becoming a vesicular nucleus with a distmct alveolar structure; the old nuclei can now be considered as macro- nuclei. All the nuclei now collect in a mass near the middle of the body Ihe macronuclei ultimately degenerate; the mieronuclei multiply by fission but ultimately, accordmg to Lebedew, they aU degenerate with the exception ot one in each eonjugant; the persistent micronucleus divides into two pro- nuclei which conjugate in the usual way; unfortunately, the author's observa- tions contain so many gaps that this statement cannot be considered estab- lished so decisively as could be desired. The exconjugants contain each a single synkaryon which divides by successive divisions into a number of nuclei not differentiated into mieronuclei and macronuclei. tnnnlrT oi Trachdocerca, as it is described, furnishes an important clue to understandmg the ongm of the heterokaryote condition of Infusoria from 29