THE PROTOZOA 348 Ihe maturation of the female gamete does not necessarily take the form of expulsion of tho karyosome; on the contrary, the karyosome may bo retained tnrougliout the development. In the macrogameto of Gydosfora caryolytica tne nucleus divides twice to form two reduction-nuclei, which are cast off, and a third nucleus which persists as the pronucleus. A similar reduction- process has been described by Chagas in Addea hartmanni. In Addea ovata, according to JoUos, a reducing division occurs in the female gametocyto before association with the male takes place ; this is denied, however, by Schellack and Reichenow and by Dobaisieux. In Caryotropha tho male sporont does not divide at once into microgametes, but first into a number of microgametocytes, each of which then produces microgametes. The process of gamete-formation is thus seen to be exactly parallel to the schizogony, in which the schizont first divides into cytomeres, which in their turn produce merozoites. It is obvious that in coccidia, as in Protozoa generally, schizogony and gamotogenesis are strictly homologous processes; the only difference, primarily, is in the nature and destiny of the swarm-spores produced in each case, merozoites or gametes. This comparison accentuates the fact, which will be discussed further below, that in the coccidia multiple reproduction to produce gametes is entirely in abeyance in the female sex. 7. The fully-formed microgamete (Fig. 50, p. 102) is a minute, slender, serpentine organism, the body of which consists almost entirely of chromatin ; the cytoplasm is represented by the two flagella, which arise close together at one end of the body. One flagellum is entirely free, the other runs along the body to the hinder end, from which it is continued freely ; thus the structure of the male gamete recalls that of a trypanoplasm in the heteromastigote arrangement of the flagella. The male gametes swarm round the inert female gamete, and one of them penetrates into it and fertilizes it. As soon as the entrance of a microgamete is effected, the macrogamete secretes a tough membrane, the oocyst, at the surface of the body, preventuag the penetration of any other microgametes. A fertilization-spindle (Fig. 69, p. 127 ; Fig. 152, J, K) is then formed in the zygote. The female pronucleus becomes spread out into a fusiform figure con- sisting of grains of chromatm on an achromatinic framework. When the spindle is complete, the male pronucleus breaks up into granules of chromatin which spread over the spindle, and are thus com- mingled intimately with the chromatin of the female pronucleus. When this has taken place, the spindle contracts to form the roimded synkaryon, and the syngamy is complete. The structure of the microgamete varies in different species. In some cases {Addea, Klossia, Legerella, Barroussia spiralis) flageUa are wanting, and tho microgamete is a slender, spirochcete-like organism, consisting entirely, so far as can be seen, of chromatm, but actively motile. When flagella are present, they are usually two in number. In Orcheobius herpobdella;, Bar- roussia [MincUnia) caudata, and some other species, the microgamete ter- minates anteriorly in a point or rostrum, close behind which two flagella are given off, and are directed obliquely backwards, quite free from the body. In Aggregata, Moroff (94) describes the microgametes as long and slender, with a nucleus of peculiar form, sometimes greatly drawn out, and with