136 THE PROTOZOA is the banana-tree. In the wild-banana, seeds are produced from flowers of a normal type by fertilization, just as in any other flower- ing plant; in the cultivated banana, however, the floAvers are sterile and incapable of fertilization, consequently the tree bears fruit which are entirelj^^ seedless. Hence the cultivated banana- tree is propagated entirely by a non-sexual method—namelj^ by the production of suckers growing up from the roots, and in no other way. Whether this complete abolition of sexuality will in time lead to exhaustion of the cultivated race of banana remains to be seen, but at present there seem to be no signs of loss of vigour under cultivation. If sjrngamy can be entirely dispensed with m an organism rela- tively so high in the scale of life as a flowermg plant, it seems probable in the highest degree that the same may be true m many cases for unicellular organisms of simple structure, and especially for those parasitic forms which live, like cultivated plants, in a medium rich in nutritive substances, and in an environment which is changed at least once in each developmental cycle. Instances of this are perhaps furnished by the various species of pathogenic trypanosomes, strains of which have been brought to Euro]De and propagated for many years from one infected animal to another by artificial uaoculation, without the natural agency of an inverte- brate host. If it be true, as is generally believed, that in trj'-pano- somes syngamy takes place in the invertebrate host, then in the long-continued artificial propagation of pathogenic trjrpanosomes sexuality has been in abeyance for a vast number of generations without any apparent loss of vital powers. The case of the patho- genic trypanosomes cannot, however, be cited, in the present state of our knowledge, as an absolutely conclusive examj)le of syngamy in abeyance, since it is by no means certain that this process does not take place in the vertebrate host, where its occurrence has frequently been affirmed (see p. 305, infra). But it is certain that in trypanosomes generally, whether pathogenic or non-pathogenic, syngamy is a rare phenomenon, since it has not yet been demonstrated satisfactorily in a single instance, either in the vertebrate or the invertebrate host, in all the many species that have been studied. It is possible that, in these and many other forms of life, sexual processes may intervene only at long intervals in the life-history, and by no means in every complete cycle of development or alternation of hosts. It then becomes necessary to distmguish a developmental cycle, consisting of a recurrent series of similar form-changes in regular succession, from a complete life-cycle marked by the occurrence of an act of syngamy. In such forms as the parasites of malaria, for example (p. 358), the life-cycle and the developmental cycle coincide—that is to say,