THE H.EMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 307 or trypanomonad typo of flagellate. Until the cultural development of a trypanosomo has been compared in detail with its natural development in the invertebrate host, it is impossible to estimate precisely the bearing of tl:e cultural series of stages from the jDoint of view of the physiology and mor- phology of the parasite. The only investigator who has attempted this is Chagas (425), who found in cultures of Schizoirypanum cruzi the same three principal phases—namely, rounded, crithidial, and trypaniform—that occur in the natural cycle, and in the same order of sequence. At present, therefore, it would be miprofitablo to discuss in detail the series of forms occurring in artificial cultures, and it must suffice to refer the reader for further infor- mation to the principal works on the subject, namely, those of Novy and McNeal (489), Bouet, Franga (438, 443), Eosenbusch, Thomson (525), Wood- cock (527), Lebedew, and Doflein (431). As already pointed out above, the cultural method is often of the greatest practical value in determining whether, in a given case, an am"mal is infected with trypanosomes or not. Lebedew has described what he beheves to be syngamy in the cultural phases of T. rotatorium; compare also the account of Leishmania below (p. 319). The genus Trypanosoma comprises a vast number of species, parasitic in the blood of animals throughout the vertebrate series ; and several attempts have been made to subdivide and classify Fig. m.—Endotrypanum schaudinni from the blood of Choloevus didaciylus. f hr"^ °* intracorpuscular parasite; F, tiypanosome 1 500 dfamet'Ss" ^^""^ ^^^""^^ Brimont, magnified about this comprehensive genus into smaller groups. Such attempts have either taken the course of splitting off particular forms, char- acterized by some special peculiarity, from the main group, or of subdividing the group as a whole on some principle of morphology or development. An example of the first method is the foundation by Chagas (425) of the genus ScMzotrypanum, as already mentioned for T. cruzi, on the ground that it multiplies by schizogony and possesses intracorpuscular phases. The genus Endotrypanum was proposed by Mesnil and Brimont for a peculiar form which was discovered by them within the red blood-corpuscles of a sloth {Chol^Bpus chdaclylus), and which is very probably an intracorpus- cular phase of a trypanosome found free in the blood-plasma of the same host. The life-cycle of Endotrypanum is not yet known Chagas considers it not improbable that it should be placed in the