THE GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY OF THE PROTOZOA 199 spicules and various skeletal structures ; the shells, houses, etc. ; adhesive substances or stalks in sedentary forms, as, for examj)le, the non-contractile stalks of many Vorticellids (p. 441) ; and the cysts or envelopes secreted round the body, such as the sporocysts, etc. The pseudopodia of many Amoebsea, such as Difjlugia, are covered by a sticky shme which enables the animal to adhere to suiiaces over which it creeps, and which can be drawn out by contact with a glass rod into threads, like the mucus of a snail (Rhumbler, 34). In Foraminifera and Hehozoa the pseudopodia appear to secrete a substance which holds the prey fast, and at the same time kills it, as already mentioned. Some Protozoa—^for example, gregarines—Cleave a trail of mucilaginous substance behind them as they move forwards, and by some authors this secretion has been regarded as the mechanism by which locomotion is effected (p. 327). Internal secretions in connection with the digestive function have been mentioned in a previous section. Arcella has the power of secreting gas-bubbles in its protoplasm for hydrostatic purposes (compare also the Radiolaria, p. 252). 4. Transformation ot Energy—(a) Movement.—The different motile organs of Protozoa have been described above. Considered from a morphological standpoint, the protoplasmic body may exhibit, in the first place, no specially differentiated organs of movement, which then takes the form of currents and displacements in the fluid protoplasm itself, manifested externally in the form of pseudopodial processes or flowing movements of the entire body, internally as streaming movements m the protoplasm. Secondly, there may be special organs of movement, either external, in the form of vibratile organs, such as ciMa, flageUa, or undulating membranes; or internal, in the form of contractile flbrils or myonemes. Different as pseudopodia may appear at first sight from vibratile organs, such as ciha or flageUa, there is nevertheless a very gradual transition from the one type to the other (see p. 53, supra). Of pseudopodia there are two chief types of structure—the lohopodia, m which a fluid core of endoplasm is enveloped by a superficial layer of stiffer ectoplasm ; and the axopodia, in which, on the contrary a secreted axis of rigid or elastic nature is covered by a more fluid layer of protoplasm. The axopodia are connected by transitions both of structure and movement with organs of the vibratile type In both flageUa and cilia the structure consists of a firmer elastic axis covered over by a more fluid superficial layer (pp. 52, 54) • many axopodia exhibit swinging, nutatmg, or bending movements differ- mg only m degree from those of flageUa (p. 51). There are grounds for beheymg the one type of organ to have been derived phylo- genetically from the other. The streaming movements of protoplasm, have been the subject