THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 53 CM movements,* which drag the body along in a succession of more or ^^n'm^y Slated organisms, forwardly-direeted flagella may be combined with so-called "trailing fiagella" ['PP'f «f which are directed backwards, running along the side of the body, either quite free (Fig. 25) or united to the body by an undulating membrane (Fig. 5). In such cases the trailing flagellum is perhaps the chief organ of propulsion, acting as a iralsellum, while the forwardly-directed flagellum or flagella may function more as tactile organs or feelers than as locomotor organs. The flagellum may also serve as an organ of temporary attachment in some cases, especially in parasitic flagellates ; it then often exhibits at its distal extremity a distmct bead-like swelling or enlargement, doubtless of adhesive nature. Such terminal enlargements are sometimes seen, however, in free-swimming forms. There are many grounds for assuming the existence of a gradual transition from fiagella to pseudopodia, and especially to the slender axopodia seen in Heliozoa, etc. In organs of each kind the type of structure is essentially similar, an axis of firm elastic nature, which is pushed out from the endoplasm, in many cases from a basal granule of centrosomic nature (p. 82), and is covered over by a sheath of contractile fluid ectoplasm. The difference between them is one of degree, the axopodia being relatively shorter in proportion to their thickness, and consequently less flexible, but the nutating and bending movements seen in axopodia are essentially similar in type to those manifested by flagella. The Heliozoa are con- nected with the Flagellata by transitional forms which indicate that their pseudopodia have arisen as modifications of flagella (p. 248). Goldschmidt, who discusses the whole question (41, pp. 116-122), de- scribes in a Cercomonas-\\kQ flagellate the shorten- ing of the flagellum, and its transformation into a pseudopodium which swings to and fro. A flagellum may be considered as having arisen by modification and specialization of an axopodium, and as capable in many instances of reverting to that type of organ. (Compare also p. 465, infra.) (3) Cilia are slender, thread-like extensions of the ectoplasm which differ from flagella mainly in three points : they are as a rule much shorter relatively to the size of the body; they are present usually in much greater numbers, and in their most primitive tj^pe Fig. 25.—Anisonema grande, ventral view, showing the " hetero- mastigote " arrange- ment of the flagella. a.f., Anterior flagel- lum ; p.f., posterior trailing flagellum ; S, oesophagus; c.v., contractile vacuole surrounded by a number of feeding vacuoles ; N., nucleus ; an., anus (cytoj)yge). After Stein. * For a detailed description and analysis of these movements, sec Delage and Herouard (6), pp. 305-312.