139- SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA In Entamoeba coli (Fig. 73) the process starts in like manner from a uninucleate individual, the nucleus of which divides into two, but the cell divides incompletely and only temporarily. Each nucleus then breaks up completely into chromidia and disappears from view. Some of the chromidia are absorbed, while from others a secondary nucleus is formed on each side of the cell, so that two nuclei reappear again in the cyst, but smaller than before and stainmg feebly. Each secondary nucleus now divides twice to form three nuclei on each side, two of which degenerate as re- duction-nuclei, while the third in each case persists as a gamete- nucleus. As soon as the process of reduction is complete, the incomplete separation of the two cells disappears, so that the two gamete-nuclei lie in a single cell, which at this stage forms a tough cyst. Now each gamete-nucleus divides into two pronuclei, those of the same j)air being slightly different from those of the other, according to Schaudinn (133). Then a pronucleus of each pair fuses with a pronucleus of the other pair, so that two synkarya result. At a later stage each synkaryon divides twice, and eight amoebul£e are formed by division of the cell within the cyst. From these two examples, it is seen that autogamy is a process of extreme inbreeding as regards the gametes. In typical cases of syngamy the two gametes must be derived from two distinct strains, and those of the same strain will not conjugate ; Schaudinn (131), for example, observed that the gametes of Polystomella crispa would only copulate when a couple came together in which each gamete was of distmct parentage. In a great number of Protozoa the differentiation of the gametes and their mode of formation makes it certain that the couple which join in syngamy are derived from different parents. On the other hand, in many cases of autogamy that have been described, it is equally certain that the conjugating gametes and pronuclei have a common parentage, and it is hardly possible to consider autogamy otherwise than as a degeneration of the sexual process, evolved in forms in which one feature of true syngamy—namely, the mixture of distinct strains—is, for some reason, no longer a necessity ; we shall return to this point when discussing the nature and origin of the syngamic process. It is possible, moreover, to recognize progressive stages of the degeneration, as shown by the two examples selected. In the less advanced stage {AcUnosphoerium) the parent cell divides mto two complete cells, each of which, after a process of matura- tion, becomes a gamete. In the more advanced stage {Entamoeba coll), the division of the parent-cell is checked, and only its nucleus divides, each daughter-nucleus becoming apronucleus after reduction. Tho occurrence of autogamy lias been asserted in a number of cases which arc, to say tho least, extremely doubtful, as, for example, the Myxosporidia