373 THE H^EMOSPORIDIA corpuscle, instead of a rod, does not of itself supply adequate grounds for a generic, or even for a specific, distinction, since in some species-for example, H. aoamcB-the parasites may occur either in white or red corpuscles (Laveran and Pottit). For the present, therefore, these leucocytozoa, so called, may remain in the genus Hcemogregarina, mitil greater knowledge of the life-histories of hajmogregarines makes possible a natural classification of these organisms. A hiemogregarine of leucocytic habitat has been described also from a frog by Carini {Bev. Soc. Sci., Sao Paulo, 1907, p. 121). As a type of the life-cycle of the hjBmogregarines may be taken H. stepanowi (Fig. 159), which has been studied by Reichenow (78). The chief points in this author's account of the life-history are con- firmed in essential details, but with specific variations, by thab given by Robertson (725) for the life-cycle of H. nicorice* In both cases the developmental cycle in the tortoise comprises two forms of schizogony, the one producing schizonts, the other sporonts ; and the invertebrate host is a leech. (1) The sporozoite penetrates into a blood-corpuscle, and grows into a long vermicule, which is at first doubled on itself (Fig. 159, F). The two limbs of the U-shaped body withm the corpuscle fuse together to produce a bean-shaped parasite—the macroscMzont. (2) The macroschizont of H. stepanowi, remaining within the blood-corpuscle, goes through its schizogony in the bone-marrow of the tortoise, producing some thirteen to twenty-four macromero- zoites (Fig, 159, B, G). The number produced is larger in the earlier stages of the infection than in older infections (Fig. 159, D—H). In H. nicorice, however, the macroschizont is set free m a capiUary of the lung, and there produces about seventy macromerozoites. In the account of the schizogony given by Reichenow, the significance of the recurved vermicules is not clear. In drawn blood they can be observed to be set free from the blood-corpuscles, and then, as free vermicules, to exhibit active powers of movement, which indicate the existence of some sort of locomotor apparatus, probably of myonemes. According to Reichenow, however, liberation from the corpuscle never occurs normally within the body of the tortoise, but the recurved vermicule remains within the blood- corpuscle in which it has grown up, and its two limbs fuse to form the body of the bean-shaped macroschizont. If that is so, it is difficult to understand why the motile vermicule is ever developed. One is inclined to suspect that it becomes free from the corpuscle in which it has developed, and as a " schizo- kinete " (Minchin and Woodcock, 483) finds it way as a motile vermicule to the bone-marrow (or lung in H. nicorice), where it penetrates another corpuscle (or remains free in a capillary vessel, H. nicorice) and becomes the macroschizont. (3) The macromerozoites produced penetrate into blood-cor- puscles, and may (a) repeat the development already described, and become macroschizonts again ; or they may (6) develop into micro- schizonts, which produce micromerozoites in small numbers, f *+J^^rt^"'^'^ °^ Vae.SQ> authors confirms in any way the peculiar account ot the life-hi3tory of //. stepanowi given by Hahn, whose work is criticized by xteichonow.