335 THE GREGARINES AND COCCIDIA unmodified ; in other cases both maJe and female remain in the undifferentiated condition of the gametid. For an account of the gametes of gregarines, see above (Fig. 79, p. 174). Keduction has been described in several cases in the formation of the gametids. In the genus Gregarina the nucleus of the gametid divides twice to form two reduction-nuclei (Leger and Duboscq, 621); Paehler and Schnitzler have also described a reduction-division iii the gametids of Gre- garina ovata. In Monocystis rostrata, on the other hand, the reduction takes place, according to Mulsow (123), in the last nuclear division in the sporont- body, prior to the budding oS of the gametids. In this case the ordinary number of clu-omosomes is eight, as seen in aU the divisions of the nuclei; in the final division the eight chromosomes associate to form four pairs, those of each pair being in close contact, but not fused; in the mitosis that follows one chromosome of each pair goes to each pole of the spindle, thus reducing the number of chromosomes in each gametid-nucleus from eight to foiir. 6. When the gametes are ripe, they copulate in pairs, and probably in every case the gametes of each pair are of distinct parentage. This is certainly the case when the gametes show any trace of sexual differentiation, since those of one sex can be seen to arise from one sporont, and of the other sex from the other. In many cases the two sporonts are separated from one another by a partition dividmg the cyst into two chambers, in one of which the male gametes are formed, in the other the female ; when the gametes are ripe, the partition breaks down and pairing of the sexes takes place. 7. The zygote becomes oval or spindle-shaped, and a membrane is secreted at its surface to form the sporocyst, which becomes an exceedingly tough and impervious envelope, and is generally composed of two layers—epispore and endospore. Within the sporo- cyst the nucleus (synkaryon) divides usually three times to form eight nuclei, and then the protoplasm of the sporoblast divides up into as many slender, sickle-shaped sporozoites, leaving over a small quantity of residual protoplasm. The sporozoites are usually arranged longitudinally in the spore, with the residual protoplasm at the centre. The number of sporozoites in the spore is almost invariably eight; exceptions to this rule are only known amongst the schizogregarmes. The spores of gregarines differ enoi-mously in different species in form and appearance, and often have the sporocyst prolonged into tails, spines, or processes of various kmds. Various mechanisms may be developed for liberating the spores from the cyst; for instance, in the genus Gregarina [Glepsydrina) the cyst is provided with sporoducts, and the residual protoplasm derived from the sporonts swells up when the spores are ripe, and forces them out through the sporoducts in long strings. 8. The ripe spore with its contained sporozoites passes out of