326 THE PROTOZOA are, however, in more common use than the other names of the subclasses given above.* The subclass Telosporiclia, as mentioned above, includes the three orders Gregarinoidea, Coccidiidea, and Hsemosporidia. Order I.—Gregarinoidea. The chief characteristics of this order are—^First, that the tropho- zoites are parasites of epithelial cells in the earlier stages of their growth, but in later stages they become entirely free from the cells, and lie in cavities of the body ; their most frequent habitat is the digestive tract, but sometimes they are found in the body-cavity or the hsemoccele. The full-groAvn trophozoite is of relatively large size and definite form, with a thick cuticle as a rule. In addition to these characters, the reproduction and spore-formation, presently to be described, are quite distinctive in type, the most diagnostic feature being that each spore is the product of a single zygote. The Gregarines are an extremely abundant order of the Sporozoa, highly differentiated in structure, and comprising a great number of species classified into genera and famihes. They occur most commonly as parasites of the digestive tract or body-cavity of insects, but also as parasites of other classes, such as Echinoderms and Annelids ; in Molluscs they are comparatively rare, and, though they occur commonly in Prochordata (Ascidians), they are not known from any class of Vertebrata in the strict sense of the word. In the early phases of development, during which the tropho- zoite is a cell-parasite, it may be entirely enclosed in the cell, or only attached to it by one extremity of the more or less elongated body. In the latter case the sporozoite may have the anterior end of the body modified into a definite rostrum, by which it attaches itself to the host-cell, and from which is developed a definite organ of attachment, termed an epimerite (Fig. 142, ep.), often of com- plicated structure, and provided with hooks and other appendages. When the cytozoic phase is past and the host-cell is exhausted, the parasite drops off, shedding its epimerite as a rule. In the earlier phase, in which an epimerite is present, the parasite was termed by Aime Schneider a cephdlont (" cephalin "), and in the later phase a sporont (" sporadin "), the original use of this term, now applied in a wider sense to denote in this and other orders of Sporozoa those individuals about to proceed to spore-formation. The body of the Gregarine-sporont always contains a single nucleus, but may be divided into partitions or septa formed as ingrowths of the ectoplasm, and is then said to be "septate" or " polycystid." * The subclass Rhabdogcnise, as instituted by Delage and Herouard, included the Sarcosporidia, which, however, arc almost certainly true Amcebogenife.