228 THE PROTOZOA that they arise in the cjrtoplasm independently of the nuclei; but their rejection by the animal is more in favour of the view that they are waste- products of the metabolism (Veley). It is not clear what is the role of the bacteria, whether they are parasites or symbionts. Pelomyxa reproduces itself by simple fission or by formation of gametes. The sexual process, according to Bott, begins with extrusion of chromatin from the nuclei into the cytoplasm to form clu-omidia, which may take place so actively that sometimes the nuclei break up altogether. A similar extrusion of chromidia may take place as a purely regulative process under certain conditions, such as starvation; but the vegetative chromidia formed in this way, and absorbed ultimately in the cytoplasm, must be distinguished from generative chromidia produced as a preliminary to gamete- formation. From the genera- tive chromidia secondary nuclei of vesicular structure arise, which, after elimination of chromatin followed by reduc- tion (see p. 150, supra), become the gamete-nuclei. The gametes arise as spherical in- ternal buds, each with a single nucleus, to the number of 100 or more, and are extruded when fully formed, causmg the parent-individual to break up completely. Each free gamete is Heliozoon-like, vnih slender, radiating pseudopodia; they copulate in pairs, and the zygote grows into a young Pdomyxa, either directly or after a resting period in an encysted condition. The genus Paramosba (Fig. 49) was founded by Schaudmn (81) for the species P. eilhardi discovered by him in a marine aquarium in Berlin.* In the adult stage the animal occurs as an amoeba, from 10 to 90 /x in diameter, of rather flattened form and with lobose pseudo- podia. It contains a single nucleus, and near it a peculiar body, the " Nebenkern" of Schaudinn (see p. 95). In binary fission accompanied by It also becomes encysted and Yia, 92.—Portion of a section through the body of Pelomyxa. N., Nucleus ; r.b., refringent bodies; b., bacteria on the refringent bodies; 5., sand and debris in the protoplasm Gould. After this phase the amoeba multiplies by division both of nucleus and Nebenkern, , . , , ^ - • ^ process of multiple fission, which shows three stages ; in the ffoes through a process of multiple Ussion, wnicn snows tmee aui^gco , n. &st the Nebenkern multiplies by repeated division, the nucleus remammg unchanged ; in the second the nucleus divides repeatedly to form as many small nuclei as there are Nebenkerne present, and each nucleus attaches itseU Ta Nebenkern ; in the third the protoplasmic body undergoes radial super- ficial cleavage into a number of cells, each containing a nucleus and a Neben- kern Each of the cells thus formed becomes a swarm-spore with two flageUa. * The amoeba from the human intestine described by Craig *J^. J^^^f Pararnwla hominis certainly does not belong to this genus. See Dofle.n (7). pp. C02, G03.