THE PJaOTOZOA 274 of flagellar insertion, characteristic of this order ; but it is simplest to regard it merely as a secondary complication of the second type, and one which is not universal in this order, since in Coj)romonas suhtilis the blepharoplast remains undivided, so that this species shows a flagellar attachment strictly of the second type. In Eagkna, according to Wager (213), the flageUum passes through the oesophagus and becomes attached to the wall of the reservoir-vacuole by a bifurcate base. On one of the branches is a distinct thickening in close contact with the stigma (p. 205). The thickening is prob- ably the blepharoplast, and the two branches represent the rhizoplast. The sexual processes of the Euglenoidina are but little known, and Cupro- monas is the only genus in which the complete life-cycle has been worked out; in this species it is of a simple type (p. 264, Pig. 111). The order comprises three families. The first, Euglenidce, contams forms provided with chromatophores, holophytic, saprophytic, and parasitic (HasweU) in habit. Examples: Euglena (Fig. 4), Phacus (Fig. 118). The second family, Astasiidce, contams the genus Astasia (Fig. 15), colourless and saprophytic or parasitic. The third family, Per- anemidce, contains numerous genera without chro- matophores, holozoic or saprophytic. Examples: Peranema, Copromonas (Fig. 111). The subfamihes Meteronemince and Anisonemince are heteromastigote. Example : Anisonema (Fig. 25). Order V.: Chromomonadina.—Small forms, with- out oesophagus or vacuole-system, with delicate cuticle and one or two flagella ; their characteristic feature is the possession, usuaUy, of one or two conspicuous chromatophores, green, yellow, or brownish, in colour. The nutrition, for the most part holophytic, may be also holozoic or saprophytic. Divided into two suborders. Suborder 1: Chrysomonadina.—With one or two flagella and one or two yeUowish-brown chroma- tophores ; body often amoeboid or metabolic ; colony- formation frequent; nutrition holozoic and holophytic. Fig. 118. — Phacus Three famihes. ^yL^.m^^les : Chrysamoeha, Chromulina, triqucter. as., CEso- Dinobryon, etc. According to Sclierffel, Chrysamosba phagus; c.v., con- is the amoeboid, non-flageUated phase of Chromulina ; tractile vacuole ; sL, compare also Lauterborn (345"5). To this suborder stigma ;iV^., nucleus, must be referred also the Coccolitlwphoridce, marine After Stein. flageUates which secrete the calcareous sheUs known as coccoliths {vide Lohmann). Suborder 2 : Gryptomonadina.—^md^W forms with one or two flagella, colour- less, or with chromatophores ranguag in colour from yeUowish-brown to olive- green or blue-green. Holophytic or saprophytic, not holozoic. Examples: Chilomonas, colomless ; Gryptanonas, some species of which are symbiotic in Sarcodina (p. 15). Doflein refers the SilicoflageUata to this order (p. 255). Order VI.: Phytomonadina seu Phytoflagellata.—Completely and exclusively holophytic, Avith cellulose envelope and without mouth-aperture. This order comprises the most plant-like flagellates, to aU intents and purposes uniceflidar algaj which retain throughout life their flageUar apparatus and their motihty. The individual is generally small, and the body is, except in one family, of definite form and enveloped in a rigid cellulose envelope which may stand ofl: from the body, and is perforated by pores tlurough which the fla<Tella pass out to the exterior. The flageUa are usually two m number, sometimes four, of equal size. The cytoplasm generaUy contams a large green clii-omatophore and a red stigma. The flageUar nisertion, according to Hartmann and Chagas, is of the second type, as in Protomonadina. llie reproduction may take the form of multiple fission wthm the body-envelope to form numerous swarm-sporcs, which when set free may be gametes or agametes. Colony-formation is frequent in this order (p. 2o7).