THE INFUSORIA 441 this dimorphism has no relation to sex, but only to differences in the sur- rounding medium; he states that by the addition of quinine (1 : 80,000) to a culture of the small forms he was able to bring about the appearance of the large forms. The body of a ciliate is often prolonged into processes, spikes, etc., givmg the animal a curious appearance. The most bizarre forms are found amongst the species entozoic in the digestive tracts of ruminants, such as Ophryoscolex, Entodinium, etc. ; but some free-living species also exhibit peculiarities of external form. Actinobolus radians (Holotricha) has the body covered with tentacle-like processes, each bearing a trichocyst at the extremity. Legendrea loyezce (Faure-Fremiet), allied to Prorodon, bears on the left side of the body about twenty digitiform processes of variable length, flexible but not motile ; each process is composed of clear protoplasm enveloped by the pellicle, and at its shghtly dilated extremity is lodged a bundle of trichocysts. Hastatella radians is a free-swimming Vorticellid which bears two circlets of pointed " fulcra," or spines, one circlet on the external border of the peristome, the other about the middle of the body (Collin). The peUicle may be greatly thickened to form a loriea, as in Coleps, where it is composed of a series of plates; or may be decorated with warts or sculpturings of various kinds, formed as local thickenmgs, as in some species of Vorticella, etc. The body is often enveloped in a protective sheath or envelope secreted by the animal, especially in sedentary forms. The animal may then be capable of protruding its body from the sheath, and retracting itself back again into it, and when retracted the aperture of the sheath may be closed by a special lid, or operculum. In the Tintinnidce, some species of which are free-swimming, others sedentary, the body secretes a shell or house, to which foreign bodies may be added, derived for the most part from the fa3cal pellets of the animal itself; the structure of these shells has been studied in detail by Entz (53). The sedentary habit of life occurs in sjoecies of all orders, though especially characteristic of Peritricha. The mechanism of fixation varies greatly in different cases. Stentor attaches itself by cilia, and also by pseudopodial processes thrown out from the point of fixation, and from this type is to be derived that of the Tintinnidce (Faure-Fremiet, 836). The hypotrichous genus Ancystropodium {Oxytrichidm) swims freely or attaches itself by its posterior cirri; the body is then drawn out at the hinder end into a long stalk (Faure-Fremiet, 837). Trachelius ovum possesses a conspicuous, sucker-like organ by means of which it attaches itself to the stalks of Episiylis-colonies, in order to devour the members of the colony (Hamburger, 841). In the Peritricha the attachment may be permanent or temporary; in the latter case the animal fixes itself by a sucker-like organ of the aboral pole. In Trichodina the adhesive organ is surroimded by a ring of cilia ; in Cyclo- chcBia there is an additional circlet of stiff bristles ; in Licnophora the disc of attachment is in the form of a cup surrounded by four concentric cihary membranes (Stevens, 872); these three genera, and others with similar modes of attachment, are ectozoic forms, attaching themselves to the skin of various aquatic animals. Faure-Fremiet (834) has traced the evolution of the per- manently fixed VorticeUid type from temporary fixation by an aboral sucker. As a starting-point is taken Hemispeira asierice, which attaches itself to the gills of Asterias by a bundle of fixative ciha. In Scyphidia fixation is by a cup- like sucker containing a circular brush of rod-hke processes, equivalent, apparently, to the fixative cilia of Hemispeira. For this brush-like organ the term " scopula " is proposed; the cilia in it have lost their motility and secrete a terminal chitinous knob. Episiylis fixes itself in a similar way by means of a scopula, of which each rod forms a secretion of albuminoid nature (bchroder, 865), which grows continually, forming a bundle of delicate tubes composing the stem, and ensheathed by an outer covering secreted by a rim round the scopula; the stem that results is a non-contractile structure representing a secretion of the body, and not a prolongation of the body Itself. The contractile stalk of Vorticella, Carchesium, etc., arises by an out