POLYMORPHISM AND LIFE-CYCLES 173 chapter, the macramoebse proclucod arc fewer than the micraiuoibaj, showing that the tendency to division is more restricted in the former case than in the latter. Again, in the development of C'enlro- pyxis, as described by Schaudinn (131), formation of gametes is initiated by a process of multiple fission combined with formation of secondary nuclei from chromidia, as in Arcdla, and in this way a number of amoebulae are produced. The amoebulae from one Centropyxis remain undivided, as macramoebse, while those pro- duced from another adult divide each into four micramoebse; syngamy takes place later between a micramoeba and a macramoeba, after each has secreted for itseK a shell. When the inhibition of the gamete-forming divisions is quite complete in one sex, the result is the most pronounced type of anisogamy occurring in Protozoa ; and, conversely, it may be said that aU cases of extreme anisogamy in Protozoa are of this type. In Metazoa the disproportion in the size of the gametes is mainly due to the relatively enormous growth of the gametocytOi partly also to the inequahty of the four cells produced by the reducing divisions, in the female sex. In Protozoa with extreme differen- tiation of gametes, on the other hand, such as the Coccidia and Ha3mosporidia, the gametocytes do not differ greatly, sometimes not at all, in size, though the female gametocyte may contain more reserve food - material, and consequently less protoplasm. The disproportion of the gametes is due almost entirely to the fact that in the female sex the gametocyte does not divide, but becomes a single macrogamete, while the male gametocyte sporulates to produce a larger or smaller number of microgametes. Very instructive in this respect is the comparison of the formation of the gametes in the gregarmes (p. 331) and the coccidia (p. 346) respectively, two groups of Protozoa which are certainly closely alhed to one another. In such a form as Coccidium (Fig. 152), the gametocytes remain separate one from the other, and the male gametocyte forms numerous minute microgametes which swarm away ; the female gametocyte, on the other hand, becomes a macro- gamete after going through a process of reduction, and is fertilized by a single microgamete. In gregarines, however, the gametocytes associate in couples, either before or after attaining then* full size, and become surrounded by a common cyst, within which each gametocyte sporulates to produce a large number of small gametes. The gametes of gregarines can be arranged in a series, showing marked anisogamy at one end, complete isogamy at the other. Thus in PterocepMlus (Fig. 79, A, B) the gametes are very unequal m size, and the microgametes are motile, the macrogametes not so. In Stylorhyndms the gametes of opposite sexes are equal in size, but m one sex the gametes are motile, in the other not (Fig. 79,