THE PROTOZOA 174 G, D). In Monocystis (Fig. 79, G—L) the gametes differ sUghtly in size in tlio two sexes, but have no organs of locomotion in eitlicr case. In Urospora (Fig. 79, E, F) the gametes are not appreciably different in size, but in those of one sex the nuclei are slightly smaller than in those of the other. Finally, in Gregarina, Diplodina, and many other genera, no difference whatever is perceptible between the two gametes that perform syngamy. In those gre- garines which have dimorphic gametes, syngamy is alwaj^s between two dissimilar individuals of distinct parentage, and it may be inferred, therefore, that in all cases aUke the gametes that unite are derived from distinct gametocytes. Fia. 79.—Gametes of different species of gregarines. A, Male, B, female, gamete of PterocepJudus (Nina) gracilis. 0 and D, Stylorhynchus longicollis : G, male gamete ; D, male gamete attaching itself to a female. E, Male, F, female, gamete of Urospora lagidis, showing differences in the size of the nuclei. 0—L, Monocystis sp. : 0, male gamete ; //, female; /, union of the two gametes, the nuclei still separate ; J, the two nuclei fusing ; K, the zygote becoming elongated ; L, the zygote has taken the form of the spore, and in the synkaryon a centrosome has appeared, preparatory to division. A and B after Leger and Duboscq ; G and JD after Leger ; E—L after Brasil. From a comparison of the life-cycles of the Coccidia and the Gregarines respectively (see p. 354, i7ifra), it is highly probable that in the common ancestor of the two groups the gametocytes were separate, as in Coccidium, and each produced numerous gametes, as in Gregarines. Since the gametes had to find each other, by a process of adaptation, those of one sex became smaller and more motile (microgametes), while those of the other sex were more bulky and inert (macrogametes). In the course of their evolution from this primitive ancestral type, the Coccidia, with some exceptions presently to be noted, retained the habit of the gametocytes, rcmainmg separate, and the Bpeciahzation of the gametes became greatly increased, as an adap-