308 THE PROTOZOA same genus as T. cruzi, in which case the name Endotrypanum has the priority over Schizoirypanum. In the present state of know- ledge, data are lacking for deciding how far it is possible to employ either multiplication by schizogony or an intracorpuscular habitat as characters for defining genera of trypanosomes. An iiitra- corpuscular habitat is probably commoner in trypanosomes than has usually been supposed. It has been described quite recently by Buchanan in T. hrucii. Attempts to subdivide the genus Trypanosoma as a whole have been based on the possibihty that the trypanosome-type of structure may have had two distinct phylogenetic origins, one through Leptomonas and Grithidia from a cercomonad ancestor, the other through Trypanoplasma from a heteromastigote or Bodonid type. The trypanosome-form might be imagined to have arisen from either of these two types. It could be derived from a form Hke Trypanoplasma by loss of the free anterior flageUum, in which case the flageUum of a trypanosome is to be regarded as posterior ; on the other hand, if, in a form Hke Leptomonas, the kuietonucleus and with it the origin of the flageUum, be shifted backwards to the neighbourhood of the trophonucleus, and if at the same time the flageUum runs forwards along the body connected to it by an un- dulating membrane, a Criihidia-likG form results, from which, by stiU further displacement backwards of the kinetonucleus and flageUum to near the posterior end of the body, a trypanosome- form is produced in which the single flageUum is to be regarded as anterior. It is therefore conceivable that the trypanosome-form may comprise two morphological types, structurally indistinguish- able, but entirely different in origin, and opposite in morphological orientation of the body. From this point of view. Woodcock (395) subdivided trypano- somes into two genera : Trypanomorpha, with cercomonad ancestry and flageUum morphologicaUy anterior ; and Trypanosoma, ni a restricted sense, with heteromastigote ancestry and flageUum morphologicaUy posterior. The genus Trypa^iomorpha mcluded only one species, T. noctuce of Athene noctua ; aU other species of trvpanosomes were left in the genus Trypanosoma sens, strict Liihe put forward a classification based on similar conceptions with different interpretations, and proposed three genera of trypano- somes • Hmmatomonas (Mitrophanow) for the trypanosomes of fresh- water fishes beheved to have a heteromastigote ancestry ; Trypano- zoon for the trypanosomes of mammals, such as T. lewisi, T. bruai, etc regarded as having a cercomonad ancestry and an anterior fl l\}nrn ■ and Trypanosoma sens, strict, for the trypanosomes of frofs and'reTt™ noctu., on the other hand, he regarded in agreement with Schaudinn (see p. 390, infra), merely as a develop-