THE PROTOZOA 108 siderable number of buds simultaneously, each of which becomes the nucleus of a daughter-individual budded off from the parent. The simplest types of mitosis show but little advance on the processes of direct division that have just been described. Taking first the vesicular type of nucleus with a large karyosome (" proto- karyon "), the first stage in the process is the division of the karyo- some, as in Coccidium ; its centriole divides first, then the karyo- some becomes constricted and divides, the two halves often plainly connected by the ccntrodesmose formed by the division of the cen- trioles. Next an achromatinic spindle is formed between the two daughter-karyosomes, and chromosomes make their appearance, derived partly (perhaps in some cases entirelj') from the peripheral zone of chromatin, partly from the chromatin contained in the karyosome. A good example of tliis mode of division has been described by Aragao (87) in an amoeba named by him A. diflomitotica from the fact that two types of mitosis occur in this species. In the first type (Fig. m,A—G), the little rod-like chromo- somes are not arranged in a definite equatorial plate, but are scattered irregularly along the spindle ; some travel to- wards one pole, some towards the other, and, after separation into two groups in this manner, the chromosomes of each group fuse together to form an apparently solid mass of chromatin, representmg the daughter- plates ; these masses of chromatin follow each their respective karyosomes as they travel apart, and when the nucleus is finally constricted into two daughter-nuclei, the chromatin-masses break up again into their constituent chromosomes, which become dis- tributed in the peripheral zone and karyosome of the daughter- nuclei, where they can be distinguished plainly even during the resting state (Fig. 56, ^). _ In the second type of mitosis seen in A. dijjlomitoitca (J^ig. 5b, H—K), the chromosomes arrange themselves in a definite equatorial Fig. 55.—Budding in Podophrya gemmipara. The macronucleus of the parent has sent off a number of outgrowths, which extend into the buds and give rise to the nuclei of the daughter-individuals about to be budded off. N^, Parent-nucleus ; N^, nuclei of buds. After Hertwig.