159 SYNGAMY AND SEX IN THE PROTOZOA when developed, perform any act of syngamy. The alleged sexuality of the forms described by Schaudinn lacks the only de- cisive criterion of sexual differentiation—namely, sexual behaviour ; and the differentiation exhibited by the two forms of trypanosomes described by Schaudinn admits of an entirely different and far less forced mterpretation (see p. 176, injra). There are two further criticisms that may be made of Schaudinn's theory. The first concerns the alleged universality of sexual differences in living matter. It must be pointed out that, as stated above, at the present time we have no evidence whatever of the occurrence of true sjmgamy in any organisms of the bacterial grade. The processes that have been interpreted by Schaudiim as autogamy in certain bacteria may be much more easily regarded as processes of internal regulation of the chromatin-substance. Nowhere yet has the union of two distinct gametes been observed in any bacterial organisms. The theory that sex is a universal characteristic, and syngamy an elementary function, of living things, does not rest at the present time on any basis of established fact. The second criticism is that the terms " male " and " female " require definition and explanation, without which they remain meaningless, connoting merely unknown, mystic properties, not further analyzable, of the living substance. The characteristic feature exhibited by male cells is the preponderance of kinetic activity, and by female cells, of trophic functions, as Schaudinn and many others have pointed out. Before Schaudinn, the same idea was expressed in different language by Geddes and Thomson (114), who regarded the male sex as characterized by katabolic, the female sex by anabolic activities. It we suppose that these two manifestations of physiological activity have each a distinct material basis in the living cell, then it can easily be imagined that the imperfections of cell-division may lead to the production of cells in which one or the other substance predominates. This is the view that Doflein (7) has developed in his very interesting critical summary of the views that have been put forward upon the sexual problem. He supposes, further, that these two different physio- logical qualities depend upon substances which have intense mutual interactions and attract each other strongly, and that a certain equilibrium between them is necessary for the normal life of the cell. When, therefore, one or the other substance preponderates greatly m a cell, a functional derangement results ; but since cells differentiated in opposite directions attract each other strongly, they tend to unite, and by their union to restore equilibrium. The question of the sexual differentiation of the gametes is one that will be discussed at greater length in the next chapter. It is only necessary to pomt out here that a clear distinction must be