240 THE PROTOZOA Fig. 98. — Flagellula of Stemonitis fusca, show- ing successive stages in the capture of a bacillus. In a it is captured by one of the pseudopodia at the hinder end ; in c it is enclosed in a diges- tive vacuole. Another bacillus is contained in an anterior vacuole. From Lister, magnified 800. be several inches across and contain many thousands of nuclei. The Plasmodium moves about in various directions, showing exquisite streaming movements of the proto- plasmic body (Fig. 99). The nature of the food varies in different species; the majority feed on dead vegetable matter, but some attack and devour living fungi. The mode of nutrition is generally holozoic, but in some cases perhaps saprophytic. Contractile vacuoles are present in large numbers in the protoplasm, in addition to the innumer- able nuclei, which are all similar and not differentiated in any way. The plasmodia are often brightly coloured. From their mode of life, the plasmodia are naturally liable to desiccation, and when this occurs the plasmodium passes into the sclerotial condition, in which the proto- plasm breaks up into numerous cysts, each containing ten to twenty nuclei. When moistened, the cysts germinate, the con- tained masses of protoplasm fuse together, and so reconstitute the active plasmodium again. The Plasmodium represents the trophic, vegetative phase, which is succeeded by the reproductive phase, apparently in response to external conditions, such as drought, but more es- pecially scarcity of food. The reproduction begins by the plasmodium be- coming concentrated at one or more spots, where the protoplasm aggre- gates and grows up into a lobe or eminence, the beginning of the sporangium (Fig. 100), the capsule in which the spores are found. The sporangium is modelled, as it were, on the soft protoplasmic body, and takes the form of a rounded capsule, attached to the substratum by a disc-like attachment known as the hypothallus. Between the sporangium Fig. 99.—Part of a plasmodium of Badhamia uiricularis expanded over a slide. From Lister, magnified 8 diameters.