THE H^EMOSPORIDIA 367 provided with wiiigs (some genera of this family, sueh as Mdophagus, the common sheep-ked, are wingless), are extremely louse-hke in appearance, and creep in the plumage of bn:ds ; they attack nest- Hngs as weU as adults-a fact which explams the appearance of the infection in pigeons before they have left the nest. When blood containing the parasites is taken up by a Lyncliia, the ripe gametocytes burst the corpuscles in which they are con- tahied, round themselves off, and form gametes, in the nianner ahready described for hsemamoebse, in the stomach of the lly (Fig 157, D, E). Fertnization then takes place, and ookuietes are formed (Fig.' 157, F—J). Practically the only difference from the h^mamoebse is that the ookuietes get rid of then melanin-pigment, which is cast ofi in a smaU bead of protoplasm at the hmder end. The ookmete grows considerably larger than the full-grown halteridia of the blood. The development of the parasite does not proceed further, apparently, than this stage in the fly, and it is the ookmete which is inoculated back into the bird's blood by the Lynchia. At this point there is a gap in the development which it remains for further observations to fill up. Thirteen or fourteen days after the actual infection by the fly the parasite makes its first recorded appearance in the pigeon, withm a leucocyte which is adherent to the wall of a blood-capiUary, so that possibly the previous develop- ment of the parasite has taken place in an endothelial cell (Aragao). The parasite has the form of a small round body contained in the cytoplasm of a leucocyte (Fig. 156, K) ; it has a single nucleus of Fig. 157.—Developmental cycle of Eo37noproteus columbw, after Aragao (683). A, Youngest halteridia in the blood-corpuscles: a, female; b, male ; B, C, growth of the gametocytes, female (a) and male (6); D, gamete-formation : a, reducing division in the female gametocyte; b, division of the nucleus of the male; E, ripe gametes: a, female; b, male (" Polymitus " stage); F, copulation of male and female gametes ; G, the zygote beginning to assume the ookinete-form ; H, the ookinete with pigment in the body ; I, the pigment passing to the hinder end of the body ; <7, the ookinete after it has got rid of the pigment. K, Youngest stage in the leucocyte in the lung of the pigeon ; L, the pre- ceding stage has divided into a number of small individuals, each with one nucleus, and the leucocyte has increased in size ; M, the individuals of the last stage have grown in size and become multinucleate ; the leucocyte still further enlarged ; N, further advance on the last; 0, the greatly hypertrophied leucocyte contains a number of multinucleate masses ; P, Q, further multi- plication of the nuclei; the leucocyte beginning to break down ; R, the multi- nucleate masses become divided into a vast number of small miinucleate individuals, which are set free from the leucocyte by its disintegration, and which penetrate into blood-corpuscles and there become the youngest halteri- dia, as in yl. The stages D—J are passed through in the fly {Lynchia), the stages K—G in the pigeon. Between J, the last stage seen in the fly, and K, the earliest stage yet found in the pigeon, is a gap which it remains for further investigation to till. The stages R—J are drawn rather too small in proportion to those pre- ceding.