272 THE PROTOZOA organism rather than as distinct generic types. Trichomonas hominia is cntozoic in the human intestine, T. vaginalis in the human vagina ; they appear to be harmless scavengers rather than parasites. The cncystment of Trichomonas has been the subject of some controversy. According to Alexeioff (326), the supposed cysts of Trichomonas described by various authors are in reality independent vegetable organisms, of the nature of yeasts. In some species of Trichomonas the anterior flagella are four in number (Aloxeieff, 323); for such forms Parisi {A.P.K., xix., p. 232) has founded a subgenus Tetratricho- monas. The genus Macrostoma, according to Wenyon (362), differs from Trichomonas in having the undulating membrane wedged in a deep groove; 31. mesnili occurs in the human intestine. According to Alexeieff (324), Macrostoma is a synonjmi of Tetramitus. Mono- cercomonas, includmg a number of common intestinal parasites, has four anterior flagella of equal length, or two longer, two shorter (Alexeieff, 325). Gostia necatrix, also referred to this family, is ectoparasitic on the skin of fishes. According to Moroff, it has four flagella in two pairs, two larger and two smaller, all of which serve for locomotion; but the larger pair are used also for fixation, and the smaller pair for wafting into the mouth the food-particles, which consist chiefly of dead epithelial ceUs torn away from the epidermis (see also Neresheimer). 2. Octomitidce.*—With six or eight flagella, arranged in pairs; the body is bilateraUy symmetrical in structure. Entozoic forms, for the most part of intestinal habitat. The remarkable bilateral symmetry of the species of this family is not merely an external characteristic of the body, but affects the internal structure as weU, and the entire nuclear structure is doubled, with right and left halves. Octomitus (synonym, Hefcamitus ; see Dobell, 236), with four pairs of flageUa (Fig. 116), includes a number of entozoic species—e.g., 0. intestinalis, from the cloaca of the frog and other animals. Lamblia intestinalis (synonym, Megastoma entericum, Fig. 117) is a common inhabitant of the human intestine. It becomes Suhe stmXrerindicated encysted, and is probably disseminated in this are paired, and the letters form. Withm the cyst it divides into two - • " - ' (Rodenwaldt). L. sanguinis, described by Gonder {A.P.K., xxi., p. 209) from the blood of a falcon, is probably an intestinal parasite gone astray {vide p. 258). The order Polymastigina differs little from the Protomonadma except in the compUcation of the flagellar apparatus, correlated probably with the entozoic habit. Hartmann and Chagas propose to merge the Polymastigma * Doflein terms this family the Pohjmastigidce, but the name is clearly in- admissible, since the genus Polymaslix belongs to the f ^ f ""1^',^"^ closely allied to Trichomonas, but has six anterior flageUa and no tiailing flagellum (compare Alexeieff, 325). Fig. 116.—Octomitus dujar- dini. U.^, Anterior blep- haroplast, from which the first and second flagella of that side of the body arise; U.^, second blepharoplast, giving off the flagellum of the third pair; N., left-hand nucleus ; ax., left axostyle ; bl.^, third blepharoplast, at the extremity of the axo- style, giving off one of the flagella of the fourth pair. indicate the member of each pair on the left side of ths body. After Dobell (236).