214 THE PROTOZOA are visible to the naked eye, and some of the Radiolaria, Foramin- ifera, and Mycctozoa, attain to a size that must be considered gigantic for Protozoa. Tlie more primitive forms, on the otlier hand, are often very minute. Tlie body-form is of two principal types, related to distinct habits of life—namely, the amoeboid type, characteristic of forms that creep on a firm substratum; and the radiate type, seen in floating forms. Amoeboid forms are found aquatic, semiterrestrial, and parasitic ; radiate forms are for the most part pelagic, living floating or suspended in large masses of water, marine or fresli-water. The protoplasmic body is in many cases distinctly differentiated into clear motile ectoplasm and granular trophic endoplasm. The surface of the protoplasm is naked, or may be covered in rare in- stances {Amoeba verrucosa, A. terricola, etc.) by a very thin pellicle which modifies, but does not restrain, the amoeboid movements. A resistant cuticle or cell-membrane investing the body is not formed, but an external shell or internal supporting skeleton is frequently present. The locomotor organs in the adult are always pseudopodia, which may be of various types—lobose, filose, or reticulose (Chapter V., p. 46) ; they may lie in one plane, as in creeping forms, or may be given ofi on all sides, as in pelagic forms. The youngest forms (swarm-spores) may be flagellate or amoeboid. In some cases the pseudopodia of the young forms may differ markedly in character from those of the adult; for example, the adult Amoeha proteus has fluid protoplasm with thick lobose pseudopodia, but the young amoebula produced from the cyst of this species has viscid proto- plasm with sharp, spiky pseudopodia (Scheel). The free-living Sarcodina are almost without exception holozoic, capturing other organisms by means of their pseudopodia, and devouring them ; but the remarkable genus Chlamydomyxa (p. 243) has chromatophores, and can live in either a holozoic or holophytic manner, like some flagellates ; and the genus PauUnella, allied to Euglypha, also possesses chromatophores, and is capable of holo- phytic nutrition (Lauterborn). The nuclear apparatus consists of one or more nuclei, in addition to which chromidia may be present. A single nucleus is charac- teristic of the majority of species, even of many which grow to very large size, such as many Radiolaria, in which the nucleus also attains to proportions relatively gigantic. In other cases increase in the size of the body is accompanied by multiplication of the nuclei • there may be two nuclei constantly, as in Ammba hmucleata (Schaudinn), or several, as in Difflugia urceolaUi, or many hundreds, as in ActinospJicerium and Pdomyxa, or even thousands, as m the Mycetozoa. In such forms the adult is a plasmodmm, but the