79 THE NUCLEUS is probably based on incomplete or erroneous observation, or on defective technique. In all Protozoa that have been examined in recent times, at least one nucleus has been found to occur without exception, though in some phases of the development the nucleus may temporarily disappear and resolve itself into chromidia. There now remains for consideration the question of the centro- some, the centre of the kinetic activity of the nucleus. Of all the questions connected with the nuclear apparatus, those relating to the centrosome are the most difficult to handle in a general manner, largely on account of the minuteness of the bodies dealt with, and the consequent difficulty of ascertaining their structure and com- position, even their presence, in many cases. Hence, in the litera- ture of the centrosome, there is found considerable confusion in the terminology, different authors disagreeing entirely as to the precise structures to Avhich the name centrosome should be applied, and opposed theories, which cannot be discussed adequately in a short space, have been put forward as to the nature and origin of the centrosome. As the focus of the kinetic activities of the nucleus, the centro- some is most apparent and recognizable when the nucleus is in process of reproduction by division, and much less so when the nucleus is in the so-called "resting state." Hence the study of the nucleus during the process of division is alone decisive as to the presence of a centrosome in any given case ; and since in many cases nuclear division appears to go on without centrosomes being present, it may be taken as equally probable that, in all such cases at least, no centrosome is present in the resting state of the nucleus In many cases, however, the presence of a centrosome in, or in connection with, the resting nucleus can be ascertained clearly ; it may then lie either outside or inside the nucleus. When the centrosome lies outside the nucleus, as it usually does in the cells of Metazoa, it is found typically as a minute grain or pah: of grams (" diplosome ") close beside the nuclear membrane. Its presence may be indicated by the radiate structure of the surrounding protoplasm, giving the appearance of a system of rays centred on the centrosome ; but such radiations are absent as a rule during the resting state of the nucleus, and the appearance of rays is often the first sign of impending activity and division of the nucleus. In many cases the centrosome is found lying in a mass of clear protoplasm termed arcJioplasm, a substance which differs, apparently, from the rest of the cytoplasm only in being free from granulations of all kinds. Archoplasm may, in short, be regarded simply as pure cytoplasm, and it appears either perfectly homogeneous, or traversed by striations which radiate from the centrosome, through the archoplasm, and even beyond its limits;