THE PROTOZOA irregular form, often seen in process of division. The parasite grows, xts nucleus multiplies, and it divides into a number of small tr ^ ""'^'.^'^ ^^^^^ ^'''^ -"-i m size. Each of the small bodies produced by division grows rapidly m its turn, and its nucleus divides repeatedly to produce a very large number of nuclei, which become arranged in clumps resembling the sporoblasts of a malarial parasite (Fig 156 if—0) Finally each mass becomes divided up into a great number of minute " merozoites " of irregular form (Fig. 156 P~R) During this process the leucocyte first becomes greatly hypertrophicd, and finaUy breaks doAvn altogether, setting free the merozoites which pass into the blood and attack the blood-corpuscles, into which they penetrate and become the young halteridia (Fig 156 A) The development in the lung that has been described takes "about twelve days, so that the youngest parasites make their appearance m the circulating blood about the twenty-sixth day after infection by the fly. In the blood-corpuscles the youngest halteridia are minute bodies with a single nucleus, which grow into the adult form, and become male or female gametocytes, readily distinguishable by the characters of the cytoplasm, which is darker in the female, and of the nucleus, which is larger in the male (Fig. 156, B, C). No multi- plication takes place in the red corpuscle; the sole multiplicative stage known with certainty is that in the lung. Consequently, in the pigeon the infection dies out after a time, unless re-infections take place, and the degree to which parasites abound in the blood is related directly to the number of infected flies fed on the bird. This may not be equally true, however, of other species of these parasites. From Aragao's account it would appear that in H. columboe only male and iemale halteridia (sporonts) occur. In other species, however, indifferent lorms occur also, which, it may be supposed, are destined as schizonts to repeat the process of schizogony, and so to maintain the infection in the bird, like tlie schizonts of the malarial parasites. Anschiitz has described in H. oryzivorce (of Padda oryzivora) a process of schizogony taking place in the circulating blood. The development of the halteridia in the leucocytes may be considered, probably, as equivalent to the schizogony of the malarial parasites. On this interpretation the missing part of the development is that wliich corresponds to the sporogony of the malarial parasite, and which in this case is either suppressed entirely (" aposporogony," Aragao), or takes place in the verte- brate host, in some manner yet to be described, instead of in the invertebrate. The absence of sporogony, and of any but the sexual phases, in the Lynchia, doubltess explains the short duration of the infectivity of the fly; according to Aragao, if the flies are fed for three days on clean pigeons, they cease to be infective. Some of the stages in the lung sliow a certam resemblance to the sporogony of the malarial parasites, especially the formation of sporoblast- like masses, which, however, are probably more comparable to the schizonto- cytes of Caryotropha than to true sporoblasts.