THE PROTOZOA 466 cytoplasm distinct, which moved by means of pseudopodia • but It must be supposed that some of the, pseudopodia very soon under- went modifications which resulted in the acquisition of true flagella and thus arose at a very early stage of evolution the flagellula or monad-form. In all probabihty these earliest monads were forms with an amoeboid body, most nearly represented at the present day by such forms as Cercomonas (Fig. 114) or the flagellulae of Mycetozoa (Fig. 98). From such forms arose the Sarcodina and then: derivatives (Neosporidia) by loss of flagella and speciahzation of the amoeboid form in the adult, and the Mastigophora and their derivatives (Telosporidia, Infusoria) by speciahzation of the flagellar apparatus combined with the acquisition of a cortex and loss of amoeboid movement. If the foregoing phylogenetic speculations be accepted, it is clear that in a natural classification of the Protozoa the Sporozoa must be abohshed as a class, and the two groups comprised in them must either be raised to the rank of independent classes or dis- tributed amongst the others—the Telosporidia placed near the Mastigophora, the Neosporidia near the Sarcodma. The primary subdivision of the Protozoa, if it is to represent the first branching of the ancestral stem, should be one which places on one side the Mastigophora, Telosporidia (better RhabdogeniEe), and Infusoria, on the other the Sarcodma and Neosporidia (better Amoebogenise). Beyond this point it is scarcely profitable at the present time to push phylogenetic speculations farther. In conclusion, two groups of organisms require brief mention— the Spirochaetes and the Chlamydozoa—suice by many authorities they have been referred to a position in or near the Protozoa. The Spirochjetes. , Under the name " spirochaetes " are grouped a number of or- ganisms, free-living or parasitic, with flexible bodies of slender, thread-like form, concerning the nature and systematic position of which a great deal of confusion has existed of recent years, due chiefly to conflicting statements with regard to the facts of their structure and methods of reproduction. The group comprises five principal types, regarded each as of generic rank : 1. Spirochceta sens, strict., a name given by Ehrenberg in 1833 to a relatively large, free-living form, S. 'plicaiilis. Other species of the genus have been described. For a full account, see Zuelzer (904). 2. Cristispira, a name proposed by Gross (897) for a number of species parasitic in the digestive tract or crystalline style of LameUi- branch molluscs, and characterized by the possession of a crest or