223 THE SARCODINA animal reproduces itself by fission. Tho sexual process begins by two such amcebffi commg together and surrounding themselves \vith a cyst in common. Within tho cyst their nuclei first give off vegetative chromidia, which are absorbed, after which the two nuclei in each separate amoeba fuse together to form a single nucleus, a synkaryon. The protoplasmic bodies of the two amcsbte now fuse completely into one, after which each synkaryon goes through two reducing divisions, producing each two reduction-nuclei, of which the first may divide again, so that there may be in the cyst six reduction- nuclei altogether, which are gradually absorbed. The two persistent synkarya, after imdergoing this process of reduction, approach each other, but remain separate, and the amosba is hatched out of the cyst to begin its vegetative life with two nuclei representing gamete-nuclei that have undergone reduction —that is to say, pronuclei—which remain separate and multiply by fission throughout the vegetative life, and do not undergo syngamic fusion until the end of it. In Amoeba hinucleata, described by Schaudinn, the vegetative phase also contains two similar nuclei which multiply simultaneously by division each time the animal divides ; but in this case the complete life-cycle is not known. Owing to the practical importance of the entozoic amoebae, and the attention that has been directed to them in consequence, their life-cycles have been more studied and are better known than those of the free-living species. According to Mercier, Entamoeba blattce multiplies by binary fission in the gut of its host, and later becomes encysted, passing out of the body of its host in this condition. Within the protective cyst it breaks up by multiple fission, follow- ing repeated division of the nucleus, into a number of amoebulse, which are set free from the cyst when it is devoured accidentally by a new host. The amoebulae are gametes which copulate after being set free, and the zygote grows into the ordinary vegetative form of the amoeba. E. blattce thus furnishes a very characteristic and primitive type of the life-cycle of an entozoic amoeba, and one which differs only in points of specific difference from that of Amoeba minuta, described above. The question of the human entozoic amoebae is at present in a somewhat confused state. The occurrence of amoebae in the hinder region of the human digestive tract, especially the colon, has long been known, and the name Amoeba coU was given by Losch to such organisms (synonym, Entamoeba hominis, Casagrandi and Barba- gallo). It is, however, certain that more than one species of amoeba occurs in the human bowel, and Losch's name must therefore be restricted to one of these. An epoch in the study of human entozoic amoeba? was marked by the researches of Schaudinn (131), who distinguished two species. The first, to wiiich Jie restricted the name Entamoeba coli, occurs commonly in Europe and elsewhere as a harmless inhabitant of the intestine—that is to say, like ^. blattcB and many others, it is not, under normal circumstances at least a parasite in any sense of the word, but a simple scavenger, feeding on bacterial lltS'.Z ""Tl'Tt '^nd rectum. The second species, to which Schaudinn gave tho name E. histolytica* is, on the contrary