THE H^EMOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED EORMS 317 are probably taken up by leucoeytes, and in them they may be carried into the general circulation. Although the diseases caused by these parasites are termed comprehensively " leishmanioses," they are not all of one type. L. donovani produces a systemic disease, very deadly m its effects, and the parasite is found in immense numbers in the spleen, bone- marrow, liver, etc. L. infantum is similar in its effects. L. tropica, on the other hand, produces a purely local infection, manifested in the form of one or more boils on the skin, each of which, accord- ing to Wenyon (84), represents either a single infection by the insect, as yet not known with certainty, which transmits the disease, or a secondary infection by a house-fly or by the m- dividual hunself from another boil on the skin. The infection by L. tropica has an incubation-period of about two months. The disease lasts from twelve to eighteen months, and one attack, after it is healed spontaneously, confers absolute immunity for the rest of the patient's life. Corresponding with these difierences in A B C D E Fig. 139.—Leishmania donovani. A, Three parasites in the ordinary condition, each showing a larger trophonucleus and a smaller kinetonucleus ; B, G, D, stages of binary fission ; E, multiple fission into three parts. After Chris- tophers. the effects produced by the parasites, there are also slight structural differences to be made out in them. L. donovani (Fig. 138) is very uniform in shape, being rounded or ovoid ; L. tropica (Fig. 140), on the other hand, shows more variety of form, with every transition from elongated, narrow forms with one end pointed to the typical oval body (Row, Wenyon). No other stage than that described above is known from the -human body ; but it was first discovered by Rogers (576) for L. donovani, and subsequently confirmed by other investigators for this and other species, that in artificial cultures the parasite develops into a typical leptomonad form (Fig. 140). The LeisTi- mania-ioims m the cultures grow considerably in size, and at the same time multiply by fission. The relatively large rounded forms become pear-shaped, and a flagellum is developed at the blunt end of the body; finally the organism assumes the typical elongated form of a leptomonad, with a long flagellum arising close beside the kme- tonucleus, which is situated near the anterior end of the body. Leishman and Statham have described a further stage in the