394 THE PROTOZOA coU-parasites of the second (compare Leger and Duboacq, 646). However enticing such a view may seem when only tlie forms parasitic in the verte- brate hosts are taken into consideration, the facts of the development in the invertebrate hosts must dispel completely any notion of affinity between the two types. Nothing could bo imagined more different than the develop- ment of Leishnama, with its typical leptomonad forms (Fig. 140), and that of Piroplasma (Pig. 162), with no flagellated stages at all in its life-cycle. It becomes evident at onco that any apparent resemblance between the two genera is due to convergent adaptation induced by a similar mode of parasitism, and that the two forms are in reality poles apart, with no more real affinity than porpoises and fishes, or bats and birds. It is certainly not at this point that any transition from one group to the other is to be sought.* In the foregoing paragraphs an attempt has been made to sum up the arguments for and agamst the theory that the Hsemosporidia are to be removed from the vicinity of the Coccidia,and classified with the trypanosomes and aUied forms in an order of the Flagellata. When the evidence on each side is weighed in the balance, in one scale must be placed the complete similarity of the life-cycleo of typical Coccidia and Hsemosporidia, a similarity seen in every phase of the life-cycle, and extending even to minor developmental details ; and in the other scale certain cell-granules of doubtful significance. It is almost inconceivable that more importance should be attached to cytological details, the genetic and classifi- catory value of which is at present quite uncertain, than to the homologies of the life-cycle as a whole, in estimating the affinities of the orders of Protozoa ; the more so since even in the Htemo- flagellates themselves the possession of the bmucleato type of structure does not, apparently, indicate a common ancestry for all members of the group. The conclusion reached is, then, that the Haemosporidia as a group, excluding doubtful forms insufficiently investigated at present, are closely allied to the Coccidia. It is, indeed, probable that there are two lines of evolution in the group—the one repre- sented by the hsemamoebse, halteridia, and true leucocytozoa, descended from a Coccidium-like ancestor ; the other represented by the haemogregarines, from an ancestral form similar to Adelea or Orcheobius. Leger (644) has classified the hsemogregarines in the section Adeleidea of the Coccidia, and one may regret that the distinguished French naturalist did not go one step farther and place the hsemamoebse in his section Eimeridea (see p. 352, supra). On the other hand, any resemblances which the Haemosporidia exhibit to trypanosomes and allied forms are due to convergent adaptation on the part of the Flagellates themselves, and more especially to the secondary acquisition by the latter of intracellular * Leger and Duboscq (046), who derive Leishniania and Babesia directly from Orithidia as a common ancestor, do not seem to have taken the development of Babesia (PirojJasvia) into consideration at all; they neither refer to it in their text nor cite any of the relevant memoirs in their bibliography.