THE MASTIGOPHORA 263 2. There is a single nucleus with its centrosome, and in addition one or more blopharoplasts in relation to the flagellar apparatus. Then (a) at division the old blopharoplasts and flagella are lost, and new blepharoplasts arise during or after nuclear division from the centrosomes ; or (6) the blepharo- plasts and flagella persist, and the former divide independently to form daughter-blepharoplasts from which new flagella arise (Fig. 43). 3. In a certain number of Flagellata, grouped provisionally as Hsemo- flagellates or Bmucleata (see next chapter), two nuclei, each probably possess- ing its own centrosome, are present: a principal or trophic nucleus and an accessory or kinetic nucleus. In Type 2 the blepharoplast attains to a greater or less degree of indepen- dence of the centrosome, and divides independently of it for many generations of ordinary vegetative reproduction by fission. But there are probably in all cases periods in the life-cycle when the entire nuclear apparatus is reduced to a single nucleus and centriole, from which the condition in the adult, whatever it may be, arises. For the so-called fourth type of Hartmann and Chagas (62), see below (p. 273). Reproduction and Life-Cycle.—The commonest method of repro- duction is simple or binary fission in the free state. The products of the fission are of equal size, and the division of the body is in- variably longitudinal (Senn, 358)—that is to say, along an axis continuing the direction of the principal flagellum or flagella. In addition to this, the typical method of reproduction, other types of division occur. Multiple fission in the free active condition is known in some parasitic forms, such as Trypanosoma lewisi and Lophomonas hlaitarum (Janicld, 70). On the other hand, fission may sometimes take place in a resting, non-flagellated condition, or within a cyst; in the first case it is frequently, in the second perhaps always, of a multiple type. The occurrence of syngamy in the life-cycle is a point which has been disputed, probably owing to the fact that in forms of simple structure it takes place only at long intervals m the life- cycle, or under special conditions. Moreover, the longitudinal division prevalent in tliis group makes it practically very difficult to decide, except by continuous observation, whether two conjoined flagellates are individuals about to fuse in syngamy or to separate after fission. In the colonial Phytomonadina, where highly-differ- entiated gametes are found, the occurrence of S3m.gamy has long been known, but the existence of sexual processes in other flagel- lates has been doubted by high authorities. In recent years, how- ever, it has been observed in a number of forms, and there can be no doubt of the existence of sexual processes in flagellates generally. A summary of recent observations, with full references, is given by Dobell (335, pp. 109-111). The available data are as yet insufficient to make it possible to give a connected account of syngamic pro- cesses in Flagellata generally, and only a few typical cases can be dealt with here. A simple type of syngamy has been described in Oopromonas