417 THE NEOSPORIDIA duced, which may forzn a conspicuous cyst. From the plasmodial stage spororits arise by separation of a mass of protoplasm round a nucleus within tlie body of the parasite, and thus distinct colls are formed lying in vacuoles in the Plasmodium. Such colls are commonly termed " pansporoblasts," but the use of this term is best avoided, since the cells in question are in no way equivalent to the pansporoblasts of Myxosporidia, which are associa- tions of two gamonts; but they correspond exactly to the sporonts of Nosema and other genera, and proceed to the formation of spores in the manner that has been described already, dividing first into several sporoblasts. The Plasmodia of the Glugea-type lead, as already stated, to the forma- tion of conspicuous cysts, visible to the naked eye, in the tissues of the host; but the composition and nature of these cysts are at present a matter of dispute. According to Stempell (784), in Glngea anomala, the body of the parasite is sharply defined and marked off from the tissues of the host by a thick membrane or autocyst (" Eigencyst") formed by the parasite itself (Fig. 174, e). Within thejautocyst is contained the plasmodium, consisting of ~ f : '1,'"*" X f) ^...itiTf'--^ 1 i ...I >••*•*. ; • I \-rryz psp. Fig. 174.—Glugea anomala, Moniez: part of a section of a cyst, c, Envelope (autocyst); bn, vegetative nuclei; sp., spores ; psp, sporont lying in a space in the protoplasm. After Stempell. protoplasm contaming many nuclei, amongst which the most conspicuous are large—indeed, relatively gigantic—vegetative nuclei, which multiply by direct division. From the vegetative nuclei the minute nuclei of the sporonts are stated to arise, while in other case vegetative nuclei break up and de- generate. Schroder (781) and Schuberg, on the other hand, maintain that the large vegetative nuclei of Stempell are in reality tissue-nuclei of the host, greatly hypertrophied and mixed up with the plasmodium of the parasite. Schuberg found that Pleistophora longifilis, from the testis of the barbel, causes a hyper- trophy, not only of the host-cell in which it is contained, but also of neigh- bourmg cells, the effect of which is to produce a sort of host-plasmodium as It were, containing gigantic liost-nucloi of irregular form (Fig. 171), amongst winch the sporonts and spores of the parasite are scattered. Mrazek also interprets the supposed vegetative nuclei of Myxocyslis as hypertrophied host-nuclei (see below). This interpretation of the composition of the Plas- modium greatly diminishes, or even abolishes, the prmcipal distinction between Ulugea and the other genera of Microsporidia. In opposition to this view, 27