18 THE PROTOZOA Ij'pe that may bo denoted as food-robbers are in general very harmless to their hosts. Those parasites, however, that liourish themselves on the sub- stance of the host may produce the most dangerous effects on its health and weU-being. As in the case of the food-robbers, parasites of this kind may absorb then- food in one of two ways. They may devour solid j)ortions of the host's body in a holozoic manner ; an example of this is seen in Entamoeba histolytica (Fig. 90), the parasite of amoebic dysentery, which devours portions of the host's tissue, such as epithelial cells, or blood-corpuscles. But more usually the parasites absorb then nourishment in a fluid form tlnrough the surface of their body, doubtless by the help of enzymes secreted by them. Hence it is typical of true parasites to have lost all trace of special organs for the capture, ingestion, or digestion, of solid food. Just as in the epizoic mode of life a harmless or even beneficial commensalism may degenerate by insensible gradations into dangerous parasitism, so the same is true of the entozoic habit. An organism which begins by being a scavenger readUy becomes a food-robber. Lophonionas, for instance, may be seen to contain starch-grams and other substances which probably belong to the food of its host. A fm-ther but easy gradation leads to the entozoic organism devoming portions of its host. A good example of this is seen in two of the entozoic amoibaj of the human intestine : the common Entamoeba coli (Fig. 89) appears to be chiefly a scavenger, harmless to its host, and not deserving the reproach of parasitism ; on the other hand, E. Ustolylica is a dangerous parasite. So also an entozoic organism, Avhich begins by merely absorbing the pro- ducts of digestion, may end by absorbing the substance of its host. It is higlily probable that in many entozoic organisms the mode of feeding may vary according to circumstances, and that an organism which may be a harmless commensal under some conditions may become a more or less dangerous parasite under others. The entozoic Protozoa which are truly parasitic may inhabit a variety of situations in the bodies of their hosts. In some cases the host is another species of Protozoon, into the body of which the intruder penetrates, living either in the cytoplasm or the nucleus. Amosbaj are very subject to the attacks of intranuclear parasites, and the young stages of many Acinetans are parasitic upon other Infusoria When the host is one of the Metazoa, the invading organism may be in like manner mtracellular or intranuclear in habitat; or it may penetrate into the tissues, living amongs and between the constituent cells ; or it may inhabit, finally, one of the internal cavities of the'body, such as the digestive tract genera iody cavity, spaces containing blood or lymph, cavities of the renal