363 THE H^MOSPORTDIA gnat's stomach, and comes to rest in the subepithehal tissue ; here it rounds itseK o& and forms an oocyst (Fig. 156, XIV.), becommg surrounded by a delicate membrane, Avhich is not, liowever, of a tough and impervious naturelike a coccidian oocyst, since the parasite continues to absorb nutriment and to grow in size, bulging out the stomach-wall towards the body-cavity. As it grows, the originally single nucleus of the zygote multiplies by bmary fission, and the cytoplasm becomes concentrated round each nucleus to form a " sporoblast," so called (Fig. 156, XV., XVI.). In each sporoblast the nucleus divides repeatedly, and then the surface of the sporo- blast grows out into slender tongue-like processes, each carrying out one of the nuclei in it (Fig. 156, XVII.). Thus a vast number of minute sporozoites are formed by a process of multiplication recallmg that seen in the schizogony of Aggregata or Porospora. Finally the cyst contains some hundreds, or even thousands, of sporozoites, together with a certain amount of residual protoplasm, in which the melanin-pigment of the macrogamete is contamed (Fig. 156, XVIII.). The ripe cysts burst and scatter their contents in the body-cavity (hsemocoele) of the mosquito ; the sporozoites pass by means of the blood-currents to the salivary glands, in which they collect in vast numbers. The mosquito is now infective ; at its next feed, which is usually the fourth, counting as the first that by which it first took up the parasites in the infected blood, the tiny sporozoites pass with the salivary secretion down the proboscis into the blood of the man on whom the mosquite feeds, and so produce a new infection. A disputed point in the life-cycle is the manner in which relapses are brought about in malarious persons ; as is well known, persons who have had malaria may have fresh attacks of the disease under conditions which preclude infec- tion by mosquitoes, and leave no doubt but that the parasite has been present in the body in a latent or inconspicuous condition, and has for some reason reacquired the power of multiplication until its presence becomes perceptible again. Two views have been put forward to explain relapses. According to Schaudinn (130), in the healthy intervals all forms of the parasite have died off except the female sporonts, which are the most resistant forms of the parasite, and maintain their existence in a resting state ; when, however, the conditions occur, whatever they may be, which favour a relapse, the female sporonts multiply parthenogenetically (Fig. 72, p. 137), and produce a brood of merozoites which are the starting-point of a fresh series of schizogonous generations. Ross, on the other hand, believes that in the healthy intervals the number of parasites in the blood merely falls below that sufficient to pro- duce febrile symptoms, and that a relapse is brought about simply by an increase in the numbers of the parasites present. The number of cysts formed in the stomach of the mosquito may be very large, 500 or more ; and the cysts themselves vary in size considerably, some developing only a few hundreds of sporozoites, while in others they are to be counted in thousands. Even in mosquitoes of a species susceptible generally to a particular species of malarial parasite, however, the sporonts do not succeed in every case in passing through their sexual stages and developing normally (compare Darling, 669). In many cases also the cysts degenerate