THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA 47 be followed. In the gi'owing pseudopodium a strong current can be observed flowing down the axis to the tip, and there sprcadnig out and breaking up into weaker currents which turn round and flow backwards along the surface of the pseudopodium. In amoebse with a very viscid surface layer the back-currents are very feeble, ceasing a short way from the tip of the pseudopodium, and often scarcely discernible, or even absent altogether ; in species with a fluid ectoplasm, however, the back - currents are distinctly seen and may even pass back and bend round again to join the forward axial current, as described by Rhumbler (34) in Amoeba blattce. While the extrusion of the pseudopodium is an active process, the retraction requires nothing but the action of purely physical forces of surface-tension to explain it. The protoplasm then flows back into the body of the animal, and may present some character- istic appearances in doing so. If one surface is in contact with the substratum on which the animal is creeping, the adhesion of the pseudopodium often causes the tip to be drawn out into slender processes like spikes or hairs. At the same time the surface of the Fig. 20.—Diagram to show the protoplasmic currents in a limax- amceba which is moving forward in the direction indicated by the large arrow on the left. The smaller arrows indicate the direction, and their length the intensity, of the currents in different parts of the body. A forwardly-directed " fountain current " starts from near the hinder end, and passes along the axis of the body to the extremity anterior in movement; there it turns outwards and passes back along the sides of the body, diminishing rapidly in intensity, and finally dying out in the regions where the two dots are placed. After Rhumbler (34). pseudopodium may present a wrinkled appearance, as the viscid ectoplasm shrinks in consequence of the rapid withdrawal of the fluid endoplasm. The pseudopodia of difierent species of organisms, or even of the same species at different periods of the life-cycle, vary greatly in form, appearance, and structural characters, and the more im- portant variations require a special terminology. In the first place, the pseudopodia may be broad and thick relatively to their length, as in Amoeba proteus (Fig. 2) ; they are then termed " lobose " (" lobopodia "), and usually have a core of endoplasm. A typical lobose pseudopodium is, in fact, nothing more than an outgrowth of the body-protoplasm as a whole. In the most extreme cases of this type, the whole body flows forward in one direction, forming, as it were, a single pseudopodium. Such a mode of progression is characteristic of AfiK^ba Umax (Fig. 20) and other similar forms, in which the body glides forward like a slug as the animal creeps over substratum ; the end which is anterior in movement is rounded