THE NUCLEUS 85 forms a new blepharoplast from its centrosome, and subsequently a neAV flagellum; or the blepharoplast of the parent cell divides independently to form the blepharoplasts of the daughter-cells (Fig. 43). In this last type, the blepharoplast, though obviously a body of centrosomic nature, acquires a more or less complete independence of the definitive centrosome, and becomes a distinct cell-organ, permanent for at least a certain number of cell-genera- tions ; it may multiply and undergo various structural complica- tions, to be described presently. Fig. 42.—Stages in the division of Spongomonas uvella. A, Resting condition of the cell; two flagella arise, each from one of a pair of blepharoplasts (diplo- some); the nucleus contains a large karyosome, in which the centriole is lodged, and a few irregvdar grains of peripheral chromatin in the nuclear cavity. B, Early stage of mitosis; an achromatinic spindle is formed with the centrioles at the poles, one centriole (on the right) having already divided into two ; the chromatin, both peripheral and central, has united to form a dense equatorial plate in which separate chromosomes cannot be discerned ; the flagella have disappeared, together with their blepharoplasts. C, Similar stage in which the daughter-fiagella are growing out precociously from the centrioles, one on the left, two on the right. D, Later stage in which the equatorial plate has split into two daughter-plates, but no flagella have as yet grown out from the centrioles, of which there are two at each pole. E, Division of the nucleus nearly complete ; no flagella. F, Nucleus completely divided, daughter-nuclei in process of reconstruction ; from each a pair of blepharoplasts has been budded off, still connected by a centrodesmose with the centriole contained in the karyosome ; a pair of daughter-flagella has arisen from one pair of blepharoplasts, but not as yet from the other. After Hartmann and Chagas (62), magnification about 2,400. 3. In certain flagellates—for example, trypanosomes and allied forms (" Binucleata ")—the cell-body contains two nuclei, as already noted: a trophonucleus and a kmetonucleus. To what extent these nuclei are provided with centrosomes is at present a little doubtful ; probably this point is one which varies in different cases (compare Wenyon, 84). There are, however, three chief possi- bilities : (a) There may be but a single centrosome, that of the kinetonucleus, which acts both as blepharoplast and division-centre D C F