THE PROTOZOA 158 of the defects in the process of cell-division, some cells acquire more male properties, other more " female " ; the cells preponder- atmgly male show greater kinetic and motile energy, those that have more female qualities show greater trophic activity. With con - tinned cell-division these opposite tendencies tend to accumulate m certam cells which in consequence become altogether one-sided m their vital activities. Thus a want of balance m the vital functions is brought about, which may reach such a pitch that the organism is unable to continue to assimilate and reproduce, and must die unless the balance is resorted by syngamy with an individual that has become specialized in the opposite direction. By the union of two gametes differentiated in this manner, equilibrium is restored and the vital functions are rein vigor ated. No gametes, however, whatever their degree of specialization, are to be considered as perfectly unisexual, but only relatively so; a male gamete will always contain a certain amount of female substance, and a female gamete a certain amount of male substance, thus accounting for the possibility of partheno- genesis. Schaudinn's theory of sex is thus very similar to that developed by Weininger on purely psychological grounds. Schaudiim, whose work on Protozoa must secure full considera- tion for any statement of his observations, however inherently improbable the facts or the uiterpretations based upon them may seem, founded his theory chiefly on data alleged to have been observed by him in the development of Trypanosoma noctuce (Schau- dinn, 132). According to him, an " indifferent " ookinete might give rise either to male or female forms. In the formation of males, certain nuclear elements were separated out to become those of the daughter-cells, while certain other nuclear elements remained behind and degenerated together with a quantity of residual protoplasm. In the formation of females, the same two sets of nuclear structures were separated out, but those proper to the male sex degenerated, while those of the female sex, which were just those which degenerated in the formation of males, in this case persist and become the nucleus of the female gamete. Thus the indifferent ookinete was supposed to be really hermaphrodite, containing male and female elements mixed together, and giving rise to individuals of one or the other sex by persistence of one set of characters and atrophy of the other. It must be noted here that these observations of Schaudinn's are entirely unconfirmed, nothing similar having as yet been found by other investigators, either in trypanosomes or in any other Protozoa ; and further that, even if Schaudinn's observations be accepted as exact in every detail, they will not bear the interpretations which he places upon them— namely, that the small and large forms produced as he describes are males and females, since, as he himself admits, they do not,