THE PROTOZOA 128 of cytoplasm. Such unions are distinguished as plastogamy (or plasmogamv) from true syngaray. Plastogaraic union may be temporary or permanent • in the latter case It loads to the formation of plasmodia, as in the Mycetozoa (p. ^6J). iho signihcance of plastogamy is obscure in many cases but in some It may perhaps be comparable to the association of gametes'already described, and m this way may throw light on some cases of so-called autogamy" (see p. 138, infra). A further case of unions which are not in any way sexual in nature is seen m the remarkable phenomena of agglomeration exhibited by some Protozoa— for example, trypanosomes. In this case the organisms adhere to each other by the posterior or aflagellar end of the body, apparently by means of a sticky secretion formed by the kinetonuclous, so that large clumps are formed composed of numerous individuals. The phenomena of agglomeration are associated with conditions^unfavourable to the parasite, and appear to be due to the formation of special substances, agglutinins, in the blood of the host. Similar phenomena are well known in bacteria as agglutination, since in this case the agglutinated individuals are unable to separate, while in Fig. 70.—Precocious association and noogamy of gametocytes in gregarines. A, Diplocystis minor, parasite of the cricket: m., common membrane uniting the two associates ; g., grains of albuminoid reserve-material. B, Cijslohia liolothurice, parasite of Hdolhuria tuhiUosa, showing the two nuclei in an undivided body. A after Cucnot, magnified about 120 diameters ; B after Minchin. the case of trypanosomes that are agglomerated it is possible for the indi- viduals to become free again if the conditions are ameliorated. In other Protozoa, also, phenomena of the nature of agglomeration are seen in de- generating forms (see p. 209, infra). Certain aspects of syngamy must now be discussed in more detail—namely, the relation of s3Tigamy to the life-history as a whole ; its occurrence in the world of living beings ; its significance for the life-cycle ; and its effects on the species and the individual. 1. Syngamy in Relation to the Life-History, of the Organism.— In any living organism the principal manifestation of vital activity is the power of assimilation, resulting in growth. As a general rule, however, the growth of an organism is not indefinite, but has a specific limit; an mdividual of a given species does not exceed a certain size, which may be variable to a slight extent, but which is fairly constant for normal individuals of the species in question under similar environmental conditions. When the limit is