200 THE PROTOZOA of mucli investigation and discussion. The older view, which ascribed them to contractility and assumed a complicated structure in the protoplasm, has now been superseded generally by the theory connected more especially with the names of Quincke, Berthold, Biitschli (37), and Rhumbler (34, 35, 40, etc.), according to which differences of sm-face-tension are regarded as the efficient cause of the streaming movements of the pseudopodia and the protoplasm. The living substance is in a state of continual chemical change in every part; such changes are sufficient to account, in one way or another, for the origin of local differences in the physical nature (adhesion) of the surface of the body in contact with the surrounding medium, or of internal protoplasmic surfaces in contact with vacuoles or cavities filled with fluid ; and the resulting differences in surface-tension cause flowing movements both in the protoplasm and in the fluid with which it is in contact. The relation of such currents to the movements of pseudopodia has been discussed above (p. 47). Similar movements have been imitated artificiaUy by Biitschli and Rhumbler in a manner which can leave no doubt that the physical analogy is a reasonable interpretation of the mechanism of amcBboid movement. The close structural similarity between flagella and cilia on the one hand, and the axopodia on the other, makes it highly probable, to say the least, that the same explanation of the movement apphes to both. The axis of the vibratile organ is commonly regarded as a firm, elastic, form-determining structure; the more fluid sheath as the seat of the motile activity. Chemical differences set up in the limiting membrane, causing differences in the surface-tension of the sheath along certain hues, have been supposed to be responsible for a deformation of the sheath, bending the axis and the whole organ with it; with equalization and disappearance of such differ- ences, the elastic axis straightens itself again. How such chemical differences are set up remains to be explained ; possibly they origi- nate in chemical changes taking place explosively in the basal apparatus of the vibratfle organs; in any case it is clear that, as com- pared with pseudopodia, they act with extreme rapidity, and, further, that they are localized on the surface of the flagellum or ciHum. From the movements of these organs, the contraction appears to run a spiral course as a general rule—at least in ciHa (p. 54); flageUa, however, appear to be capable of various kinds of movements (p. 52). According to Prowazek (192), the flagellum of a trypanosome only retains its motility so long as it remains in connection with the kmetonucleus. Wer- bitzki (526), however, has succeeded in producing strams of trypanosomcs without kinetonuclei, and with apparently no resultmg loss of motility, it has been observed frequently that detached cilia or flagella contmuc to contract, for a time at least; and Schuberg (44) denies that the basal granules of the cilia function £^s centres of kinetic activity.