CHAPTER V 45 THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROTOZOA {Continued)— DIFFERENTIATIONS OF THE ECTOPLASM AND ENDOPLASM A. Ectoplasmic Organs. The various structures and organs produced from the ectoplasm are best classified by the functions they subserve, under the headings of protective, kinetic and locomotor, excretory, and sensory mechanisms. 1. The protective function of the ectoplasm is often seen in organisms m which no cuticle or envelope is present. It has been observed, for instance, that the species of Myxosporidia that iohabit the gall-bladders or urinary bladders of their hosts resist the effects of the medium in which they live so long as their ecto- plasm is intact, but succumb if it be injured. In most Protozoa other than those belonging to the class Sarco- dina, however, a special protective envelope or cortex is present at the surface of the body, and such forms are commonly said to be corticate. A cuticle may be formed in various ways, distinguished by the use of diiierent terms. It may represent the entire ecto- plasm, modified in its entirety to form an envelope, as in the perir plast of the FlageUata ; it may represent a transformation or modi- fication of only the most superficial layer of the ectoplasm, as in the pellicle of the Infusoria and of some amoebse—^for instance, Amceba verrucosa, the epicyte of the gregarines, etc. ; or it may arise as a secreted layer deposited at the surface of the ectoplasm, and not derived from a modification of the substance of the ectoplasm itself, in which case it is termed a " ceU-membrane." Whatever its mode of origin, the cuticle may be developed to a very variable degree, from the thinnest possible membrane, some- times very difficult to discover, to a thick and tough investment which may be termed a " cuirass " or " lorica " (" Panzer "), when it is formed by thickening of a pellicle ; or a " house " or " shell," when it is a greatly thickened cell-membrane standing off from the body. In many cases the cuticle undergoes local thickenings to form spikes or hooks, which may serve as organs of attachment, as in the epimerite of gregarines (Pig. 142).