THE PROTOZOA the Rhizopoda by showing that the soft body was a plasmodium contaming numerous nuclei and chromidia, and forming a pseudopodial network, but with no cell-differentiation or tissue- lormation. The body consists principally of a network of hollow tubes in which the Plasmodium is contained. The wall of the tubes con- sists of a hyahne organic substance resembling spongin. In the interspaces between the tubes great numbers of foreign bodies (" xenophya," Haeckel) are deposited, such as sand-grams, sponoe- spicules, Radiolarian skeletons, and so forth. In one family (StannomidcB) the xenophya are held together by a system of threads, " ImeUffi," in the form of smooth, refringent filaments, approxi- mately cyhndrical, which pass from one foreign body to another, and are attached to them by trumpet-like expansions of their ends. The substance of the hnellse is doubly ref ractile. and aUied to spongin in its chemical nature. Schulze compares them to the capiUitium of the Mycetozoa (see p. 241, infra). The protoplasmic body withm the tubes contains, in addition to nuclei and chromidia, enclosures of various kinds. Many tubes, distinguished by the darker colour of their walls, contain quantities of brown masses, apparently of faecal nature, and comparable to the stercome of the Foraminifera (p. 233). In other tubes, lighter in colour, there are found small, oval, strongly-refractile granules, or " granellse," which consist chiefly of barium sulphate. Schulze terms the system of stercome-contaiiiing tubes the " stercomarium," and those that contain granellse the " granellarium." The tubes of each system are distinguishable by their mode of branching, as well as by their colour and contents. In the tubes of the granel- larium the protoplasmic bodies are often found to contain isolated cells or groups of cells, each with a single nucleus, which are prob- ably stages in the formation of swarm-spores. Hence the sterco- marium probably represents the purely vegetative part of the body, in which the waste products of metabolism are deposited, while the granellarium is a differentiated region of the plasmodium in which the reproductive elements are produced. Nothing is known of the actual life-cycle of these organisms, but from the appearances already described, seen in preserved speci- mens, Schulze conjectures that they reproduce by formation of swarm-spores, much as is known to take place in the Foram- inifera. The affinities of the Xenophyophora are seen to be with the Foraminifera. In their habit of forming a skeleton of foreign bodies they resemble the arenaceous Foraminifera, in whicli* how- ever, the foreign bodies build up the house which directly encloses the soft body, while in the Xenophyophora the soft body is en-