THE PROTOZOA 202 The occurrence of a conducting nervous apparatus is more doubtful; it has been affirmed for Stentor by Neresheimer (p. 446), but is not confirmed by other observers. It can at least be asserted that in the more highly organized Ciliata a stimulus may lead to sudden movements in which difieront sets of contractile structures take a concerted part. The reactions of Protozoa to stimuli have been the subject of a great deal of experimental research by many investigators, amongst whom Verworn, Loeb, Jennings (165), and Piitter (199), deserve special mention. The results of these investigations can only be summarized briefly here. The various reactions are classified in the first instance, according to the nature of the stimulus, by the use of a terminology in which each principal category is deiloted by a word terminating in taxis, or in adjectival form—tactic. Thus we can distinguish—(a) Chemotaxis, or reactions to chemical stimuli; (&) Phototaxis, or reactions to fight; (c) Thermotaxis, or reactions to heat or cold ; {d) Barotaxis, or reactions to mechanical stimufi ; and (e) Galvanotaxis, or reactions to electrical stimufi. A given Protozoon may be quite unaffected by a particular stimulus ; or, on the other hand, it may be afiected by it in such a way that it tends to move towards the source of the stimulus {positive taxis) or away from it {negative taxis). The result depends, in many cases, on the intensity of the stimulus applied ; thus, a Euglena wiU move towards a moderate fight (positive phototaxis), but away from a too intense illumination (negative phototaxis). In each case an optimum condition exists, in which the positive taxis reaches its maximum. In such experiments the Cfiiata are the objects of choice, on account of the definite polarity of then: movements as compared with forms less highly organized, such as amoeba. In the Cifiata a negative taxis results in an "avoiding reaction" (Schreck- bewegung), in which the animal shrinks back with reversal of the cifiary movements, " tumuig towards a structuraUy-defined side, foUowed by a movement forward " (Jennings). Repeated experi- ■ ments have shown that the forms taken by the avoiding movements do not depend on the nature of the stimulus, but on the organization of the animal itself, and are always the same for a given species. An Oxytricha, for example, turns always to the right, whatever the direction from which the stimulus comes. The movement is deter- mined automaticaUy by the structure of the body. The same symptom can be caUed forth by the most diverse stimuh (Putter, 199). hTe various taxes may now be considered briefly : (a) Chemotaxis and Effects of ^^Mme^^.-This category in- cludes reactions to liquids or gases diffused in the water; reactions