THE H^MOFLAGELLATES AND ALLIED FORMS 281 invertebrates alternately are comprised in this genus. Trypano- some-forms also occur as developmental phases in the life-cycle of species parasitic solely in the digestive tracts of insects. 2. Trypanoplasma (Pigs. 36, 134), with two flagella arranged in a heteromastigote manner, and with the posterior trailing flagellum miited to the-body by an undulating membrane for the greater part of its length. A number of species are Icnown, which by their dis- tribution fall into three sections : (1) Species parasitic in the blood of fresh-water fishes, with alternating parasitism in the digestive tract of leeches ; (2) species parasitic in the digestive tract of marine fishes ; (3) species parasitic in various invertebrates. 3. Grithidia (Fig. 135), with a single flagellum which arises near the kinetonucleus, at about the middle of the body, in front of or close beside the trophonucleus, and runs along the pointed anterior end of the body to form the marginal flagellum of a relatively short, often rudimentary, undulating membrane, beyond which it is continued as a free flagellum. As an independent genus this type comprises species parasitic in the digestive tracts of various insects ; but the majority of the so-called species of Grithidia arc merely phases in the developmental cycle of trypanosomes. 4. Leptomonas {Herpetomonas — 'Figs. 124, 136), with a single flagellum arising at the anterior end of the body, and with no trace of an undulating membrane. As an independent generic type this form occurs as a parasite of invertebrates, chiefly insects ; secondarily also in the latex of plants (Euphorbiacese). It occurs also as a developmental form of the next genus in the invertebrate host or in cultures. 5. Leishmania (Fig. 138), with an oval body containing a tropho- nucleus and kmetonucleus, but with no flagellum. As a generic type this form is an intracellular parasite of a vertebrate host, multiplying there by fission and developing into a typical Lepto- monas-ioim. On the other hand, as a developmental phase this form represents simply a non-flageUated, resting stage which may occur m the life-cycle of either Trypanosoma, Grithidia, or Leptomonas. 6. Prowazekia (Fig. 141), with two flagella arranged in the hetero- mastigote manner, as in Trypanoplasma, but with the trailing flagellum quite free from the body, without an undulating mem- brane. Prowazekia is therefore quite similar in its morphology to Bodo, with which it was formerly confused, if, indeed, it is reaUy distinct, and it differs from Bodo only in the possession of a kineto- habitat" ^^''^^''^ '^'''''''^ described, free-living or intestinal in Considering the above six types as a whole from a morphological standpoint, it is seen that there are two types of structure amongst them-the cercomonad or monomastigote type, represented by