125 SMOTHERED FIGS. £ lb. cooking figs rind of \ a lemon i teacup of water 1 pint milk 14 ozs. cornflour 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 2 eggs vanilla essence \ oz. butter Wash the figs and cut them small, put them in a pan with the water and lemon rind, and stew for half-an-hour. Remove the lemon and pour into a greased pie dish. Boil the milk and brown sugar together and add the cornflour, which has been previously mixed in a little cold milk, and simmer gently five minutes. Separate the yolks from the eggs, beat them up and stir them in the cornflour, taking care it does not boil after they are added, put in a few drops of the essence and pour this over the figs. Beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth, stir in the castor sugar, pile this over all, and bake in a slow oven till firm. Remove from the oven, sprinkle coloured sugar over, and serve hot or cold. Best cold. For smothered prunes, proceed as above, but using prunes in the place of figs. TAPIOCA CREAM. 1£ oz. crushed tapioca l- gill of cream the rind of £ a lemon 4 yolks of eggs 1 quart of milk 1 bay leaf 2 ozs. sugar 2 ozs. red currant jelly a little wine jelly stewed fruit (cold) Put the milk, lemon rind, sugar, and bay leaf into a pan and let it come to the boil. Stir in the tapioca and cook gently half-an- hour. Remove the bay leaf and lemon and allow to cool a little. Whip the cream and add it carefully, then stir in the beaten yolks and cook five minutes, without boiling. Dilute the red currant jelly with a little wine jelly and pour a thin layer over the bottom of a border mould, allow to set, fill up with the cold cream mixture and let that set, turn out and fill the centre with the fruit and serve. CHOCOLATE CUSTARD CREAM. 1 pint milk i £ oz. gelatine 2 eggs 2 ozs. sugar 2 oz. chocolate or cocoa vanilla essence Boil together the milk and sugar, then add the chocolate which must be previously mixed with a little cold water, and the gelatine stir all together until dissolved, add the well beaten eggs and cook without boiling, until the cream thickens. Remove from the fire, add vanilla to taste, pour into a wet mould, and allow to set Turn out, and serve with cold custard poured around.