154 lhen have ready some apricot puree and chopped almonds which have been browned slightly by baking for a few minutes in the oven. Spread apricot puree with a brush round the sides of the cake and then dip each side into the chopped almonds. Spread coffee- flavoured butter cream on the top, and then with a forcing tube or a paper cornet write the word “ Mocha ” or “ Coffee ” with butter cream of a suitable colour. Put a bordering of butter cream round the top edges, which can be done by forcing the butter cream through a medium sized star shaped tube, and it will then be ready for serving. WALNUT CREAM CAKE. This is cut from genoise in exactly the same way as Coffee Cake. It is then split open and spread with plain or vanilla flavoured butter cream ; the sides are glazed over with apricot puree and then dipped in finely chopped walnuts. Then cover the top with either water icing or fondant icing. The fondant will give the best results. This should then have the top marked off into square divisions by forcing icing through a small plain tube. Put a shelled walnut in the middle of each square, decorate round the top edges with a small .star tube, and the cake is ready for serving. HORSESHOE GATEAU. This cake is made in the same way as Walnut Cream Cake, ■except that after the cake is sandwiched with butter cream there are no chopped nuts used. Instead, have ready a piece of almond paste ; shape this like a horseshoe and put it on top of the cake. Then entirety cover the horseshoe and top and sides of the cake with a coating of water icing or fondant icing. Decorate this suitably with a small plain tube, and when the sugar coating is dried the cake is ready for use. JAM PUFFS. Roll out a sheet of puff paste very thin. Stamp this out into rounds with a plain cutter four inches in diameter. Put half a teaspoonful of jam in the centre of each and then fold them ovei into a triangular shape, taking care to completely envelop the jam. Put them folded side downward on a baking sheet, nick them twice with a knife, eggwash each and sprinkle them with sugar, and bake in a very hot oven (425° F.) fifteen minutes.