158 RICH WINE BISCUITS or FINGERS. 1 lb. of flour ! 4 ozs. of sugar 4 ozs. of Cottolene ! 2 small eggs 4 ozs. of butter Place the flour on your table, make a hole in the centre, and place in here the Cottolene, butter and sugar. Mix these together and then add your two eggs. Proceed to make this into a nice firm paste, and dust it up with flour. Do not handle the mixing more than is necessary, so as to keep it short. Roll it out on the board until about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut out into various shapes with fancy cutters, or divide into strips or fingers by cutting with a sharp knife. Spread these on to a clean baking pan (free from all grease) and allow a little space between each biscuit. Bake in a moderate oven, and watch them very carefully as these goods bake quickly. VIENNA CAKES. Make short paste in the same manner as the last mixing by using the following :— 12 ozs. of flour j 3 ozs. of sugar 3 ozs. of Cottolene J 1 egg 3 ozs. of butter Roll this paste out to about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut out with a round crinkled cutter, so as the pieces will fit some crinkled shapes of about one inch wide at the bottom, tapering to two inches wide at the top. Place in your paste, shape it, and then place a very small spot of raspberry jam in the centre of each. Now place a spoonful of the following mixture in each cake. Well mix together until quite smooth and clear :— 1 lb. of flour 8 ozs. of butter 8 ozs. of Cottolene 5 ozs. of icing sugar When you have placed the spoonful in each cake, roughen the tops of this centre mixture with a fork. Bake in a moderate oven, and when cold dust each cake with fine sugar and serve. This recipe will make from 32 to 36 cakes. RICH QUEEN CAKES. 2 ozs. of Cottolene 2 ozs. of butter 3 eggs 4 ozs. of cleaned currants 4 ozs. of sugar 6 drops of essence of vanilla 6 ozs. of flour A pinch of baking powder Beat the Cottolene, butter, and sugar to a cream, taking in the eggs one at a time and beating well after each addition. Add the essence after the eggs. Take in the flour and fruit and make into a nice mixture. Spoon into well greased patty pans or fancy Oueen Cake shapes. Bake in a moderate oven.