28 thus aiding the cook in his efforts to produce the very best results. Until recently, the cook at sea was much handicapped, because only sweetened condensed milk was supplied to ships. Fussell & Co., Ltd., Monument Street, London, E.C., have now after many patient and scientific experiments, succeeded in producing an unsweetened condensed milk, well known as “ White Butterfly ” Brand, which can be used successfully in all cases where new milk was formerly required. When new milk is analysed, it is found to contain on an average the following substances :— Water .. .. .. .. .. 87 ■ Fat Casein Milk Sugar Mineral Substances Other Substances % % o/ /o O/ /o O/ /o o/ /o 100-0 Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk, “ White Butterfly ” Brand, contains all the above substances with only a large proportion of the water removed. When using Fussell’s Condensed Milk, it is only necessary to add the required quantity of cold or hot water, and a supply of new milk is ready at once. Sweetened condensed milks have many disadvantages. It is known that the average sweetened condensed milk, besides often having a large proportion of the valuable butter fat removed, is thickened and preserved with large quantities of sugar. Sweetened •condensed milk has between four and five pounds of cane sugar added per gallon. Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk has no sugar added. Therefore it naturally follows that Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk, “ White Butterfly ” Brand, is the cheapest to buy, as well as being the best, because every fifteen pounds of sweetened condensed milk is five pounds sugar (which is paid for at the price of milk, say 6d. per lb.), whereas Fussell’s Unsweetened Milk is all milk. The saving in cost is obvious. Again, sweetened condensed milk is useless for white soups, fricasses, and other savoury preparations, but Fussell’s Unsweetened Condensed Milk can be used for all purposes where fresh milk is required. As a good brand is essential, we recommend from practical ■experience that “ White Butterfly ” brand only is used. This brand has been more largely used than any other in the British Navy during the past seven years, and should our readers find any difficulty in procuring it, they are advised to write to Messrs. Fussell & Co., Ltd., 4, Monument Street, London, E.C.