132 COCOANUT BISCUITS. For the cocoanut mixture :— 4 ozs. butter 3 ozs. sugar \ lb. flour 2 yolks of eggs 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 2 whites of eggs 4 tablespoonfuls dessicated cocoa nut 4 crystallised cherry for each biscuit. For the Biscuits :— Cream the butter with the 3 ozs. sugar, beat in the yolks, and work in the flour until all is a paste. Roll out to | inch in thickness and stamp out with a round cutter into biscuits. Place them on a greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. For the Mixture:— Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, mix in the sugar and cocoanut, pile a teaspoonful of the mixture on each biscuit, stick a half cherry on the top, and re-bake in a slow oven until set crisp. LIGHT CAKES. £ lb. flour ^ pint tepid milk £ pint yeast 1 egg 4 oz. butter 1 saltspoonful salt Put the butter and milk together, beat the egg and add to the milk, put the flour and salt into a bowl, stir in the milk, egg, and yeast, until a smooth batter is formed, put the bowl into a warm place and allow to stand until the batter has risen to twice the bulk. Have ready a greased baking iron on top of the stove, pour the batter on it, in small quantities. When set, turn with a knife. Serve either buttered whilst hot or with syrup. MAIDS OF HONOUR. 4 lb. short paste 3 tablespoonfuls jam 2 eggs \\ tablespoonfuls sugar } tablespoonful butter 14 tablespoonfuls flour 4- tablespoonful ground rice 4 teaspoonful baking powder 2 or 3 drops almond essence Roll out the paste to f inch in thickness and line eighteen patty- tins with it, put a quarter teaspoonful of jam in the bottom of each. Beat the butter and half the sugar to a cream, add one egg and the remaining sugar, and beat them in well, then add the remaining egg and beat all together. Stir in the flour and rice, add the essence and baking powder last, and mix well. Put half a teaspoonful of the mixture in each patty tin. Have ready thirty-six strips of pastiy, and place over the mixture in the form of a cross on each cake, and bake in a moderate 'oven from ten to fifteen minutes.