149 MADEIRA CAKES. 2|- lbs. flour li lb. butter 1 lb. 10 ozs. sugar 2-h lbs. eggs i oz. baking powder 6 strips of citron peel Line six madeira cake tins with paper. Beat up the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat in the eggs two at a time, mix the flour and baking powder together and then add it to the egg and butter mixture and mix well. Divide this evenly among the 6 paper-lined tins. Put a strip of citron peel on the top of each and bake in a slow oven (350° F.) for one hour. EASTER BISCUITS. 2 lbs. flour 1 lb. butter 1 lb. sugar 3 eggs 1 oz. baking powder 6 ozs. currants J pint milk Rub the butter into the flour, add the baking powder and currants. Put the sugar, milk, and eggs together, and beat them up. Pour this into the flour and make it up into a dough. Roll this out to about one-eighth inch thickness and stamp it out with a 4-inch fluted cutter. Bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) about 10 minutes. MELTON BISCUITS. 1 lb. flour grated rind of 1 lemon 4 ozs. ground rice 4 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. dessicated cocoanut grated rind of 1 orange 4 eggs i- lb. butter 1 teaspoonful baking powder strips of lemon peel Mix the flour, rice, sugar, orange rind, lemon rind, and cocoanut together. Whisk up the eggs. Melt the butter and pour it into the flour, etc. Add the whisked eggs and mix all to a dough. Roll this out to about one-eighth inch in thickness and stamp it out into biscuits with a plain cutter 2 inches diameter. Put these on a baking sheet, stick a strip of lemon peel on each, and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) for ten minutes. BREAD. It is very easy to show a beginner how to make dough properly, but to explain on paper how to do it is an entirely different matter. Flours vary in strength and water-absorbing properties. Yeast varies in strength. The temperature of the air varies from day to day. If we had none of these differences it would be comparatively easy to give a recipe that would work out satisfactorily to everyone, but because of the above-mentioned variations it is only possible to