127 The reason why a mixture of ice and salt is used is because the salt has the effect of considerably lowering the temperature, and thus bringing about the proper freezing of the mixture. Put the freezing pot containing the mixture in the centre of the ice tub, see that tffe lid fits tightly, and then pack the crushed ice and salt closely all round, and fill it up to the edge. If you have not enough ice for this, roll up an empty sugar bag or piece of old sail cloth, and pack this well all round. When the mixture commences to thicken round the side of the freezer, scrape it down and mix it with the bulk of the mixture. Give the can a few turns, and repeat the scraping operation. When the cream begins to thicken evenly, give the mixture a thorough beating. Remember that the great secret of making successful ices is thoroughness in beating up the mixture. It should be very light and creamy when served. When the cream is sufficiently frozen, which can easily be discovered owing to the difficulty found in turning the handle, the freezer should be covered with an old blanket two or three times folded. This will have the effect of keeping the cold in because wool is an extremely bad heat conductor. If you have an ice box, the freezer containing the cream can be placed in this until it is time to serve. Iced puddings, or any ices that have been moulded, will easily slip out of the moulds if the}^ are allowed to stand for a little time after they have been removed from the ice. If it is necessary to turn them out very quickly, the mould should be covered with a cloth that has been soaked in hot water and wrung out nearly dry. To prevent an iced pudding from sliding about on the dish, spread a pat of butter on the dish and turn the ice out on it so that the butter is covered over. COFFEE ICE CREAM. 1 quart milk 4 eggs 4 yolks of eggs 1 lb. sugar 2 tablespoonfuls coffee essence 6 drops vanilla essence Put the milk and sugar into a pan and bring to the boil. Whisk up the eggs and yolks until very light, pour the boiling milk over these and mix well. Return this to the pan and stir it over the fire until it thickens. It must not boil. Strain this and allow to cool; when cool, add the coffee essence and vanilla essence. Put this into the freezer and freeze it in the usual way. TEA ICE CREAM. 1 his is made exactly in the same way as Coffee Ice Cream, but substituting half a pint of very strong tea in the place of coffee essence, and also omitting the vanilla essence. i