23 A good way to boil fish when it is too large for the fish kettle, or when you want to serve it out in equal proportions, is the following. After cleansing the fish, cut it into portions of the required size, have ready the pan half filled with boiling water in which salt has been added in the proportion of two ounces to the gallon. Put the portions of fish into this, bring the water up to boiling point again, then draw the pan aside to prevent it boiling any further and allow the fish to remain for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then remove the fish and serve. You may think that by cooking fish in this way a lot of the nourishment will be lost in the water, but this is not so. Fish contains among other things, a large amount of albumen. The heat causes coagulation of this albumen in the same way as it does in eggs. Therefore, when the fish is put into boiling water the albumen on its surface forms a casing through which the juices cannot escape into the water. The salt which has been added to the water assists in hardening this casing. If the water is allowed to boil, the bubbling will cause the fish to break into flakes or become ‘ woolly,’ but if it is brought to boiling point as directed and no more, the heat will be quite sufficient to ■cook the fish. When frying fish, take care to have enough fat smoking hot to completely cover the fish. The reasons for this are given in the directions for frying. Baked fish is one of the simplest ways of cooking, but not often practiced. A number of recipes are given in this book in which the fish is baked in the oven. This way of cook- ing fish will commend itself upon trial. All fish, whether baked, broiled, fried, or boiled, should be sprinkled with lemon juice before cooking. This has the effect of flavouring and bleaching the fish. FRYING.—To fry anything properly, and to the greatest advantage in flavour, economy, and appearance, you must have sufficient smoking hot fat to completely cover the article which is to be fried. This may appear on the face of it to be wrong, owing to the amount of dripping or lard it will require to cover the article, but it is not so. The method most commonly adopted is to put into a frying pan barely enough dripping to cover the bottom, and then to proceed with the frying of whatever is required. When finished, a propor- tion of the fat is left in the pan, but it is so discoloured and in other ways unfit for further use that it has to be thrown away. Now with sufficient fat to completely cover the article, if properly heated, the fat can be used again and again. As an example, suppose you want to fry some fish. Have ready a deep pan half filled with fat, clean dripping or suet is the best, but lard or olive oil may be used