139 AMERICAN GINGERBREAD (Very Rich). 4 lb. butter 4 lb. flour 3 ozs. brown sugar 3 ozs. treacle 4 ozs. chopped candied peel rinds of 1 orange and 1 lemon 2 ozs. chopped almonds 14 ozs. dessicated cocoanut 3 ozs. preserved ginger 4 oz. powdered ginger 2 ozs. ground rice 4 teaspoonful vanilla essence- 4 teaspoonful baking powder 3 eggs 4 wineglass rum Put the ground rice, cocoanut, flour, and chopped almonds in- separate tins and bake them in a cool oven until they brown slightly. Line a baking tin with greased paper. Put the butter and sugar into a bowl and beat them up together for ten minutes, or until creamy. Then beat in the eggs, one at a time, add the peel, lemon and orange rinds, almonds, cocoanut, preserved and powdered gingers, essence, ground rice, and rum, and mix well. Then add the flour and baking powder and mix them in. Lay this mixture one inch thick in the paper lined baking tin, sprinkle the top thickly with dessicated cocoanut or chopped almonds, and bake in a slow oven for one hour. Allow the gingerbread to cool in the baking tin when removed from the oven. Cut into blocks of suitable size, and it is ready for the table. TRANSPARENT GINGERBREAD. 1 lb. flour 1 lb. treacle 4 lb. butter 4 lb. crushed loaf sugar 4 oz. ground ginger Mix together the flour, ginger, and sugar, melt the butter and pour it and the treacle together into the flour, mix well together, and drop a dessertspoonful at a time on a very clean greased baking tin. Allow three inches space between each.' Bake in a moderate oven ten minutes. ORMSKIRK GINGERBREAD. 1 lb. flour 4 lb. butter f- lb. brown sugar 4 lb. treacle 1 oz. ground ginger 1 teaspoonful baking powder The grated rind and juice of 1 lemon Put the flout into a bowl, add the butter, and rub all together as if for shoit paste. Mix in the sugar, ginger, and baking powder, then mix all to a paste with the lemon juice and rind, and the treacle. Roll this out on a floured board until only one-eighth inch thick. Cut out with a round cutter, or a wineglass will do. Put these on a baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. I