153 fork to prevent them blistering, allow them to rise again to about one inch in thickness, then bake in the bottom of a hot oven ioi ten minutes. ^ , , ,. The above are sometimes called Batch Cakes and sometimes Johnny Cakes. UNFERMENTED BREAD. 3-5- lbs. flour j I lb. baking powder 15 pints cold water j H ozs- sa^ Mix together the flour and baking powder, dissolve the salt in the water, add the water to the flour and knead thoroughly. Divide the dough into five equal parts, mould them into the required shape, place these upon a baking sheet and bake in a sharp oven (425°F.) for 30 minutes. It is not advisable to bake unfermented bread in square bread tins. A better result is always obtained when these loaves are baked on a baking sheet. CHERRY CAKE. l-j- lbs. butter If- lbs. sugar 12 eggs 2 lbs. flour 2 lbs. crystallised cherries 1, teaspoonful baking powder I- pint milk 2 ozs. ground almonds Have ready a paper lined baking tin which has an edge about two- inches high ; of course this mixture can be divided into two or more tins according to requirements. The oven should be slow (350° F.). Have all the ingredients ready weighed out, and put the baking powder into the flour ; have the eggs ready broken ; then beat the butter and sugar together until creamy ; beat in the eggs two at a time, add the almonds and cherries, mix well, and then add the flour, powder, and milk and mix all thoroughly together. Put this mixture into the paper lined tin and bake for about one hour. The almonds are not essential to this cake, but are added because they materially retard the tendency, which the cherries have,, of sinking down to the bottom of the cake while it is baking. COFFEE CAKE. This cake is made from Genoa Cake, which must be at least one day old to allow for cutting nicely. It is usual to cut the genoise into blocks about 4 or 6 inches square. Split this open and spread the bottom slice thickly with butter cream which has been flavoured with coffee essence ; put the top slice on again and press it down slightly to make sure that it will hold. The cake will then be like a sandwich in appearance.