40 clear, stiain through a clean cloth, re-heat and colour slightly, and serve. A teaspoonful of grated cheese added before serving is an improvement, but not cared for by everyone. 3 quarts stock 4 onions six apples 3 whites of eggs 1 leek CLEAR MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 1 teaspoonful mustard, or 1 tablespoonful mustard seed 4 tablespoonfuls curry powder \ tablespoonful salt juice of 1 lemon Put all the ingredients in a stewpan except the whites of eggs and lemon juice, and boil for two hours. Clarify with the whites of eggs, strain through a clean cloth, add the lemon juice, and serve with small pieces of cooked chicken and boiled rice ; the chicken in the soup and the rice separately. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP, THICK. 2 quarts chicken stock a little cold remains of fowl 12 forcemeat balls 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour 2 tablespoonfuls curry powder pepper and salt Put the butter in a pan, stir in the flour until browned, stir in the curry powder, add the stock. Chop the pieces of chicken small and add to the soup. Season to taste and simmer for thirty minutes. Put the forcemeat balls (see recipe, Forcemeat Balls) into the soup tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Boiled rice should be handed round with this soup. CELERY SOUP. 2 heads celery (white stalks only) -J- pint milk 1 quart stock 1 large Spanish onion pepper 1 bay leaf 1 tablespoonful cornflour, 1 blade of mace salt Wash the celery thoroughly and cut it into inch lengths. Peel and chop the onion. Put both into a pan with just enough water to cover them and stew gently for two hours, or until very tender. Rub all through a hair sieve, as wire tends to discolour the celery. Put the puree into a pan, with the stock, milk, bay leaf, mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix the cornflour with a little cold, water, and just before it boils add to the soup. Stir all one way until it thickens, simmer for five minutes, and serve with sippets of fried bread. If desired rich, stir into the soup £ pint of whipped cream just before serving.