82 MUTTON AND POTATO PEE. 2 lbs. mutton 1 lb. potatoes 1 onion cold water 1 tablespoonful Hour 1 teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper suet or rough puff paste Cut the mutton into two inch lengths, trim off the fat. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt together, and roll the mutton in it Chop the onion. Have the potatoes peeled and cut into slices Put layers of mutton and potato alternately in a pie dish, sprinkle the onion between the layers, have the mutton a little higher in the middle than at the sides of the dish, three parts fill with cold water. Cover with paste and bake in a quick oven to cook the paste, and afterwards in a moderate oven for one hour to cook the mutton, taking care to see that the ventilator on the pie crust is open all the time. MUTTON PUDDING. 1|- lbs. lean mutton 1 small onion -J- teaspoonful salt d teaspoonful pepper suet paste 1 tablespoonful flour Line a pudding basin with suet paste in the same way as for Preserved Meat Pudding. Cut the mutton into small lumps, peel and chop the onion, mix together the flour, pepper, and salt. Roll the mutton in the flour, put a layer in the pudding basin, sprinkle with chopped onion, and continue in this way until the mould is-d full. Half fill with cold water, cover with paste, then cover with greased paper, steam for three and a half hours, turn out, and serve.. MUTTON HASH. 1 lb. mutton 1 onion 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 pint water pepper and salt to taste Peel and chop the onion, cut the mutton into four inch lengths, fry them a light brown. Put the dripping into a pan, when hot stir in the flour until brown, add the water, onion, mutton, and peppei and salt. Simmer for forty minutes, serve garnished with parsley.. GALANTINE OF VEAL. a few truffles mushrooms pistachio nuts and gherkins breast or flank of veal, weight about 4 lbs. 2 lbs. sausage meat \ lb. cooked ox tongue If breast is used, bone it and flatten out. Season the sausage meat highly with herbs and spread a thick layer over the vea -