124 milk 01 water. Pour this slowly into the pan of simmering milk and stir round until it thickens. Allow to simmer for three minutes. Remove the pan from the fire and stir in the essence. Put the cochineal into a clean basin, pour into this the amount of blanc mange you require colouring, and mix well. Empty the water out of the mould, pour in the coloured blanc mange, then immediately poui the white cai'efully on the top, so as not to mix the colours. Allow to go cold, to set firm. Turn it out on a glass dish, and serve with jam or cold stewed fruit. Note.—Boiling coffee or cocoa may be used for coffee blanc mange or chocolate blanc mange if cochineal is not handy. BANANA GATEAU. For the Jelly :— Melt together the juice of four oranges, 3 sheets gelatine, 8 lumps of sugar, J pint water, strain and allow to cool, but not set. 1 plain sponge cake 1 lb. weight 1 wineglassful sherry 6 bananas pint apricot glaze i pint cream a little cochineal Cut a slice off the top of the cake and take a circular lump out of the centre. Rub the bananas through a sieve and mix a half of this with 2 tablespoonfuls of the above jelly and 1 tablespoonful of cream, and pour this inside the cake. Put the top slice back again and sprinkle over the sherry, brush over with the apricot glaze. Sweeten half the cream and whip it up, colour slightly with cochineal, Put the whipped cream in a forcing bag and decorate the cake with it. Add the remaining cream and jelly to the remainder of the banana, whip these together, and put it into the dish around the cake. PLAIN BLANC MANGE. 1 pint milk 2 tablespoonfuls cornflour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar £ teaspoonful butter lemon vanilla or almond essence Boil together the milk, sugar, and butter, mix the cornflour with half a cup of cold water, pour it gradually into the milk, stirring all the time, draw the pan to a cool part of the stove and allow the cornflour to cook for five minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, add about ten drops of essence, stir it in, pour all into a wet mould, allow to stand until quite cold, and set, then turn it out into a glass ; dish, pour cold stewed fruit around, and serve.