33 been burst, and with careful and gradual warming, the yeast will recommence growing. Therefore, it is best to keep yeast cool when not required, and if you want it to keep for a long time it must be placed in the icehouse, should you be fortunate enough to have one. It sometimes happens when at sea that your yeast has turned sour. To avoid sour yeast it is advisable to make up no more than the quantity required for the amount of bread you are making up. Always retain a little of the old yeast to start the fermentation of the next lot, and continue doing so for the whole voyage through It may happen that the yeast which you have retained will turn sour. It will certainly do so in the course of a day or two if you keep it in a warm place. The cause of this sourness is principally lack of food (sugar) for the yeast, literally amounting to starvation. It then becomes weaker, and in its weak state falls an easy prey to other germs called “lactic” and “butyric.” Sometimes, in extreme cases, the acetic germ is also present. Lactic acid germs are the cause of sourness in milk. Butyric acid germs are the cause of the bad smell in very sour milk. Acetic acid germs are added to beer to make vinegar. All these germs will thrive in yeast, under certain conditions. If there is a sourness apparent in the yeast, strengthen it by making up a fresh quantity of yeast liquor (see recipes for yeast), add this to the yeast, and it will overcome the sourness, in fact, the acid germs will in their turn become prey to the yeast germ. If it be your misfortune to have all the yeast washed overboard ■during bad weather, so that you have absolutely none to start the fermentation of a fresh lot, do not be discouraged, but make up a fresh lot of yeast liquid as per one of the recipes given, but with the addition of wort. Stand this in a warm place without a cover and near or on the place where you have usually made the bread. In the course of a few days, fermentation will- be observed. It being known that fermentation could be obtained in this way gave rise to the impression that fermentation was spontaneous. It has been proved that fermentation is not spontaneous, but caused by the yeast germ which is in the air, especially in towns, but more especially near any place where bread is made, and when even one settles in a place favourable to its growth it will multiply enormously. You will be able to grasp this fact better from the calculated increase of one in twenty-four hours, which has already been noted. Yeast will keep for a long time if dried and kept dry. To avoid the inconvenience and delay that an accident might cause, in obtaining fresh yeast, the cook should make a supply of dried yeast for himself and keep it in readiness to start a fresh lot. Either of the following ways of drying are reliable.