92 STUFFED TURNIPS. 6 medium sized white turnips salt and pepper i lb. sausage £ pint white sauce Peel and wash the turnips, cut a slice off the bottom so that they will stand upright, scoop out the centre. Take the sausage meat from the skins and fill the cavity cut out of each turnip with the meat and put them to steam for one hour. Dish up on a flat dish, pour the white sauce completely over them, garnish with sliced tomatoes and parsley, and serve hot. RISSOLES 1 lb. lean cooked beef £ lb. soaked bread i teaspoonful pepper f- teaspoonful salt OF BEEF. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs 1 egg Mince the meat finely. Squeeze the bread dry and add to the meat. Add the remaining ingredients and work all thoroughly together. Make the mixture into small cakes, brush all over with egg wash, cover with bread crumbs, and fry a nice brown in deep hot fat. Serve with brown gravy. BEEF CROQUETTES. Proceed as above, but omitting the parsley, and adding a pinch .of spice. Shape into rolls, or like corks, fry, and serve hot. HAMBURGHER STEAKS. i lb. lean raw pork l- lb. lean raw beef 1 dessertspoonful minced onion 1 teaspoonful thyme 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley % teaspoonful salt $ teaspoonful pepper 1 egg pinch of mixed spice suspicion of nutmeg -J- pint brown gravy Pass the beef and pork twice through a mincing machine, mix in thoroughly the remaining ingredients. Shape the mixture into • cakes, put them into a baking tin containing a little hot dripping. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven, taking care to baste occasional!}'. Serve hot with the brown gravy separate. RAISED VEAL AND HAM PIES. 1 lb. veal salt £ lb. ham pepper and cayenne to taste 1 hard boiled egg j 1 lb. hot water paste Mince the veal and ham, slice the egg, add above seasonings to taste, and mix all together. Have ready a greased raised pie mould, Roll out the paste and line the mould evenly, fill with the veal and ham mixture, cover top all over with paste, ventilate, and bake in a moderate oven two hours. Remove the pie from the mould whilst warm, and serve either hot or cold.