102 to a paste and tuin it out to cool. Cut the parboiled potatoes into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Spread a little of the paste on one slice and cover with a second in the form of a sandwich. Dip these into batter and fry in deep hot fat until crisp. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. FORCED 6 medium sized onions 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful thyme 2 ozs. minced fat bacon ONIONS. pepper salt cayenne 1 egg Peel the onions, cut a slice from the bottom to make them stand upright, scoop out from the top one dessertspoonful of each of the onions. Mix the crumbs, parsley, thyme, bacon, and egg together, season to taste. Fill the cavities of the onions with this mixture and place the onions in a baking tin containing a little hot fat, and bake for one hour. Dish up, and serve with gravy. Or the onions, when filled, may be steamed for one hour, and served with white sauce. CAULIFLOWER, BOILED. Cut away unnecessary leaves and stalk, put the cauliflower head downwards into salted water or vinegar and water, to draw out any insects, and allow to remain for half an hour. Have ready a pan containing sufficient boiling salted water to cover the cauliflower, plunge it in and allow to boil twenty minutes, or until tender. When done, turn it out carefully and drain well. Dish up, pour over enough white sauce to completely cover, and serve at once. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. Prepare and boil a cauliflower as above. Make half pint white sauce, stir into it 1 tablespoonful grated cheese, and allow to simmer five minutes. Put in the drained cauliflower and simmer very gently for ten minutes. Put the cauliflower into a hot dish, sprinkle it with grated cheese, pour over the sauce, sprinkle the top with 1 tablespoonful brown bread crumbs, and serve. BAKED POTATOES. To bake potatoes in their skins, scrub them until quite clean, cut a small piece out of one end, and bake in a hot oven until soft. When baking potatoes with beef or mutton, peel and wash them, cut them in halves lengthwise, and place them round the joint in the oven until browned and soft.