140 1 oz. sugar 2 ozs. flour TEA CAKES. Make a ferment of :— £ pint water at 100° F. £ pint milk at 100° F. 1£ ozs. compressed yeast Put this aside in a warm place until it rises and falls again. This should take place in about thirty minutes. While the ferment is working get ready the following mixture 6 ozs. lard 2 lbs. flour £ oz. salt £ lb. sugar eggs Rub the lard into the flour and add the salt. When the ferment has fallen, add to it the eggs and sugar and beat them up. Pour this into the flour and mix all to a dough. Give it a very thorough kneading to ensure having a bulky tea cake, and then cover over with a cloth and put it in a warm place to rise. This will take about an hour. When it has risen, divide the dough into pieces about 3 ozs. •each, mould these up, and then roll them out into cakes about four inches diameter. Put these on a warm, greased baking sheet so that they do not touch each other, allow them to rise, and then brush them over with eggwash and bake in a very hot oven (450° F.) about ten minutes. SALLY LUNNS. Sally Lunns are made in the same way as tea cakes, but with the addition of lb. currants to the foregoing recipe. Weigh off the •dough into 9 ozs. pieces, and when moulded, put these into round cake tins, allow them to rise, then bake for half an hour. COFFEE BUNS. These are made in exactly the same way as Italian buns, with the difference in flavour obtained by using lemon curd instead of almond paste in the centre. In this case the lemon curd is put into the hollow in the centre of the buns after they are baked. These buns are eminently suitable for serving with the morning coffee. SWISS BUNS. These are made from the same mixture, or dough, as the Tea Cakes, the only difference being their size and shape, and the fact that they are finished off with water icing on top. To make the Swiss Buns, have ready the dough as directed in Tea Cakes, divide it into pieces 2 ozs. each, mould these up into finger-shaped rolls about four inches long ; place these side by side, but only just barely touching each other, on a warm greased baking sheet, and allow them to rise until very light. Bake in a hot oven .(425° F.) about fifteen minutes.