118 BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. J lb. stale bread 2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 pint milk 1 egg 3 tablespoonfuls sugar grated rind of one lemon 2 tablespoonfuls cleaned currants Cut the bread into slices, and put them in layers in a pie dish. Put small pats of butter between each layer, and also a sprinkling of lemon iind. Spread the currants beneath the top layer, beat together the egg, milk, and sugar, pour it over the bread, and allow to stand for twenty minutes to soak. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake for thirty minutes. Serve at once. IVIANESTY PUDDING. \ lb. flour £ lb. bread crumbs 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet 3 tablespoonfuls currants 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 piece candied peel, chopped small grated rind of } a lemon 2 teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda 1 teaspoonful baking powder Mix together all the above ingredients, add half pint water, stir thoroughly, pour into a well greased mould, cover and steam for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. VANILLA SOUFLE. 4 eggs j £ pint of milk 1£ oz. butter 1 l dessertspoonful castor sugar 1 oz. flour j i teaspoonful vanilla essence pinch of salt Butter a pint and a half soufle tin, tie a band of paper round which comes two inches above the top. Melt one ounce of butter, add the flour, and mix well, then add the milk and sugar, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Remove from the fire and add, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs, beating all well together. Beat the four whites to a stiff froth and stir lightly in the mixture, add the salt and essence, pour into the buttered tin, and steam twenty- five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve immediately with custard poured around. BAKED CUSTARD. -} pint mixed condensed milk a little nutmeg 2 eggs J teaspoonful butter 1 teaspoonful sugar Break the eggs into a bowl, beat them up, beat in the sugar and cold milk, pour into a pie dish, put the butter and a dusting of grated nutmeg on top, place in a slow oven, and bake until set. Custard must not be allowed to boil or it will curdle.