146 CONGRESS TARTS. i lb. line sugar 5 ozs. ground almonds \ pint whites of eggs 1 lb. of either puff or short paste Line 3 dozen patty tins with the paste, beat the sugar and whites of eggs together, add the ground almonds, and mix thoroughly. Half-fill the lined patty tins with this mixture, put ciossed stiips of paste on the top of each, and bake in a slow oven (350° F.) for 45 minutes. The above may be made with cocoanut flavour by substituting T dessicated cocoanut in the place of the 5 ozs. ground almonds. TARTLETS. Line the number of patty tins required with a good short paste. Half-fill these with jam and bake in the bottom of a hot oven (425° F.) about ten minutes. The tarts will usually be found sufficiently baked when the jam has commenced to boil as they are in the oven. CREAM CAKES AND ECLAIRS. 2 pint water I 10 ozs. flour 6 ozs. butter I 10 eggs Put the water and butter together into a pan and bring them up to the boil. Sift the flour and put this all at once into the boiling water and stir round with a wooden spoon until the mixture leaves the pan sides quite clean. Remove the pan from the fire and beat the eggs thoroughly into the mixture two at a time. Cream buns are made by taking a dessertspoonful at a time of this mixture and putting it upon a slightly greased baking sheet. When filled the baking sheet should be covered over by turning another tin the same size upside down over it and then baking in a very hot oven (450° F.) about 25 minutes. The covering tin must not be removed to see how the buns are baking or they will collapse. When baked, make an incision in the side of the cakes and fill them either with whipped cream or cake filling. Eclairs are made from the same mixing as the above, but they are put on the baking sheet in various shapes. This is done by putting the mixture in a forcing bag and forcing the mixture out into the required shape. They are baked and filled with cream as directed above, but they should be finished off by brushing over the tops with apricot puree and then dipping them in various coloured fondant icings.