150 give the diiections plainly, and trust to the natural intelligence of the cook 01 baker to adapt them to his own particular requirements. The exact proportion of salt that must be used is 2 lbs. for every 100 lbs. of flour being used. The average amount of water to use is one half the weight of the flour. A gallon of water weighs 10 lbs. Assuming that you are going to make up a batch of dough from 50 lbs. of flour, you will require in addition 25 lbs. of water = 2i gallons, 1 lb. of salt, and yeast. Here another difficulty arises when trying to explain, because the strength and vigour of yeast varies considerably. For the sake of clear explanation we will assume that 1 quart of liquid yeast is equal to one ounce of compressed yeast in its power to raise dough. On this assumption you will require to use 1 gallon of liquid yeast = 4 ozs. of compressed yeast. This will necessitate a reduction of 1 gallon of water. Now have the flour, if it is at all lumpy, sifted into the dough trough ; the sifting will materially assist the yeast action, besides removing all extraneous matter from the flour. If the weather is very cold, and the flour is kept stored in a cold place, have this sifting done in the warm bakers’ shop or galley an hour or two before making up the dough, so that the flour will become a bit warmer, or about 60° F. Have the water at 120° F. Dissolve the salt in the water and pour this into a hollow made in the middle of the flour, then mix in enough of the flour to make a batter mixture. This will have the effect of lowering the temperature of the water, and thus avoiding the risk of scalding the yeast, which can then be added. Now work the whole mixture of flour, yeast, salt, and water together, by working the flour from the sides into the centre, and then knead it thoroughly. Do not add more flour excepting just an occasional dusting when it is required to free the hands from the dough, and continue to work and knead the dough until it leaves the trough sides quite clean and has no tendency to stickiness. Now cover this over so that the dough will not become chilled, and allow it to rise until it is about twice the bulk that it was when first kneaded. The time this takes will largely depend upon the vigour of the yeast and the temperature at which the dough is kept. We will assume the time taken to rise is four hours. Give the dough a thorough second kneading, and then divide it into pieces of the required size. It will take 1 lb. 1 oz. of dough to give a 1 lb. loaf, and larger loaves must have the dough weighed out into proportionate quantities. Have the bread tins lightly greased, but not thickly daubed with fat, and see that the tins are just warm. Now mould up the pieces of dough and put them with the creased side downwards into the bread tins. If you are putting a number of small loaves on one