32 is well, but if the yeast should be poor, even the very best flour is likely to be spoiled. A thorough knowledge of the power and peculiarities of yeast will prove helpful to many, and I will deal fairly thoroughly with this subject. To commence at the beginning, the origin of fermentation is obtained by moistening barley in warm water. The barley is then kept moist in a warm room until it begins to throw out two shoots, in other words, it commences to grow. The barley is then thoroughly dried and crushed. It is this sprouted, dried, and crushed barley which we call by the name of malt. The malt is put into warm water and allowed to soak for some hours, and then strained off. A sweet liquid is thus obtained which is called wort. If this liquid is allowed to stand for some time it will putrify, but if a little yeast is added to the wort and it is kept in a warm place it ferments. After fermentation the sweetness has disappeared. It was known several centuries ago that the cause of the sweetness having gone was due to a chemical change that took place during fermentation, and that one result of the change was a product which we call alcohol. This name is derived from the Arabic words A1 Kohol, meaning “ the burning liquid.” It was centuries later before the bubbling that accompanies fermentation, which had up to that time been believed to be air, was found to be a gas. This is called carbonic acid gas. After careful experiments it was found that the sugar present in wort was divided during fermentation practi- cally in halves. One half being carbonic acid gas, the other alcohol. Fermentation was believed to be just simply decay, but it has now been proved that fermentation can only be brought about by yeast. Yeast, as seen under the microscope, is in the form of cells which are circular in shape. It is a living germ, but it cannot move about from place to place, like an insect. Its power of movement is confined to growth only, like a blade of grass, or a plant of any kind. Yeast is therefore a plant of the lower orders. It requires air, but not light, to sustain life, it also requires warmth for favour- able growth, and it flourishes in a temperature of about 80° F. It has been proved that a single yeast germ, given favourable conditions, will multiply in twenty-four hours to considerably over sixteen and a half millions. Too great a warmth, or heat at 95° F., will make yeast ferment quickly, but this heat will also weaken its power. If heat is increased to 140° F. or more than that, the yeast is destroyed. On the other hand, if we keep yeast in a cold place it will retard growth. The lower the temperature the slower will yeast grow, until the temperature is lowered to 50° F., when the growth will stop, but it will recommence upon the temperature being raised. Actual freezing will not kill yeast, providing the yeast cells have not