71 BEEF 1 lb. shin beef 1 bay leaf 2 cloves -J- teaspoonful thyme \ teaspoonful marjoram BRAWN. 1 small onion i teaspoonful peppercorns salt to taste J lb. all fat bacon Cut the beef into half-inch dice, remove the fat, put the meat into a pan with enough cold water to just cover it, allow to boil, remove the scum. Tie the herbs, onion, and seasonings in a piece of clean cloth, put it into the pan, and allow to simmer gently for five hours. Cut the bacon into small dice, stir it in thirty minutes before the beef is done. Pour into a mould, remove the seasonings, allow to go quite cold and set firm, turn out and serve. Use a very sharp knife when slicing the brawn. In warm weather it will be necessary to add ^ oz. gelatine to ensure being firm enough to cut. DEVILLED BEEF. 1 lb. beef 1 dessertspoonful flour 1 teaspoonful made mustard 1 tablespoonful Yorkshire Relish 1 oz. butter j- pint water 1 teaspoonful vinegar 1 lump of sugar 1 saltspoonful pepper salt to taste Cut the beef into thin slices, if salt, scald them, if fresh, fry them brown. Put the butter into a pan, when melted, stir in the flour until slightly browned, add the water and stir until it boils, then add the vinegar and all the other ingredients except mustard, which must be stirred in five minutes before dishing up. Simmer for thirty minutes. BOWLING HASH. 1 lb. cooked salt beef or pork 1 lb. potatoes 1 small onion 1 pint water 2 cloves pinch of cayenne 1 tablespoonful dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 saltspoonful mixed herbs pepper and salt if necessary Peel and wash the potatoes, trim off the fat and gristle from the meat and cut both potatoes and meat into small cubes or dice. Chop the onion fine, put the dripping into a pan, and when melted and a blue vapour rising from it, stir in the flour until it becomes a rich brown, then add the water, onion, potatoes and meat, mixed herbs and cloves, season to taste, simmer twenty-five minutes. Do not stir with a spoon after adding the potatoes or they will be broken. Throw out the cloves, pile the meat and potatoes on a dish, pour the gravy round and serve.