87 FRIED STEAK. Steak may be fried in either one of two ways. For small quantities, where a quick service is required, it is perhaps more suitable to have the steak cut into the portions as wanted, ready for frying, and all ready seasoned with salt and pepper. Have a pan of deep fat smoking hot on the stove, and as the orders are received, plunge the steak into the fat. The length of time required for cooking is entirely dependant upon the thickness of the steak and also as to whether it is required underdone, “ just ” done, or well done, according to individual taste. Close observation and a little practice will soon tell the cook how long the steak should be permitted to remain in the frying fat. An underdone steak when pressed with the back of a spoon, will feel spongy, but not flabby, and when cut it should show red in the centre, but it should have none of the slatey blue appearance due to rawness. A “ just ” done steak should feel firm when pressed, and it should have just a slightly red tinge in the centre after it has been cut. A well done steak should feel quite firm, but not leathery, when pressed ; and when it is cut, the inside should have a greyish appearance. It is advisable to have a pan of hot beef gravy always ready when serving steaks in the above manner. The second method of frying is by means of the ordinary frying pan. The quantity that may be fried at one time is only limited by the size of the pan and the amount of stove accommodation, etc. For this method a little fat is put into the pan (enough to cover the bottom), and when it is smoking hot the steak must be put into the pan. Allow this to fry until nicely browned on the underside, and then turn the steak. The turning must be done without sticking a fork in the steak. It is only permissible to stick the fork in the fat of the steak, if there is any, but never in the lean, and therefore a pair of steak tongs should be used for turning it with. When the steak is done as required, it should be removed from the pan to a hot dish. Pour away all surplus fat, but if a thickened gravy is required, retain enough of the fat to brown the flour in. The amount required will be one tablespoonful of fat and one tablespoonful of flour to each one pint of gravy. To make this, the fat should be again heated and the flour stirred in. Continue stirring this over the fire until the flour is quite brown, and then add one pint of stock to each one tablespoonful of flour used. Allow this to boil up, season with pepper and salt to taste. Remove any scum that may be present, and strain this either over the steak, or into a gravy boat, according to requirements, and serve hot.