136 i- lb. butter b lb. sugar 14 ozs. flour 5 eggs -i lb. sultanas GOOD FRUIT GENOA CAKE. £ lb. currants £ lb. candied peel 2 ozs. blanched almonds pinch of baking powder Line a cake tin with paper as in the last recipe. Have the currants clean and dry, pick out the stalks from the raisins, chop the peel and almonds small. Put the butter and sugar in a bowl and beat up until creamy, beat in the eggs, one at a time, add the currants, sultanas, chopped peel, and almonds, and mix well, then thoroughly mix in the flour and baking powder. Put the mixture into the cake tin and bake in a moderate oven for one and a half hours. SUFFIELD TARTLETS. 3 ozs. butter 2 ozs. castor sugar 1 clove grated rind and juice of -b a lemon 1 apple 1 oz. bread crumbs 2 eggs puff paste Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the lemon rind and juice, and the clove, powdered, peel and core the apple, chop it finely, and add to the butter, add the crumbs and yolks of the eggs. and stir well altogether. Line two dozen patty tins with puff paste and fill each with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven until a pale brown. When done, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a little sugar, pile some on the top of each tart, and re-bake in a slow oven five minutes. Remove from the tins, and serve. CHESTER CAKES. £ lb. soaked bread i lb. raisins 1 piece candied peel 1 tablespoonful butter or lard b lb. currants 1 apple 4 tablespoonfuls sugar lb. rough puff paste \ teaspoonful mixed spice Wash the currants, seed the l'aisins, peel, core, and chop the apple. Squeeze the bread dry, add it to the fruit, add the spice, sugar, and butter, and mix all to a paste. Roll out the puff paste to l inch in thickness, cut it into exact halves, put one half on a baking tin, spread the fruit mixture evenly over it, wet round the edges, place the second sheet of paste on the top, prick all o\-ei with a fork, brush over with beaten egg. Bake it well, bottom heat first, in a moderate oven. Cut into fingers or squares, dust ovei with sugar, and serve.