133 LEMON CURD CHEESECAKES. For the curd :— 1-J- pints water 10 large eggs 3 lbs. sugar lb. butter lb. flour 4 lemons Put the water, butter, and sugar in a pan and bring to the boil. Draw the pan aside to just simmer, and beat up the eggs, mix the flour smoothly with a little cold water, and mix the beaten eggs in this, then pour all into the pan, draw it over the fire, and keep stirring until it again comes to the boiling point. Remove from the fire, add the grated rind from the lemons and the juice, stir, allow to cool, and use as required. Enough for ten dozen cheesecakes. For the cheesecakes :— Line the number of patty tins you require with either short paste or puff paste, half fill each with curd, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Remove from the tins, allow to cool, and serve. HOT CROSS BUNS. 4 ozs. yeast lb. butter 3 pints warm milk 7 lbs. flour 1 lb. currants \ lb. sultanas 2 ozs. chopped candied peel } lb. sugar Rub the butter in the flour, put half of this in a warm bowl, mix the yeast with the milk, and mix in the sugar, pour this in the bowl containing the half of the flour, mix up, and stand in a warm place to rise for about half-an-hour, then add the currants, sultanas, and peel, and the remainder of the flour, and knead all to a dough. Put aside again for three-quarters of an hour to rise. When risen, again knead the dough, divide into buns about 3 ozs. each, mould up, put on warm baking tins so that they just touch each other, mark a cross on each with a knife, allow to rise well again, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen mintues. This quantity makes nine dozen. GREEK TEA CAKES. 1 lb. flour (Hungarian) \ lb. butter 1 large teaspoonful baking powder \ pint milk 1- teaspoonful powdered cinnamon 1 grated lemon rind 2 tablespoonfuls sugar pinch of salt Rub the butter in the flour, add the remaining ingredients, and mix slightly firmer than scones. Roll out to half inch thickness, cut them out with paste cutter, brush over with beaten egg, and bake on greased tins for ten minutes in sharp oven.