93 MOCK GOOSE. about 5 lbs. in weight } lb. soft bread crumbs 1 shoulder or 1 leg of Mutton 1 teaspoonful sage teaspoonful salt -}r teaspoonful pepper i lb. boiled Spanish onions Whilst the onions are boiling proceed to remove the bone from the mutton. This is done by first inserting the point of a sharp knife near the joint, and, by carefully keeping the sharp edge of the knife toward the bone, the flesh can be gradually removed. This will be found rather difficult to do neatly at first, but it will become easy with practice. The cavity of the joint from which the bone has been removed is then filled with sage and onion stuffing made as follows : Chop the boiled onions, add the crumbs, sage, pepper, and salt, and mix together. Put this into the joint, then bake the joint in a sharp oven for about li hours. Take care to baste the joint often during the time it is baking. When sufficiently cooked put the mock goose on to a hot dish. Drain the fat from the baking tin, then put the baking tin on the top of a hot stove and brown the sediment, add salt and pepper, and when it is sufficiently browned pour in about half-a-pint of stock. Allow this to boil. Strain it into a gravy boat and serve with the mock goose. Mince the beef very fine, add the soaked bread, which has been squeezed almost dry, and the salt and pepper. Mix this very thoroughly. Shell the eggs and cover each one completely with the mixture, dip each of them in eggwash and cover them with crumbs Fry these in deep smoking hot fat until they are a nice light brown colour, and then put them into a moderately hot oven for five minutes to make quite sure that the meat mixture is cooked through While they are m the oven cut out of slices of bread with a round cutter, 2 inches diameter, sixteen rounds, and fry these in the fat to a light golden colour. Now take each of the eggs and cut them across into equal halves, put a half on each round of fried bread (crouton) garnish with a tiny spray of parsley in the centre of each, and serve hot. Gravy should be served separately. BIRDS’ NESTS. 8 hard boiled eggs 1 lb. laan raw beef £ lb. soaked bread 16 croutons f- teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful pepper eggwash breadcrumbs