152 7 lbs. flour 3 ozs. lard 4 ozs. sugar FRENCH ROLLS (Vienna Bread). 2 ozs. yeast or \ pt. of liquid yeast 1 oz. salt If- pints warm milk Put the flour into a bowl, rub in the lard until the flour looks moist or ‘ sandy,’ put the sugar and salt in one and a half pints of milk, stir round to dissolve, and pour this in the centre of the flour. Put the yeast in the remainder of the milk, and when apparently dissolved add this to the flour, and knead all together thoroughly. When kneaded, cover to keep off draughts, and put in a warm place to rise, which will take about one hour. When well risen, remove the dough to the table and knead it up again. Divide off into pieces the required size, and mould into any fancy shape. Put the rolls as they are made up on to baking sheets, wash over with egg, allow to rise again for about half an hour, and bake in a very hot oven ten minutes. The above quantity should make eight dozen rolls. BREAD. 20 lbs. flour f- pint yeast about 4 quarts of tepid sea or fresh water, if fresh water is used add to it 4 ozs. salt Make a hollow in the flour, pour in the yeast and three-quarters- of the water, work the flour into this and gradually add more water as required. Knead all thoroughly to a smooth dough that will not stick to the hands. Cover and set in a warm place to rise. Wheni well risen knead the bread a second time, work it well, and shape it into loaves the required size. Place them in greased tins, allow them to rise again, and bake in a moderate oven, with bottom heat first, and afterwards, if necessary, top heat to brown them. PLAIN CAKES. 2 lbs. flour oz. salt 2 ozs. lard 1 oz. yeast -f pint warm water or milk Rub the lard into the flour. Mix the salt and the yeast m a quarter pint of the water, add this and the remaining half-pint of water to the flour and knead it thoroughly. Put this dough into a warm place to rise. When it has risen (this will take about one hour) give the dough anothei kneading then divide it into twelve equal parts. Mould these and then roll them out into cakes about one-half inch thick. Put them on to a warm baking sheet, prick them ovei with a