31 This way of making a thick brown gravy is superior in every way to the old fashioned way of using thickening and burnt sugar, or, as it is usually called, “ black Jack.” The “ black Jack ” ruins your gravy by imparting a bitter taste, and the thickening is in most cases insufficiently cooked in the gravy, which has therefore an appearance not unlike dirty pea soup. A quantity of browned flour may be made at once and a spoon- ful used as required. It will keep good for months. STOCK.—Stock is the liquor made from bones and all trimmings of meat, put into a pan, covered with cold water, and boiled. The bones, etc., may be boiled for several days before all the nutriment is drawn from them. As the stock is used from the pan, more water should be added to make up the quantity again. Stock made in this way is the basis of all soups. No vegetables of any kind should be put into the stock pot, because they will cause the stock to go sour very quickly. Stock must be boiled up daily, and not just allowed to keep warm, or it will turn bad. CLEANLINESS.—Cleanliness is a very important matter in cookery, and it should be the regular practice of all cooks to have a thorough and complete overhauling of all utensils and lockers and all fittings in the galley at least once a week. In addition to the usual everyday clearing up. Make it a rule also to clean all bowls, pans, whisks, etc., imme- diately after use, and much time and trouble will be saved. The principle of cleaning up as you go along is the very best. If you should unfortunately have a pan in which food such as porridge, pea soup, or stew of any sort has become burnt hard on the bottom, do not waste your time in scratching and scraping to get the stuff off the pan, and in so doing scraping away the tin lining also, but just stand it aside for an hour with enough water in it to cover the burnt material, put the lid on again, and at the end of an hour you will be able to lift the burnt stuff away in a sheet quite easily, but remember that the lid must be kept on the pan all the time. Pan lids must always be kept clean, and particular care must be taken to wipe dry the part that fits in the pan. A clean, orderly galley is proof of a clean cook, who can always command respect from officers and men alike. YEAST.—Unfortunately, yeast cannot be obtained fresh when- ever required, as it can ashore, and it must therefore receive careful attention from the cook when at sea. This is one of the many difficulties which have to be overcome. Poor yeast is the fruitful cause of much of the discontent shown by seamen, with regard to their bread supply. If you have good yeast for bread making, all c