173 Put this mincemeat into a stone jar, cover the jar with clean grease-proof paper and tie it down, store in a cool store room. The mincemeat can be used in a couple of days time, but it will be very considerably improved if kept for one month before using. MINCEMEAT. 1 lemon, and also the grated rind of 1 lemon £ teaspoonful mixed spice 4 a grated nutmeg f pint sherry -]■ pint brandy Boil the lemon 1 hour, or until soft, then chop it finely and take care to throw away the pips. Chop the suet fine and do not use any flour when chopping it. Pare, core, and chop the apples, seed and chop the raisins, cut the candied peel very small, and wash and pick the currants free from stones and stalks. Mix all the ingredients together, add the sherry and brandy, and mix thoroughly. Put the mincemeat into a jar, cover and tie down. This should be made at least one month before being used. FONDANT ICING. £ lb. glucose or (if you have no glucose) teaspoonful of cream of tarter It is very difficult to explain the method of making fondant icing by means of a recipe, and beginners are strongly advised to adhere carefully to the instructions given as follows :— Boil the sugar and water slowly together for ten minutes. Then add the glucose (or cream of tartar) and continue boiling until the soft ball degree is reached. This degree is 240°F. if a thermometer is used. If you have not a thermometer, have a bowl of cold water handy, and when you believe the sugar to be sufficiently boiled, dip a wooden skewer into it and then into the water. The sudden cooling will leave a little sugar on the end of the skewer, which, if rolled between the finger and thumb, will form into a soft ball. When this degree is reached, sprinkle a slab with cold water, pour the boiled sugar upon this, and then turn it over and over continually with a spatula until quite cold and white. Then flavour this with vanilla essence, put it into a jar, and use as required. To soften the fondant for using on cakes, etc., the jar should be placed in hot (not boiling) water. If lbs. loaf sugar I t gills of water 1 lb. suet 1 lb. apples 1 lb. raisins 1 lb. currants lb. candied peel 1 lb. brown sugar X teaspoonful salt