156 SCOTCH BANNOCKS. '2 lbs. fine oatmeal -J lb flour f- lb. lard i lb sugar i oz. bi-carbonate of soda cold water Mix the flour and oatmeal together, rub in the lard, add the -sugar and soda, and mix to a stiff dough with cold water. Divide this into twelve even parts, roll out each part very thin, and bake for ten minutes in a hot oven (400° F.). Have ready a baking sheet about 18 inches square, and cover this with clean kitchen paper. Do not grease the paper, and do not allow grease to in any way come in contact with the mixture. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, put the whites in a very clean and dry bowl, then beat up the yolks to a froth, add one half of the sugar, and beat up the yolks and sugar again until frothy. Now take a clean dry whisk and beat up the whites to a very firm white froth, add the remaining sugar to this, and again whisk up thoroughly. When this has been done satisfactorily, put the yolks and whites together and mix them. Now add the flour, and shake this in carefully, but do not whisk it, or you will break up the air cells in the mixture. Spread this mixture evenly on the papered baking sheet and bake from seven to ten minutes, according to the thickness of the mixture, in a very hot oven (425° F.). When baked, turn the cake upside down on the galley table, and brush the paper over with a wet brush ; allow this to soak for about one minute, and the paper can then easily be removed. Then spread the cake with jam, roll it up, and it will be ready for serving. A FEW RECIPES FOR MODERN CAKES. By FREDERIC HOUGHTON, Author of “ Cakes as you like them,” “ Gateau Sandwich,” etc. The advantages of using “ Cottolene ” in all cakes and pastries are so numerous that it would take a deal of space to describe them, and the user will undoubtedly find fresh benefits from its use almost daily. It creams up much quicker and lighter than either butter or lard, and gives a rich, creamy tone to the finished goods. Cakes which “ burst ” at the top have a rich looking burst, and not a hard, dry crack such as is derived by the use of lard or maigaiines. SWISS ROLL 4 eggs 4 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. flour jam