21 cloths sewn together will make a net bag). Put these into the pan of water and remove it from the fire altogether, on the floor will do. Allow them to remain in the water for seven minutes, and they will be ready to send to the table. Cooked this way the white will be tender, the yolk soft, and there will be no more trouble with hard boiled eggs. If you are afraid of cooking a number of eggs this way, try the experiment with one only, and you will see for yourself. The explanation is this. Albumen, or as it is better known, white of egg, coagulates at a temperature of 160 degrees. The boiling water is 212 degrees. When the cold eggs are plunged into the water the temperature is lowered, but there is more than suffi- cient heat left to cook the eggs. It takes longer for the heat to travel to the centre, by this method, but the albumen nearest the shell is not toughened owing to the amount of heat being less than when actually boiled. Another good way is to put the eggs into a pan with just enough cold water to cover them. Put the pan on a good fire and allow the water to boil. When the water commences to boil, allow one-half minute longer, then remove the eggs and they will be found just nicely done. This method is simply a reversal of the first one. If you require a hard boiled egg for salad or any other purpose, do not allow it to boil for any length of time, or you will find that after a certain length of time has elapsed the yolk has begun to discolour the white, and the longer it boils after this the darker and tougher the white becomes. Instead of that, put the egg into boiling water, give it just ten minutes boiling, then remove it from the pan. To take off the shell without breaking the egg, put the egg whilst hot into cold water, and let it remain for one minute. Then crack the shell and it can be easily removed. FLAVOURING AGENTS.—The absence of herbs and seasonings aboard ship is a constant source of worry to a good cook. It is absolutely essential that a supply of these should be put aboard all ships. It is a good investment to provide these before commencing a voyage, as in the hands of a skilled cook a variety in the supply of food and also greater economy is assured. Variety is obtained by using up the remains of joints or poultry, etc., in the form of entrees or made dishes, and it follows that if all the remains of cold meats can be and are used up, economy is effected. It is absolutely sinful to waste food of any kind, and the aim of the cook must always be to use it all up and serve it in as palatable a manner as he possibly can. Economy in food prepara- tion is the essential distinction of a good cook from a bad one.