121 BANANA FINGERS. 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam 3 bananas a little butter 2 tablespoonfuls red currant jelly or pine apple syrup 3 large sponge cakes 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 2 tablespoonfuls sherry Put the jam and red currant jelly, lemon juice and sugai, all together in a pan, stir round and bring to the boil. Allow to simmer for three minutes. Take the pan from the fire, cut the bananas in halves lengthwise, and put them into the pan, allow them to remain in for three minutes. Do not boil. Cut the sponge cakes in halves lengthwise, butter' each half, place them, buttei downwards, in a dry hot frying pan, and brown them on both sides. When browned, place them on a dish, sprinkle the sherry over, put a banana on each, and pour over the hot jam. Garnish to taste and serve. If served cold, have a little whipped cream, pipe this round the bananas in neat design, and serve. RHUBARB TRIFLE. 5 or 6 sponge cakes i lb. Sugar 8 small sticks of rhubarb , teacupful of water Stew the rhubarb in the water, add the sugar, when stewed strain off the syrup and allow the rhubarb to cool. Place the broken sponge cakes in a dish, cover with the cold rhubarb and mask with thin custard, and garnish with coloured jelly. COLOURED JELLY FOR TRIFLE. Place the syrup strained from the rhubarb in a small pan, add the rind of a lemon and allow to boil, then stir in three sheets of gelatine and the juice of the lemon, strain into a large bowl, and allow to’ cool but not set. When cool add the white of an egg beaten stiff, and whisk all together from five to ten minutes. Colour with cochineal, and place it over the custard. Garnish with ratafias or candied fruits. FRUIT JELLY. The syrup from one tin or two I 6 sheets of gelatine bottles of fruit j sugar to taste enough water to make up to 1 pint j Put the syrup into a clean pan with the water and sugar, allow to boil, remove any scum that may appear, add the gelatine,, and stir until completely dissolved. Strain through a clean doth into a mould, allow to go quite cold and set firm. Dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn out the jelly on a glass dish and serve.