128 FRUIT ICES. A variety of simple water ices can be made by using the liquid from bottled or tinned fruits. When making these it is advisable to mash a part of the bottle of fruit used, and after mixing these with the juice, strain it through a hair sieve or very clean cloth. Sugar is then added in the average proportion of f lb. to each 1 quart of juice, but a little judgment is necessary because of the varying natural sweetness of the fruits used. When making a fruit ice, always add the juice of a lemon to each 1 quart of fruit juice. This will intensify the natural flavour of the fruit, and also give the fruity acid twang necessary to all water ices. A combination of two or more fruits may be used such as equal quantities of raspberry and red currant, or cherry and pineapple, etc. If it is possible, the fruit juices should then be diluted with mineral water. A bottle of lemonade added to most fruit water ices is an excellent addition. The mixtures when prepared should be frozen in the usual way and kept on ice until required. SURPRISE VANILLA ICED SOUFLE. 1 quart milk 1 oz. cornflour lb. sugar 2 eggs vanilla essence 3 whites of eggs Put the sugar and 11- pints of milk in a pan and bring them to a boil. Mix the cornflour with the remaining half-pint milk, pour this into the pan and stir round until it boils again. Now have ready the two eggs, which have been whisked up very light, and pour the boiling mixture over them. Add about half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence and mix well. Freeze this mixture and put it into a mould, keep the mould on ice until required. Ten minutes before the pudding is required commence whisking the three whites of eggs, and when they have been beaten up to a white firm froth sprinkle in about a teaspoonful of sugar. Now turn out the pudding on to a silver entree dish and completely cover this with the whites of eggs. Put this immediately into a very hot oven and allow it to brown slightly. This will take about one minute. The pudding must be served immediately. ICED ALMOND PUDDING. i lb. almonds 8 eggs J lb. sugar pints milk Blanch the almonds and pound them down to a paste, beat the sugar and milk together, whisk up the eggs until they are very light, put the almonds, milk, and sugar into a pan and allow this to