151 baking sheet, they should be placed evenly, and barely touching each other. Cover these over and allow them to rise again to about half their size again. The ovens should be attended to beforehand and should be very hot. If you f<re going to fill them with the loaves the proper tem- perature is 450° F., but if only one or two loaves are to be baked the temperature can be lowered somewhat. Put in the loaves, and take notice of the time when they were put in. A 2 lb. loaf, if baked at a proper temperature, will be baked in forty-five minutes, but if baked on a baking sheet side by side with others, five to ten minutes longer should be allowed. Keep the steam in your oven as much as possible when the bread is baking, and do not allow your fire to go low. The test to discover if the bread is baked enough is by turning a loaf out of the tin and noting if the bottom is brown and crisp, and also by tapping it smartly with the knuckles. If a hollow sound is given out when the loaf is tapped it will be sufficiently baked. Mix the flour and wheat meal together. Make a hollow in the mixture and pour in one-half of the water ; then mix in enough of the flour to make a batter. When this is mixed, add the yeast and salt and mix these in the batter ; then add the remaining water and knead all very thoroughly until the dough is quite smooth and not sticky. Cover this over and put it in a warm place to rise. When the dough is risen give it another thorough kneading, then divide it into pieces weighing 2 lbs. 3 ozs. each. Mould up these pieces and place them in lightly greased tins, cover over, and allow to rise again until about one-third higher than when moulded. Bake in a hot oven (425° F.) with bottom heat for one hour. Brown Bi ead can be made of all wheat meal, or the proportions of flour added may be varied to suit individual requirements. Remember that it requires more salt, more yeast, slightly warmer water,^ and longer baking, but shorter fermentation than white bread. The dough should not be made too stiff. BROWN BREAD. 10 lbs. flour 5 lbs wheat meal 2} ozs. salt liquid yeast 5 pints water at 120° F. 2 ozs. compressed yeast or \ pint