45 WHITE FISH SOUP. 1 bay leaf 4 cloves pepper and salt to taste 1 cupful milk 1 tablespoonful cornflour 3 lbs. of any white fish 2 quarts water 3 sticks of celery or 4 teaspoonful celery seeds a large spray of parsley 2 onions Clean the fish and put it into a pan with the cold water. Clean the celery and cut it into one inch lengths, peel and quarter the onions. Put them into the pan, add the cloves and bay leaf, and allow to boil for one hour, taking care to remove the scum when it rises. Then strain off the liquor, throw away the bones and season- ings, put the liquor back in the pan, and season with salt and pepper. Mix together the milk and cornflour and put it into the soup when just on the point of boiling, keep stirring it all one way until it thickens slightly. Wash and chop the parsley. Pour the soup into a tureen, sprinkle the parsley over, and serve hot. q lb. rice VICTORIA SOUP. \ pint milk pepper and salt 3 pints nicely seasoned white stock Wash the rice and put it into a pan containing one quart boiling water. Boil for seven minutes and strain it off. This will remove impurities from the rice. Then put the stock into a pan, allow it to boil, add the parboiled rice, and allow it to simmer until quite tender. Put aside two heaped tablespoonfuls of the rice and rub the remainder through a wire sieve. Place it all back in the pan, re-boil, stir in the milk, which must be boiling, season to taste, and serve immediately. CELERY SOUP. \ pint milk £ pint of cream salt pepper 1 oz. flour or cornflour WHITE l \ pints white stock 1 onion 1 potato 1 large head of celery 1 bay leaf 1 blade of mace Wash the celery clean and cut small, peel the potato and onion, and boil all together in just enough water to cover them. When 'tender, rub all through a wire sieve, add the stock, and re-boil all together. Season with the mace, bay leaf, and salt and pepper add the milk, and allow to stand ten minutes. Then add the corn- flour, which has been previously mixed with a little cold water and stir till the soup thickens. Remove the mace and bay leaf! whip the cream and stir it in just before serving the soup.