56 BAKED SOLE. 1 sole about 2 lbs. weight i lb. cold boiled new potatoes £ lb. shrimps 1 teaspoonful capers 1 teaspoonful lemon juice a little chopped parsley Clean and trim the sole, butter a dish, in which the fish has to be cooked and served, lay on the fish, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and cayenne and lemon juice. Shell and chop the shrimps and sprinkle them over the sole, chop the capers and sprinkle them over the shrimps. Cut the potatoes into slices, completely cover the fish with them, put on a few bits of butter. Stand the dish in a baking tin containing a little boiling water, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Remove the dish from the oven, pour over the sauce, sprinkle over the chopped parsley and crumbs, and serve hot. £ pint white sauce salt pepper cayenne brown bread crumbs OYSTER PATTIES. 1 lb. good puff paste 2 dozen oysters 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour i teaspoonful lemon juice pinch of cayenne salt £ pint water Roll out the paste to half-inch thickness and cut with a round cutter two inches in diameter. Then cut half-way through each piece of paste with a smaller round cutter. Brush over with egg and bake about ten minutes in a very hot oven. Cut the oysters into quarters. Put the butter into a pan, when melted add the flour and mix well, taking care it does not brown. Then add the water, lemon juice, cayenne, salt to taste, and oysters, and stir over the fire five minutes. Take the centres out of the patties, fill them with the mixture, put on the covers, and serve hot. FISH CHOWDER. 1 lb. cooked fish 2 lbs. potatoes 1 small onion 1 slice streaky bacon 2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 pint fresh milk or water £ stick celery chopped fine, or a pinch of celery seed pepper and salt to taste Break the fish into flakes, throw away the skin and bones. Peel and wash the potatoes and onion. Cut the potatoes into slices, chop the onion. Cut the bacon into small pieces. Put the butter into a pan, when melted stir in the flour, add the milk or water. Put the potatoes and fish in layers, add the celery, bacon, onion, and seasoning, simmer gently for thirty minutes, dish up neatly, sprinkle chopped parsley over, and serve hot.