25 flavour of the fish is present, and the same fat can be used in frying meats like steak or chops, or if minced and made into shapes such as rissoles, etc. Delicate articles of food such as fritters can also be fried in the same fat without spoiling in flavour, so long as these instructions are carefully followed. Therefore, the deep fat, or, as it is named, the bath of fat, is far more economical to use than the frying pan with just a little fat at a time. A very suitable fat for frying is “ Cottolene.” This article is more economical than lard or suet, and is much better than dripping for giving a nice, bright appearance to the article when fried. “ Cottolene ” is a vegetable fat, refined, and scientifically prepared for the use of the cook. There is not the slightest fear of it turning rancid on a voyage, as it will keep for twelve months or more, and this gives it a decided preference over either butter or lard for frying purposes. Articles fried in “ Cottolene ” have a nice golden brown tint, and as the fat can be used again and again—right up to the last— without waste or loss, considerable economy is effected and time saved by its use. The skillet or frying pan must be cold when the “ Cottolene ” is put in. Large quantities of “ Cottolene ” are used daily for the prepara- tion of food stuffs ashore, where quality, combined with economy, is essential ; and once it’s use becomes more widely known to the ships’ cooks, there is no reason to doubt that “ Cottolene ” will be used regularly by them for practically all purposes where butter, lard, or dripping is used at the present time. BOILING.—Fish, meat, poultry, vegetables, and puddings can all be cooked by the process of boiling in water. Fish is dealt with on another page. Meats are boiled to obtain two different results. One is to boil in such a way as to retain all the nutriment possible. The other is to cook so as to extract all the flavour. To obtain the first result, i.e., the retention of the flavour, as in the case of a joint of boiled mutton or beef, the meat must be put into sufficient boiling water to completely cover it. The heat will harden the surface and prevent the juices escaping into the water. When boiling salt meat it is essential that some of the salt should be drawn out from the meat, therefore, it is best to put the meat into cold water and allow it to boil up. Unfortunately, the brine which has been used to pickle the beef has already caused much of the nutriment to be lost, and also had the effect of hardening the meat, and further loss is sustained when the meat is cooked, but this is unavoidable.