58 LOBSTER CREAMS. 1 lobster, or 1 tin of lobster 1 oz. butter 1 dessertspoonful anchovy sauce 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls cream or milk salt and pepper Chop the lobster, pound it well, and pass through a wire sieve. Add the butter, anchovy sauce, yolks of the eggs, and cream. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir them into the mixture, and season to taste. Butter twelve dariole moulds, three-parts fill them with the mixture, cover each with greased paper, and stand them in boiling water which will reach half-way up the moulds. Do not allow the water to boil again. Time, twenty minutes. Remove the moulds from the pan and turn out the mixture upon a hot dish. Serve with any fish sauce. Garnish with lemon, prawns, and lobster coral. LOBSTER PATTIES. 1 lb. good puff paste 1 small or 1 tin of lobster 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour '2 tablespoonfuls veal gravy 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence cayenne salt £ pint water 1 teaspoonful lemon juice Roll out, cut, and bake the paste as for oyster patties. Chop the lobster fine. Make a sauce with the butter and flour and water, add the seasonings and gravy. Put in the minced lobster and simmer five minutes. Fill the patties, sprinkle over with lobster •coral, and serve hot. COD A LA CLARENDON. 2 J lbs. tail end of cod 1£ ozs. butter 1 lemon salt 2 hard boiled eggs aspic jelly 1 large lettuce 1 small cucumber pepper a tew capers mayonnaise sauce 1 pickled walnut Wash and dry the fish, put it on a buttered tin, sprinkle over with lemon juice, salt, and pepper, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven twenty to thirty minutes. Remove the skin at once without breaking the fish, and allow it to go quite cold. Mask the fish all over with mayonnaise sauce. Decorate it hand- somely with rings of hard boiled egg, in the middle of which anange a circle of capers and pickled walnut cut in fancy shapes. then with a broad knife lift the fish on to a bed of shredded lettuce and sliced cucumber, or any other salad in season. Gaims i wi yolks of egg passed through a sieve, or thin slices of tomato and chopped aspic jelly.