57 1 lb. cooked fish 2 lbs. boiled potatoes 1- teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful mustard FISH CAKES. 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence 2 teaspoonfuls Yorkshire Relish £ teaspoonful salt Remove all bones and skin from the fish and mince it finely. Mix together the fish and potatoes, add the remaining ingredients, and mash all together thoroughly. Divide the mixture into 24 tablespoonfuls. Shape each into the form of a ball or cake. Brush over with beaten egg and cover with bread crumbs. Plunge them into a pan containing enough hot fat to completely cover them. When a nice brown, turn them out on clean paper to drain. Dish up, garnish with parsley or sliced lemon, and serve hot. FISH HASH. 1 lb. cold cooked fish 1J lbs. potatoes 1 onion f pint water ■} tablespoonful anchovy essence 1 oz. clean dripping 1 oz. flour pepper and, if necessary, salt Peel and wash the potatoes and cut them into slices. Remove the bones from the fish and break it into flakes. Peel and chop the onion. Put the dripping into a pan, and when hot add the flour. Stir well, add the water gradually, then the anchovy essence, the fish and potatoes, and onion. Simmer gently for thirty minutes, season to taste, pour into a pie-dish without breaking the potatoes, have a layer of potatoes on the top, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. BUTTERED FISH. \ lb. cold cooked fish 4 eggs 2 ozs. butter pepper to taste \ pint milk 2 rounds of toast Break the fish into flakes and throw away the bones. Beat up the eggs. Melt the butter in a pan. Then add the eggs and milk and stir until it commences to thicken, then add the fish and stir round until of a jelly-like consistency. Butter the toast well, heap the fish on it, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. FISH PIE. 1i lbs. mashed potatoes I salt % lb. cold cooked fish ! pepper i pint parsley sauce 1 teaspoonful butter or dripping’ Mince the fish small, throw away all the bones. Put the minced fish in the bottom of a pie dish, sprinkle it lightly with salt and pepper, and pour over the sauce. Lay the mashed potato smoothly over the top, spread the butter or dripping over, and bake m a hot oven until browned. Serve hot.