29 ROASTING AND BAKING.—Roasting before a clear fire is slowly dying out, and owing to its many inconveniences it is seldom or never practiced at sea. The usual way of “roasting” nowadays, unless the galley is fitted with a Patent Roaster, is to place it in the oven. This is really baking meat. When baking meat, have the oven very hot at first to coagulate the outer surface and keep in the juices as much as possible. If the joint is a large one, the temperature of the oven should be lowered slightly after it has been in half an hour, but if it is small or thin, the heat must be well kept up. Basting should be frequent to prevent the surface of the meat charring, and to assist it in retaining flavour. A joint of beef or mutton will take a quarter of an hour for each pound weight to cook. For example, suppose the joint is five pounds weight, it will take one hour and a quarter to cook so that it is slightly underdone. If required well done, it should be allowed to cook for fifteen or twenty minutes longer. Veal or pork must always be well cooked, as they are both unwholesome when underdone. For these joints, twenty minutes to each pound weight must be allowed, and then a further twenty minutes longer to ensure them being well done. The golden rule to be followed when baking is to cook at the greatest degree of heat to produce the necessary change in the centre without burning the outer surface. GRILLING.—The smaller and thinner the meat, the greater the amount of heat should be applied. Take as an instance a grilled chop or steak. Grilling is nothing more or less than true roasting, but instead of a large joint, the chop or steak is small, so that it takes proportionately less time for the heat to travel through to the centre. To simplify this explanation, suppose it is a steak that is being grilled. Have a gridiron that is made of thin wires, and made double, so that the meat can be placed in between and turned over as required without being handled. Grease the bars, sprinkle the steak with pepper and salt, and put it in the gridiron. Have a fire that is burning quite red, as, if there is any black coal burning, the gases given out will impart a disagreable flavour and bad colour to the steak. Sprinkle a little salt on the fire to make it burn clearer. Place the steak quite close to the fire, in fact almost touching it, if the steak is thick raise it an inch or two from the fire after the outside has hardened a little, if the steak is thin keep it close to the fire ah the time. Watch it closely, and when the top of the steak becomes moist turn it over so that the heat may harden that surface, keep watching and turning until the steak is cooked When done enough the steak will be slightly thicker in the middle than at the edges, owing to the juices being expanded by the heat.