41 CRECY SOUP. 6 large carrots 1 onion 1 head celery 2 quarts stock 2 ozs. butter 1 teaspoonful sugar salt pepper Scrape and wash the carrots. Grate the red part only and place it in a pan with the butter and sugar. Allow to steam gently, but do not allow any colour to be acquired, for forty-five minutes, then add the stock, onion, and celery, which has been previously washed well and cut into inch lengths, allow to boil one hour, season to taste. After boiling, rub all through a sieve, re-heat,, skim, and serve. 1 white turnip Wash and clean all the vegetables and cut them small. Put the butter in a pan and when it is hot add all the vegetables, herbs, and lemon rind, and fry for ten minutes. Do not brown them. Soak the head in salt and water beforehand for one hour, then put it on the top of the vegetables, add the stock or water, bring to the boil, remove the scum, and simmer for four hours. Take out the head, strain the soup, and leave it until next day. The next day take all the fat off the soup and put the soup into a pan. Beat the whites of egg to a froth, put this into the soup and heat over the fire until it boils and the scum rises. Stand it at the side of the fire for ten minutes, then strain the soup through a clean cloth. Pour it back in the pan to re-heat, add the sherry and force- meat balls and the best part of the head cut into small square pieces. Pour all into a tureen and serve. Boil four eggs hard, allow them to cool, remove the yolks, and put them into a bowl with one teaspoonful chopped parsley, a pinch of cayenne, one yolk of raw egg, and a little salt. Pound all together to a paste, form into balls the size of a nutmeg, throw these into boiling water, simmer two minutes, and serve in the soup. Allow one egg ball to each person. CLEAR MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Half a calf’s head 3 quarts stock or water 12 forcemeat balls 2 whites of eggs 2 ozs. butter 1 large onion 1 carrot 1 head of celery 2 tomatoes 1 bunch of mixed herbs rind of 1 lemon 1 teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper 1 glass sherry EGG BALLS FOR MOCK TURTLE SOUP.