81 VEAL MOULD. 1 lb. veal ^ lb. ham 3 hard boiled eggs chopped parsley- salt pepper grated rind of a lemon pint stock £ oz. sheet gelatine a little butter Cut the veal and ham into small squares. Butter a plain round mould, ornament it with slices of hard boiled egg at the bottom and sides, and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Fill the mould with layers of veal, chopped egg, and ham. Season each layer and sprinkle with lemon rind and parsley. Fill up with stock, cover with greased paper and bake in slow oven for two and a half hours. Remove from the oven, re-fill the mould with the remaining stock in which the gelatine has been dissolved and put aside till cold and set. When ready to serve dip the mould in hot water and turn it out on a dish paper. Garnish with parsley. POTTED BEEF. 1 lb. beef 1 allspice 1 clove 2 pepper corns 1 bay leaf 1 saltspoonful of salt 1 oz. butter also 2 ozs. butter to pour over when potted pinch of cayenne Cut the meat small, removing all fat and gristle, put it into a jar with the spices, bay leaf, and salt, cover with greased paper, and bake or steam for two hours. Remove from the fire, mince it finely, add the ounce of butter and cayenne pepper, and pound it into a paste. Put into pots and cover with the butter that remains, by melting it and pouring it over in a thin layer. SAVOURY OMELETTE. 3 eggs 1 tablespoonful fresh milk 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsley 1 saltspoonful salt \ saltspoonful pepper 1 oz. butter a very small piece of grated onion Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat up the yolks with the onion, salt, pepper, milk, and parsley. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, stir them carefully with the yolks. Have ready a very clean frying pan, with the butter in it made hot. Pour the eggs into the butter, stir well with a wooden spoon, until the omelette commences to set. Allow it to brown slightly beneath. Then put the pan into the oven until the whole is set. Brown the top in front of the fire, turn it out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve immediately.