98 FRIGASSE OF RABBIT. I rabbit 1 oz. flour 1 £ oz. butter pepper and salt small bunch of parsley 1 bay leaf mace juice of 4- a lemon J lb. streaky bacon J pint button onions 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves dusting of nutmeg, or ground 2 yolks of eggs Clean the rabbit and soak one hour in tepid water. Cut it into* neat joints, put it into a pan with enough cold water to cover, add pepper and salt to taste, onion, and parsley. Allow to come to the boil, remove the scum and simmer for forty-five minutes. Strain off and keep the stock. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour and stir well but do not brown, add one pint of the stock, and allow to- boil up. Put in the rabbit and cook twenty minutes. Beat up the yolks, add the lemon juice, and stir them into the sauce. Keep- hot, but do not allow to boil. Add seasonings, nutmeg, &c., to taste. Pile on a dish with the sauce poured over, and serve, garnished with fried croutons of bread and the bacon, cut in very small dice, and fried, or very small boiled onions. 50 chestnuts Peel the chestnuts and boil till tender. Remove the inner skin and chop them very finely, add the marrow and grated nutmeg, and mix well together. See that the turkey is thoroughly clean inside and fill with this stuffing, fasten the skin over the neck with a small skewer, then run long skewers through the pinions and thighs, taking care to pass them through the pinions and through the thighs on the other side. Turn the points of the pinions or wings on to- the back of the bird, pass a string over the points of the skewers,, and tie it securely over the back to keep the bird firmly and neatly trussed. Fasten the vent by passing the rump or nose through a hole made in the apron or loose skin through which the stuffing has been put in. Cover the breast with slices of fat bacon, place on a baking tin in a sharp oven, and cook for two hours, basting every ten minutes. Just before removing from the oven, take away the bacon and dust the turkey over with flour and a little salt, which will give it a frothy appearance. Remove the skewers and place the turkey on a hot dish. Serve with brown gravy. Cooked sausages may be placed round the bird on the dish if preferred, and served with it instead of chestnut stuffing. ROAST TURKEY STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS. 1 turkey, 10 lbs. weight -f lb. marrow from marrow bones 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 4 slices fat bacon