61 To fry the fish successfully it is necessary to have a pan contain- ing enough fat to completely cover the fish. This fat should have a faint blue vapour rising from it, and it will then be at the proper frying temperature. The fish should then be dipped into the batter, so that it is completely covered, and then must be plunged into the hot fat. In about one to two minutes the fish will be cooked, and it must then be lifted out of the fat with a fish slice and placed on kitchen paper to drain. Properly fried, there should be practically no fat adhering to the fish. Do not use a wire frying basket when frying fish in batter, because the batter has a tendency to adhere to the wire, and thus becomes broken upon removal. BUTTERED FISH. P lb. cold cooked fish 2 eggs 1 oz. butter I pint milk pepper and salt 1 round of buttered toast Break the fish into small flakes. Take care to remove any bones that may be present. Whisk up the eggs until they are very light, or frothy. Melt the butter in a pan, and then add the beaten eggs and pepper and salt to taste, and stir this round until it shows signs of commencing to thicken ; then add the fish, and stir round gently until it all becomes of a jelly-like consistency. Heap this up on the round of hot toast, garnish with parsley and/or hard boiled egg, and serve hot. LOBSTER PATTIES. 1 -lb. tin lobster lb. butter .a dust of cayenne pepper 4 drops cochineal 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar 2 or 3 drops anchovy essence puff paste Roll out enough puff paste to about inch thickness that will make two dozen patty cases. Cut this out with a fluted cutter, and place them on a tin and bake in the usual way. When baked, fill up with the lobster mixture, which is made in the following way : Remove the lobster from the tin, take away the bones and pound the meat to a smooth paste. Add the butter and as much of the liquid from the tin as may be required to properly soften the lobster paste, and then mix in the cochineal, vinegar, and anchovy essence. Serve garnished with a spray of parsley on the top of each patty.