9 There is also another point closely allied to this cookery question that should not be overlooked, and it is this : We are frequently told that many of our seamen are in the habit of getting drunk upon the least possible provocation, and I would ask : What is so likely to drive men to drink as bad accommodation and indifferent victuals ? Moreover, it must be remembered that, no matter how good the raw provisions may be, if they are improperly cooked the food cannot be anything else but bad. Who can be surprised if men who are compelled to live for long periods on badly cooked rations, and in the unsavoury atmosphere of a dingy forecastle, should, when opportunity offers, succumb to the attractions of the comparatively palatial public house ? It is only in accordance with the instincts of human nature that they should do so, and I venture to think that few of us have the right, everything considered, to cast the first stone. We are all very much the victims of circumstances, and are potentially influenced by our environments, whether for good or for evil, and one is at a loss to understand why it should be imagined that sailors are formed of a different material to other people. It may be laid down as an axiom that the better the surroundings of our seamen, the better will the conduct of the men themselves become. Personally, I gladly welcome the clause in the before mentioned Act of Parliament, which will, after June 30th, 1908, render compulsory the employment of duly certificated cooks on board British vessels of 1,000 tons and upwards. That it will enhance the importance of the various cookery schools is unquestionable, and it may be that in the halcyon clays to come, when well-cooked meals for our seafarers form the rule rather than the exception, the one-time opprobrious epithet of “ son of a sea cook ” will be looked upon in the light of a title of honour. My interest in the subject of sea-cookery is not a thing of yesterday, for in June, 1901, I presided over a public meeting in London having for its object the foundation of a National Association of Nautical Schools of Cookery. Although that scheme did not attain maturity, it may be that good seed was sown which has to an extent fructified. Since then, I have visited the various schools, including those at Hull and Liverpool, the former of which was and the latter of which is under the direction of Mr. Richard Bond, and, from what I have seen of him and his work from time to time, I have no hesita^ tion in cordially commending “ Sensible Cookery ” to the favourable notice of the public. January, 1907. W. F. CABORNE.