44 SOUP AND BOUILLJ. 4 quarts stock 4 tablespoonfuls dripping 4 tablespoonfuls flour \ teaspoonful marjoram 2 small carrots \ a white turnip 2 small onions 1 lb. shin beef pepper and salt to taste Put the dripping into a pan over the fire, when hot stir in the flour until a rich brown. Add the stock. Cut the beef into square pieces, fry them brown, and add to the soup. Scrape the carrots, peel the turnip and onions, and wash well. Cut the carrots into quarters lengthwise, and then into slices, quarter the onions, cut the turnip into small triangular pieces, and add them to the soup. Add the marjoram, and simmer one and a half hours. Skim well, remove all fat from the soup, pour into a tureen, and serve. TOMATO SOUP. 1 lb. tomatoes 1 quart water 1 small onion 2 cloves 1 slice lean ham 1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaspoonful vinegar 1 lump of sugar pepper and salt to taste Put the butter into a pan, when melted, fry in it the ham, remove the ham, add the flour, and stir until a nice brown. Add the water, fried ham, tomatoes cut into quarters, onion, and cloves. Boil for forty-five minutes. Then remove the ham and cloves and rub the soup through a wire sieve. Pour back into the pan, add the vinegar, sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Re-boil for five minutes, pour into the tureen, and serve. If the soup is required a nice red colour, stir in two or three ■drops of cochineal before serving. VERMICELLI SOUP. 2 quarts stock 1 onion 1 bay leaf 2 cloves 1 slice lean ham 1 £ ozs. vermicelli pepper and salt to taste Put the stock, onion, bay leaf, cloves, and ham into a pan, and boil for thirty minutes. Then remove the onion and remaining seasonings and clarify the stock with the white of an egg. Boil the vermicelli in a separate pan of water until tender. Strain the stock through a clean cloth, pour it back in the pan, add the cooked vermicelli, season with pepper and salt. Have the soup a light brown colour, pour into the tureen, and serve. Grated cheese should be handed round when serving this soup.