76 HAMBURG 2 lbs. steak 1 teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful marjoram £ teaspoonful thyme bayleaves STEAKS. 4 cloves, or 1 saltspoonful powdered cloves $ saltspoonful ground mace pepper Cut the steaks oval shape to required size, sprinkle with salt, pepper, thyme, marjoram, powdered cloves, and mace. Lay the steaks on top of each other with a bay leaf between each, and allow to stand five hours. After that time wipe off the herbs with a dry •clean cloth, and fry or stew in the usual manner as required. LAMB CUTLETS WITH TOMATOES. 2 lbs. cutlets 1 beaten egg pepper salt breadcrumbs 6 or 8 tomatoes 2 ozs. butter 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar 1 lump sugar Have the cutlets about four inches long. Scrape off the meat from the end of the bone, so as to leave an inch quite bare. Chop •off the chine bones, and flatten with the side of the cleaver. Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Dip into beaten egg and toss into the bread crumbs. Have ready a bath of fat, with a light blue vapour rising from it; the fat will then be sufficiently heated. Plunge in the cutlets and fry to a golden brown. Remove them from the fat and drain on clean paper. Slice the tomatoes, put them into a pan with the butter, pepper and salt to taste, add the vinegar and sugar, and simmer until tender. Pile them in the middle of a hot dish, place the cutlets around, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. 3 lbs. veal BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. 2 cloves 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour pepper salt 2 carrots £ teaspoonful mixed herbs 2 onions water 2 yolks of eggs 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley Cut the veal into pieces the size of a walnut. Put it into a pan •with sufficient water to just cover. Tie the herbs in a piece of cloth, and add to the veal. Scrape the carrots and peel the onions, stick the cloves in the onions, and put them and the carrots in the pan. Remove the scum and simmer gently one hour. Strain the liquor into a basin, place the meat on a dish. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir it well without browning, then add the veal gravy, season with pepper and salt, add the meat to the sauce, stir in the