20 EGGS. Eggs may be preserved in a variety of ways. They go bad because the shells are porous and the air can easily penetrate them. They lose weight by evaporation, and air takes the place of the moisture evaporated. Thus it is easy to understand that the hotter and drier the air the quicker will eggs decay. Here are two reliable ways to test if they are good. Put two quarts of water in a bowl and dissolve in it two tablespoonfuls of salt. Put the eggs in this solution. If they float, they are bad ; if they sink half way, they are stale ; if they sink to the bottom, they are fresh. Or, place the thin end of an egg against the tip of your tongue, if it feels cold, the egg is good ; if warm, the egg is stale, or bad. The cause of this difference is, in the case of the good egg, the albu- men, or white of egg, is in contact with the shell, and absorbs the heat from the tongue much quicker than the air bubble which is in the end of the stale egg. You will understand from the foregoing paragraphs that if we can exclude air from the eggs it will retard decay. One way to do this is to dip them in melted fat and then allow the fat to solidify on them. Another way is to plunge the eggs for about twenty seconds in boiling water. This hardens a thin coating of albumen on the inside of the shell. This coating is almost impervious to air. Another way is to pack the eggs tightly in salt, which is a preservative. This method is not very desirable, as the salt has the effect of weakening the albumen. The best way of preserving eggs, and I have preserved fresh eggs in this way in April and found them perfectly good for cooking purposes in the following December, is to cover them with a solution of silicate of soda, or, as it is usually termed, water glass, and water. Water glass may be obtained from most chemists, and the quantity in the following recipe only costs one shilling, and is more than enough to preserve two hundred eggs. The recipe is as follows :— Mix together six pounds of water glass with three gallons of boiling water and allow to go quite cold. When cold, put the eggs into the solution, taking care that there is enough liquid to completely cover the eggs. If the liquid evaporates so that the topmost eggs become uncovered, add water to cover again. Nothing more is required, and the eggs may be used at any time. When boiled eggs are required for the table, it is better not to actually boil them, especially if a number are required. To explain better, suppose you require one dozen boiled eggs. Have ready a pan containing enough boiling water to completely cover the eggs, put the eggs in a wire basket or net bag (two sponge