122 COMPOTE OF 10 chestnuts 1 pint milk or water l- pint cream 1 teacupful of puree of any fruit, either canned or fresh CHESTNUTS. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar 1 tablespoonful sherry 4 drops vanilla essence fruit for garnish Stew the fruit and rub it through a sieve to make a puree, take off the outer skin of the chestnuts and boil them in the milk until tender. When tender remove the inner skin and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the cream, sherry, sugar, and vanilla essence into a bowl and whip all together until firm. Pour the fruit puree into a deep glass dish, pile the chestnut in the form of a volcano over: that, put the cream into a paper cornet and force it through into the hollow of the chestnut and raise it in the form of a cone. Garnish with small pieces of neatly cut fruits, and serve. FLOATING ISLAND. i pint cream I a little apricot or raspberry jam If tablespoonfuls castor sugar whites of 4 eggs grated rind and juice of 1 lemon £ pint fruit jelly 4 penny sponge cakes Cut each of the sponge cakes into three slices. Put the cream, sugar, and rind and juice of the lemon into a bowl and whisk it until set firm. Place the whipped cream in a shallow glass dish, level it smooth with a knife, put a layer of slices of sponge cake all over, spread a layer of jam over the cakes and cover with the remaining, sponge cake. Have the fruit jelly cold, but not set, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, pour the cold jelly into them, and whisk until firm, or about five minutes longer. Pile this in rough lumps on top of the sponge cake, garnish with crystallised fruits, and serve. Custard made with one pint milk and three eggs (see Custard) and allowed to go cold, may be used in the place of cream in the above recipe. GROUND RICE MOULD. If pints milk 4 oz. butter I f tablespoonfuls sugar 4 tablespoonfuls ground rice Put the milk, butter, and sugar into a clean pan and bring to the boil. Put the rice in a basin and mix smoothly with a little cold milk, pour this into the pan, taking care to stir round all the time, draw the pan aside, put on the lid, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Pour into a wet mould and stand it aside until quite cold, turn out on a glass dish, and serve with stewed fruit.