144 1 lb. flour \ lb. butter WINE BISCUITS. lb. line sugar 2 eggs Cream up the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, and then add the flour and mix to a paste. Roll out this paste to about one-eighth inch in thickness, and cut it out with small fancy shaped cutters. Place these on a baking sheet and bake for about 10 minutes in a steady oven (400° F.). These biscuits should not be baked brown. They may be made in a variety of shapes and flavours. Variety in flavour may be obtained by adding in separate pieces of the dough currants, dessicated cocoanut, carraway seeds, almond essence, lemon essence, chopped almonds, etc. TENNIS CAKE. \ lb. butter i- lb. sugar, 4 eggs | lb. flour i~ lb. citron peel, chopped small -f- lb. currants d lb. preserved cherries 2 ozs. chopped almonds 1 lb. almond paste a little fondant icing. Line two bread tins (21b. size) with paper. Have the oven steady (375° F.). Cream up the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs one at a time, mix in the flour, and then add the peel, currants, cherries, and chopped almonds. Put one-half of this mixture into each of the paper-lined tins and bake in the oven for one hour. After removing the cakes from the oven, allow them to go cold. Then wash over the tops with apricot puree, and put one-half of the almond paste evenly over the top of each. Cover this with fondant icing. Decorate round the top edge neatly with royal icing, write the word “ Tennis ” in pale green or pink icing, and the cakes will be complete. ECCLES CAKES. 2 lbs. puff paste \ lb. cake crumbs \ lb. currants 6 ozs. sugar d lb. finely chopped candied peel juice of \ a lemon Roll out the puff paste to about one-eighth inch thick ; stamp this out with a round cutter about 4 inches diameter ; have read}'' mixed together the crumbs, currants, peel, sugar, and lemon juice ; put a teaspoonful of this mixture on each round of paste, then draw the edges of the paste together and thus enclose the mixture. Press the cakes down flat and roll them out lightly to about 3 inches diameter. Put these on a baking sheet, folded side downward, eggwash them over and nick them twice on the top with a knife. Bake in a sharp oven about 20 minutes.