22 The greater the skill of the cook, the more economy he will effect, because he will turn out well flavoured and appetising dishes and see possibilities in food that, in the hands of an untrained or poor cook, will be wasted altogether, or will prove an absolute failure if he attempts to make a savoury dish from it. Savoury or well flavoured made dishes can only be obtained by the proper use of herbs and seasonings. They are not expensive, can almost all be procured either dried or otherwise preserved, and they take up very little space in the store room. Herbs are always best when used fresh, but as it is impossible to keep them fresh for a great length of time, a few hints on how to preserve them will perhaps be acceptable. The following flavourings should be kept in stock on all ships, but the quantity required must be determined according to the length of voyage and number of persons to provide for. Sage, mint, thyme, parsley, marjoram, bay leaves, cloves, mace, mixed spice, celery seed, anchovy essence, capers, nutmegs, cinnamon, and, of course, pepper and salt. For sweet dishes a variety of essences, i.e., lemon, almond or ratafia, and vanilla, and also cochineal for imparting colour. There are other flavourings and essences to be obtained, but this list is quite sufficient to ensure a variety of properly flavoured dishes. Sage, mint, thyme and marjoram, if obtained fresh, should be washed to remove grit, and dried in a cool oven or hot sunshine until the leaves are brittle. Then break off the leaves and rub them to a powder. Bottle and cork tightly, and use as required. Parsley should be washed and then put into a pan containing boiling water and a very little salt, allow to remain for two minutes, drain it off, and dry quickly over a hot stove. When dry, be careful not to break it. Store it away carefully, and when wanted put the amount required into a little warm water to freshen it up. FISH.—Fish must always be cooked as fresh as possible. If it is stale the eyes will be dull, the gills a dirty yellow tint, and the flesh flabby, and when pressed, a dent will be left where the pressure is applied. On the other hand, if the fish is fresh, the eyes will be bright, the gills red, the scales bright, and the flesh when pressed will feel firm and no dent will remain. As parts of some kinds of fish are poisonous, even when fresh, it is best when cooking one which you feel doubtful about, to have it boiled, and put into the water in which the fish is being boiled a silver coin, or a piece of silver of any kind. If the silver turns black the fish is poisonous. It is always advisable to take this precaution with fish obtained in foreign ports.