91 STUFFED TRIPE. 1 lb. tripe j 2 ozs- chopped suet 3 ozs. bread crumbs pepper and salt to taste 1 tablespoonful mixed sweet herbs yolk of egg i teaspoonful grated lemon rind Cut the tripe into pieces four inches square. Mix together the crumbs, herbs, lemon rind, suet, pepper, and salt, and yolk of egg. Spread a little of this mixture on each piece of tripe, then roll up and tie each with string. Place the rolls in a roasting tin containing a little hot dripping, and roast for half hour, basting carefully every few minutes. Dish up, garnish with paisley, and sei\e. 3 sheep kidneys 6 small squares of hot buttered toast l- teaspoonful pepper DEVILLED KIDNEYS. P teaspoonful salt pinch of cayenne oz. butter •J- teaspoonful mixed mustard Put the pepper, salt, butter, cayenne, and mustard into a basin and mix all together. Split open each kidney, remove the core, take off the thin outer skin, and let them lay in tepid water for ten minutes, then run a skewer through each lengthwise and keep them flat. Put a little of the mixture on each, and grill over a clear fire for eight minutes, constantly turning. Remove the skewers, and place a piece of kidney on each square of toast. Serve as hot as possible. BOILED SHEEP HEAD. 1 sheep head 1 onion 1 large spray parsley 1 sprig thyme pepper and salt 1 stick of celery 1 tablespoonful butter 1 tablespoonful flour 1 pint liquor from the boiled head Clean the head and put it into a gallon of salted water and soak for two hours. Throw away the water, remove the brains, put the head into a pan with enough water to cover, and simmer until the meat will leave the bones easily. Take out the head and keep the liquor for broth, remove all the meat, and cut the tongue into halves lengthwise. Put the butter into a pan, stir in the flour, but do not brown it. Add the pint of liquor, onion, parsley, thyme, celery, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. Remove the parsley, &c., add the meat, and allow it to get well heated through. Tie the brains in a piece of clean cloth and boil them ten minutes, take them out and chop finely. Pour the sheep head into a hot dish. Put the chopped brains in the centre and the tongue on the top of them. Sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over, and serve hot.