117 BLACK CAP PUDDING. 2 tablespoonfuls currants 1 pint milk 2 ozs. butter 2 eggs £ lb. flour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar pinch of salt 1 teaspoonful baking powder Have ready a well greased pudding mould. Clean the currants and put them in the bottom of the mould. Mix the flour to a smooth batter with a little of the milk, melt the butter and stir it into the batter, stir in the remainder of the milk, salt and sugar, beat up the eggs, stir them into the batter, add the baking powder. Pour all into the mould, cover, and steam for one-and-a-half hours. Serve with either sherry or sweet sauce. TREACLE PUDDING. l£lb. soaked bread 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet 2 tablespoonfuls treacle 1 saltspoonful ground ginger 1 teaspoonful baking powder 1£ teaspoonfuls sugar juice of £ a lemon Squeeze the bread in a cloth and put it into a bowl, add all the remaining ingredients and mix thoroughly, if necessary add a little water to make the pudding of right consistency. Place all in a well greased mould, cover, and steam for two-and-a-half hours. Serve with sweet sauce. SUET PUDDING. £ lb. flour £ teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet \ pint cold water 1 teaspoonful baking powder Put all the ingredients into a bowl and mix well. Add the water gradually until mixed to a smooth dough. Take care not to make it too stiff. Have ready a well greased pudding mould, put in the mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam one-and-three-quarter hours. ROLL JAIV1 PUDDING. 3 tablespoonfuls chopped suet £ lb. flour £ teaspoonful baking powder Mix together the suet, flour, baking powder, and salt, make it into a paste with cold water. Roll out the paste to nearly twelve inches square. Spread a thin layer of jam all over, wet round the edges. Roll up the paste, tie it in a clean dry cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil for one hour. The water must not be allowed to stop boiling all the time. Remove the cloth from the pudding, place it on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce. Ui bctl l jam cold water