48 WHITE SOUP STOCK. The stock for white soups is obtained by using the liquid in which such meats as rabbit, fowl, veal, cowheels, etc., are boiled. The soups have always a proportion of milk added, and this has the effect of evenly distributing the flavour, besides helping to give the desired colour. The thickening medium used may be either tapioca, sago, arrowroot, cornflour, white roux, or ground rice, according to requirements. The following is a good recipe :— WHITE SOUP. 4 quarts good white stock 2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 ozs. flour 1 carrot 1 white turnip 1 slice ham 1 large onion 1 spray thyme £ blade mace 1 bunch parsley pepper and salt to taste 1 quart milk Boil the stock and add to it the whole of the ingredients, which have been previously cleaned and washed, except the butter, flour, and milk. Allow them to simmer for one hour, skim off the fat and strain off the liquor. Put the butter into a pan and melt it, then add the flour and mix well, but take care that it does not become browned. Add the strained stock and allow it to come to the boil; again remove any scum that should rise on the top ; now add the milk and pour this into the soup tureen and serve. CHICKEN BROTH. 4 quarts good stock 1 tablespoonful rice ^ teaspoonful thyme 1 medium sized onion 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful salt •J- teaspoonful pepper 1 slice ham The stock is usually obtained by boiling fowls for the table, but any cold remains of chicken will serve the purpose. Put all the ingredients, except parsley, together into a pan and simmer gently for one hour. Remove the onion, skim off the herbs and any fat that may be present, and remove the ham. Put the chopped parsley into the soup tureen and pour in the soup and serve. The soup may be slightly thickened by the addition of one tablespoonful of arrowroot if desired. SEMOLINA SOUP. This is made by preparing the soup as directed in Clear Soup. To each 1 quart of stock add 1 oz. of semolina ; allow this to simmer for ten minutes and serve.