86 this gravy in a stew pan, add the meat and chestnuts, and simmer slowly for thirty minutes. Then put the meat in a circle on the dish, pile the chestnuts in the centre, pour over the gravy, and serve hot. BEEF OLIVES. 2 lbs. steak \ lb. fat bacon 4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs J teaspoonful marjoram pinch of thyme i teaspoonful chopped parsley pepper salt pinch of cayenne 8 olives Cut the steak into eight thin fillets, trim them all one size, lay a thin piece of bacon on each. Chop the trimmings of meat and bacon very fine, chop the onion, peel the olives without breaking them, scrape the stones and put the pieces with the onion, trimmings of meat, crumbs, herbs, and pepper and salt to taste, mix all well together, moisten with egg, and lay a little of this forcemeat on each fillet. Roll them up, tie them with string, or run two skewers through all to keep them in shape, and fry brown. Make one pint of brown gravy, put in the olives, season to taste, and stew till tender. Re- move the skewers, place them neatly on a hot dish, put an olive on each, strain the gravy over them, garnish with slices of lemon or parsley, and serve. 2 lbs. steak pepper salt BEEF CUTLETS. crumbs parsley egg Cut the steak into oval or triangular fillets and proceed to season, crumb, and fry them as directed for Mutton Cutlets. GRILLED STEAK. Have ready a clear fire, put the steak on a board, sprinkle it with pepper and salt. Grease the bars of the gridiron, make them hot. put on the steak, and place it immediately over the fire. If the steak is thick, put it quite close to the fire at first, and after the outside has hardened a little, raise it an inch or two higher, but if thin, keep it close to the fire all the time. When the steak com- mences to appear moist on the top turn it over and continue turning until the steak is cooked. To tell if it is done enough, piess it gently with the back of a spoon. If the steak feels spongy, and resists the pressure a little, it is cooked, but if soft and flabby, underdone ; if hard, overdone.