84 RABBIT PIE. 1 rabbit, or 1 tin of rabbit £ lb. bacon nutmeg pepper and salt If a fresh rabbit is used, cut it into neat joints and soak them in tepid water for twenty minutes before placing them in the pie dish. If a tinned rabbit is used, turn it out of the tin carefully and put it at once into the pie dish. Cut the bacon into small pieces, put them into the dish with the rabbit, dust lightly with nutmeg, and season with salt and pepper. Half fill the dish with cold water. Cover with paste as instructed in recipe for Steak Pie, and bake in a quick oven one hour. When roasting meats have a sharp heat at first, and after a little time has elapsed reduce the heat, to allow the joint to cook right through without burning the outside. Baste the meat regu- larly and often whilst it is cooking, to ensure a well-flavoured joint. The length of time to cook depends on the size and thickness of the joint and the heat to which it is exposed. As an average joint is about 5 lbs. weight, the time to cook one of that size is about one and a half hours. It should be remembered that freshly-killed meats take longest to cook, and in cold weather meat takes longer to cook than in hot weather. Boiled beef should be placed in boiling water, not cold, and brought quickly to the boil again. Then draw to one side of the fire and allow to simmer slowly until cooked. Allow to simmer fifteen minutes to each pound weight of the joint and fifteen minutes over. The liquor in which the meat is boiled must be used for soup, as there is much nourishment in it. Cut the liver into slices quarter inch thick, and the bacon into pieces two inches long. Fry the bacon, remove it from the pan, and fry the liver in the bacon fat. Remove the liver and stir into the pan the tablespoonful of flour until it turns a rich brown, then add the water, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour the gravy into a sauce pan, add the liver and bacon, simmer gently for thirty minutes, dish up, and serve. ROAST BEEF OR MUTTON. BOILED BEEF. STEWED LIVER AND BACON. 1 lb. liver £ lb. bacon 1 tablespoonful flour 1 pint water pepper and salt