8 And now for a word or two about the food. Drawing upon my own reminiscences, it is certain that in the sixties of the last century, the ci'ew provisions supplied to even sailing ships of the most superior class left much to be desired. The biscuit kept in bags—tanks were hardly thought of for the purpose then—was full of weevils, a condition which we were assured was only a convincing proof of the goodness of the bread ; the beef was so highly pickled and so hard that snuff boxes could be, and were, manufactured out of it ; the aroma of the salt pork did not suggest the perfumes of Araby the Blest; and a great portion of the water was carried in evil-smelling casks. However, we have progressed since then, and it is an undoubted fact that the general character of the provisions supplied for the use of our merchant sailors has considerably improved of late years. While that is so, there is much need for a greater variety of articles, and that is being provided for by the new Dietary Scale in connection with the Merchant Shipping Act of 1906. Probably three-fourths of the troubles that arise on board ship are due, directly or indirectly, to matters connected with food. Certain it is that nothing conduces more to the maintenance of a comfortable and contented ship than an ample supply of good and well-cooked viands. Various schemes have been put forward from time to time with a view to rehabilitating British merchant sailors, so long a dwindling quantity, in our mercantile marine, and it is satisfactory to know that the proportion of their foreign rivals in our employment has been checked and even slightly diminished during the past two or three years. But the bringing about of a large increase of respectable British sailors will much depend upon the amelioration of some of the conditions of life and service afloat, and from this point of view the reformation of sea-cookery may be looked upon as a very important factor. Side by side with better cookery one would like to see the food served up to the men in a more decent manner than is now too frequently the case. What, for instance, can be more abominable than the mess-kids so often in evidence ? Hunger must indeed be a good sauce when it enables men to eat, I can scarcely say enjoy, their meals served up in such unappetising utensils. Again, how few of the forecastles of our vessels are fitted with mess-tables ! Attention to a few items of this description would cost but a mere nominal sum, and, at the same time, would greatly add to the comfort of those who, by the very nature of their employment, are cut off from much that is deemed essential ashore.