60 STEAMED COD ROLL. \ lb. cooked codfish £ pint milk 3 ozs. crumbs 1 teaspoonful lemon juice :2 ozs. butter 1 saltspoonful salt 1 saltspoonful pepper £ teaspoonful anchovy essence dust of nutmeg pinch of cayenne 1 teaspoonful chopped onion 2 yolks Mince and pound the fish to a paste. Boil the milk, add the ■onion, and cook a little. Remove the onion and stir in the crumbs. Put this paste and the yolks with the fish, add the seasonings, and mix thoroughly. Form the paste into a roll on greased paper and -cover over. Tie up in a cloth and steam for 40 minutes. Turn it out on a warm dish, pour over either shrimp or oyster sauce, and :serve garnished with parsley and lemon. GRILLED BLOATERS. 2 bloaters I pepper to taste 1 oz. butter Split the bloaters from head to tail. This is done by putting 'the point of the knife into the back of the fish near the head and then making a straight cut down to the tail. The bloater can then be opened out just like a kippered herring in appearance. When opened, take hold of the backbone near the head, and it •can easily be pulled away. If the bloaters are very salty they should then be covered with cold water and allowed to steep for half an hour. This will remove some of the salt. Then have ready a greased gridiron, put the bloaters on this, and then place them over a clear fire. The skin side of the bloaters will burn very easily, and this must be carefully watched, but the fleshy side will take the heat much better. When both sides are browned put the bloaters on a hot ■dish, put on the butter, sprinkle lightly with pepper, and serve hot. Note.—It will not be necessary to use the butter in above recipe if the bloaters are oily, but only when they are very dry. FRIED FISH IN BATTER. 4 lbs. fish I i pint water 1 lb. flour j 1 saltspoonful salt Have the fish all cleaned and ready for frying. Then make a batter by pouring the water into the flour all at once ; add the salt, and mix thoroughly. Do not add a little of the water, and after mixing again add a little more water, as this will probably give you a lumpy mixture of flour and water.