126 PARIS RICE. 4 oz. rice ratafia biscuits 1 quait milk 1 glass white wine sugar to taste 1 white of egg apricot jam jujce 0f a lemon, or lemon essence Wash the rice and stew until very tender in the milk, sweeten to taste and flavout with lemon, allow to cool a little, and put into a glass dish. Smooth over the top with a wet knife, then dissolve and run over a thin layer of apricot jam. Soak a few of the biscuits in the wine and put a ring of them round the dish. Whip the white eSS to a stiff froth and pile in the middle last thing before serving. LEMON JELLY. 4 lemons 4 lb.loaf sugar li oz. gelatine whites of 2 eggs 2 cloves pinch of cinnamon 1 bay leaf 1 quart water Peel the yellow rind from the lemons, taking care that none of the white pith adheres, and squeeze out the juice. Add the sugar, cloves, bay leaf, cinnamon, and water, put ali into a pan, and bring to the boil, then add the gelatine and stir all together until dissolved. Clarify with the whites of the eggs, strain, pour into a mould, and allow to set. ICES. All passenger vessels nowadays carry ice cream freezers, and a delightful addition to the bill of fare, especially in hot weather, is one of the many varieties of ices that can be turned out with a minimum of cost. A few hints on the management of the freezer should therefore be acceptable. First, see that the freezer-can in which the “ cream ” is frozen is scrupulously clean. Have the custard mixture quite cold before commencing to freeze it. This can be made several hours before- hand, and it will be found to be a great saving of timeand labour during the freezing process, and true economy of ice, which is, of course, a valuable consideration on a ship where the ice supply is limited. Get one of the seamen to make you a strong canvas bag, in which the ice can be placed, and then break the ice up into very small pieces with a wooden mallet. A thick, strong, rolling pin could be kept specially for this purpose if a mallet cannot be obtained. Mix the crushed ice with coarse salt in the proportion of two parts of ice (in bulk) to one of rough pickling salt.