51 TO BOIL SALT FISH. Remove the outer skin and fins of the fish, taking care to leave dhe under skin to hold the flakes of the fish together. Cut it into small squares. Soak for several hours in plenty of water, and then place it in a fish kettle of boiling water, and simmer gently forty-five minutes. Lift the fish out of the water without breaking the squares, dish it up, and serve with or without sauce. BAKED HADDOGK (Stuffed). 1 fresh haddock 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 saltspoonful mixed herbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley- pepper and salt brown bread crumbs Wash the fish, scrape off the scales, remove the gills and eyes, scrape out the inside, taking care to remove the blood from the back bone. Wash well and dry with a clean cloth. Mix the herbs, parsley, and crumbs, moisten them with a little water, season to taste, and put the stuffing inside the fish. Sew it up, pass the tail through the eyes, or shape the fish like a letter S, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle it thickly with brown crumbs, and bake it in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, taking care to baste with hot fat every five minutes to prevent the fish becoming dry. When baked, place the fish whole on a hot dish, garnish with parsley or slices of lemon, and serve with parsley sauce. NORIVIAN MACKEREL. 4 mackerel 2 tablespoonfuls white bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley or fennel 1 tablespoonful chopped mush- rooms pepper salt 2 ozs. butter a wineglassful of vinegar and water mixed brown crumbs 1 lemon Wash, clean, and dry the fish, split them down the back, and remove the bones. Sprinkle the inside with the mushrooms, white crumbs, bits of butter, parsley or fennel, and salt and pepper to taste. Lay one fish on another, insides facing. Put them on a greased baking tin, pour the vinegar and water round, cover with greased paper, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Remove them fiom the tin, lay on a dish, sprinkle brown crumbs over, pour the liquor round, and garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve : hot or cold.