34 First way. One pound of either rice flour, pea meal, or Indian meal, half pound flour, half ounce of dried hops, half ounce of malt, one and a quarter pints of boiling water, a little good yeast. Put the hops into the boiling water and boil for twenty minutes, strain off, add the malt to the liquor, and allow to stand for two hours. Strain off the malt, stir in the flour, and add a little good yeast. Allow to stand until next day. Then mix in the pea meal or rice flour or Indian meal, either of these will do. This makes a stiff dough, and must be well kneaded. Roll out the dough until only a quarter of an. inch thick, cut it into cakes two inches square, and keep them in a warm dry place until dry and hard. Or better still, put them in hot sunshine and turn them every two hours until quite hard. One of these put into yeast that has been freshly made will quickly cause fermentation. The second way to dry yeast is to buy half a pound of German yeast from the baker, before leaving port. Whisk this up in a bowl until it becomes frothy. Have a soft brush and paint a layer of this froth on a sheet of clean paper. Allow it to dry. Paint another layer on, allow this to dry, and thus continue until of sufficient thickness. When quite dry, break or cut it into cakes, keep it perfectly dry, and use as directed in the last recipe. Grease is injurious to yeast, so care must be taken to have nothing greasy that is used for yeast. If a yeast cell is broken it dies. After death the wall of the cell becomes thin and shrivels up, and the inner part of the cell, which is called protoplasm, becomes watery, decays, and gives off a bad smell. This in turn becomes prey to germs which are even smaller than the yeast germ. A thoroughly reliable and carefully tested recipe for yeast is the following :—Put one ounce of hops into a pan with four pints water and boil for ten minutes. Empty the hops and water into a tub or mess kid and make the liquor up to nine pints by adding hot water. If you have a thermometer, add the water at 150° F. Into this liquor at this heat stir in one and a quarter pounds of crushed malt. Cover over and allow this to stand for two hours. Then strain this into a shallow tub, and make up the quantity to one and a quarter gallons by adding water. Cool down until just tepid, or by the thermometer between 65° and 70° F., and stir in half pint of yeast from a previous brewing. Stir this occasionally when it is working, or better still, pour it from one tub to another and back again, so that the air can get in. This will be ready in 24 to 30 hours. In hot climates this yeast should be made twice weekly, and in any climate if the yeast is not working vigorously add one tablespoon- ful flour and stir thoroughly. Never boil hops in an iron pan,, hut- use either a copper or enamelled pan for this purpose..