22101443103Med K8690Boiled Fowl Page 40. Eoiled Cod, Page 26. Salmon. Page 31. Cauliflower, Page 60. Plum Pudding. Page 71.HOUSEHOLD COOKERY AND LAUNDRY WORK. b-v MRS. BLACK, F.E.I.S., Of The West-End Training School of Cookery, Glasgow. Holder of a First-Class Diploma from the National Training School of Cookery, South Kensington. SEVENTY-FIFTH THOUSAND LONDON AND GLASGOW : WILLIAM COLLINS, SONS, & CO., Limited. All rights reserved.1 11L <\ < *+The writer, having been for many years engaged in teaching Cookery, has compiled this book as the result of her practical experience, with a desire to put into the hands of housekeepers a guide to Household Cookery and Laundry Work, and a few hints on Household Management. Having fully tested all the recipes given, she can with confidence recommend them on account of their correctness, as well as for their sim- plicity and economy. Having been engaged for many years teaching Cookery in Schools, the writer has made it an endea- vour to adapt her instructions so as to supply a text-book alike suitable for Junior and Senior Classes.CONTENTS, Introduction, m m - PAGE 7 Soups, .... 11 Fish, .... 24 Meat, .... 32 Vegetables, 57 Puddings, 67 Sauces, .... 91 Cakes and Baking, 94 Sick-room Cookery, 107 Beverages, 114 Preserves, 122 Miscellaneous, 126 Washing and Ironing, • 127 Domestic Economy, - • 138INTRODUCTION, A great deal more of a country’s prosperity depends upon comfortable homes than philosophers might be willing to acknowledge; for people cannot prosecute business with great energy, or study with much enjoy- ment or profit, if there are worries at home, or muddle and discomfort there. This is quite apparent to all, and though it seems a matter of minor importance com- pared with the great interests and objects that have to be carried on out of doors, yet if the household machinery is out of order, or not moving smoothly, the derangement may be carried forward till very im- portant interests are disturbed. The home is the nursery of the present and future inhabitants of a country, and the care of the home devolves generally upon woman—in our country, at all events, it does so universally; and by the manner in which she performs her most important duties, not only the present comfort, but it may be the future destinies, of the inmates may be influenced, if not moulded. Incapacity on her part leads to many certain evils—disorder, waste, and muddle; and may have still worse effects on the health and tempers of the family. Whatever other duties a woman may have, she must either manage her house herself or devolve the care of it upon some other woman; consequently all women should be carefully trained for this their occupation.INTRODUCTION. 8 Parents would never think of setting a young man up in business unless he had been trained, probably by a long apprenticeship; and yet it has been practically de- cided by many people that a young woman instinctively knows all about housekeeping: that she can cook without being taught, and can manage a house, and instruct servants without ever having studied the sub- ject of domestic management; that if she has received a liberal education and some knowledge of needlework, everything else necessary to set her up as the mistress of a house comes naturally. Good mothers do and have always done great things in training their daugh- ters, but many girls have not that advantage; and even mothers may see the necessity of their best instructions being supplemented. Happily most people are now alive to the necessity of training girls of all classes for their natural and certain occupation—the care of the home; and domestic economy and cookery, instead of being shunted aside and picked up by degrees how and where they can be, are now prominent branches of instruction, and few girls of any rank finish their education without these branches being studied. This little book proposes to be a practical guide to some departments of domestic management in a plain household,—namely, in cookery, laundry work, and household management. Ignorance of these sub- jects has caused many a young housekeeper headaches and heartaches; and only after many trials and much waste has she succeeded in learning duties which a little early training would have made quite easy. Perhaps the most important result of this training is, that a knowledge of the constituents of different9 INTRODUCTION. classes of food is acquired, and children may be fed with suitable food, which so greatly promotes health, and thus sent out to fight the world’s battles with the sound, healthy bodies which so greatly assist the sound mind; for improper or unsuitable food generally impairs health or saps its foundations; and want of health impairs very greatly the energy and usefulness, as well as the individual happiness. The recipes given have all been repeatedly worked by the writer, and are perfectly reliable, and purposely made so plain that very young people can easily follow them. There are only a few specimens of the different classes of recipes given, because, with a little experience and practice, they may be varied and altered to a great extent to suit the circumstances of the household; they are moderately economical, and, if necessary, can be made more so. Three different constituents must enter into the daily food of all to supply the waste and the wants of the human body, and keep all the organs in good working order—Nitrogenous, Carbonaceous, and Mineral Foods. Nitrogenous food forms flesh and muscle, and supplies strength; carbonaceous food gives heat, and acts as the fuel to the engine; mineral food is necessary for the formation and repair of bone, and is an important con- stituent of the blood. PRINCIPAL NITROGENOUS FOODS, OR FLESH FORMERS. Animal. Butcher Meat. Poultry. Fish. Eggs. Cheese, Milk. Vegetable. Flour. OatmeaL Peas. Beans. Lentils.10 INTRODUCTION. CARBONACEOUS OR BODY-WARMING FOODS. Animal. Butter. Suet. Oil. Fat. Vegetable. Sugar. Treacle. Rice. All starchy foods. MINERAL FOODS. Green Vegetables. Wheat and OatmeaL Water, Milk. Those three constituents which ought to enter into the daily food of all, are to be found in plain ordinary materials, and, as will be seen by the foregoing table, in vegetable as well as in animal food. Animal food is by no means an absolute necessity, and may, with advantage to health in many cases, be entirely dispensed with. The nitrogenous principle in vegetable food is not so concentrated as in animal food, and consequently a larger bulk is required to procure the same amount of strength. Persons who have plenty of work or exercise in the open air, can easily consume sufficient vegetable food for all purposes of life and health; whereas for persons who lead sedentary lives, a smaller bulk of more concentrated food will probably be found more beneficial. The combination of eggs, milk, butter, and cheese, with vegetables, makes a dietary that is quite sufficient for life and health; and it is questionable whether it is not really the best sort of food for all.COOKERY. SOUPS. Soup may be made of meat, vegetables, bones, milk, fish, etc., and is liquid food of a warming and very nourishing kind. Our bodies require a certain amount of liquid, and soup supplies that want in an excellent and healthful manner. Warm food is much more nourishing than cold. As the stomach requires quantity as well as quality to assist digestion, and as it can contain a great deal more than is necessary, it is desirable to decrease the appetite for solid food. The French use the liquid in which fish, vegetables, and meat of all kinds have been boiled to make light, nourishing soups. It is advisable to make soup a daily article of food; and for that purpose, meat is not always necessary. Vegetables, beans, peas, lentils, tomatoes, etc., make excellent soups, in which the want of meat is difficult to discover. Warm light soup is excellent for invalids or persons afflicted with sleeplessness, as the warm liquid enters the blood quickly and draws it away from the head in order to assist the stomach to perform its functions, thereby causing drowsiness. Beans, peas, and lentils are all nitrogenous vegetable foods; and when used in the composition of soup, supply almost entirely the want of meat.COOKERY. 12 Tomatoes are much used and highly prized, especially in soups; they are powerful purifiers of the blood and highly nutritious. A celebrated medical man describes the tomato “ as an invaluable article of diet/’ and ascribes to it various important medical properties. “ It is an almost sovereign remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion, and is the most healthy article of diet now in use.” Tinned tomatoes can be procured at a cheap rate and very good; they can be used where fresh tomatoes are not procurable. HARICOT BEAN SOUP. 1 lb. Beans. 2 oz. of Fat Bacon, or 1 small table-spoonful of Butter or Dripping. 2 Onions. \ Turnip. Small piece of Celery. 2 breakfast cups Milk. Salt and Pepper. Wash the beans and soak them for a day and night in cold water. Put them into a pot with 2 quarts of water, and a piece of fat pork, or a small table-spoonful of butter or dripping. Let it all boil; then add the vegetables, cleaned and roughly cut up; a little car- bonate of soda, the size of a pea, may be added, as sometimes the beans are old and very hard. Let all boil for 2£ hours, then put it through a strainer; it must be well mashed up, and use some of the milk to wash it through, as all ought to be put through, except the skins of the beans. Now add the milk; pepper and salt to taste. Warm all up in the pot, and serve. N.B.—No salt must be put in until the beans are quite boiled, as salt hardens them and renders them difficult to boil down.13 SOUPS. Half of a can of tomatoes boiled with the beans for the last half hour, and all rubbed through the strainer, makes a delightful change in this soup, and adds greatly to its valuable properties. The milk is left out when tomatoes are used. Beans have much the same component parts as cheese, and are almost as strengthening in every respect as beef. Their only want is fat, but the bacon or butter supplies that. Take 1 lb. of lentils and wash them thoroughly in many waters until they are perfectly clean; soak them for a night in cold water; then put them into a pot with the water in which they are soaked and as much more as makes quarts, or 10 breakfast- cupfuls. When this boils, add carrot, turnip, parsnip, 2 large onions, all cut up roughly, and a small pinch of carbonate of soda about the size of a pea. Allow it to boil 2 hours, then strain through a cullender, washing the lentils all through except the skins; return it to the pot to warm. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Lentil soup is delightful if nicely made, and requires no meat of any kind, or bones, as it has the taste and the good properties of butcher meat to a large extent in itself. LENTIL SOUP. 1 lb. Lentils. Carrot, Turnip, Parsnip. 2 Onions or Leeks. Pepper and Salt.14 COOKERY. WINDSOR MILK SOUP. 1 lb. Potatoes, i a Turnip. £ a Parsnip. Small bit of Celery (If possible). 2 large Leeks or Onions. Salt and Pepper. 1 oz. Butter. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar, Flour, or Sago. Put into a pot the potatoes, turnip, parsnip, celery, onions, or leeks, all cut up in small pieces, then add the sugar and butter; put it on the fire to get quite hot—add 2 quarts of water, and boil for an hour till all the vegetables are soft. Put through a strainer, using a spoon to press it through, and return it to the pot with a table-spoonful of flour that has been moistened in a breakfast-cupful of milk, and boil for five minutes, stirring frequently till it boils. Two table-spoonfuls of sago may be used instead of the flour; it should be washed and moistened in the same way as the flour, and stirred till it boils. Add salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 2\ Quarts of Water. Put into a dry, clean pot a table-spoonful of sweet dripping, or fat of some kind; let it get quite hot. Cut up the mutton into small square pieces; put it and the bones into the pot with the fat, and fry them, turning them over and over with a spoon. Cut up the carrot and turnip into small square pieces COTTAGE SOUP. £ lb. Neck of Mutton. 1 teacupful of Rice. 1 Carrot. 1 Turnip. 2 large Leeks. 1 table-spoonful Dripping. 1 teaspoonful Sugar. Salt and Pepper.15 80UPS. like the size of peas, and add them to the meat; then the leeks, washed and cut small; keep turning all over with the spoon; then add the rice, well washed, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Let the whole be turned about in the pot with the spoon for more than five minutes; then add 2| quarts of water. Put on the lid, bring it to the boil, and boil slowly rather over an hour. Add pepper and salt and it is ready. N.B.—There are 4 breakfast-cupfuls in a quart. This is an excellent vegetable soup, and a very valuable article of food from the vegetables it contains. O The fat supplies a want in the vegetables. This soup is extremely good made without any meat, and the small quantity of sugar counteracts any disagreeable effects leeks or onions may have on the stomach. GERMAN SOUP. $ lb. Neck of Mutton. 4 Potatoes. 2 good-sized Onions. 1 large red Carrot { lb. Rice. Pepper and Salt. Put the mutton, well washed, into a pot with 2^ quarts of water; when it boils, add the onions chopped up finely, the potatoes peeled and cut in very small pieces, and the carrot grated; add a teaspoonful of salt, and let the whole boil 2 hours. Then wash a teacup- ful of rice (which is ^ of a lb.) and add it, and allow the whole to boil half an hour longer. Season with enough pepper and salt, and the soup is ready. This is a delightful soup, and very cheap.COOKERY. 16 SKIRT SOUP. li lbs. Beef Skirt. 1 large Carrot. 1 Turnip. Salt and Pepper. Remove all the skin from the beef skirt and the fat, cut it up in pieces about half-an-inch square, and put the meat on in a pot with 2| quarts of cold water. Scrape and wash the carrot, peel the turnip, and cut both up in small square pieces about the size of peas; add them when the pot boils. Add also half a tea- spoonful of salt, and boil the whole for two hours. Season with pepper and salt to taste. This soup is delightful, and contains as much nourish- ment as good beef tea. Beef skirt contains a consider- able amount of good gravy, and is a part of the animal which lies just within the ribs. 1 small Cabbage or Savoy. Put the barley, mutton, and water into the pot; let them boil half-an-hour; then add the carrot, turnip, cabbage, and leeks, cut up very finely, with 1 teaspoonful of salt Let all boil for an hour and a half; add the parsley chopped up finely, enough salt and pepper to season, then serve. N.B.—Barley should be washed, and vegetables cut and left in water till they are required. To make the vegetables for this soup more delicate MUTTON BROTH. 1 lb. Neck Mutton. ^ lb. Barley. 1 large Carrot. 1 small Turnip. A little Parsley. quarts Water. Salt and Pepper. 2 large Leeks.SOUPS. 17 and digestible, cut them all up as indicated above, put them in a basin, and cover them with boiling water. When they stand thus for ten minutes, the water may be drained, and the vegetables put into the pot and boiled as above. CARROT SOUP. 6 Carrots. Celery. 1 Turnip. Stock. 2 Onions. This soup may be made of second stock, or of bones of roast beef or mutton. Put 2 quarts of stock in a stewpan, with 6 carrots, 1 small turnip, 2 onions ; a blade of celery is an improvement. The carrots must either be grated or cut in very small pieces. Add a table-spoonful of flour, wet in a little water; allow the whole to boil for hours, until the carrots are tender; pass the soup through a wire sieve or cullender ; rub the carrot through ; return to the pot to warm, and add salt and pepper. If made with raw bones the stock is much better boiled the day previous, as the fat can be taken off when the soup is cold. STOCK FROM BONES. 6 lbs. Bones. 1 Turnip. 2 Onions. Peppercorns. 1 Carrot. Raw and cooked bones should not be boiled together. © Take 6 lbs. of raw bones ; remove as much marrow and fat from them as possible; put them in a pot and cover them well with cold water (see that the bones B18 COOKERY. are all covered, as any portion remaining uncovered adds no strength to the soup) ; add 2 onions, 1 large carrot, 1 turnip, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, and boil 8 hours on a slow fire. Care must be taken that the water does not reduce too much; in that case it must be added to. The stock is best to simmer very slowly by the fire all day, and then be strained through a sieve. The next day the fat may be removed, and the stock is ready for use. GREEN PEA SOUP. 1 Peck of Pease. Stock Parsley. Mint. Onion. Sugar. Pepper and Salt. Shell the pease, which should be young; put the shells into a stewpan with a quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, and 1 of sugar; boil for one hour, then pulp through a cullender or sieve; return to the pot, and add 1 quart of good stock, made with shin of beef; add 1 onion and a few leaves of lettuce, chopped very finely, a very little parsley, mint, and the pease; boil till the vegetables are tender (about fifteen minutes); then season to taste, and serve. POTATO SOUP. 1 lb. Neck of Mutton. 1 Carrol; 2 lbs. Potatoes. Pepper and Salt 3 Onions. This soup is excellent made with bones, either raw or cooked; with any inferior piece of beef or mutton; with liquor in which tripe has been boiled; or with part of a pluck. If made from raw bones, they must19 SOUPS. be boiled for several hours before the potatoes are put in. Take the mutton and put it in a pot with three quarts of cold water; bring to the boil; pare thinly and slice small 2 lbs. potatoes, and add them to the soup when it boils. Grate a nice red carrot, chop up the onions very finely, and add all to the soup, with a little pepper and salt. Boil two hours, season to taste, and serve. The potatoes should be boiled to a pulp, and the soup be nice and thick, not watery. Wash the skate and hang it up for a day; skin it and separate the flesh from the bones; put into a soup- pot the skin, bones, and trimmings of the skate, with 2£ quarts of water and bring to the boil. Add the leeks, onions cut up, and a handful of parsley (stalks as well as leaves) well washed and roughly cut; add one tea- spoonful of salt and half as much pepper, allow it to boil for an hour and a half, till the substance is well ex- tracted; then strain it through a cullender, wash the pot, and return the liquor to it. Put a table-spoonful of flour into a basin and rub it smooth with a little milk, add the rest of the milk, and stir well; add at the same time 1 oz. of butter and a table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and the flesh of the skate cut in small square pieces; allow all to boil for twenty minutes, season to taste, and serve. This soup is made brown by browning the onions SKATE SOUP. 2 lbs. Skate. 4 Leeks. Parsley. 2 Onions. Flour. 1 pint Milk.20 COOKERY. sliced in the butter, and adding them to the stock; and instead of milk a little ketchup or brown gravy must be added. This soup may be made of any white fish in the same way. RICE SOUP. 2 quarts Stock. 4 large Leeks. 1 teacupful of whole Rice. Milk. Parsley. Salt and Pepper. Put into a pot 2 quarts of liquor in which a fowl or a knuckle of veal has been boiled. It may be improved by having a carrot and small turnip boiled along with it, which can be picked out at the last. Now add to the soup the white part of the leeks, cut up in very thin pieces, and the rice well washed, and boil for half-an-hour; then add a table-spoonful of parsley washed, dried, and chopped up very finely, a breakfast-cupful of good milk, and salt and pepper. After boiling for five minutes, the soup will be ready. BONE SOUP. Bones. 2 Carrots. 2 Onions. 1 Turnip. Parsley. Celery. Pepper and Salt. Milk. Take any mutton bones, or such as may have been in rolled mutton, and put them in a saucepan with 2 quarts of water; bring to the boil, then add 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, and 2 potatoes, all cut up very finely; chop up a good sprig of parsley and a piece of celery (if to be had), and add a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Boil all for two hours, when 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mixed smooth in a breakfast-cupful of milk, should beSOUPS. 21 added. Keep boiling for a quarter of an hour then take out the bones and 3erve. To make stock for kidney soup, take all the marrow from the shin of beef and put it into a soup pot with 2 quarts of water. Bring it to the boil. Add the carrot, turnip, and onions, cut up into pieces, and allow all to boil at least 3 hours, when it must be strained. Take a fresh ox kidney, wash it well and dry it. Re- move all the fat from the middle, and cut up the kidney into half-inch pieces. Put the butter in a stew-pan and let it get quite brown, but not burnt; then put in the pieces of kidney and fry them all round. When quite fried, stir in a table-spoonful of flour and mix it well till the flour has absorbed all the moisture in the pan, then add a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of pepper, dry mustard, and sugar, stirring all till they become a paste in the pan. Now add 2 breakfast- cupfuls of water, and stir over the fire till it boils. Set it on a slow part of the fire, and allow it all to boil for at least 2 hours, stirring frequently. Return the strained stock to the pot, and add the kidney to it. Mix in a basin the corn-flour and a little water, and pour this also into the pot with enough of salt to season the whole, stirring occasionally till it boils, when the soup is ready. This soup, if well made, requires no artificial brown- ing; it may be made still browner by leaving the skins on the onions, which must be well washed. KIDNEY SOUP. 1 lb. Sbin of Beef. 1 Ox Kidney. 1 oz. Butter. Flour. 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, 2 Onions. 2 table-spoonfuls Corn-flour. Pepper, Salt, Mustard, Sugar.COOKERY. 22 ONION SOUP. Small Knuckle of Veal. 6 large Onions. 1 small Turnip. 1 Parsnip. Piece of Celery. Blade of Mace. Salt, Pepper, and Sugar. Flour, Butter. Put the knuckle of veal on to boil with 2 quarts of cold water, allowing it to boil an hour. Peel and cut up the onions and soak them for an hour in cold water; also cut up into small pieces the turnip, parsnip, and celery, and add them to the soup, along with the mace, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Let all boil 2 hours and strain, rubbing the onions through the strainer, then return the soup to the pot, and add a small tablespoon- ful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed to- gether, and a breakfast-cupful of milk—stirring it till it boils. Allow it to boil five minutes, when the soup is ready; after which season to taste. This soup is made frequently without meat, leaving out the veal, and making it in every other respect the same. Put into a flat stew-pan an ounce of butter, or some fat ham cut in small pieces (there should be a table-spoonful). When it is hot, put in 2 middle-sized onions sliced, and fry them; then add half a tin of TOMATO SOUP. Small table spoonful Butter or Fat. 2 Onions. 3 table-spoonfuls Tapioca. 2 quarts Stock. Pepper and Salt. & a tin Tomatoes, or 1 lb. Tomatoes.23 SOUPS. tomatoes, or a lb. of fresh tomatoes, cut up roughly in pieces. Let this all stew for about 20 minutes, after which rub it through a sieve or cullender to keep back the seeds and to pulp the tomatoes and onions. Have 2 quarts of common stock made either with a small piece of mutton, veal, or beef; it need not be rich, as the very plainest is quite good for this soup. Add the pulp of the tomatoes, etc., to the stock, and set it on the fire to boil; then put in 3 table-spoonfuls of tapioca which has been soaked for an hour in either warm or cold water, and keep stirring till it boils. The soup will be ready after boiling for 10 minutes, and having pepper and salt added to it. N.B.—If fresh tomatoes are used, half a cupful of water may be put in along with them. HOTCH-POTCH. 3 lbs. Neck of Mutton or Lamb. 6 young Turnips. 6 young Carrots. 6 young Onions, quarts of Water. 1 Lettuce. 1 Cauliflower. 2 pints of Green Peas. 1 handful of Parsley. Salt. Put rather more than half of the mutton or lamb in the soup pot, with the water and a little salt; when it boils skim it carefully, and allow it to boil for an hour. Cut up the remainder of the mutton or lamb into small chops and add them, also the turnips and carrots; cut up in neat square pieces the onions and half of the peas, and allow it to boil for half an hour longer. Chop up the lettuce, divide the cauliflower into sprigs, chop the parsley finely, and add all to the soup, with the remainder of the peas, and boil for another half hour, when season to taste and serve.FISH. The varieties of fish available for food in this country are numerous and excellent; those containing the least fat are the most easily digested. The flesh of fish contains fibrine, gelatine, and albumen in small pro- portions, mineral matter and water in larger. Whiting, haddock, cod, plaice, and soles are nearly equally digestible, and even suitable for the food of invalids. Salmon, mackerel, and herring are more oily, and not quite so digestible. The common herring con- tains a large amount of nourishment, and if cooked so as to get rid of some of its superabundant oil, con- tains a large amount of nourishment at a cheap rate. Lobsters and crabs are not easily digested, and to some people are injurious. They are rather coarse feeders, and this may, to some extent, account for their indiges- tibility. All fish out of season are unwholesome, and sometimes positively injurious. Buckland, who has given so much information on the nature and habits of fish, writes very emphatically against the taking and using of fish out of season. It is said that fish are fully as nutritious as animal food; and though they may not have such a satisfying effect upon the stomach, that arises from their being so easily digested. They are not only good food, but food of the best description, well able to supply the wants of the body, suitable for young and old, healthy people and invalids.nsfL 25 TO FRY FISH, Etc. All fish are fried in a somewhat similar manner, and a few general directions may be given. Fish that are to be fried should be made perfectly dry, and, to accomplish this, must be covered either with flour or bread crumbs. The fat should be perfectly hot, i.e., at the temperature of at least 345° Fah. This is ascertained in several ways. The best is to use a thermometer; but as that is not always to be had, a very good way is to put the fat on the fire and allow it to get hot till it begins to smoke. It mus-t be quite still, lor as long as fat bubbles there is water in it. When the fat becomes quite still, and slightly smokes, put the fish in and fry till they become a light brown. Another good rule is to have plenty of fat to cover whatever you wish to fry. After the fish are fried, put them on a cloth or coarse paper before the fire to drain. Those rules of the heat of fat refer to all kinds of frying, fritters, eta 3 SmaU Whitings or Haddocks. Bread-crumbs. Egg. Pepper and Salt. Lard or Dripping. Have nice fresh haddocks or whitings; wash and dry them well, and rub them with a little flour in which is mixed some pepper and salt; beat up an egg on a plate, cover the fish well with it, and roll them in dry bread-crumbs. Prepare the fat for frying as directed above, and put the fish in, not many at a time, as the26 COOKERY. temperature of the fat must not be reduced too much. A few minutes is enough to fry the fish if the fat quite covers them; if it does not, turn them over and fry them on the other side. They ought to be of a nice brown colour; and if proper attention is paid to the heat of the fat the fish will be perfectly whole. They are equally well fried without the egg and bread-crumbs, using only flour to dry them, but they do not look quite so well. A slice of a large fish, or fillets of fish, should all be fried in the same way. Melted butter may be served with them. Haddocks are the better of being skinned; but the skin of whiting is very delicate, and does not require to be removed. BOILED HADDOCK OR COD. 3 lbs. Cod. | Salt. Procure a piece of cod weighing 3 lbs., or a haddock of similar weight; scrape very clean, and, if quite fresh, an hour or two in salt is an improvement. Have a fish kettle containing plenty of boiling water, well flavoured with salt; put the fish in and boil for one minute, then pour in a cupful of cold water, gently, to reduce the heat, and allow the fish to cook in the water, below boiling heat, for about fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the thickness of the fish ; it must be immediately taken out and drained, as to allow fish to remain in water after it is boiled spoils it; dish it on napkin with some parsley to garnish, and serve with melted butter in a sauceboat, separately.27 Fisa FISH PUDDING. 1 lb Fish. Potatoes. 1 Egg. Pepper and Salt. 1 oz. Butter. Take any remains of boiled fish; carefully remove the flesh from the bones, and cut it up into small dice, and have equal bulk of mashed potatoes. Put both into a basin and mix them together with a fork, then melt the butter and pour it in, mixing well; add salt and pepper and a few grains of cayenne pepper; beat up one egg and add it last; mix all well together; put it in a pudding-dish, smooth and score it neatly at the top, and bake for half an hour. The same mixture is very good made into small round cakes. Flour them well outside. Put a table-spoonful of dripping in a frying pan to get quite hot; put in a few cakes at a time to fry a brown colour on both sides. Then drain and serve. They are a breakfast dish. Procure a fine fresh haddock of 2 lbs. weight; wash and scrape it quite clean; take out the eyes and dry it outside and inside, then prepare the following stuffing :— a teacupful of bread-crumbs, | oz. of suet or butter, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped herbs, pepper and salt; either an egg or a little milk moistens this. Form the stuffing like a BAKED HADDOCK. 1 Haddock. Bread-crumbs. Parsley. Herbs. Suet. Pepper and Salt. I Egg.OOOKERY. 28 sausage, place it in the belly of the fish, and sew it up; truss the haddock into the form of the letter S, brush the top over with a little beaten egg, sprinkle bread- crumbs over, and put it in the oven to bake for half an hour. It must be frequently basted with fresh dripping while baking. Serve with melted butter. TO STEW FISH. lbs. Fish. 1 Onion. Vinegar. Flour. 1 oz. Butter or Dripping. Pepper and Salt. Any of the coarser kinds of fish do well to stew; and the different varieties of fish stews have always been favourite dishes where fish are easily procured. Cut up the fish into pieces about 2 inches long, after being well washed and cleaned. Put the dripping or butter into a small stew-pan, and let it get quite hot; chop up the onion and fry it brown in the hot fat; sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of flour into the pan, and stir it smooth; then add a teaspoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and a breakfast-cupful of water. Stir till it boils; then put in the pieces of fish, put on the lid, and let them simmer very gently for ten minutes. Skate (which stews very well) takes twenty minutes, or even longer; but in general, ten minutes is quite enough time. Serve with the sauce over the fish. SALT FISH, TO COOK. 1 lb. Salt Ling or Cod. 1 oz. Butter. Flour. Milk. 1 Egg. Salted fish are neither so nutritious nor so profitable1 as fresh fish; because salt extracts the juices from the fish, and greatly wastes its nourishing properties.29 FISH. Out up the fish Into convenient pieces and soak it all night in cold water. Either scrape the skin till it is white, or pull it off altogether. Put the fish on in a stew-pan, covered with cold water, to boil for three- quarters of an hour, or longer if very hard; take it up on a dish and drain the water entirely from it, wiping the dish quite dry. Boil the egg hard, i.e., for ten minutes; take off the shell and chop it up. Take a small sauce-pan and put in it an ounce of butter and a dessert-spoonful of flour, stirring them together over the fire; then add a breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir till it boils; add the chopped-up egg, and mix. Pour the whole over the fish, and serve. Boil about 9 potatoes, and mash them quite smoothly, adding a very little milk to moisten them. Have the fish boiled (the remains of fish previously cooked will do). Put into a small pudding-dish 3 spoonfuls of the mashed potatoes and spread it over the bottom of the dish; then put in the fish, broken up with a fork into flakes; over that sprinkle a table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and a very small onion chopped up. Then add half a teaspoonful of mustard made with vinegar instead of water, and a few small bits of dripping or butter, and cover all with the remainder of the mashed potatoes, making the top smooth, and SALT FISH PIE. i lb. Fish. Parsley. Onion.. Potatoes. Mustard. Vinegar. Pepper. Dripping,30 COOKERY. marking it neatly. Put the pie into an oven for three- quarters of an hour, or on a toaster in front of the fire, to brown the potatoes nicely. Fresh herrings should not be washed, unless in ex- ceptional circumstances. They should be emptied, the heads taken off, the scales scraped off, and then the herrings well wiped. With a sharp knife, split the herring up the back and lay it open; cut it in half; lift the bone out, beginning at the head; now roll each half up into a nice firm roll, beginning at the head; from 6 herrings you will have 12 of those rolls. Stand them in a small pudding dish with the back uppermost—they will quite fill the dish. Now pour in half a teacupful of water and one-third of a teacupful of vinegar mixed, a bay leaf slipped in at the side, and the pepper and salt. Cover the dish over with a plate, and cook at the side of the fire, or in the oven, for half an hour. The herrings may be served in the dish in which they are cooked. They are good either hot or cold. Prepare as above—namely, empty the herrings, take off the heads, scrape the scales off, and wipe them quite clean; then split them open from the back and lay them flat. Dust over them a little pepper and salt BAKED HERRINGS. 6 fresh Herrings. ^ teaspoonful Salt. £ teaspoonful Pepper. J teacupful Vinegar. 1 Bay Leaf. £ teacupful Water. FRIED FRESH HERRINGS.FISH. 31 Have a nice clean frying pan quite hot; place the herrings in it, the skin next the pan, and fry them for five minutes; then turn and fry the other side about the same time. Always fry the skin side first. Good herrings should need no dripping, as they contain sufficient oil in themselves to fry in. SALMON TO BOIL. Empty the salmon and wash it, but handle the fish as little as possible, to prevent the scales from being rubbed off. Put into a fish-kettle enough water to cover the fish, with salt in the proportion of a table-spoonful to each gallon of water. When it boils put the fish in, and let it boil for 5 minutes, then put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water in to reduce the temperature, and put the kettle on a cooler part of the fire; allow it to remain thus under boiling point for the proper time, then take the fish-kettle off the fire and allow it to stand for 10 minutes before removing the salmon. This improves the flavour and makes the fish firmer. Table of Time to Boil Salmon. A slice weighing 1 lb. requires a quarter of an hour. ,, 3 lbs. „ 25 minutes. 6 lbs. from a thick fish „ 40 minutes. A grilse weighing about 7 or 8 lbs., half an hour.MEAT. TO STEW AND BOAST. For the cooking of all meat which is not to be made into soup, but either stewed, roasted, or broiled, one rule, without exception, applies—namely, that the out- side of the meat be quickly subjected to strong heat, in order to shut up all the pores, after which a slower process of cooking should be proceeded with, such as suits each particular kind of meat. To stew meat is the most profitable of those three methods of cooking, as no part of the meat is lost, and there is besides a good gravy which supplements it. The principle of all stewing, whether applied to beef, mutton, chicken, or game, is, first of all, to put into a pot some kind of fat (either butter, suet, or dripping) and make it quite hot; then put in the piece of meat, small or large, and fry it all round to shut up the pores; then put in less or more water or other liquid, and stew the meat for the given time. This rule applies alike to small pieces of steak or large joints. The reason is, that the heat hardens the albumen in the meat all over the surface, and stops up the pores like sealing-wax on bottles; the juice is thus kept in, so that the meat cooked is much more savoury. Roasting is a more wasteful way of cooking; but roasted meat, if well cooked, is more easily digested A roast should be put very near a hot fire for five minutes to shut up the pores, and afterwards put aSTEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. 33 good deal further back, and cooked more slowly. The secret of having meat well roasted is to have an even heat, and to baste it very frequently. Basting keeps the meat from drying up, and the action of the fire on the hot fat with which it is basted keeps the surface of the meat well crusted over, and all the juice retained in the joint. Broiling or grilling is really just roasting a small slice of meat instead of a large piece. It certainly is not a very economical mode of cooking, but, if well done and not over-cooked, is very easily digested and nourishing. The principle is exactly the same as roasting :—Let the meat be put on a hot gridiron over a clear hot fire for a minute or two to shut up the pores, turning both sides to the fire ; afterwards a little slower, to cook it to the heart. Eight or ten minutes is enough to grill steak nearly an inch thick; of course a little depends upon the fire, but no grilling is well executed unless the fire is clear and quite free from smoke. Both roasted and broiled meat are spoiled if over-done. Broiled meat should be turned very often, and thus bastes itself, just as roasted meat requires to be basted. Frying and frying-pans have been very much abused of late years; and one hears of “dirty frying-pans and greasy messes,” but there is no need for the frying-pan to be dirty, or the food greasy; and for certain kinds of flesh and fish, frying is a very good mode of cooking. Almost without exception, the rule above applied to roasting and stewing applies to frying. The meat to be fried should be put either on a hot pan to shut up the pores, or in hot fat for the same purpose. This has always the effect of retaining the juices in the meat, and consequently making it more tender. The more the juices belonging4 to fish, flesh, or fowl are bottledCOOKERY. 34 up, the more tender and digestible the meat will be. Flesh that is fried should not be over-cooked, as, in that case, it gets dry and indigestible. Pork takes a longer time, either to roast or fry, than other flesh; and it should always be well cooked, as> when underdone, is very disagreeable and unwholesome. White flesh of all kinds, either of animals or fowls, takes a longer time than brown, and requires to be more thoroughly cooked. OX-TAIL STEWED. 1 Ox-tall Flour. Ketchup. Dripping. 1 Onion. Carrot and Turnip. Pepper and Salt. Wash the tail well in warm water, and cut it up at the joints; the larger joints may be cut in two. Dry the pieces well, and mix on a plate a table-spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Rub each piece of tail over with this mixture. Put into a stew-pan a table-spoonful of dripping, and let it get quite hot; then fry the pieces of tail all round in it, and lift them out when done. Pour out the fat that remains, and return the pieces of tail to the pan with the onion chopped up, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and the ketchup, and stew gently for an hour and a half. Cut the carrot and turnip into very neat pieces, add them, and stew for three-quarters of an hour longer. If well and slowly cooked, this is a delightful stew, as the ox-tail contains a great deal of gelatine. Dish the meat in the centre of a dish with the vege- tables round it.35 STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. OX KIDNEY STEWED. 1 Ox Kidney. 1 table spoonful Flour. Mustard. Sugar. Butter. Ketchup. 1 Onion. Pepper and Salt. Wash an ox kidney well and dry it thoroughly; then cut it up into thin slices after all the fat has been removed from the middle. Put into a small stew-pan a dessert-spoonful of butter; let it get quite hot and quite brown; chop up the onion and fry it slightly; then put in the pieces of kidney and fry them well. Sprinkle in gradually the flour, and stir till it is quite mixed with the moisture in the pan. Add, now, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of pepper, dry mustard, and sugar—a table-spoonful of ketchup may be added. Stir all well over the fire till it be quite dry, like a paste. Now add a breakfast-cupful and a half of water, and stir till it boils up; put on the lid, and allow it to stew very gently for an hour and a half. Serve with nicely-shaped pieces of toasted bread round. Butter or Dripping. Wash the rabbit well and dry it thoroughly outside and inside; then cut it up into joints, after taking off the head and removing the heart and liver. In order to dry it still better, rub over each piece with flour. Put into a stew-pan a dessert-spoonful of butter, or dripping—let it get quite hot; then put in the pieces RABBIT STEWED. 1 Rabbit. Flour. 1 Onion. Pepper and Salt.36 OOOKERY. of rabbit and fry them. When all are fried, add a breakfast cupful of water, an onion finely chopped up, and the heart and liver. Take out the eyes, and wash the head well; add it also, and stew the whole slowly with the lid closely on for one hour, stirring it occasion- ally. Dish neatly, and pour the sauce over. STEAK STUFFED AND ROLLED. 1 lb. Steak. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Grated Bread. 2 table-spoonfuls Suet, chopped. 1 Egg. 1 table-spoonful Parsley, chopped. 1 teaspoonful Salt. % teaspoonful Pepper. Dripping. Carrot and Onions, Get two thin slices of steak, cut from the top of the rump, weighing half a pound each, and about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put the grated bread, the suet, the parsley, pepper, and salt into a bowl, and mix them well. Beat up the egg well, and stir it in among the bread-crumbs, etc., in the basin ; with the hand knead it to wet the whole mixture, and gather it into a lump; but if the egg is not enough to moisten the mixture, add a very little milk or water. Divide the stuffing into two pieces, and shape them like a turkey’s egg; roll this neatly into each piece of steak, and tie it up with string. Each piece should be very neatly shaped. Put into a stew-pan a dessert-spoonful of nice drip- ping, and when it has got quite hot, fry the pieces of meat in it. Pour off any dripping that remains, and put into the pan a cupful and a half of water, and allow37 STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. it to stew for a quarter of an hour; then add two onions, and a pretty large carrot cut in quarters lengthways, and a little salt, and stew for an hour. Take off the string from the steak, and place it on a dish; arrange the vegetables neatly round, and pour the sauce over. Put into a pot the dripping, and let it get hot; then slice the onions, and fry them gently in it. Wash the mutton well, and put it in the pot with the clean water that hangs about it. Put the lid instantly and closely on the pot, and let it stew slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Take a nice firm cabbage, wash it, remove the withered leaves, and cut it into eight pieces lengthways, like the divisions of an orange; place the cabbage in water; peel 6 potatoes and cut them in slices half an inch thick, and place them also in the water. When the meat has stewed for three-quarters of an hour, lift the cabbage, dripping with water, and the potatoes, and pack both round the meat; sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and replace the lid closely and quickly, and stew for three-quarters of an hour. It must be cooked slowly, else it will burn. The whole is cooked by steam, and is a most delicious as well as profitable dish. DUTCH STEW, l£ lbs. Neck of Mutton. 1 small firm Cabbage. 6 Potatoes. 2 Onions. £ table-spoonful Dripping. Pepper and Salt.COOKERY. 38 MUTTON STUFFED AND ROLLED. 4 lbs. Mutton. 2 Onions. Bread-crumbs. Parsley. Herbs. Pepper and Salt. Procure a nice breast of mutton; take off the shoulder-blade; take all the bones out; cut off any superfluous edges of fat, and, with a rolling-pin, flatten the mutton by beating it welL Now take a breakfast- cupful of bread-crumbs, a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped herbs (thyme and mar- joram if to be had), pepper and salt enough to season the whole, and, after mixing all well, then moisten it with a little milk. Spread the mixture on the mutton, and roll it tightly up, tying it with tape in at least three places. Place it then in a dish, and put it in the oven for a quarter of an hour to draw out a good deal of the fat from it. Put two table-spoonfuls of this fat into a stew-pan and let it get hot; slice the onions and fry them till pretty brown in the fat; then add the mutton. Put into a basin a table-spoonful of flour, a little pepper and salt; rub the flour smooth with a very little water, and then add two breakfast-cupfuls of water, and mix. Now pour this thickening into the pan with the mutton, put on the lid, and let all stew very slowly for two hours. Then take up the mutton and put it on a dish, after cutting off the tape. Eemove as much fat as possible from the top of the sauce, and pour it over the mutton. See that the sauce is not too thick.STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. 39 BREAST OF VEAL STUFFED AND ROLLED. Breast of Veal. 1 Egg. £ lb. Bacon Ham. Pepper and Salt. Breakfast-cupful grated Bread. Take a fore quarter of half-fed veal, or the thin part of the breast of fed veal, weighing about 5 or 6 lbs. Remove all the bones, taking care not to break the outside skin. Take off all the rough or uneven pieces of the veal in the inside and mince them up as finely as possible; mince also the ham finely—it should not be too fat. Put the chopped meat, ham, grated bread, half a teaspoonful each ofj pepper and salt in a basin, and, with the hand, mix them thoroughly together; beat up an egg well, add it, and mix well. Lay the veal out on a table with the skin next the table; spread the stuffing neatly over the surface of the meat, leaving an inch bare all round; then roll it up tightly, and either sew it up or tie it in several places with broad tape. Put a teaspoonful of butter into a stew-pan large enough to hold it, and when hot, put in the roll of veal and fry it all round; add an onion chopped up, then put in a breakfast-cupful of water and stew gently for two hours. Take it up and untie the fastenings. The gravy should be thickened with a dessert-spoonful of flour, seasoned with a table-spoonful of ketchup and a little salt and pepper, and strained over the veal. To Bake the Roll. The veal may be put into a roasting pan with a breakfast-cupful of boiling water, covered with another pan or dish, and put into the oven for an hour and a half. It is very nice done thus. The gravy must be thickened and poured over. It is good either hot or cold.COOKERY. 40 HARICOT MUTTON. 1 lb. Shoulder of Mutton. 1 Carrot. 6 small Onions. 1 larger one. 1 Bmall Turnip. Flour. Dripping. Pepper and Salt. Cut the mutton into neat pieces the thickness of chops, and about 2 inches square, as near as may be. Put into a stew-pan a table-spoonful of good dripping, and let it get quite hot—which is when it begins to smoke. Slice the largest onion and fry it in the hot dripping till very brown; then lay in the mutton and fry all the pieces well, lifting them out as they are done. When all are fried, pour the dripping out of the pan, leaving the onions in the bottom. Now mix in a small basin a table-spoonful of flour, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a little pepper with 11 breakfast- cupfuls of water; stir all well and pour it into the pan, and keep stirring over the fire till it boils up. Strain it into a bowl to keep back the fried onions, and make it smooth. Return it to the pan and lay the chops into it; put on the lid and stew gently for half an hour. Peel the six small onions, and cut up the carrot and turnip into very neatly-shaped pieces, and put them in the pan; allow the whole to stew twenty minutes longer without stirring it, as the vegetables must not be broken. Dish the meat neatly with the vegetables round, and pour the sauce over all.STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. 41 BOILED MEAT PUDDING, 1 lb. Lean Beef. 1 Sbeep’s Kidney. £ lb. Flour. \ teaspoonful Baking Powder. i lb. Suet. Pepper and Salt. Put the flour into a basin; add to it a pinch of salt and the baking powder; then chop the suet very finely and mix it in, rubbing it into the flour with the fingers. Add as much cold water as will wet it, and make it up into a stiff piece of paste, then flour the table and roll it out into a round piece scarcely half an inch thick. Take a pudding bowl that holds a pint, rub it inside with clean dripping, line it neatly with the paste, which then cut even round the edges. Mix together on a plate a table-spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper for seasoning. Cut the meat in thin slices, dip them in the seasoning, and place them lightly in the basin; split the kidney, skin and cut it in thin slices; dip them also in the seasoning, and put them into the bowl, and pour in a teacupful of water for gravy. Wet the edges of the paste on the bowl; roll out the scraps that remain large enough to cover the dish; place it on, press down at the edges, and sprinkle a little flour over the top. Now dip a pudding-cloth in boiling water, tie it tightly over the top, and plunge the pudding in plenty of boiling water; then boil it for two and a half hours. Remove the cloth, and turn the pudding out on a dish. Liver and bacon mixed, or mutton, makes a good pudding of this kind.42 COOKERY. STEAK STEWED, 1 lb. Steak. 1 Carrot. 1 small Turnip. Flour. 1 Onion. Butter. Pepper and Salt. Have the steak tender, and cut it about three-quarters of an inch thick; put into a small-sized stew-pan an ounce of butter or dripping—the butter, however, is preferable —and let it become quite hot; cut the onion in rings and fry it in the butter till it becomes very brown; also scrape and cut up the carrot and fry it as well. This trying of the vegetables brown colours the gravy nicely. When quite brown, lift the vegetables out on a plate, and put the steak in to fry on both sides; it should be fried crisp so as to shut up the pores of the meat and keep the juice in. If any butter remains in the pan it should be poured out. The vegetables are then returned to the pan, and the meat placed on the top of them; cut up the turnip in smallish pieces, and add it; a leaf of celery is a great improvement. Now put into a basin a small table-spoonful of flour with salt and pepper to taste, and rub it smooth with a little cold water; when quite smooth, add a breakfast-cupful and a half of cold water, and stir; now pour this into the stew-pan, and put it on the fire to come to boiling point; after that it must be allowed to simmer very slowly for an hour and a half. Serve the steak on a hot dish, and strain the sauce over it, as by this time all the substance has been extracted from the vegetables.STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. 43 BEEF STEAK PIE. l£ lbs. of Steak. 2 Sheep’s Kidneys. Seasoning. ^ lb. Flour. | lb. Butter. 1 Egg. Cut the steak very thinly, and dip it in a seasoning made of a table-spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper. Eoll up the seasoned pieces of steak and lay them in a pie-dish; put a layer of meat in the bottom of the dish; skin the sheep’s kidneys, or half an ox kidney, and cut them up in thin slices, leaving out the fat in the middle of the kidney; dip them also in the seasoning; repeat till the meat is used up and the dish is full; pile it high in the middle, put in some water in the dish for gravy, and then make the crust as follows :— Beat up an egg on a plate; put on a board half a pound of flour, quarter pound of butter, half a tea- spoonful baking-powder; mix the baking-powder with the flour; chop the butter into pieces the size of a nut among the flour; now pour about a gill of water in the middle of the flour, and the half of the egg; with these make it up into a stiff paste, which roll out lengthways, keeping the edges as straight as possible, and about a quarter of an inch thick; fold this piece in three, turn it round, and roll lengthways again; fold in three, turn it round, and roll once more. This time it may be rolled rather larger than the size required for the dish. Wet the edge of the dish and put a narrow band of paste round; wet the band, place on it the remainder of the paste, which cut to the size of the dish, then notch the edges very neatly, and brush over with the half egg you have left. Make a large hole in the top,44 COOKERY. and into this put the ends of some leaf-shaped pieces of paste, with au ornament in the centre; egg the leaves and bake. After the crust begins to brown, cover it with a buttered paper, and bake for an hour and a half. STEAK AND ONIONS FRIED. 1 lb. Steak. Ketchup. Flour. Pepper and Salt. 3 Onions. Take three onions, slice them in rings, and put them in a small basin of cold water to soak for an hour to take away some of the strong flavour. Now take a large frying-pan, and put in it an ounce of suet chopped up, or dripping, and, after allowing it to get hot, put in the steak (which should be fully half an inch thick) to fry. It should be on a very moderate fire, and turned very often till it is cooked, which it will be in about eight minutes. If it is firm to the touch when pressed, it is ready. The onions should be drained and put between the folds of a towel to dry, then put in the pan with the steak if there is room, and fried at the same time; they should have a little colour, without being over- browned. The steak is dished up with the onions round it. Put in the pan a teaspoonful of flour, sprinkled in, a table-spoonful of ketchup, pepper and salt, and a teacupful of water; stir them till they boil, and strain the sauce over the steak. The flour and the ketchup may be omitted.STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. 45 SCOTCH COLLOP. 1 lb. Steak. 1 oz. Butter or Dripping. 1 oz. Flour Pepper and Salt. 3 Onions. Take a pound of shoulder-steak, cut very thinly; put in a stew-pan an ounce of butter or dripping, and let it get quite hot; then put in the steak cut in pieces about 3 inches square or so; let this fry well on both sides till the outside is crisp; sprinkle in a table-spoonful of flour; stir it round till it has mixed well, then add the onions, either cut in rings or chopped up, some pepper and salt, three-quarters of a pint of water, and stir until it boils up; after that let it simmer very slowly for an hour and a half. This stew should be kept quite below boiling point until it is done, as boiling hardens the meat. Have a nice piece of the thick part of the hough, about 4 or 5 lbs.; take all the marrow from the bone, cut it in little bits, and put in a stew-pan on the fire. After the marrow has become quite hot, put in the piece of meat and fry it brown all round, particularly at the ends, to shut up the pores of the meat; when quite well fried, pour off any remains of fat in the pot and add a pint of water; put the lid closely on and allow it to stew very slowly for an hour; now add a carrot cut in quarters, a turnip neatly cut, and two HOUGH OF BEEF STEWED, Hough of Beef. Carrot. Turnip. Onions.COOKERY. 46 onions halved. Allow all to stew for an hour and a half longer. Slow stewing makes the muscles of the shin to swell and become very tender; but if cooked too fast, this piece of meat is spoiled. This is a profitable as well as a very nice dish, if stewed for two and a half or three hours. Put the meat on a dish with the vegetables round, and the gravy poured over. N.B.—Care must be taken that the gravy does not dry up too much, and that the stewing is extremely slow. IRISH STEW. 1 lb. Mutton. j l£ lbs. Potatoes. 3 Onions. | Pepper and Salt. Cut up the meat in rather small pieces, and put it in a stew-pan with a cupful of water, and allow it to stew for half an hour. Pare the potatoes and slice them about half an inch thick, and put them in a basin; pour over them plenty of boiling water, and cover them up. The same may be done to the onions if a strong taste is objected to, but for this dish the onions should only be chopped and added. Drain the potatoes when the meat has stewed for a quarter of an hour, and put them in the stew-pan on the top of the meat; add the onions, pepper and salt, a cupful of more water, and stew very slowly for three-quarters of an hour. By this time the potatoes will be cooked, but not pulpy. Dish high in a plate and serve hot.47 STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. TOAD IN A HOLE. £ lb. Flour. 1 Egg. 1 pinch Salt . f pint Milk. £ lb. Sausages. Put into a basin the flour and salt; beat the egg well, and after mixing it with the milk, pour gradually among the flour, beating it with a spoon. When quite smooth, pour it into a pudding-dish; put the sausages in among the batter, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Pieces of apples, some gooseberries, rhubarb, or pieces of cold meat or fish may be substituted for the sausages, and all make a good dish. The fruit requires a little sugar, and sugar must also be used along with the pudding. SCOTCH HAGGIS. 1 Sheep’s Pluck. $ lb. Suet. J lb. Oatmeal. A Sheep’s Stomach. 1 Onion. Pepper and Salt. Procure a sheep’s pluck and stomach-bag; wash the pluck well, and put it on in a pot to boil, allowing the windpipe to hang out of the pot, so that any impurities will come out by it; boil gently from one and a half to two hours. Get the stomach-bag nicely cleaned by the butcher; wash it thoroughly, and put it on in cold water, and bring to the boil, which will cause the bag to contract. Take it out of the pot immediately, wash and scrape it well, and lay it in salt and water until needed. Mince the best part of the lungs and the heart, leaving out all gristly parts; grate the best partsCOOKERY. 48 of the liver, and put all in a large basin. Toast well the oatmeal, and add to it the contents of the basin. Chop the suet very finely; add a middling-sized onion very finely chopped up; two teaspoonfuls of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, a breakfast-cupful of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled to moisten, and mix the whole. Now take up the stomach-bag; keep the fat or smooth side inside, and fill it up, but not quite full; sew up the opening, and put in boiling water to boil gently for three hours. Prick the haggis several times with a darning-needle to prevent it from bursting; also put a plate under it to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pot. KIDNEY PUDDING. Z Sheep’s Kidneys. 2 teacupfuls of Bread- crumbs. 1 teaspoonful of Suet. 1 teacupful of Milk. Nutmeg. 1 Egg. Parsley. Herbs. Pepper and Salt. Skin the kidneys and mince them very finely; also mince the suet, and put both in a basin with the bread- crumbs; add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a very little chopped thyme and grated nutmeg, half a tea- spoonful of salt and a quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and mix all well together. Beat up the egg and mix it with the milk, then stir both into the pudding. Pour it into a plain shape or bowl buttered; cover with paper, and steam for an hour. Pour brown sauce over it, and serve hot.STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. 49 FOWL TRUSSED AND BOILED. Have the fowl plucked all except the head; and singe it by passing it through the flame of white paper, hut taking care not to blacken the bird by coming into contact with the paper. Wipe away all the brown particles left by the singeing; place the fowl on its breast and cut a slit along the neck; pull out the neck and cut it off as near the body as possible, then pull out the stomach and windpipe, and, with the forefinger, loosen the heart and liver. Turn the fowl on its back and make a good large cut just under the vent; at this opening empty the fowl very tidily; dip a cloth in hot water and wipe out the fowl from both ends, and then dry it well. In hot weather, if the fowl is long kept, wipe it out with soda and water, or with vinegar, and then with fresh water. To Truss it. Fold back the first point of the wings; take off the legs, and push the thigh bone well up. Take a skewer and with it catch up the end of the wing and the back joint of the leg, run it over the back and catch the other leg and wing in the same way; put a trussing- needle and a bit of string through the side bone of the fowl over the ends of the legs, and tie it firmly round the end of the back-bone. Have a pot with two quarts of water boiling, into which put the fowl with the breast down, and boil it an hour, or an hour and a half, according to age. When boiled, take it up and remove the skewer and string, and pour over it egg sauce, or any other white sauce preferable r>COOKERY. 50 A GOOD BREAKFAST DISH 4 lbs. Pork. 1 Pig’s Tongue, Sage. Onions. Pepper. Take a piece of pickled pork, the thin part of the belly, which should be about eight or nine inches broad, and rather more than that long; take out the bones and flatten it a little; get a good pig’s tongue which, like the pork, has been salted for a few days; sprinkle on the pork a few leaves of sage chopped finely, and a middling-sized onion chopped; also some pepper. Roll the tongue up in the middle of the pork into a nice roll; bind it outside with a long slip of calico, rolled round neatly and tightly. Put it on covered with cold water, and boil gently for four or five hours, allowing it to become nearly cold in the water, and when quite cold remove the bandage. Chop up any kind of cooked meat very finely. On the table where it was chopped, mix with it a table-spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Put nearly a teacupful of water uito a pan, and a table-spoonful of ketchup, or a little gravy if to be had; add the mixture of meat and flour, and stir over the fire till it comes to boiling heat, when the SAUSAGE ROLLS. 1 lb. Flour. \ lb. Dripping. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. £ lb. Cold Meat. Ketchup. 1 Egg. Pepper and Salt.51 STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. flour is cooked; afterwards turn it out on a plate to get cool. This mixture should be made very tasty and nice, and quite a thick paste. Put in a basin a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and the baking powder; add the dripping broken into pieces the size of a small nut; make it into a stiff paste with water; roll it out lengthways and quite thin, then fold it in three, turn it round and roll it again lengthways; fold it in three and turn it round, and roll once more. This time roll it in any way most convenient, and about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut the sheet of paste into pieces five inches square; wet the edges of each square and place on each a spoonful of the meat; turn one side of the paste over on the meat, and overlap it with the other side; press the ends down with the back of a knife, and place the sausage rolls on a greased oven plate. Brush them over with beaten egg, and bake about a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. LIVER AND BACON. 1 Sheep’s Liver. Ketchup. J lb. fat, Pork Ham. Pepper and Salt. Flour. Wash the liver well, making a few cuts through it in order to allow the blood to be washed out. Dry it well, and cut it into slices about half an inch thick. Mix on a plate some flour with a little salt and pepper, and dip each slice in this mixture. Cut the ham in neat, small pieces, and put it on a hot, clean frying-pan to fry lightly. Take up the pieces of ham on a plate to keep hot; put the liverOOOKKRY. 52 on the pan to fry—about eight minutes—turning the slices once. The fat left on the pan after the ham is fried should be sufficient to fry the liver. Dish it neatly with a small bit of ham on each piece of liver. Put into the frying-pan a small table-spoonful of flour, a little pepper and salt, and stir till it gets mixed with the remains of the fat; pour in a breakfast-cupful of water and a table-spoonful of ketchup, if to be had, and stir over the fire till it boils. Pour or strain the sauce over the dish of liver and bacon. Onions are frequently fried in the dripping instead of the ham. CURRIED RABBIT. 1 Rabbit. 2 Onions. 1 oz. Butter. 1 Apple. Curry Powder. Salt. Take a nice rabbit, empty and wash it very well, and, after drying it thoroughly, cut it up into small joints. Have a small stew-pan, and put the butter in it to get quite hot; peel and chop up the onions, and fry them a very pale brown; add the pieces of rabbit, and fry them on all sides; peel and chop up the apple, which also add; stir in a teaspoonful of curry powder, a pinch of salt, and mix them well with the meat; add a teacupful of water, and stew for an hour. Dish with a border of boiled rice round it. Rice — to Boil. To boil rice dry and light for curry, or even to use with jam, requires a little care. Wash half a pound of rice well, and put it into boiling water with a littleSTEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. 53 salt. Let it boil for eight minutes, then drain it; pour some cold water over it, and drain it again. Return it to the sauce-pan; put the lid closely on, and let it steam on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour. It will then be found dry and light. Patna rice is best and is also cheapest. TRIPE TO CLEAN. If the tripe cannot be got cleaned, empty and wash it thoroughly with cold water; then put it in a pot with cold water, in which there is a good piece of soda; let it get hot, but on no account must it be allowed to boil; then take it out and scrape it white. Let it lie all night in cold water with a little butter milk in it, and next day it will be ready to be cooked. TRIPE AND ONIONS. 3 11)3. Tripe. 3 Onions. 1 pint Milk. Flour, Pepper, and Salt. Get the tripe cleaned by the butcher, if possible, but wash it well. Put it on in a sauce-pan covered with cold water, and bring it to the boil. When it just boils, take out the pieces of tripe and put them in a basin of cold water to wash again; take each piece out on a table and scrape it well on both sides, and cut it up in pieces about three inches square. When well scraped, washed, and cut up, put it on again, covered with cold water, and bring to the boil,COOKERY. 54 and allow it to boil gently for five hours. It is ab- solutely necessary to keep it boiling for this length of time to make the tripe tender enough. Now pour oil the water (which can be used to make soup), and replace it with the milk, which bring to the boil. Have the onions parboiled; chop them up and add them to the tripe and milk. Put into a small basin a dessertspoonful of flour, a little pepper and salt, and rub them smooth with a little cold milk; add the flour, etc., to the sauce-pan containing the tripe, and allow all to boil for a quarter of an hour. Dish up and serve very hot. Tripe is very nutritious and also very digestible, taking a much shorter time to digest than any other animal food, and is consequently an excellent food for the convalescent. The liquor in which tripe has been boiled makes excellent potato or pea soup. TRIPE STEWED. 8 lbs. Tripe. Flour. 3 Onions. Pepper and Salt. If the tripe is preferred brown, put into a stew-pan an ounce of dripping, and make it quite hot; slice the onions, and fry them in the dripping a brown colour; sprinkle in a table-spoonful of flour, stir till quite mixed and a little brown; now add three-quarters of a pint of water, with pepper and salt, and the pieces of tripe (prepared and cut up exactly as in the preceding recipe), and stew gently for half an hour.65 STEWING AND ROASTING OF MEAT. SEA PIE. 1 lb. Meat. 1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 1 Turnip. £ teaspoonful Baking Powder. £ lb. Flour. I lb. Suet. Pepper and Salt. Put the meat, cut in rather small pieces, into a middling-sized stew-pan; cut up the carrot and turnip in small pieces, and sprinkle them over the meat, and also the onion, chopped finely; then pepper and salt to taste. Pour in water to cover the meat and vege- tables; set the stew-pan on the fire, and bring to the boil. Put into a basin the flour and suet chopped very fine, and rub them together; add a pinch of salt and half a teaspoonful of baking powder, and mix all well. Make this into a paste with cold water; roll it out into a round cake the size of the stew-pan, and put it neatly upon the top of the meat and vegetables; cover closely with the lid, and let it stew gently for an hour and a half. Lift the paste carefully off, dish the meat and vegetables, and place the cake of paste on the top, and serve. Take a pound of lean cooked meat and chop it up very finely; soak a thick slice of bread in milk, and press the milk well out when quite soaked; beat it up with a fork, add it to the beef, and mix all well COLD MEAT MINCE. 2 Eggs. Bread. Milk. 1 lb. Cooked Meat. Onion, Carrot, and Turnip Flour. Ketchup. Pepper and Salt.56 COOKERY. together; add pepper and salt to taste; now beat up one egg and mix it with the meat and bread. Have a nice deep pudding-dish, butter it well inside, and cut up, in small pieces, a hard boiled egg. Ornament the bottom and sides of the pudding-dish very neatly with the egg; press the mixture in, and when baked for an hour, turn it out gently. Make a sauce thus :— Put on the bones of the meat, broken up, to boil for 2 hours, with an onion and a piece of carrot and turnip. Fry an onion brown in half a ounce of butter or dripping; when very brown, sprinkle in a dessert-spoonful of flour, and stir till the flour is wet; now add half a pint of the stock, a table-spoonful ketchup, and a little pepper and salt to tas te; stir till it boils, but do not allow it to get thick. Strain this sauce round your meat, and serve hot. COLD MEAT ROLLS. £ lb. Cooked Meat. Butter. 8 Cooked Potatoes. Flour. 1 Onion. Pepper and Salt. Chop up the cooked meat and the onion (also cooked) very finely, and season with pepper and salt. Mash the potatoes smoothly, and add to them a tea- spoonful of butter or dripping melted, then whisk them over the fire to dry. Turn the whole out on the table, and add as much flour as the potatoes will take up, and roll the potato paste out about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it into pieces about 6 inches square. Place on each piece a spoonful of the chopped meat; wet the edges, and double the paste over one side above the other, and press the ends down. Place those oblong rolls on a greased tin, and bake till they become a light brown colour, or fry them in hot fat in a frying-pan.VEGETABLES. Vegetables are most valuable food, and can easily sustain life and promote health without the aid of animal food, or (more properly speaking) butcher meat. Vegetable food, however, generally requires the addition of milk, butter, or cheese, which are animal foods. Many vegetables, such as grain, beans, peas, lentils, etc., are highly nitrogenous or flesh-forming; they all contain a large proportion of mineral substances, and many are carbonaceous, or body-warming foods, in a high degree; so that in vegetable diet the wants of the body, under ordinary circumstances, are all supplied. All green vegetables are anti-scorbutic, or blood purifiers; they help to dissolve other food in the stomach and assist digestion, and, as they contain a great deal of water, are particularly suitable to be used in hot weather. The blood contains a great many mineral substances as well as salts; and vegetables and water supply some of these necessaries. Wheat contains more of the mineral matter of which the bones are formed than any other food; and all growing children should have a dietary consisting of bread or food largely composed of flour. When green vegetables, such as cabbage, leeks, etc., are not easily digested, or seem to disagree with the stomach, let them be boiled half the necessary time, the water in which they are being boiled should then be thrown away and replaced with fresh boiling water, and the requisite time completed; by doing this, vegetables will be found to agree with very delicate stomachs. The58 COOKERY. same process may be advantageously followed with potatoes that are old and out of season, and will remove the bitter taste and rather injurious juice which their age engenders. Vegetables require sufficient and very careful cooking, their flavour and appearance being easily spoiled by want of attention. Every country abounds with the vegetables most suited to its climate, and they are so obviously intended for the use of the inhabitants that it is impossible to avoid the inference that they ought to form a very large proportion of our diet. In hot countries, extremely watery vegetables and fruits abound, such as melons, pumpkins, etc., for the comfort and pleasure of the inhabitants; and in our own country, the vegetables that are most abundant are precisely those that are most valuable for our food. Fruits also ought to enter largely into our diet. If ripe, they cannot be too freely partaken of by all, the young especially; and when not quite ripe, subjected to some process of cooking. GREEN VEGETABLES-TO BOIL. 1 Cabbage. Soak the cabbage (after it has been well washed and the withered leaves removed from the outside) in salt and water for one hour. This makes all insects come out and freshens the cabbage. If the cabbage is large and firm, cut the stalk across about 3 inches deep or rather more, and then cut again in the opposite direction; this opens up the heart of the cabbage and allows the water to penetrate ; have a saucepan with plenty of boil- ing water, having in it a table-spoonful of salt, and a little carbonate of soda the size of a pea, or a very little59 VEGETABLES. sugar; put the cabbage in head downwards, holding it down till it sinks to the bottom; when the water boils again, take the lid off and let it boil the rest of the time with the lid off (this preserves the colour) from twenty minutes to half an hour. When so tender in the stalk that you can easily put a fork in, it is ready; lift it out on a drainer and press the water well out of it. It may be served with French sauce or plain melted butter. N.B.—A piece of bread, tied in a linen rag and put in the water, prevents the unpleasant smell the boiling of green vegetables causes in a house. TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. Shell and wash the peas, and put them in boiling water with a little sugar, salt, and a sprig of mint in it; let them boil for about 20 minutes, or perhaps a little longer if the peas are old. Drain them in a cul- lender, take out the mint, and shake a small bit of butter and a little pepper and salt among them, and serva TO STEW CARROTS. Scrape the carrots and cut them in nicely-shaped pieces, about an inch long, or in the form of young carrots; put them in a saucepan with as much stock as will cover them, and a teaspoonful of sugar; let them stew gently till tender—about one hour; pile them high in a dish, add a little chopped parsley to the stock, which should be much reduced, and pour it over them, and serva60 COOKERY. TURNIPS TO BOIL AND MASH. Peel the turnips thickly, taking off all the fibrous skin, and cut them in quarters, or. in smaller pieces. Put them in boiling water, with salt, and boil quickly about three-quarters of an hour; drain them dry and mash them well, either with a fork, or rub them through an iron sieve. Return them to a clean saucepan with half an ounce of butter, pepper and salt, and stir till hot and dry; add a little cream, and dish in a pyramid, on a plate. CAULIFLOWER TO BOIL. Wash carefully and allow the cauliflower to lie in salted water for an hour at least; then trim the leaves even with the top of the flower, removing the coarser outside leaves altogether. Put it head downwards in plenty of boiling water, salted (just enough salt to taste the water), and a small pinch of carbonate of soda, or half a teaspoonful of sugar. Let it boil rapidly for about a quarter of an hour, with the lid off the pot to allow the gas to escape from the cooking vegetable. When a fork can be put into one of the outside leaves easily, it is ready. Take it up in a cullender to drain, and send it to table with white sauce or melted butter over it.6i VEGETABLES. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 1 lb. Brussels Sprouts. 1 oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. Put the sprouts in plenty of cold water to wash them well. Take each sprout and trim the stalk, cutting off any withered leaves on the outside, and put them in a basin of clean cold water. Have plenty of boiling water (salted), and a small pinch of carbonate of soda in it; drain the sprouts and put them in the pot to boil, with the lid off, for about ten minutes; drain them in a cullender, and return them to the pot with half an ounce of butter and a little pepper and salt. Shake them about in the pot gently to send the butter quite over them, dish them neatly in a pile on a dish, and serve. HARICOT BEANS BOILED. £ lb. Beans. 1 dessert spoonful of Dripping. £ oz. Butter. 1 table-spoonful of chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Soak the beans in cold water for 24 hours. Put them on to boil in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, with a dessert-spoonful of dripping in it, or a small piece of any fresh fat. Let them boil about an hour, till the beans are soft but not broken. Drain them, and add the butter and parsley, pepper and salt, and shake them about in the pan till the butter and parsley is well mixed over them ; then serve.62 COOKERY. No salt must be used when boiling the beans, as it would make them hard and tough. Melted butter or tomato sauce may be poured over the beans, in which case they make an excellent dish as a substitute for meat SPANISH ONIONS BOILED. 1 Onion. I 1 dessert-spoonful of Flour. 1 teacupful of Milk. | Pepper and Salt. Take the outside skin neatly from the onion, and put it in plenty of boiling water (salted) and with half a tea- spoonful of sugar, and allow it to boil. An onion weighing 1 lb. requires to boil an hour and a half; weighing f of an lb., one hour; | a lb., three-quarters of an hour. Drain the onion from the water, and mix the flour and milk, salt and pepper, together. Put the mixture in a small pan to boil, stirring it constantly, then pour it over the onion, and serve. POTATOES BOILED. Potatoes are a most valuable article of food, and undoubtedly deserve and require great care in their preparation. The skin is designed and fitted to preserve the valuable juices which the potato contains, and that potato is not well cooked which allows those juices to escape. All succulent vegetables possess anti-scorbutic or blood-purifying powers—the potato possesses such properties in a high degree. A potato cooked, keeping the skin entire, will digest much more quickly than ifVEGETABLES. 63 the skin is broken, and the juices allowed to flow into the water in the pot; and a potato roasted in its skin is by far the lightest and most digestible way in which to prepare it for an invalid. Potatoes are really best to be boiled in their skins, although there are two exceptions to this rule—one is when the potatoes are unripe, when they just come in; and the second is when they are old and out of season, in the spring and early summer. In the first of those cases, the potato is very watery, being unripe, and is best to have the skin scraped off and put in boiling water and boiled rapidly, as this draws out some of the water and makes the potato better food. In the second case, the potato acquires a bitter taste when it gets old, and is better pared and even soaked for a short time in cold water, before boiling in the usual way. Potatoes, however, should never be soaked longer than an hour or two, as one of the principal components of the potato is starch, and with soaking in water the starch gradually loosens, comes out into the water, and is lost, as may be seen in the white sediment that remains in the bottom of a basin in which the potatoes have been soaked. A few simple rules may be given now for the boiling of the potatoes :— 1. Select the potatoes all one size, or as nearly as possible. It is impossible to boil small and large potatoes properly together. 2. Barely cover the potatoes with water. 3. Add as much salt as tastes the water. 4. Bring them slowly to the boil. 5. Boil the potatoes slowly; the larger the potatoes are the slower they should be boiled, because the heat64 OOOKKRY. takea longer to penetrate to the heart. For very large potatoes a little cold water may be added once or twice to prolong the boiling. 6. Drain them before the akin cracks in the least, but not quite dry. 7. Allow them to steam five or ten minutes with the lid on, and a few minutes with it off. They may now be quickly peeled and dished up. POTATOES MASHED. The best way to mash potatoes, in a plain way, is to take a strong fork and stir or whisk them with it till they become smooth and light. The longer they are whisked the lighter they become. Add a very little sweet milk, and stir them well; then dish them up very neatly in a heap. When potatoes are pared before boiling, it should be very thinly indeed, as the best part is next the skin; then put into cold water at once, and boil according to the directions given. PARSNIPS—TO BOIL. 4 Parsnips. £ teacupful of Milk. 1 teaspoonful Flour. Pepper and Salt. 1 teaBpoonful Butter. Wash the parsnips clean, scraping away the discoloured parts. Have a sauce-pan with plenty of boiling water and enough salt to taste the water well, into which put the parsnips, and boil them for about three-quarters of65 VEGETABLES. an hour or till tender, then drain them; scrape the skin entirely off, and cut them into slices. Mix the flour and butter together, and put both in a small stew-pan, with the milk, pepper and salt, and stir till boiling ; add the parsnips, and shake over the fire till they are well heated up, and serve very hot. PARSNIPS-TO MASH. 4 Parsnips. Pepper and Salt. £ oz. Butter. Vinegar. Wash and boil the parsnips as described above ; when sufficiently boiled, scrape clean, and mash up thoroughly with a fork. Put them into a small sauce-pan, with the butter, pepper, salt, and a few drops of vinegar; stir over the fire till they are quite hot. Dish in a pile, and serve hot. A table-spoonful of tomato improves the parsnips, and may be used instead of vinegar. Pepper and Salt, f pint Milk. 1 slice Toast. LEEK S-T O BOIL. 6 Leeks. ^ oz. Butter. J oz. Flour. £ tea-spoonful of Sugar. Select leeks about the thickness of a finger, and cut them all about the same length, leaving scarcely any of the green part on, and wash them very carefully and trim them neatly. Tie them in a bundle and put into a small stew-pan, with boiling water and a little salt, to parboil for five minutes, when they should be drained and afterwards put into a clean sauce-pan, with enough milk to cover, and the sugar. Let them stew in this till tender, about twenty minutes or more, according to age, and dish them on toast. Thicken the milk withCOOKERY. 66 half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour kneaded together, which season to taste, and, after allowing it to boil, pour over the leeks. They may be cut in inch lengths if preferred, and piled high on the toast. BEETROOT—TO PICKLE. 6 Beetroots. 2 pints Vinegar. £ oz. Ginger. £ oz. Peppercorns. 1 blade Mace. 1 doz. Cloves. Wash the beetroots gently, taking care not to break the fibres, as they will bleed and lose their colour. Put them into a sauce-pan, with boiling water tasted with salt, to boil for an hour and a half. Take them up, peel and cut them in slices one-eighth of an inch thick, and put them in a jar. Boil a pint of vinegar with the peppercorns, mace, cloves, ginger, and, when boiled, add to it a pint of cold vinegar. Pour the whole over the beetroots in the jar, and when quite cold cover tightly. RED CABBAGE—TO PICKLE. Take a nice firm red cabbage and wash it well, taking off the coarse outside leaves. Shred the cabbage up finely into very slender slips, and put a layer of the cabbage on a sieve or basket; sprinkle salt rather plentifully over it, and repeat till the whole is finished. Allow it to remain thus for two days, turning it over several times that it may drain, then put it into a jar. Boil a pint of vinegar, with a teaspoonful of peppercorns, a blade of mace, and 6 cloves, and pour boiling over the cabbage in the jar; add a few slices of beetroot if con- venient, which will improve the colour. Cover up tightly when cold.PUDDINGS. The most important article that enters into the com- position of puddings is milk. It is a perfect food, and contains all the substances necessary to sustain life, and in the young of animals does sustain life for a lengthened period. It is converted into solid food in the stomach on the same principle by which milk is converted into cheese. The gastric juices in the stomach separate the milk, so that there is a solid part like curd and a liquid like whey. Two cupfuls of new milk con- tain as much nourishment as a mutton chop, and the same quantity of milk makes one ounce of cheese; so that one ounce of cheese contains as much nourishment or nitrogenous food as a mutton chop. This gives an idea of the value of milk as food. The cream of the milk is carbonaceous, and milk itself contains a large proportion of mineral food. Eggs are much used in the composition of puddings, and it is desirable that their value be well understood. They are very nutritious, and contain a great deal of nitrogenous food in a remarkably concentrated form. A hen’s egg of average size weighs If ounces, and con- tains water, albumen, fat, oil, and mineral matter. It is said that eighteen eggs contain as much flesh-forming substance and other nutrients as would suffice for an adult man for one day, and it would be necessary to consume 70 lbs. of fruit, such as a pear, to provide the same amount of albumen or nitrogenous food. This very strikingly shows the concentrated nourishment to be found in an egg. Eggs contain as much heat-givingCOOKERY. 68 and flesh-forming substance as an equal weight of butcher meat. Puddings composed principally of milk and eggs should be very gently cooked, as a very strong heat will cause them to curdle. Puddings with suet should be well cooked, as suet takes a long time to combine with the other materials of which puddings are composed. Rice makes excellent puddings, and although in itself not nitrogenous food, yet, combined with milk and eggs, is sufliciently nourishing, and very light. Rice is principally composed of starch, and is carbonaceous; on that account it is excellent for the young and old who require food tliat is warming and easily digested. Macaroni is a composition of wheaten flour made into a kind of paste. There are many varieties of this which go under the name of Italian Pastes. Macaroni is the cheapest and most useful article which can be used for puddings. It is nitrogenous, because it is made of wheat, and on that account is much more strengthening than rice. The nitrogenous principle in wheat is called gluten. Combined with cheese, macaroni is particularly good, and in that form is much used in foreign countries, and it is well worthy of being more extensively used in this country than it has formerly been. Semolina resembles ground rice in its grain, but is of a yellow colour, and is a portion of wheat which is not finety ground. It makes very good puddings, and can be used in any form in which rice is used, and is much more strengthening. Corn Flour is almost wholly starch, and on that account is fattening and warming, but not strengthen- ing. It is not sufficiently nitrogenous to be the con-PUDDINGS. 69 stant food of infants, as it does not develop the muscles and flesh sufficiently. Boiled or baked flour is much better food for infants than corn flour. Puddings are much lighter steamed than boiled. Steaming means that a very little water is put into a pot or pan, having a close lid. When the water boils the pudding is put in, and it cooks in the steam. There should only be enough water to keep steam in the pot; but care must be taken that it does not all evaporate, and the pudding as well as the pot get burned. Boiling means that a pudding is either covered with a cloth or lid, and plunged overhead in boiling water, and cooked so for the necessary time. This generally makes a pud- ding heavier and less digestible. A lid is particularly to be avoided, as it so hermetically seals the pudding that none of the gas engendered by the cooking escapes, and it cannot be either so light or wholesome. Puddings with suet, much butter, or fat of any kind, are greatly improved by having a sauce served with them; as cold milk or cream are liable to congeal the fat, and render it unpleasant. A few recipes for Pud- ding Sauces will be given in their place. BREAD PUDDING. 2 thick slices of Bread. 2 table-spoonfuls of Marma- lade. 1 breakfast cupful of Milk. 2 Eggs. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. Cut the crust from the bread, and break the soft part into a basin. Boil the milk and pour it over the bread. Cover the basin with a plate, and stand it aside for ten minutes. Then with a fork whisk it up till it forms a pulp. Beat up the eggs and stir them in, mixing well; to whichCOOKERr. 70 add a table-spoonful of marmalade, and mix all together. Butter a basin or plain mould, and spread a table- spoonful of marmalade over the bottom of it. Pour in the pudding and cover it with a buttered paper, then steam for one hour. Turn it out on a plate and allow the marmalade to pour round it like sauce. Raisins may be mixed with the pudding instead of marmalade, and the mould ornamented with raisins instead of having the marmalade in the bottom. SCRAP BREAD PUDDING. £ lb. scraps of Bread. 1 table-spoonful chopped Suet or Dripping. 1 handful Currants or Raisins. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. % teaspoonful of ground Ginger. 1 teacupful of Milk. 1 Egg. Keep all scraps of bread that are clean, and neatly cut from them all the brown crust. Put the bread into a basin of ivater to soak for an hour. Less time is required if the bread is not very hard. Have very clean hands, and after squeezing the water entirely out, put the bread in a dry basin, and add to it the sugar, the dripping or suet, and the fruit. Boil the milk, and pour it over the bread, etc., in the basin, and whisk it well up with a fork. Beat up the egg and add it, also the ground ginger. Butter a basin, into which put the pudding, and allow it to steam for one hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce.71 PUDDINGS. PLUM PUDDING. | lb. Bread-crumbs. £ lb. Flour. £ lb. Suet. £ lb. Sugar. £ lb. Currants. £ lb. Valencia Raisins. £ lb. Orange Peel. 1 Lemon. 1 salt-spoonful of Salt. 1 Apple or 1 Carrot. 2 Eggs. £ pint Milk. 2 teaspoonfuls Mixed Spice. £ teaspoonful Nutmeg. £ teaspoonful Baking Powder. For this pudding the currants ought to be washed and dried, the raisins stoned, and the orange peel cut up in small pieces; grate the lemon rind, and squeeze out the juice. If an apple is used it must be peeled and chopped finely, and if a carrot, the red part of it grated. Put into a basin all the dry ingredients, including the apple, the lemon rind and juice, and mix them all together. Eeat the eggs well, add to them the milk, and pour both among the ingredients in the basin, mixing thoroughly. Butter a pudding basin or mould and pour the pudding in; cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for four hours. Serve hot with either custard or sweet melted butter sauce. ROTHESAY PUDDING. £ lb. Flour. £ lb. Bread-crumbs. £ lb. Suet chopped. 1 teacupful of Raspberry Jam. 1 teacupful of Milk. 1 dessert spoonful of Sugar. 1 Egg. £ teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. £ teaspoonful of Vinegar. Mix in a basin the flour, bread-crumbs, sugar, and suet. Stir in the jam and mix well; beat up the egg and add the milk to it, and mix it also into the pudding.COOKERY. 72 Wet the carbonate of soda with a very little vinegar, just enough to moisten it, and stir it thoroughly through the other ingredients. Pour all into a buttered shape. Cover with a buttered paper and steam for two hours. Serve hot with sweet sauce. This pudding is good with either white or red goose- berry jam. TREACLE PUDDING. 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Bread. 1 breakfast-cupful of Flour. I lb. Currants. | lb. Suet. 1 table-spoonful Sugar. \ teaspoonful Salt. 1 teaspoonful Ground Ginger. \ teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. | teaspoonful Cream of Tartar. 1 Egg. Water. £ lb. Treacle. Wash and dry the currants, and chop up the suet very finely. Put into a basin all the dry ingredients, the bread, flour, sugar, currants, suet, salt, ginger, carbonate of soda, and cream of tartar, and mix them well, after which add the treacle, stirring it about. Beat up the egg and mix with it a teacupful of water; pour this in and mix all well together. It should be quite moist without being at all sloppy. Put it into a shape or basin well rubbed with dripping or butter, and cover with a buttered paper. Place it in a pot in which there is half an inch of boiling water. Put the lid closely on the pot and steam for two and a half hours, then turn out and serve with sweet sauce. N.B.—If more water is required to moisten the pudding properly, it must be added, but it is best not to put more among the egg in case it should not be required.PUDDINGS. 73 BREAD AND JAM PUDDING. Bread. f pint Milk. Jam. Sugar. 2 Eggs. Have a plain round tin or basin that will hold a pint and a half (three breakfast-cupfuls), and grease it well inside with sweet dripping or butter. Take some very thin slices of bread, and spread them with jam; then cut them up in slips about 1 inch wide and 3 long. Place them lightly in the mould, filling it very nearly full. Now beat up two eggs well, to which add one table-spoonful of sugar and the milk, and after mixing all well together, pour into the mould. Allow it to stand for half an hour to soak; then cover the mould with a greased paper and place it in a saucepan with boiling water (the water must reach only half-way up the mould); steam for an hour and turn out. The pudding must steam very slowly or the eggs will curdle, which would spoil the pudding. Marmalade may be substituted instead of jam in this pudding, and the bread may be buttered before the jam is put on if a richer pudding is desired. MARMALADE PUDDING. | lb. Bread crumbs, i lb. Marmalade. £ lb. Suet, 1 table spoonful of Sugar. 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Butter-milk. Grate the bread and put it in a basin; add the suet and sugar, and mix well together; then add the carbonate of soda, taking care that the lumps are rubbedCOOKERY. 74 out. Now add the marmalade, and mix; also as much butter-milk as will wet the whole, but it should not be very moist. Grease a basin or mould well and put the pudding in; cover with a greased paper, and steam for two and a half hours; turn out and serve with sweet sauce, with some marmalade mixed to flavour it. This pudding, having no egg, is suitable when the eggs are objected to, or in winter when they are very expensiva FIG PUDDING. 1 breakfast-cupful of Bread- crumbs, i lb. Figs. ^ lb. Suet. 1 breakfast-cupful of Milk. 1 teacupful of Flour. 2 Eggs. \ lb. Sugar. Nutmeg. Chop up the figs rather finely, and put them in a sauce-pan with the milk to stew for a quarter of an hour. Put into a basin the bread, flour, and suet, chopped up finely; also the sugar and a very little nutmeg, and mix them well. Add the figs and milk, then the eggs well beaten, and whisk all thoroughly up with a fork. Butter a basin or shape, and pour the pudding in. Place it in a sauce-pan containing a little boiling water, and steam for an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. URNEY PUDDING. 2 Eggs. Flour. Butter. Sugar. Jam. Carbonate of Soda. Take 2 eggs, with their weight in butter and flour, and the weight of one egg iu sugar. Put the butter andPUDDINGS. 75 sugar in a basin and beat them to a cream; add the eggs and beat smooth; then add the flour, in which should be mixed half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mix till smooth and add a table-spoonful of strawberry or raspberry jam; pour into a buttered mould, which cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam gently for an hour and a half. Turn out and serve with arrow- root sauce. Put a pint and a quarter of milk in a nice clean sauce- pan to boil; then sprinkle in the semolina and boil, stirring constantly for five minutes or rather more • then add the sugar and the butter, and mix well. Allow it to stand a few minutes in the sauce-pan to cool, then beat up the eggs and stir them in, mixing thoroughly; add a little flavouring to taste (a little grated orange rind or lemon are very pleasant for flavouring. Have a plain mould well buttered, and ornamented with cherries or raisins; pour the pudding in, and cover it with buttered paper and steam for an hour; then turn out gently. Ground rice is made into a pudding in precisely the same way and in the same proportions. Almond flavour- ing is good with rice, or a bay leaf boiled with the milk. SEMOLINA PUDDING. £ lb. Semolina. l£ pint of Milk. £ oz. Butter. 2 Eggs. 2 oz. of Sugar. Flavouring.76 COOKERY. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 1 lb. Tapioca. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk. 1 large table-spoonful of 2 Eggs. l teaspoonful of Butter. A little Flavouring. Sugar. Soak the tapioca for a quarter of an hour in a breakfast- cupful of hot water. Put the milk on to boil, and when it boils stir in the soaked tapioca, and let it also boil, stirring it constantly for nearly ten minutes. Take it off the fire and stir in the sugar, the butter, and flavouring ; beat up the eggs and add them, stirring till quite mixed ; then pour into a pudding-dish, and bake for half an hour. Wash the sago and pour olf the water, then soak it in a teacupful of warm water for ten minutes. Put on 2 breakfast-cupfuls of skimmed milk to boil; when it boils stir in the sago and boil for 5 minutes, stirring constantly, by which time the sago will be cooked enough and quite clear ; take the pan from the fire and stir in the sugar and butter. Now beat up the eggs and add them, mixing well, and pour the whole into a pudding- dish ; sprinkle a little ground cinnamon over it, and put it on a toaster in front of the fire to brown on the top and cook; turn it round once or twice to cook evenly, or put it in an oven for half an hour. SAGO PUDDING. 1 teacupful of Sago. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. 2 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful of Butter. Ground Cinnamon.PUDDINOS. 77 RICE PUDDING. 1 teacupful of Whole Rice. 1 table spoonful of Marmalade. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk. 2 Eggs. 1 table spoonful of Sugar. Wash the rice well, and put it on to boil in a small pan with a breakfast-cupful of water. Let it boil for 5 minutes, then pour in the milk and allow it to boil for half an hour without stirring it. Take the pan from the fire and add the sugar and the marmalade, and stir well. Beat up the eggs and add them last, mixing all together; then pour into a pudding- dish, and bake in the oven or in front of the fire for half an hour. A handful of currants may be used instead of the marmalade, but they must first be washed and dried. RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. £ lb. Rice. 1 table spoonful of Suet. 1 table spoonful of Sugar. Nutmeg. 1 handful of Currants. 2 breakfast cupfuls of Milk, Wash the rice and put it either into a small pudding- dish or pudding-basin; chop up the suet and add it, also the sugar, a very little grated nutmeg, and a handful of currants well washed. Pour the milk over, and put it in a slow oven for an hour and a half; or cover the basin with a buttered paper, and place it in a sauce- pan with a little water, and steam for one hour. This pudding cooks anywhere near the fire, where the rice can get gradually heated and cooked. Skimmed milk does very well, as the suet supplies the want of fat both in the rice and the milk, and makes a very rich and good pudding at a small cost. The currants may be omitted.78 COOKERY. BLACK CAP PUDDING. \ lb. Flour. 1 table spoonful Currants. 1 pint Milk. 2 Eggs. 1 dessert spoonful of Sugar, js tea-spoonful Salt £ tea-spoonful Baking Powder. Grease a pudding basin well that is large enough to contain a pint, and prepare the pudding exactly as before, adding the sugar additional. Put into the basin the currants well washed and dried, and pour the pudding in; dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, and sprinkle some flour on the middle of it; then tie very tightly over the basin; which put into a sauce-pan with plenty of boiling water, and boil one hour and a half. Turn out and pour sweet pudding sauce round it. Grease a pudding-basin well, and fill it nearly full with the apples, after they have been peeled and chopped up, and sprinkle the sugar over them. Put into a basin the flour, salt, and baking powder. Beat up the egg, and add the milk to it. Stir this gradually among the flour, mixing it quite smooth. Pour this batter over the fruit, and cover the whole with a buttered paper, and steam gently for one hour. Goose- berries or damsons may be substituted for apples. BATTER AND FRUIT PUDDING. 1 lb. Apples. 6 oz. Flour. 1 Egg. 1 pincb of Salt. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. 1 breakfast-cupful of Milk. \ tea-spoonful of Baking Powder.79 PUDDINGS. CORN FLOUR SHAPE. 2 table-spoonfuls of Corn Flour. A little essence of Lemon to 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk. flavour. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. Put into a basin the corn flour, and wet it with a little cold milk, then add the sugar and essence. Put on the 2 cupfuls of milk to boil in a nice clean pan, and when it boils stir in the corn flour, and stir constantly and rapidly for 3 minutes, then wet a shape in cold water, and pour the corn flour in, and turn out when cold on a plate. A bay leaf boiled in the milk and picked out before the corn flour is put in, flavours this very nicely and very cheaply. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. J lb. Flour. \ teaspoonful Salt. 1 pint Milk. ^ teaspoonful Baking Powder. 2 Eggs. Put into a basin the flour, salt, baking powder, and mix them well. Beat up the eggs, and add the milk to them, mixing thoroughly; then pour all gradually into the flour, stirring constantly, to prevent the flour going into lumps. When this is well mixed, pour the pudding into a well- greased flat tin, and bake for half an hour. This pudding should have the tin greased with the dripping from roasted mutton, and is often baked under the meat while roasting.80 COOKERY. ROLY-POLY PUDDING. 1 breakfast-cupful of Flour, f lb. of Suet finely chopped. | teaspoonful of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. Powder, i lb. of Jam. Butter Milk or Water. £ teaspoonful Baking Put the flour into a basin along with the suet, chopped very finely, to which add the salt, sugar, and baking powder, and mix all well together. Now add as much of either butter milk or water as will make a stiff paste, gathering up all the flour in the basin. Turn it out on the board and roll it into a thin sheet. Take a bowel or plain shape (a melon shape is best) and rub it well inside with dripping. Take as much of the paste as will line the shape, and fit it nicely all round, cutting the edges even. Now put a spoonful of jam in the bottom of the shape, and cover it with a piece of the paste; repeat this operation till the dish is full, leaving a piece of paste last, which wet round the ^Jges a little to make it adhere. Cover the top with a buttered paper, and put the shape into a pot with half an inch of boiling water in it; put the lid of the pot closely on, and steam for two hours, then turn out. N.B.—The scraps of paste left after lining the shape may be rolled out again, or just put in between the layers of jam as they are. Leave a piece the size of the top till the last. Have a pudding bowl that will hold a pint and a half, and rub it inside with butter. Make the flour, suet BOILED APPLE PUDDING. lbs. of Apples. A handful of Currants. 2 table-spoonfuls of Marmalade. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. ^ lb. of Flour. ^ teaspoonful of Eaking Powder. Cup of Milk. Pinch of Salt. i lb. Suet.PUDDINGS. 81 chopped, salt, baking powder, and a teaspoonful of sugar up into a paste with either sweet or butter milk, which roll out rather thinly and line the basin as described in recipe for “ Boiled Meat Pudding.” Pare and cut up the apples, also wash and dry the currants. Put a few apples in the bottom of the basin, then a little sugar, a few currants, and a little of the marma- lade. Eepeat till the dish is full and all the ingredients used up. Cover with paste, and tie a wet pudding cloth over as previously directed, and place in plenty of boiling water to boil for two hours. N.B.—Water may be used instead of milk to make the paste. Pare 6 good-sized and firm apples, and take the cores out with an old penknife, so as not to break the apple. Put in a basin one pound flour, ^ lb. suet chopped very finely, a teaspoonful baking powder, and ^ teaspoonful of salt, which mix thoroughly, rubbing out any lumps in the suet with the fingers. Mix into a paste with cold water, and divide it into 6 equal-sized pieces, then take one of the pieces and make it round like an apple, flatten it in your hand, put the apple on the top of it, and fill the core with sugar till the hole is quite full; now work the paste up over and round the apple, closing it at the top, and leaving no crack or mark where the paste is fastened. APPLE DUMPLINGS BOILED. 6 Apples. 1 lb. Flour. £ lb. Suet. Baking Powder. Sugar. Salt.82 COOKERY. Have a small piece of linen cloth dipped in boiling water, with some flour sprinkled on it, into which tie the dumpling pretty tightly, and drop it into boiling water, to boil for twenty minutes. A square piece of coarse knitting may be used instead of a cloth to boil it in, which will leave the impression of the pattern on the paste. APPLE DUMPLINGS BAKED. The same ingredients are required as in the previous recipe, only use \ lb. of butter or dripping instead of suet, and add a dessert-spoonful of sugar to the paste. Make the paste up as before described, then divide it, and enclose the apples in each piece; when rolled quite round, brush the top of each over with a little beaten egg or milk, and sprinkle a little sugar over. Place the 6 dumplings on a greased baking sheet, and bake for half an hour. One clove, a little grated lemon rind, or a little nutmeg, may be put with the sugar in the core of each apple, and will give it a nice flavour. FRUIT TART. 2 lbs. Fruit. \ lb. Sugar. Ginger. £ lb. Flour. 3 oz. Butter. Baking Powder. If the tart is to be made of rhubarb, it should be well washed (not skinned) and cut up in inch lengths, packed tightly into the dish, the sugar sprinkled among it, also half a teaspoonful of ground ginger. If made of gooseberries, they should be picked clean, washed, and83 PUDDINGS. put in the dish with a little cinnamon. If apples are used, they must be peeled and sliced very thinly, sugar sprinkled among them, and a little lemon peel grated, or half a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. In no case put water in. Paste.—Put the flour in a basin with a dessert-spoonful of fine soft sugar, ^ teaspoonful of baking powder, 3 oz. of butter, and crumble the latter among the flour until all lumps have disappeared, then pour in enough cold water to make a stiff paste; turn it out on a board and roll it a little larger than the size of the dish; after wetting it, cut off a band of paste to put round the edge of the dish ; wet the band again and place the remainder of the paste on. Press it down very lightly, to make the edges adhere; pare and notch them neatly according to taste; brush the top with cold water, and dust fine sugar over, then put it in the oven to bake for one hour. When a fruit tart begins to boil out at the side it is usually ready. SAGO AND FRUIT. £ lb. Rhubarb. \ lb. Sago. 6 oz. Sugar. 2 teacupfuls of Water. Peel and cut up the rhubarb in very small pieces, and put it on to boil with a teacupful of water for ten minutes. Wash the sago and soak it for ten minutes in a tea- cupful of warm water, then add it and the sugar to the rhubarb, and allow it to boil for ten minutes longer. Stir it occasionally, and pour it into a shape which has been wet with cold water. Turn out when cold, and serve with either syrup, sauce, or milk.COOKERY. 84 PANCAKES. $ lb. of Flour. 1 Egg. i pint Milk. Sugar. 1 pinch Salt. Put into a basin a teamipful of flour (which is a quarter of a lb.), and add the salt to it. Beat up the egg well, and add to it a small breakfast- cupful of milk, which is £ a pint, and mix them very gradually with the flour, to prevent lumps; and when all is poured in, beat it up for a few minutes. Have a small frying-pan if possible, and melt a piece of butter about the size of a small nut in it; then pour in as much of the mixture as thinly covers the pan, and allow it to cook till it gets firm, which takes a minute or two. Shake the pan, and turn the pancake over to cook the other side; then turn out on a plate, and after sprinkling the top with sugar, roll it up. Repeat the same process till all the material is finished; and send to table covered up, and very warm. APPLE AND ORANGE FRITTERS. Flour. Butter. 2 Eggs. Sugar. Apples. Oranges. Fritters are pieces of fruit or meat dipped in batter and then fried. They may be made of fish, or any slices of cooked meat or tripe, and are an excellent mode of using up cold meat. They are frequently made of fruit, and any kind of fresh fruit does for the purpose. Batter.— Ingredients: 6 oz. of flour, a table-spoonfulPUDDINGS. S5 of melted and clarified butter, dripping, or salad oil, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a teacupful of tepid water. Those ingredients must be rubbed together very smoothly and carefully, and should be a good thick batter, to which add the whites of two eggs, beaten up very stiffly, and mix carefully with the batter. Apple Fritters.—Peel the apples, and with a sharp- pointed knife take out the cores and slice the apples across, \ of an inch thick. Have a pan with plenty of dripping or lard heated till it begins to smoke; and after dipping the slices of apples into the batter, in order to cover them with it, lift them out into the hot fat, and fry till they become a pale brown colour; then sprinkle sugar over them on a plate, and serve very hot. Orange Fritters.—After taking the skin off, cut the orange in slices across, or divide it into its natural divisions, and dip each piece in the batter; then with a spoon lift them into the hot fat, and fry them a pale brown colour. Fritters should be put on soft paper or a kitchen towel for a few minutes, to drain the fat off, after which sprinkle sugar over them, and serve very hot. Slices of meat, tripe, fish, etc., are cooked in a similar way, only sprinkle salt over them instead of sugar. The same batter may be used. STEWED PRUNES. 1 lb. common Prunes. 1 small Lemon, i lb. Sugar. Water. If the prunes are very hard soak them for 2 hours in warm water. All the cheaper kinds of prunes are the better of being thus soaked.COOKERY 86 Put into a pan } lb. of sugar, a breakfast-cupful of water, the lemon juice, also the rind of half a lemon thinly pared, and bring all to the boil. Drain off the water the prunes are soaked in, and put them in the pan, which cover up, and stew gently for one hour at least, but longer if they are very hard ; then pick out the pieces of lemon peel and serve. The lemon is a very great improvement to this dish, both as to the flavour and good properties of the prunes. French plums require no soaking and much shorter time to stew. When the stones slip easily out the plums are ready. CUSTARD To use with Stewed Prunes or other Stewed Fruit. 2 breakfast cupfuls of Milk. 2 Eggs. 1 dessert spoonful of Corn Flour. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. 2 Bay Leaves. Ground Cinnamon. Put the milk with the bay leaves or a small bit ot lemon rind on the fire to come very slowly to the boil, then mix the corn flour with a little cold milk, which add and boil for one minute. After picking out the leaves, beat up the eggs and pour the boiling mixture over them, stirring all the time. Return the whole to the pan and stir over the fire till it thickens, but it must not boil. Pour into a nice dish and sprinkle a little ground cinnamon over the top. This custard may be served in either cups, glasses, or a glass dish.87 PUDDINGS. APPLE AND RICE MERINGUE. 6 Apples. 3 Eggs, i lb. Sugar. £ lb. Whole Rice. Lemon or Cinnamon. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk. Pare, core, and quarter the apples. Put the sugar in a flat pan with one teacupt'ul of water, and let it boil for a minute or two, then place the quarters of apples in the sugar and put cn the lid, and allow them to simmer slowly till tender; then take out the apples, and boil the syrup till it is reduced and quite thick. Put the rice well washed in a sauce-pan with a break- fast-cupful of water; allow it to boil and absorb the water, then add two breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil slowly without stirring, for about 20 minutes, till it is quite tender, and has taken up the milk; sweeten, and add a little lemon or cinnamon flavouring to taste. It should be dry but sufficiently cooked. Make a border of the rice neatly round a dish, and place the apples in the centre, pouring the reduced syrup over them. Whip up the whites of 3 eggs till quite stiff (about 10 minutes), adding a teaspoonful of sugar during the process, and pile this smoothly over rice and apples in the shape of a pyramid. Sprinkle sugar over rather thickly, and brown very lightly in the oven or front of the fire. The yolks of the eggs will make a custard pudding or LEMON CREAM. 1 Lemon. | ± lb. Sugar. | 3 Eggs. Put half a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, and sugar on to boil, and afterwards strain and allow to cool. Mix the lemon juice and the yolks of 3 eggs, and stir constantly till it thickens, but does not boiL Serve in glasses or cups.88 COOKERY. HOMINY. 1 tea-cupful of Hominy. | 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk. Put a tea-cupful of hominy into a breakfast-cupful of boiling water to soak for 12 hours. Put the soaked hominy into a small basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and stir it through. Cover the basin with paper, and place it in a covered saucepan with a little water, and steam it for an hour. The hominy will then have absorbed all the milk, and with the addition of a table-spoonful of sugar, may be used to eat with jam or treacle. Or it may be put into a mould, and when cool will turn out a nice white shape. HOMINY PUDDING. 1 cup Hominy. 1 handful Currants. 2 Eggs. Milk. Sugar. Prepare the hominy according to the directions given in the previous recipe. That is, soak in water, add milk, and steam. Then stir in a breakfast-cupful of milk in addition, a tea-spoonful of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a handful of currants, washed and dried. Beat up 2 eggs and add them. Mix the whole well, and pour it into a pudding dish to bake, either in the oven or on a toaster in front of the fire for half an hour. Slammed milk is quite good enough to use.89 PUDDINGS. HOMINY AND CHEESE. ^ cup Hominy prepared. Milk. k lb. Cheese. Pepper and Salt. Prepare half a teacnpful of liominy as already described. Then take £ lb. of good cheese, and grate it; put it into a small pan with half a pint of milk, and stir over the fire till it nearly boils, and the cheese is quite dis- solved ; then add a little pepper and salt, and a little mustard. Stir all among the hominy, and mix well. Pour it out on a shallow dish, and toast in front of the fire to brown the top a little. This is a most delicious breakfast or supper dish. MACARONI AND CHEESE. 1 lb. Macaroni. | pint Milk. 2 table-spoonfuls grated Bread. 2 oz. Cheese. | teaspoonful Mustard. Salt. Cayenne Pepper. ^ oz. Butter. Break up a quarter of a pound of macaroni into short lengths, and put it in a sauce-pan with enough boiling water, slightly salted, to cover it well, and let it boil slowly for 20 minutes; then drain it and put it on again with the milk to boil till it is tender, but not broken. It will require 20 minutes or half an hour. Have the cheese grated (it should be old and rather strong), and mix half of it with the macaroni, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and the mustard; then turn it out on a flat dish, and sprinkle over it the bread and the remainder of the cheese, and place on the top the butter broken in little bits. Place it before the fire to brown on the top, and serve hot.90 COOKERY RICE AND CHEESE. J lb. Common Rice. 1 oz. Butter. 2 oz. Cheese. 1 pint Skim Milk. Mustard. Pepper and Salt. Wash the rice well, and put it on with plenty of cold water to boil, when the water must be poured off and replaced with the milk, in which allow it to boil till it is cooked enough, but not too pulpy. It should boil very slowly. Grate 2 oz. of cheese, and add half of it to the rice, along with a pinch of salt, a little pepper, and half a teaspoonful of made mustard; turn it out on a pudding- dish, and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top ; then place on it half an ounce of butter in little bits, and brown before the fire. This is an excellent way of using rinds of cheese, or hard pieces which it is difficult otherwise to use, as the hard part near the rind grates best, besides it is a most nutritious and savoury dish. Mix in a small basin the flour, salt, pepper, mustard, and grated cheese. Melt the butter, and mix it with a teacupful of warm water and the yolk of the egg ; beat all up and stir it gradually in among the flour, etc. Beat up the white of the egg stiffly, and stir it in last of all. Drop the mixture in dessert-spoonfuls among hot fat, and fry it like other fritters till it is a nice brown. They must be turned in the pan to brown both sides. CHEESE FRITTERS J lb. Flour, i lb. Cheese. 1 teacupful Water. £ teaspoonful Mustard. Pepper and Salt, l teaspoonful Butter.SAUCES. BROWN SAUCE. 1 teaspoonful Butter or Mustard. Flour. Dripping. 1 Onion. Put into a small pan the teaspoonful of butter or dripping; let it get quite hot, then slice a small onion, and fry it in the fat till brown. Stir in one teaspoonful of flour, add a teacupful of gravy or water, and let it boil; then add half a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a few drops of either vinegar, ketchup, or Harvey sauce; boil all for one minute. Strain it to keep back the onion. Boil the egg hard, i.e., for ten minutes ; take off the shell, and chop it up. Put into a small sauce-pan the butter and flour, and mix over the fire ; then pour in a breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir till it boils; then add to it the chopped up egg, which mix well, and serve. EGG SAUCE. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. 1 Egg. 1 breakfast-cupful of Milk. A little Pepper and Salt.COOKERY. 92 APPLE SAUCE. 4 Apples. 1 tea-spoonful of Sugar. 1 tea-spoonful of Butter. 1 table-spoonful of Water. Pare and slice up the apples, and put them in a sauce- pan with the sugar, butter, and water. Boil for 10 minutes, or until they are quite soft, and mash all well together with a fork, and serve hot. FRENCH SAUCE (for Vegetables or Fish). 1 oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. 1 oz. Flour. 2 yolks Eggs. £ pint Milk. Put the butter and flour in a small sauce-pan, and rub them together till quite mixed; then add the milk and stir over the fire till it boils. After seasoning with salt and white pepper to taste, take off the fire; stir in the yolks of two raw eggs, which mix thoroughly, and serve. CLEAR SAUCE. 1 tea-spoonful of Arrow- 1 dessert-spoonful of Sugar, root. 1 table-spoonful of Jelly. Moisten the arrowroot with a little water, then add a gill of water and stir over the fire till it boils. Add the sugar and a table-spoonful of red-coloured jelly, and stir till it boils. Serve it with a pudding. CUSTARD SAUCE. Milk. | Eggs. | Sugar. Put half a pint of milk in a small sauce-pan, and add to it two eggs well beaten, and a spoonful of sugar. Mix well and stir over the fire till it begins to thicken, but it must not be allowed to boil; then flavour to taste.SAUCES. 93 MELTED BUTTER. 1 oz. Butter. 1 breakfast-cupful of 1 oz. Flour. Water. Put into a small sauce-pan the butter and the Hour, and stir over the fire till the butter has absorbed the flour; add a breakfast-cupful of water, weak broth, or milk, and stir till it boils and thickens ; season with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. This mode of pro- ceeding insures the melted butter being perfectly smooth. SWEET MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. Butter. Sugar. Flour. Flavouring. Put \ oz. of butter and £ oz. of flour in a small sauce-pan, and stir over the fire till smooth; add half a pint of water and stir till it boils and thickens; then add a table-spoonful of sugar and some essence of cloves or cinnamon, or any flavouring preferred, and serve in a sauce tureen. Pudding sauces should be rather thicker than good cream. MINT SAUCE. 1 table-spoonful of Green Mint. 1 dessert-spoonful of Sugar. 1 gill of Vinegar. 1 table-spoonful of Hot Water. Wash and pick the mint carefully, and chop it up. Mix the sugar, vinegar, and water in the sauce tureen, and stir in the mint. It is better to be made an hour before being required, in order to flavour the vinegar well with the mint.CAKES AND BAKING. Cakes, buns, biscuits, etc., form pleasant adjuncts to the necessaries of the household, and are only of secondary importance to that of bread baking. They are well worthy of attention, as they can be easily and cheaply made at home. Solid cakes, such as seed, pound, and ginger cakes, require a rather hot oven. It is better to protect the cake with a good many folds of paper in the bottom of the pan and a paper cover on the top, than by putting the cake in a slow oven, allow the fruit to sink to the bottom, and the cake to become heavy. Light sponge cakes and all light cakes must have a quiet oven, as well as all large cakes which contain much baking powder. The lighter the cake is, in general the quieter the oven should be. A very light cake put into a quick oven rises rapidly round the sides, but leaves a hollow in the middle. Study the recipe for Baking Powder and consider its composition. When baking powder is not to be had, a substitute can easily be made by putting in the required quantity of carbonate of soda and some acid to counteract it. Soda alone is never good in a cake where there is butter or dripping, unless some substance containing acid is along with it. Treacle is one of those substances containing acid. The best carbonate of soda is a decided advantage over the common kind.95 CAKES AND BAKING. The following tests for trying the temperature of the oven may be found useful:— 1. If a sheet of paper burns when thrown in, the oven is too hot. 2. When the paper becomes dark brown, it is suitable for pastry. 3. When light brown, it does for pies. 4. When dark yellow, for cakes. 5. When light yellow, for puddings, biscuits, and small pastry. Cakes should be baked until they are dry in the middle, which may be ascertained by thrusting a skewer or rough piece of wood into the middle; if it comes out clean, the cake is ready. A cake is often better to remain in the oven for a short time to dry even after it is ready, if the oven be cool. BAKING POWDER. 2 oz. and 1 teaspoonful of 2 oz. of Tartaric Acid. Carbonate of Soda. 2 oz. of Rice Flour. Put all the ingredients in a basin and mix them well; then rub the mixture through a sieve or cullender several times to take out the lumps. Put it into a bottle or jelly-can, and keep for use. BREAD. 3 lbs. Flour. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 1 oz. German Yeast. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. Lukewarm Water. Put into a large basin 2| lbs. of Hour, and sprinkle in round the edges a teaspoonful of salt; gather the flour up to the sides of the basin, leaving a hollow in the middle.96 COOKERY. Put into a smaller basin an ounce of German yeast and a teaspoonful of soft sugar; mix it to a smooth paste with a little lukewarm water as starch is mixed ; when quite smooth pour in 2£ breakfast-cupfuls of lukewarm water, and mix thoroughly; now pour all this liquid into the basin of flour, and with a spoon mix it thoroughly. All the flour should be wet, but not in the least sloppy, and it should be the thickness of a good paste. It may be necessary to add a little more water; if so, add it care- fully. When the whole is mixed well, knead it a little with the hand, and sprinkle a little flour on the top. Cover the basin with a plate, and put it where it will keep at the same heat, to “ rise ” for an hour. Then add a little flour to the dough in the basin to help to gather it from the sides, and, still adding a very little flour, punch and knead it well. When the paste is well gathered into a mass, and not sticking to the basin, turn it out on a table and knead it for 10 minutes, always adding a little flour—at least half a pound of flour will be added during this kneading process. Divide this paste into 4 loaves, which either make up shaped like cottage loaves and put them on a floured oven plate, or make like pan loaves and put them in shapes floured inside. Set the loaves in a warm place to rise for 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour. Then put them into a rather quick oven to bake for about half an hour. The quantity of water that is required to make bread depends greatly on the flour used. Fine flour requires more water than coarse, and consequently it makes a larger quantity of bread; but it requires also a little more yeast. The above recipe is for ordinary flour. German yeast loses its strength if long kept, and97 CAKES AND BAKING. when that is the case increase the weight of the yeast used. Yeasts of all kinds require a warm temperature to encourage fermentation, or in other words to make them “rise,” consequently the secret of making bread light is to have everything connected with it warm during the process of baking. Bake in a warm place, set it to rise in a warm place, and from beginning to end of the process let the bread get no chill. Setting the bread to rise on a kitchen fender is not a good plan at all, as the fire always draws a current of air from the door or window, and consequently must chill the outside of the basin with the dough or the loaves when set to rise. The best way is to set them up near the fire and quite out of the draught. The temperature of the oven for baking bread should be about 260°. 1 Pinch Salt. Mix in a basin the flour, sugar, salt, and currants ; then warm the butter and milk a little, just lukewarm, and mix the yeast smoothly with it; also beat up the eggs and mix them. Pour all into the flour, etc., in the basin, and mix with a spoon till the flour is all wet. More milk may be required, but the flour is to be just wet. When well mixed set to rise near the fire for half an hour, as bread is raised. Then with well floured hands make the dough up into buns either large or small as required, and place them on a buttered and floured oven tin, and set to rise again for 10 minutes near the BUNS WITH YEAST. 1 lb. Flour. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. 1 cup of Milk. ^ lb. Currants or Raisins. 2 Eggs. 1 dessert-spoonful of Butter. 1 oz. German Yeast. Flavouring.98 COOKERY. fire. Then brush the tops over with egg or sugar and water; dust with sugar, and bake for 10 minutes, less or more according to the size. To make hot cross buns, spices, such as cinnamon, mace, and cloves, may be put into those buns and the currants left out, and a cross may be formed on the top. Lemon essence and peel substituted for raisins and currants will increase the variety of the buns. GINGERBREAD CAKE. i lb. Flour. 1 lb. Butter. 1 lb. Treacle. 1 lb. Sugar. $ lb. Raisins. 2 oz. Almonds. 2 Eggs. ^ tea-spoonful Carbonate of Soda. teaspoonfuls between Ground Cinnamon and Cloves. 1 teaspoonful Ground Ginger. Put the flour, carbonate of soda, the spices, raisins stoned, and almonds blanched and split up, into a basin, and mix them well together. Put into a sauce-pan the butter, sugar, and treacle, and bring them to the boil. Beat up the eggs and pour the boiling treacle, etc., among them, stirring vigorously all the time ; pour all in among the ingredients in the basin, and beat up the whole thoroughly. Pour it into a buttered cake tin and bake for about an hour, when the cake should be ready. Almonds are blanched by putting them on in cold water and boiling them a few minutes, then washing them in cold water and rubbing the skins off. They should then be rubbed in a towel and split up.99 CAKES AND BAKING. GINGERBREAD CAKE. 1 lb. Flour. £ lb. Treacle. | lb. Butter or Lard. | teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. I lb. Currants. \ lb. Sugar. Butter-milk. £ oz. Ground Ginger. 1 teaspoonful Sweet Spice. i oz. Caraway Seeds. Put the flour in a basin and mix with it the carbonate of soda, carefully rubbing out the lumps; rub then the butter into the flour very carefully, until it is like bread crumbs. Wash the currants well in cold water, and after drying them in a coarse cloth, pick and add them to the ingredients in the basin, with all the dry things, and mix them. Stir in the treacle and as much butter-milk as will make it into a stiff batter; grease a sake-tin and pour the mixture in, and bake very slowly till ready. Put a skewer into the cake, and if it comes out quite bright it is baked enough. Turn out on a sieve or basket to get cool. Put the sugar and butter into a basin, and with a wooden spoon beat them till they are the thickness of cream; then add the eggs well beaten, and mix in very thoroughly; after which add the milk. Mix the baking powder with the flour and add it next, then the essence of lemon, and beat the whole thoroughly. Line a cake- tin with buttered paper, into which pour the cake, and bake for an hour or till ready. WHITE CAKE, 1 teacupful of Butter. 2 tea-cupfuls of Sugar, 3 teacupfuls of Flour. 1 tea-cupful of Milk. 3 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1 teaspoonful of Essence of Lemon.COOKERY. 100 SULTj s lb Flour | lb. Sultana Raisins. £ lb. Butter. 1 teaspoonful Essence of Lemon. 6 oz. Sugar. NA CAKE. 2 oz. Orange Peel. 2 Eggs. 1 tea spoonful of Baking Powder. Milk. Put the flour in a basin, and rub the butter carefully into it. Wash and dry the raisins and add them, then the sugar, the orange peel cut in thin slips, the baking powder, and the essence of lemon, mixing all well. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, putting the yolks in a small basin, the whites on a plate; beat the yolks and mix with them a teacupful of milk, and pour this among the ingredients in the basin, which should be just wet like a stiff paste. With a clean knife beat the whites of the eggs up very stiffly, and add them last of all, mixing them gently in, then pour all into a well-greased cake-tin, and bake for an hour and a half; but this time depends on the heat of the oven. SODA CAKE. | lb. Flour. ^ lb. Valencia Raisins (stoned). £ lb. Currants. \ lb. Brown Sugar. 2 Eggs. | lb. Orange Peel. 1 teacupful of Milk. 2 oz. Butter. 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. 1 teaspoonful Ground Ginger. 1 teaspoonful Ground Cinnamon. £ a Nutmeg grated. Put into a basin the flour, sugar, currants, raisins, orange peel, carbonate of soda, the spices, and mix well. Warm the butter sufficiently to melt it a little, then beat up the eggs and mix them with the butter, after- wards add the milk. Now stir the milk, butter, and101 CAKES AND BAKING. eggs among the mixture in the basin, and mix well. Have a cake-tin greased and covered with paper, into which pour the cake, and bake till ready, which will be at least an hour. N.B.—The raisins should be stoned, the currants washed and dried, and the orange peel cut up in small pieces. This makes a nice dark cake like a Christmas cake. CHEAP SPONGE CAKE. 1 teacupful Sugar. 1 teacupful Flour. 3 Eggs. | teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. £ teaspoonful Cream of Tartar. 1 table-spoonful Water. J teaspoonful Essence of Lemon. Put the sugar and eggs into a basin, and with a whisk or two forks beat well for 10 to 15 minutes, till it is a nice smooth froth. Mix the carbonate of soda and cream of tartar care- fully with the dry flour and stir it in, then the water with essence of lemon mixed. The flour must be very gently and carefully mixed. Put into a papered tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. LIGHT TEA CAKE. 1 teacupful Flour. 3 Eggs. 1 teacupful Sugar. 1 table-spoonful Milk. 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Mix in a basin the flour, sugar, and baking powder; then beat up the eggs in a small bowl, and add the milk to them. Stir all quickly but thoroughly into the basin, and mix till quite smooth. Have a shallow tin buttered,COOKERY. 102 into which pour the cake, and bake for a quarter of an hour. Cut up the cake in square pieces, or it may be split up, and jam spread inside. CURRANT 1 lb. Flour. £ lb. Sugar. £ lb. Dripping or Butter. \ lb. Currants. 1 Egg. CAKE. 1 teaspoonful Carbonate ot Soda. \ teaspoonful Tartaric Acid. ^ pint Milk (a breakfast- cupful. Mix together in a basin the flour, sugar, butter or dripping, and add the currants after being well washed in cold water and dried. The dripping must be crumbled down by rubbing it with the fingers. Beat up the egg, and mix the milk thoroughly with it. Now put into a dry basin the carbonate of soda and tartaric acid, and pour on this the milk and egg, stirring quickly till it effervesces, when at once pour the whole in among the ingredients in the basin, and mix well and very quickly. Have a cake-tin greased before you begin, and into it pour the cake at once, put it into a warm oven to bake for about an hour. Before beginning to make this cake, the oven should be heated and the cake-tin prepared. Sultana raisins may be substituted for the currants. ROCK CAKES. £ lb. Flour. £ lb. Sultana Raisins. 1 large table-spoonful of Sugar. 1 table-spoonful of Butter. 1 Egg. teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 1 teaspoonful of Ground Ginger. A little Milk. Put into a basin the flour and sugar, among which rub in the butter; add the raisins after being well washed and dried ; also the baking powder and ginger, and mix all well together. Beat up an egg well, add to it103 CAKES AND BAKING. 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk, and mix ; use more milk if necessary, but the ingredients in the basin must be just barely wet. Have an oven-tin greased and warm, with a spoon or fork lift small portions of this mixture, about half the size of an apple, on to the tin, leaving an inch between each. Dust some sugar over, and bake quickly for about 10 minutes. TEA CAKES. 1 lb. Flour. 1 large teaspoonful Sugar. 1 small breakfast-cupful Sweet Milk. l£ teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. 1 table-spoonful Butter. 2 Eggs l lb. Sultana Raisins. 1 teaspoonful Essence of Lemon. Put into a basin the flour, sugar, baking powder, and raisins well washed and dried and the sticks picked off, and mix them well. Melt the butter, and to it add the milk, which will then be as warm as new milk; beat up the eggs and add them to the milk and butter, then add the essence of lemon. Stir all this liquid among the dry contents of the basin, and with a spoon mix well. The flour should just be wet. Take up a piece, with floured hands, make it round, the size of a small saucer, and put it on a greased oven-pan; repeat till all are made up. The cakes should be set two inches apart on the pan. Take up a little beaten egg, and brush the tops over. Sprinkle some sugar over, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. A little of the egg in the cakes may be kept out to brush the tops over. Those cakes should be quickly made and baked to render them light, and may be brushed over with milk instead of egg.COOKERY. 104 LONDON BUNS. 1 lb. Flour. 1 lb. Butter. | lb. Sugar. Butter Milk. Essence of Lemon. Lump Sugar. Baking Powder. lb. Orange Peel. 3 Eggs. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar and 1^- tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, and mix all together. Add the butter, and crumble it down till the whole is like bread-crumbs; also add the orange peel cut in dices about the size of a pea. Beat up three eggs in a basin, and add them to the other ingredients, keeping back about a table-spoonful, and mix well. Now add a little butter milk, but only enough to wet the ingredients in the basin, as the paste must be very stiff; use a spoon and stir till thoroughly mixed and wet. Grease a flat tin and take a piece of the paste, about the size of an egg; roll it round like a ball and place it on the tin, and repeat till all the paste is used up. Use a little flour to keep the hands from sticking. Keep the buns two inches apart, and brush the tops over with the egg kept back for this purpose, and put a few pieces of lump sugar, broken in small pieces, on the top of each. Bake in a smart oven for about 15 minutes, till they are a nice brown colour, and sufficiently cooked. $ lb. Butter. Put all on a table and knead the butter and sugar together, then gradually draw in the flour, kneading well and keeping the lump firm in both hands. When all is worked up into a stiff paste, cut it in two or three SHORTBREAD. 7 oz. Flour. 1 oz. Rice Flour. 1 lb. Sugar. £ teaspoonful Baking Powder.105 CAKES AND BAKING. pieces, and make each piece round or oval as desired, and about half an inch thick ; pinch the edges, dust some sugar on the top, and place some caraways or slips of candied peel on the top, and bake in a slow oven till they are a nice brown colour. The time depends on the thickness of the cakes—from a quarter to half an hour. OATMEAL BISCUITS OR CAKES. 1 breakfast-cupful of Flour. 1 teacupful of Oatmeal. 1 large table-spoonful of Sugar. 1 small table-spoonful of Lard. | teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. 1 Egg. A little Cold Water. Mix in a basin the flour, meal, sugar, and soda, with the lumps well rubbed down. Melt the lard, and beat up the egg with a little water. Pour the hot lard among the dry ingredients, and mix well, then the beaten egg, and just enough water to wet all well. Knead it a little, and roll out quite thinly, cut in small rounds or quarters of large ones, and bake in the oven for 10 minutes, or till the cakes are a pale brown colour. SODA SCONES. 1 lb. Flour. ^ teaspoonful Salt. £ teaspoonful Tartaric Acid. | teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Butter Milk. Put the flour in a basin, with the salt, carbonate of soda, and tartaric acid, and mix together. Make it all into a very soft paste with butter milk; sprinkle plenty of flour on the bake-board, and turn the paste out on it. Roll it less than half an inch thick, and cut with a lid or round cutter. Have a griddle or hot plate, on which place the scones, and bake for 5 minutes on each side.106 COOKERY. DROPPED SCONES. 1 full breakfast-cupful Flour. 1 breakfast-cupful Butter Milk. 2 teaspoonfuls Soft Sugar. f teaspoouful Carbonate ot Soda. I teaspoonful Tartaric Acid. Mix in a basin the flour, sugar, carbonate of soda, and tartaric acid, rubbing the lumps of the soda well out before putting it in. Then add gradually the butter milk, beating it well with the back of a spoon for a few minutes. Have ready and clean a hot griddle or iron plate, which rub over with a rind of bacon or a piece of suet. Put the mixture out in spoonfuls (one spoonful makes a scone), taking care that they are a neat round shape. When the scones are covered with bubbles on the top turn them over with a broad knife. When they are a light brown colour on both sides they are ready, but they should not be turned twice. CREAM SCONES. 1^ breakfast cupfuls of Flour. I 1 teaspoouful of Sugar. Piece of Butter size of Egg, or 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. J that size if Cream is used. | 1 Cup of Sweet Milk or Cream. Put the flour into a basin, with the baking powder and sugar. Add the butter, and rub it in till it is quite powdered in the flour, then make the whole into a paste with the milk. Divide it in two pieces. Take one piece and roll it out quite thin and round. Cut the edges smooth and even, then cut in eight, similar to the divisions of a wheel. Have a perfectly clean griddle very warm. Bake about 5 minutes altogether, turning the scones once. If cream can be had instead of the milk the butter is unnecessary, or only a small bit need be used.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Sick nursing is even more essentially women’s work than housekeeping, and requires knowledge, combined with tenderness and care, a feeling heart, and skilful hands. Fresh air is most essential to a sick-room, as many forms of sickness cause the air to become very impure, and impure air, being lighter than pure, ascends to the roof of the room; therefore let the window be open a little at the top to permit the foul air to escape. A good fire is also necessary in order to keep up the tem- perature, as well as to induce a current of fresh air. Cleanliness in the arrangement of the room is as essential as fresh air; and in the cooking and serving of food great care ought to be taken that everything is so nicely arranged that the fastidious eye of the invalid may be refreshed and the appetite stimulated. A rustling dress or a heavy foot should never enter a sick room, nor a loud voice be heard. A sick person’s nerves are morbidly acute, and trifling noises that would not be noticed in health cause positive pain to an invalid. The food of the sick should be varied as much as possible, and prepared in the very best manner that the materials will admit of. Beef tea particularly requires skilful preparation, as life and returning health often depend upon it. Nice toast or grated bread may be used with beef tea, as well as other things of the same kind.COOKERY. 108 It may also be coloured a little brown with either ketchup or Harvey sauce to make it look appetising, as what commends itself to the eye is usually more easily digested than what is taken unwillingly, or is repulsive in appearance; at the same time it should be remembered that the body is nourished not by what is eaten, but by what is digested. BEEF TEA—Simple Way. $ lb. Lean Beef. | Small Pinch of Salt, breakfast-cupfuls of Water. Chop up the beef as finely as possible, and put it into a jelly-can, with the salt and the water, stirring it with a fork for a few minutes. Cover the jelly-can with a paper, and put it into a saucepan containing a little boil- ing water, and put it on the fire to steam for 20 to 30 minutes, with the lid of the pot on, after which strain it through a coarse strainer, or pour it off, holding back the meat with a knife, otherwise the part of the beef tea which is food for the invalid is lost. The very best lean beef should be used for beef tea. BEEF TEA-Best Way. ^ lb. Lean Beef. Very small pinch of Salt. Water. Chop up the beef very finely, and put it in a large jelly-can, with a small pinch of salt. Mix in a jug equal quantities of boiling and cold water, which produce a temperature slightly over tepid, and pour a breakfast- cupful and half of it among the beef. Cover the jelly-can with a piece of paper, and set it in a pot with the remainder of the mixed water (it ought to come to the height ofSICK-ROOM COOKERY. 109 water in the jelly-can); then put the lid on the pot and set it near the fire, where it will keep about the same temperature, for an hour, but it must on no account boil. After that strain off all the liquid and set it aside, and put the meat in a small sauce-pan with a large teacupful of water, and allow it to boil for at least a quarter of an hour; strain this also, and add it to what was previously set aside. The beef tea thus obtained may be boiled for use, or merely heated, and contains all the stimulating and nourishing properties of the meat. RAW BEEF TEA. J lb. Lean Beef. 1 teacupful Cold Water. 1 Pinch Salt. Chop up the meat finely, and mix it with the water and salt; mix with a fork, and allow it to stand for a quarter of an hour or longer; then strain it off for use. There are extraordinary healing properties in the unboiled juices of meat, and in cases of extreme illness this is invaluable. This beef tea may be made palatable by heating it a little (not boiling), and flavouring with a little ketchup or Harvey sauce. On no account should wine or spirits be used to flavour. VEAL JELLY. 1 lb. Lean Veal. Turnip, size of an egg. 1 breakfast-cupful of Water. Pinch of Salt. Slice the veal very thinly, and put in a jar alternately with slices of the turnip cut very thinly, to which add a small pinch of salt, and the water. Cover the jar110 COOKERY. very tightly with a paper, and put it in a sauce-pan of boiling water coming more than half-way up the jar, and boil continuously for 4 hours; then strain and use. This is a strong jelly and very nourishing. Turnip is particularly good for chest complaints. MILK 1 cleaned Calf s Foot. 1 pint Water. 2 inches Cinnamon. JELLY. 1 tablespoonful of Sugar. 1 pint Milk. £ Lemon Rind thinly pared. Scald the foot and scrape it very clean, and put it on to boil with the water. Let it boil gently for 2 hours, then add the milk, cinnamon, and lemon rind, and gently simmer for 2 hours longer. Sweeten with the sugar, then strain and pour it into a shape to get cold. This is most nourishing for children or invalids. BEEF TEA PUDDING. 1 breakfast-cupful of weak Beef Tea. 2 Eggs. 1 table-spoonful of Bread, grated. Salt. Soak the bread crumbs in the beef tea, and allow it to stand a few minutes. Beat up the eggs and add them with a very little salt; then pour all into a small dish, and bake for a quarter of an hour, or steam gently about half an hour till it gets firm. This is a very nourishing dish for the sickIll SICK-ROOM COOKERY. ARROWROOT. 1 dessert spoonful Arrowroot. 1 breakfast cupful of Milk or 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. Water. Wet the arrowroot in a small basin with a table- spoonful of cold milk. Boil what remains of the milk, and when boiling pour it over the arrowroot stirring all the time, and sweeten it with the sugar. It then be- comes a clear thick jelly. It is equally good made with either milk or water, but for some sicknesses water is preferable. It is made into a small pudding by the addition of one well-beaten egg stirred in and baked for a quarter of an hour. Arrowroot is best not to be boiled. EGG DRINK. 1 Egg. 1 breakfast-cupful of Sweet 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. Milk. Beat the egg and the sugar well with a fork. Boil the milk and pour it boiling on the egg, stirring vigorously all the time. This is a most invigorating and strengthening drink, and should be taken when hot. SUET AND MILK. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk. | 1 tablespoonful Suet chopped up. Boil the milk and suet together for 10 minutes, and strain ; add either a teaspoonful of sugar or a small pinch of salt. This is excellent for a weak chest.112 COOKERY. APPLE FOOL. 4 Apples. Sponge Cake. 1 dessert-spoonful of Sugar. 1 Egg. Bake 4 nice apples till quite soft, and scrape the pulp out; add to it the sugar and a small slice of sponge cake crumbled up, and one egg well beaten. Whisk all together with a fork, stir over the fire till it gets hot, then dish it nicely, and use either hot or cold. FLOUR FOR INFANTS’ FOOD. To Boil.—Fill a breakfast-cup or small bowl quite full with flour, using the knuckles to press it down tightly. Tie a cloth over the top and plunge it in a pot of boiling water, and boil continuously for 4 hours. The cloth is then removed, the outside scraped off, and the flour put into a jar for use. To Bake.—Put the flour into a basin in the same manner, and bake in the oven for 4 hours. The brown outside in this case is scraped off, and the flour used in the same way. The baking or boiling of the flour prevents it becoming acid on the stomach, and it is more nourishing for infants than corn flour. It should be prepared as corn flour is. Boil the rice and milk together, stirring till it gets thick. After allowing it to cool, add an ounce of butter, an ounce of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, and bake for half an hour. RICE PUDDING. 3 oz. Rice. 1 pint Milk. Butter. Sugar. Nutmeg.113 SICK-ROOM COOKERY BREAD PUDDING, WITH EGG. £ lb. Bread Crumbs. Sugar. 1 pint Milk. Nutmeg. 1 Egg. Boil the milk and pour it on the bread-crumbs and let it stand for one hour. Add an egg, well beaten, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg or essence; mix all together and bake for half an hour, or steam for three-quarters of an hour. Salt may be substituted for the sugar. BREAD PUDDING, WITHOUT EGG. £ pint of Milk. | Bread Crumbs. | Sugar. Pour half a pint of boiling milk over a slice of bread without crust. Let it stand covered up till all the milk is absorbed; then tie it up in a cloth, and boil for twenty minutes. Sprinkle some sugar over, and serve hot. GRUEL. Put in a small basin a table-spoonful of Scotch oat- meal, and after wetting it with a very little cold water, pour over it a pint of boiling water or milk, stirring all the time; stir for a few minutes, then allow it to settle one minute. Pour carefully into a clean sauce-pan all the liquid, which stir over the fire till it boils. Let it boil for ten minutes, when it is ready for use. It may be sweetened with honey, sugar, treacle, or may be flavoured with salt and a small piece of butter, but should be taken very hot. H114 COOKERY. LEMONADE. Peel a lemon thinly, and put the peel in a jug; take the white skin off and slice the pulp into the jug; add 2 oz. of sugar, and pour over all a pint and a half of boiling water. Cover the jug, and let it stand till cold; then strain into tumblers. This is made effervescent by the addition in the tumbler of a quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. LEMONADE, WITHOUT LEMON. 1 oz. Cream of Tartar. 1 teaspoonful Essence of 2 oz. Sugar. Lemon. This can be made when lemons are not to be had. Put the cream of tartar in a jug with the lemon essence and sugar; pour over it 2 pints boiling water, and let it stand to cool. BLACK CURRANT JAM WATER. 2 table-spoonfuls Jam. Put the jam in a nice clean sauce-pan with a pint of water, and allow it to simmer for half an hour; then strain, and drink it as hot as possible; but if to allay thirst, it is better cold. For a sore throat an additional spoonful of jam should be used. TOAST AND WATER. Toast the quarter of a slice of bread till it is quite brown in every part without being in the least burned. Have a jug, with three breakfast-cupfuls of cold water in it, into which put the bread, and allow it to stand for a few hours115 SICK-ROOM BEVERAGES. Hot water is frequently used instead of cold, but the water is scarcely so clear and nice. In this case it must cool before being used. The water is put in the jug first and the bread put in, otherwise the bread gets crumbled. It is a most refreshing drink. BARLEY WATER. 2 oz. Barley. ^ Lemon Rind. 1 dessert-spoonful of Sugar. 1 quart Water. Wash the barley well, and put it in a saucepan with a quart of cold water; add the rind of half a lemon, very thinly pared off, and boil for half an hour, afterwards add the sugar, and strain into a jug to cool. CLEAR BARLEY WATER. 1 table-spoonful of Barley. 3 teacupfuls of Water. Small bit of Lemon Rind. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. Wash the barley well, and put it in a jug with the lemon rind and sugar; pour over it 3 teacupfuls of boil- ing water, then cover the jug and stand to get cold, when it may be poured off for use. The barley in those recipes can be used again, as it is said to be better the second than the first time. RICE WATER. 3 oz. Whole Rice. 1 inch Stick Cinnamon. 1 quart Water. Sugar. Wash the rice well, and put it, with the water and cinnamon, into a sauce-pan to boil for an hour, then strain and put aside to cool, when sugar should be added to taste. This is a valuable remedy in cholera, dysen- tery, and similar sicknesses, but in those cases no sugar should be used.116 COOKERY. APPLE WATER. 3 Apples. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Water. £ Lemon Rind. Pare and cut the apples up in small pieces, and put them into a jug, adding the lemon rind and sugar; pour over all the water, boiling; cover the jug and stand aside to cool. LEMON WHEY. 1 Lemon. I 1 breakfast-cupful of Water. 1 breakfast-cupful of Milk. | 1 dessert-spoonful of Sugar. Put the milk and water into a sauce-pan with the juice of a lemon, which boil and strain. The whey part is then sweetened with the sugar, and drank when very hot. This is excellent for a cold, as all wheys are sudorific, or causing perspiration. TREACLE POSSET. 1 breakfast-cupful of Milk. | 1 dessert-spoonful of Treacle. Put both in a small pan to boil; when it boils let it stand to settle a few minutes, then strain. It will have curdled, as in the previous recipe. The whey part is used very hot for a cold. KOUMISS-A Drink for the Sick. A Stimulating, Nourishing, Effervescing Drink. 1 pint (2 breakfast - cupfuls) 4 pints Sweet Milk. Butter Milk. 5 lumps of Lump Sugar. Mix both kinds of milk together, add the sugar, and pour the whole from one jug to another till the sugar is melted; it takes about a quarter of an hour. Let it117 BEVERAGES. stand in a warm corner of the kitchen for 12 hours, covered with muslin ; then bottle it in pint bottles, tie down the corks with string, and in four days it is ready for use. Let the bottles lie on their sides. Pint bottles are most convenient, as when a bottle is opened the koumiss should be soon used. BOSTON CREAM 3 quarts of Water boiled. 1^ lbs. of White Sugar. A Summer Drink. 2 oz. Tartaric Acid. Whites of 2 Small Eggs. teaspoonfuls Lemon Essence. Boil the water and allow it to get cold, then stir in all the other ingredients (beating the 2 whites of eggs stiffly first), and mix well, and put past in bottles for use. When using it, put into a tumbler about half a salt- spoonful of carbonate of soda, and half fill the tumbler with water, which mix. Pour in a glassful of the cream, when a froth rises to the top immediately, and makes a delicious drink like lemonade. LEMON 2 large Lemons. 3 lbs. White Sugar. SYRUP. 1 oz. Citric Acid. 6 breakfast-cupfuls of Water. Pare the rind of the lemons very thinly; put it in a very nice sauce-pan with the water, and boil gently for a quarter of an hour; then add the juice of the lemons, and boil for a quarter of an hour more with the lid very closely shut. Strain it all through a jelly-bag, and put it back into the pot with the sugar and citric acid, and let it all boil gently for 5 minutes. Allow it to cool, and bottle for use. This syrup is delightful, and will keep for any length of time. It may be used either with water or potass water.118 COOKERY. ORANGE SYRUP. 8 Valentia Oranges. 1 oz. Citric Acid. 3 J lbs. Sugar. 6 breakfast-cupfuls of Water. This syrup is made precisely iu the same way as the lemon syrup, with this exception, that the rind of only 4 of the oranges is used. The rind must be pared very thinly. The oranges are best in December and January for making this syrup, when the fruit is heavy and sour. RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 2 lbs. Raspberries or Straw- 1 oz. Citric Acid. berries. 1^ breakfast-cupfuls Water. 1^ lbs. White Sugar. Mix the citric acid and the water together, and pour both over the fruit; let it stand thus for 24 hours, and strain it through a jelly-bag. Now add the sugar, and dissolve it over the fire, or merely allow it to stand for a day till quite dissolved. When cold, bottle for use. Syrups may be made from different varieties of fruit in a similar manner to the foregoing, and, if well corked, will keep for years. RASPBERRY VINEGAR, lbs. Raspberries. | 1 bottle of Vinegar. | Sugar. Put the raspberries in a basin and pour over them the vinegar, bruising the berries well with a spoon ; allow it to stand thus for two or three days. Strain it then through a jelly-bag without pressure, and to each breakfast-cupful of juice allow half a pound of white sugar. After boiling for 5 minutes, skim it, and when quite cold, bottle it for use.BEVERAGES. 119 TEA. Much has been said and written regarding the uses of tea. And without presuming to discuss its effects upon the system, we may remark that it is certainly possible to abuse the use of tea as many other blessings are abused. Many men and women, however, tired in brain or body, have gratefully acknowledged the blessings and comfort of “a cup of tea.” Tea contains a volatile oil, which has a peculiar effect upon the nerves, reviving the body, and driving away drowsiness; while at the same time it has a soothing effect on the heart and circulation, and is thus beneficial in removing nervous headaches. It also contains a peculiar substance called theine, which Leibig says “plays a part in the nourish- ment of the body.” It causes perspiration, and weak tea is useful on that account to persons suffering from cold. Tea is nearly always acceptable to invalids, to whom it is extremely refreshing. It can also be used as a means of conveying nourishment when necessary, such as a well-beaten egg in addition to milk or instead of it. To Make Tea Well.—The teapot should be perfectly clean and hot. The water should be soft, as hard water will spoil the best tea. If the kettle boils for any length of time the water becomes hard, and consequently does not make good tea. Have the teapot hot, put in the quantity of tea desired, and immediately the kettle boils infuse it. The time required for infusing must be judged by the quality of the tea. It sometimes requires 10 minutes, sometimes only 5 to make it good. On no account should it boil or infuse a long time, as in that case it is no better than stewed tea leaves. The120 COOKERY. quantity of tea used must be judged also by the quality of the tea and the strength required. The traditional teaspoonful to each person and one over for the teapot is a very fair proportion. The abuse of tea consists in taking it too frequently, too strong, and too hot; in all these cases it has a pernicious effect. An excellent mode of using tea, which is becoming common, and is particularly acceptable for invalids, is to make it in the usual way, but not too strong, and to each breakfast-cupful of tea add a very thin slice of a small lemon. Allow it to stand a few minutes, then sweeten and use it. COFFEE. Coffee has more nutritive powers than tea, and is to most people not so stimulating. Taken very strong it is a stimulant; but generally it has a sedative effect on the nerves, and is on that account good to take late in the evening. Coffee is best when newly roasted and ground, and cannot be really good unless it is so. Only those who can procure such can secure the proper flavour of coffee. Have a perfectly clean and dry coffee-pot. Make it hot, and put in the coffee in the proportion of one table-spoonful to two breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, and allow it to infuse for 10 minutes. Pour out a cupful and pour it quickly back again, and allow it to stand by the fire a minute or two longer, then pour it out for use. The milk ought to be boiled before being put into the coffee, as boiled milk imparts a peculiarly pleasantBEVERAGES. 121 flavour to the coffee. Coffee should never be boiled, only infused, and the best white sugar used, as coarse sugar spoils the flavour. As it is sold frequently mixed with chicory, the adul- teration can easily be discovered by putting a little of the mixture in a glass of cold water. If there is chicory, it colours the water red and sinks to the bottom of the glass, whereas pure coffee floats on the top. COCOA. Cocoa is a very nourishing beverage, and very suitable for those persons of nervous temperament for whom tea or coffee is too stimulating. It is sometimes found to be a little indigestible though nourishing. Put 2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa in a breakfast-cup, and moisten it with a little cold milk or water, then fill up the cup with boiling milk and water in about equal proportions; stir well, and sweeten to taste. Cocoa is very much adulterated, and, indeed, to such an extent that prepared cocoa is frequently sold at a cheaper rate than the nibs can be procured at. For this reason many persons use cocoa nibs, which must be bruised and boiled for about 3 or 4 hours; then the floating fat removed from the top. It yields a very pleasant and much lighter beverage than the other. Water which has been boiled for any length of time should not be used for any kind of food or drink, as long boiling causes the water to lose its gases, and its mineral substances get deposited on the bottom and sides of the kettle, making the water insipid and less nourishing.PRESERVES. APPLE JELLY. 4 lbs. Apples. | 1 Stalk Rhubarb. | Sugar. Wipe and quarter the apples, remove the stalks and the seeds; wipe the rhubarb, and cut it up in pieces; put all on in a preserving pan with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil gently for a quarter of an hour, or till the apples are quite a mash; pour it then into a pointed jelly-bag, and allow it to drain without pressure. Measure the juice, and to each pint add 1 lb. of sugar; put the preserving pan on the fire, and bring to the boil, stirring frequently. Boil for a quarter of an hour, after which skim and pot. GOOSEBERRY JAM. 4 lbs. Gooseberries. 1 4 lbs. Sugar. Pick the stalks and stems from the gooseberries, and wash them well. Put them on in a preserving pan with the sugar, half a pint of currant juice or water, and stir frequently till boiling. Allow them to boil for a quarter of an hour, then skim and fill into pots. Raspberry, damson, and black currant jams are made in the same way as gooseberry. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 4 lbs. Gooseberries. 1 \ lb. Red Currants. | Sugar. Wash the gooseberries and currants, and put them in a preserving pan with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water; bring it to boiling point, and after boiling gently for 5PRESERVES. 123 minutes, pour all into a pointed flannel jelly-bag, and allow it to drain quite dry. Measure the juice, and to each pint of juice add 1 lb. of sugar; put the pan on the fire, and stir frequently till it boils, allowing it to boil for 10 minutes; then skim and pot. RED CURRANT JELLY. 4 lbs. Currants. | 1 lb. Raspberries. | Sugar. Pick the larger stalks and leaves from the currants and raspberries, and wash the currants in cold water. Put all on in a jelly-pan with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and allow them to heat gradually to boiling point, stirring frequently, then let them boil gently for about 10 minutes. Pour the whole into a pointed flannel jelly-bag to drain till all the juice has run out without pressure. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow 1 lb. of sugar, and add half a pound more. Put this on the fire, and stir frequently till it boils; allow it to boil for 5 minutes, then skim and pot. Three black currant leaves, added to this quantity and boiled with the currants at first, gives a fine flavour; in that case, leave out the raspberries. The currants may be put in the pan again with a little more water and heated; then squeezed through a coarse linen cloth, and boiled in the same way with sugar, which makes a secondary kind of jelly. A pint is 2 very small breakfast-cupfuls. Crystallised sugar is best for preserves.COOKERY. 124 The best way to pot preserves is to have clean pots quite ready; papers cut the proper size,, with the name of the preserve written thereon; and a little common paste made. Have the papers rubbed round with paste, and as each jar is filled, let the paper be instantly put on, when it may be wiped and stored past. If not instantly covered, then they must stand till quite cold. STRAWBERRY JAM. 4 lbs. Strawberries. | 4 lbs. Sugar. Pick the strawberries nicely, and put some of them iu a deep basin; sprinkle sugar pretty thickly over them; then repeat strawberries and sugar till all are used up, and allow them to stand thus for 24 hours. There will then be a good deal of liquid in the basin, which pour off into the preserving pan, and bring to boiling point, stirring frequently; then add the strawberries, and boil for 20 minutes; after which skim and pot. Some varieties of strawberries do very well to be picked and put on at once with the sugar; in that case, an improvement is to put on with the strawberries and sugar a cupful of currant or other fruit juice, or even water, to moisten the sugar, as the fruit gets too much broken when all is dry at first. ORANGE MARMALADE, 4 lbs. Bitter Oranges. 2 Lemons. 5 lbs. Crystallised Sugar. Water. Wipe the oranges with a hard cloth, and pare the yellow part of the rind very thinly off, and cut it up inPRESERVES. 125 extremely slender chips ; then put those chips on in a small sauce-pan, with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, to boil slowly for half an hour. Remove all the skin from the oranges, break the pulp up a good deal, and put it in a jelly-pan with 5 break- fast-cupfuls of water to boil gently for half an hour, stirring occasionally; then pour all this into a pointed flannel bag, and let it drain thoroughly. Put all the liquid thus obtained, the chips, the liquid in which they were boiled, and 5 lbs. of sugar, on in a clean jelly-pan; stir, and allow it to boil for a quarter of an hour; then skim and pot. CANDIED PEEL. Skins of 6 Oranges or Lemons. | 1 lb. Crystallised Sugar. Put the skins in salt and water to soak for a few days; then put them on in a saucepan, with fresh cold water, to boil till they are quite soft, which is known by the head of a pin being easily put in. Remove them from the saucepan, drain, and put them in a basin. Boil a pound of sugar and a breakfast-cupful of water for a few minutes, and pour it over the peel in the basin, and allow it to stand thus for about a week. Pour the syrup into the saucepan and allow it to boil up; put the peel in and let it boil gently till it looks clear, which will be in about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Take it out and spread it on a dish, put a little of the syrup in the hollows, dust some fine sugar over, and put it in the sun or a warm place till dry and candied. When dry put away in a jar.COOKERY. 126 MISCELLANEOUS. PORRIDGE. I teacupful of Oatmeal. | £ teaspoonful of Salt. 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Water. Put the water in a clean pot, and when it boils stir the oatmeal very gradually in among it, and allow it to boil very gently for half an hour, stirring frequently; then sprinkle the salt in and boil for ten minutes longer; dish in a plate or bowl. If porridge is preferred rather thick, a little more meal may be used. OMELETTE. 1 table-spoonful of Flour. I 1 teacupful of Milk. 1 table-spoonful of Sugar. j A few drops of Essence ol 2 Eggs. 1 pinch of Salt. | Lemon Put the flour, sugar, and salt into a basin, and mix them together; then put the yolks of the eggs into a bowl, stir them till they are a little light, and add the milk to them. Add both gradually to the flour in the basin, taking care to prevent it getting into lumps. Beat the whites to snow, and add them gently with the essence to the rest of the mixture. Melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a frying-pan, then pour in all the mixture, and hold it over a very gentle fire for 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour, till set and well risen, then hold it in front of the bars to brown the top, or bake it in an oven for a quarter of an hour.Washing and ironing. White clothes ought to be soaked for a few hours in soap, melted in hot water, and a little washing powder. This loosens the grease, and saves rubbing, which wears out material very much. Window blinds, and anything that is smoked, should be allowed to soak in cold water and wrung out again. © © Flannels are best washed in tepid water, in which is mixed a little melted soap and washing powder. For this purpose it is profitable to cut down thinly a few pounds of yellow soap, and melt it in a pot with water in the proportion of about 1 lb. of soap to 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Flannels should be rubbed as little as possible, as rubbing causes them to shrink. Very hot water has the same effect, and unites with the soap to discolour flannel. Coloured flannels and strips of sofa blankets should be washed in barely tepid water, in which a good piece of ammonia and a handful of melted soap has been dis- solved, and dried quickly thereafter. Blankets are washed in exactly the same way as flan- nels as regards soap, washing powder, and the tempera- ture of the water. They should be first washed in tepid water, with plenty of melted soap and a little washing powder; quickly washed and tightly wrung out with a wringing machine, if possible; then in a second tub of water, with much less soap and no washing powder, and wrung out once more. They are improved, if much soiled, by a third washing through tepid water, which may beWASHING AND IRONING. 128 slightly tinged with blue; then wrung out tightly, well shaken, and folded for ten minutes before being hung out to dry. They ought to be dried very quickly, and frequently shaken, to raise the pile of the blankets and draw them into shape. The process of washing blankets seems to differ in different countries. In Scotland the custom is and has always been to tramp the blankets with the feet, in a tub of water, which knocks them about well, and washes them quickly. In England this is performed by the hands or machines. Either way does, so that the blankets are well and quickly cleansed without much rubbing. Silk scarfs and stockings are better washed in tepid water with white soap dissolved in it, then rinsed quite free from soap, wrung dry within the folds of a towel, and ironed dry on the wrong side, having a muslin cloth between the iron and the silk. Fruit stains are removed by being wet in soap and water, and exposed to the sun and air. If that fails, wet the stain, and rub it with bleaching powder or liquid chloride of lime diluted with a little water; then wash, and expose to the sun and air. Chloride of lime will remove all marks and stains, but requires to be very carefully used, as it is of an exces- sively burning nature, and the stain may be replaced by a hole. There is little danger, however, if the part is wet, and the chloride of lime diluted a little. Ink stains should not be touched with soap or soda, as that immediately changes the ink stain into one of iron- mould. Wet ink stains, and rub them over with some acid, or wash in butter milk—the stronger the' acid the more quickly the stain is removed. Stains of mildew are difficult to remove. Rub with soap, wet well, and expose to the sun and air for129 WASHING AND IRONING. several days, always keeping the stains wet and soaped. A little fine chalk rubbed over the place while wet and in the air sometimes removes the stains, but chloride of lime, applied in the manner previously described, is the easiest way. MODEL WASHING. The day before the washing, look out all the articles that require to be washed, and arrange them in lots; mend what requires to be mended, and soak what should be soaked. Mix hot water and soap, in the proportion of a quarter of an inch from a bar of soap to a gallon of water, and a full dessert-spoonful of washing powder. (The soap is better to be melted beforehand.) Into this put body linen, shirts, and linen collars to soak all night. The bed linen may be soaked in cold water, or just put aside dry, waiting till its turn comes ; the laces and fine muslins tied up by themselves; flannels shaken well, and put together by themselves ; and window blinds and curtains put in cold water, to draw out the smoke that has gathered on them. Begin work early on the washing day. The best part of the day is the forenoon, and an hour gained in the morning is worth two later in the day. The first thing to do is to light the boiler-fire, and have plenty of hot water; add some of it to the soaked clothes. Wash them out carefully, removing all stains. The soaking will have rendered hard rubbing almost unnecessary. Put them into a second tub with warm water, and wash again, always beginning with the finest articles. Then have a tub with plenty of cold water in it; drop them into this, and let them lie in it a short time.130 WASHING AND IRONING. Fill up the boiler with cold water; put into it a quarter of an inch of soap to each gallon of water, and a dessert- spoonful of washing powder (soda is not nearly so nice, as it gives linen a greyish colour); wring the clothes roughly out of the cold water, and put them in the boiler; cover with the lid, and let them boil gently for about ten or fifteen minutes. The rinsing in cold water before they are boiled has the great advantage of removing all the dirty water from the clothes, otherwise it gets boiled into them, and injures the colour. When boiled enough, take them out of the boiler; add more water and soap, and put in the next quantity ready, always remembering the finest are done first. Now pour some cold water on the boiled clothes, wash them out, and rinse them once or twice. The water they are first rinsed in had better be hot, as it extracts the soap much better than cold water ever will. Let them be well wrung out of the last rinsing. They must now be blued, that is, put in water tinged with blue. Put in a tub a small quantity of water, and tinge it well with blue. Dip each article in and wring it out; shake, fold, and set it aside. Never allow clothes to lie in blue water, or put more than one in at a time; but just dip once or twice, and wring out, repeating till all are finished. Add a little blue from time to time to keep up the shade. Repeat this process with the bed and table linen till all are finished, then hang them out to dry. Use up the soapy water in the tubs to wash kitchen towels, dusters, etc. This process keeps linen white and clean, but in the country, or wherever possible, after boiling, let the clothes be spread out on the grass to bleach. The sun and air have a magical effect in whitening linen, and they impart to it a sweetness and perfume which131 WASHING AND IRONING. dwellers in towns can only envy. After bleaching, rinse and blue as described above. Plenty of clear water, the sun and air, are the best and cheapest of all devices for making linen white and sweet, combined, of course, with the use of an active pair of hands. Fine muslins and laces must not be rubbed, but squeezed between the hands in melted soap and warm water, until they are clean. When to be boiled, they should be put into a little bag or bundle by themselves, to prevent them getting torn, and afterwards rinsed in the usual way. They do not require to be hung up to dry. They are just folded, rolled up in a clean towel, and put aside to be starched. The clothes already neatly hung out to dry must be attended to. Remember to have them folded before they are hung out, to remove the creases of the wringing, and they will dry much better. Pocket-handkei’chiefs should be folded double and hung up, three or four above each other, taken down when half dry, rolled up tightly, clapped, and they are ready to iron. Table-linen is treated in the same manner, taken down when very damp, very carefully folded, ready to mangle first, to give it a fine gloss, and afterwards ironed dry. Body-linen is dried much more; if too dry, it must be sprinkled with clean water to damp it very slightly, and rolled up for ironing or starching. Before finishing up this part of our washing, we must repeat that the linen must be washed perfectly clean; all the soap rinsed thoroughly out, and when blued wrung very tightly, then folded and clapped before hanging up to dry. It may be as well to remark here, that unless a very clean apron and dress are worn, it is nearly impossible that the linen will be spotless. The flannels come next, and require great care to pre-WASHING AND IRONING. 132 vent them discolouring or shrinking. Dissolve in the tub a handful of melted soap in as much warm water as will melt it; add a little washing powder and cold water till there is enough for the purpose. Put in one flannel garment at a time, and wash it quickly, not rubbing if it can be avoided, but knocking up and down, and from side to side, as rubbing flannel works its fibres into each other, and gradually gathers it thick. Squeeze out tightly rather than wring. (A wringing machine is particularly good for flannels.) When all are washed out—always beginning with the best—put more water, and very little soap this time, into the tub. The water should be no more than tepid. Wash well with a sort of rinsing motion, and squeeze out well and tightly; shake, fold, and put aside to dry. All flannels, particularly, but all body clothes as well, ought to be turned before they ai'e wrung out the last time before drying. Stockings should be turned and washed well on the wrong side, folded nicely and clapped before hanging up to dry. Flannels must be quickly dried either in the hot sun or before a good fire, frequently shaken, and drawn to a shape during the process of drying—the larger articles shaken by two people to set up the pile of the flannel To dry flannels slowly causes them to shrink. Coloured dresses, prints, chintzes, come next in order. They are washed in the same way as flannels, only no washing powder must be used, and they ought to be quickly washed and dried. The water should not be hot —only warm a little. Wash them quickly and well, and wring out hai*d. Then put more melted soap and warm water in the tub, and wash again. Afterwards rinse in pure cold water, and hang up to dry. Chintzes are better washed in this way, but a lump of ammonia dissolved133 WASHING AND IRONING. in the water improves and preserves the colour; then rinse well, and hang up to dry. Dresses or cotton stockings, with black or loose coloui's, should be rinsed in water with some salt in it, to prevent the colour running. Flannels after being well dried in the sun, if possible, should be toasted before a good fire, then folded up and put away; stockings put aside to be darned, if necessary, sorted in pairs and put past; all the other linen taken down and folded before they are per- fectly dry, to be ready for mangling and ironing. Body linen does not need to be mangled. Bed and table linen must be carefully folded and drawn ready to be mangled, and afterwards ironed dry. HOW TO MAKE AND USE COLD WATER STARCH. Have some white soap cut down thinly, and melt it with a little hot water. Have powdered borax, or lump borax powdered down. The propoi-tions given below are for Coleman’s starch, but any good starch suits, and the proportions can easily be ascertained by a single trial. Put in a basin 3 small table-spoonfuls of starch, and wet it to a paste with a large teacupful of cold water. Put into a cup a teaspoonful of the melted white soap, and a tea-spoonful of the borax, and dissolve them in half a teacupful of boiling water. Pour this now into the basin with the starch, and mix them well together till a nice froth gathers on the top. Have fine collars, cuffs, and other articles wrung tightly from the blue water. Take a few at a time, and wash them in this starch, rubbing them well all over,WASHING AND IRONING. 134 and wring them tightly. Put in some more, and repeat till all are finished, taking care only to put three or four collars in at a time, and always stir the starch up from the bottom of the basin, as it has a tendency to sink. When all are finished, fold them, and take a few at a time, and dry rub them, which rubs out any roughness the unboiled starch leaves. Now fold, and wring very hard within the folds of a towel, or put them through a mangle or wringer. Clap them well, and put aside to iron. If to be kept any time, they must be rolled up in a damp towel; but are best ironed at once. This starch is most suitable for collars, cuffs, etc., but does very well for muslin or cotton if diluted with cold water. HOW TO IRON COLLARS AND CUFFS STARCHED WITH COLD STARCH. Have a table with a thick flannel and a clean cotton or linen cloth tightly stretched upon it, and a clean iron, not too hot. Place the collar evenly on the table, and run the iron lightly along the wrong side first; turn it, and do the same on the right side. Repeat this once or twice rather quickly until the collar begins to feel a little dry. Then press heavily and evenly on the right side, taking care to pull out button-holes, and iron them straight. A fine polish is put on the collar by using the edge of the iron, and rubbing with it from the top of the collar to the band, leaning heavily on the iron all the time. See that the band is nicely polished as well as the collar. Curl it round, and set aside to harden. Cuffs are ironed in the same way, only if they ai'e re- versible, with a band in the middle, the band is ironed thoroughly and finished first before the cuff is touched.135 washing and ironing. HOW TO MAKE BOILED STARCH FOR SHIRTS, ETC. This is much the best and nicest starch for shirts muslins, and all fine fabrics. Ingredients required :—Starch, composite candle, sper- maceti, turpentine, boiling water. Warm a basin well with boiling water, and pour it out again. Put into the basin 4- table-spoonfuls of starch, and rub it down to rather a thick paste with warm water; add an inch of a small-sized composite candle, a bit of sperma- ceti, size of a small bean, and 4 drops of turpentine. Pour boiling water into the basin slowly, stirring very vigorously till the starch is cooked sufficiently, which is known by its becoming transparent. It ought to be a good thickness, not in the least watery. This is the proper thickness of starch to use for shirr,s, collars, etc. Have your linen rather damp. Dip in the breasts and collars of shirts first, and squeeze them tightly out. The wrists next. Repeat till all are finished, taking care to use the starch at once, and very hot, as it quickly becomes thick, and is not so easily used. Then give the starched parts a slight rub, clap them, and hang them up to dry thoroughly. When quite dry sprinkle over with clean cold water, to damp them thoroughly. Place the two sides of the breast together, fold, and roll up tightly for at least i day, when they are ready for ironing. In warm weather, after damping, roll all up in a damp cloth and put away.WASHING AND IRONING. 136 TO IRON LINEN STARCHED WITH HOT STARCH. A nice hot iron is required, at the same time it must not scorch. Place the collar or cuff evenly on the table, with the wrong side up. Iron it lightly. Turn it over, and iron the other side lightly first, more heavily next, and then very heavily and smoothly. Afterwards polish in the same manner as previously directed. Curl up, and put aside to get quite firm and dry. TO IRON A SHIRT. Place the back of the sleeve smoothly on the table; iron it; turn and iron the other side smoothly. Place the wrist-band smoothly on the table; iron it wrong side first, and then finish on right side. Next comes the shoulder-strap, then the neck-band or collar. The latter must be done extremely carefully, polishing it nicely. Double the back of the shirt, and iron it on both sides. Spread the shirt out now, and iron all the front of the shirt except the breast. Place a piece of board covered with flannel under the breast, and iron it very nicely, polishing highly at the last. Hang the shirt up to dry well, then fold neatly, and put away. TO DRESS LACE (A Simpler Way). Lace is best to be starched very slightly, either with very thinly made boiled starch, or with the liquid in which a little rice has been boiled.137 WASHING AND IRONING. Dip the lace in the starch, and squeeze it out. Clap it between the folds of a towel to partially dry it. It is always ironed on the wrong side. Place it on the table slightly picked out, and place a piece of muslin over it. Rub a cool iron over it several times, till it is a little dry. Take up the lace now, and with the fingers pick it out nicely to show the pattern and the edge as it was originally. Pass the iron over it again. Then pick out the lace once more, and carefully draw it to each side, and give it a final ironing. The iron used must be very cool, else the lace will be too stiff; but moving it about in the hands, and drawing it out, makes it flexible. Lace may also be washed and dressed thus:— Stitch a piece of muslin firmly round a bottle or piece of wood; tack the lace to this, winding it round the bottle, and cover it with thin muslin. Then let it soak for a time in melted soap and warm water, pouring the water over it; if very dirty, it may be steamed at the side of the fire, then rinsed, blued, and dipped in water in which a little rice has been boiled; finally, hung up to dry. When unwound from the bottle, it has only to be picked out a little, and either pressed between the covers of a book or ironed with a very cool iron on the wrong side.DOMESTIC ECONOMY. Good housekeeping consists greatly in saving—saving time and labour, furniture and food, and getting the largest amount of individual and family comfort, happi- ness, and appearance, out of the income at one’s disposal. A good housekeeper should see that no person’s energies are uselessly wasted in a wrong manner of executing house work, and that furniture is not wasted by want of care, and that food is not wasted by bad cooking. If a fireplace is kept very bright and clean, a much greater heat is obtained than if the surroundings of the fire are dull and dirty. If the fire is reflected on a pure white or even a brightly polished black surface, the heat is so much greater that a considerable saving of fuel may be effected. This is called radiation of heat, and is a perfectly established fact. A bright fireplace is not only comfortable looking, but really more com- fortable. Cinders ought to be separated from the dust, and put behind the fire, or in the stove; they also make the best beginning of a fire. Bad housekeeping shows itself in the waste of this particular item. Pots and pans, if greasy, ought to be washed inside and out with warm water, in which is a little soda. Once a week the sauce-pans ought to be scoured inside. Rub the inside of tinned sauce-pans well over with soap and a little very fine sand or bath-brick till they become quite bright, then wash them with warm water, and dry well. They ought to be put past without the lids on to keeD them fresh and sweet. i Tin covers, brass pans, etc., should be washed in warmDOMESTIC ECONOMY. 139 water and soap to remove smoke or grease, then dried, and polished either with whiting moistened with cold water, or polishing paste, and rubbed up with a dry cloth till quite bi'ight. Enamelled sauce-pans should be cleaned by being washed first in hot water and soda, inside and outside, to remove all grease, then scoured well with a cloth, rubbed over with soap and dipped in crushed egg shells; then washed out with warm water, and dried. Knives and forks should have the blades and prongs dipped in hot water and then dried ; it is injurious to the handles of knives to put them in hot water. Afterwards rub bath-brick on a knife-board, and polish the knives. Rub the steel forks with a slightly soaped flannel dipped in bath-brick, and polish with a dry cloth till bright. Spoons should be rubbed with whiting moistened in water, and afterwards polished with a dry cloth. Greasy dishes ought to be scraped clean, gathered in a pile, and washed with boiling water having a small piece of soda dissolved in it; dried first with a dishcloth wrung tightly, and afterwards polished with a dry cloth. Tea- cups, etc., should be dipped one by one in clean warm water, and dried carefully with a soft towel. Glass is best washed in cold water. Allow it to drain for some time, then dry and polish with a soft cloth. Wood is made and kept white by using cold water to scrub it, unless where there is grease; in that case, use warm water and a little soda. Wet the wood first with a flannel cloth, then sprinkle a little sand over it, rub a brush with soap, and scrub it well, rubbing with the grain of the wood ; then wash well with water, and dry thoroughly. A stair should always be swept with a short brush, holding a dust-pan in front of each step. If the stairDOMESTIC ECONOMY. 140 be of wood, it should afterwards be rubbed with a dry duster. Rooms in use should be brushed out daily with a short brush, and a dust-pan held in front of it. A hard brush is very wasteful for carpets, and brushing the dust out of the room into the hall or lobby sends it flying into corners, and causes much additional work. Afterwards the room ought to be carefully dusted with a clean, well-shaken dustei*. Once a week each room should have a thorough cleaning in every corner. Bedrooms require great attention as to cleanliness and ventilation, otherwise injury to health is the conse- quence. The fresh pure air inhaled is carried by the blood all over the body, and in its journey gathers up the impurity or waste of the body, and brings it back to the heart, from whence it goes to the lungs, and is sent out of the body by the breath exhaled. This breath is poisonous, and has often caused death; if per- sons must be in such a close space that no fresh air can be admitted, they are poisoned very quickly by the im- pure air they exhale. This impure air is much lighter than pure air, and ascends to the roof of a room first. The simplest way to ventilate a room is to have the window open a little at the top, to allow the impure air to escape, the space will then be filled with pure air, which will rush in under doors, at keyholes, and every available opening. A fire in a bedroom in sickness keeps the atmosphere of the room warm, though the window be slightly open at the top, and also ventilates the room by the current of fresh air that fire draws to it. When the room is small, and, it may be, several people sleeping in it, those pre- cautions are absolutely necessary, otherwise headaches and injury to health are the consequences. Bedroom carpets ought to be so easily lifted, that they may beDOMESTIC ECONOMY. 141 frequently shaken and the floor washed. Bedsteads ought to be drawn aside once a week, and the floor swept and washed underneath; the blankets taken off, and the bed left for an hour, before being made, to cool and air. Every corner of the house ought to get a thorough turn over once a week, and a good housekeeper will so manage that a portion is done every day, and thus no one is in- commoded, and the household machinery works smoothly. Personal cleanliness is more essential to health than the cleanliness and ventilation of the bedroom. The breath exhaled carries off a part of the waste of our bodies ; but our skin is covered with millions of small openings called sweat glands, and through those openings the blood sends a great portion of the waste of the body, just like the ashes dropping from a fire; and if the body is not washed frequently to keep the skin clean, the poi'es get filled up with sweat, and the blood is gradually poisoned. So that people must wash frequently, not only to look nice, but to keep the sweat glands open and allow the waste of the body to escape. Garments worn during the day next the skin, particularly flannel, should not be worn at night, as the dead organic matter coming out of the pores is sent back into the skin again, and is very unwholesome.INDEX Beverages— PAOE Apple Water, . .116 Barley Water, . .115 „ Clear, . 115 Black Currant Jam Water, . . .114 Boston Cream, . . 117 Cocoa, .... 121 Coffee, .... 120 Egg Drink, . . .111 Gruel, . . . .113 Koumiss, . . .116 Lemonade, . . .114 Lemon Syrup, . .117 Lemon Whey, . .116 Orange Syrup, . .118 Raspberry Syrup, . 118 „ Vinegar, . 118 Rice Water,. . . 115 Strawberry Syrup, . 118 Suet and Milk, . .111 Tea, .... 119 Toast and Water,. . 114 Treacle Posset, . .116 Cakes and Baking— Baking Powder, . . 95 Bread 95 Buns with Yeast,. . 97 Cream Scones, . . 106 Currant Cake, . . 102 Dropped Scones, . . 106 Gingerbread, . . 98 „ , . 99 London Buns, . .104 Oatmeal Biscuits,. . 105 Rock Cakes, . . .102 Shortbread, . . . 104 Soda Scones, . .105 „ Cake, . . . 100 Sponge Cake, . . 101 Sultana „ . . 100 Tea Cakes, . . . 103 „ Light, . 101 White Cake, . . 99 Domestic Economy, . . 138 Fish— Fish Pudding, . . 27 Haddock, Baked, . . 27 ,, or Cod, Boiled, 26 Herrings, Baked,. . 30 Fish—Continued. TAOS Salmon, Fried, . 30 Salmon, Boiled, . 31 Salt Fish—To Cook, . 28 „ Pie, . 29 To Fry Fish, To Stew Fish, . . 25 . 28 Laundry Work— Lace to Dress, . 137 Linen to Iron (Cold Starch), . . .134 Linen to Iron (Hot Starch), . . .136 Model Washing, . .129 Starch to Make (Cold), 133 „ „ (Boiled), 135 Meats— Boiled Meat Pudding, . 41 Breast of Veal Stuffed and Rolled, . . 39 Cold Meat Mince, . 55 Cold Meat Rolls, . . 56 Curried Rabbit, . . 52 Dutch Stew,. . .37 Fowl Trussed and Boiled, 49 Haricot Mutton, . . 40 Hough Stewed, . . 45 Irish Stew, . . .46 Kidney Pudding,. . 48 Liver and Bacon, . . 51 Mutton Stuffed and Rolled, . . .38 Ox Kidney Stewed, . 35 Ox Tail Stewed, . . 34 Pork Rolled (Breakfast Dish), . . .50 Rabbit Stewed, . . 35 Sausage Rolls, . . 50 Scotch Collop, . . 45 Scotch Haggis, . . 47 Sea Pie, . . .55 Steak and Onions Fried, 44 „ Pie, . . .43 „ Stewed, . . 42 „ Stuffed and Rolled, 36 Toad in a Hole, . . 47 Tripe and Onions, . 63 „ Stewed, . . 64 ,. To Clean, . . 53144 fNnFX. Miscellaneous— Omelette, . . Porridge, Pbeserves— Apple Jelly, . Candied Peel, , Gooseberry Jam, . „ Jelly, Orange Marmalade, Red Currant Jelly, Strawberry Jam, . Puddings— PAGE . 126 . 126 . 122 . 126 . 122 . 122 . 124 . 123 . 124 Apple and Orange Frit- ters, . . . .84 Apple and Rice Meringue, 87 Apple Dumplings, Baked, 82 „ Boiled, 81 Apple Pudding, Boiled, 80 Batter and Fruit Pud- ding, . . . .78 Black Cap Pudding, . 78 Bread „ . 69 Bread and Jam Pudding, 73 Cheese Fritters, . . 90 Com Flour Shape, . 79 Custard Pudding, . 86 Fig „ . 74 Fruit Tart, . . .82 Hominy, . . .88 „ and Cheese, . 89 „ Pudding, . 88 Lemon Cream, . . 87 Macaroni and Cheese, . 89 Marmalade Pudding, . 73 Pancakes, . . . 84 Plum Pudding, . . 71 Rice „ . . 77 Rice and Cheese, . . 90 Roly-Poly Pudding, . 80 Rothesay „ .71 Sago „ .76 Sago and Fruit „ . 83 Scrap Bread „ . 70 Semolina „ .76 Stewed Prunes, . 85 Tapioca Pudding, . 76 Treacle „ . .72 Umey „ . .74 Yorkshire „ . .79 SAUCE8— Apple, . . . .92 Brown, . . . .91 Clear, . . . .92 Custard. . . .92 Sauces—Continued, PAGE Egg, . • 91 French, 92 Mint, Melted Butter, m 93 93 Sweet Melted Butter, • 93 Sick-Room Cookery— Apple Fool, . • 112 Arrowroot, . • 111 Beef Tea, 108 „ Raw, . 109 „ Pudding, . 110 Bread Pudding, . Bread Pudding, with- 113 out Egg, . « 113 Flour for Infants’ Food, 112 Milk Jelly, . # 110 Rice Pudding, # 112 Yeal Jelly, . • 109 Soups— Bone, . # 20 Carrot, . . , Cottage, # 17 m 14 German, • 15 Green Pea, . • 18 Haricot Bean, • 12 Hotch Potch, 23 Kidney, 21 Lentil, . 13 Mutton Broth, m 16 Onion, . m 22 Potato, . # 18 Rice, # 20 Skate, . # 19 Skirt, . 16 Stock from Bones, • 17 Tomato, • 22 Windsor, • 14 Vegetables— Beetroot, To Pickle, Brussels Sprouts, . 66 • 61 Carrots, To Stew, 59 Cauliflower, To Boil, 60 Green Peas, To Boil, * 59 Haricot Beans Boiled, 61 Leeks Boiled, 65 Parsnips, Boiled, . , 64 „ Mashed, • 65 Potatoes, Boiled, . • 62 „ Mashed, • 64 Red Cabbage, Pickled 66 Spanish Onions, Boiled, 62 Turnips, To Boil, . • 60