TIA MATER—ITS STRUCTURE AND DISTRIBUTION. 153 the Membrane from the Substance underneath, so as to shew this appearance, is facilitated, by previously plunging the Brain into any of these substances, which have the property of coagulating; the Nervous Matter. The increased consis- tence which the Matter thus acquires, renders it less apt to be lacerated, and the little Vessels themselves are, at same time, made a little stronger. There seems to be no other connexion, between the Substance of the Brain and the Tia Mater, than by these Vessels; and it is they which give to this Membrane its hairy or villous appearance, when floated in water after its separation. The portion of the Pia Mater which covers the Convolu- tions of the Brain Proper, presents the same general appear- ance over the whole of the Hemispheres. On the top or most external part of each Convolution, it is very thin, and inseparably connected with the Arachnoid Membrane. In the Fossae between, the Convolutions, on the other hand, it is thick and loose in its texture. The prolongations which dip down between the Convolutions, are thickest towards the surface, and taper as they proceed towards the bottom of the Fossae. In most parts, the very opening of the Foss®, between the tops of the Convolutions, is occupied by a large Vein ; and immediately over this, and closely connected to it, is the Arachnoid Membrane. Along the whole of that part of the Longitudinal Fissure, which is placed immediately below the antei’ior portion of the Corpus Callosum, the Convolutions of the opposite Hemispheres are joined together by Pia Mater, just as in- timately as two contiguous Convolutions are, in either He- misphere. There is a similar union also of the Convolutions in the same Fissure, immediately before the anterior extre- mity of the Corpus Callosum, and above its two anterior thirds; but even in front, where the union is most extensive, it does not reach farther from the bottom of the Fissure than half an inch at the utmost, and from this gradually tapers