188 MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD. The first set are given off' by these Vessels after they have penetrated the Arachnoid Membrane, and have come into contact directly with the Pia Mater of the Top of the Cord. This they do, at the lower extremity of the Top, close to its side, but upon its anterior surface. They ascend, upon this surface, and at same time incline towards the Median Line, and of course towards each other; at last they run together, opposite the Annular Protuberance, forming, by their union, the Basilar Artery already described. The diameter of the Vessels, during this course, is generally about an eighth of an inch ; but they vary in their dimensions, and are frequently of unequal size on the opposite sides. Besides a number of Capillary Branches, throughout the whole of their progress, each of them gives off the two fol- lowing. 1. The Large Inferior Cerebellar Artery. This Vessel usually arises opposite the middle of the.Oblong and Oval Eminences, but often higher up on the one side than on the other. It is generally about a fifteenth of an inch in diameter. Extending outwards in a serpentine direction, it winds round to the posterior surface of the Top of the Cord, insinuating itself between the Cord and the Spinal Lobules of the Cerebellum ; there it sends certain branches to the Cord, and is then distributed on the Cerebellum, in the manner already described. The branch chiefly worthy of notice which it supplies to the Cord, is the Vessel usually denominated the Posterior Spinal Artery. This Vessel is only about a fiftieth of an inch in diameter. It runs down, close to the Posterior Median Fissure, to the very extremi- ty of the Cord; giving off Capillary branches in every di- rection. 2. The Anterior Spinal Artery. This Vessel com- monly arises from the inside of the Vertebral Artery, within an eighth of an inch of its termination in the Basilar ; often a little lower down on the one side than the other. It is generally larger, though sometimes less, than the Posterior Spinal Artery. It runs down, close to the Anterior Median