LOWER SURFACE OF TIIE CEREBELLUM. 115 portion, which, for the sake of brevity, we shall call the Head* of the Inferior Vernfiform Process, and which is the smallest of the three, is square shaped The fissure se- parating it from the Middle Part, is about a third of an inch deep. Its lower surface, which looks towards this fissure, is flat and laminated; its upper surface, which is turned towards the Central Fissure of the Cerebellum, is smooth, white, convex, and undivided. Two extremely delicate parts are connected with it later- ally, which may be called the Alee or Wings of the Inferior Vermiform Process . These are somewhat of a semilunar shape, the concave margin being turned forwards and in- wards, and the convex one in the opposite direction. Their breadth, in the middle, is from a quarter to three eighths of an inch, and their concave edge measures about three quar- ters of an inch. They are thinnest towards the anterior part, and no where thicker than silk-paper. Their inferior surface is white, smooth, and concave, and rests on the Spinal Lobules; their superior is smooth, white, and convex, and forms the floor of the Central Fissure. The whole of their anterior concave margin is free, and of their pos- terior convex one, attached. Their inner cornua are con- nected to the anterior angles of the Plead of the Vermiform Process, and, at this part, are in general split into two lamina for the extent of about an eighth of an inch. Their outer extremities are joined to the inner surface of the Sub-pe- duncular Lobules. The parts to be observed on each side of the Median Line, on the lower aspect of the Cerebellum, are the follow- ing- . • Synonym. Vicq d’Azyr includes this and the middle part under the name of “ Eminence Mammillaire du Vermis Inferior.” "t Synonyms. Ixit. Valvute Semicirculares Inferiores et Posteriores. Ft. Les Lames Semi-lunaires de 1’Eminence Mammillaire du Vermis In- ferior. Ger. Die Halbmond-fdrmigen Seiteutheile des Hinteren Marksegles, 2