195 MODE OF DISTRIBUTION. considered as its Or ti n. I wish it to be remembered, how- ever, that I do not understand by the term Origin applied to such Nerves, any eminences, or streaks, of any sort> which may chance to be connected with the particular part of the Central Mass, to which the Nerves are attached ; for that would imply a species of hypothesis, for which I am satisfied there is at present no good foundation. I mean by the Origin of such Nerves, that precise point merely, where, supposing them to spring from the Central Mass, as the trunk of a tree does from its root, they first completely leave this Mass. Thus I say, that the Origin of the Optic Nerves is in the Commissure of the Tractus Optici, and not in any of those parts with which the Tractus Optici are connected behind. This language, seems to me preferable to that which has long been very prevalent in the Continental Schools, because it is not founded on uncertain speculation. All those Nerves which have their Origin in the Central Mass, I propose to call Primary Nerves. The other Nerves of the Body take their Origin, either from Plexuses or Ganglia, or from larger Nerves, of which they constitute branches. All these, for the sake of bre- vity, may be denominated Secondary Nerves. The Termination of a Nerve, is, of course, always the op- posite extremity to its Origin; but the Terminations are various. A Nerve may terminate, by dividing into two or more branches; or by uniting with another Nerve ; or by running into a Plexus or Ganglion; or it may cease at once, or gradually disappear, in some of the other Textures or Organs of the Body. With respect, however, to this last species of Termination, all we can affirm is, that the Nerve appears to end abruptly or gradually in such parts ; whether it really does so or not, is, in every instance, uncertain. It may be prolonged a considerable way, after this appa- rent Termination, though imperceptible, even with the mi- croscope, from its minuteness or delicacy of texture, or 2