CENTRAL FISSURE OF THE BRAIN PROPER. 10.5 fact a continuation, and runs along the whole ol the Fis- sure to its anterior extremity. It preserves almost exactly the shape of the cavity of which it forms the floor ; only it is rounded along its outer margin, so that between this and the side of the cavity, there is a small triangular canal which runs from one end to the other. At its anterior ex- tremity, its surface exhibits several irregular depressions, which vary a good deal in their number and size. To its inner, concave, margin, a sort of fringe is attached, begin- ning at the posterior Pillar of the Fornix, which seems as if plaited inwards to form it, and terminating on the upper and posterior part of the Small Convolution of the Inner Lobule already described. This is what is called the Tania Hippocampi*. It is about a fifth of an inch broad at its upper extremity, but tapers a little below. Its surface is quite smooth, and of the same white colour as the Hippocampus itself. Between it and the upper surface of the Inner Convolution of the Middle Lobe, there is a fissure about an eighth of an inch deep, which is continued into the fissure between this Convolution and the Small Convolu- tion of the Inner Lobule, formerly mentioned. The surface of this fissure, formed by the Inner Convolution of the Middle Lobe, exhibits the appearance of a superficial ridge, of a grey colour, with a number of slight, transverse, indenta- tions. This ridge, at its upper extremity, where it is conti- nuous with the posterior angle of the Corpus Callosum, is as broad as the Tania Hippocampi. As it proceeds downward, however, it becomes gradualy narrower, and is entirely con- cealed by the Tania Hippocampi, which must be pushed gently outwards in order to bring it into view. It tapers to a point, about the middle of the fissure under the Small Convolution of the Inner Lobule. We shall call this ridge, the Indented Bandf. • Synonyms. Lat. Corpus Fimbriatum. Fr. Bandelette de I’Hypocampe. •y Thi9 Band was described by Vicq d’Azyr in the Mem. de l’Acad. Roj’’. des Sciences 1781, under the name of Bor de interne et dentcle de la Come