SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. 1U6 The opposite surface of the Anterior Lateral Part of the Central Fissure, presents a concavity corresponding to the convexity of the Hippocampus ; and in general, correspond- ing to the slight furrow between the Hippocampus itself and the Tania Hippocampi, there is a narrow ridge, continuous with the Tania Semicircular is in the Middle Part of the Cen- tral Fissure. The whole of this surface is smooth, and of a white colour. Between it and the Tania Hippocampi, and the inner half of the Hippocampus itself, a vascular plexus is interposed, which will be described afterwards. To what distance it is separated from the outer half of the Hippocampus, in the healthy state of the Brain, is uncertain : Along the outer margin of the Hippocampus, there is obviously a distinct canal, which is always open; but at other parts, I rather suspect, that the opposite surfaces of this portion of the Central Fissure are nearly, if not actually, in contact with each other The Posterior Lateral Part* of the Central Fissure, like the Anterior, is precisely the same in both Hemispheres. It is prolonged from the posterior corner of the Middle Part, almost horizontally backwards into the Posterior Lobe, forming a curve of which the convexity is turned out- wards. It varies a good deal in its dimensions; but in general its length is about an inch and a quarter, and its breadth about a quarter of an inch, except at its posterior extremity, where it is slightly pointed. Its inner surface is smooth, white, and convex, but much more prominent to- i'Ammon. It is represented, (though it must be confessed not very accu- rately) in Plates XV. and XX. of his Traite d’Anatomie. In the explanation of these Plates and of Plate XVI. he calls it, “ La portion grise, corticate, in- terne, godronnee, de la Come d’ Ammon." It is somewhat singular, that this description of Vicq d'Azyr's seems to have escaped the notice of Bichat. After mentioning, shortly, the situation of the Indented Band, he observes, “ Les Auteurs l’ont neglige, quoiqu’il soit aussi remarquable que le corps frange, &c.” Anatom. Descript. III. p. 94» * Synonyms. Fr. Ancyroide, Cavite Digitale.