146 SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. Strata of the first order, or Primary Strata, are such as arise directly from the Central Mass, and either branch off into Ternary Strata alone, or botli into Secondary and Ter- nary. They occur of all sizes, from the thickness of the smallest Secondary ones, to nearly a quarter of an inch. It would be in vain to attempt describing all these Strata individually, and very useless if it could be done. They may be in part traced, externally, by means of the different Fissures on the surface of the Cerebellum. The shallow- est Fissures, those which separate the Laminae from each other, correspond to the Ternary Strata; the next in point of depth, to the Secondary ; and the deepest of all, to the Primary ones. But this mode of tracing them is tedious and difficult, unless combined with sections of the Cerebel- lum. Every where, the different sets of Strata may be seen uniting with each other, Primary sometimes with Primary, at other times with Secondary or Ternary ; Secondary some- times with Secondary, at other times with Ternary, and so on. Some Strata are confined to the superior, some to the infe- rior surface of the Central Mass; others are placed chief- ly on its margin; and others again run obliquely from one surface to the other. All the Strata arising from the Mid- dle Part, are more or less intimately connected with those derived from the Lateral Parts. A very good general idea of the situation, and connexions, and number of the Strata, may be obtained by the two fol- lowing sections of the Cerebellum. In the first place, by a section passing exactly through the Median Plane. The Middle Part of the Central Mass, and the Strata arising from it, when thus divided, resem- bles very closely the ramifications of a tree, and the appear- ance is usually denominated the Arbor Vita. From the up- per surface of the Middle Part in this Section, five or six Primary Strata are in general seen arising. The most an- terior one, which arises close to the anterior margin, is about