SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. 144- in breadth; but they are only from half an inch to three quarters of an inch thick before, which is their thickest part, and taper from this backwards, and on each side. On the forepart, they are connected with the Peduncles of the Ce- rebellum, and with the Pillars of the Vieussenian Valve; and the Aim of the Inferior Vermiform Process are attached to their lower surface. \ The Middle Part is continuous with the inner White stra- tum of the Vieussenian Valve. It is about seven eighths of an inch in length, and about a quarter of an inch in breadth. In thickness it measures about a twelfth of an inch before, and tapers to nearly a fiftieth of an inch behind. The whole of the Central Mass is composed of Orange- White matter, except one portion in each Lateral Part. This portion is denominated the Corpus Dentatum*. It consists of a nucleus of Orange-White Matter, contained in a capsule of Wood-Brown Matter, not more than a fiftieth part of an inch in thickness. It varies in its dimensions a little ; but in general it measures, from before backwards, from three quarters of an inch to an inch ; from side to side, about half an inch or three quarters; and in heighth or thickness, from an eighth to a sixth of an inch in the middle, gradually ta- pering towards the edges. Its outline is sometimes qua- drangular, sometimes elliptical; and it sends off a number of processes from its surface, so that in whatever direction it is divided, the outline of the section appears jagged or ser- rated, and hence has arisen the name of Corpus Dentatum. It is lodged in the substance of the Lateral Part of the Cen- tral Mass; its margin upon the inside, coming within a sixth of an inch of the inner boundary of this Part. On the fore- part, where it rests, as it were, on the roof of the Central Fissure of the Cerebellum, the lower part of its capsule seems • Synonyms. Lat. Corpus Serratum. Fr. Corps Dentele ou Rbomboidal; Substance Rhomboidale; Noyau Central des Pedoncules.