PIA MATER—ITS ARTERIAL TRUNKS. 1G1 wards the outer margin of the Cerebellum. In their course, they send many very minute Vessels, to the Pia Mater co- vering the parts over which they pass, and one pretty large one dips down into the Peduncular Fossa. 2. The two Superior Cerebellar Arteries, one on each side. These usu- ally come off from the trunk, opposite to each other, about a tenth of an inch from its upper extremity; and are a little larger than the two last Vessels described. Each of them runs directly outwards, turns round the lateral bor- der of the Annular Protuberance, over the anterior extre- mity of the Peduncle of the Cerebellum, into the Semilu- nar Fossa, and then ascending, gets to the upper surface of the Cerebellum, and extends on this surface to the posterior margin, or even over it, so as to anastomose with branches of the Large Inferior Cerebellar Artery. In this course, it gives off numerous small twigs to the Pia Mater of the Pro- tuberance and Cerebellar Peduncules ; a branch of consider- able size*, which runs along the whole of the upper margin of the Peduncular Fossa, and at last terminates on the outer part of the Inferior Lobes ; small twigs to the Choroid Mem- brane and to the Pia Mater of the Corpora Bigemina, and of the Vieussenian Valve and its Pillars ; and numerous ra- mifications in every direction over the Laminae of the upper surface of the Cerebellum. 3. The two Posterior Arteries of the Brain Proper, one on each side. It is into these that the Basilar Artery divides when it terminates above. Each of them is about half the diameter of the Basilar Artery. They ascend at first in a curved direction upwards and outwards, on the Protuberance; then leaving this prominence, they incline backwards upon the inferior surface of the Inferior Lobes of the Brain Proper, and terminate towards the pos- terior extremities of these Lobes. In their course they give * Synottyms. Lat. Ramus Ccrebelli Anterior. Fr. Rameau du Pedun- cule du Cerveau. VOL. I. M