PTA MATER.—CHOROID MEMBRANE AND PLEXUS. 155 actly in shape and dimensions to the Fornix. Behind, it is continuous with the Pia Mater covering the posterior ex- tremity of the Corpus Callosum, the Posterior Lobes of the Brain Proper, the Corpora Bigemina, and the Mons Cere- belli. Bv its superior surface, it is connected intimately, through the medium of very delicate Arteries and Veins, to the whole inferior surface of the Fornix. By its lower sur- face, it is attached in the same manner to the inner half of the upper surface of the Thalami Optici, being continued di- rectly from one Thalamus to the other, over the opening of the Vertical Prolongation of this part of the Central Fissure, and over the Pineal Gland. The Pineal Gland, however, is further embraced by a doubling of this Membrane proper to itself. The attachment of the Membrane to the Thalami, is more intimate along its lateral margins than elsewhere; and it is this which gives rise to that appearance of a rough dia- gonal line taken notice of at p. 101, on the surface of the Tha- lami, when the Membrane is removed. The portion of the Choroid Membrane which extends into the Anterior Lateral Part of the Central Fissure, is continuous, behind and above, with the portion just described; and below, with the Pia Mater covering the posterior and inferior surface of the Tha- lami, the Corpora Geniculata, the posterior part of the Pe- duncles of the Brain Proper, and the Inner Convolution of the Middle Lobe. It is but a narrow strip, corresponding in length and breadth precisely to the Taenia Hippocampi, between which and the Thalamus Opticus it is situated, and to each of which it is intimately attached by means of fine Bloodvessels. Both portions of the Choroid Membrane resemble the external Pia Mater in structure; being com- posed chiefly if not entirely of Bloodvessels. They form a web of which the texture is very close. Some of the Veins belonging to the middle portion of it, are of considerable size, and will afterwards be taken notice of. In general too, there seems to be attached to the inferior surface of this por-