SUBSTANCE of the spinal cord. ISO than others, in particular instances; and sometimes the incli- nation of the upper Ridges is so great, that they stretch into the Central Fissure of the Cerebellum. The Ridges on the opposite sides are seldom or never exactly alike. The Peduncles of the Cord on each side, form, on the forepart, a deep Triangular Pit with the Oval Eminences, the lower border of the Annular Protuberance, and the in- ferior margin of the Peduncles of the Cerebellum; and from this Pit, a slightly convex space extends downwards and backwards, narrow at first and widening as it proceeds, which separates the remaining part of the Peduncles of the Cord from the Oval Eminences. In describing the lower surface of the Peduncles of the Cerebellum, I had occasion to take notice of a white ridge upon it, running backwards and inwards, from the origin of the Auditory Nerve. From the inner extremity of this ridge, a Ridge of a Greyish-Brown colour, is almost always found running round the top of the Peduncle of the Spinal Cord, close to its connection with the Cerebellum, and ter- minating at the angle at the base of the Triangular Fossa*. I have found this Ridge once wanting on the right side in an Adult Male, and the Wenzels once found it wanting in an Adult Female on the left side ; but it would appear from their observations, that the cases in which such de- ficiency occurs, are exceedingly few. It is about at welfth of an inch broad, but generally a little broader at its anterior than its posterior extremity. It varies a good deal in its height, being sometimes nearly a twelfth of an inch high, • Prochask a seems entitled lo the merit of having first taken notice of these ridges j although he has described and represented them but very imperfcetly. Oper. Min. Pars. I. p. 391. The Wenzels have left nothing to investigate with respect to them; and they have accompanied their copious description with several good engravings^ De Penitior. Struct. &c. p. 183. It is only to be regretted, that none of these engravings represent the ridges throughout the whole of their course.