240 SKIN IN GENERAL. it becomes whiter and more opaque; and if removed, will be found to have lost a great deal more of its elasticity, than it would have done, in the same time, in Cold Water. With respect to its Chemical Properties, it may be ob- served, 1, That when thrown into the Fire, it burns exactly like a piece of Horn or Feather, and emits a similar smell. 2. After long boiling in Water, it yields to the Water, only a small quantity of Gelatine. The undissolved substance, scarcely differs from the original Cuticle, either in bulk or appearance. 3. The Pure Fixed Alkalies dissolve it com- pletely ; forming with it a substance of a soapy consistence. Perhaps, it is, in some degree, owing to a partial solution of this kind, as Dr. Murray* has remarked, as well as to the small quantity of Oily Matter which generally besmears the Skin, that when we rub a little of an Alkaline Ley be- tween the Fingers, we experience so strong a soapy feel. 4. When plunged into Pure Nitric Acid, it instantly ac- quires a yellow colour-f*; in the course of twenty minutes, it becomes thicker, softer, and more opaque ; and in twenty- four hours it is reduced to a yellowish pulp. Pure Muria- tic Acid acts upon it much less powerfully, and more slow- ly ; only rendering it softer, and a little thicker at the end of twenty-four hours. Pure Sulphuric Acid immediately gives it a deep-brown colour ; and in twenty-four hours renders it thicker and more elastic; so that it is not unlike a thin slice of Glue, both in colour and consistence. 5. A Saturated Solution of Corrosive Sublimate in Alcohol pro- duces no change upon it whatever. * System of Chemistry. IV. p. 626. ■f Cruikshank mentions it as a remarkable result of his experiments with Nitrous Acid and the Cuticle, that although this Acid gives the Epidermis a yellow colour as soon as it touches it in the Living Body, yet it has no imme- mediate effect of this kind upon it, in its separated state. I am pretty sure, however, that this must have been owing, to his having employed pieces of Cu- ticle in his Experiments, much more moist than this substance generally is.