196 THE NERVES IN GENERAL. from the opacity of the parts through which it passes ; and after all, it may not, strictly speaking, cease, in the part, but be continued into some other Nerve equally delicate with itself. From these remarks, it will be seen, that the application of the terms Origin and Termination to Nerves, is in some cases fixed, in others optional. The Origin of all the Pri- mary Nerves is fixed, and of course their Termination also. The Origin of a Nerve which is joined to another Nerve, is sometimes fixed, sometimes optional. The Origin of a Nerve connected by both extremities to a Plexus or a Ganglion, or by one extremity to a Ganglion and by the other to a Plexus, is always optional; either end may be regarded as the Com- mencement or the Termination. A Nerve, of which one ex- tremity does not seem connected with any other part of the Nervous System, has its Origin determined by this circum- stance ; for this unconnected extremity is always denomi- nated the Termination*. The Primary Nerves, we have seen, arise immediately from the Brain or Spinal Cord ; and they communicate by means of ramification, reunion, Plexus, or Ganglion, more or less intimately, with all the other Nerves of the Body. All the Nerves, therefore, are connected, either directly or indirectly, with the Central Mass. Nerves are composed of Filaments of Nervous Matter, in- closed in sheaths of a peculiar substance, hence called Neu- rilema. The structure and arrangement of these, have been admirably described by Reil-}\ I have repeated most of * Reil was, I believe, the first who proposed to apply the terms Central and Peripheral to the extremities of Nerves, instead of Origin and Termina- tion. (Exercit. Anat. Fascie. Prim. 12.) But it has not yet been found practi- cable, in many instances, to ascertain which is the Central Extremity of a Nerve ; and, on the other hand, there are many Nerves, which can hardly be said to have any Peripheral Extremity at all. •f- Exercit. Anatom. Fascic. Prim.