MEMBRANES OP THE BRAIN. 151 as it proceeds backwards, until it ceases altogether, and the sides of the Fissure are entirely separated from each other, by a process of the Dura Mater afterwards to be described. The Anterior and Middle Lobes of each Hemisphere, are joined together by Pia Mater, along the whole extent of the Fissure of Sylvius. The Pia Materwhich covers theCorpusCallosum on all its aspects, is the same with that which joins the opposite Hemi- spheres together along the Longitudinal Fissure, and which lines the Convolution resting on the lateral parts of this body. The parts situated between the Lobes of the two He- mispheres, in the basis of the Brain behind, are covered with Pia Mater which is continued from these Lobes. Here the Membrane is particularly dense and strong, having its outer layer composed of pretty large Arterial branches; and along the whole of that hollow which is formed by the Peduncles of the Brain Proper, the Tractus Optici, and the Inner Lobules of the Middle Lobes, it is connected very loosely to the Arachnoid Membrane. A portion of the Pia Mater is prolonged into the Central Fissure of the Brain Proper, and is so attached to different parts of its surface, as to divide the cavity into different com- partments, which have been called Ventricles. It consists of two parts, the C/ioroul Membrane* and the Choroid Plexus, The former is the portion of it which is immediately con- tinuous with the external Pia Mater, and adheres closely to the sides of the Central Fissure ; the latter is its free border which, like a vascular fringe, projects into the cavi- ty of the Fissure. The Choroid Membrane may be traced entering the Fissure along the whole of its opening described at p. 95. One portion of it extends into the Middle Part of the Fissure, and another into the Anterior Lateral Part. The portion which is prolonged into the Middle Part, corresponds ex- • Synonyms, bit. Velum sive Plexus Chorcrideis Iuterpositus; Rete Choroi- deum ; Tela Clioro'idea ; Rete Mirabile ; Expansio Reticularis.