1 NERVOUS MATTER OF PARTICULAR PARTS. 129 with a few general observations merely on this department of the structure of the Brain; aiming at nothing more, than to afford a little assistance to those, who may be disposed to study the subject by dissection for themselves*. All the convolutions of the Brain Proper, are formed of a stratum of Orange-White Matter, covered with a coating, from an eighth to a tenth of an inch thick, of Wood-Brown Matter. The Corpus Callosum consists chiefly of Orange-White Matter, with a slight intermixture of Greyish-Brown. This latter is distributed in exceedingly fine layers, which run across the Corpus Callosum, at right angles to the Median Line, and are most distinct towards the forepart. The Fornix consists entirely of Orange-White Matter. Each of its Anterior Pillars is continued into a Cord of Orange-White Matter, similar in shape to the Pillar itself, which runs in a curved direction downwards and backwards, the concavity of the curve looking upwards, and terminates in the Mammillary Eminence of the corresponding side. Each cord is surrounded by Greyish-Brown Matter, which penetrating into its substance, divides it at many parts, into fine threads. * Vicqd’Azyr has endeavoured, in the folio work to which I have already so often referred, to represent the whole Anatomy of the Brain in a series of ' coloured engravings; and this is the only attempt of the kind, worthy of notice, which has hitherto been made. The chief merit, however, of this work, con- sists in the minute explanations and details, which accompany the engravings. The engravings themselves, are seldom entitled to the praise of accuracy, either in point of form or colouring. A work was published a few years ago by Gall and Spurzheim, entitled Anatomie et Physiologie du Systeme Nerveux en General et du Cerveau en Pai- ticulier, in which they endeavoured, in a series of plain engravings, to repre- sent the surfaces and internal arrangement of the Substance of the Brain. They have omitted, however, several important parts altogether; others are’ represented very indistinctly; and there is scarcely a plate in the series, in which there are not considerable inaccuracies. VOL. I. K