110 SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. a little downwards; and which exhibits iMmina, running, some from behind forwards, and others from below up- wards. When the parts just described are cut away, so as to bring into view the anterior side of the Semilunar Fossa, we observe, in the first place, on the Median Line, a slightly concave surface, extending down from the lower extremity of the Longitudinal Furrow between the Corpora Bigemina of the Brain Proper, to the root of the Superior Vermiform Process. This is the posterior surface of what has been denominated the Vieussenian Valve*. Its concavity cor- responds exactly to the convexity of the Vermiform Process to which it is closely applied, and of which it follows the direction. It consists of two parts. The upper portion is about a fifth of an inch high, and a sixth wide ; white and smooth ; attached by its upper margin, to the Frenulum in the middle, and to the lower border of the Inferior Corpus Bigeminum on each side; and continuous laterally with the Pillars of the Vieussenian Valve. The lower portion, which extends from the upper to the root of the Vermiform Pro- cess, and which is also continuous with the Pillars of the Valve laterally, is from a third to half an inch in height; and as it gradually widens as it proceeds downwards, it is about a third of an inch wide at its base. Its surface pre- sents a very singular appearance. It is divided into four horizontal bands, of a brownish colour, and varying in breadth from a twelfth to an eighth of an inch. The furrows between these, are not wider than a hair; and as they do not extend entirely across the surface, the bands are united along their extremities. The upper band is a little rounded; and the lower ones increase successively in length, in pro- portion as the surface across which they are placed widens ; so that the outline of the whole appearance is pai’abolic. V a- • Synonyms. Lat. Velum Interjectum. Fr. Valvule de l’Aqueduc de Sylvius ; La Lame Medullaire Moyenne du Cervelet.