MEMBRANES OP THE SPINAL CbltD. 190 projections or Teeth, each of which is attached firmly to the Dura Mater of the Spinal Canal, the spaces between the Teeth being free. When extended, the distance betwixt its Inner margin and the extremity of one of the Teeth, nowhere exceeds a quarter of an inch ; but its breadth is different at different parts. Its anterior and posterior surfaces are smooth and unconnected with any other part. In its internal structure, it most resembles the substance called Tendon. The Teeth, in particular, have a good deal of that shining appearance which distinguishes the Tendinous Texture. Towards its inner border too, fine, white, filaments are very apparent in it, placed parallel to each other. This border is attached to the Pia Mater by a fine texture, which when extended, resembles delicate Cellular Substance. This Membrane begins at the top of the Cervical Por- tion of the Cord, and ends, in general, just where the swell- ing commences in the lower part-of the Dorsal Portion. The number of Teeth is generally twenty; sometimes only eight- een or nineteen, at other times twenty-two or twenty-three. It rather increases in breadth as it proceeds downwards, and the distance also between the Teeth, becomes greater. The distance, for example, between the second anu third Teeth is only about half an inch ; between the nineteenth and twen- tieth, fully more than an inch. After the Membrane has terminated, a very slight ridge may be seen running down the surface of the Pia Mater, exactly in its direction, for ~ m.. * about an inch and a half. I have never seen this ridge how- ever, reach the extremity of the Cord. The Arachnoid Membrane of the Spinal Cord is precisely similar in its appearance to the Arachnoid Membrane of the Brain. Continued down from the Annular Protuberance, and inwards from the Spinal Lobules, of the Cerebellum, it covers the anterior surface of the Top of the- Cord ; but is so loosely connected to the Pia Mater, that it may be raised'