169 BRAIN OP THE FEMALE. across which it is laid rather loosely ; and is perforated, towards the inside, by the Facial, Auditory, Glossopiha- ryngeal, Gastropulraonary, and Accessory Nerves. It is still more loosely attached to the outer and lower part of the Spinal Lobule, than to any other part of the Brain. From these Lobules, it is continued across to the top of the Spi- nal Cord, where it is afterwards to be described ; conse- quently, it does not line any part of the Spinal Fossa, nor the anterior part of the Median Fossa of the Cerebellum. Such is the Anatomy of the Brain in the Adult Male ; and so far as has yet been ascertained, it seems to be precise- ly the same in the Adult Female. Slight differences in the size, and shape, of this organ, have been asserted by some, to be perceptible in the two sexes; but these have not been satisfactorily established. Almost all that is at present known respecting the Ana- tomy of the Brain, before and after Maturity, has been as- certained by the ingenuity and industry of the Wenzels. Anatomical writings, previously to the appearance of their work*, contained little relative to this subject, that could be relied on. Their observations on the dimensions of the Brain at dif ferent periods of Life, are particulary interesting. They • De Penitior. Struct. &c. This is the best and most original book ou the Structure of the Brain, that has appeared for more than a century. The au- thors seem to have laboured unremittingly at the subject, for upwards of twelve years, and to have enjoyed the most ample opportunities for observation, dur- ing the whole of that period. On comparing many of their descriptions with nature, I have found them so exact, that I am!disposed to place the utmost reliance on the accuracy of their remarks in general. I regret exceedingly, that many of the preceding pages were printed, before I had become aware of the valuable matter which their volume contains. I should gladly have availed myself of their observations on the Pineal Gland, the Pituitary Gland, the Sinus of the Septum Lueidum, and the Choroid Plexus.