242 SKIN IN GENERAL. Species, it was said to correspond, exactly, with their parti- cular hue. In the Negro, Caffre, and Malay, I have satisfied my- self by many dissections, that there is a Black Membrane in- terposed between the Epidermis and the True Skin, upon which the dark colour of these people entirely depends; and hence I have no doubt, that the colour of Black Men in general, is owing to a similar substance. This Mem- brane sometimes peels off with the Cuticle, and sometimes adheres to the True Skin. It is more tender than the Cu- ticle, and thinner; but like it, perfectly inorganized, and without any appearance of holes, or plates, or fibres*. But, after the strictest examination, I have not been able to find any light-coloured Rete Mucosum, corresponding to this black one, in the inhabitants of Great Britain, nor in those of other nations, resembling them in colour. I have tried all the means usually said to be necessary for discovering it, and many others besides, but always without success: I am, therefore, disposed to deny the existence of any such Mem- brane in White Persons. The greater number of Anato- mical writers seem to have copied the description of it, one from another; and I have little doubt, that those who con- ceived they had actually seen it, had seen only the Cuticle, from which they had previously peeled off some superficial layers. The colour of the Skin in White People depends, partly on the Cuticle, but chiefly on the True Skin, as al- ready remarked, (p. 236.) Whether this be the case, also, in the Tawny Varieties of the Human Species, or whether they * Meckel’s description of this Membrane is the most minute, and the most accurate, I have met with. (Hist, de l’Acad Roy. de Berlin 1753.) This author takes notice of a fact, which I have had many opportunities of observing; viz. that the Cicatrices of wounds, and the marks of the small Pox, or of Ulcers of any kind in Black People, so far from remaining white, as many have asserted, uniformly become blacker than the other parts of the Skin.