MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 160 Hemisphere. 4. The Sylvian Artery*, which is the other Vessel into which the Internal Carotid divides at its termi- nation, and is a little larger than the former. Immediately after its origin, it inclines directly outwards, and entering the inner and anterior extremity of the Fissure of Sylvius, it runs along the whole of this Fissure, and terminates on the outer surface of the Posterior Lobe. During this course, it sends off branches, to the Pia Mater covering the oblong sur- face behind the origin of the Olfactory Nerve just alluded to; to the surface behind, of the Anterior Lobe; to the surfaces chiefly before, of the Middle Lobe ; and some of its superior ramifications anastomose with branches of the Anterior Artery towards the Longitudinal Fissure. The Basilar Artery is formed by the union of two other Ar- teries called Vertebral, a species of anastomosis which is very rare in the Arterial System. The Artery begins generally about the lower margin of the Annular Protuberance, and running along the middle of the anterior surface of this pro- minence, in the depression described p. 112. under the name of the Basilar Furrow, terminates about its upper border. It is about an eighth of an inch in diameter generally; and, besides innumerable capillary branches to the Pia Mater covering the anterior surface of the Protuberance, it sends off during its progress the following Vessels of greater size. 1. The two Small Inferior Cerebellar Arteriesf, one to each side. These seldom arise exactly opposite to each other, but one generally comes off, close to the origin of the trunk, and the other about a quarter of an inch higher up. They rarely exceed the thirtieth or twenty-fifth part of an inch in diameter. Each of them extends at first directly out- wards, and then inclining a little downwards, reaches the low- er border of the Peduncular Fossa, and runs along this, to- « Synonyms. The Middle Cerebral Artery ; The External Branch of the Internal Carotid. -j- Synonym. Lat. Ramus Cerebelli Inferior Alius.