IfAIR IN GENERAL. 246 Like tlie Epidermis, the Hairs seem to be quite destitute of Bloodvessels, Absorbents, and Nerves. In the disease called Plica Polonica, it was at one time supposed, that they acquired such a degree of Vascularity, as to bleed when divided. But this is now ascertained to be a mistake*. The Chemical Properties of Human Hair, as far as they have yet been ascertained, are the following. 1. Mr. Hat- chett found-f-, that when Hair was long boiled, under the ordinary pressure of the Atmosphere, in Distilled Water, it imparted to the Water, only a small quantity of Gelatine. The substance which remained, possessed all the properties of Coagulated Albumen. When dried in the air, it was found to have lost much of the original flexibility and elas- ticity of Hair ; so that it was very easily broken. He was induced to believe, also, from a variety of experiments, that the Hair which loses its curl in moist weather, and which is the softest and most flexible, is that which most readily yields Gelatin on boiling ; while that which is very strong and elsatic, affords it with greatest difficulty and in the small- est proportion. This opinion was corroborated by the ex- perience of a considerable Hair merchant in London. 2. VAuauEi.iNj found, that Hair might be completely dissolved in Water, boiled in Papin’s Digester. In this operation, when the Heat was carried beyond a certain point, the Hair was wholly or partly decomposed ; as was shewn by the Ammonia, Carbonic Acid, and Empyreumatic Oil which were found in the solution. During the solution, also, under whatever degree of Heat, a large quantity of Sulphur- • I am quite aware of the minute description of the Structure of Hair which has been given by Bichat. Anat. Gener. IV. p. 807. But in this instance, as well as in several others, it appears to me that Bichat has written more from fancy than observation. •f- Phil. Transac. 1800. + Arm ales de Chimie. tom. 58. p. 41. There is an excellent abstract of Vak* ciuelin’s Memoir, in Nicholson’s Journal, Vol. XV. p. 141.