rtftfEB SURFACE OF THE RIGHT AURICLE. 31 face of which exhibits a net-work, like that on the forepart of the Auricle, but, composed of smaller cords, and more irregular. On the lower surface of the Auricle, we remark, in the first place, towards the back-part, the opening of the Infe- rior Cava. Immediately to the left of this, is a thin, whit- ish, crescentic fold, denominated the Eustachian Valve. The posterior horn of this Valve is connected with the left edge of the Oval Fossa, and the anterior, with the right sur- face of the Auricle, directly above the opening of the Low- er Cava; so that it runs from behind obliquely forwards and to the right. Its free, curved, edge, looks upwards and a little backwards; and one surface of it is continuous with the left and anterior side of the Inferior Cava, while the other is turned towards the left and fore part of the Au- ricle. Were it prolonged straight upwards, it would run into the upper margin of the Oval Fossa; and even, as it is, when we look into the Auricle from before, it cuts off from our View, the lower half of this Fossa. The breadth and thickness of this Valve, vary extremely. Sometimes it is nearly half an inch broad, at other times scarcely percepti- ble; in some, it is as thick as a wafer at its attachment, but tapering towards its edge, and without any holes in it; in others, it is as thin as silk paper, transparent, and quite re- ticulated. Immediately to the left of the posterior exti’emity of the Eustachian Valve, is the orifice of the Coronary Vein, look- ing forwards and to the left. Its margin, also, below and to the right, is provided with a Valve; the posterior horn of which, usually runs into the corresponding horn of the Eustachian Valve, while the free, crescentic edge, looks up- wards and to the left. Like the Eustachian Valve, how- ever, it varies very much in its dimensions. Sometimes, in place of it, there is merely a slight ridge; at other times, it is so broad, as to cover almost entirely the orifice of the