90 .SUBSTANCE or THE BRAIN- side* of the Triangular Furrow formerly described in tins region. It is to this surfaee of the Peduncle, about a twentieth of an inch from the bottom of the Furrow, ami the same distance from the Annular Protuberance of the Cerebellum, that the Third Cranial or Oculo-motor Nerve is attached. The Peduncle is bounded above and before, the Mamillary Eminence and Infundibulum ; above and with- out, by the Traclus Opticus ; behind and above, by the Inner Corpus Geniculatum ; and behind and below, by a smooth, triangular, white, surfaee. By its lower extremity it is joined to the Cerebellum, as will be afterwards more particularly des- cribed. When the parts are in their natural situation, the anterior, flat, surface of the Peduncle, and a very small por- tion towards its lower extremity all round, are alone visible; the rest is entirely concealed by the inner and posterior sur- face of the Inner Lobule of the Middle Lobe. The whole of it, however, may be easily exposed by pushing the Middle Lobe outwards, and a little upwards. When the Brain proper is viewed from before; we ob- serve, in the first place, on the Median Line, the Longitudi- nal Fissure, passing down from the upper to the lower sur- face, and separating the Anterior Lobes of the two Hemi- spheres from each other. At the bottom of this Fissure, the anterior extremity of the Corpus Callosum is brought into view, either by separating the Hemispheres gently, or by removing the Anterior Lobes altogether. It is convex, and measures about three eighths of an inch in height or thick- ness ; and its surface presents the same appearance as above. On each side of the Median Line, we remark the convex, obtuse, extremities, of the Anterior Lobes. Here the con- volutions are narrower than at any other part of the Brain Proper, but they are less flattened than on the Base, and the Fossa between them are not so shallow. On the posterior aspect of the Brain Proper, we observe, in the first place, on the Median Line, the Longitudinal