LOWER SURFACE OF THE BRAIN PROPER. 89 the Infundibulum. It is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, and of a white colour. On the inside, its flat surface is closely in contact with the corresponding surface of its fellow on the opposite Hemisphere. Towards the outer and fore-part, it is about a sixth of an inch distant from the Tractus Opticus, and behind, it is almost in contact with the Peduncle of the Brain Proper. The whole of it may be seen, without either displacement or dissection of the surrounding parts. Behind the Mammillary Eminence, a broad ridge is seen extending from above, downwards, inwards, and a little backwards, and terminating in the plane which divides the Brain Proper from the Cerebellum. This is what is called the Peduncle of the Brain Proper*. That part of its sur- face which looks towards the Median Line, before, is almost quite flat: The rest is convex, and most so above. Mea- sured along the middle of its outer and anterior surface, it is rather more than half an inch in height; but towards the anterior and posterior margins, it is only about a third of an inch. It is wider above than below ; the transverse diame- ter, in the middle, being three quarters of an inch. The convex part of its surface is, in general, slightly grooved, in a direction from above, downwards and a little forwards; the depth, however, and the number of the furrows vary exceedingly in different subjects ; in some they are scarcely perceptible. Various transverse ridges are often found cross- ing these grooves at right angles, strongest and most nume- rous towards the lower and back part. The whole of the surface of the Peduncle is white. On the fore-part, along the Median Line, its flat surface is continuous with the cor- responding surface of the Peduncle of the opposite Hemi- sphere ; and these two surfaces together, form the sloping •Synonyms. Lai. Pedunculus Cerebri; Crus Cerebri; Crus Cerebri Anterius; Processus Medull* Cerebri. i'r. Jambe du Cerveau ; Prolonge- ment Anterieur ou Cerebral de la Protuberance Cerebral.