86 SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. Inner Lobule. The inner and posterior surface of the Inner Lobule itself, howe i r, is constantly formed by a Small Convolution about three quarters of an inch in length, which lies above and on the inside of the anterior extremity of the former; having its. lower surface separated from it, by a fissure which is continuous with one under the Taenia Hippocampi, afterwards to be described*. The Middle Lobe lies under the posterior part of the Anterior, below the level of which it projects, nearly three quarters of an inch. Between the two, there is a deep Fis- sure, called the Fissure of Sylvius, which varies in its length in different subjects, and even in the opposite Hemispheres of the same Brain. It is seldom wider however, than the Fossae between the Convolutions ; and, therefore, the surfaces of the two Lobes, are closely in contact along the whole of its extent, except towards the fore-part, where they are nearly a quarter of an inch asunder. The boundaries between the Middle and Posterior Lobes are not very well marked; they pass insensibly into each other. Let us suppose, however, a line drawn across the lower surface of the Brain Proper, immediately behind the posterior extremity of the Corpus Callosum, and at right angles to the Median Line; the portion of the surface behind this line, may be called the Posterior Lobe. The lower surface of this Lobe is slightly concave, and looks a little inwards. Very often its posterior extremity is notched instead of being pointed, as it generally is. The posterior extremity of the Fossa between those two parallel Convolutions already described as forming a Ridge * Vicq d’Azyr (Traite, &c. p. 46.) calls the former of these Convolutions <• La Circoiivolution du Grand Hypocampe,” and the latter, which he considers as a part of the former, “ JLc Crochet de cette Circonrelution.” The repre- sentation, however, which he has given, in Plate XVI, of the origin of the first of these, is far from being correct; nor can I agree with him, that there is such uniformity as he describes, in the form and direction of those Convolu tions which are situated external to this one.