VERVOUS MATTER OF PARTICULAR PARTS. 149 quarter of an inch in length-, and having a gentle inclination backwards. Immediately behind this, are seen two thin Strata about a third of an inch in length each, which divide only into Ternary 'Strata; and to these succeeds the last Primary Stratum on this surface, which is more than an eiffhth of an inch thick, is inclined backwards and a little upwards, and divides immediately after its origin into Ter- nary and Secondary Strata. Besides these, there are also one or Two Ternary Strata . seen arising from this surface. The Primary Strata which are seen arising from the in- ferior surface of the Central Mass, in this section, are in ge- neral five in number. The most anterior one is very slender, about a sixth of an inch in length, and inclined downwards and a little forwards in a curved direction, with the concavity backwards, and giving off only two or three Ternary Strata from its posterior surface. It is this Stratum which forms the anterior and superior surface of the Sub-peduncular Lo- bules, supplies the Laminae of these Lobules, and is con- nected to the Wings of the Inferior Vermiform Process in- ternally. The Stratum immediately behind this, is a little thicker, about a quarter of an inch in length, inclined down- wards and a little forwards, and divides into Ternary Strata. To this succeeds a Stratum about a tenth of an inch thick, which after projecting downwards directly, for about an eighth of an inch, and giving off one or two Ternary Strata on each side, divides into two Secondary Strata, one of which inclines forwards a good deal, and the other a very little backwards. Behind this, a Stratum always thinner, sometimes longer, sometimes shorter arises, which inclines downwards and backwards, and divides into two Secondary Strata, both of which have an inclination backwards, but the anterior one less than the posterior. Lastly, to this succeeds a Stratum about an eighth of an inch thick, which projects backwards and a very little downwards for about a