CENTRAL FISSURE OF THE BRAIN PROPER. 101 measures about five eighths of an inch. All these di- mensions, however, are subject to variety, and, as far as my observations have hitherto gone, they bear no fixed proportion to the dimensions of the Corpus Striatum*. The apex is a little rounded ; as also the inner and posterior angle, which is formed by the Posterior Tubercle. This surface of the Thalamus is convex both from before backwards, and from side to side. Towards the apex there is a small space which is more prominent than the rest, and which is called the Anterior Tubercle. A narrow ridge runs along the inner border, beginning at the apex, and enlarging a little as it proceeds backwards, which is at last continued into the upper white lamina at- tached to the base of the Pineal Gland. This ridge is called the Peduncle of the Pineal Gland. The upper surface of the Thalamus is of a white colour, and in general quite smooth; but sometimes a rough line is seen on it, extending, diagonally, from the apex, over the top of the Anterior Tubercle, to the outer and posterior corner. This is occasioned by the attachment of a Vascular Membrane, afterwards to be described. A ridge runs along the bottom of the Furrow between the Corpus Striatum, and the upper surface of the Thalamus Opticus, which is called Tania Semicircular is t. It begins at the Anterior Pillar of the Fornix, where it is more than an eighth of an inch in breadth, and tapers as it proceeds backwards Sometimes, it seems to terminate at the pos- terior extremity of the Corpus Striatum; but in general, it is continued down into the Anterior Lateral Part of the Central Fissure, where we shall afterwards take notice of it. Its surface is smooth. Towards the forepart, it is of a greyish colour, like the Corpus Striatum, with, sometimes, an • This was the result, also, of many measurements made by Vic« d’Azyk, Traite d’Anatomie, &c. p. 36. Synonyms. Lat. Geminum Centrum Semicirculare, Stria Cornea. Fr. Bandelette Striee, 3