SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. 88 natural position, only the anterior third of it is seen ; the rest being concealed by the Inner Lobule of the Middle Lobe. To bring it wholly into view, this Lobule must be cut away. The Tractus Opticus* is a cord-like ridge, extending from the posterior corner of the Commissure already described, at first, backwards, outwards, and a very little upwards, and then, in the form of a curve, backwards, and inwards. The anterior part is more rounded than the posterior, and is attached to the parts above, only by about a third of its surface. As it proceeds backwards, however, it becomes gradually flatter and less prominent, and is at last merely a superficial band. Its whole length is about an inch and a quarter. It is about a sixth of an inch in diameter before, but towards its posterior extremity, swells out gradually to about a quarter of an inch. Its colour is white. On the fore-part, it is attached to the Infundibulum, and behind, to the Peduncle of the Brain Proper; and its posterior ex- tremity is continuous externally, with the Outer Corpus Geniculatum, and, internally, is separated, by a slight groove, from the inner prominence of the same name. In the natural situation of parts, only about a quarter of an inch of its anterior extremity is seen ; the whole of the rest of it being concealed by the Inner Lobule of the Middle Lobe, which is placed immediately under it, and which must either be cut away or pulled outwards, to bring it fully into view. Continuous with the base of the Infundibulum, and close to the Median Line, there is a little projection called the Mammillary Eminence +. Its inferior surface is smooth, circular, and convex, and looks a very little backwards. Its inner surface is, in general, flat, and its outer margin projects but very little beyond the level of the base of • Synonym. Described by many, as a part of the Optic Nerve. -f- Synonyms. Lat. Corpus Albicans, Tuber C-andicans, Einineotia Can- dicans. Ft. Tubercule Mamillaire.