SKIN IN GENERAL. 234 In peeling ofT the Cuticle, however, the Hairs are in gene- ral extracted along with it, from their canals in the True Skin. Consequently, when the outer surface of the True Skin is examined with a microscope, a number of little holes are seen in it, which were not perceptible on the whole Skin. The intimate structure of the True Skin is quite pecu- liar. It seems chiefly made up of a species of very small, but dense, whitish fibres, which are interwoven with each other closely, and in every direction; but which are more firmly compacted together, the nearer they are to the outer surface. These fibres appear to me to resemble those which compose the External Coat of an Artery, more than any other Texture. By maceration in cold water, they are ren- dered easily separable from each other. Bloodvessels enter largely into the composition of the True Skin. They admit of being injected with the utmost facility, and to the greatest degree of minuteness. The outer surface is always much more vascular than the in- ner; and it is to the Blood circulating in these Vessels, that this surface entirely owes its red colour in the Living Body. After having injected the True Skin with Size and Vermi- lion, so minutely, that its outer surface had acquired a bright red colour, and many fine ramifications could be traced upon it, with a magnifying glass, I have repeatedly endeavoured, to remove the redness and vascularity, by scraping the sur- face, firmly, with the edge of a fine scalpel; but always with- out success. The Vessels seem to be completely incorpo-* rated with the substance of the Texture. The Absorbent Vessels of the True Skin are so large and so numerous, that after a successful injection of them with Mercury, the whole outer surface looks, at a little distance, like a sheet of silver. They are very easily injected. Their distribution, resembles network more than regular ramifica- tion. There is no appearance of distinct origin any where among them; and I have never seen the smallest particle