132 SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. dually tapering to a point. The outer stratum of the Emi- nences is continued behind, into the White Matter of the Peduncles of the Brain Proper. 1 he composition of the Pituitary Gland is peculiar, and requires to be farther investigated. It is a good deal firmer than the other parts of the Brain, and seems to be intersect- ed by a texture different from common Nervous Matter. When it is pressed between the fingers, the Nervous Matter appears as if it were forced out of a spunge. In general, two distinct masses may be perceived in it; one occupying the forepart, approaching rather to purple in its colour, and another behind, softer in its consistence and of a lighter hue. The Peduncles of the Brain Proper, are composed of Orange-White Matter, with a very slight intermixture of Greyish-Brown. This White Matter seems arrranged into very fine laminae and threads, which run upwards and a little outwards, gently curved towards the Median Plane. The Peduncles are continuous in each Hemisphere, with a stratum of Orange-White Matter, from a fourth to a fifth of an inch in thickness, which runs upwards and outwards external to the Thalamus Opticus, forming a gentle curve towards the Median Line; and then expands into an arch or vault, which penetrates through the middle of the Corpus Striatum from one end of it to the other, and at last joins the Central White Mass of the Convolutions, along the whole border of the Corpus Callosum. The concavity of this vault looks downwards and outwards, and as it follows the inclination of the Corpus Striatum, it is also arched from be- fore backwards. Its two anterior thirds nearly, are formed in- to large cords, by the interposition of strata of Greyish-Brown Matter, and all the cords extend outwards in the general direction of the vault. A number of fine threads too, of White Matter, may be seen, shooting from a variety of points on the superior surface of these cords, into the Grey- ish-Brown substance of the Corpus Striatum, and there gra-