PIA MATEIt ITS AUTEUIAL TRUNKS. 159 incating Branch, which arises from the Vessel immediately on the outside of the Commissure of the Tractus Optici, and running directly backwards, terminates in the Posterior Ar- tery of the Brain Proper. It sends off only very minute branches during its progress, and seldom exceeds a twelfth of an inch in diameter. 2. Two or three Capillary Branches to the Tractus Opticus and the lower extremity of the Cho- roid Plexus. 3. The Anterior Artery of the Brain Proper *, which is one of the Vessels into which the Internal Carotid divides when it terminates. It is about a tenth of an inch in diameter generally, and immediately after its origin in- clines upwards and inwards in the form of a curve, anterior to the Commissure of the Tractus Opticus, and above the commencement of the Optic Nerve. It then penetrates into the Longitudinal Fissure between the Anterior Lobes, and ascending gradually, reaches the anterior Extremity of the Corpus Callosum, round which it turns, and then runs along, immediately above the superior surface of this body, until it terminates towards its posterior extremity. In its progress, it gives off branches to the Commissure of the Tractus Opti- ci, to the Origin of the Optic Nerve, to the root of the Ol- factory Nerve, and the oblong surface described p. 87. imme- diately behind this ; it then sends off a branch called Commu- nicating, about a sixth of an inch in length and a twelfth in diameter, which crosses the Longitudinal Fissure at right angles, and runs into the corresponding Artery of the oppo- site Hemisphere ; and throughout the rest of its course, it sends ramifications of various .sizes, in every direction, to the internal and inferior surfaces of the Anterior Lobe, to the two anterior thirds of the sides of the Longitudinal Fissure above the Corpus Callosum, and some twigs even emerge from this Fissure above, and anastomose with branches of the Sylvian Artery on the upper surface of the Synonym. Lut. Arteria Callosa.