168 MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. Hemispheres remain separated by the Dura Mater, and un- connected by Pia Mater ; and then it passes across from the one Hemisphere to the other, being perforated immediately below the posterior extremity of the Corpus Callosum by the Galenian Veins. It has a similar distribution on the Con- volutions of the basis of the Brain Proper. It does not line the furrow in which the Olfactory Nerve lies, but passes over that Nerve, as will afterwards be more particularly men- tioned. It stretches across the Fissure of Sylvius, where that Fissure ceases to have its sides united by Pia Mater. In the hollow formed by the Anterior Lobes before, just where the Olfactory Nerves arise, by the Middle Lobes on each side, and by the Peduncles of the Brain Proper and An- nular Protuberance of the Cerebellum behind, it is separated to a considerable distance from the Pia Mater; and is perfor- ated, on each side, by the Optic and Oculo-Motor Nerves, and the Internal Carotid Artery, and in the middle, by the ex- tremity of the Infundibulum. It is continued down from the inner and posterior border of the Middle Lobes of the Brain Proper, and the posterior extremity of the Corpus Callosum, to the upper surface of the Cerebellum. It is spread over the Lamina? on this surface, just as it is over the Convolu- tions of the Brain Proper, and is equally closely connected to the Pia Mater. On the anterior surface of the Annular Protuberance, it is but loosely attached to the Pia Mater, so that here, it may be raised up from that Membrane, to a considerable extent, merely by inflation with the blow- pipe ; or it may be dissected off almost entire, by cutting carefully across those filamentous productions which stretch between them. It is perforated, at the junction of the Pe- duncles of the Brain Proper with the Protuberance, by the Pathetic Nerves; at the lateral parts of the Protuberance, by the Trigeminal Nerves; and towards its lower and middle part, by the Oculo-Abductor Nerves. From the Protube- rance, it is continued over the Peduncular Fossa laterally.