OUTER SURFACE—MEMBRANIFORM PROCESSES. 181 at other times just perceptible and no more. The Wenzels examined the Brains of fifty persons, from the age of twenty to one hundred and seven, and they found the Brown Ridges well marked in thirty nine of these ; in the remaining eleven, they were smaller and of course less distinct. The Ridges are generally connected, by their posterior extremities, with the outer ends of some of the White Ridges in the Trian- gular Fossa. I have often seen them approaching to Yel- lowish-White or even Orange-White in their colour, but seldom or never of a darker shade than Greyish-Brown. There are two slender Membraniform Processes, which pro- ject from the Peduncles of the Cord, which do not seem hitherto to have been described. In point of appearance and delicacy, they are precisely like the Wings of the Infe- rior Vermiform Process of the Cerebellum. The Posterior one projects from the edge of the Triangular Fossa in- wards ; and lines, and is supported by, that prolongation of the PiaMater, which is stretched across the Fossabehind and converts it into a shut cavity. It is attached to the edge of the Fossa a little above its apex, and is about a quarter of an inch broad at its base. It seldom extends more than an eighth of an inch inwards; but it is so apt to be torn even in the most careful dissections, that I am not yet satisfied as to its real dimensions, The Anterior one is attached to the forepart of the Peduncle, near its margin, and below the Brown Ridge. It projects outwards and forwards; con- nected behind to the lower part of that Plexus-looking por- tion of the Pia Mater, which covers the Subpeduncular Lo- bules of the Cerebellum; and covered before, by the roots of the Glossopharyngeal and Gastropulmonary Nerves. It is about a quarter of an inch in length, and a sixth in breadth, but varies in its thickness a good deal more than the Posterior Process. I have repeatedly seen it nearly a twelfth of an inch thick towards its outer margin; so that 3 I