189 ITS SERRATED MEMBRANE. Fissure, until it reaches the Cervical Portion of the Cord ; and then it usually unites with the corresponding Artery ot the opposite side. The single Artery thus formed, which, is a little larger than either of the branches forming it, runs down along the line of the Median Fissure to the end of the Cord, giving off little twigs in every direction in its way. The second set of branches supplied by the Vertebral Arteries, are very small Twigs, which these Arteries send off in their ascent through the Cervical Vertebrae ; a part of their course w'hich falls to be described in another divi- sion of the work. Five or six of these Twigs penetrate the Arachnoid Membrane on each side, along with the Cervical Nerves ; and reaching the Pia Mater of the Cervical Por- tion of the Cord, they are there expended, anastomosing freely with Twigs of the Spinal Arteries. The Branches derived from the Inferior Thyroid, Inter- costal, and Lumbar Arteries, are exactly similar to the set last described of the Vertebrals. They are distributed on the lower part of the Cervical Portion, and the Dorsal Portion of the Cord ; passing from their respective trunks to this distribution, along the Spinal Nerves, through holes in the Spine afterwards to be described. The Veins of the Pia Mater of the Cord, do not seem to form trunks so large even as its Arteries. Most of those be- longing to the Top of the Cord unite at last with Veins of the Cerebellum; those from the other Portions, pass off in ge- neral by the same route by which the lateral Arteries enter. The Serrated Membrane is a narrow, thin, Membrane, placed between the Pia Mater and Arachnoid Membrane on each side of the Cord; running along, exactly in the middle of each half of it, almost from one end to the other. It is whitish and semitransparent in its appearance; and thinner than the Pia Mater, yet fully stronger. Its inner border, which is straight, is intimately connected with the Pia Mater; while its outer one, presents a series of angular