SUBSTANCE OF THE BUAJN. 100 Immediately underneath the junction of the two Anterior Pillars of the Fornix, there is stretched across the anterior part ot the Vertical Prolongation, a smooth, white, rounded ridge, denominated the Anterior Commissure of the Brain. I imagine, that in .the natural situation of parts, this Com- missure is seldom more than a tenth of an inch in length. It is placed anterior to the Pillars of the Fornix, and seems, as it were, to unite them together. These are the appearances to be seen, on the Lower sur- face of the Middle Part of the Central Fissure, and on the Median Line. On each side of the Median Line on this surface, we ob- serve, in the first place, a prominence of a pyriform shape, called Corpus Striatum, of which the large extremity occupies the whole of the Anterior Prolongation of the Middle Part, while the small end, extends along the outer border of this Part, to its posterior corner. Its inner margin forms a slight curve, of which the concavity looks inwards. Measured in the middle, it is about two inches and a half long, and its transverse diameter at the widest part before, is about an inch ; but its dimensions vary. Its surface is quite smooth, and every where of a brownish grey colour. On the inside of the posterior half of the Corpus Striatum, and separated from it by a furrow, which is pretty deep before, but becomes shallow behind, is seen the superior sur- face of the Thalamus Opticus. The outline of this surface approaches to a triangular form ; the apex being turned forwards, and the base backwards. The inner border, which is about an inch and a quarter in length, runs parallel and close to the Median Line, on the forepart; but within a quarter of an inch of its posterior extremity, it inclines a little out- wards. The outer border, which looks towards the Corpus Striatum, extends from before, backwards and outwards, and is about an inch and a half in length. The base in general forms a right angle with the inner side, and