SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. 105 appearance of white lines, running, lengthways, from its an- terior extremity, for about half an inch backwards. To- wards its posterior end, it is altogether white, like the surface of the Thalamus Opticus. Such are the appearances to be observed on the lower surface of ihe Middle Part of the Central Fissure. On the superior surface or roof of this Part, we remark, in the first place, on the Median Line, a surface of the form of a triangle with the angles at the base cut off, projecting downwards a little below the level of the other parts, and having its apex turned forwards. This is denominated the Fornix*. It is concave from behind forwards, and convex from side to side. Its base, which is formed by the lower surface of the posterior extremity of the Corpus Callosum, is smooth and rounded, and measures about an inch and a half. Two white ridges, called the Anterior Pillars of the Fornix, have already been described, in the Vertical Pro- longation of the Middle Part of the Central Fissure. The point where these unite into one, forms the apex of the Fornix, and this is about a quarter of an inch broad. From the Apex to the middle of the base, measures about two inches. The lateral parts of the Fornix are quite detached from the surface above, so that they form a kind of cornice on each side, gradually increasing in depth from the apex towards the base, where they are a quarter of an inch deep. Close to the apex, these borders or cornices are rounded and smooth, but at all other points they present a sharp edge. Their length is about an inch and three quarters. At the Posterior angles they are usually called the Posterior Pillars of the Fornix I and here they are continued, on each side, into the Hippocampus, an appearance to be de- scribed in the Anterior Lateral Part of the Central Fissure. • Synonyms. Fr. Voute a trois piliers; Triangle Med ullaire. -f Synonyms. Iat. Crura Posteriora Fora ids. Fr. Productions Pos- tericures du Triangle Medullaire.