UPPER SURFACE OF THE CEREBELLUM. 109 "which it would be difficult to describe. The remaining part of the Median Line, between the Mons Cerebelli and the posterior margin of the Cerebellum, is occupied by the posterior extremity of the Median Fossa, which varies in its length from three quarters of an inch to an inch, and ill its breadth from a quarter of an inch to a half. On each side of the Median Line, the upper surface of the Cerebellum presents a slightly concave, and regular sur- face ; exhibiting Lamina, of which the general direction, is from the Median Line outwards and forwards in the form of a curve, with the convexity turned outwards and back- wards. The parts of each Hemisphere which are seen, in this view of the Cerebellum, separated by the posterior ex- tremity of the Median Fossa, may be called the Posterior Lobes; and we propose to call the Anterior Lobes, those parts of each Hemisphere which are placed anterior to a line, drawn from the anterior margin of the Mons, to the outer and anterior corner of the Cerebellum. The Semilunar Fossa bounding the Mons Cerebelli be- fore, has its concavity turned directly forwards. It measures directly across from one horn to the other, about an inch and an eighth; and its width is not greater than that of the Fissures between the Convolutions of the Brain Proper. When the parts forming its anterior sides are removed, so as to expose its posterior surface, we find that this sur- face is formed in the middle, by a ridge continuous above with the perpendicular surface of the Mons Cerebelli, and which inclining backwards and downwards, forms a curve, convex downwards and forwards. This ridge is about half an inch long, and a quarter broad; rounded on its surface; and presenting Lamina which lie chiefly in a horizontal position. To it we shall restrict the term Superior Ver- miform Process. The surface of the Semilunar Fossa, on each side of this Process, is formed a sloping face of the Anterior Lobes, which looks inwards, forwards, and