206 THE NERVES IN GENERAL. rounded by Pia Mater, and capable of being rendered fi- brous in the longitudinal direction by coagulation *. For an eighth of an inch beyond this, it consists, in the centre, of a conical portion of undivided White Matter with its apex turned forwards; and externally, of Nervous Filaments, each contained in its little canal of Neurilema formed of Pia Mater. The remaining part of the Nerve, before it perfor- ates the Arachnoid Membrane, is composed entirely of such Filaments -f*. Origins of the Common Oculo-Muscular Nerves. The External Oculo-Muscular Nerve arises, on each side, from a point on the inner and anterior surface of the Pe- duncles of the Brain Proper, described p. 90. It runs forwards, a little outwards, and a very little down- wards ; passes between the Posterior Artery of the Brain Proper, and the upper border of the Annular Protuber- rance ; is then applied to the inner and anterior surface of the Inner Lobule of the Middle Lobe ; and at the forepart of this Lobule, after a course of about five or six eighths of an inch, it perforates the Arachnoid Membrane. The thickness of the whole of this portion is about a tenth of an inch. It is round; and is composed of Filaments or fine Fasciculi of Filaments, embraced by Neurilema. These, * Those who regard the Tractus Optici as portions of the Optic Nerves, have long agitated the question, whether the Optic Nerves actually decussate each other in the Commissure. This point never can be determined by pa- thological observations, such as some have thought sufficient to decide it ; (see Soemmeriting De Corp. Hum. Fab. IV. p. 200.) but by a minute exami- nation of all the parts in their most healthy state. The Wenzels seem ra- ther inclined to think that there is a partial decussation ; (De Penit. Struct, fee. p. 109.) but this does not accord with my observations hitherto. -f- Reil’s description and representation of the Structure of this part of the Optic*Nerve, are the only correct ones I have met with, (See Excrcit. Ana- tom. Ease. Prim. p. 2.)