SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. 114- The posterior and lateral surfaces of the Spinal Fossa, are formed by the Sub-peduncular and Spinal Lobules of the Cerehellilm; but we shall defer the description of these, until we come to view the parts on each side of the Median Line. The posterior surface of the Spinal Fossa is divided into two halves, right and left, by a fissure, which beginning here, extends, on the Median Line, along the whole of the re- maining part of the lower surface of the Cerebellum, and penetrates to the superior surface between the two Posterior Lobes behind. This may be called the Median Fossa of the Cerebellum. It varies a good deal in its shape and di- mensions ; but in general, it is so narrow opposite the Spinal Lobules, that the inner surfaces of these Lobules are in contact with each other. Above and behind this part, however, it is about a quarter of an inch wide, and exposes the superior and posterior portions of the Inferior Vermi- form Process, which runs along the bottom of it. Of the Inferior Vermiform Process, it would hardlv be possible to convey any idea by words. It is a sort of ridge, varying in length from an inch and a quarter to an inch and a half, convex from before backwards, and formed of Lamina’, which lie chiefly at right angles to the Median Line. Two fissures much deeper than the rest, divide it into three parts, an anterior, middle, and posterior. The posterior portion, is that, which in the natural situation of parts, appears behind the Spinal Lobules. It is the largest of the three, and of a pyramidal shape, with the apex look- ing backwards. The middle portion is of an oblong shape, and almost entirely concealed by the Spinal Lobules, which must be removed to bring it completely into view. The fissure which separates it from the posterior part, is in general half an inch deep, though the surfaces of the two portions are closely in contact. Laterally, it passes gra- dually into a white concave surface, which rests on the upper convex part of the Spinal Lobules. The anterior