POSTERIOR SURFACE OF THE BRAIN PROPER. 93 furrow, from the surrounding parts; above, from the Tha- lamus Opticus, which projecting considerably farther back- wards, overhangs it; on the inside, from the Upper Corpus Bigeminum; below, from the Lateral llidge of the Lower Corpus Bigeminum, and from the Peduncle; and on the outside, from the extremity of the Tractus Opticus. In the natural situation of parts, it may be seen on the inside of the Middle Lobe; but this Lobe must be cut through, in order to expose it completely. Close to the Median Line, under the Posterior Tubercle of the Thalamus Opticus, and on the inside of the Inner Corpus Geniculatum, are situated two eminences, one above the other, denominated the Corpora Bigemina*. The surface of the Upper Corpus Bigcminumt, looks up- wards and a little backwards. It is convex and oval-shaped, the long diameter running from within, outwards, and for- wards ; its convexity, however, varies, and in some it is more rounded than in others. There are slight varieties, also, in its dimensions ; but in general it is about three eighths of an inch long, and two and a half broad. Its surface is per- fectly smooth, and of a white colour, though a little darker than the Thalamus Opticus. On the inside, it is separated from its fellowof the opposite Hemisphere, above, by a smooth ti'iangular surface on which the Pineal Gland rests, and be- low, by a Longitudinal Furrow already described, as running downwards and backwards along the Median Line. TheTransverse Furi'ow already mentioned, as crossing this last at right angles, separates it from the Lower Corpus Bi- geminum ; and on the outside, there is a narrow groove be- tween it and the Thalamus Opticus, and the Inner Corpus Geniculatum. Towards the inner and fore-part, it forms a * Synonyms. Including those of both sides, Lat. Tubercula Quadrige- mina. Nates et Testes. Fr. Tubercules Quadrijumeaux. ■f Synonyms. Including that on both sides, Lat. Tubercula Quadrige- mina Anterior^ ; Nates. Ft. Tubercules Quadrijumeaux Superieures ou Anterieures.