SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. 104 from their apex to the outer angle at their base, the Fornix will cover only the inner portion of each. The middle part of the base of the Fornix, is stretched across the space between the Posterior Tubercles of the Thalami, and forms the rool of the Oblong Passage ; while the apex of the Fornix, forms an arch, over the small triangular orifice leading to the Vertical Prolongation. The outer half of the Thalami Optici is co- vered by a Vascular Plexus, which will be described along with the Membranes of the Brain. When the Central Fissure contains no Serous Fluid, there is reason to believe, that the surface of this Plexus and of the Corpus Striatum below, are closely applied to the surface of the Corpus Callosum above. We now proceed to describe the Lateral Parts of the Cen- tral Fissure; and first the Anterior Lateral Parts. The Anterior Lateral Part of the Central Fissure, is the same in both Hemispheres. It is prolonged from the pos- terior corner of the Middle Part, downwards and forwards into the Middle Lobe, in the form of a curve, of which the concavity looks inwards and forwards. It is about two inches long; and its breadth at its origin above, is about half an inch ; but it becomes gradually broader as it de- scends, so as to be nearly three quarters of an inch at its anterior extremity, where it is of a rounded shape. Along the whole of its inner edge, excepting about an inch from its anterior extremity, it communicates, uninter- ruptedly, with the external surface of the Brain ; the open- ing being continuous with that by which the Middle Part of the Central Fissure communicates with the same surface, under the posterior extremity of the Corpus Callosum. The anterior extremity, beyond this opening, forms a cul-de-sac, within the substance of the Inner Lobule of the Middle Lobe. Its inner and lower surface exhibits a large, white, smooth prominence, denominated the Hippocampus*. This begins above at the posterior Pillar of the Fornix, of which it is in * Synonyms. Lat. Pes Hippocampi ; Cornu Ammonis.