NERVOUS MATTER OF PARTICULAR PARTS. 147 half an inch in height, inclines upwards and forwards, rest- ing on the Vieussenian Valve, and divides into Ternary Stra- ta. The one behind this, is about the same height, has a slight inclination backwards, and divides into Secondary and Ternary Strata, some of which extend forwards, others backwards, and others directly upwards. Behind this are two smaller Strata, the anterior one about a quarter of an inch long, and the posterior about a third, both inclining backwards, and in general dividing into Ternary, sometimes into Secondary Strata. Behind these, is a Stratum scarcely an eighth of an inch in length, which divides into two or three Secondary Strata, inclining a little backwards. Some- times, instead of this single Primary Stratum dividing into Secondary ones, there are two or even three Primary Sti’ata dividing into Ternary ones. Besides these Primary Strata, there are one or two Ternary, which arise directly from the upper surface of the Central Mass towards the middle. From the lower surface of the Middle Part of the Cen- tral Mass in this section, five Primary Strata are also in ge- neral seen arising. The most anterior one is about an eighth of an inch long and very thin ; it inclines forwards and a little downwards, and is continued over the upper surface of the Head of the Inferior Vermiform Process, and of course is connected laterally to the Wings of this Process./ It thus forms the middle part of the floor of the Central Fissure of the Cerebellum, and sends off Secondary and Ternary Strata which supply the Head of the Inferior Vermiform Process alone. An eighth of an inch behind this, another Stratum arises, about a quarter of an inch in length, which inclines downwards and a little backwards, and dividing into Secon- dary and Ternary Strata, supplies the middle portion of the Inferior Vermiform Process. Immediately behind this, a Stratum arises, fully three quarters of an inch long, which inclining downwards and backwards, divides into Secondary and Ternary Strata, and supplies the posterior portion of 2