SKIN IN GENEltAL. 241 I have already had occasion to remark, the firmness of the connexion subsisting between the Cuticle and the True Skin. It may further be observed, that' when a piece ot recent Skin is divided, not the slightest perceptible space seems to intervene between these two. They adhere as closely to each other, as the particles of either of them do separately. The separation which is so easily effected be- tween them, sometime after Death, is, obviously, the con- sequence of a decomposition of part of the outer surface of the True Skin, or of the inner surface of the Epidermis, or, partly of both. The product of the decomposition, is a highly foetid, viscid, transparent, matter. About a hundred and sixty years ago, a layer of a sub- stance, somewhat like another Cuticle, was described by Malpighi*, as intervening between the Cuticle and the True Skin, to which he gave the name of Corpus Mucosum et Reticulare. This substance, he affirmed, was black in the Negro, and of various lighter colours, in the other va- rieties of the Human Species; and to it, therefore, he as- cribed the colour of the Skin in general. Since his time, most Anatomists have continued to describe a similar sub- stance, under the same, or a similar, name, such as Reticulum, or Reticulum Malpighianum, or Rete Mucosum ; some regard- ing it as a layer of the Epidermis, others as a distinct tex- ture ; some considering it as non-vnscular, others as nothing but a network of Vessels-f ; all, however, agreeing, in as- cribing to it the colour of the Skin in general. In the Negro it is black, and in the other varieties of the Human * Oper. Omn. II. De Extern. Tact. Org. •f This last is Bichat’s opiuion. Anat. Gen. IV. p. 653. I find it quite im- possible to conceive, what extraordinary fallacy it could have been, which could have led this ingenious Anatomist to believe, that there was such a sub- stance, between the Cuticle and True Skin, as he has described so minutely, under the name of Carps Iteticulaire. There is not only no such Membrane in this situation, but nothing at all resembling it. VOL. I. It