PIA MATER—VENTRICLES 01' THE BRAIN. 157 same Membrane that this Fissure is divided into the com- partments called Ventricles. For as the portion of it which extends into the Middle Part of the Fissure, is attached in the closest manner to the Fornix above, and to the Thala- mi below, all communication between the two halves of this Part, or between its Vertical Prolongation and either half, under the Fornix, is completely cut off. It will be -recol- lected too, that the two Anterior Prolongations of the Mid- dle Part of the Fissure, are separated from each other by the Septum Lucidum, which is impervious. So that the only com- munication subsisting in the recent Brain, between the oppo- site halves of the Fissure, or between these and the Vertical Prolongation, is by means of a small passage, which is left between the apex of the Choroid Membrane and the Ante- rior Pillars of the Fornix, and which leads also, to the ante- rior triangular opening of the Vertical Prolongation of the Fissure described at p. 98. This passage is never wanting; it was known to many Anatomists prior to the time even of Haller, and has been described by Winslow*, under the name of the Anterior Common Hole. In a lateral view, it ge- nerally appears about an eighth of an inch wide, and a sixth of an inch high. It is bounded above by the Apex of the Fornix, before by its Anterior Pillars, and behind by the anterior extremities of the Thalami Optici. In this manner the Central Fissure of the Brain Proper, is divided into three parts. The Vertical Prolongation forms what has been denominated the Middle Ventricle-f-; and the remaining portion of the Middle Part, together with the two Lateral Parts on each side, form the two Lateral Ventricles, t Right and Left. Each Lateral Ventricle is de- • Anat. Expos. II. p. 325. f Synonyms. The Third Ventriele; the Anterior Ventricle. Fr. Ventricule ties Couches Optiques. X Syhonyms. The Superior Ventricles; the Anterior Ventricles. Lai. Ve»- triculi Tricornes.