/ SYLLABUS OF LECTURES ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE SURGERY, DELIVERED IN THE MEDICAL AND SURGICAL THEATRE, BROWN’S SQUARE, EDINBURGH. / BY JAMES SYME, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF SURGEONS IN LONDON AND EDINBURGH. EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY JAMES WALKER. 1827.r , 'iU) VL> O < i:ij ' Il< • i . ■ /AM i: . J.. r. U\) A >»AOu' oau;: * •* ■ ■<' •; •; 'o»: • ‘ X. •; ;i :■ ‘i .. ■ . IIM T ... r -PLAN OF THE COURSE. I. Introductory. II. Inflammation. III. Consequences of Inflammation. IV. Surgery of Blood-Vessels. . * V. External Injuries. VI. Amputation. VII. Surgery of Bones. VIII. Joints. IX. Muscles. X. Tendons. XI. Throat. XII. Thorax. XIII. Abdomen. XIV. Pelvis. XV. Brain and Nerves. XVI. — Skin. XVII. Eye. XVIII. Mouth. XIX. Nose. XX. — — Ear.4 I. Introductory. Definition of Surgery — Its great Importance and Interest—How to be learned The Ob- ject of Lectures.—Plan of my own Course. II. Inflammation. Constitution of the Body—Vascular and non- vascular parts Action of vascular parts Natural and unnatural. Unnatural may be destructive or restorative of structure. Con- dition generally intermediate between natural and unnatural action. — Inflammation. Symptoms of Inflammation Redness^Swell- ing — Heat—Pain Derangement of Func- tion—Symptomatic Fever—State of Blood. — Nature of Inflammation — Obstruction Debility Objections to Mechanical Expla- nations Proofs that the Fluids of Organic Beings are moved by Attraction as well as Im- pulsion Definition of Inflammation. Divi- sion into acute and chronic. — Terminations. Causes of Inflammation — Direct, or Irrita- tions; Indirect, or Disturbances in the Ba- lance of Action Treatment of Inflammation. Object of Treatment Resolution — Re- moval of cause General bleeding—Venesec- tion Arm Neck Foot, &c—Arteriotomy. Effects of loss of blood—Re-action—Local bleeding Scarifying — Cupping—Leeching — Purgatives Injections — Diaphoretics— Warm bath Fomentations—Poultices—De- pressing medicines—Astringents—Stimulants — Counter-irritants—Friction—Rubefacients5 _ Blisters Eruptive ointments ~~ Moxa — Actual Cautery — Issues — Setons — Acu- puncturation—Choice of Remedies. III. Consequences or Terminations of Inflammation. 1. Mortification. Definition—Description—Local Symptoms— Constitutional Symptoms Connection be- tween local and constitutional Symptoms. — Causes of Mortification, or Circumstances in- ducing inflammation to terminate in Morti- fication 1. Weakness—of Tissue~~of Indivi- dual—of Part 2. Excessive Irritability, or Disposition to act. 3. Excessive Irritation. Treatment. Preventative Remedial.— Question as to Amputation. 2. Effusion. a. Of Serum. — (Edema. — Dropsy. — b. Of Lymph — Superficial False membranes— Interstitial — Thickenings Union by first intention Not preceded by Inflammation Principles for the treatment of incised wounds. 3. Absorption. Description of Action implied by this term Causes—Effects Mode of inducing. O 4. Granulation. Description of.—Cicatrisation Question as to Reproduction—Proofs that it is a Delusion, except in the case of Bones—Remedy of Con-0 tractions caused by Cicatrisation Ulcers Definition—Mode of treating When tend- ing to heal — When not tending to heal. Owing, 1. To defect of action 2. To excess of action—3. To other causes. Particular Remarks on Ulcers of the Legs Scorbutic Ulcers—Sloughing Ulcers—Hospital Sore—, Ulcers of the Genitals. 5. Suppuration. Properties of Pus a. Superficial Suppuration. —Runnings Treatment of acute of chro- nic b. Interstitial Suppuration—Abscess Treatment of acute of chronic. Hectic Fe- ver.,—Sinuses—Fistulas. 6- Diseased Nutrition. Division of Tumours into those depending on Displacement, and those depending on Mor- bid Growth General Remarks on Morbid Growths. — Sarcomatous Tumours — Vas- cular Adipose Cystic—Carcinomatous — Medullary—Scrofulous Encysted. IV. Surgery of Blood-Vessels. Arteries—General remarks—Consequences of Inflammation affecting their Coats—Wounds of Arteries—Opinions as to their reparation. Mode of repressing Arterial Haemorrhage. Ligature — Pressure —. Styptics—Flaemor- rhagic Diathesis — Transfusion. —.Aneurism Definition Question as to formation of Sac— Aneurisms divided into True — a. By Dilatation b. By Rupture of Internal Coats; and False. Symptoms of Aneurism—Na-7 tural Course of Aneurism. ~~ Treatment Starvation Pressure—Ligature — Bad con- sequences Proper principles of its applica- tion Internal Aneurisms.—External Aneu- risms Popliteal. — Surgical Anatomy. — Operation After treatment Surgical Ana- tomy of Arteries below Knee Operations for their Ligature. — Surgical Anatomy of Iliac Arteries Femoral — Inguinal and Glutseal Aneurism Operations Surgical Anatomy of Arm. Operations- — Surgical Anatomy of Neck. — Operations Ligature of Carotid — Subclavian and Innominata. Aneurism by Anastomosis. — Description Distinction from Naevus. — Treatment. Pressure Ligature of Trunks Excision. Aneurism of Bones Varicose Aneurism Veins General Remarks on their Structure, &c Inflammation of Veins- Causes. Treatment. — Wounds. — Bloody Tumours from their Rupture- — Naevus Varix Aneurismal Varix. V. External Injuries. Wounds— Incised—Treatment—Remarks on the performance and after-treatment of Ope- rations in general. — Punctured Wounds Contused Wounds. — Ecchymosis. Gun- shot Wounds. _ Injuries from Cold _ Chil- blains — Frost-bite. — Injuries from Heat Treatment of slight Burns— of severe Burns — Injuries from Poisons ..Mineral Vege- table—Animal — Natural Animal Poisons Morbid Animal Poisons.8 VI* Amputation. History of Circular Incision. Best mode of operating in this way. History of Flap Me- thod— Amputation of Fingers and Toes of Metatarsus and Tarsus of Leg of Thigh — of Arm — at Shoulder-joint at Hip-joint. VII. Surgery of Bones. General Remarks on their Structure and Growth. — Fractures. Causes. Simple Fracture. — Compound Fracture. Repa- ration Treatment of Simple Fractures Treatment of Compound Fractures—Ques- tion as to Amputation. — Fracture of Toes. Metatarsus. Fibula. — Tibia and Fi- bula Patella. Femur — through its Shaft — through its Condyles through its Troch- anters — through its Neck—Fingers—Meta- tarsus Radius—Radius and Ulna Olecra- non^-Humerus—through its Shaft through its Condyles through its Neck—Clavicle Acromion Sternum Ribs Pelvis Ver- tebrae—Lower Jaw Nose—Cranium De- tachment of Epiphyses Bending of Bones. False Joints Remedy Inflammation of Bones—. Periostitis Treatment of Acute— of Chronic .— Exostosis — Solid — Hollow Acicular, or Foliated. — Absorption of Bones Mortification, or Necrosis—Causes. Necrosis of external Surface — of internal Surface of whole Thickness Opinions as to Restoration Treatment. — Necrosis of particular Bones. — Caries — Description —9 f Causes Treatment. ^.Osteo Sarcoma—De- scription Treatment— Rachitis — Descrip- tion Treatment Mollities Ossium—Af- fections of Spine Inflammation—Suppura- tion—Lumbar and Psoas Abscess. Caries- Lateral Curvature Club Foot. VIII. Surgery of Joints. General Remarks on Connections of Bones.— Symphysis. — Articulation. — Structure of Joints Strains Dislocations in general Symptoms Causes and Treatment — Dislocation of Shoulder Elbow Wrist— Thumb —Fingers Clavicle Lower Jaw— Vertebra; — Hip-joint Knee Ancle — Astragalus—Wounds of Joints Compound Dislocation. — Inflammation of Joints. — Dropsy of Joints. _ Absorption of Cartilage. — Suppuration—Anchylosis.^.Loose Carti- lages—White Swelling. Morbus Coxarius. IX. Surgery of Muscles. Inflammation Rupture—Contusions Con- traction—Absorption Displacements. X- Surgery of Tendons. Rupture.—Wounds.—Ganglion.^Bursre. XI. Surgery of Throat. Surgical Anatomy—Cut-Throat—Stricture of (Esophagus—Foreign Bodies Extraction. —(Esophagotomy— Stomach Pump. Tra- cheotomy Laryngotomy—Bronchocele Tumours of other kinds.10 XII. Surgery of Thorax. Wounds—1. Not penetrating 2. Penetrating. — 3. Penetrating with Wound of Lungs 4>. Wound of Lungs and Pleura Costalis with- out external opening,^.Emphysema Gun- shot Wounds of Chest. — Paracentesis. Diseases requiring it—Operation Mamma. Description Inflammation— Suppura- tion Milk Abscess—Deep-seated Chronic Abscess. — Irritable Tubercle. Chronic Hardness. Scirrhus—Cancer. Question as to Extirpation.—. Operation Medullary Sarcoma Cystic Tumours, tkc Mammilla. — Glands of Axilla Suppuration—Extir- pation. XIII. Surgery of Abdomen. Wounds _ of Parietes — penetrating — with wound of Intestines Wounds of Viscera without external aperture. — Gastrotomy Paracentesis Cases requiring it Opera- tion.^Hernia_ Surgical Anatomy of Ingui- nal Description of Common—a. external — b. internal Congenital—Infantile ?—Causes. Symptoms of Reducible — Incarcerated— Strangulated. — Treatment of Reducible — Incarcerated Strangulated. — Operation. Preternatural Anus Surgical Anatomy of Femoral Description.—Causes.—Symp- toms Treatment.—Operations- —Umbilical and Ventral Hernia. — Perineal, &c- — In- tussusception.II XIV. Surgery of Pelvis. Rectum Imperforate Anus -Stricture—Fo- reign Bodies Ascarides—Prolapsus Ani,— Haemorrhoids,—Fistula in Ano. Urinal Organs. Kidneys Inflammation.—Suppuration Cal- culus Nephrotomy Ureter—Description, Obstructed by Calculus Bladder and Urethra Surgical Anatomy.—Retention of Urine from 1. Palsy—Plow induced — In- troduction of Catheter.—2. Spasm — Causes. Treatment. 3. Enlarged Prostate. — Symptoms. — Treatment—Abscess of Pros- tate. — Calculi of ditto. 4. Stricture of Urethra Causes. — Symptoms. — Treat- ment. — Fistula in Perinaeo. — Extravasa- tion of Urine. Puncture of Bladder. Above Pubes—from Perinaeum through Rectum. — 5. Rupture of Urethra how caused—Remedy—6. Calculus Formation — Composition — Symptoms Sounding Treatment — Palliative Radical a. By Removal through Urethra—b. By Excision. —History of Lithotomy . Apparatus Minor Apparatus Major — Lateral Operation Surgical Anatomy — Proper Mode of per- forming the Operation Alleged Improve- ments since Cheselden shewn to be no Im- provements. — Late Proposal for renewing the old Plan of beginning the Operation one day, and finishing it on another Litho- tomy above the Pubes. — Lithotomy by the Rectum. — Incontinence of Urine From1. Of the Cerebral Substance —Causes — Palsy — From Irritable Bladder Common, but most mischievous mistaking of its Symp- toms for those of Stone or Stricture Treat- ment— Haematuria — Retention of Urine in Female — Calculus of Bladder in Female Removal by Dilatation—By Operation. Genital Organs. History of Venereal Diseases — Syphilis Go- norrhoea— Symptoms — Treatment—Chor- dee Inflamed Absorbents — Bubo—Gleet —Preputial Gonorrhoea — Warts—Sores of Penis — Of Mechanical Origin. — Of Poi- sonous Origin Constitutional Symptoms Sloughing Sore Phymosis Paraphymo- sis Cancer of Penis Amputation of Penis. Excision of Clitoris Imperforate Vagina. Extirpation of Uterus— Of Uterine Poly- pus .— Testicle — Hydrocele — Diagnosis Treatment—Palliative—Radical — By Exci- sion By Incision — Seton — Injection Haematocele—Circocele Hernia Humoralis Chronic Enlargement of Testicle—Abscess of Testicle—Scirrhus—Medullary Sarcoma, &c—Castration Scrotum — Enlargement. Cancer. XV. Surgery of Nervous System. Anatomical Description of the Brain and Nerves Inflammation of the Brain and its Membranes Consequences—Hydrocepha- lus _ Acute _ Chronic. — Absurdity of Pa- racentesis Effects of Violence —ConcussionSymptoms Treatment 2. Of the Mem- branes Causes.— Symptoms and Treatment Compression — Cause — Symptoms — Treatment Trepan. — Wounds of Brain Hernia Cerebri — Fracture — Fissure Depression Puncture — Contusion of Cranium Exposure of Cranium Wounds of Scalp Contusions of Scalp. — Congeni- tal Tumours of Head Encysted Tumours of Scalp. Spinal Marrow. — Spina-Bifida Description Treatment. — Injuries of Spinal Marrow — Concussion—Compression Fracture Nerves Injuries of Nerves. — Effect of Pricks Partial Division.—Lacera- tion and Lodgment of Foreign Bodies Tic Douloureux—Tetanus Tumours of Nerves. — Subcutaneous Nervous Tubercle En- largement of Truncated Extremities- XVI. Surgery of Skin. Anatomy of Skin. — Inflammation of Skin. Erysipelas Symptoms—Causes Treatment. — Phlegmonous Erysipelas. CEdematous Erysipelas-— Gangrenous Erysipelas— Fu- runculus or Boil Anthrax or Carbuncle. — Cutaneous Diseases — General Remarks on their Causes and Treatment Warts Callosities—Corns Hair— Nails Invert- ed.—Onychia Paronychia- XVII. Surgery of Eye. Anatomical Description of Eye and Appen- dages- — Conjunctiva. — Inflammation. ^ Acute Ophthalmy,—Chronic Consequences-14 — Purulent Discharge — Infantile _ Gonor- rhoeal. — Egyptian. —Granular Surface Nebula. — Pterygium— Ulcer—Sclerotic Inflammation—Iris Inflammation Conse- quences of Iritis — Hypopion. — Operations for Artificial Pupil. — Vascular Cornea Abscess of.—Perforation. Prolapsus Iridis. — Staphyloma. — Retina. — Inflammation. —Medullary Sarcoma—Extirpation of Eye- ball—Cataract Symptoms—Causes—Treat- ment—Lenticular— Displacement Extrac- tion—Breaking up—Capsular—Eye-lids Ophthalmia Tarsi. Hordeolum. Ectro- pium Warts. — Encanthis.— Entropium. —Trichiasis Lachrymal Gland—Extirpa- tion of Orbital Tumours Epiphora—Opera- tion Abscess of Sac Fistula Lacrymalis. XVIII. Surgery of Mouth. Anatomical Description of Mouth and Appen- dages Salivary Glands — Fistula—Calcu- lus Ranula — Extirpation of Parotid Tu- mours—of Sub-maxillary do.~~of Sub-lingual do Cancer of Lip— Hare Lip.—Split Pa- late. Wounds of Tongue. — Ulcer of Tongue—Cancer of do Extirpation of do. Swelling of Tongue Short Fraenum Teeth Remarks on Growth, &c— Extrac- tion— Stumps, &c. ^ Gum-boil—Cancrum Oris. Epulis. Malignant Tumours of Gums— Excision of Jaws. Tonsils. In- flammation. — Abscess. Chronic enlarge- ment~~excision.