i ■i./Miscellanea MEDICO'CHIR urgica. PART II.Miscellanea Medico-Chirurgica. SECOND PART. OCCASIONAL PAPERS AND REMARKS. BY E. L. HUSSEY, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS ETC., ETC. BY HORACE HART, PRINTER TO THE UNIVERSITY. 1887.Digitized by tine Internet Arc!' live i in 2015 Iittps://archive.org/details/b21939202_0002Among the notes in this Volume are some which were overlooked when the former Volume was prepared for the Printers. The arrangement in that Volume is not in all parts so clear as might have been, if I had been more at leisure. Some few mistakes were made in the copy supplied to the Printers. The proof sheets, moreover, were not revised with full care : here and there a misprint was overlooked. These should be corrected :— 225, line 8,—no sufficient opportunity 347, „ 10 from bottom,—to enquire into the conduct of the 385, „ 11 from bottom,—the election of the Officer Winchester Road, Oxford, September 1887.PAGE Vaccination 1 Infant Mortality 3 Labor obstructed 4 Surgical Mishaps 6 Dislocation of Shoulder 7 Halfpenny swallowed 7 Yellow Aconite 8 Medical Knights 9 Dr. Giles 10 Domestic Medicine 11 College of Surgeons 14 Coroner's practice 15 The Judges 28 Town Council 30 Local Board of Health 32 City Water 47 Construction of Hospitals 47, 53 Radcliffe Infirmary . 50Miscellanea Medico-Chirurgica, [210-224. 226,7. 381.] To M. D. M., Esq. In the paper you have sent me, I see for the first time your questions upon Vaccination. I have httle to add to what I sent for answers to the questions circulated by Mr. Simon. However desirable it may be that everybody should be vaccinated, I am not able to suggest the means by which the object can be secured. The difficulty is with the poor and ignorant. Much of the difficulty would, I think, be overcome, if the management of the vaccination was separated from the work of the Poor Law Board, and from all association with relief under the Poor Law; and if the registration of the vaccination was done in a more simple way than now. I think also that every case of death from Small-pox should be referred to the Coroner before the death is registered. The only case I have had of disease following Vaccination, was in a Clergyman, about 30 years of age, — not a man of strong constitution. He had been successfully vaccinated in childhood, and his arm presented a good cicatrix. He wished for a repetition of the vaccination. I took lymph from the arm of a girl about 17 years of age, a servant of his mother's, whom I had vaccinated : she had not been vaccinated before that time. An irregular pustule formed in his arm ; and two patches like ring-worm appeared on the back of one hand. The marks from these were visible to the time of his death some years afterwards. The girl from whom I took the lymph was in good health, and free from all eruption ; and B2 she continued in good health as long as I saw her, — for some years. Without wishing to throw a doubt on the value of the lymph taken freshly from cows and calves, I prefer the lymph supplied through the National Vaccine Establishment. This is, I believe, the lymph taken by Dr. Jenner, and passed through a succession of human subjects. I think mischief has been done to the cause of vaccination by the agitation in favor of lymph newly taken from cows. Public confidence has been shaken, upon finding Medical Practitioners taking part in the agitation. It seems like an opinion that the former vaccination was a mistake. The newer opinion may, before long, be thought to be no better. The only way I know of stopping the spread of Small-pox is by vaccination, and thus hindering people from the liability to the contagion. As 'the public health' becomes better under a better knowlege of vaccination, the cases of Small- pox will be few, — or none. June, 1884. If the wishes of the Board of Guardians may be gathered from the reports of their Meetings, it seems that they desire to have a correct registry of all cases of vaccination in this city. The Compulsory Vaccination Act requires that all children born since the passing of the Act shall be vaccinated, and that certificates of the vaccination performed by the Medical Officers appointed for the purpose in parishes shall be sent to the Registrar of the district. The object of the Board would be effected if they were to recognize all Medical Practitioners as Officers for the special purpose of vaccination. This was recommended soon after the passing of the Act of Parliament. An objection has been made to it, that parents perhaps might not approve of the interference of Guardians of the Poor. After having spent several thousand pounds upon Surveyors and Lawyers, the Board are now trying to force all the Medical Practitioners to give them, — without any kind of payment, — certificates of the vaccination of all their private8 patients; and, after charging them collectively with a breach of the law, they threaten them with a criminal prosecution. The certificates, however, are not forthcoming ; and a new scheme is to be tried. The Practitioners are to be entreated courteously to do the bidding of the Board. The consent of parents is not asked. The members of the Medical Profession are the only class of Her Majesty's subjects, having their bread to earn by their labor, who work systematically in their calling without being paid for it: and it is an unkind return, after services freely rendered for centuries to all their fellow-subjects indiscrimin- ately, that Members of a public Board, so lavish in other respects of funds entrusted to them, should try to evade all just payment for new services required, and should speak of the Members of an honorable profession in the terms used at the late Meetings of the Board. {Oxford Herald, November 1859.] To THE Secretaries of the Obstetrical Society. Your printed letter not needing immediate answer, escaped my attention until lately. Not being now much engaged in the practise of Midwifery among the poor, it is not in my power to give all the facts you seek. In a country where children are publicly called ' incum- brances,' we can hardly wonder that there is an ' excessive mortality of Infants under one year of age.' It is hardly to be expected that their life should be thought of sufficient value to have any extraordinary care taken of it. One cause of the mortality may be found in the unhealthy constitution of the parents. It can not escape the observation of a member of the Profession that people of weak and unhealthy constitu- tion among the poor and improvident form marriages in greater numbers than among the rich and educated. The state of the Colonies offers the means of earning sub- sistence to the strong and active. There children are a help to their parents: they are not felt to be ' incumbrances'; B 14 their life Is known to be of value. Undoubtedly, it is difficult to prevail on the uneducated and faint-hearted to seek a home at a distance, when they do not feel their power to make one. In some of the Colonies the climate can be recommended as favorable to the health and growth of the body; and Settlers are capable of an amount of exertion, and able to bear ex- posure, greater than could be borne without risk to their health in our variable climate, and in shorter days. 28 September, 1868. DROPSY IN THE FETUS OBSTRUCTING LABOR. The case reported by Dr. Herman reminds me of one which occurred in 1859, in the practice of the late Mr. Owen, of this city. A Lady, 35 years of age, whom he had attended in former confinements, supposed herself to be in the eighth month of pregnancy. Symptoms of labor having commenced, she sent to Mr. Owen early in the morning. He found the head pre- senting ; and from the small size he concluded that the fetus could not be more advanced than the eighth month. The pains continued regular throughout the day, but no progress was made in the labor; the head remained fixed in the position in which it was first felt. In the afternoon I met Mr. Owen accidentally in the street, and he mentioned the case. He was then about to return to the patient, and he added that, if he found no further progress had been made, he should apply forceps and endeavor to extract the child. About 9 o^clock at night he sent a message, requesting me to come and assist him. When I entered the room, the head of the child was lying on the bed, separate from the body; and Mr. Owen was making preparation to perforate the thorax. He told me that as no advance had been made, he applied the forceps, but with all the force he used he could not move the body; at length the head separated at the neck. I passed my finger into the axilla and brought5 [Medical Times and Gazette^ January 1882,] down one of the arms ; and, using some considerable degree of force in the attempt at extraction, I pulled the arm off at the shoulder, without being able to move the body of the child. We next cut away a part of the ribs, and passed the perforator into the thorax, and through the diaphragm into the abdomen. This was followed by a profuse discharge of a clear watery fluid. It was evident that the obstruction arose from enlargement of the fetus; and, the dropsical fluid having been evacuated, we expected that the fetus would soon follow; but the body did not move under the expulsive pains. By drawing down the remaining arm, and folding a napkin round the shoulders, we got a firm hold, and we were able to exert a greater amount of power, and to add our efforts to those of the uterus, which was contracting actively. The mother complained severely of the pain produced by the passage of the child's body. As soon as the abdomen could be reached, I thrust the perforator through the parietes, and evacuated an other collection of clear watery fluid, as much in amount as upon the former puncture. It required the exertion of a considerable degree of force to complete the extraction. Notwithstanding the removal of the fluid by the two punctures we had made, the abdomen remained greatly dis- tended. The fetus appeared to be in the eighth month. It was without distinctive mark of sex. The external organs were not developed. The fluid in the abdomen was con- tained in cysts, of which two had been punctured during the labor. Other cysts seemed to be still distended with fluid. The origin and connexions of these were not ascertained by the partial dissection which was the only examination we had the opportunity of making. The fluid which escaped during the labor may be estimated as rather more than two pints. The placenta came away without difficulty; and the lady recovered rapidly. Her next confinement passed without anything unfavorable.6 'SURGICAL MISHAPS/ One of the cases mentioned by Mr. Teale reminds me of a case formerly under my care. In 1861 a young Lady applied to me with a small tumor behind the angle of the jaw on the right side. It was tough and almost cartilaginous under examination, and the skin was generally adherent over the surface. The case had been seen by the late Mr. Hester and Mr. Owen of Oxford, and by Sir H. Acland. It was thought to be of a cystic nature ; and the swelling had been injected with Tincture of Iodine. I cut through the substance in its whole thickness, and endeavored to clear away the contents from each half; this could only be done to a very slight extent. The wound healed favorably. A second operation was undertaken some months afterwards, the skin was divided, and separated without difficulty from the tumor. This now appeared to be about the size of a large walnut and of a fibro-cellular structure. I cut off the exposed part, so as to clear the wound for a deeper dissection. Then, fixing a hook in the remaining part, I endeavored to draw it forward. This I was unable to do. The attachment was evidently very deep ; the skull itself moved with the motions of the hook. I cut off, as deeply as I could, the part of the tumor which was transfixed by the hook, and closed the wound. This healed as favorably as after the former opera- tion. The Lady afterwards married ; and she died with phthisis more than twenty years after the operation. There was not any fresh growth of the tumor. Being in communication with Mr. Caesar Hawkins at the time of the operation, I mentioned the case as a disagreeable piece of active surgery. He told me that Mr. Liston, in a similar case, found, upon the death of the patient, that the tumor had its origin in the base of the skull. [Lancet, February 1887.]7 DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. Reduction after eight days by manipulation. As a case of double ' right-angled traction,' the following may be worth publishing. A thin, spare man, below middle height, 70 years of age, employed as helper in some stables, fell on the tip of his shoulder at night 10th July, 1867. He continued at his work, cleaning horses and carriages, and sometimes driving; but he could not raise his elbow, nor could he put his hand behind him. He was sent to me on July 18th, by a Practitioner to whom he applied for relief. The signs of dislocation at the shoulder were well marked, the head of the humerus resting below the coracoid process. After taking off the man's shirt, I laid him on his back upon a table, close to the edge, and attempted to make extension with my foot in the axilla, as I sat on a chair at his side. Finding the position inconvenient, I gave up the attempt. Then, standing at the end of the table, behind the man's shoulder as he lay on his back, I drew the arm away from his side, with the fore-arm flexed at a right angle and the wrist raised perpendicularly upwards, the hand rather inclining to fall downwards. I kept the limb in that position by hooking my finger in the bend of his elbow; and I diverted the man's attention by talking upon indifferent subjects. Forcible extension was not wanted. The muscles soon relaxed, and I then let the hand fall over, thus rotating the head of the humerus inwards, and the bone slipped at once into the glenoid cavity. The man recovered the perfect use of the limb. \Lancet, April 1887.] A HALFPENNY SWALLOWED BY A CHILD. Vomited five weeks afterwards. A little boy, 5 years old, suffering from whooping-cough for seven or eight weeks, was under the care of Dr. Jenkins. On the afternoon of September 10 last he was lying on his belly upon a sofa, and laughing heartily, as he was playing8 with one of his relations. In his play, he seized a shawl which was on the sofa, put it to his mouth, and bit it. At the same moment he was attacked with a fit of spasmodic coughing ; and a bronze halfpenny, which was observed to be upon the shawl, was suddenly drawn into his mouth, carried backwards during a forced inspiration, and sucked down un- intentionally. Some check in the breathing came on, and the child turned blue in the face. The father passed his fingers to the back of the throat, and tried to extract the coin. He could feel the edge of it with the tip of his finger ; but he was not able to lay hold of it, and remove it. Dr. McFadden, who lived near, made an attempt to extract the coin with forceps. But the coin escaped from the instru- ment, and passed downwards. A piece of biscuit was after- wards taken by the child, and swallowed without difificulty. The next day was passed without anything to be remarked. The third day the child complained of pain, and was con- tinually putting his hand to the pit of his stomach, as the place where he felt the pain. Vomiting after taking food and after the paroxysms of coughing became more frequent. The child lost flesh and became much weakened. He could only retain a very small portion of food at a time. Under direc- tions given by Dr. Jenkins, the mother examined carefully all the matter vomited, and also whatever passed the bowels. On the morning of October 12, after breakfast, the child vomited the contents of his stomach. In the matter vomited the mother observed a solid substance, dark in color, and thickly coated. She put it into water, and after much wash- ing she found it to be the missing halfpenny. It was much corroded, but the distinctive features of the coin were visible on both sides. The child did not suffer any further inconvenience. [Medical Tmies and Gazette, February 1882.] POISONING BY YELLOW ACONITE. A Correspondent sends the following: — 'A Lady had a bunch of freshly cut flowers of the yellow aconite in a glass of9 [Medical Times and Gazette, November 1885.] water on the table in her drawing-room ; a pet dormouse be- longing to one of the children was running about on the table, over the child's hand and arm. The child said the dormouse was thirsty, and she took her little thimble, filled it with water from the glass, and offered it to the dormouse. The animal drank it readily. In a minute or two it fell over on its back ; and after a short struggle, died on the table.' The yellow aconite would thus seem not to be quite so inactive as has been assumed. [^Medical Times and Gazette, February 1882.] MEDICAL KNIGHTS. You tell us that you look forward to a long line of Pro- vincial Medical Knights. Few of your readers will, I think, take the same view. During my attendance as a pupil at St. Bartholomew's Hospital — some five and forty years ago, — I remember that I once asked an old practitioner some question about Sir James Earle and other gentlemen of title, whose names were known in connection with the Hospital. He told me that it had been the custom to knight the Senior Surgeon of the Hospitals in London: that, when it came to Mr. Abernethy's turn to receive the honor, he declined it. Mr. Vincent did the same ; and the Minister ceased to recom- mend the Surgeons for the honor. The number of Medical Practitioners in possession of the honor has been declining for some years. Passing the Baronets, and the Knights of the different Orders, it appears from published lists of Knights Bachelors, to which I have the opportunity of referring, that there were 33 members of the medical profession among the number in 1849, and 17 in 1871. At the present time there are 10,—which is less than a tenth part of the number of Lawyers now on the list.10 DR. GILES. [133. 138. 140. 218,9.] Dr. Richard Giles, who had practised for 35 years in Oxford, died at Torquay on the 8th of August, 1882, in his 68th year, from disease of the heart of long standing. He was born in a village near Oxford. His father was a member of the Cor- poration of that City, and died with phthisis in mid-life. Dr. Giles's professional education was commenced under a firm of Practitioners at Thame, in the work of a large and varied practise extending over a wide district. He there acquired a familiarity with the wants of the sick-room, with- out which the treatment advised by experience is seldom carried on with success. Proceeding to Edinburgh, he entered the classes in the Medical Faculty of the University; and after taking in due course the degree of M.D. in the Univer- sity, he proceeded to Paris, where he spent a further period of study at the hospitals of that city. He returned eventually to Oxford, with the view of practis- ing as a Physician. He used to tell of his first case, that the patient died suddenly, and the Coroner held an enquiry; the second patient who came to consult him was the foreman of the jury who sat upon the inquest. He gained at an early period the favorable opinion of his seniors in the profession ; and he quickly established himself firmly in the confidence of a large and increasing circle in and around the city. From much that was profitable in practise near home, he was at that time excluded by the circumstance of his being connected with the City, rather than with the University ; and he lacked also the advantage that graduation in the University gives a man in gaining introduction into the inner society of that famous and wealthy body. Dr. Giles possessed in a remarkable degree a quality which is of value in every walk of life, and in none more than in our profession,—that of relying on his own judgement in the exercise of his calling. In forming his diagnosis at the bed- side, and in obtaining by examination of his patient the full information of his case, from which alone a correct diagnosis11 is to be formed, he relied on his own mode of investigation into the circumstances and the course of the illness. He would listen with an appearance of willing submission to the solicitations and suggestions of anxious and officious friends; but he never allowed himself to be led by such interference from his own view of the case, and the line of treatment which, in his opinion, was the one to be followed. He was a man of active and industrious habits, taking sufficient interest in pursuits outside the profession to give him occupation of an agreeable nature in the intervals of leisure. Though of a constitution naturally feeble, he carried on for many years a large consulting practise, under the frequent necessity of distant journies, without being disabled by serious illness. It was only after more than one warning of the failing power of his heart, that he decided, at the urgent solicitation of his friends, to take rest. He went to Torquay last autumn ; and though relieved at first from the dropsical effusion which had shown itself, he sank, without suffering, under the return of it. l^Medical Times arid Gazette^ August 1882.] DOMESTIC MEDICINE. When the late Mr. Holland, Rector of the parish of Stanton St. John's, — a village about 6 miles from Oxford, — was about to enter on the duties of his cure, he asked me to get him some few medicines, which might be useful in cases of illness among his parishioners at times when they could not have the help of the Doctor, from a distance. There was a small bequest for medicines and other things, which would help him in the purchase. He begged me also to give him directions for the administration of the medicines; and to tell him what to do in case of an accident, so as to be of use to the sufferer. What should be done, — for the good of the Patient, — in the case of an accident, when the Doctor is not at hand, is set out in the Lecture which I gave some time afterwards to theVolunteers. Of this I gave him a copy, when it was printed. The directions for the administration of his medicines, I trusted to his memory. All illness, I told him, — in short, every complaint, — which he could not cure with a dose of simple medicine, was of sufficient importance to be referred to the Doctor. PilulcB Colocynthidis compositce, — (formerly Pilulae Coccii:) known among the poor as ' Pilly Coashy,' and much used when opening medicine is wanted; — in pills of 5 grains. Two pills are a dose for a grown person. Jalaps — in pills of 5 grains. Two pills are a dose for a grown person. In some cases three pills may be given. Jalap is more rapid in acting than Colocynth ; but it is not bene- ficial as a medicine of frequent use, as the means for acting on the bowels. Rhubarb, — in powder. From 20 to 30 grains is a dose for a grown person. Rhubarb is not often given to grown people, leading an active life, and with healthy powers of digestion. Castor Oil, — a mild aperient, speedy in acting. A dessert spoon is generally a sufficient dose for a grown person. Those who suffer from habitual obstruction of the bowels, and in whom the action of other, or stronger, aperients is not readily borne, may want Castor Oil. A small tea-spoon before break- fast, the first thing in the morning, is generally a sufficient dose for such persons. You will have many requests for it, — difficult to be refused. It is much in favor with the poor, and often taken in large and repeated doses, when they would be better without it. It should be kept for the use of the Doctor, and not given without his desire. Pulvis Cretce compositiis, — Chalk with spices. 10 to 20 grains is a dose for a grown person, in an attack of diarrhea. Three doses may be put into a bottle: — one to be taken after each loose motion of the bowels. The powder should be made into a paste with a small tea-spooil of spirit, — such as Sherry, Whisky, or Brandy, and the water added to the paste by little and little. Peppermint water may be used, or Cam- phor Julep, in making the mixture. It would promote the cure, if the patient put his feet in hot13 water, and went to bed, — taking care that he was not exposed to cold, — so as to be chilled, — in case he rose from bed for any purpose. Liquorice root, — in small pills: of no medicinal action. A medicine that is harmless, may be beneficial with people who think themselves the subjects of illness, — when they are not so. You should have something of the kind at your command. Aqtia MenthcB piperitcE,—Peppermint water; — and Mistura Camphorce,— Camphor Julep : — of no medicinal action, but of value for the flavor. They are sometimes desired by people as a 'stomachic,' or 'carminative,' — medicines, which cure like a ' charm,' without visible action. Preparations of Opium. — They should be kept away from the other Medicines. They are for the use of the Doctor alone. Vinum Opii, — Laudanum. Tinctura Camphorcb composita, — Paragoric Elixir. Pulvis Ipecacuanhce compositus,—Dover's Powder. Pulvis Cretce compositus cum Opio, — Chalk with Opium. With the directions for the Medicina Pharmaceutica, and Medicina Chirurgica, I gave some instructions also for the Medicina Dietetica; — and I pointed out to him the import- ance, to his poor parishioners, of that part of Dietetic medi- cine, which, — strictly speaking, — included the clothing of the body. Some 6 or 8 years afterwards I asked him what cases had been under his care. The most frequent, he told me, had been in the laboring men, under an attack of diarrhea. He gave 3 doses of Chalk with Spices: if not cured, the Patient was to send to the Doctor. He did not remember that this treatment failed. In cases of confined bowels, he had given Colocynth ; but not Jalap, or other aperient. His reputation as a Practitioner of Medicine stood high among his parish- ioners. The preparations of Opium had not been used, except on one occasion, and that by me, when visiting a poor person in the parish : I went to his house, and made a dose of medicine, with some Opium in it.14 THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS. [392. 400,1.] To J. E. E. Esq. The request made to the Council to acknoivlege the right of those Members of the College who are not Fellows to vote in the Election, ought, I think, to have had from the Council the short and simple answer, that there is no such right under any of the Charters, — and that it can only be had from the Crown ;—-and that the Petition for the purpose ought to be presented to the Home Secretary. Are you right in what you say of General Practitioners ? A General Practitioner, — as generally understood, — is occu- pied with Medicine, Surgery, and Midwifery, supplying his Patients with medicines ; the supply of medicines being the distinguishing feature of the calling. The General Practition- ers have taken the place of the Apothecaries, who have passed off the stage, under the improving hands of the Society of Apothecaries. The men who are calling for the power of voting are Fellows who are not likely to obtain seats in the Council, by the votes of the existing Fellows, and others who wish to get admission, — as they now have into the Council of Education and Regis- tration, — that they may put down (as they think they will,) unqualified or irregular Practitioners, and make education so dear that a poor man will not be able to put a son into the profession. In short, they want ' protection,' which has been withdrawn from every other calling. If the right to vote is given to the Members who are not Fellows, it can not be refused to the Licentiates in Dentistry, or Midwifery. With the right to vote, the right to be elected, must be given. All who hold a qualification under the College, must be admitted equally to give votes, or to receive them. You omit the case of the Colleges in the Universities. There the Fellows have the whole management of the College : they elect into their own body: they choose strangers, or members, as they think fit. The other members of the College15 have no voice in the election of a Fellow, nor in the affairs of the College. The Teachers of Anatomy in Oxford are not the persons of -distinction whom you have found in other schools. Two of the four are Members of the College, without being Fellows : the other two are sufficiently distinguished by the degree in Arts, and are not members of the Profession. 30 November, 1886. To THE Secretary of the College of Surgeons. In answer to your printed letter, I have to observe that, under the Charters of the College, none but Members of the College are eligible for seats in the Council, — and none but Members of the College are allowed to vote for them. I am of opinion that Members of other Colleges, — whether of Physicians or Surgeons, — ought not to be eligible for seats in the Council, nor be allowed to vote for them. 14 December, 1886. [235. 293,4. 350,1,4,5,8.] THE PROPOSALS FOR AMENDMENT OF THE LAW OF INQUESTS. Many suggestions have been made for mending the Law of Coroners' Inquests; — not the only part of the judicial system in need of amendment, may be said, after the Mackonochie case, the Tichborne case, and the Belt libel case. Among the changes proposed, one is, that the Inquisition super visum corporis shall be abolished; and that, instead of it, an enquiry into the cause of death shall be held by a Justice of the Peace, without viewing the body, and as a matter of course, without a Jury. It has been proposed that the view of the body shall not be a part of the proceedings before the Coroner, — or that the view shall be taken only at the dis- cretion of the Coroner, or at the wish of the Jury; — that the number of Jurors shall be less than is now required, and16 that they shall be taken from the Jurors' book in a County, and from the Burgess-roll in a Borough; — that the power of the Jury to put questions shall be abolished, and that no tes- timony but what is legal evidence shall be admitted during the enquiry; — that no accused person shall be tried upon an In- quisition found against him;—that a qualification, or evidence of professional fitness, shall be required of all Coroners; — and that the Coroners shall not be elected by the Freeholders in a County, nor by the Town Council in a Borough. We have not been told that the Justices of the Peace are willing to undertake the duty of making the enquiry, or that the friends of a deceased person will find the attendance at a Police Court, or at Petty Sessions, less unpleasant than at an enquiry before a Coroner. The attendance, it can hardly be doubted, will be more burdensome to the family of the de- ceased, the time given to the proceedings will in most cases be longer, and the costs of the enquiry will be greater. It would be but a slight alteration of the present mode of procedure if the Coroner, — who is by office a Conservator of the Peace, — should be declared to have the powers of a Justice of the Peace, for the purposes of the enquiry. The view, it must be borne in mind, is for the discovery and for the identity of the body. This ought to be the duty of a recognized officer. The Coroner is the officer to whom the duty is committed; the Jury are the witnesses of the judicial act, and neither they nor the Coroner can be excused from the proper and orderly performance of the duty. The body is present; and the enquiry, as a judicial proceeding, becomes worthless without the view. In cases of suspicion, unless the cause of death is found by judicial enquiry, a man ought not to be put on his trial for homicide ; nor, if registration of the causes of death is desirable, ought the death to be registered without it. If the identity of the body, and the cause of death, are not found before burial of the remains, the evidence can hardly be found satisfactorily afterwards. There is a general concurrence of opinion that the Coroners for a County should not be elected by the Freeholders at large. But there is not the same agreement on the question how they ought to be elected. It has been proposed that the17 appointment should be made by the Court of Quarter Sessions, — on the principle that the local authority, which makes the payment for the work done, is the proper body for appointing the officer who does the work. In Boroughs, where the Town Council have the right to elect their more important officer, the Mayor, there is no visible reason why they should not also continue to elect the Coroner. Upon the question of qualification, it should be observed that no test of professional fitness is required of a Mayor, or a Justice of the Peace, nor of a Sheriff, or Under-sheriff; — that the greater number of the Coroners in England are either professional Lawyers or Medical Practitioners; that the Deputy appointed by a Coroner for a County must be approved by the Lord Chancellor; and that successive Chancellors have laid down a rule that the Deputy must be a Lawyer or a Medical Practitioner.. . . Under the Irish Coroners Act of 1881, it is required that every Coroner in Ireland shall be a Medical Practitioner, a Barrister or Solicitor, or a Justice of the Peace. It would be well, perhaps, if the same control over the appointment of a Deputy by the Coroner of a Borough was given to the Lord Chancellor; and also that the Coroner of a Borough should have as full power of acting by Deputy as the Coroners for a County have. It was proposed by a Committee of the House of Commons that the number of Jurors to agree in a Verdict should be nine. In some of the Colonies, seven is the number required. In the United States of America, six is sufficient In actions tried in the County Courts, five is the number required for a Jury: in some Manor Courts even less. In the High Court of Justice, the Judges have adopted what has always been the practise in Chancery, that of hearing causes without a Jury. It follows, of course, that if less than twelve are required to find a verdict, the Inquisition can not be taken as a Bill of Indictment, on which an accused person should be put on his trial. If the Jurors are taken only from the recognized lists of qualified persons, it will not always be easy, — even in thickly peopled places, — to find the full number required for an Inquest. C18 The suggestions made by the Jury are sometimes useful, as leading to the discovery of matters important to the enquiry ; and, under due regulation by the Coroner, are not found to be objectionable in practise. It may be easy to exclude what is irrelevant from the written Depositions; but it will not be so easy in the course of the enquiry to hinder statements that are extraneous or irrelevant from being made by persons called to give evidence, when their knowlege of the facts, and the testimony they can give, have not been previously sifted by a Solicitor. The Coroner should have the power, when he receives in- formation of a death, to take the testimony of the Informant on oath; — and he should also have the power to summon a Medical Practitioner for his opinion or for information, and for making a post-mortem examination, if necessary ; — with power to take the testimony of the Practitioner, on oath or otherwise, as he may think best, before he decides upon further proceedings. In many cases the necessity for a public enquiry would be avoided, if the Coroner could obtain information in an authoritative form from a Medical Practitioner. It has been suggested that the enquiry might in all cases be held by the Coroner without a Jury. It is so in Scotland, — with the difference that the Officer there is called the Pro- curator Fiscal; and that the enquiry is held in private,. .. the special duty of the Officer in Scotland being the discovery of crime, rather than finding the cause of death, as in England. January 1884. ATTENDANCE OF MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS AS WITNESSES AT INQUESTS. [367.] Before the passing of the Medical Witness Act it was not the custom to pay any but poor people for attending as wit- nesses before the Coroner. A small sum was paid to poor persons for their expenses, or for loss of time. At an Inquest19 it often happened, from the circumstances of the case, that the Practitioner in professional attendance on the deceased person was called to explain the cause of death, sometimes at the wish of the friends or the family of the deceased, but more commonly by desire of the Coroner. The testimony of the Practitioner was the most important evidence. The attendance at Inquests was a heavy demand on the time of a Practitioner and it was not always given very wilHngly. But the duty of all persons having a knowlege of the circum- stances to attend the enquiry, was a duty owing to the State; and witnesses did not look for payment for the discharge of a public duty. The Medical Witness Act gave the Coroner a new power to order an examination of the body of the deceased, and to summon a Practitioner as a witness ; and the payment of a fee to the Practitioner was made compulsory. By a special provision of the Statute, the Medical Officers of Public Institu- tions are not entitled to this remuneration in the case of patients who have died there. Though not entitled to a fee, they are not exempt from their duty of attending as witnesses. In the Hospitals in London, as in other large Towns, their attendance is sometimes required by the Coroner, or advised by the Governors under pressure of public opinion; and the attendance is given without hesitation. When it is likely that a charge of a criminal nature may require investigation, this is the proper course; and when a professional opinion is necessary to complete the chain of evidence, it ought to be taken from the Practitioner who, — to use professional lan- guage, — prescribed the treatment. No matter what the title of the office, or the professional designation of the officer, he is defined in the Medical Witness Act as ' the Medical Officer whose duty it may have been to attend the deceased person as a Medical Officer of the Insti- tution.' The public institutions are defined as ' any public Hospital or Infirmary, or any building or place belonging thereto, or used for the reception of the patients thereof, any County or other Lunatic Asylum, or any public Infirmary, or other public medical institution, whether supported by en- dowments or by voluntary subscriptions.'20 It has been held by the Judge of one of the County Courts that the sick wards of a workhouse are within the terms of the Statute as a ' Public Hospital or Infirmary.' In cases before me, I always paid the fee to the Medical Officer of the Workhouse. It seemed to me that the workhouses had been overlooked when the words of the Statute were settled; and that the same thing had happened with some other institu- tions. There are establishments, with Infirmaries attached, and Medical Officers regularly in attendance, which partake more or less of the nature of the public Institutions described in the Statute, Among them may be named — prisons, mili- tary hospitals, public schools, training colleges, almshouses and asylums for the aged, dispensaries, cottage hospitals, nurses' homes, and perhaps others which have been instituted during the 50 years which have passed since the Medical Witness Act. It is worth a question whether it is not a part of the duty of the governing body of such Institutions to see that the Coroner is supplied with the information he requires, in the case of those who come by their death when inmates, or recipients in any way of the benefits afforded there ; and that whatever is necessary or proper as remuneration should be the subject of previous arrangement between them and their Officers, and that the unseemly question of payment should not be brought before the Coroner. In the case of a death upon a railway, the Officers of the Company make enquiry into the circumstances; and the necessary witnesses are brought to the Inquest at the expense of the Company. Where it happens that no Practitioner was in attendance on the deceased before death, the Coroner is empowered by the Statute to summon and to pay some other Practitioner ' being at the time in actual practice in or near the place.' In the case of a death in the open street, where the deceased is not known, the body is often taken at once to the nearest Hospital, there to await the directions of the Coroner. If medical evidence is wanted at the Inquest, the Coroner will often call one of the officers resident in the Hospital; and he then receives the fee allowed. It is, I think, open to question whether the House-Surgeon, who is forbidden by the rules of21 his office from engaging in practice, comes within the definition of ' being at the time in actual practice/ A question has been raised of the sufficiency of the fee as payment for professional attendance. While it may be ad- mitted that the fee is not large in return for a professional man's time, it should be borne in mind that it is nearly as much as the Coroner gets for work which takes more of his time, and that a Medical Practitioner is the only professional person to whom a payment is made for the attendance before the Coroner; also that it is not thought sound policy by those who are concerned in the administration of justice to remunerate too highly those who are required to give evidence in cases of public enquiry, especially when of a preliminary nature. In the case of analysis being required, in addition to opening the body, the Coroner can, if he thinks fit, obtain power to order payment at a rate commensurate with the skill. A Coroner told me that he had paid £37 in one case for a chemical analysis. It has been suggested that the attention of Parliament should be called to the subject, with a recommendation that the fee allowed to a Medical Practitioner should be paid to the Medical Officers of all Hospitals, and that only those officers should be excepted who reside in the Hospital. It is not suggested that the chief Medical Officers of the large Hospitals in London are willing to be included in the general obligation to attend on payment of the statutory fee, or that the managers of these Institutions would allow their Officers to receive the fee. [Medz'cal Times and Gazette^ May 1885.]22 UNSATISFACTORY INQUESTS. From letters in late numbers of the Journal, it seems that one of your correspondents has written to the Registrar- General upon the subject of unsatisfactory Inquests; and, in reply, he has been told that the Practitioner in attendance during the last illness of a patient can not withhold the cer- tificate of death required by the Registration Act, and that the duty of communicating with the Coroner may be safely left to the Registrar. To these two points I beg the attention of your readers. Under the Registration Act, no period is named for the Practitioner in attendance to sign and give the certificate. Five days are allowed for the friends of the deceased person to give information of the death to the Registrar, — taking with them the certificate from the Practitioner. Few of your readers will, I think, be inclined to doubt that the Practitioner would be acting within the terms of the law, if he paused for five days before giving the certificate, in a case where he had any suspicion that the death did not happen from natural causes, by the visitation of God, or until he had assurance that the Coroner did not require an Inquest. The Registrars, for the most part, do well what is often an unpleasant part of their duty ; but my experience as a Coroner does not enable me to agree in the opinion that the duty of communicating with the Coroner may be safely left to the Registrars in all cases; though I think it may well be left to many of them. Some Registrars think that, when informa- tion of the death is given by the friends of the deceased person, with the certificate from a Practitioner, their duty under the Registration Act is to register the death, and the cause of it as stated in the certificate, without further question ; and such Registrars will do so, whatever the terms of the certificate. In a case of doubt or suspicion, few Practitioners will be found to certify the death from an unknown cause; hardly any, I think, will add that an Inquest is necessary, — a thing for the Coroner's opinion, not the Practitioner's.23 In cases of sudden death, and in cases of death after violence, information generally reaches the Coroner quickly. Open violence is a matter of public notoriety; the circum- stances of the death can not be kept private. The difficulty is, to know what should be done in cases where an act of violence has not become public, or where the Practitioner in attendance sees the circumstances of suspicion which are not so open to others. There can not, I think, be a doubt that the proper course for a Practitioner to take, — in the interest of all parties, for his own satisfaction, as well as that of others, — is to put himself in communication with the Coroner, and to withhold the certificate of the cause of death until he has the sanction of the Coroner to give it. An examination of the body might be desirable; but the body should not be opened without communication being made to the Coroner. [British Medical Journal, September 1886.1 In the British Medical Journal, in November 1886, Mr. Arthur Browne, Solicitor, Deputy Coroner of Nottingham, explains the state of the law on the subject of Medical Cer- tificates of death. A medical man is not obliged to certify a violent or unnatural death; and if he does, he may be the means of perverting justice by enabling the burial of the body without a proper enquiry. The object of the Medical Certificate is that it should be registered, — not sent to the Coroner; and its natural consequence is, burial without enquiry. The Registration Act imposes a penalty on a Practitioner who 'refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse,' to give a Certificate. What, asks Mr. Browne, could be a more reason- able excuse than the knowlege or belief that the relations of a person who had died an unnatural death, intend to bury the body without an Inquest ? What, — he asks further, — is the object of giving a Certifi- cate which the Practitioner knows ought not to be registered ? Is it not, he adds, to avoid disfavor on the part of the24 Patient's relations, and to throw upon the Registrar the re- sponsibility of reporting to the Coroner ? — not a very high- minded policy for a member of a learned profession to pursue, and no good reason for a Practitioner deviating from his plain duty. To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management, Radcliffe Infirmary. J. M. was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary some weeks ago, with a broken Leg ; and he died, as I have heard, in the House 22nd January. The case was not reported to me. In a Certificate sent to the Registrar of Deaths, other symptoms are named, with the fracture, as causes of the man's death. Although there may have been other causes concurring, or following the injury, notice of the man's death ought to have been given to me as the Coroner. 2 February 1886. To THE SAME. At an Inquest held before me at the Infirmary on Friday last, upon the body of C. C, it appeared that the body of the Patient had been opened for examination without permission from me. The same thing was done in the case of W. C, an other patient, upon whose body I held an Inquest on 17th March last: I did not hear of it till some days afterwards. As it is a very improper proceeding, to interfere in that way with the duty of the Coroner, — I beg the favor of your taking such order in the matter that it may not be done again. 19 October 1886. To THE SAME. G. P. died in the Infirmary on the 5th inst, from the effects of injuries received in a fall from a tree, — for which he was under treatment in the House at the time of the accident, several months ago. The circumstances of the case, and that25 his death was caused by the injuries received, were well known to the Officers of the House. A certificate that his death was caused by a fractured spine was given for the purpose of registration, and the body was removed from the Infirmary. No notice of the case was given to me. I take the liberty, as Coroner, of calling the attention of the Committee of Management to these irregularities. The length of time which passed between the receit of the injuries and the day of death, does not affect the duties of the Coroner. 12 April 1887. [330,1,2. 343, 367.] To THE SAME. C. P. died in the Radcliffe Infirmary in May last, after an operation performed, as I understand, without the previous consultation of all the Surgeons of the House. The body was buried before I heard of it. From rumors about the case, — that a mistake had been made in the opinion formed by the Surgeons, I called upon the Registrar of Deaths for the Medical Certificate on which the death was registered. The cause of death is there stated to be, — Excision of uterine fibromata; — no mention is made of excision of anything else. Assuming the information I received to be correct, the fact that death followed an operation, or a course of treatment, adopted under an erroneous opinion, is not of itself a reason for holding an Inquest. I took no further steps in the matter. Being in London yesterday at a Meeting of Coroners, I mentioned the case; and I learned that, in the opinion of other Coroners, the fact that a false Certificate of the cause of death had been given, was of itself a reason for holding an Inquest, and that, if necessary, the body would be dug up for the purpose. I beg the favor of your submitting this to the consideration of the Committee of Management. 26 July 1887.26 'FOOTBALL FATALITIES.' In the Medical Times and Gazette of Saturday, it is stated that the son of the Principal of J. College died from injuries caused when playing at football. Your readers may, perhaps, be willing to receive this explanation of the circumstances of the case. One evening I saw it stated in a newspaper that the lad in question had died from the effects of an injury at football at S. School. Next day, in the course of conversation with a Practitioner whom I met accidentally, I heard that the lad died in Oxford at his Father's house. Upon the statement publicly made, attributing the death to an act of violence, and upon the death within this City, I felt it to be my duty to call upon the Registrar for the certificate on which the death had been registered; and, as it did not refer to the alleged injury, I went to Dr. T. the Practitioner who had certified. Dr. T. told me that the circumstances of the injury had not escaped his attention ; that the injury, such as it was, had been received in March, and that the lad continued the game without being disabled. He continued in perfect health for a month ; and he had since passed a highly creditable examination in book-work. Dr. T. said that, though the illness followed the injury, the long interval of perfect health made him hesitate to accept the injury as the necessary cause of the illness, or to withhold his certificate of death from natural causes. To this I take the liberty of adding that, with the facts brought to my knowlege, I considered there was no cause for interference on the part of the Coroner. [Medical Times and Gazette, January 1882.] WEIGHT OF THE HUMAN BODY. At the late assizes at Lewes, a man and woman were tried and convicted for manslaughter, by neglect and ill-treatment of a child, aged 5 years, the daughter of the man by a former27 wife. In the evidence, as reported in the Daily News, it is stated that the child weighed only 25 pounds at death, when it should have weighed 45 pounds. In the tables prepared by Dr. Boyd and Dr. Sharpey the average weight of a female child from 4 to 7 years of age is given as 24 pounds and 9 ounces. [Medical Times and Gazette, February 1885.] coroner's court. Referring to ' B.'s' enquiry in the Law Journal of the 12th inst., of the Coroner's power to punish for contempt, if com- mitted in Court, allow me to say that it is doubtful whether the Coroner has the power of inflicting a fine. In Pater s Case, the power of the Court of Quarter Sessions to inflict a fine was allowed by the Court of Queen's Bench. The question of the Coroner's power has not been before the Superior Courts. The power to commit is generally claimed in the text- books. The only case with which I am acquainted is Sproston v. Davis, which was tried at the assizes at Warwick in March 1851, before Mr. Baron Alderson. Certain points reserved were brought before the Court of Exchequer in May 1851. Some of the particulars have been communi- cated to me by the plaintiff"; but I have not seen any report of the case. A short reference to the case appears in the * Justice of the Peace,' 1854, p. 206, as a case 'not reported.' It is said that the Coroner's power of committing for con- tempt was admitted by the Court. At a later page the Editor adds: ' There are reasons for doubting whether the Court were altogether satisfied with the decision after they had pronounced it. The point, therefore, can scarcely be considered as settled.' The mode of procedure by imprisonment, and the form of process are undefined : I do not know any precedent. The Law Journal, July 1884.28 In September 1884 a Circular letter was sent from the Home Office to the Coroners, acquainting them that the Secretary of State was anxious that, in future, all prosecu- tions on capital charges should be conducted under the control of the Director of Public Prosecutions: and the Secretary of State requested that the Coroners would, — in every case in which a Verdict of Murder or Man-slaughter is returned,—send a copy of the Depositions to the Director of Prosecutions, with any remarks which they think fit to offer. A man was charged before the Sitting Magistrate at the Police Court, Worship Street, with manslaughter, in killing an other man. ' The man,' said the Magistrate, ' died at the Hospital. Was no statement taken from him ? Was no Magistrate sent for ?' He was told. Not. The Magistrate commented strongly on the fact that the deceased man was in the Hospital on Saturday and Sunday, and died there on Monday ; and no deposition taken. {Daily News^ September 1885.] [350. 354-7. 362. 371. 378,9. 381,2.] * One would readily have passed over an act of petulance, redeemed by subsequent apology, were it not that this is the third occasion, during the last few weeks, in which we have had occasion to call attention to similar escapades on the part of this learned Judge.'—{Brit. Med. Journ. 27 Nov. 1886.) To those who are not familiar with the mode in which the business of an Assize is done, it may be well to say, that there is often much to be done, with little time to do it. A Judge of average capacity may be able to do the work he has undertaken within the time appointed. But now and then the business lingers ; and the work of the Assize is concluded in a less satisfactory manner than when cases are heard at Westminster before a full Bench of Judges, and in the29 presence of a well-attended Bar. — 'It is a matter of ob- servation, that, in proportion as a long and heavy Session in Circuit advances, irritability, impatience, and intellectual obscuration, appear in the Judges.' — [Combe^ Constitution of Man, &c., Ch. VII.) * All the world,' said the Sitting Magistrate at the West- minster Police Court, ' was supposed to know the law. The only persons who could be ignorant of the law, were the Judges; because they could issue a writ of error.'—{Morning Post, 23 Apr. 1879.) The Judges are not always mentioned with respect in other places. In the House of Lords, Lord S. said ' that, although Judges on the Bench were supposed to be super-humanly wise, there were sometimes cases in which they talked about things they did not understand.' — (Daily News, 6 May 1884.) In the House of Commons, Mr. P. said that if the juris- diction of Quarter Sessions was to be attacked, it should not be done because, on some particular occasion, a foolish Chair- man made a foolish remark. Were there no foolish Judges; and did no foolish remarks ever fall from the Bench ? . . , He did not wish to be misunderstood : he had asked a question. Dr. K. thought he had said there had been Judges who were fools; but whether he had said so, or not, they were all aware that there had been. — (Morning Post, 31 Jan. 1878.) When the question of the expenses of the Circuits was before the House of Commons, Mr. L. asked whether it applied to Judges roaming about the country abusing Her Majesty's Government? . . . He might have added, — and finding fault with the laws they are paid to administer. — (Duily NewSy 1 Aug. 1884.)80 In an action against the printer of a newspaper for libel on a Coroner, in publishing some comments on an Inquest, the Judge several times interrupted the proceedings with remarks of his own. ' I would ask your Lordship,' said the Counsel for the Coroner, ' to abstain from such remarks while the case is proceeding.' The Judge continued; and repeated some observations of the Coroner, reported as objectionable. Counsel replied, ' I have heard Judges in the Superior Courts make remarks quite as offensive as that complained of In addressing the Jury, at the end of the case, Counsel said, ' It was not unusual even in the Superior Courts to hear a Witness interrupted: and he had heard such things as Judges in the Superior Courts interpose, and tell anecdotes, and refer to personal experiences; and he had, moreover, seen displays of temper running through a whole trial, until the enquiry had been disfigured.' — (^CanterbiLry Press, 24 May 1884.) At a meeting of the South Ward Association, in October 1876, Mr. Hussey said he had lately read some lines in a newspaper, which, he thought, gave good advice to public speakers. If they did not agree with him that the advice was good, he hoped, at all events, that they would allow him to follow it. Whatever you have to say, my friend, Whether witty, or grave, or gay, Condense it as much as ever you can, And say it in the readiest way. He came before them as a Member of the Medical Profes- fession: there had not been one in the Town Council within his memory. He could only suppose that the Burgesses did not like Medical men, and would not put one of them into the Council. Yet he could not help thinking that in many ques- tions, the opinion and experience of a Member of the Medical Profession might be found useful. They were aware that two years ago he was a Candidate for this Ward. Whilst he was canvassing he had a question put to him; ' How is it a Medical man can do his duties if elected ?' For himself, all he could say was that if they returned him, he would do the31 best he could. For others, he thought that every citizen ©f a free State ought to take upon himself some public duty. He observed that people were ready enough to make excuses for shirking pubHc duty; but nobody had a difficulty in finding time for his pleasures. He was not in the habit of taking part in political meetings ; nor had he joined any Association formed for political pur- poses. Soon after he came to reside in Oxford he witnessed a Parliamentary election, and he was much struck with one thing, — that there were no party badges, and no party colors. These were things that the best men of both parties, — if they would allow him to say so, — had long been desirous to get rid of. There was enough in a contested election to keep up ill-will without having recourse to artificial means of ex- citing it. He thought the people of this town were much in advance of those in other towns he had visited. He was sorry to say he was no longer of that opinion. Badges and colors had been introduced by a party in this City, and he thought that party had a great deal to answer for. They had not only introduced party colors; but they had done more to keep up the distinctions and dissensions of political parties. Some years ago a paper fell into his hands printed in pale blue ink; and he found in that, that everything was to be made of a political character, and nobody was to be admitted to any office unless in that character. To his surprise, he saw included in that recommendation the appointment of the Physicians and Surgeons at the Infirmary. Whatever a man's political opinions had to do with his competence to treat th© sick, he could not understand. During his recent canvass he found that the recommendation had extended to the persons known as District Visitors ; and that they had taken a part iji the election. He thought those well-meaning Ladies would do more good, and would be more entitled to respect and support, if they kept within the lines of the calling in which they had enlisted themselves, and did not meddle with mat- ters in no way connected with the benevolent purposes they professed to have in hand.83 [371.] • At a dinner given by the Mayor at the Town Hall, in October 1877, the Mayor proposed, as a toast, the Health of the City Magistrates, with the name of Mr. Hussey, the Coroner. Mr. Hussey in returning thanks, said the Mayor had been kind enough to refer to the appointment which he lately had the honor to receive from the Town Council. The duties of the office would, he hoped, always be performed in a manner credit- able to the choice which the Council had made, and satisfactory to the City at large. Allow him to say, — what they all learned by experience, — that a man who undertook public office in a free country must not be too thin-skinned. He must be prepared to discharge the duties under a constant sense of his liability to the freest criticism, which was not always fair or favorable : and he must not be surprised if that criticism should sometimes take the shape of the extra-judicial dictttm of a newly appointed Judge, imperfectly informed of the law as well as the facts. THE LOCAI, BOARD OF PUBLIC HEALTH. [210-228. 256. 308-311.] At a Meeting of the Local Board, November 1876, Mr. Hussey said the question before the Board was a report from the Nuisance Removal Committee, recommending that in certain events some payment should be made to the Infirmary. The objections to the proposal had been stated at meetings of that Committee ; and it was not necessary to repeat them. The Radcliffe Infirmary, — with 160 beds, and £50,000 funded capital, — used to take charge of cases of Fever, as of all other diseases. The Governors who now took the manage- ment, lately resolved that cases of Fever should not be ad- mitted, except on a promise from the Local Board to pay for the maintenance of the patients. The resolution could not be33 made a rule of the House, according to their mode of doing business, until the Governing Body decided on it in April next. However, the Resident Officers naturally enough acted on it at once, and would not take in the patients. Some members of the Board said that, considering the uneasiness which had arisen from this action at the Infirmary, something ought to be done, and it ought to be done at once; and that in the absence of any other plan, this proposal ought to be accepted. To that reasoning he had no answer to give; but he wished that the arrangement should be temporary ; that the Governors of the Infirmary might have time to review the order of their Committee of Management, and that the objections which had been made might be fairly considered. After discussion, Mr. Hussey said it might remove mis- apprehension if he added that the Committee thought it important that the Board should decide on the principle. The Committee were free to consider all questions of detail, and especially the amount of payment. It was decided to refer the matter to the Committee, that they might make arrangements as to the amount to be paid for the patients. At the Board, May 1881, Mr. Hussey proposed that the Infirmary Committee be requested to make a report at the next meeting of the Board. He said the question of admit- ting cases of Fever had been before the Board for several years. In March 1878, a Committee of Enquiry was appointed. In May the Committee reported that the existing arrange- ments were unsatisfactory; and they were directed to continue their enquiry. In April 1880, a fresh question arose. The land on which the Hospital for Small-pox stands was wanted for the new streets being formed by St. Johns's College; and the College gave the Board notice to quit. This additional question was then referred to the Committee. But the Com- mittee have not made any further report. He proposed that the Board should call on the Committee, which had been appointed three years ago, to make a report on the result of their enquiries. It was, no doubt, desirable that when a Com- mittee was appointed, they should be left to do their work D34 without interference, and should be allowed sufficient time for every member to form his opinion on all points of the subject referred to the Committee. He was not then raising any question of the duties of the Governors of the Infirmary under the trusts of the Lancashire Fund. The time for such a question would not come until the Committee made their report. He did not raise any question of the management of the Infirmary. He was aware that the Managers had applied to the Charity Commissioners to sanction a scheme for the administration of the Lancashire Fund; and he was also aware that they had got a new Chairman at the Infirmary. In these altered circumstances, he thought the members of the Board would be inclined to say that public bodies moved slowly; and that the Infirmary ought to be allowed time to consider their position, and to make arrangements. He assented to that; and he would not have brought the subject now before the Board, but for the circumstance that at the first meeting of Governors of the Infirmary, at which the new Chairman was present, he gave notice that he intended to raise the question of the obligation of the Infirmary to take in cases of Scarlet fever, instead of throwing it on the Local Board. Scarlet fever was one of those classes of infectious Fever Vs^hich he, and some others, thought the Infirmary was bound to take. The proceedings showed that the question was not settled; and he thought it right to bring this new branch of it to the notice of the Board. The motion was agreed to. At the Board, July 1881, Mr. Hussey proposed that it be referred to the Nuisance Removal Committee to consider the means within the district for treating cases of Fever arising in persons without proper lodging and accommodation, and report to the Board accordingly. He did not think there would be any opposition to the enquiry. It was, however, decided that the question should be referred to a Special Committee.35 At the Board, December 1881, Mr. W. proposed that the Infirmary Committee be empowered to enter into negotiations with the Committee of Management of the Radcliffe Infirmary in order to secure the reception into the Infirmary of cases of Fever occurring within the district. Mr. Hussey moved as an amendment that, before giving power to a Committee to enter into such negotiations, it is desirable to know whether there is any legal liability on the part of the Board to provide for the reception of cases of Fever into the Infirmary. He said the motion v/as brought forward by two members of the University, — both of them subscribers to the Infirmary. The ' Oxford University Gazette,' the official organ of the governing body of the University, on the 14th of June last, contained a notice by the Vice-Chancellor that he had received from the Managing Committee of the Infirmary an offer to let part of their build- ings to the University for the use of the younger members in sickness: — that is, the Governors of the Infirmary, holding between 4 and 5 acres of land in trust for the sick and lame poor, and having also a funded capital between ;^50,000 and ;^60,000, all given for the same purpose, propose to let part of their buildings to the University, — a body of persons who have an income between 300,000 and 400,000 a-year, with- out having a place in which they can put one of their younger members in case of Measles. If the motion was carried, it would enable the two contracting parties to settle the terms, — of course at the expense of the ratepayers. Beyond these young men, . . . some of the persons, he supposed, to whom Mr. W. referred as ' persons without proper lodging and accommodation,' . . . there were now and then within the district some persons in want of medical treatment. For a hundred years that want had been supplied by a large charit- able institution, the Radcliffe Infirmary. In mentioning the Infirmary he did not wish to say anything in disparagement of the Institution; it had been the means of doing an im- mense amount of good in past years, and he did not doubt it would do the same in years to come; but five years ago the Managing Governors, disregarding the trusts on which their property was held, resolved that they would no longer D %36 do so, unless the ratepayers contributed more largely. No doubt the members were aware that large sums were given to the Infirmary in the direct remission of rates and taxes. He beh'eved they had received as much as ;^8,000 of public money in that way. The motion did not raise any question of the power of the Infirmary to take in all cases requiring admission, nor of their duty to do so. The motion took that for granted. They would observe that the negociations proposed would come to nothing unless these two points were first settled, — that the Infirmary was able to take in all the cases, and were willing to do so. He said the Governors were willing; because it was their duty, and they knew it. No question was raised by the motion, of the duty of the Board, as the Sanitary Authority, to call on the Governors of the Infirmary to do their duty in the matter, and to see that they did it. That was a fit question to be considered ; but it was not then before the Board. But there was a previous question,— whether the Board was bound to pay the Infirmary for doing its duty. The motion took that for granted. He thought that in the face of the engagements undertaken by the In- firmary, and the means at the command of the Governors for fulfilling it, the Board was not justified in doing so. The Board was not distributing a benevolent fund; they were the stewards of the ratepayers. He did not call in question the power of the Board to spend the money in the manner suggested; nor did he call in question the usefulness of the purpose to which it was to be applied. But they ought to have an authoritative opinion whether there was any liability on the Board. If there was, neither the Board nor the rate- payers would object to a proper performance of the duty. But if there was no such liability, their duty to the ratepayers required that they should not give their money for the sup- port of an Institution to which the duty in question properly belonged, and the Governors of which had in their power ample means for discharging the duty. After discussion, Mr. Hussey said that reference had been made to three matters, — the trusts of the Lancashire Fund : these had been confirmed by the Charity Trustees, and the37 Infirmary were bound to take in all cases of Fever within the district. Mr. W. —To the extent of ^36 a year. Mr. Hussey, — Not so ; they were bound to take in all that applied for admission, without turns of recommendation, and free of all payment. There was no restriction. The value of the fund had been calculated upon niggardly pecuniary principles. If the Trustees had kept the fund in their own hands, the yearly dividends would have given the right to send in 26 cases a-year; and taking one year with an other, that would have been all that was wanted. It had been said they ought to contribute to the Infirmary, because the Governors said they were in debt. He asked, who was the creditor ? Nobody pretended to be able to tell who the creditor was ; and when the present Treasurer took office on the 1st of January, a balance of £^95 was handed over to him. An other subject had been introduced, — the opinion given by the Clerk, and contained in a report of a Committee in June last. The report was made with the assent of 4 or 5 only of the members of a Committee, consisting of 13 members; and it did not touch the question of the duty of the Infirmary to the sick. A proper question would have been. What are the duties of the Infirmary, in case of patients with Fever applying for admission ? If the Managers refuse to acknow- lege their obligation, are there any means to enforce it at law? and if so, who are the parties to put the law in force? That question was not put to the Clerk. The amendment was lost, and the Motion was carried. At the Board, June 1882, the Committee made a report, recommending that the terms proposed by the Infirmary should be accepted. Mr. Hussey said it was a proposal to vote a sum of money from the rates, to be paid to the Infirmary, for work which had been done for a hundred years without payment, — that is, without direct payment. There was no legal liability on the Board to make the payment; and it was remarkable that those who brought it forward did not show there the same activity and determination which they had shown in an other place, as well as on other occasions, to protect the ratepayers from illegal impositions and unjust38 charges. The ratepayers were not to have a voice in the management of the Infirmary. It was a maxim that taxation without representation is tyranny. Under the instructions given to the Committee, it was their duty to point out to the Managers of the Infirmary what their duty was, not only under the Lancashire Fund, nor under that larger sum which was raised by a public collection, and given to the Governors on the faith of their word that the money was wanted, and would be laid out in building wards for the free admission of cases of Fever, but in respect of the land they held, and the capital accumulated, — all of which was held under legal instruments of trust, for the use of' the sick and infirm poor being objects of charity.' Were undergraduates and sons and daughters of Professors, or the female students of the ladies' colleges, such objects ? Yet these were taken into the Infirmary as patients. The question of taking in patients to pay was much opposed; and twelve years ago the Governors took the opinion of Counsel. They were advised they could not do it. The question dropped ; but it was now raised again. The conclusion from the report was that the Governors repudiated their obligations, and were to be re- leased from them, — as far as could be, — by a vote of the Board, that the duty might be taken by the Board, and the expense thrown on the ratepayers, . . . those poor persons whose case had often been put before them in a very touching manner. He was astonished that the Managers of a Charit- able Institution should be ready to take money which was not given willingly; but which was wrung by compulsion from these poor ratepayers. He adopted Mr. W.'s reasoning at the last meeting of the Board upon the expense charged by the Town Council for the water, —' that the Governors of the Infirmary were in the position of persons having an important article of public consumption to contract for, with the exceptional privilege of coming to the Board with voting power at their backs, and saying, " You shall vote this con- tract at this figure." If an other contractor came with votes at his back, what answer would they give him ? ' In suggest- ing that the Town Council charged the Board too much for the water, Mr. W. did not tell them that they charged the39 Infirmary too little, — 25 per cent, less than other customers ; and that the deficiency must be made up by other consumers. The members of the Town Council had no interest in that other question. But in this the members of the University had; for, if they could get possession of the buildings of the Infirmary, they would be spared the expense of providing a place for their younger members in sickness, — a duty of a very pressing nature, but one which they did not seem in any hurry to take on themselves. The Governors admitted that they had the means of taking in the cases of Fever; all they said was that they wanted to be paid for it. After discussion, the matter was referred to the Infectious Disease Committee for consideration. At the Board, July 1882, Mr. Hussey proposed to ask the Clerk's opinion upon a question which had been before the Board for some time, and on which there had been some differ- ence of opinion. To some extent it might touch by implica- tion the question of the duty of the Infirmary; for if the Infirmary was bound to take in these cases of Fever, the duty of this Board lay within a narrower compass. They were aware that he had persistently set before them his own opinion that the Infirmary was bound to take in the cases ; and that the refusal of the Governors to do so arose from an imperfect view of their obligations. Some members of the Board held the same opinion. It was important that these opinions should be examined ; and if erroneous, they should be corrected by sufficient authority. The Board had lately bought a piece of land on which they were going to erect wards for Small-pox. This land would answer all the pur- poses required for such cases. But if the Board is to take charge of cases of Fever, an other piece of land must be found, and an other building erected; and it ought to be at a distance, for it was not safe to allow the nurses and other attendants on cases of Small-pox to be in communication with other patients, or with those who were in attendance on them. The Report made at the last meeting of the Board had been referred to the Infectious Diseases Committee. The question of the liability of the Board would come before the40 Committee ; and he asked that the Committee should be allowed to have the benefit of Mr. Morrell's opinion, to guide them in a question of great importance, and one which ought to be settled before any attempt was made to negotiate with the Managers of the Infirmary. He was ready to be guided by those who were more competent than himself to form an opinion; and he thought the Managers of the Infirmary would do the same, and with that liberality, and that sense of justice, which generally ruled in Institutions of that nature, he thought they would be disposed to return to the former practice; and that they would see the propriety of cancelling an order which had given rise to some unpleasant discussion. He concluded by moving, — That the Clerk be requested to consider and advise what is the duty of the Board toward persons without proper lodging and accommodation applying for admission into the Radcliffe Infirmary in cases of Fever; and, if such persons are refused admission, are there any means of enforcing it ? The motion was agreed to without discussion. At the Board, September 1882, Mr. Hussey said that in public bodies it was generally found to be an advantage that the proposer of a motion should name the Committee, and should have some kind of power in calling the Committee together, and in suggesting a line of enquiry. But no such power existed at that Board. On referring to the rules for the transaction of business, they would see that, though the Board met regularly, any five members could call a meeting of the Board : the case of Committees was overlooked. There was no time appointed for their meetings; nor were the Officers of the Board bound to attend. He did not wish to cast any imputation on the Committees, nor on the way in which they did their work. He only suggested that greater facilities should be given, under which their work could be done more expeditiously. He would give an instance in the question he had brought before them, of the right of patients with Fever to be received into the Infirmary. In March 1878, he proposed that the case of the Lancashire Fund should be referred to the Nuisance Removal Committee. That Com-41 mittee met once a month, and the Officers of the Board attended the meetings. An amendment was carried that the question should be referred to a Special Committee. It was not necessary for him to pursue the question fully; for in June 1880 the Governors of the Infirmary themselves referred it to the Charity Commissioners. In July 1881 he proposed that the question of the accommodation in the district for patients with Fever should be referred to the Nuisance Re- moval Committee. An amendment was again carried, to refer it to a Special Committee. The whole question, as it seemed to him, might be investigated fully in six months, and a report made, on which the Board could decide finally. He concluded by moving that every Committee shall have power to meet upon the request of the Chairman of the Board, or of any two members of the Committee. The motion was carried. At the Board, February 1883, a report was received from the Nuisance Removal Committee recommending that the opinion of Counsel be taken on the liability of the Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary to admit patients with infectious Fever, and to treat them gratuitously. Mr. Hussey said the Nuisance Removal Committee was the largest of the Committees, with the most important duties and the fullest powers. When they considered the large pecuniary stake involved, and the length of time the question had been under discussion, it was not unreasonable to hope that the Board would adopt the recommendation of the Com- mittee, and agree to take what he thought was a very long step toward the settlement of a troublesome question. The object was to submit to Counsel, as an independent person, accustomed to consider the effect of written documents, and questions of interpretation arising under them, and to have his opinion whether certain trusts which he (Mr. Hussey) and others alleged had been established at the Infirmary for the benefit of the sick poor did really exist, or whether, as others thought, the Infirmary was a voluntary institution, and the Governors had the right to do what they would with their own. It would be easy to go farther, and asked Counsel to42 point out what are the means for compelling performance of the trusts. He hoped the Board would not think it necessary to add that. He would not suggest that there would be any backwardness in performing trusts, when once understood. He hoped that, when the nature of the trusts was clearly seen, the duties would be readily undertaken, and that the two bodies would act hand in hand for the common good of the district. After discussion, Mr. Hussey said he had for six years taken advantage of every form to bring the question under the consideration of the Board, and to settle it; and he had found the most determined obstruction. Mr. W. told them the Infirmary had not sufficient income for the work they did. Mr. Hussey said this was always being said. As a matter of fact, when the present Treasurer took office, a balance of £^95 cash was handed over to him. On the 1st of January, 1882, he had a balance in hand of ;^931; and on the 1st of January in the present year it was ;^399 ISs. lid. They were told it was impossible for the Infirmary to provide for all cases. Yet the Medical Officers of the Infirmary, with an experience as Practitioners from 20 to 40 years, gave their opinion to the Governors that the accommodation provided was sufficient, — not, perhaps, for Undergraduates, but for all those who generally seek admission, — the persons without proper lodg- ing and accommodation, whose rights the Board was especially bound to guard; and he never heard of any case of Fever which had been refused for want of room. The Governors of the Infirmary had twice taken the opinion of Counsel ; and both times the opinion was against them. When it was pro- posed to build the new Fever wards, the Treasurer told the Governors that they were obliged, under the conditions on which they had received benefactions, to provide for contagi- ous diseases; and in 1870 the Committee recorded their desire to make immediate arrangements for the purpose. No question of the duty to do so was raised until 1876, when the Governors for the first time refused to receive such cases unless they were paid for them. The recommendation of the Committee was adopted.43 A Report was received from the Infectious Diseases Com- mittee, submitting plans for a new Hospital at Cold Harbor. Mr. Hussey said he thought they should pause until they got Counsel's opinion. He should move as an amendment ' That the report be referred back to the Committee, to con- sider and report what accommodation is wanted for cases of Small-pox.' He thought the matter should stand over until the next Meeting to give them time to consider it. He thought it was the largest question that had come before them since the Drainage work. After discussion, Mr. Hussey, in reply to some remarks by Mr. W., about the spread of Small-pox in 1871, said that if the advice of the Mayor, which he had supported, had been followed, there would not have been half a dozen cases in the Town. The spread of the disease was in a great measure due to the action of the Members of the University listening to advice which was bad advice. He thought the Members of the University should have been called upon to pay the expense. Mr. Hussey's amendment was carried. At the Board, March 1883, the Report was considered. Mr. Hussey said the report was a recommendation for building a Hospital for cases of Fever. Small-pox was only incidentally mentioned in it. The question of providing for cases of Small-pox was settled 13 years ago; and a Hospital was built for that purpose. It had become necessary to move from the spot where the Hospital had stood so long; and a piece of land had been bought at Cold Harbor for the purpose of building an other Hospital for cases of Small-pox. The Board had referred the question of the kind of building to be put there to a Committee. How far the report of the Committee was an answer to the enquiry, the members of the Board would judge. He thought they should call the attention of the Committee to the question which had been referred to them. It was not actually pressing; for in 10 years there had only been five cases in the district, — the last being in 1881. But there was no reason why it should be delayed; the question might become pressing at any time. The plan of44 the Committee was too large for Small-pox, and not large enough, if cases of Fever were to be taken, in addition. It was objectionable that patients with Small-pox should be placed in the same building with general cases of Fever, or under the care of the same Nurses and attendants. It was not a settled question whether a Hospital for Small-pox should be a permanent structure, or one only to last for a shorter period, and the materials afterwards burnt and re- placed. It had been suggested to him that the Hospital should be erected on the farm at Sandford. He thought it would be too far to move the patients ; and he looked forward to the prospect of other buildings being wanted there, — as houses of observation, to which families could be removed from infected houses. He concluded by moving ' That the report be referred back to the Committee to consider and report what accommodation is wanted for cases of Small-pox.' After discussion, Mr. Hussey said the principle of admitting cases of Small-pox need not be discussed. It had been settled 13 years ago; and no objection had ever been raised to the Board undertaking the duty of providing for such cases. It was made an objection to the site at Cold Harbor, that there would be delay in moving the patients. He thought that would not happen now. It was a new duty when undertaken 12 years ago. It was better known now; and the means of moving patients were better understood. He did not think the patients would suffer. Vaccination was urged, as though it would supersede the duty in question. As a Medical Practitioner, he was not unobservant of the opposition raised to Vaccination; and he was not without fear that it might tend to the spread of Small-pox, and to render the action of the Board more necessary for the safety of the community. He agreed with Mr. M. that the site in Cold Harbor, which had been bought for a Small-pox Hospital, was objectionable for a Hospital for cases of Fever. But the question now before the Board was providing only for cases of Small-pox. The opinion of Counsel, which had been read, did not touch that question : it referred only to cases of Fever. The motion was lost.45 When the Report was under discussion, Mr. Hussey said that from the opinion given by Counsel it seemed clear that the trusts which had been supposed to exist at the Infirmary for the sick poor could not be enforced by process of law; as the engagements undertaken by the Governors had not been made by formal legal documents. One important matter was therefore settled. It now became a question whether the Board should undertake the care of persons suffering under Fever. There was no duty on the subject which could be enforced by legal process against the Board, any more than in the case of markets, public baths, or other useful works. But the Board had power in all these cases, if they were willing to undertake the duty; and they had not yet had the question before them. If they decided to undertake the duty, it was open to them to agree with the Infirmary, if the In- firmary had the power to make a proper agreement. He thought that it would be to the advantage of the Board to pay a large annual sum for the accommodation, leaving all matters of management and detail to the Infirmary, if the Committee were willing to undertake the office. If such an agreement could be made, he thought that upon making so large a contribution from the rates the ratepayers ought to have a voice in the management, and that the Board should name a certain number of the members of the Committee. Failing such an arrangement, the question arose of building a Hospital. If this should be at Cold Harbor, he thought that the piece of ground which had been bought was not enough, and that more land should be obtained before they began to build. Besides^ where would they, in that case, put the patients with Small-pox ; for they ought not to be under the same roof, or under the care of the same attendants. He thought the size of the Hospital should be considered; that is, whom did they propose to admit ? — all classes of paying patients, or only those 'without proper lodging and accom- modation ?' What kinds of Fever should be taken ? — only continued Fever, as Typhus and Typhoid, or Scarlet Fever, Erysipelas, and even Measles. What medical attendance should be provided? Was the Board to provide that, or should the patients name their own medical attendant ? The46 same of nurses. The friends of patients might be admitted to attend as nurses; if so, more accommodation would be required. The Steward would be an important Officer; and much accommodation would be wanted for his department. He thought an estimate of the probable yearly outlay should be given before they decided upon the question ; and he proposed that the further consideration of the Report be put off till the next meeting. Upon a motion proposed that the question should be adjourned for two months, Mr. Hussey repeated that the question whether they should establish a Hospital for cases of Fever had never been before the Board. He was a member of a Committee, to which some of the questions had been referred. But the Committee did not meet; and he had not the power to call them together. The Report now before the Board was from a Committee consisting of 14 members; and if more than 5 joined in it, he did not know who they were. As a member of the Committee, he could say that they never considered the question referred to them; and when he pointed out that the question was only for cases of Small-pox, the Committee refused to go into that. He had supposed formerly that there was a legal obligation on the Board to provide for these cases of Fever; but he had lately been informed that there was no such duty which could be enforced by legal process. The Chairman had spoken of a ' moral obligation.' He thought the less they heard of ' moral obligations' from Governors of the Infirmary the better. Was there no moral obligation on them who held 5 acres of land, and ;f50,000 funded capital, for the use of the sick poor ? was there no ' moral obligation' on the University, with so many of their members scattered about the town in lodgings? They had been inspecting lodgings, and ordering work to be done; but they did nothing for the sick. While the public schools, and many private schools, had a separate house to which they could send their pupils in case of sickness, the University, with an income between ;^300,000 and ^400,000, had nothing of the kind. He had brought the subject under the notice of the Vice- Chancellor eight years ago; but nothing was done. The47 Governors of the Infirmary and the members of the Uni- versity had determined that a Hospital should be built for the poor, that the members of the University might have the Infirmary for their own use; and the ratepayers were to be charged with the expense, — in fact, for the relief of the University Chest. A question had been raised whether the shareholders in the tramways were entitled to vote upon questions affecting the tramways; but no question was raised whether members of the University should vote upon a question which affected their pockets. The Motion was lost, and the Report was approved. [283.] To Professor Prestwich. Thanks for your paper, — On the water-supply. The subject is always of interest to me. Your paper has told me much that I never knew before. Without venturing to attach a definite meaning to the phrase, — 'the present defective sanitary conditions of the supply,'—repeated over and over, in varying words, till people at a distance have come to believe in it, I can not say that I have seen any proof offered that the health of the people here suffers from drinking the water supplied by the City. For the last 6 or 7 years I have not myself drank any other water. April 1885. [265-8.] To Dr. Thorne. Since you were here, I have referred to the Report of the Local Government Board. If I should be upon the Com- mittee, when our new Hospital is built, it might be desirable to examine the Report carefully, and to make myself master of the contents. I can not say there is any one of the plans in the Report which I approve. I have sometimes thought that the art of Hospital-building was among the lost sciences.48 There is a remark of Dr. B., which I am disposed to challenge. He says, ' the experience (of distributing cases of Fever through the wards of General Hospitals,) was tried; but with far greater disaster to the Patients and attendants of the General Hospitals.' Is this true of the Patients? Speaking from memory, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, I do not recall any case of Fever (Scarlet or other,) spreading from a Patient to an other Patient in the Physicians' wards. Are the Hospitals where such a thing has happened as well built and as well managed as St. Bartholomew's ? 21 June, 1883. To THE Same. Thanks for the trouble you have taken, in replying so fully, and giving time, when you are in the full swing of professional work. For about five years,—from 1844 to 1848, — I acted as the only Clerk, and ... if the truth is to be told, ... as much more than Clerk, in Dr. Hue's wards: and, while I saw that almost every new Nurse in our wards, and some in the Surgeons' wards, caught Fever, I do not call to mind any case of Fever, (Scarlet, or other,) spreading in our wards to an other Patient admitted with acute disease. If it did happen, it must have been but seldom. I escaped myself: Dr. Johnstone, my predecessor, caught it, and died. In the Surgeons' wards, — with local injuries, and local diseases,— of course I saw Erysipelas spread, and also Scarlet Fever, and continued Fever sometimes. In private houses I have attended, — as you, no doubt, have, — cases of Fever, which has not spread to others in the house. Why can not the spreading be prevented in a Hospital ? I have looked through the Report on P. with much in- terest. The account of the spreading of Fever is a painful one to read. Is not Fever, of all kinds, more likely to spread in a ' Children's Hospital,'— among the children, and to grown persons ? I should say that three causes want examination, — the construction, the ventilation, and the crowding, (or gathering together,) of the children.49 1. I do not think the * glass and glare' system of' Pavilions' is the best form of Hospital. The light in the wards is too strong for cases of acute disease, — especially when at the feet, as in every bed: at St. Bartholomew's Hospital only half the beds in a ward stand so. The outer walls and the roof are too thin to keep out the cold; and artificial heating is wanted. This (say what you will,) is supplied by shutting the doors and windows, — thus keeping out the fresh air. The distance the Officers have to walk to and from the different parts, leads (I fear,) to a less frequent inspection of the wards. I do not think the numerous covered ways, connecting the ' units,' tend to the circulation of a sufficiency of fresh air : I fear they are often receptacles of very different stuff. 2. I have not seen any arrangement for fresh air so good as that by doors, windows, and fire-places. I have no doubt that a competent ' Resident Medical Officer' is able to keep any ward in his Hospital sweet and warm. But in that large part of the twenty-four hours when he is not in the ward, will the ward be kept in a state to please him ? Will the artificial system be kept in working order by the Nurses and servants generally attending in our Hospitals ? 3. Is a large collection of Children desirable, — whether at school, in Hospital, or at an Exhibition? 'Nature' allows the collection only to the extent to which one Mother can bear them. If more are brought together, — especially when sick, — is not the collection itself a source of danger, and one wanting more than usual care ? Upon construction generally, I have heard an objection to double walls with space inside, that the joists pass into the hollow, and when the timber shrinks, the air from the hollow passes into the room under the skirting-board. The outer walls should be built strong enough to bear a floor above, — in case it should hereafter be wanted. The additional thick- ness will help to warm the wards, by keeping off the outer atmosphere. No window, as far as I have seen, keeps out the cold so well as the English 'sash/—or, indeed, lets in fresh air so readily. At Littlemore, Mr. Ley had some windows made with three sashes in the frame; each sash of full size. Any E50 two of them could shut the ' window'; yet an opening could be left for air, without the rain entering, though a storm beat against them. The outer cold was kept off, and the tempera- ture could be regulated: they wanted very little attention, and the attendants had no trouble with them. No doubt the ceiling should be flat, i. e. without projecting decoration: but the angle, where the wall meets the ceiling, should not be left: the foul air will be stagnant there. A cornice can be put, without furnishing a shelf for dust. I do not object to cleaning the floor by wiping it with a wet flannel. I think it better than retaining the dirt by ' dry-rubbing': and I do not object to the walls being plastered and painted. It is cheaper than ' Parian,' and, I think, as healthful. 26 June 1883. THE RADCLIFFE INFIRMARY. [308-311.] To THE Secretary to the Charity Commissioners. By a notice in the Oxford University Gazette of this week it appears that the University who are the Trustees of the funded Capital of the Radcliffe Infirmary, are about to trans- fer to the Official Trustees of the Commissioners, a sum of ;£'1,215 14^. 10^/., — 3 per cent. Consolidated Stock, in dis- charge of the Lancashire Fund. The figures given are the exact amount of cash which was paid in May 1870, to the Radcliffe Infirmary by the Trustees of the Lancashire Fund. I take the liberty of submitting for the consideration of the Commissioners, that if Stock is to be now transferred as the equivalent of the Fund, it ought to be according to the value at the time the Fund was paid over to the Infirmary, — i.e. 94^ per cent.; and that the amount of Stock transferred ought to be more in amount, accordingly; — and that a further sum ought also to be transferred to the Official Trustees, on account of the interest received in the past eleven years by the Governors of the Infirmary, without having been applied to the purposes of the Trust. 3 February 1882.51 [294-308. 321,9. 341. 360. 376.] At the Quarterly Court in April 1864, Mr. S., the Treasurer, proposed that £4^20 should be taken from a fund in hand, — the produce of Life-Subscriptions and donations, — and be added to what he called ' the Income of the House.' He stated that ^900 would still remain in hand. In the Report for 1864, it is stated that this Fund, — arising from Life Sub- scriptions and legacies under ;^100, — had existed for some years, and during the past year had advanced to £909. The special attention of the Governors was afterwards called to this Surplus by a Notice given by Mr. S. At the Court following, I pointed to that notice, still remaining in the Committee Room, in confirmation of the statement I made of there being such a surplus. I once proposed at a Quar\;erly Court that an account should be prepared, showing the balance in the Treasurer's hands on certain days, — the 1st and 15th of each month: the Governors present would not entertain the question. In the Report for 1869 it is stated that the Receits had exceeded the expenditure by about ;^600; and a Balance in hand of ^675 is mentioned in one of the tables at the end of the Report. In the Report for 1871, this balance appears as ;^677: in 1874 it is ;^463 ; in 1875 it is ;^357 ; and 1877 it is ;£"506. I am not sure that the sums stated in the tables are correct, as showing the amount of cash in hand at the end of the different years. In December 1874, the account at the Bankers was overdrawn, by a sum under £6. At the Court in June 1878, Dr. Acland said that over ;^25,000 had been spent in building in the last 30 years : but they had a greater amount of invested Stock at that moment, than when the improvements were begun. In the Report for 1878, appears a new item, — 'Cash at the Bankers, 31 December, 1878,-^:150.' At the Court in April 1880, Mr. S. said that in the course of the last year, they had funded ^^1,600 or ;^1,700. One of the Auditors said that there was ^5,000 more in the 3 per cents, than when he became a Governor. E 252 After Mr. S. ceased to be Treasurer, an item appears in the Report of each year, —' Cash at the Bankers.' In 1883 it is £907; in 1884 the amount is £527 : the correct sums, I think, were ^719 in 1883 ; and ;^1,466 in 1884. In 1885 the sum in the Report is ;£"1082; and in 1886 it is ;^1,411. In April 1886, the Treasurer told the Governors there was ;^2,450 at the Bankers. The words ' deficit' and ' embarrassment,' and the phrases ' adverse balance' and ' financial difficulty' have a wonderful effect on many of those who read them, without knowing how figures are put together, and such things made. There are not often persons at a Charitable Institution who ask what amount of cash the Treasurer has in his hands, nor whether there is a sufficit^ for the work of the House. [263-6.] In a Memoir of the Cholera in Oxford in 1854, by Dr. Acland, are some remarks upon the introduction of gas into the Radcliffe Infirmary ; and that a protest against its intro- duction without ventilating tubes was signed by the Physicians, and two of the Surgeons. One of the Physicians withdrew his signature afterwards; and one of the Surgeons told me that, when the paper was sent to him for signature, he signed it in the belief that he should have an explanation of the subject afterwards. He, and the other Surgeon who signed it, were afterwards most urgent that the gas should be introduced into the wards with- out delay, whether with ventilating tubes, or without. It was then introduced into the Surgeons' wards : but not into the Physicians' wards till after the publication of the Memoir.53 [265. 304.] To THE Committee of Management, Radcliffe Infirmary. In answer to the request of the Committee, — That the Medical Officers be requested to inspect the new Fever wards, and report thereon, — I beg leave to submit my opinion, that, before the new Building is used for cases of Fever, the fan- lights over the doors of the wards should be altered so as to turn on a pivot, and form a brattice : — that iron rods should be fixed in the walls over the beds, for curtains, and for cords and pullies; — and that open fire-places should be put in all the wards, instead of close grates and flues. In some cases I observe that arrangements have been made for placing bed- steads too near to the walls. It seems to me that there is too much glass in the outer walls; and that the window-sills in the wards are too low. The fire-places throughout the building are objectionable, from the throat of the chimnies being too low. 11 December 1877. [261,2.] To J. B: B., Esq. Thanks for your paper. Anything about Howard is inter- esting. Many of the defects to which Howard called attention are, I fear, to be found in the Establishments which are on too large a scale for the superintendance of one person. If you had known as much as I do about the Radcliffe Infirmary, I do not think you would have written what is in your paper. The Sewers condemned by Howard remained, till altered in 1852, on the report of a Committee of which I was Chairman. The Fanlights over the doors remained till about 1848, when some were opened : the rest of them were opened in 1850, — chiefly at my instance, to turn on a pivot so as to form a brattice. If you look at my Miscell. Med. Chir. p. 271, you will see that I called attention to the Kitchen E354 in 1865. The Beds remained sideways along the walls, shut off from one an other by wooden partitions: the last of the partitions were removed after I was appointed Surgeon. At that time many of the large window-sashes did not open. The ^ ventilators over the windows,' are, I suppose, the small holes on the inside, — opening by some indirect way to the outside. Some were undoubtedly open : for I have heard of a bird falling through into the ward. But others were blocked. I was never satisfied that they let fresh air into the ward, or let the foul air out. With this I venture to send you a volume of my work. You will find how much I labored in the cause: and though not without some success, yet not a full measure of it. 13 May 1885. [7. 60. 274. 281. 290. 330. 344. 367. 371.] The Register of Operations, — as well as the Register of Admissions, and the Register of Deaths, — was kept carefully and properly by Mr. Briscoe, during the time he was the House-Surgeon : and I believe the Register of Operations to be a faithful record of that part of the practise of the Surgeons. I do not give the same praise to the manner in which the Registers were afterwards kept. When the Rules for consult- ations were altered in 1860, additional particulars of the cases under operation were ordered by the Governors to be added to the Reports in the Register. The first operation which came under the Rules, was in a case under my care. I drew out the notes of the case, for registry in the terms required by the new Rules; and I gave the paper to the House- Surgeon to be entered in the Register. I found afterwards that he had not done as I desired : instead of entering the case, as was his duty under my directions, he had put in the book a report of the case, which he had prepared himself without communication with me. On an occasion when the Committee were making enquiry into the circumstances of some late cases, my attendance was desired ; and the Chairman read to me, from the Register of55 Operations, the report of a case entered by the House-Surgeon. I said to him that it was a very extraordinary document; I had not seen it, or heard of it before: and that I did not acknowlege myself in any way bound by it. No further question was asked of me. [235. 253,9. 306. 315,7,9. 320,1,9. 341. 362,4. 375,6. 383,4,5. 403.] To J. T., Esq. If you lived in a City with a University within its walls, many things, I do not doubt, would be clear which at a distance are in a haze. Few things can be long managed in harmony by a mixture of those who are of it and those who are not of it. There is not the public opinion which in London supports, — and controls, — the Officers and the Managers of Public Institutions. Rigid discipline and adhesion to supposed * Rules' is out of the question, when there is no paramount authority to enforce them. No ' Medical Committee' has ever been allowed to act, — or to meet. The Profession of Medicine is not of an exalted character. An other learned profession takes rank above it; and does not well ' bear a Brother near the throne.' The House-Surgeon is an Under- graduate,— a Member of the University body. Surely his studies are of more importance than such minor matters as you and I would expect from him ! Ours is the only Hospital, as far as I know, where he is exempted from such. 16 April 1876. To THE Clerk of the Council, Privy Council Office. Some of the Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary are about to present a Petition to the Crown to grant a Charter of Incorporation. Throughout the Petition they put it as their case that the Trusts of the Endowment are for a Public Hospital for the Sick and Infirm Poor. Yet the fact is that now and for some time past, the benefits of the Charity have been refused to many sick and infirm persons, being poor and56 real objects of Charity, while admission has been given to other persons, — Members of the University and others,— who have no claim either by reason of their pecuniary circum- stances, or the sickness under which they are laboring. The Radclifife Infirmary seems to be one of the endowments to which the remarks lately made in Parliament by the President of the Board of Trade apply, — that there is going on a transfer of property from the Poor to the Rich. From the terms of the Petition it might be thought that the land with which the Charity is endowed consists of the whole of what was given upon the first foundation. The fact is that two pieces of the ground have been given away by the Trustees, — one in 1835 for a Church and Church-yard, and an other piece in 1845 for a School-house. The funded Capital is held by the University as the Trustees, without any deed or written Declaration of Trust: and while the Trustees are bound to pay over the annual proceeds to the Governors of the Infirmary, it is generally understood that, in such a case, the Trustees are bound to hold the Capital without diminution: the University have on several occasions made a sale of large sums, which have not been replaced. I venture most respectfully to submit for the consideration of the Council, that the Trustees of the land ought to make good the full value of the land as originally conveyed to them ; and that the University, as the Trustees of the funded Capital, ought to replace the money to the full amount of what they have ever held; — and that this should be done before they are released from their Trusts under the proposed new Charter. 2 June 1884. To THE SAME. Referring to my letter of the 2nd of June, and to yours in reply of the 14th of June, — I see by a note in one of the Medical Journals that a Petition from some of the Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary has since been presented ; and that it is to be taken into consideration on the 25th of September.57 Assuming this to be the case, I trust I am not doing wrong in begging the favor that my letter of the 2nd of June may be laid before the Council; — and that, before advising the Crown to grant the Prayer of the petitioning Governors, the attention of the Council may be given to the Trusts of the original endowment in favor of the Sick and Infirm Poor, — and that no powers will be granted, under which the Governors of the Infirmary will be able to set those Trusts aside. Con- sidering the large remission of public taxes which is made in favor of the Infirmary, — Income tax, fire insurance, window tax, inhabited house duty, — and of local taxes, water, gas, and parish rates, — I venture most respectfully to submit that others beside the petitioning Governors have a claim on the attention of the Council. 19 August 1884. » To Dr. Brooks. In answer to your enquiry, — I can not tell who did the surgery of the thorax, — or, indeed, of other regions, — in cases under the Physicians. It was not done by me. The aspirator came into use late in my attendance. I used it in some cases of my own; but never in a case under any of the Physicians. Once I was asked to see a case under one of them, of effusion into the pleura, in which the question of aspiration had arisen before my visit. Next day I was told that the House-Surgeon had done the aspiration; he having been told by the Physician that he might do it. In one case, in the presence of one of the Physicians, I made an opening in the front of the chest, to let out purulent matter presenting there ; and (if I remember right), I made a second opening afterwards in the side. But this was before the general use of the aspirator. The Patient, a boy, had been without treatment in an out-of-the-way place at a distance. It was a case of urgency; and whether admitted under me, or the Physician, I do not now remember.58 As to paracentesis abdo^ninis, I performed the operation twice during my 28 years of office ; and on one of the occasions the Nurse offered me a dirty trocar and cannula, as the instru- ment recommended by the Physician. Forgive me, — many years your senior, — if I add my opinion that the Medical Officers can not work together in harmony in a Public Institution, where such things et diet potuisse et non potuisse refelli. 19 February 1887. •Jf- -J?- -x- -Jf ^ ■5{- ^ -Jf -x- -Jf •x- -x- -x-By the same Author, Miscellanea Medico-Chirurgica ;—Cases in Practice, Reports, Letters, and Occasional Papers. 1882. Accidents, in the absence of the Medical Oflacer;—A Lecture delivered to the Volunteers of the City of Oxford. Second Edition. 1866. Extracts from Various Authors ; and Fragments of Table-talk, Second Edition. 1883.