/ X/ A HILDA’S ‘WHERE IS IT?” OF RECIPES.V & \ 4HILDA’S "WHERE IS IT? OF RECIPES. CONTAINING, AMONGST OTHER PRACTICAL AND TRIED RECIPES, MANY OLD CAPE, INDIAN, AND MALAY DISHES AND PRESERVES; ALSO DIRECTIONS FOR POLISHING FURNITURE, CLEANING SILK, etc., AND A COLLECTION OF HOME REMEDIES IN CASE OF SICKNESS. BY HILDAGONDA J. DUCKITT. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited. 1891.5 03~7 CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE PRESS. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. GlTH. J. D., Wynberg, Cape of Good Hope.INTRODUCTION. It was at the suggestion of some friends in England— who had spent a few years at the Cape, and who have ever since shown a kindly interest in South Africa—that I have collected some homely and old-fashioned recipes from relations and friends, and from practical housewives some simple and dainty dishes. I trust that to some old friends in England my little book may bring back recollections of days spent at the Cape; and to my country cousins and far-off friends in South Africa—who, in the rush of life, have not found leisure to copy their mothers’ and grandmothers’ old recipe- books—this collection may prove useful. Few Colonial cooks of the present day understand the art of cooking ; it is therefore absolutely necessary for the lady of the house to know something about it, so that she can direct them. Let us look at some of the simplest terms. Simmering (to bring as near as possible to boiling without letting it boil) is one of the great difficulties. Cooks will not remember how much depends on slow cooking. Hashes, Curries, “ Bredees,” etc., etc., must simmer.INTRODUCTION. viii Fry the onion with the meat, a light brown (ffsmoor/5 as Cape cooks say). This must be done rather quickly; then the meat must simmer with whatever ingredient you like to add. The old Cape families of Dutch descent, who had Malay and Indian cooks, and many of French descent, understood the art of ROASTING. They roast their Chickens, Partridges, Quail, Wild Duck, Venison, etc., not in an oven, but in a flat, round pot, about five and a half inches deep (Dutch baking-pot), with a raised lid. The meat is put into the pot with, say, half a pint of water, and the pot is put on the stove. About half an hour afterwards some live coals are put on the lid, and just before the joint or chicken begins to brown it is basted well with a little butter or dripping. Half an hour before serving the cook should pour half a tumbler of red wine, well mixed with a small dessertspoonful of flour, over the joint or chicken, while giving the gravy a good stir. This gives a delicious flavour to any Poultry or Venison. A leg of Mutton done in a Dutch baking-pot in this way is very good. In BOILING meat, a leg of Mutton, or Chicken, etc., be very careful that the water boils when you put it in, and then let it simmer. The meat will be tender and juicy— this is my experience. Boil all green Vegetables—viz., Peas, Cabbage, GreenIX INTRODUCTION. Beans, etc.—in an open saucepan; put them into boiling water, into which a teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of carbonate of soda has been added. This is the American mode of cooking vegetables. The Peas, Beans, etc., will be beautifully green and delicate. Broiling is the most primitive way of cooking, and it is best understood by our country folk. It is, nevertheless, one of the most appetising ways of cooking a Mutton Chop ; and any one who has travelled in South Africa will remember how good was the “ Sasatie ” (Kabob) or tender “ Carbonatje ” (Mutton Chop), steaming hot from the gridiron on wood coals, or two-pronged fork held against the coals. Some kinds of fish broiled are very good, such as the Cape “ Harder Hottentot Fish ” or “ SnoekA STEWING is a very easy and economical way of cook- ing. First stew the meat and Onions together, with a very little water, till nice and tender and slightly brown ; then add Cauliflower, Green Beans, Potatoes, or any vegetable you like. This should be done in a flat pot, not a deep saucepan. Meat and vegetables done in this way are called by the Malay cook a “ Bredee.” Add a red chilli cut small, or a few pieces of it. In Frying P'ish, Cutlets, etc., be very careful that the lard or clarified dripping in which you do it is boiling. Do not forget to dust your fish with flour, and dip it intoX INTRODUCTION. an egg and bread-crumbs, before putting it into the frying- pan. The tail of the native Cape sheep—which is composed entirely of fat, and often weighs five or six pounds—when minced and melted out, supplies the Cape housewife with a very good substitute for lard ; is excellent for frying fish or Fritters in ; it is more delicate than lard, and eaten on hot toast, with pepper and salt, is a good imitation of marrow. Always dry any pieces of stale white bread you have, cutting off the crust; pound in a mortar, and keep in a tin closed up, ready for dusting Rissoles or Cutlets before frying. Preserves.—In making Marmalades and Jams always oil the preserving-pan with the best Lucca Oil, to prevent the jam from burning. If dry sugar is used for preserving, keep the pot closed till the sugar is dissolved, stirring occasionally. When the sugar is melted, jams should boil briskly. In preserving fruit, such as Figs, Citrons, etc., boil very slowly—simmer, in fact. Under the head of “INVALID COOKERY” will be found good recipes for Beef Tea, etc.; and under “ Home Remedies/’ some homely cures for Burns, Rheumatism, etc. The Recipes that follow are arranged in alphabetical order according to the class of dish to which they belong.INTRODUCTION. xi For instance, for Beef Fritters, look under the heading of “ Fritters”; for “Berg River Cake,” see “Cakes,” etc. A few blank pages have been left at the end of each letter of the alphabet, in which the owner of this little “ Where Is It ? ” can enter any new recipes she or he may come across, and think worth preserving. Farewell! and “ smakelyk eten ” ! H. J. D. October, 1890.HILDA’S “WHERE IS IT?” OF RECIPES. A. t n / ANCHOVIES ON TOAST. Toast some slices of bread before a sharp fire, butter well, and cut into pieces one and a half inches square, lay on each piece a slice of hard-boiled egg and a boned anchovy. Sprinkle over the whole chopped parsley, and stand it for ten minutes in the oven. Serve on a hot dish with water- cress round. APPLES (a nice way of cooking). % Wipe the apples, but do not peel them, core, quarter, and cut into slices. Have ready some syrup, made in the pro- portions of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boiled quickly for five minutes—either moist or crystallised sugar. Throw the apples into the boiling syrup, boil rapidly for one hour, reckoning from its first boiling up—stir frequently. It should then be clear, and jellied, and stiff. The rapid boiling drives off the watery particles in steam. Allow one pound of sugar to half-a-dozen apples. Cloves, cinnamon, or lemon-peel, may be added to taste. B i4 A] APPLES (STEWED)—APRICOTS (DRIED)—ASPIC STEWED APPLES AND CUSTARD. Ingredients. 8 good-sized Apples. 4 Cloves. I pint Water. \ lb. Sugar. The rind of half a Lemon. ^ pint Custard. (See CUSTARD. i doz. Almonds. Pare and core the apples, but do not divide them, and, if possible, leave on the stalks ; boil the sugar and water for ten minutes, then put into the syrup with lemon-rind and cloves, simmer gently till tender. Do not let them break. Then reduce the syrup by boiling quickly, let it cool a little, then pour over the apples. Have ready half a pint of thick custard, pour round the apples. Lastly, stick into the apples one dozen almonds, blanched and cut into strips. Takes twenty to thirty minutes to stew. This quantity will fill a large glass dish. Sort fine ripe apricots, lay them for a few hours in salt water, then let them dry ; the next day press them quite flat between your hands. If the sun is very hot they will dry in three or four days. Lay them, when quite dry, in lime-water (see LlME Water) for five minutes, take out and wipe, rub them well with white crystallised sugar. Pack into a jar with lots of sugar in between. Ready to be eaten in a few days. A very nice sweetmeat. APRICOTS, DRIED AND SALTED. {Commonly called “MebosL) APRICOTS.—See also Peaches in Brandy. ASPIC—See Jelly.N 0 .B. BEEF A LA MODE. Ingredients. io lb. Round of Beef (the bone A teaspoon of Ginger, Mace, Allspice, Cloves, and Coriander Seeds (altogether). taken out] j 2 teaspoons of Salt. 2 teaspoons of Fine Pepper, i oz. Fine Saltpetre. A tablespoon of Vinegar. Strips of Fat Bacon for larding. Tablespoon of Brown Sugar. Hang the beef till quite tender. The day before cook- ing, spread over it a mixture of the above spices, moistened with vinegar. The next day fill the hole where the bone was taken out with a highly seasoned stuffing of bread- crumbs, suet, parsley, thyme, and a few shreds of onion ; skewer, and roll a good shape; lard with strips of fat bacon. Put it on a small tripod on a baking-dish into the oven. Baste the meat continually with a little lard and gravy. Half an hour before the meat is done, pour over it half a tumbler of red wine into which a spoonful of flour has been stirred. This is excellent cold, and takes four or five hours to cook. ' i ANOTHER RECIPE FOR BEEF A LA MODE. (A nice way of stewing beef. An old “ Constantia” Recipe.) Slightly brown the onions in butter or dripping. Skewer the meat, if a round ; but it may be any other part—ribs, etc. Ingredients. 6 lb. or 8 lb. of Round of Beef. 3 large Onions. 8 or to Cloves, Allspice, Pepper. J a tumbler of Wine and Vinegar or Tomato Sauce. A few Bay Leaves and some Carrots.10 B] BEEF FRITTERS—BEEF STEAK (BROILED). Lay the onions on the top. Put it in a Dutch baking- pot {see p. viii.) with spices, vinegar, etc., and let all simmer for two hours, basting occasionally. It should be a nice brown. If it should want a little gravy, add some stock and half a cup of tomato sauce. BEEF FRITTERS.—See Fritters. BEEF OLIVES. (Mrs. Jackson’s Recipe.) Cut rump steaks into strips three or four inches long, quarter of an inch thick. Sprinkle with fine bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, thyme; roll up, tie with a thread. Fry some onions in butter or fat; add to this one pint of water and some bay leaves. Stew the beef gently for an hour. Just before serving, remove the thread and dredge the gravy with some brown flour to thicken. BEEF {SPICED). (Mrs. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 15 lb. Centre Ribs of Beef. 2 oz. Saltpetre. ij lb. Salt. 2 oz. Cloves. Jib. Sugar. 20Z. Allspice. 2 doz. Coriander Seeds. Bruise these spices. Moisten all the ingredients with a cup of vinegar; rub well into the beef; let it remain five or six days in the mixture. Boil gently for five hours. Take care to let the water boil when you put in the meat. BEEF STEAK {BROILED). Take a nice tender steak, about half an inch thick, and beat with a wooden kitchen mallet, to make it tender. Heat the gridiron on wood coals, and rub the bars with fat or butter. Sprinkle the steak with pepper and salt; turn frequently. Takes about ten minutes. Serve imme- diately it is done—-with a sauce made with some ketchup, or tomato sauce, and a lump of butter—very hot.BEEF STEAK (STEWED)—BLANCMANGE. [B 11 BEEF STEAK (STE WED). Ingredients. 2 lb. of Steak. Tomato Sauce. i oz. Butter. Pepper, Salt. i Onion. A teaspoonful of Brown Flour. Fry the steak quickly in butter, then put in a stewpan with half a pint of water, one onion, and all the above ingredients—a little cayenne. Cover the pan close, having warmed the water before adding the meat (and the onion to be browned also before adding). Stew all gently for an hour. Thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour. Enough for six people. “BILTONGS (An old Cape way of curing and drying meat.) Take about six or eight pounds of beef, cut out in a long tongue-shape, out of the hind leg of an ox, from the thigh-bone down to the knee-joint. There are two such pieces in each leg, being quite encased in a fleecy skin. Take this meat, which is quite free from sinew or fat, first rub it with a little salt, and an hour after rub in well half a pound of salt, ditto brown sugar, and an ounce of salt- petre. Leave for three days, rubbing and turning every day ; then put it under a press for a night. Have it dried in the wind, and then hung in the chimney till it is dry and pretty firm. When eaten, it is to be cut into very thin slices—or rasped. Invalids like this way best; in fact, with bread and butter, “ Biltong ” is most appetising and nourishing ; and, on board ship, people suffering from mal de mer have relished this when no other delicacy would tempt them to eat. BLANCMANGE. Ingredients. 6d. packet Gelatine. Juice of 3 Lemons. Breakfast-cup of Milk or Cream. 3 good tablespoonfuls of Sugar. Yolks of 3 Eggs. 3 cups of Milk. Soak the gelatine in a cup of milk. Boil the rest of the milk; stir in the yolks carefully—the gelatine, lemon,B] “BLATJANG”—BLOATER TOAST—“ BOBOTEE.” sugar. Whisk the whites ; stir into the mixture after it has boiled once. Remove from the fire ; put into a buttered mould. Make over-night. Enough for four or five. “BLATJANG” (Malay. Appetising condiment.) Ingredients. A handful of Red Chillies, ground 2 Onions. fine. 2 tiny pieces of Garlic. 40 Sweet Almonds. 2 Lemon or Bay Leaves. A tablespoon of Apricot Jam. (All mixed up together.) A teaspoon of Salt. 2 tablespoons of Lemon Juice. Mix all well together. This condiment should be made fresh as required. BLOATER TOAST. Ingredients. 1 teaspoonful of Bloater Paste. 1 Tablespoonful of Cream, or Rich Milk. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Sauce. 1 oz. of Butter. A little Cayenne. Put these ingredients in a small jam-pot. Place the pot in a saucepan of boiling water; stir till it becomes a thick custard. Spread on buttered toast—crust cut off. Sufficient for two. “ BO BOTEE.” (A delicate Indian minced curry. Malay or Indian. My mother’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 lb. of Meat. 2 tablespoons of Curry Powder. 2 Onions. . A dessertspoon of Sugar. A large slice of White Bread. Juice of a Lemon, or 2 table- 1 cup of Milk. spoons of Vinegar. 2 Eggs. 6 or 8 Almonds. Lump of Butter. Mince the meat, soak the bread in milk, and squeeze out dry. Fry the onions in a tablespoonful of butter (drip- ping will do). Mix all the ingredients—curry powder, sugar, salt, vinegar, etc., etc.—with the fried onion. Now mix all13 BRAWN—BREAKFAST DISEIES—BREAD (BROWN). [B with the meat and soaked bread. Mix one egg with the mixture, whisk the other with some milk, and pour over the whole, after being put into a buttered pie-dish or into little cups (the old Indian way), with a lemon or bay leaf stuck into each little cup. Put them in the oven to bake, and send to table in the cups or pie-dish. Serve with rice. (This dish is equally good made of cold mutton.) One ounce of tamarinds soaked in half a pint of boiling water, then strained, and the juice used for Bobotee, Sasaties, and Curries instead of vinegar, gives a very pleasant acid flavour. BRA IVN. 12 Sheep's Feet. J bottle of Vinegar. 12 Allspice. About 24 Peppercorns. Ingredients. A tablespoonful Coriander Seeds. The Spices to e tied up in a muslin bag. . 3 or 4 Bay Leaves. 3 Red Chillies. Boil the sheep’s feet quite tender, and when cold and firmly jellied remove the fat and bones. Boil with the spices and vinegar for an hour. Pour into moulds. Little pieces of sheep’s tongue may be cut up in it. BREAKFAST DISHES. See Brawn, Croquettes, Chicken (scalloped), Eggs (curried), Eggs (poached), Eggs (scratched), Fried Bread, Fish, Fritters (Beef, etc.), Ham Toast, Kedgeree, Kidneys, Mushrooms, Omelettes, Oysters (scalloped), Porridge, Rissoles, Rolls, Sausages, Scones. BREAD SAUCE.—See Sauce. BREAD (BROWN). (Our old “ Groote Post” Recipe. Cape.) Take about six pounds of meal, pour into it three cups of home-made yeast (see Yeast), and as much tepid water as will make it the consistency of dough. Knead it well for a quarter of an hour, till your hand comes clean14 B] “ BREDEE ”—“ BOONTJES BREDEE.” out of the dough. Set it to rise in the pan in which you have mixed it, and cover it up well. Put in the warmest corner of the kitchen. It will be ready for making into loaves in two hours, and will then have a rather dis- agreeable odour and feel quite spongy. Six pounds of meal will just fill an ordinary baking-pan for a moderate- sized stove oven. Keep the stove well heated, and when it has been in the oven for an hour turn the baking-tin round. Bread made in this way is generally very sweet and wholesome. “BREDEE* (A favourite Cape Stew. Malay.) Take two pounds of thick rib of mutton, or in ordering four pounds of cutlet meat, take all that is rejected after carefully cutting and paring the cutlets. Take this meat, out in small pieces, put into a stewing-pot with two onions cut small. Let the meat and onion fry to a nice brown— don't burn. A rather quick fire is required for browning onions. Take one dozen or more large tomatoes, cut in slices or pass through a mincing machine. If the tomatoes are not quite ripe add a teaspoonful of sugar, salt, a small piece of red chilli; let the tomato and meat stew gently; if watery, remove the lid of pot till there is a rich thick gravy. Bredees are not to be made in deep saucepans, but in flat pots, as they would be too watery in the former. Meat can be done with any vegetable in this way. Cauliflower, potato, vegetable marrow, makes good Bredee. “BOONTJES BREDEEIf (Dry Bean Stew. Cape or Malay.) Take one pound of ribs of mutton, the fat part; set on the fire with a small onion cut in rings to brown slightly ; then add a pint of water, about two or three cups of dry beans. If the beans are old, parboil them[B BRINE—BRUSHES—BUTTER SCOTCH. for half an hour; strain through a cullender and add to the meat. Stew till nice and tender for an hour or two. Add a red chilli, cut up. This is a favourite Cape dish. Any kind of dry bean done in this way is very nice. BRINE FOR TONGUE OR BEEF. Ingredients. 6 tablespoonfuls of Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of Brown Sugar, x tablespoonful of Saltpetre. 2 cups of Water. A few Bay Leaves. Pour over a tongue or lump of beef after having been rough-salted. BRUSHES {FOR WASHING). Brushes should be washed in cold water and soda (to a quart of water a teaspoonful of washing soda) ; never left to soak. Shake the water out well, and dry in the sun or near the fire. BUTTER SCOTCH. Ingredie7its. J lb. Butter. 1 lb. Sugar. I J a tea-cup of Water. Boil till quite thick. Pour on to a buttered dish, and cut into squares.VcC 2c. 21 CASHMERE {TO CLEAN BLACK). Dissolve one ounce of ammonia in half a gallon of water. Lay the cashmere in it for half an hour; dip up and down, rub any dirty places ; hang to drain, and when still damp, iron on the wrong side. w*ah: Milk and soot rubbed on black straw hats and bonnets revives them wonderfully. CAKE {ALMOND). (Mrs. Versfeld’s old Dutch Recipe.) Ingredients. i lb. Almonds blanched and pounded 12 Eggs. with Rose Water. 5 Tablespoonfuls of Finest Pounded 1 oz. Bitter Almonds. Biscuit. 1 lb. Loaf Sugar (sifted). (500 Almonds go to a lb.) Blanch and pound the almonds, beat up the yolks of the eggs, mix with the sugar; then add alternately the whites and almonds, then the biscuit. Bake in a well- buttered mould for an hour and a half in a moderate oven, with a buttered paper over the mould. Very good. CAKE {BERG RIVER). (Mrs. Melck’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 7 Eggs. 25 Sweet Almonds. Their weight in Sugar. xo Bitter Almonds. The weight of 3 Eggs in Flour. Some Citron Preserve. 1 Lemon. Whisk the eggs to a froth, the whites and sugar to be mixed first, then the yolks and other ingredients. Bake in buttered mould for one hour. Good.22 C] CAKE (BIRTHDAY—BUTTERMILK—CHOCOLATE). CAKE {BIRTHDAY). (Mrs. Andrews’ Recipe.) Ingredients. i lb. of Finest Flour. | lb. Sugar, jp lb. Butter, i lb. Currants. J lb. Chopped Raisins. J lb. Almonds blanched and cut small. J lb. Candied Preserves. 7 Eggs. i Glass of Brandy. A few Cloves, Cinnamon, Nutmeg, and Ginger. Beat the butter to a cream, mix with sugar, then eggs, yolks first, then whites, then flour, currants, etc. ; mix all very well. Bake in well-buttered mould for two hours, with buttered paper over, in moderate oven. CAKE (jBUTTERMILK). (A cheap, homely Cake.) Ingredients. 5 cups Flour. 2 cups Sugar, i cup Currants. 1 tablespoon Butter. 2 teaspoons Carbonate of Soda. 1 bottle Buttermilk. 2 tablespoons Cinnamon. Some “ Naartje ” (Tangerine Orange) Peel. Vanilla Essence may be used instead. Mix the butter and sugar ; then mix with the flour the spices, soda, and currants. Stir in alternately a little flour and buttermilk. Have ready buttered moulds. Bake in a moderately quick oven. CAKE (CHOCOLATE). Ingredients. Whites of 7 Eggs. i lb. Sugar. J lb. Grated Chocolate. Whisk the whites stiffly, mix with sugar and chocolate, first roll the chocolate and sugar together; drop on a well- buttered paper. Let it stand for an hour to dry before putting into the oven, which is not to be quite so warm. Bake about ten minutes. When quite cold remove from the paper.C CAKE (COCOANUT—MRS. FAURE’S—GENOA). 23 CAKE (COCOANUT). (Mrs. Ried of Swellendam’s Recipe.) Ingredients. i Large or 2 Small Cocoanuts. 1 lb. Loaf Sugar. 6 Eggs. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar; add the yolks well beaten, then the whites whisked to a froth, then the flour. When ready for the oven stir in the cocoanut. Bake for one hour and a half with paper over the mould. J lb. Butter. 5 lb. Flour. CAKE (MRS. FAURE’S). (Dutch.) Ingredients. 1 lb. Flour. 4 Eggs. 1 lb. Sugar. 1 glass of Milk. i lb. Butter. 1 teaspoonful Soda. 2 teaspoonfuls Cream of Tartar. Any flavouring you like; makes an excellent cake without any. Stir butter to a cream, mix with eggs well beaten, flour, and milk, lastly the soda and cream of tartar. Bake one hour and a half in moderate oven. CAKE (GENOA). Ingredients. h lb. Butter. 10 oz. Flour. 8 oz. Castor Sugar. 4 well-beaten Eggs. 2 lb. Sultana Raisins. 2 oz. Almonds blanched. 2 oz. Mixed Peel. Grated Rind of 1 Lemon. 2 teaspoons of Baking Powder. Stir the butter till it is like cream; mix with it by degrees the eight ounces of sugar, four eggs, yolks and whites beaten up separately; then add ten ounces of flour, half a pound of raisins. Have ready the two ounces of almonds blanched, and lastly the grated rind of oneC] CAKE (GEORGINA’S—GERMAN). 24 lemon, and two teaspoons of baking powder, and the mixed candied peel. Butter the tin and line it with buttered paper, the paper to project half an inch above the rim of the tin. Pour in the mixture, and bake in a cool oven for an hour and a half. Sprinkle a few cut-up almonds over the top. Very good. CAKE (GEORGINA’S). (Aunt Fanny’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 12 Eggs and their weight in Flour. i cup of Currants. i lb. Loaf Sugar. 20 Sweet and 20 Bitter Almonds blanched \ lb. Butter. and sliced. A little Citron Preserve. Stir the butter to a cream, mix with loaf sugar ; whisk whites and yolks separately, mix yolks with sugar and butter, then alternately add the flour and whites, and lastly the currants. Bake with paper over the buttered mould for one and a half hours. Remove the paper and leave for another quarter of an hour. Very good. CAKE {GERMAN). (From Mrs. Van der Riet.) Ingredients. 1 lb. Flour. ^ teaspoon of Soda. 1 lb. White Sugar. 4 Eggs. Jib. Butter. 50 Almonds. bottle of Milk. 1 tea-cup of Crystallised Sugar 1 teaspoon of Cream of Tartar. and Cinnamon. Mix in the ordinary way, and when ready for the oven have ready a flat baking-tin, or several tin plates buttered. Pour this dough into it, and spread thinly over the surface. Have ready the fifty almonds, roughly pounded, with cup of crystallised sugar and tablespoon of cinnamon ; sprinkle thickly over the cake. Bake in moderately quick oven for twenty minutes. Cut into squares or shapes.[C CAKE (GOLDEN—KAYENNE—MADEIRA). 25 CAKE {GOLDEN). Ingredients. J lb. of Butter. lb. White Sugar. 3 cups of Flour. ^ cup of Milk. Essence Yolks of 6 Eggs. White of i Egg. Teaspoon of Cream of Tartar. J teaspoon of Soda, of Almonds, 20 drops. Stir the butter to a cream, mix with sugar; whisk the eggs, add to the sugar and butter, then add flour, lastly the soda and cream of tartar. Put into a buttered mould dusted with fine biscuit. Bake in a moderate oven for one and a half hours. CAKES {KAYENNE). (Colonial. Miss Lizzie Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 lb. Flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of Ground Ginger. ir? lb. very dark Brown Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of Cinnamon. 2 cups of Kayennes (that is the dry 1 tablespoonful of Baking Powder, scraps of any minced Sheep Tail or 2 teaspoons of Carbonate of Fat or Suet after it has been fried, Soda and Cream of Tartar, and the boiling fat drained from it). Mix all the ingredients with flour and sugar dry, then moisten with lukewarm water into a stiff dough ; roll out then and cut into small cakes. Bake in flat tins in a quick oven. Another recipe omits the cinnamon from ingredients, but adds a cup of buttermilk or thick milk. CAKE {MADEIRA). Ingredients. 4 Eggs. 4 oz. Butter. 6 oz. Loaf Sugar. 1 Lemon. 6 oz. Flour. J teaspoon of Carbonate of Soda. Whisk the eggs until they are as light as possible, then add by degrees the following ingredients: six ounces of dry pounded sugar, four ounces of butter, dissolved, but not heated, the grated rind of one lemon, six ounces of flour. Beat all well together; just before putting in the mould,C] CAKE (NUT—PLUM—POUND). 26 add half a teaspoon of carbonate of soda and the juice of the lemon. Great care should be taken that the butter is perfectly mixed, and no appearance of it remains. Bake for an hour. CAKE (NUT). Ingredietits. io Eggs. \ lb. White Sugar. £ lb. Hazel Nuts or Almonds. 2 tablespoonfuls finest Bread-crumbs. Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. The yolks of the eggs must be mixed with the sugar. Stir for twenty minutes ; add the nuts or almonds (ground), bread-crumbs or finely powdered biscuit, lastly the whites well whisked, and baking powder. Bake one hour. CAKE (PLUM). (Copied from Mrs. Spence’s Recipe Book.) Ingredients. 1 lb. Flour, x lb. Butter. 1 lb. Brown Sugar. 2 lb. Currants. 1 lb. Raisins. ^lb. Candied Peel. 2 oz. Mixed Spices—Cloves, Cinna- mon, Ginger, Nutmeg, Allspice. 8 Eggs. 1 wineglass of Brandy. 20 drops Essence of Almonds. Beat the butter to a cream ; then add sugar and eggs, well beaten ; then spice and candied fruit and brandy ; adding flour last. Beat all together very well, and at the last add gradually one packet of baking powder. Put into buttered mould. Bake one hour and a half. CAKE (POUND). (Mrs. Daniel Cloete’s Book.) Ingredients. 1 lb. of Flour. 4 Eggs. 1 cup of Currants. 1 breakfast-cup of Milk. 1 lb. Loaf Sugar. J Nutmeg (grated). 1 lb. Butter. x teaspoon Baking Powder. Some Citron Preserve (cut small). Mix butter, whipped to a cream, with sugar; then yolks, then flour, etc. ; lastly whites, whisked to a stiff froth. The baking powder to be mixed dry with the flour. Bake for one hour and a half in a moderate oven. Good.[C CAKE (POUND—PRUSSIAN—QUEEN). 27 CAKE (POUND). (Old Cape Recipe. Mrs. Reitz.) 12 Eggs, i lb. Batter, i lb. Sugar, i lb. Flour. Ingredients. Teaspoonfttl of mixed Cinnamon ; N aar t j e Peel (T angerine Orange), dried and powdered ; and some N utmeg. Whisk the eggs (whites and yolks) separately. Stir the butter to a cream; add dry sifted sugar, then yolks, well whisked, then flour and spices, previously well mixed, and lastly, the whites. Have a well-buttered mould, dusted with fine biscuit; a buttered paper on the top of mould. Bake in moderate oven for two hours. CAKE (PRUSSIAN). (Berg River Recipe.) Ingredients. 8 Eggs. 250 Sweet Almonds. 1 lb. Flour. 20 Bitter Almonds. 1 lb. White Sugar. Wineglass of Brandy. Whisk the yolks and whites separately. Blanch and pound the almonds. Beat the yolks and sugar together; then the whites ; add flour, and lastly, almonds. Bake one hour and a half. Very good cake. CAKE (QUEEN). Ingredients. 1 lb. Butter. 10 Eggs. 1 tablespoonful Orange-flower Water. i^lb. of Flour. 1 lb. White Sugar. J lb. Almonds. Beat butter to a cream ; add orange-flowrer water ; then the sugar (pounded), the eggs beaten very light, a pound and a half of finest flour. Beat all well together; add half a pound of blanched almonds. Butter tins ; line with paper; put in the mixture an inch and a half deep. Bake in a quick oven one hour.C] CAKE (SILVER—SODA—SPONGE). 28 CAKE {SILVER). 2 cups of Flour. ^ cup of Butter, ij cup of Sugar. \ cup Milk. Ingredients. Whites of 4 Eggs, i teaspoon Cream of Tartar, i teaspoon Soda. 20 drops Essence of Almonds. Made the same as Golden Cake; can be made at the same time. CAKE (SODA). (Mrs. Myburgh’s Recipe.) i lb. Flour. 5 lb. Sugar. | lb. Butter. 3 Eggs. i- lb. Currants. Ingredients. Teaspoon of Soda. Teaspoon of Cream of Tartar. Some Lemon Peel (grated), or Cinnamon, i pint of Milk. First rub sugar and butter well together. Mix the soda, etc., dry with the flour and currants ; then rub that with butter and sugar ; lastly, add the pint of milk. Put into the oven immediately, and bake an hour and a quarter. Very good and cheap. CAKE {SPONGE). (Mrs. Van der Byl.) Ingredients. io Eggs. The Rind of a Lemon (grated) The weight of 9 eggs in Sugar. and the Juice. ^ lb. of Flour. Whisk the whites and yolks separately. Crush the sugar; whisk it with the whites ; then add the flour, and lastly, the yolks. Just before putting in the oven, add the j'uice of the lemon. Put into a well-buttered mould, dusted with fine biscuit. Bake in a moderate oven with a paper over it. This makes a very large cake, or two small ones.29 CAKE (TIPSY)—CAKES—CHARLOTTE RUSSE. [C CAKE (TIPSY). Ingredients. Six Sponge Biscuits. 20 Almonds (blanched). 2 wineglasses of Vanderhum. Jib. of Apricot Jam. 1 pint rich Custard. Soak the sponge biscuits in the Vanderhum (see Liqueur, Vanderhum); garnish them all over with almonds cut in spikes ; arrange them in a pyramid shape in a glass dish, with some marmalade, or any preserve you like, between. Pour over the whole a pint of good custard. (See CUSTARD.) A nice supper dish. CAKES. See Scones, Tea Cakes, Veal Cake, Macaroons, “ Obletjes,” “ Honing Koek,” “Scraps,” Apple Cake, Icing for Cakes, and Tart (Walnut). CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Ingredients. Some Savoy Biscuits. Some Vanilla. | pint of good Cream. 1 oz. of Loaf Sugar. J oz. of Isinglass. A large slice of Sponge Cake. 2 dessertspoonfuls of Vanderhum or 1 Egg. Curapoa. Take as many Savoy biscuits as will line the inside of your mould, which must be buttered, lightly moistening the edges of each with the beaten white of an egg, to make them hold together, and place them upright all round the sides of the mould, slightly over each other, or sufficiently close to prevent the cream from escaping. At the bottom of the mould arrange your biscuits in a star or rosette, taking care it' is well covered; then set it in the oven to dry. Whisk the cream with the Vanderhum (see Liqueur, Vanderhum), isinglass (dis- solved), and loaf sugar to taste. When sufficiently firm fill the inside of the Charlotte Russe, and place over it a slice of sponge cake. Set it in a cool place or in ice, and when cold cover it with cream; ornament with chocolates, “hundreds and thousands,” crystallised cherries, etc.30 C] CHEESECAKES (ALMOND)—CHEESE-STRAWS. CHEESECAKES (ALMOND). Ifigredients. J lb. of Sweet Almonds. 4 Bitter Almonds. 3 Eggs. 3 oz. Sugar. 2 oz. Butter. The Rind of half a Lemon. A tablespoonful of Lemon J uice. Blanch and pound the almonds smoothly in a mortar with a little rose-water. Stir the sugar and the yolks well, warm the butter slightly, mix with the sugar, eggs, and almonds, then the juice and lemon-peel. Stir well. Line some patty tins with puff paste. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Enough for twelve Cheesecakes. Very good. Blanch and pound the sweet and bitter almonds with a tablespoonful of water, then add the sugar, the cream, and whites of eggs. Mix as quickly as possible. Put into very small patty pans lined with puff paste. Bake in a warm oven for twenty minutes. Very good. Grate two ounces of Parmesan or Cheddar cheese. Rub two ounces of butter into two ounces of flour. Add the cheese, some cayenne, and salt to taste. Mix with the yolk of an egg, roll out, and cut into strips; egg over. Bake in a quick oven. Serve very hot, nicely arranged criss-cross on a dish. Mustard to be handed round with them. Good. CHEESECAKES (ALMOND). (Another Recipe. An English Recipe.) Ingredients. J lb. Sweet Almonds. 6 Bitter Almonds. J lb. Loaf Sugar. i tablespoonful of Cream. Whites of 2 Eggs. Puff Paste. CHEESE-STRA WS. (Mrs. Daniel Cloete;s Recipe.)[C CHEESE-STRAWS—CHICKEN MOULD. CHEESE-STRAWS (ANOTHER KIND). (An old tried Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 oz. Flour. 2 oz. fine Bread-crumbs. 2 oz. grated Cheese. 2 oz. Butter. b a saltspoon Cayenne. b a saltspoon Salt. Mix all well together in a paste, and roll out to a quarter of an inch thickness. Cut into narrow strips like fingers; lay them on a buttered paper or pan. Bake in a quick oven. Sufficie?it for eight people. CHICKEN.—See also Fowl and “ Gesmoorde Hoender.” Take the remains of either roast or boiled fowl, cut into joints. Make a stock of the bones. Thicken with a little maizena, a piece of fresh butter, salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, one bay leaf, and a teaspoonful of tomato sauce. Put the chicken in, stew slowly for half an hour. Boil some rice in milk, season well with pepper and salt, and make a border round the dish, placing the chicken in the centre. About one pound of the white meat of a chicken, a quarter of a pound of ham, pounded together in a mortar. Add to this two ounces of butter, three eggs, well beaten, a quarter of a pint of whipped cream. Flavour with a little cayenne, some salt, and a little nutmeg. Mix all well together. Steam for twenty minutes. Serve with oyster or tomato sauce. For luncheon. CHICKEN RECHAUFFE. (Mrs. Cloete’s.) CHICKEN MOULD. (Cold Meat.)32 [C CHICKEN (SCOLLOPED)—CHILLI VINEGAR. CHICKEN (SCOLLOPED). (Mrs. Dwyer’s Recipe.) Mince some chicken with some lean ham, and season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of cream, or a little butter. Put into scollop-shells, cover with fine bread-crumbs ; set them in the oven to brown, with a small bit of butter on the top of each. CHICKEN {STEWED). (The old Cape way.) Ingredients. young Chickens, or 3 White Onions, tablespoonful Butter and a little clarified Dripping, ij pints of Water. 2 tablespoonfuls of Vermicelli. A few Allspice, Peppercorns, and a tiny bit of Mace (tied in a muslin bag). i tablespoonful Tomato Sauce. The yolk of an Egg. Glass of White Wine. Truss the chickens and stuff them with fine bread- crumbs, a little butter, a slice of white onion, flavoured with a little pepper and sweet herbs. Press down the breast-bone, put a skewer through the wings, in which put the liver and gizzard, and tie the whole together. Stew the chickens in a flat enamelled stewing-pot, with a pint and a half of water, the butter, dripping, onions (cutting two incisions on the top), and a little bag of spice. Turn the chickens breast downward, let them simmer for an hour. Now remove the spices and add vermicelli and tomato sauce. Stew for half an hour, and just before serving add the yolk of an egg whipped with the wineglass of white wine, stirred into the pot, and then poured over the chickens. Serve hot. Turkey done in this way is delicious. CHILLI VINEGAR. Take green chillies, prick and sprinkle with salt, put into a wide-mouthed bottle; pour on them some vinegar in which a few small onions, bits of ginger, and coriander seeds have been boiled. Let it cool before putting over the chillies. Cork well. This is very good with cold meat.[C “CHIPPOLATA”—CHUTNEY (INDIAN). “ CHIPPOLA TAR (A delicious pudding. Mrs. Hidclingh’s Recipe.) Soak a quarter of an ounce of gelatine in a little water for a quarter of an hour. Make a custard of a pint of milk, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Add gelatine before adding eggs and sugar. Take nine sponge biscuits ; slice thinly; soak in half a wineglass of Vanderhum, or the syrup in which peaches have been preserved. Garnish a buttered porcelain mould with little bits of citron preserve, tomato preserve, or Cape gooseberry ; then put in a layer of soaked biscuits. Have ready any kind of preserve, such as yellow peaches (pre- served in brandy), water-melon, or ginger (cut small) ; put in a layer of preserve; then some more soaked sponge biscuits; pour over the whole the custard (which must be warm), to fill the mould, and let it stand over-night. If ice is handy, this pudding is greatly improved by being iced. CHUTNEY. (Mrs. Coleman’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 3 tablespoonfuls Apricot Jam. 2 dessertspoonfuls of Pounded Ginger. 1 dessertspoonful of Salt. 6 Sour Apples. 2 dessertspoonfuls of Cayenne. 2 Large Onions. Boil the apples and onions, then mash fine, and mix with the other ingredients. Put in bottles and cork. CHUTNEY (ANOTHER), INDIAN. (Mrs. Lockhart’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 lb. Dried Apples, or Apricots. | lb. Red Chillies. 1 lb. Raisins (stoned). 1 lb. Soft Sugar. 1 lb. Onions. 2 oz. Salt. 1 lb. Ginger. 4 oz. Garlic. Mix all these ingredients. After having been pounded in a stone jar with four quarts of vinegar, set it in the sun for a week. As the vinegar gets absorbed, more should be added. Bottle and cork. Keep some months before using. DC] CHUTNEY (INDIAN—APPLE—ANOTHER). 34 CHUTNEY {ANOTHER). (Aunt Fanny’s Indian Recipe.) Ingredients. 3 lb. Quinces, Apricots, or Apples. i lb. Salt. J lb. Dried Chillies. i lb. Raisins, x lb. Sugar. \ lb. Garlic. £ lb. Ginger. 4 quarts Vinegar. Peel and cut the quinces, apples, or apricots; boil in three bottles of vinegar till soft; mash in all the sugar and other ingredients ; then add the rest of the vinegar. Cork. Will keep for years, and improves by age. CHUTNEY {APPLE). (Mrs. Jackson’s Recipe. Old Indian.) Ingredients. 2 soup plates of Sour Apples (sliced). J lb. Dried Apricots, soaked in 1 quart of Vinegar till soft. 3 Large Onions. 1 Garlic. 1 soup plate of fresh Red Chillies. 1 large breakfast-cup of Stoned Raisins. 1 lb. Sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls Coriander Seeds. J lb. Salt. h lb. Ginger. 3 tablespoonfuls Mustard Seeds. All these ingredients to be bruised fine (dry). The garlic and onions minced, the raisins stoned. The other ingredients to be well mixed. The whole to be boiled in three quarts of vinegar till it looks clear. This is a most delicious Chutney. * CHUTNEY {ANOTHER). (From a Bengal Recipe.) 1 Jib. Sugar, jib. Salt. I lb. Garlic. + lb. Onions, fib. Ginger. Ingredients. 41b. Dried Chillies. § lb. Mustard Seeds, fib. Stoned Raisins. 30 large unripe Sour Apples. 2 quarts of Vinegar. The sugar made into syrup; the garlic, onions, ginger finely pounded; mustard seeds dried; apples peeled, cored, sliced, and boiled in half the vinegar. When the35 CHUTNEY—CLARET CUP—COCOANUT ICE. [C apples are cold, put in a large pan, and mix the rest of the ingredients in the remainder of the vinegar (hot), till the whole is mixed. Cork well. This recipe was given by a native to an English lady who had long resided in India. CHUTNEY—See Quince Sambal. CLARET CUP. (Mrs. Fleming.) Ingredients. i quart of Claret. A squeeze of Lemon and some Peel. J wineglass of Sherry or Vanderhum. A tablespoonful of Sugar. ^ wineglass of Brandy. A little Nutmeg. A sprig of Borage or slice of Cucumber. Put the whole into a jug with a few lumps of ice. When wanted add a bottle of soda water. CLARET STAINS {TO REMOVE). A little sherry poured over any red wine immediately after it is spilt will neutralise the colour of the stain, and it will quickly disappear when washed. COCOANUT DROPS. (Swellendam Recipe.) To a grated cocoanut, half its weight in sugar, the white of one egg beaten stiff. Drop small pieces on a buttered paper; sift sugar over them. Bake fifteen minutes in a slow oven. COCOANUT ICE. Take an ordinary sized cocoanut {fresh), grated quite fine, the white of one egg beaten stiff, two tablespoons of sifted loaf sugar, a few drops of rose-water. Make into sugar-loaf shapes ; set in oven for a few minutes. It must not be brown, but crisp and white outside, soft and melting in the centre. Very good. D 236 C] COCHINEAL COLOURING—TO COOL WINE. COCHINEAL COLOURING. \ Boil fifteen grains of cochineal in half a pint of water. Add a small piece of alum the size of a nut, one drachm of cream of tartar, a few lumps of sugar. Boil slowly for an hour ; strain and bottle for use. For colouring jellies and blanc-mange. COFFEE FOR TRAVELLING OR PICNICS. Take of the best Java coffee one pound, have it roasted to a rich dark brown in an American coffee roaster, at home. Grind whilst still warm. To one pound of coffee take a quarter of a pound of chicory. The best pot for making coffee for ordinary use is the common block tin coffee-pot, with a bag made of coarse flannel, the shape of a jelly-bag. Take one large breakfast-cup of ground coffee, pour the coffee into the bag, taking care first to have the pot warmed ; on this pour three cups of boiling water. Keep the pot on the stove or coals, let it drain through the bag twice, then put into bottles and cork immediately. This will keep, if well corked and made quickly, for a fortnight, and is most excellent for picnics, when one tablespoon added to a cup of boiling milk will be found as good as any freshly-made coffee. For ordinary use, when not so much milk would be used, add four cups of water instead of three to a breakfast- cup of ground coffee mixed with chicory. CONDIMENT. See “ Blatjang,” Pickle, Chutney, Cucumber Sambal, Quince Sarnbal, Sauce (Horseradish). TO COOL WINE, ETC., WHERE ICE IS NOT TO BE HAD. Stand your decanter or bottles in a current of air with wet cloths round them.37 CREAM (APPLE—IN MOULDS—CHOCOLATE). [C CREAM (APPLE). (Mrs. Cloete’s Recipe.) U I Ingredients. 12 Apples. J lb. Sugar. 2 Eggs. Boil twelve apples very soft, mix the pulp with half a pound of white sugar ; whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add to the apples. Beat all well together, heap on a glass dish. CREAM IN MOULDS. (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) Ingredients. i oz. Isinglass. 2 tablespoonfuls of Brandy. 1 pint Cream. Sugar to taste. 4 tablespoonfuls of Strawberry or Apricot Jam. Soak the ounce of isinglass in cold water, add a little boiling milk, stir till nearly cold. Then add four table- spoonfuls of jam with the cream ; add to the isinglass, stirring the while till nice and smooth. Add brandy and sugar. Pour into a porcelain mould and turn out when cold and firm. Very good. CREAM (CHOCOLATE). Ingredients. h pint of Cream. 4 oz. Powdered White Sugar. A little Milk. 1 oz. Isinglass dissolved in boiling water. 2 oz. Chocolate dissolved in a little The Juice of half a Lemon, warm water or milk. Whisk up the cream to a stiff froth, then add the sugar, chocolate, lemon juice, and isinglass. Mix all well together and pour into a mould. Let it stand till set. Dip the mould in hot water for half a minute before turning out.CREAM (ICED—COFFEE—DEVONSHIRE). C] 38 CREAM (CHOCOLATE), ICED. (Miss Bonnie Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 3 oz. Grated Chocolate. 4 oz. Sugar. 1 pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. J cup of Cream. Dissolve the chocolate in a pint of milk on the fire with the sugar, then add the yolks of the eggs well Avhisked. Stir as you would a custard, and when cool add the cream well whipped. Put into a mould, and ice. CREAM (COFFEE). Ingredients. J pint of very strong Coffee. 1 pint Milk. 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. Tablespoonful of rich Cream. 1 oz. Nelson’s Gelatine. 3 oz. Lump Sugar. Soak the gelatine in the coffee. When nearly dissolved place it in an enamelled saucepan with the milk, cream, sugar, and vanilla essence; stir over the fire till almost boiling, then pour into a wetted mould. Let it set over- night. CREAM (DEVONSHIRE). Strain new milk from the cow into large flat pans, or tins ; let it stand for twenty-four hours in winter, twelve in summer, to allow the cream to rise ; then place the pans on a hot dresser, or gas stove not too hot; let it warm gently till just on the point of boiling, then take the pans off the stove. Set it aside to cool. When cold skim the cream. Heap it on a dish, and serve.CREAM (DUTCH—FRUIT—HONEYCOMB). [C 39 CREAM {DUTCH). (Mrs. Dwyer’s Recipe.) i pint Milk, i gill of Cream. 4 oz. Loaf Sugar, jib. Ground Rice. Ingredients. i Egg. i glass Brandy. i oz. of chopped Lemon or Citron Preserve. The Juice of an Orange. Boil milk, sugar, and ground rice together until the rice is quite soft; then add the egg (stirring all the time), then the cream and other ingredients. Put into a mould to set. Serve. You may melt a tablespoonful of apricot marmalade in a little hot water, add a wineglass of brandy, and serve with this cream, but it is very good without. CREAM {FRUIT). (In a mould. Miss Bonnie Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. J packet Gelatine, well soaked in i pint of Cream. cold water. 4 tablespoonfuls Apricot Jam, or any \ pint of Boiling Milk. fruit jelly you like. : Pour the milk boiling on the gelatine, whisk up the cream and fruit jelly, add the milk and gelatine ; pour into a buttered mould. Turn out when cold in a glass dish. Enough for eight people. CREAM (.HONEYCOMB). (Mrs. G. Ebden’s Recipe.) Ingredie7its. 1 quart of Milk. 3 Eggs. 1 oz. White Sugar. • j oz. Gelatine. 1 teaspoon Vanilla. Dissolve the gelatine (which should be previously soaked) over the fire, with the milk and sugar 3 then stir in the yolks of the eggs (previously well beaten), and boil the whole mixture only once. Take off the fire, stir in the whites (which have been whisked to a stiff froth) and the essence of vanilla. Put into a mould, and turn out next day.CREAM (ISINGLASS—ITALIAN—LEMON). C] 40 CREAM {ISINGLASS). (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) Ingredients. i oz. Isinglass. 2 tablespoons Brandy. 1 pint Cream. 2 tablespoons of Sugar. Some Apricot Jam. Soak one ounce of isinglass in a little cold water ; add a cup of boiling milk, and stir till cold. Then mix four spoonfuls of jam with the cream, stirring the whole until nice and smooth ; then add the sugar and brandy. Good. CREAM {ITALIAN). (From a Recipe given by an English lady who had lived in Italy.) Ingredients. 1 cup of Cream. Whites of 2 Eggs. Apricot Jam. White (Castor) Sugar. Whisk the cream and two spoonfuls of apricot jam well; strain through a milk sieve. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix with the cream ; and lastly, stir in one or two spoonfuls of sugar, according to taste. Will fill half-a-dozen or more glasses. Is most delicious, and not too rich. CREAM {LEMON). Ingredients. 1 quart Cream. 12 oz. Loaf Sugar. 2 large Lemons. ii oz. Isinglass. A pinch of Salt. Infuse into a pint of the cream the thin rind of the two lemons. Dissolve the isinglass, or soak it in a little cold milk; add the sugar; then put the saucepan on the fire ; do not let it boil, but keep near simmering till the sugar and isinglass are quite dissolved, then stir in the other pint of cream. Strain the mixture in a basin through a milk sieve. When nearly cold, stir in the juice of two lemons. Pour into an oiled or buttered mould, and leave in a cool place to set before turning out.41 CREAM (“LEMON SOLID ORANGE—STONE). [C CREAM (“LEMON SOLID”). (A similar Recipe.) Ingredients. i quart New Milk. i oz. Gelatine. | lb. Sugar. 2 or 3 Lemons. Soak the gelatine in some of the milk for a quarter of an hour ; add to it the sugar and rind of lemon cut very- thin ; put the whole in a saucepan, and let it boil a few minutes, then stir in the remainder of the cold milk. When nearly cold, squeeze in the juice of the lemons. It is better made the day before, and put into a wetted or oiled mould till cold. CREAM (ORANGE). (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 quart Milk. Rind of 2 Oranges. 3 Eggs. 1 oz- Gelatine. 4 oz. Sugar. Juice of r Lemon. Make a custard of the milk and eggs, stir till it thickens. Dissolve the gelatine in a little warm water (previously soaked in cold), add to it the juice of a lemon, then stir it in the custard; put into a buttered mould, and set to ice. CREAM (STONE). Ingredients. Marmalade, Jam, or 1 oz. Loaf Sugar. Preserve. x pint of Cream. J oz. Gelatine. ' 1 wineglass of Sherry. Milk may be substituted for cream, but, if so, an egg and teaspoonful of butter should be added. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a thin layer of marmalade (or jam). Stir into the pint of cream a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, previously dissolved, and one ounce of loaf sugar; let it boil a few minutes, stir all the time. Strain, and when cooled add a wineglass of sherry, then pour over the preserve. If milk is used instead- of cream42 C] CREAM (STRAWBERRY)—CREEF (POTTED). add one teaspoonful of butter, and when boiled whisk the yolk of an egg into the mixture, and white, well whisked, when taken off the fire ; then pour it over the marmalade. CREAM (STRAWBERRY). Ingredients. 2 lb. ripe Strawberries. 12 oz. of Sugar. 1 quart of Cream or Milk. 1 oz. Isinglass. Pour the cream or milk into a stew-pan, add sugar and isinglass to dissolve, not allowing the mixture to boil; then strain into a basin and stir until nearly cold. Add the fruit, which has been previously passed through a hair sieve, oil the mould, and pour in the cream. Allow it to stand until it is quite firm. CREAM (SWISS). (Mrs. D. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 quart of Cream or Milk. 8 teaspoonfuls of Maizena. 12 oz. of Sugar. \ lb. Macaroons. 2 Lemons. A small stick of Cinnamon. Set the cream, or rich milk, on the fire (keeping a little to moisten the maizena), add sugar, and cinnamon, and maizena; let it boil for five minutes. Pour into a basin; when nearly cold, add the juice of the lemons. Take half the macaroons and cover the bottom of a glass dish, pour over the cream ; another layer of macaroons, and another of cream, and so on. This pudding should be made the day before. CREEF (POTTED). (Cape Crawfish.) Boil the creef, mince in the sausage machine, adding all the red meat. For one pound of minced creef, two blades of mace, one teaspoon black pepper, half a teaspoon-[C CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN—FISH—RICE. 43 ful of salt, some cayenne, three ounces butter, one ounce sheep tail fat. Mix the spices with the crawfish ; work all well together. Bake the whole in a pie-dish in a moderate oven until nearly brown. To be eaten cold. CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN. (Mrs. Dwyer’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 lb. cooked Chicken. i blade of Mace. 2 lb. of mixed Mushrooms. 2 Eggs. Truffles and Ham (or Tongue). Bread-crumbs. A little Pepper. Some rich Stock. Mince fine about one pound of cooked chicken with mushroom, tongue (or ham), and truffles; season with the spices. Have some rich stock reduced by boiling till quite thick, stir well together. Spread it on a dish an inch thick, cover with buttered paper, and set it to cool. Divide into nice little balls, dip in egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry a light brown. CROQUETTES OF FISH. Take any cold boiled fish, pound it well, season with salt and cayenne. Put one ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add two ounces flour, one gill of milk, stir over the fire till it thickens, and boils, and is smooth; add to it one pound of the cold fish, one teaspoonful of Anchovy or Worcestershire sauce. Stir all together, and turn all into a plate to cool. When cool make into shapes, dip into egg, and roll in bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat, and serve with fried parsley. CROQUETTES OF RICE. Ingredients. 7 oz. of Rice. Rind of a Lemon. 1 quart of Milk. 5 oz. Sugar. A few bitter Almonds. Boil all this well together; when cold form into balls. Scoop out and put apricot jam in the centre, roll in egg, and dust with powdered biscuit Fry in hot lard.C] CAKE (RICE)—CURRY OF COLD MEAT. 44 CAKE {RICE). Ingredients. § lb. of Butter, whipped to Cream. A lb. of ground Rice. i lb. of Loaf Sugar. \ lb. of Flour. 7 EoSs—whites of 4. Essence of Lemon. ■ Mix the sugar and butter, then the yolks, then rice and flour, lastly whites and flavouring. Bake an hour and a half with buttered paper over mould. CRUST.—See Pie Crust, Puff Paste, Pastry. CUCUMBER {SAVOURY). Pare and scoop out the seeds of a moderate sized cucumber. Grate one tablespoonful of cheese, one of bread-crumbs, a little chopped parsley, chives, pepper, salt, butter. Stuff cucumber and bake in the oven for half an hour. Have sauce made thus: one tablespoonful of cheese, teaspoonful flour, teaspoonful butter, half a teaspoonful of mustard, little pepper and salt. Stir in the saucepan with a tablespoonful of milk; stir till thick. Pour this over cucumber, cover with bread-crumbs brown, and serve. CURRY OF COLD MEAT. (My Recipe.) Take one large onion, cut small, fry a nice brown ; a tablespoonful of butter or dripping mixed, two green apples or a large quince (if not at hand, take two or three tomatoes), cut in slices ; simmer with a large tablespoonful of curry powder and the fried onion, a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon, a dessertspoonful of sugar, half a cup of stock, and a little milk. Cut up some cold meat in nice little pieces, lay in this mixture, and simmer for an hour or more till the meat is thoroughly flavoured with the curry paste. Serve with hot boiled rice. Any cold boiled or roast meat will do. N.B.—Half an ounce of tamarinds, soaked in boiling water and strained, gives a delicious acid flavour to curry, and may always be substituted for vinegar.CURRY (CHICKEN—CUCUMBER). [C 45 CURRY {CHICKEN). (Our Cape way.) Ingredients. i Fowl. ij tablespoons of Curry Powder, i "teaspoon of Sugar. J teaspoon of Salt. 2 tablespoons of Vinegar or 2 sour Apples. 1 oz. Butter. 2 Onions sliced and browned in butter or fat. The fowl must not be more than twelve months old, and must be killed the day before cooking. Cut it into small joints. Mix the onions with the curry powder, vinegar, salt, sugar, and butter, into a paste ; lay on the chicken. Cover the pot and let it simmer, or stew gently, for an hour, then stir well. If dry add a little water. A tablespoon of tomato sauce or lemon in half a cup of milk, stirred in shortly before serving, is an improvement, but it will be found excellent without. Serve with boiled rice. Sufficient as an entree for six or eight people. Some people fry the meat and onion together till brown ; but from experience I find it best to do the onions first, and then let all steam with the chicken. Take four large cucumbers that are turning yellow ; peel carefully (be particular that no bitter be left), take out the seeds, cut in halves, or if large in three pieces, stuff with forcemeat, made as follows: one pound of mutton (fresh or cold) minced, one slice of bread soaked in milk, one egg, a little salt and pepper, a dessertspoonful of curry powder. Mix well together, stuff the cucumber with this. Then take two large onions, fry a nice brown ; make a paste of curry powder one ounce, one teaspoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of vinegar, a cup of stock, a good tablespoonful of dripping (butter is better); simmer in a flat stewing-pot. Arrange the stuffed cucumber in this, and let it simmer on a moderate heat for two hours. Serve with boiled rice. (This is a very nice entree or lunch dish.) CURRY {CUCUMBER). (A Cape Dish.)46 CJ CURRY (GOOD MUTTON—VEGETABLE). T CURRY (A GOOD MUTTON). Ingredients. 2 lb. of Mutton (2 lb. of thick rib make a nice dish). 2 Large Onions. 2 sour Apples or Tomatoes. 2 teaspoonfuls of Sugar. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 1 tablespoon ful of Vinegar. 1 tablespoon ful of good Curry Powder (if not sure of the Curry Powder add a teaspoonful of Indian Currie Paste). Cut the mutton in nice little pieces. Fry the mutton and onion a nice brown, cut the apple or tomato in slices, mix with curry, powder and other ingredients ; stir all well together. If the meat is lean a small piece of butter is an improvement. Simmer for two hours gently. Serve with boiled rice. Cold meat cut in slices, and simmered in this mixture of curry, etc., for two hours, does very well. CURRY (.ANOTHER MUTTON). (This was taught me by an Indian Cook.) Take three pounds of mutton out of the leg ; cut into small, square pieces, and put into the pot. Slice up a large onion thinly ; put that on the top of the meat. Now make a paste of two tablespoonfuls of curry powder, one tablespoonful of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. If apples are in season, slice up two or three and add to it.. Stir all together, and put this on the top' of the sliced onions. Shut up the pot; let it simmer gently. No water to be added. After an hour, stir all well together. Let it simmer gently another hour. Just before serving, if it should be dry, add half a cup of milk and a tablespoonful of tomato sauce. Serve with rice. CURRY (VEGETABLE). Chop four onions and four apples, put them in a pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, let them fry a light brown; add a tablespoonful of curry powder, a little stock, and some salt.47 CURRY—CUCUMBER “ SAMBAL ”—CUSTARD. [C Parboil six large potatoes whole ; cut them up, and put them with other ingredients. Let all stew gently for an hour. Cover the pot. Vegetable marrow makes a very nice curry. CURRY. See also Eggs (Curried), “ Bobotee,” “ Sasaties,” Soup (Curry), and receipt for Rice. CUCUMBER “SAMBAL.” (A Malay Dish.) Ingredients. 2 young Cucumbers. Vinegar, or Lemon. Cayenne. Salt. Soy. A Spring Onion. Peel your cucumbers; then cut off the green, fleshy part, leaving out all the seeds. Cut up this in thin shreds, also some spring onions ; add cayenne, or green chilli ; a few tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, or vinegar, about a tea- spoonful of soy. If eaten with fish, some anchovy sauce. CUSTARD IN CUPS. Ingredients. i pint of Milk. Cinnamon, or 20 drops of Vanilla 4 Eggs. Essence. 3 oz. White Sugar. Boil the milk in an enamelled saucepan, with the sugar and any flavouring you prefer (if vanilla essence, put it in when the custard is made); let the milk steep by the side of the fire till quite seasoned. Whisk the eggs well, bring the milk to a boiling point, then strain into a basin. When it has cooled a little, stir in • the eggs. Strain this mixture into a jug; place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire ; keep stirring the custard one way until it thickens, but on no account allow it to reach boiling point, or it will curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, stir in a wineglass of brandy (if liked). Time— half an hour to infuse lemon-peel, or flavouring; about ten minutes to stir the custard. Sufficient for eight glasses..48 C] CUTLETS—LAMB CUTLETS—CUTLETS (STEWED). CUTLETS. Trim your cutlets carefully; lay them in a little milk, which makes the meat white and tender. (Fresh meat laid for five or six hours in a little milk will be found nice and tender.) Have ready some fine bread-crumbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, lard, or dripping. Roll the cutlets in egg and bread-crumbs, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fry in hot lard. Serve with mashed potatoes. When tomatoes are plentiful, boil about a dozen with a small piece of onion ; strain, add a pat of butter, and serve round the cutlets. LAMB CUTLETS AND GREEN PEAS. Ingredients. 3 lbs. of the best end of Neck of Lamb. 2 Eggs. Bread-crumbs. Pepper, Salt, a little Nutmeg. Some Beef or Mutton Dripping, or Lard. Cut the cutlets from the best end of the neck. Chop off the thick part of the chine bone ; trim the cutlets neatly by taking off the skin and greater part of the fat, and scraping the upper end of the bone perfectly clean. Brush each cutlet with well-beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle them with fine bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. After this dip them separately into clarified butter, sprinkle more crumbs over them, then fry a nice brown in a frying-pan with either butter, or lard, or dripping. Serve with a nicely-boiled dish of green peas arranged in a pyramid in the middle of the dish. Can also be served with tomato sauce. Time, eight or ten minutes for cooking. CUTLETS (STEWED). (A homely, nice dish.) Cut and trim your cutlets, roll them in fine bread- crumbs flavoured with nutmeg, pepper, salt, the tiniest shred of onion; lay them in a flat pot in layers. Cover the pot well, let them simmer for an hour. Put no water. A little before serving, stir in a little cup of stock, a spoonful of tomato sauce, and a tiny pat of butter. Let the cutlets simmer in this for a few minutes and then serve.E 253 D. DELICIOUS SWEET DISH. (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 4 oz. Almonds. \ teaspoon Cinnamon. 3 stale id. Sponge Cakes. Some grated Orange-Peel. 8 oz. White Sugar. Whites of 2 or 3 Eggs. Pound the almonds, crumble the sponge biscuits, etc., mix with the whites of three eggs well whisked. Bake in small patty tins till a golden colour, in a brisk oven, for a quarter of an hour or less. Have ready some whipped cream, with any small preserved fruit, put a teaspoonful on each, with a little preserve in the centre. DICICS DISH. (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) Put slices of cooked or uncooked meat into a pie-dish. Put mustard, pepper, and salt on each piece according to taste, with plenty of Harveys Sauce and a slice of onion. Cover the meat with a good rich gravy (made by boiling stock and thickening with a little flour), then cover the top with a rich crust of mashed potatoes. Bake in an oven. DOUGHNUTS. (Mrs. Cloete's Recipe.) Ingredients. | lb. Flour. 1 teaspoonful Soda. | lb. Sugar. 2 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful Cream of Tartar. i\ small cups of Milk. Mix so that it will drop out of a spoon, but not flow. Fry in lard.54 D] DUCK (HASHED)—DUMPLINGS (GERMAN MILK). DUCK (HASHED). Ingredients. Remains of Cold Roast Duck. Thickening of Butter and Flour. Rather more than a pint of weak Stock Salt and Cayenne to taste. or Water. J teaspoon of minced Lemon-Peel, i Onion. Dessertspoonful of Lemon Juice, i oz. Butter. J glass Port Wine. Cut the duck into nice joints, and put the trimmings in a stewpan. Slice and fry the onions in a little dripping, add these to the trimmings; strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, season with cayenne and salt, add remaining ingredients ; boil it up and skim well. Lay in this gravy the remaining pieces of duck; let them get thoroughly hot by the side of the fire, but do not boil; they should soak in the gravy for half an hour. Garnish with sippets of fried bread. DUMPLINGS (BAKED APPLE). Ingredients. 6 Apples. f lb. Suet Crust. Sugar to taste. Pare and take out the cores of the apples without dividing them. Make a suet crust as follows: Half a pound of suet, cut exceedingly fine, and mixed with a pound of flour, a little salt, and half a pint of water, and rolled out. The crust can be much improved by making as in recipe for Pastry (Suet). Sweeten the apples with moist sugar ; roll them in crust, taking care to join the paste neatly; when they are formed into round balls, bake them on a tin for half an hour or more. Arrange on a dish, and sift over with white sugar. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. DUMPLINGS (GERMAN MILK). (“ Kluitjes.” From a Recipe over a hundred years old.) Ingredients. 1 quart of Milk. cups Flour. 2 tablespoonfuls Butter. 3 Fggs. Boil half the milk, stir in the butter, then add the flour, stirring all the while on the fire till quite a thick paste.DUMPLINGS (RICE). 55 When cool, beat up the three eggs into it. Boil the other half-bottle of milk, and take with a teaspoon little pieces of the dough ; put them into the milk, and boil for a quarter of an hour. A delicious old-fashioned German dish was made in the following way : A young fowl, cut in small joints, was fried with some butter and sliced onion to a nice brown; about a pint of water was added when brown, and some red chillies. In this gravy was stirred some of the above Milk Klnitjes a few minutes before serving. DUMPLINGS (PICE). (Very old Cape Recipe. Cape name, “ Rys Kluitjes.”) Ingredients. i lb. Rice. 3 dessertspoonfuls Melted Butter. 3 Eggs. Sugar. 3 spoonfuls Flour. Cinnamon. Boil the rice as if for curry, only not quite so dry; let it cool; mix with flour, eggs, and butter ; roll in sugar- loaf shapes (about eight or nine from this quantity), dust with flour, and put into boiling water. When done, it rises to the top. Serve with sugar and cinnamon. Time about ten minutes. In most Cape Dutch houses this dish is eaten with meat, and generally made when a corned brisket of beef is boiled. Instead of mixing melted butter with the rice, some of the fat is taken from the stock in which the beef is boiling ; and when the dumplings are ready, the meat is taken out about ten minutes before dinner, and the dumplings are boiled in the stock, and served with sugar.. Whether from the German or Dutch, most colonists who are not of English parentage are very fond of sweet things with meat—such as stewed fruit, sweet potatoes, or parsnips done with sugar. DUMPLINGS (RICE). (Cape.) Take one pound of rice, let it boil quite soft, then allow it to cool. Stir in half a pound of flour, a spoonfulD] DUMPLINGS (RICE). of butter, two eggs. Make into dumplings with a spoon ; boil in the soup in. which a brisket of beef has been boiled. Can be eaten with meat, or served as a pudding with sugar and cinnamon. Time, half an hour to boil the rice, and twenty minutes the dumpling.* ✓ // I /61 E. EGGS (CURRIED). (Cape Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 oz. Curry Powder. About i pint of Stock. 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar. i or 2 Fried Onions. 1 teaspoonful Sugar, 6 Eggs. Brown the onions (sliced thin) in two ounces of butter. Rub to a paste curry powder, vinegar, sugar, etc. Mix with half a pint (or a little more) stock; bring to a boil. Break the eggs into this gravy; let it simmer till done, like poached eggs. Serve quickly. Makes a nice break- fast or lunch dish. Time, about twenty minutes in all. For four or five people. EGG FLIP. (Our own Recipe.—H. D.) Ingredients. 5 tablespoonfuls of Sugar. Some Cinnamon. 12 Cloves. A very little Nutmeg. Mull the wine, spices, and sugar ; add boiling water. Whisk in a punch-bowl the five eggs to a good froth. Pour in gradually the mulled wine, steaming hot \ stir all the while. Put into tumblers and drink. Most excellent mixture for cold winter nights. This will make half-a- dozen tumblers. 1 bottle of Madeira, or any Light Wine. 1 pint Water. 5 Eggs.62 E] EGGS (ITALIAN—POACHED—SCRATCHED). EGGS (ITALIAN). (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Hard-boiled eggs, cut in two, the yolks to be taken out, minced, and mixed with very finely minced cooked bacon, and some chopped parsley; put back into the whites arranged on a dish. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. To be eaten cold. EGGS (POACHED). Eggs for poaching should be fresh, but not new-laid, or the whites will not set. A stale egg will not poach. The best are about thirty-six hours old. Strain boiling water into a deep, clean frying-pan. Break the egg into a cup, without damaging the yolk. When the water boils, gently slip the egg into it. Keep the water gently • simmering till the white looks nicely set; take up gently with a slice. Serve on toasted bread or slices of ham on spinach. (In slipping the egg into the water keep the cup over it for half a minute, so as to gather the whites together.) In doing eggs in a frying-pan never do more than four or five at a time. If liked, mix one tablespoonful of vinegar in the water in which you poach, one pint for an ordinary-sized frying-pan. Time, two and a half or three and a half minutes. EGGS (SCRATCHED). (A favourite Colonial breakfast dish.) Take five or six eggs, whisk them well together; take a dessertspoonful of butter in a frying-pan, let it get quite hot. Stir in the eggs ; keep stirring briskly over the fire till done. Serve on hot buttered toast with pepper and salt.63 EGGS (SNOW)—ENTREES. [E EGGS {SNOW). Ingredients, 4 Eggs, i pint Milk. Sugar to taste. Vanilla Bean, or Essence. Make a rich custard of the yolks; then whisk the whites. Flavour with vanilla and sweeten. Take a tablespoonful at a time of the white froth and drop into boiling milk, turning carefully; then take it out and put it on a glass dish—go on till you have done all. Now pour the rich custard into the dish, not over the s7iow. This makes a pretty, cool-looking supper dish. See Anchovies on Toast, Beef Olives, Croquettes, Eggs (Curried), Fritters (Beef, etc.), “Gesmoorde Hoender,” Patties (Lobster, etc.), Palates, Sasaties, Salsafy, Pudding (Roman), Ragout (Tongue), “ Swartziur.” ENTREES.Parsley. A little bit of Bay Leaf, 1 teaspoonful Chopped F. FISH. See Kedgeree, Oysters, Fish Pie, ‘‘Pearl Lemon,” and Creel. See also Sauces for Fish. FISH (FOR BREAKFAST). Cut any cold fish into slices, steep in a mixture of lemon juice, oil, pepper, and salt, for an hour or two. Dip in batter, and fry a rich brown in plenty of boiling lard. Serve hot. FISH {BAKED). (Haddock is best.) Ingredients. J teaspoonful Worcestershire Sauce. A few leaves of Thyme. i doz. drops Anchovy Essence. Mix all well together with one egg, well beaten ; stuff the fish with it; sew it up. Butter the tin, then sprinkle in a little lemon juice. Score the fish to prevent it from shrinking. Put a spoonful of butter and some lemon juice over the fish. Bake for twenty minutes and serve. Very good. FISH BALLS. (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Take one small silver fish, crumb of one penny roll, a small piece of onion, a little milk, one egg, parsley, 69 1 oz. Suet. 1 oz. Bread-crumbs.70 FJ FISH (“ENGELEGTE”—FRIED)—FISH MOULD. pepper, and salt, put all through a mincing machine. Mix with the egg, the crumb to be soaked in milk and squeezed quite dry; roll into balls, dip in the bread- crumbs and egg. Fry in boiling lard or dripping. FISH (“ENGELEGTE”). (Cape way of preserving fish.) Ingredients. 2 good-sized Soles, or any nice Cape i oz. Mango Relish. Fish (filleted). 6 Large Chillies, or 12 Small. 6 Large Onions. 1 quart Vinegar. 2 oz. Curry Powder. Salt to taste. Fry the fish a nice brown in lard, or butter, or olive oil; drain, and cool. Slice four onions, and fry a nice brown in a little oil; add one ounce curry powder, two chillies cut fine, a dessertspoonful of salt, and the mango relish. When stirred to a paste, add a little vinegar to moisten well; then lay the fish in a jar; spread over each layer some of this mixture. Cut the rest of the onion in rings ; boil in the vinegar very gently, until quite tender, with the other ounce of curry powder and a little salt; then pour over the fish. Let it stand till cool, then cork well. It will be fit for use in two or three days, and will keep for months. Is a delicious breakfast or lunch dish. FISH (FRIED). Cut your fish in nice little shapes; let them get slightly dry; dust with flour. Then roll in egg and bread- crumbs, with pepper and salt. Fry in lard. (In frying fish, do not add cold lard while your fish is in the frying- pan, as it should always be done in boiling fat or lard.) FISH MOULD. (Mrs. Fleming’s Book.) Shred about half a pound, or more, of boiled fish ; add half a cup of bread-crumbs, two eggs, essence of anchovy,FISH (PICKLED—STEWED—OR IN AN OVEN). [F two ounces of butter, pepper, salt, cayenne. Mix all well together, put into a buttered mould, and steam for an hour. Serve with butter sauce. FISH (PICKLED). Fry your fish in the above way, only don't use any flour or bread-crumbs, and brown the fish in thin oil (Cape sheep-tail fat is excellent). Take two. or three ounces of good curry powder, two ounces soft sugar, two ounces salt, half-ounce pounded ginger, two or three fresh red chillies, two dozen coriander seeds, two quarts of vinegar, about four or five onions (cut in rings and fried a nice brown). Boil all these ingredients. Lay your fish in layers in a jar, pour over each layer some of the mixture. Take care to have it well corked, and it will keep for months. FISH (STEWED), ANOTHER RECIPE. (Mrs. Fleming’s Book.) Fillet your fish, and fry in lard (bread-crumb and egg) ; slice an onion, and fry that also. Then put the fish and onion in a tin dish, cover the fish with stock ; season with pepper, salt, one blade of mace, a clove or two, a few balls of butter (rolled in flour) to thicken the gravy, two tablespoonfuls of ketchup. Leave in the oven for an hour or two, with the lid on the tin. Serve with little rissoles made from the trimmings fried in lard. Very good. FISH (STEWED, OR IN AN OVEN). (An old Dutch Recipe.) Put your fish (mackerel, or Cape “silver-fish,” or young “ cabeljou ”) in a tin baking-pan, with a good spoonful of butter; dredge with flour, and pepper, and salt; add one tablespoonful chopped onion and some parsley, one blade 7i72 F] FLAVOURING MIXTURE—FOWL (BOILED). of mace, one tablespoonful of anchovy essence, or two table- spoonfuls tomato sauce, one cup of water. Put the pan into the oven, letting it stew for twenty minutes, and serve. (Can be done in a baking-pot as well.) Is very nice for lunch or “ high tea FLAVOURING MIXTURE. Ingredients. ^ oz. Nutmeg. i oz. Cloves. goz. Mace. 5 oz. each of Thyme, Marjoram, 1 oz. White Pepper. ~ Basil. £ oz. Bay Leaves. Thoroughly dry all, and pound fine. Cork well. Useful in forcemeats, pies, soups, etc. FORCEMEAT, OR STUFFING. v (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) A little parsley (cut fine), three ounces of beef suet, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel, bread-crumbs, one egg. Moisten, if necessary, with a little milk. If to be eaten cold, use butter instead of beef suet. FOWLS.—See also Chicken and “Gesmoorde Hoender.” FOWL {BOILED). After the fowl is nicely stuffed and trussed, tie it into a floured cloth, put into a stewing-pan, cover with hot water, let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half; put it on a hot dish, and pour over it a white sauce or a little chopped parsley and butter. Serve with tongue or ham. Garnish the dish with nicely grilled bacon. (Take care the water boils before the fowl is put in.)73 FOWL (FRICASSEED—ROAST). [F FOWL (FRICASSEED). Ingredients. The remains of Cold Roast Fowl, i strip of Lemon-Peel, i Blade of pounded Mace, i bunch of savoury Herbs, i Onion. Pepper and Salt, x Pint Water, i teaspoonful of Flour. J pint of Cream. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. Divide remains of fowl into nice little joints ; make gravy of the trimmings and legs by stewing them with lemon-peel, mace, herbs, onion, seasoning, and water, until reduced to half a pint; when strained, put in fowl. Warm through and through, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour ; stir the yolks of eggs into the cream. Let it get thoroughly hot, but do not boil. Time, one hour to make the gravy, a quarter of an hour to warm the fowl. FOWL (ROAST). (The old Cape way, in a baking-pot.) Ingredients. 2 young Fowls killed the day before. A few slices of Bacon. 1 oz. of Butter and Fat. After having carefully picked, and singed the small feathers by burning a clean paper over the fowl, cut off the neck and skewer the skin down over the back. Cut off the claws, dip the legs in boiling water, scrape them, and turn the pinions under; run a skewer through them and the middle of the leg through the body, to the pinion and leg on the other side. The liver and gizzard should be placed in the wings, liver on one side, gizzard on the other. Tie the legs together by passing a trussing-needle, threaded with twine, through the backbone, and securing on the other side. Now place your chickens, with the breast down, in a baking-pot; if not quite young and tender put half a pint of water in the pot, also a little of the butter and fat. In an hour’s time turn the chickens Pepper and Salt. A glass of Wine.FOWL SAUTE—FOWLS (STEWED). F] 74 over, put over them some more butter and fat, and a glass of wine. Put on the outside of the lid of the baking-pot some coals of wood fire. When the chickens are nice and brown, send them in. Garnish with some fried bacon, and serve with bread sauce. Time, about one hour and a half. FOWL SAUTE (WITH GREEN PEAS OR MUSHROOMS). (An Entree.) Ingredients. The remains of Cold Roast Chicken. i dessertspoonful of Flour. i oz. Butter. J a pint of weak Stock. A saltspoonful of Pepper. Salt. i pint of Green Peas. A little Nutmeg. x teaspoonful of Sugar. Cut up the fowl into nice pieces, put it into a stewing- pan with the butter, let it fry a nice brown, having sprinkled it with pepper and salt. Dredge in the flour, shake the ingredients well about, then add the stock and peas. Stew till the latter are tender, which will be twenty minutes. Arrange the chicken round and the peas in the middle. Mushrooms may be substituted for peas. FOWLS (STEWED). (My Mother’s Recipe. The Cape way of cooking a pair of young Fowls.) Ingredients. 2 nice young Fowls. A tablespoonful of Butter and one of Fat. 2 Onions. i wineglass of White Wine. A blade of Mace. 2 oz. of Vermicelli. About 1 dozen Allspice and x dozen 1 oz. of Macaroni. Pepper put into a tiny muslin bag. Stuffing for the Chicken. Have your chickens nicely cleaned and singed. Set them on a slow fire in a flat baking-pot with a cup of water, two or three white onions (only peeled and slit across the top), the little bag of spice, and the butter and fat. Let it simmer for an hour (the chicken to be skewered and stuffed with the ordinary stuffing used for turkey,75 “FRICKADEL ”—“ FRICKADELS ”—FRIED BREAD. [F etc.), turning the breast downwards. When nearly done, stir in the vermicelli and macaroni. Add a little white stock if necessary. Remove the bag of spice and place the fowls on a dish, and just before serving whip up an egg with a glass of wine or some lemon juice, and pour over the chickens. Serve. Very good. “FRICKADEL” (OR SAVOURY RISSOLES). (Dutch Recipe.) Ingredients. Some Minced Mutton (raw is nicer A slice or two of White Bread, than cooked), seasoned well with soaked in Milk. Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg. A tablespoonful Tomato Sauce. A suspicion of Onion. x Egg. For i lb. of Meat—a quarter of a Nutmeg, half a teaspoonful of Pepper and Salt. Mix all well together, roll in round shapes, put in egg and bread-crumbs, fry in hot fat. Stewed in a rich curry sauce, this is a nice entree. “ FRICKADELS I (Cape Recipe.) First stew the Frickadel in a rich stock, in which a slice of browned onion has been put; when nearly done, add mushrooms, and let it stew gently, with a good lump of butter. With mushrooms they are most delicious. FRIED DREAD. (A homely dish.) Take slices of brown bread, fry them a nice brown with some dripping (either mutton, beef, or chicken) ; serve warm with pepper. Very nice for breakfast.FRITTERS (BEEF—INDIAN). F] 76 FRITTERS {BEEF). Ingredients. Some Cold Roast Beef. A cupful of Water. io oz. Flour. Whites of 2 Eggs. 2 oz. Butter. Salt, Pepper, a scraping of Nutmeg. Mix to a smooth batter the flour, with water or milk; melt the butter, stir into the flour with the whites of two eggs, whisked. Shred the beef as thin as possible, season to your taste, and add it to the batter; mix all well together, and drop with a spoon into boiling dripping or lard. Drain well from the fat. Serve hot. Skim milk can be used instead of water, and by substi- tuting half a teaspoonful of soda, no eggs need be used for the batter. FRITTERS {BEEF). (Another mode.) Take slices from the undercut of sirloin ; flavour the batter with a seasoning of pepper, pounded allspice, and salt, and dip the slices of beef in it, and fry in boiling lard a nice brown. Take care the meat is well covered with batter. FRITTERS {INDIAN). « Ingredients. 3 tablespoonfuls of Flour. The Whites of 2 Eggs. The Yolks of 4 Eggs. Hot Lard, or Clarified Dripping. Put the flour in a basin, and mix with it enough boiling water to make a stiff paste ; stir all the time, to prevent its getting lumpy. Let it cool a little, then break into it the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two ; stir all well together. Have ready some boiling lard or clarified dripping; drop a dessertspoonful of batter at a time, and fry the fritters a light brown. They should rise like balls. Time, five or eight minutes to fry. Sufficient for four or five people.77 FRITTERS (ANOTHER WAY—ORANGE—POTATO). [F FRITTERS (ANOTHER WAY). (A very cheap Cape Recipe.) Ingredients. cupfuls of Flour. Ginger. Skim Milk. i teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Mix well with the flour a pinch of salt, half a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, a little pounded ginger, about a cupful of thick milk ; mix into a nice smooth paste. Have ready some boiling lard or clarified dripping, and drop in the paste ; each small spoonful will rise into a ball. Serve hot, with sugar and lemon. FRITTERS (ORANGE). Mix with eight ounces of flour two ounces of butter, then add one pint of water, then the whites of two eggs, to make a batter. Peel three large oranges, cut across, and take out seeds, cut in slices, dip each slice into the thick batter, fry, serve with sugar. Slices of cold plum pudding fried in batter in this way make delicious fritters. FRITTERS (POTATO). (Bessie’s Recipe.) Ingredients. J doz. Large Mealy Potatoes (mashed). 2 Eggs. 1 tablespoonful of Fine Flour. A little Salt. 1 tablespoonful of Butter) or Cream. 1 teaspoonful of Cinnamon. Mix all well together, make in little flat cakes, fry in boiling lard or clarified dripping. Serve with sugar and cinnamon. A similar recipe for “ sweet potatoes,” half a pound of which will be required (boiled and mashed), and two spoonfuls of cream, instead of one. If eggs are scarce, use half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, instead of the two eggs.F] FRITTERS (PUMPKIN). FRITTERS 0PUMPKIN). Stew a sweet pumpkin; when soft, add a few ounces of flour to thicken it. For two cups of pumpkin take a good slice of white bread, soaked in milk and squeezed very dry. Mix well together with a pinch of salt, some cinnamon, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Fry in boiling fat. Serve hot, with sugar and cinnamon.83 G. GESMOORDE HOENDER. (An old-fashioned Dutch Entree. A Malay Recipe. Mrs. D. Cloete.) Ingredients. A young Fowl. White Pepper. 2 large White Onions. A Green Chilli. A little Nutmeg. Salt. 2 oz. Butter. Fry your onions a golden brown in some butter or fat. Then cut the chicken in nice little joints, let them brown in a little butter. It must be done quickly, take care not to burn. Then add the onions, an idea of nutmeg, some pepper, half a cup of water ; let it simmer for an hour. Just before dishing add a green chilli cut up. Toss it about well. The chilli gives a most delicate flavour. Should the chicken look dry, add a little stock. Enough for six people. Very good. GINGER BEER. (Mrs. J. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 5 lb. Sugar. i lb. Ginger, bruised. J a bucket of boiled Water. Put into a small cask, let it draw for a day, then fill with cold water, a bottle of yeast, two packets of cream of tartar. Two days after, it may be bottled. If yeast is not to be had, add two bottles of beer instead. GINGER BEER. (Another Recipe.) Ingredients. 8 Lemons. 3 tdblespoonfuls Cream of Tartar. 3 lb. Sugar. i bottle of Brandy. i cup Pounded Ginger. Mix all well together, pour into a small cask, fill with water. Leave for two days, shaking well ; bottle the third. G 284 G] GRAPES IN BRANDY—GRAPE JAM—GINGER POP. GRAPES IN BRANDY. (Mrs. Cloete’s Recipe.) Take nice ripe Hanepot grapes, cut them with a piece of the stalk, prick with a steel pin ; fill ajar. Then take VERY thick syrup, previously boiled, two cups of syrup to one of good spirits of wine. Fill the jars, cover well; tie down with bladder. GRAPE JAM. (Home Recipe.) Ingredients. 4 lb. Fruit. i lb. Sugar. Carefully pick the grapes from the bunches, prick with a steel pin. Boil a syrup of the sugar, put the grapes into the boiling syrup. Some sliced apple or quince may be added to the grapes, for every pound of quince one of sugar, some cut-up orange-peel. Boil rather quickly at first. Take some of the preserve and lay it on a saucer to cool to see if it is ready ; if so it will jelly. GINGER POP. (Admiral Etheridge.) Ingredients. 2 lb. of Lump Sugar. 2 oz. best Ginger, cut or bruised. 2 Lemons (Juice and Peel). 2 gallons of boiling Water. 1 oz. Cream of Tartar. When cool add a tablespoonful of yeast on toast. Let it stand for twelve hours. Strain through a coarse cloth and bottle, tying the corks down. The white of one egg well beaten, and added just before corking, is a great improvement for using soon. Three days will do.L89 H. HAMS (.HOW TO CURE THEM). (Proved by long experience to be an excellent Recipe.) After cutting the hams, rough-salt them for a night, letting all the water drain away. For a ham weighing twelve or fourteen pounds take as follows: two pounds of salt, one pound brownest sugar, two ounces saltpetre, four ounces black pepper, four ounces allspice, and a handful of coriander seeds. Bruise the spices and saltpetre, mix all well with the salt, and have the ham rubbed well with the hand and a little flat stone for half an hour every day for three days, till the skin feels soft, and the salt, etc., looks like a creamy substance. In rubbing divide the salt, sugar, etc., into portions, and take a fresh portion every time, taking care to turn the ham skin downwards, and cover with the salt, etc. When all has been used, and the ham rubbed three days, take all the brine that has formed and boil it with two pints of vinegar and two pints of good ale. Skim it well, and when cool pour over the ham, leaving it in this pickle for a month. Then dry it, put under a press, brush with a little tar mixed with treacle and some bran. Smoke for three weeks, and hang in a cool, dry place. The above pickle does beautifully for sides of bacon, or any other pork that has to be smoked. When wanted for use, before boiling soak the ham for a night, simmer gently for three or four hours. Let your water boil before putting in the ham, and then gently simmer.H] HAM TOAST—HAM—HARE (JUGGED). 90 HAM TOAST. (Breakfast Dish.) Chop up some lean ham, put into a pan with a lump of butter, a little pepper, and two well-beaten eggs. When well warmed spread on hot buttered toast. Serve. Another similar breakfast dish is as follows : Put into a stewpan three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, some grated tongue, beef, pepper, and salt. When hot put in four eggs, well beaten; stir all the time till the mixture is quite thick. Have some buttered toast, spread the mixture on, and send to table very hot. HAM.—See Omelet (Ham). HARE (JUGGED). 1 Hare. A few Sweet Herbs. 2 Onions. 4 Cloves. 6 Whole Allspice. Ingredients. teaspoonful of Black Pepper, A strip of Lemon-Peel. Thickening of Butter and Flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Ketchup. J pint of Port or other dark Wine. Skin and wash the hare nicely ; cut it up into joints, not too large ; dredge with flour, and fry in butter a nice brown ; then put into a stewing-pan with the herbs, onions, cloves, allspice, pepper, and lemon-peel; cover with hot water, and when it boils carefully remove all the scum, and let it simmer gently till tender (which will be in about one hour and three-quarters if the hare is old). Then take out the pieces of hare, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, add the ketchup and port wine, let it boil ten minutes; strain through a sieve on the pieces of hare. Let it simmer for two minutes, so as to be nice and warm. A few forcemeat balls (see Forcemeat Recipe) stewed in the gravy ten minutes before dishing, is an improve- ment. Serve with quince or red currant jelly.91 HARICOT—HASH OF COLD MUTTON OR BEEF. [H HA RJ COT. (Cape name, “ Huspot.”) Ingredients. 4 lb. of Shoulder, or best end 4 Carrots. of Neck of Mutton. Some Sugar Loaf Cabbage. 1 Onion. About a cup of Green Peas. 3 or 4 Potatoes. Some Salt and Cayenne Pepper. Put the mutton in a flat stewing-pot, let it fry a pale brown (but do not cook enough for eating) with the onion cut in slices; then cover the meat with layers of the vegetables cut in slices ; add a cup of water. Cover the pot, and let it stew gently for two or three hours. This is a delicious dish. HASH OF COLD MUTTON OR BEEF. (A cheap gravy for hashes, etc.) / Ingredients. Bones and Trimmings of a cold joint intended for hashing. J teaspoonful of Salt. J teaspoonful of Whole Pepper. \ teaspoonful of Allspice. Some savoury Herbs. 1 Fried Onion. 1 Carrot. 1 oz. Butter. Flour, for thickening. Sufficient Water to cover the bones well. Chop the bones very fine; put into a stewing-pan with salt, pepper, spices ; cover with boiling water. Let the whole simmer gently for two hours. Slice and fry onions till a pale brown, and mix with gravy made from the bones ; boil a little while, strain, and put back into the saucepan. Thicken with a little flour rubbed in butter, or a little plain browned flour, a pinch of brown sugar, and some tomato sauce. Let it all boil well. Lastly put in your nicely cut-up meat, taking care that it never boils, or it immediately becomes hard. Serve with toast round the dish, or fried sippets. A little cayenne pepper is very nice in hashes. Time for gravy, about two or more hours.92 H] HERRINGS—“HONING KOEK,” OR HONEY CAKE. HERRINGS. (Cape “ Harders.” Mrs. Fleming.) Roast on a gridiron; serve with a little butter, chopped parsley, vinegar, or lemon juice. Very good. “HONING KOEK” OR HONEY CAKE. (Old Dutch Recipe.) Ingredients. 6 lb. of Flour. 2 lb. Sugar, ij quart bottles of Honey. Boil sugar and honey together ; add one dessertspoon- ful cloves, two dessertspoonfuls cinnamon, pounded ; re- move from the fire. Add the weight of an egg in potash, and one wineglass of brandy. Mix the flour with two teaspoonfuls of soda ; then mix the hot syrup and flour well together, working the dough well with the hands; roll out thinly. Put into a buttered pan and bake in a slow oven for one hour. Cut into squares. Preserved citron, cut into strips and mixed with the dough, improves the flavour. One-quarter of this quantity enough for a small family. Will keep for some time.HOME REMEDIES. [H 93 HOME REMEDIES. TO STOP BLEEDING FROM THE NOSE. A teaspoonful of cream of tartar in a tumbler of water, taken, will almost immediately stop the bleeding. FOR BRUISES OR SPRAINS. Bathe with hot water as soon as it can possibly be procured, and as hot as can be borne. Go on for an hour or more. FOR BURNS AND SCALDS. Common whiting mixed with water to the consistency of cream, spread on linen, laid over the part scalded or burnt, gives instantaneous relief. To be kept moist by occasional sprinkling. Another excellent remedy is the following: Take equal quantities of lime water and raw linseed oil, mix well together, and rub over the scald or burn. Lime water is made by mixing three tablespoonfuls of lime with a quart of boiling water. Shake well, and let it stand for a day or two. Pour off when clear, and mix with linseed oil in equal quantities. Keep in readiness. No house ought ever to be without it. FOR CHAPPED HANDS. I (A Country Remedy. Bessie’s.) Take equal quantities of glycerine, castor oil, spirits of wine (tablespoonful of each), ditto goat lard (buck fat); a piece of beeswax the size of a walnut, half an ounce of camphor (dissolved in eau de cologne and spirits of wine), the juice of a lemon. Melt the beeswax and goat lard, stir with the castor oil, then the glycerine ; then remove from the fire, stir in the camphor (dissolved in the spirits of wine), then the spoonful of eau de cologne, and lastly the juice of the lemon. Stir all well together till quite cold. Put into pomade pots. Will keep for years.H] HOME REMEDIES. 94 HOME REMEDIES (continued). FOR CHILBLAINS. Make a paste of powdered alum and milk ; spread on the affected part. FOR CORNS AND BUNIONS. Apply small strips of soap plaster. FOR CROUP. Scrape a teaspoonful of alum with twice the quantity of sugar. Administer as quickly as possible. Almost instantaneous relief will follow. FOR CROUP OR COLD. Mix the yolk of an egg with two teaspoonfuls of sweet oil, two of brown sugar, and one of vinegar. A tea- spoonful taken twice a day. Hot flannels, dipped in vinegar, applied to the chest and back, give great relief in cases of croup. FOR CROUPY COUGH—FOR CHILDREN. Ingredients. 15 drops of Ipecacuanha Wine. 10 drops of Paregoric. For a child of four or five. Given at night. FOR CROUPY COUGH, OR HOARSENESS IN CHILDREN. Take equal quantities of milk or flour of sulphur and glycerine. A small quantity put into a child’s throat soothes it. Every two or three hours. FOR SLIGHT CUTS AND FLESH WOUNDS. (H. D.) The moment you cut your hand, etc., saturate some lint or old linen with spirits of wine, or turpentine. It smarts for a few minutes, but instantly stops the bleeding; and in a very short time the place will be healed up.[H HOME REMEDIES. 95 HOME REMEDIES (continued). FOR CAPE DISTEMPER IN DOGS. (Homoeopathic.) One dot of nux vomica once a week regularly before the dog shows symptoms of the disease. Young dogs generally get it early in the spring. When the disease shows— which will be perceived by the gums being white, and the eyes weak, and the dog has no appetite—give one dot or drop of the tincture of nux three times a day for three days. Then give arsenicum three times a day, one dot or drop ; then pulsatilla, one dot three times a day. The dog to be kept very warm; fed on lukewarm water and brown bread. If he is very weak, give beef tea three times a day. FOR ECZEMA—A SIMPLE CURE. Take equal proportions of glycerine and castor oil, stir well till it becomes the consistency of thick honey, and apply to the affected part. Most excellent. FOR HORSES SEIZED WITH VIOLENT SPASMS OR COLIC. (From Dr. Hiddingh.) Ingredients. 40 drops of Oil of Peppermint. \ pint Whisky. 50 ,, Laudanum. \ pint of Hot Water. Shake all these well together in a soda-water bottle and give to the horse. If necessary, repeat the dose after half an hour. This remedy has never failed when given in time. Horses very often are seized with colic in South Africa when fed on green forage in the spring and when tra- velling. INSECTS. (To kill insects on Orange or Rose trees.) Take a quart of paraffine oil, four pounds of soft soap, and ten quarts of water. Pour some boiling water into an iron pot, stir some soft soap into the water, then mix with the paraffine. Apply with a brush.HOME REMEDIES. HJ 96 HOME REMEDIES (continued). FOR LUMBAGO. Ingredients. i tablespoonful of Flour of Sulphur. i tablespoonful of Paraffine. Mix well together into a salve, spread on a linen rag, and put over the affected part. Put a piece of brown paper over it, and some flannel; leave for half an hour or more. When taken off, powder the place if very red, put cotton wool over it, and keep warm. Very effectual. FOR MOSQUITO OR GNAT BITES. Make a very strong solution of alum water, add one- fourth of aromatic vinegar, and one-fifth of glycerine. Shake well before using. It will instantly cure the bite. FOR RHEUMATISM (A GOOD LINIMENT TO RUB ON). (Mrs. Fleming.) Ingredients. i Egg well beaten. i oz. Spirits of Wine. ^ pint of Vinegar. i oz. Spirits of Turpentine. J oz. Camphor. These ingredients to be well mixed together and put into a bottle and shaken for ten minutes, after which to be well corked to exclude the air. In half an hour it will be ready for use. Directions.—To be well rubbed on the affected part three or four times a day, for ten or fifteen minutes at a time. First dissolve the camphor in the spirits of wine, then add the other ingredients. FOR RHEUMATISM—ANOTHER LINIMENT. (From Pretoria.) Equal quantities of carbonate of soda, spirits of turpentine, cocoanut oil. Put in a saucepan over the fire, stir till well mixed ; strain, bottle. Rub in morning and evening.[H HOME REMEDIES. HOME REMEDIES (continued). FOR NEURALGIA. Take a drachm of citrate of quinine and iron to a bottle of water. Take a tablespoonful in water three times a day. FOR WHITE SORE THROAT. Take half an ounce of chloride of potash, dissolved in a quart bottle of water. One tablespoonful three times a day. For a child of seven or eight, four grains of chloride of potash, in a little water, four times a day. FOR SORE THROAT—ANOTHER REMEDY. Four drops of sulphuric acid in a wineglass of water three or four times a day. I have heard that burning equal quantities of tar and turpentine (about two tablespoonfuls of each in a tin cup or pan) in the room of the patient suffering from diphtheria gives great relief. Families living far from medical aid should always keep Swedish tar, turpentine, and sulphuric acid in their houses. FOR DIPHTHERIC THROAT—GARGLE. A few drops of a strong solution of permanganate of potash, in water, make an excellent gargle. FOR SPASMS, OR ANY INTERNAL PAINS. Put a quarter of a pound of mixed cloves and allspice, some ginger, and cinnamon, on a quart bottle of the best brandy; let it stand in the sun, or by the fire, for a few days, till all the goodness is drawn out of the spices. Dose for an adult, one teaspoonful; for a child, ten drops in wineglass of water; or dropped on hot flannel, and applied externally, it will be found very effectual also. H 37HOME REMEDIES. H] HOME REMEDIES (continued). FOR STYES. Beat up the white of an egg with alum till it forms a paste. Put in a muslin bag, and apply. FOR TOOTHACHE. Two drops of glycerine and one drop of pure carbolic, on cotton wool, put into the cavity of the affected tooth. Excellent. ANOTHER. Equal quantities of table salt (powdered) and alum, mixed dry on cotton wool. Put in the tooth on cotton wool. TURPENTINE PLASTER, OR “ VERDWYN PLAISTER.” (Mrs. Hopley. Dutch Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 2 tablespoonfuls Beeswax. 2 tablespoonfuls Spirits of Turpentine. A piece of Resin the size of a walnut. Melt the wax, stir in the olive oil, the resin, and lastly the turpentine. Stir till cold. Excellent for bruises, sprains, sore breasts. In cases of cancer it has given relief, being very soothing to pain. FOR WHOOPING COUGH. (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Sunflower seeds, browned as you would coffee, made as you do coffee. Sweeten the decoction, and let the child drink it freely, and especially at night. FOR WHOOPING COUGH—AN EXCELLENT LINIMENT. (Mrs. Myburgh.) Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful of Rum. I a tablespoonful Spirits of Turpentine. 1 tablespoonful of Honey. Mix well together, rub on chest, back, and soles of feet three times a day.I l II 105 I. ICE.—See Iced Chocolate Cream. ICING FOR CAFES. (Mrs. D. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. i lb. Icing Sugar. Whites of 3 Eggs. Whisk the eggs to a stiff froth and gradually sift in the sugar. Beat the mixture well, until the sugar is smooth ; then with a broad knife lay the icing equally over the cake, laying on one layer first, and allowing it to get firm in a cool oven before you put on the next layer, and so on. The icing may be coloured with a little cochineal or currant juice. Spinach juice gives a nice green colour. For a sponge cake the icing may be flavoured with orange or vanilla. Dry the icing in a cool oven before sending to table. For ornamental icing put layer of white sugar icing first, then mix a little cochineal with some icing. Make a kind of cornucopia of paper, leaving a small hole at the bottom; fill with the red icing, and press it out at the hole, when it can be guided into patterns or raised in dots, etc. Or ornamental squeezers can be got at iron- mongers’ for this purpose. For a sponge cake flavoured with orange, it makes a nice change to put a layer of marmalade over the cake, and the icing, also flavoured with orange, over that.106 I] ICING FOR CAKES (ALMOND)—IRISH STEW. ICING FOR CAKES {ALMOND). Ingredients. i lb. Almonds. § lb. finely pounded Loaf Sugar. Whites of 2 Eggs. Blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding a little cold water or white of egg during the pounding to keep the almonds from oiling. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix with the almonds, beat well together to a smooth paste. Ice the cake with a broad knife, adding layer upon layer, allowing it to dry in between. ICE (COCOANUT). Ingredients. i Cocoanut grated. lb. White Sugar. Milk of the Cocoanut. First put the sugar in an enamelled saucepan on the fire, with two tablespoonfuls of the milk. When the sugar is dissolved, add the cocoanut and boil ten minutes. Take care it does not burn. Oil a tin well, and pour in the mixture, colouring half with cochineal. Leave in mould till cold. IRISH STEW. Ingredients. 3 lb. Loin or Neck of Mutton. 3 Onions. 5 lb. Potatoes. Pepper, Salt. Rather more than one pint of Water. Cut the mutton into chops of moderate thickness, pare and slice the potatoes, and cut the onions in rings. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of the stewing-pan, then a layer of mutton and onions ; season with pepper and salt. Proceed in this manner till all is used. Take care to have plenty of vegetables at the top. Pour in the water, and let it stew gently for two and a half hours, keeping the lid of the stewing - pan closely shut. Occasionally shake the pot to prevent burning.IRISH STEW (ANOTHER WAY). [I 107 IRISH STEW (ANOTHER WAY). (Our Cape Recipe.) Take ribs of mutton, three or four pounds, brown slightly with a little onion, then add a good soup-plate of potatoes sliced, a piece of red chilli. Cover the meat with the potatoes, and simmer for two hours. Leave the meat whole, only joint it.INVALID COOKERY. I] 108 INVALID COOKERY. BARLEY WATER. Take half a cup of pearl barley, wash well, and boil in the same way as the receipt for a pleasant gruel; but will require a longer time—one hour. Sweeten to taste, and add orange or lemon. BEEF TEA. Cut up the meat in small pieces, putting it in a jar till the juice is extracted. The jar to be corked and kept in a saucepan of boiling water for two hours. A little isin- glass increases the nourishment. A teaspoonful at a time. RAW BEEF TEA. Take an ounce of raw beef, from the shin or rump (freshly killed). Mince very fine, put into a cup with a tablespoonful of cold water, let it stand for a quarter of an hour, strain, and give a teaspoonful at a time. VERY STRONG BEEF TEA (ANOTHER^. Mince two pounds of lean beef or mutton, put it into a jar without water (closely covered), stand it in an oven for an hour and a half till every drop of gravy is out of the meat. Mix this rich stock with boiling water to the proper strength required. “ biltong” {See “Biltong” recipe, earlier in the book) is both appetising and nourishing for invalids.[I INVALID COOKERY. 109 INVALID COOKERY (continued). MUTTON BROTH. Ingredie?its. 2 lb. of Scra.s: End, or Neck of Mutton. i tablespoonful of Pearl Barley. 2 quarts of Water. A Carrot, or Turnip. Boil all well together for three hours or more; strain through a kitchen strainer. The neck of mutton makes a more tasty broth than the same quantity of beef. CHICKEN BROTH. (H. D.) Take an old fowl; cut very small ; set on the fire with two quarts of cold water, a few peppercorns, allspice, and salt. Let it boil slowly, in a closed-up pot, till the chicken is in shreds. Strain ; may be thickened with a little vermi- celli, if liked. Will take four hours. The yolk of an egg, whipped up with a little lemon juice, stirred into the broth just before serving, is both nourishing and appetising. A MUTTON CHOP. (From the undercut.) Take a slice from the undercut of a saddle of mutton, sprinkle with pepper, and grill on a very hot gridiron, turn- ing frequently. Don't put a fork into it. When done, rub a little bit of fresh butter on it, and some salt. It’will be found delicate and tasty. Serve very hot. The chop may also be cut out of the middle of a leg of mutton. CHICKEN CREAM OR MINCE. Take a nice young fowl; boil it in a cloth. When done, take the breast and upper part of the leg ; minceI] INVALID COOKERY. INVALID COOKERY (continued). and pound in a mortar. Chop up the rest of the chicken, with all the bones broken ; put into a stewpan with a quart of water, a few allspice, a little nutmeg and pepper; let it stew to a pint or less ; rub the minced chicken through a sieve into the gravy, after it has been strained. Thicken with two spoonfuls of good fresh cream, or a little maizena, rubbed in a pat of butter — not too rich. This mixture can be heated in a mug in a saucepan of boiling water. Don’t forget a little salt. Two or three spoonfuls may be taken by an invalid. EGG AND SHERRY. Whisk up the white of an egg to a stiff froth; take a wineglass of sherry and a little sugar; whisk all up well. Both nourishing and pleasant. EGG SILKY. Whisk the yolk, or the whole egg, very well; grate a little nutmeg on it ; take a good teaspoonful of sugar, stir well together; pour in gradually about half a tumbler of boiling water; lastly, add half a wineglass of whisky. This is an excellent mixture for a cold. A PLEASANT GRUEL. Take a small cup of good wheaten bran, mix with a little cold water, then stir into two quarts of boiling water, into which a stick of cinnamon has been put; let it boil for half an hour, till sufficiently thick; strain, and when to be taken add a teaspoonful of lemon or orange and as much sugar as you like. Good for colds. no[I INVALID COOKERY. INVALID COOKERY (continued). STRENGTHENING JELLY. Ingredients. i oz. Gum Arabic. 1 a Nutmeg, grated. Sugar to taste. x pint of Port Wine. 2 oz. Isinglass. 2 oz. White Wine. Put these ingredients in a jar, tie it over; put the jar into a saucepan of warm water, let it remain in the saucepan till all is dissolved ; it must be stirred constantly. When cold it will be a firm jelly. Give the invalid a piece the size of a nutmeg at a time. Take the juice of two oranges, and peel of one, the yolks of four eggs, an ounce of isinglass (or a stiff jelly, procured from calves’ feet or sheep’s trotters, about one pint), half a pint of sherry or white wine, one wineglass of good cognac, ten cloves, a little cinnamon, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir all well together, put into a stewpan. When it boils up draw it aside for five minutes ; pour in two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Strain through a jelly-bag. Use good sherry, and freshly laid eggs. Boil two knuckles of veal in three quarts of milk till reduced to a half. Flavour with a little mace or nutmeg, salt to be added when done. Half this quantity does at a time. Take two pounds of good lean mutton or beef. Pass twice through a mincing-machine so that every particle is well mashed. Set it on the fire with two quarts of water. Let it boil slowly for three hours or more, so that it is reduced to one quart or less. Add salt, and any flavouring that is liked ; a few peppercorns and allspice. Strain through a gravy strainer before serving. A WINE JELLY FOR INVALIDS. STRENGTHENING SOUP. SOUP FOR INVALIDS. (Dr. Versfeld.)I] INVALID COOKERY. 112 INVALID COOKERY (continued). CUSTARD PUDDING. Few invalids ever tire of the plain, old-fashioned custard pudding made in this way : Two eggs, well whipped, mixed with one pint of milk and a spoonful of sugar; bake in an oven, standing the basin in a tin dish with water in it to prevent it curding. The Schaum pudding (see PUDDINGS) is another favourite with most people.117 J. N.B.—All jams and preserves when made should be put in glass bottles or china pots (previously well scalded). A round of silver paper, large enough to rest on the top of the jam and cover it, should then be dipped in brandy and laid on the jam, and the mouth of the jar neatly covered over with paper carefully pasted down to exclude the air, and the name and date of the preserve written upon it. JAM (LEMON). (An imitation of Scotch Marmalade.) Ingredients. 8 lb. of Carrots. 4 lb. Lemons (or Oranges, 8 lb. of Sugar. or Seville Oranges). First boil the oranges and carrots together till nearly soft, in water enough to cover them well. Pour off the water and keep on one side. Then mince all through the mincing-machine (seeds of the oranges as well). Add the sugar, and four or five cups of the water in which the oranges and carrots were boiled ; boil it till clear. Keep the lid on the pot at first, as it is apt to become dry. Before putting in the jam, take care to oil the preserving-pot with olive oil to prevent its burning. JAM (MELON). Ingredients. 6 lb. of ripe Melon, minced, or A small piece of bruised Ginger cut in thin slices. in a bag. 4 lb. of Sugar. After mincing the melon put into a preserving-pot (previously oiled). Let it just boil up, then add the sugar. Boil till clear, and the juice nice and thick. Stir repeatedly, or it will burn. Cork well.J] JAM (KAFFIR WATER MELON)—JELLY. 118 JAM (KAFFIR WATER MELON). Take twelve pounds of water melon, six pounds of sugar, mash through a mincing - machine; also three oranges. Boil up well, then add the sugar. Boil till clear. A very good jam. JAM (REACH). (Cape.) Peel and slice the “ Clingstone ” or yellow peach. Have ready a basin of water with a handful of salt in it, lay the sliced peaches for half an hour in this. Take one pound less sugar than fruit, oil the preserving-pot, put alternate layers of fruit and sugar and a few cups of water. Stew gently till clear, and the syrup thick. A delicious jam for breakfast or tea. JAM (QUINCE). (Mrs. Cloete’s Recipe.) Slice the quinces or pass through a mincing-machine, take the same weight of sugar as fruit. First oil your preserving-pot (very clean copper or enamelled), then put in the cut-up fruit. Add a few cups of water, let it boil for half an hour; then add the sugar, and boil till quite clear. JELLY. (Mrs. Daniel Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 oz. or ir. packet Gelatine, i lb. Brown Sugar, i pint Sherry. 1 pint Brandy. The Juice of 3 Oranges. 2 Lemons. The White and Shells of 4 Eggs. A few Cloves. 2 small pieces of Mace. 6 Cardamone Seeds. Soak the gelatine in one pint of cold water, then pour on half a pint of boiling water to dissolve the soaked gela- tine (in winter take one pint or the jelly will be too firm). Then add the other ingredients, and the whites of the eggs[J JELLY—JELLY (ASPIC). well whisked to a stiff froth. Boil on a brisk fire until the scum rises to the top of the saucepan. Have ready a tumbler of cold water, pour some of the water on the boiling jelly. Do this three times, letting it boil in be- tween. Remove from the fire, let it stand five minutes, strain through a jelly-bag into a mould, and turn out when cold. Very good. JELL V. (Mrs. Alexander Van der Byl’s Recipe.) 2 quart packets Gelatine. 6 Eggs. i tumbler Lemon Juice. 1 bottle Sherry. 2 wineglasses French Brandy. Ingredients. 12 tablespoonfuls of Brown Sugar. 15 Cloves. 2 sticks of Cassia (or Cinnamon). The Peel of 4 Lemons. The Shells of 3 Eggs broken quite fine. Put one cup of cold water on two quart packets of gelatine to soak ; when well soaked, pour in three cups of boiling water. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a froth ; then add wine, brandy, the lemon or orange peel, and all the other ingredients. Stir all the ingredients well. Let it boil up three times, take it from the fire, pour on it one cup of cold water, and let it stand for five minutes; then strain through jelly-bags till quite clear, and pour into moulds. Good. Half a tumbler of lemon and half orange juice may be used instead of one whole tumbler of lemon juice. JELLY (ASPIC). (Mrs. Cloete’s Recipe.) Two and a half ounces gelatine soaked in a cup of cold water ; one quart boiling water ; ten peppercorns ; ten allspice; two cloves; one onion; one dessertspoonful salt; two bay leaves; a small cup of malt vinegar ; one tablespoonful of Tarragon vinegar; juice of one lemon; whites of two eggs well whisked ; one tumbler of cold water, thrown in while boiling, to clarify. Strain through jelly-bag till clear. Enough for fourteen persons.J] JELLY (ANOTHER ASPIC—BLACKBERRY). 120 JELLY (ANOTHER ASPIC OR SAVOURY). 1 Calf’s Foot. 6 oz. of Ham. 2 lb. of Veal. i Large Carrot, i Small Onion, i bunch of Sweet Herbs. Ingredients. i blade of Mace, io Peppercorns. Whites of 2 Eggs, i teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar, i spoonful of Isinglass. Half a gallon of Water. Put about six ounces of ham, two pounds of knuckle of veal, and a calf’s foot (with the bone broken) into a stew- pan, with one large carrot, a small onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil it until reduced to one quart; strain it through a sieve. When cold, skim off all the fat, and put the jelly into a stewpan with the whites of two eggs (well whisked), and a teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar, and a spoonful of isinglass. Stir it until on the point of boiling, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently for nearly twenty minutes. Let it stand to settle, and then pour it through a jelly-bag until quite clear, when it will be fit to use for garnishing meat pies, etc. Time, one hour and a half. JELLY (BLACKBERRY), IN A MOULD. (Mrs. Jackson’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 lb. of Blackberries. J lb. of White Sugar. Joz. Gelatine. Extract the juice from the fruit by putting in the oven in a jar for a few hours; strain through a muslin bag placed over a cullender, or strainer. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a little water; add to the blackberry juice, with a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil all for half an hour. Put into a wet mould; turn out next day ; serve with cream. This will do for mulberries, only taking more sugar.121 JELLY (CALVES’ FOOT)—FRUIT IN JELLY. [J JELLY (CALVES’ FOOT). Take four calves’ feet, slit them in two, take away the fat from between the claws, wash them well in lukewarm water, then put them in a large stewpan, and cover them with water. When the liquor boils, skim it well, and let it boil gently six or seven hours, that it may be reduced to about two quarts, then strain it through a sieve, and skim all the oily substance which is on the surface of the liquor. If you are not in a hurry, it is better to boil the calves’ feet the day before you make the jelly, as, when the liquor is cold, the oily part being at the top, and the other being firm, you may remove every particle of the oily substance without wasting any of the liquor with pieces of kitchen paper applied to it. Put the liquor into a stewpan to melt, with a pound of lump sugar, the peel of two lemons, and the juice of six, the whites and shells of six eggs (beat together), and a bottle of sherry or madeira. Whisk the whole together until it is on the boil, then put it at the side of the stove, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour. Strain it through a jelly-bag ; what is strained first must be poured into the bag again, until it is as bright and as clear as spring water. Then put the jelly into moulds to get cold and firm. When it is required to be very stiff, half an ounce of isinglass may be added when the wine is put in. It may be flavoured by the juice of various fruits, etc., or spices, and coloured with saffron, etc. N.B.—Ten sheep’s trotters, which may be bought for twopence-halfpenny, will give as much jelly as a calf’s foot, which costs a shilling. FRUIT IN JELLY. Put an inch of jelly into a mould ; when set, arrange any fruit you like. Put spoonfuls of jelly in between, to keep it in place. It must be done slowly, allowing the jelly to set before adding the fruit. Fill up with jelly. It is an improvement to steep the fruit in maraschino, or brandy, before putting into the jelly.J] JELLY (GUAVA—MEDLAR—QUINCE). 122 JELLY [GUAVA). (Mrs. Hiddingh’s Recipe.) Take nice ripe guavas, pee] them, cut them through, and just cover them with water. When quite soft, pour them into a large, coarse bag, something like a jelly-bag; leave it to drain all night. Next day, convert into jelly by adding to every two cups of the juice, when it boils, one cup of sugar. Boil briskly till the consistency of jelly. Pour a little into a tumbler of cold water; if it does not mix with the water, it is ready to be poured into moulds or jars. JELLY {MEDLAR). (A Swellendam Recipe.) / Let the medlars be quite soft; cut off the tops, put in a preserving-pan, cover with water, boil six or eight hours slowly, strain through a coarse sieve. To every pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Boil over a quick fire, stirring all the time. When it thickens, drop on a plate ; if it jellies it is done. Or drop into a tumbler of cold water; if it does not mix with the water it is good. This jelly is delicious, and ought to be a clear amber colour. JELLY {QUINCE). (Mrs. Cloete’s, of Constantia, Recipe.) Take about twenty-five quinces, wipe them clean, cut in quarters, lay in a large preserving-pot, cover with water (about six quarts to twenty-five quinces) ; boil till quite soft, then strain through a thin cloth or coarse milk strainer. To three cups of juice take two of white sugar ; boil in small quantities on a brisk fire. When it begins to get thick, pour a little into a tumbler of water; and if it congeals, and does not mix with the water, it is ready to be put into moulds or cups. Cover with paper dipped in brandy, and keep in a dry place. Will keep for years.JUNKET. [J 123 JUNKET. (Mrs. Hiddingh’s Recipe.) Ingredients. i quart of Milk (new). i tablespoonful of Vanderhum. i oz. of White Sugar. i tablespoonful of Rennet. Take new milk, sweeten with one ounce of sugar, let it come to blood heat; flavour with a tablespoonful of Vander- hum (or rum), one tablespoonful of rennet. Stir well, and pour into a glass dish, which stand in a tin of warm water, so that the mixture remains lukewarm for half an hour, in which time it will become quite firm. Whisk up half a pint of cream with sugar and pour over the junket before serving./127 K. KABOBS.—See Sasaties. KEGEREE. (An Indian way of dressing cold boiled fish. Mrs. Christian’s Recipe.) Jib. of Boiled Fish. 2 Eggs. J lb. Rice. 2 oz. of Butter. A little Cayenne, Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg. Wash and boil the rice ; break the fish in pieces, taking out all the bones; put the butter, fish, and rice into a stew- pan with cayenne, salt, and a little nutmeg. Stir well, then add the eggs (well beaten). Stir over the fire until quite hot. Serve in a hot dish. A nice breakfast dish. KEGEREE (ANOTHER). (For Breakfast. Indian.) Ingredients. Any White Fish previously boiled. A lump of Fresh Butter. Pepper, Salt. Boil the rice very soft, and dry; boil the eggs hard, and chop them fine ; take the remains of any fish that has been previously boiled, mince fine, and mix all well together. Put the mixture in a stewing-pan with a lump of fresh butter, stew till thoroughly hot, stirring con- stantly to prevent burning, season with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Take care not to make it too moist. (Boiled snook or cabeljon, if at the Cape, or any white fish will do.) Time, six minutes alter the rice is boiled. 1 tablespoonful of Rice. 4 Flard-boiled Eggs.128 K] KIDNEYS (BROILED—STEWED)—KOESISTERS. KIDNEYS {BROILED). (For Breakfast.) Take four sheep’s kidneys; with a sharp knife cut each kidney open lengthways down to the root, but do not separate them ; skin them, and put a small skewer under the white part of each to keep them flat. Make the grid- iron warm and rub it over with butter ; place the kidneys with the inside downwards, and broil them over a clear fire. When sufficiently done on one side, turn on the other. Remove the skewers, season with pepper and salt, put a little piece of butter in the centre of each, and serve on a piece of well-buttered toast. They must be sent to table as hot as possible. KIDNEYS {STEWED). (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Parboil some sheep’s kidneys, divide them, toss in a pan with some pepper, salt, cayenne, and flour, and a piece of butter. Then take a few spoonfuls of stock, a little sherry, minced parsley, and half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Simmer gently {but do not boil) for fifteen minutes. KOESISTERS. (Old Dutch Recipe.) Ingredients. 3 breakfast-cups of Flour. i teaspoonful of Mixed Spices. 1 cup Brown Sugar. 4 Eggs well beaten. 2 tea.spoon.fuls of Cinnamon. Halt a cup of Fat and Butter melted. A good tablespoonful of Yeast. Knead all well together, and let it stand for half an hour, then roll out on a board made for the purpose.. Cui each about an inch and a half long, let them boil in fat. Then drain, put into a syrup made thus: boil three cups of sugar and one of water.K 2133 L. LAMB (STEWED WITH PEAS). Ingredients. The Scrag or Breast of Lamb, x quart of Green Peas. Salt, Pepper. A little Butter and Flour. A small Onion. Joint the breast of lamb, lay it in a stewing-pan with water enough to cover it. Slice the onion and put it over the meat. Cover the saucepan close, and let it stew or simmer for twenty minutes ; take off the scum. Add salt, and the quart of green peas (shelled). Cover the pot, and let it stew for half an hour. Work a spoonful of flour into a lump of butter, and stir into the stew ; add pepper, and let it stew for ten minutes longer. Time, one hour. Two tablespoonfuls of fine lime to a quart of boiling water. Mix well, and when the lime has drained to the bottom pour the clear water into a bottle ; cork and keep for use. A tablespoonful taken in milk is very good for indigestion. Cut four incisions in the oranges and squeeze them slightly, then let all soak together for ten days, then bottle. LIME WATER. LIQUEUR (ORANGE). (Mrs. Myberg Elsinberg. Old Dutch Recipe.) Ingredients. • 5 bottles of Brandy. 9 sweet Oranges (Peel and Juice). 4 lb. of white Loaf Sugar. A few sticks of Cinnamon.134 L] LIQUEUR (ANOTHER ORANGE—VANDERHUM). LIQUEUR {ANOTHER ORANGE). (Old country.) Peel very thinly ten oranges and ten lemons. Put the peel on four bottles of good Cape brandy, add four pounds of white sugar. Let it stand for eight or ten days, stirring every day, morning and evening. Strain and bottle. LIQUEUR (VANDERHUM). (Mrs. Cloete. Another old Recipe.) Dissolve three pounds of candied sugar in six bottles of good brandy (best Cango will do). Then mix with it one hundred cloves, a quarter of a pound of cinnamon, twelve tablespoonfuls of finely-cut naartje-peel, one nutmeg, a few cardamom seeds. Let ,it all stand for a month and a half, shaking occasionally, then bottle. Clarify through filtering papers. The brandy should not be weaker than twenty-two degrees, or the liqueur will not be clear. Also good. LIQUE UR (VA NDERHUM). (Old Recipe. Cape Speciality.) Ingredients. io bottles of Brandy. 50 Cloves. 10 dessertspoonfuls of Cinnamon just 20 tablespoonfuls of finely-cut Naartje- bruised. Peel. Half a Nutmeg. Mix all well together, and allow the ingredients to remain on the brandy for one month till all the virtue is extracted from it. Then take five pounds of clear light brown crystallised sugar, boil to a thick, rich syrup. When quite cold, mix one cup of syrup to two of the spiced brandy, stir well till quite mixed. Add one wineglass of best rum to every bottle of Vanderhum. The rum mellows the mixture. Put all back into a cask, and clarify with the whites of two eggs well whisked, and lightly put on the top of the cask. In three weeks it will be beautifully clear and ready for bottling. If made in small quantities, the brandy and spices can be put in jars well corked, and the spices in little bags. Very good.139 M. MACAROONS. (Mrs. Myburgh. A very old Dutch Recipe.) Take one pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, and one pound of sugar. Melt the sugar and almonds over the fire till quite a tough jelly. Then have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth, whip together when cold. This way of melting the sugar and almonds is excellent, as it prevents the macaroons from running together in the tins. Dust some fine cinnamon over. The old-fashioned way was to put a small piece of citron pre- serve on every cake. When pounding the almonds add a spoonful of rose-water. MACAROONS (.ANOTHER RECIPE). (Mrs. J. Cloete’s.) Ingredients. i lb. Almonds blanched and pounded. The Whites of 4 Eggs. 1 lb. sifted Sugar. \ teaspoonful of Cinnamon. Blanch and pound the almonds, adding a little rose- water while pounding. Mix with the sugar, which should be slightly warmed, then stir the whites of the eggs well whisked. Butter a paper and lay it on a baking-pan; with a fork put small lumps of the paste on the paper. Bake in a moderately slow oven for twenty minutes. A small piece of candied citron stuck into each little cake is a great improvement. Very good.140 M] MARMALADE (APRICOT—ORANGE—SCOTCH). MARMALADE OR CHEESE (APRICOT). (Cape. Mrs. Henry Cloete’s Recipe.) Two hundred apricots, wiped and cut into pieces, their weight in sugar. Slightly wipe the preserving-pan with Lucca oil. Put in the apricots, let them boil to a pulp, stirring all the time. Then add the sugar; stir well. Let the whole boil briskly till a clear golden brown. It is ready to dish when in passing a spoon through the mixture it opens dry from the pot as it were. Put into moulds or basins; keeps beautifully. Some of the pips blanched, and cut up in the marmalade, is liked by some people. Six pounds is a nice quantity to boil at a time. Use an enamelled or copper preserving-pan ; it will take about two hours altogether to preserve. MARMALADE (ORANGE). (Mrs. Shaw’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 12 large Oranges. -12 pints of Water. 8 lb. Sugar. Cut the oranges in thin slices, and then soak in water twenty-four hours. Then add the sugar, and boil until it becomes a jelly. Lemons may be done in the same way. MARMALADE (SCOTCH). (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 6 lb. of Seville or Bitter Orange. 12 lb. of Sugar. Scrape or grate the peel slightly; put the oranges into a stewpan; cover them with cold water. Boil gently for two hours, keeping them well under water with a plate on the top. When quite soft take them out andMAYONNAISE—“ MEBOS.” [M drain, open them, and take out the seeds. Cut the peel and pulp all together in thin strips (some people mince everything through a mincing-machine). For every pound of fruit, weighed after being boiled, take two of sugar, and one pint of the water the oranges were boiled in. Boil all together for half an hour, and pour the marmalade boiling hot into jars. MA YONNAISE. (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 Eggs. i teaspoonful of Sugar, Mustard, Some Lucca Oil. Cayenne. 2 tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. Some cold Chicken, i teaspoonful of Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of Cream. First prepare the following mayonnaise mixture : Beat the yolks of two eggs well; add gradually drop by drop Lucca oil, until it is worked into a stiff ball, then gradually add the vinegar, salt, mustard, and cayenne, until the sauce is thin enough to pour over the meat the consistency of cream. At the last moment before pouring over the meat, add two tablespoonfuls of cream. Sufficient for one mayonnaise. Remove all the meat from the bones, put into a pie- dish. Pour over it about a dessertspoonful of oil, a table- spoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of chopped onions, and some parsley, pepper, and salt. Leave this for half an hour. Remove the meat from this when you want to arrange the mayonnaise. Put alternate layers of meat, lettuce, beetroot on a dish, pouring the mayonnaise mix- ture over each layer. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, olives, anchovies. A few capers are an improvement. (See SAUCES for other recipes for Mayonnaise dressing.) “ MEBOSI—See Apricots (Dried and Salted).142 Mj MERINGUES-MINCEMEAT. ^ lb. of Sifted Sugar. MERINGUES. (Mrs. D. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. The Whites of 4 Eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and with a wooden spoon stir quickly the sugar in the whites. Have ready some thin wooden boards, cut strips of paper two inches wide. Place the paper on the board, and drop a tablespoonful of the mixture on the paper, taking care to let all the meringues be of the same size. In dropping it off the spoon, give them the shape of an egg (if a tablespoonful is taken and carefully turned over, it is egg- shaped). Keep them two inches apart. Strew over them sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. As they begin to colour, take them out of the oven. Take each slip of paper by the two ends, and turn it gently on the table, and with a small spoon take out the soft part of the meringue. Spread some clean papers on the board, turn the meringues upside down, and put them into the oven again to harden and brown on the other side. If kept in a dry place they will keep for weeks. When required for table, fill them with whipped cream flavoured with liqueur (Vanderhum) and vanilla. Join two of the meringues together, and pile them high on the dish. Great quickness is required in making meringues, for if they are not put into the oven as soon as they are mixed the sugar melts. The sweeter the meringues are made the crisper they will be; they are sometimes coloured with cochineal. This quantity will make two dozen. Mix all well together. To be made a month before it is used. It will keep for a year if well corked. MINCEMEA T. Ingredients. 1 lb. Beef Suet. 1 lb. Stoned Raisins cut in half, x lb. Currants. 2 lb. Apples chopped small. 2 lb. Castor Sugar. \ lb. Candied Peel. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 2 oz. Scotch Marmalade. 1 teaspoonfnl Powdered Cloves. \ pint of Brandy.143 MINCEMEAT (ANOTHER)—“ MOSS BOLLETJES.” [M MINCEMEAT {ANOTHER). (Mrs. Andrews’ Recipe.) Ingredients. 3 large Lemons. 3 large Apples, i lb. Stoned Raisins. Currants. lib. 1 lb. Chopped Suet. 2 lb. Moist Sugar. i oz. Sliced Candied Orange-Peel, i teacupful of Brandy. 2 tablespoonfuls Orange Marmalade. Grate the rind of the lemons, squeeze out the juice, strain it. Boil the remainder of the lemons until tender enough to pulp, also the apples, which are to be mashed. Add the other ingredients one by one ; mix all well to- gether, put into jars with closely covered lid. Excellent. “MOSS BOLLETJES” OF RAISINS. (An old Dutch Recipe. From Mrs. Moorries.) Ingredients. 2 lb. of Raisins. ij lb. Butter. 16 lb. Flour. i lb. Fat. 3^ lb. Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls Aniseed. 8 Eggs. 2 Nutmegs grated. 1 tablespoonful Cinnamon very finely pounded. “Moss Bolletje ”—so called from “Moss/'’ juice of the grape in its first stages of fermentation, and “ Bolletje,a bun. During the wine-making season the freshly fermented grape-juice is commonly used instead of yeast by the country people at Stellenbosch, French Hoek, etc., and very nice buns, etc., are made of it. When grapes are not to be had we take raisins, as in following recipe, and put them in a jar which is previously seasoned by having had fermented raisins or grapes in it. This jar is not washed with water, but generally dried in the sun and kept closely covered from dust, and only used for making the “moss” in, as one is so much surer of its fermenting in a given time if made in a seasoned jar or calabash. Cut the raisins or mince them, put them into a jar or calabash, with twelve cups of lukewarm water, on the stove or warmest part of your kitchen for twenty-four hours, till they ferment. Have ready the flour, in which, after being well mixed with the sugar, spices, etc., make a144 M] MUSHROOMS (FRIED—STEWED)—MUTTON. hole ; into this strain the fermented juice of the raisins. Sprinkle some flour over the top, and set to rise for some hours in a warm place. Then melt the butter and fat, warm the milk, whisk the eight eggs, yolks and whites separately. Mix the whole well together into a stiff dough, knead with the hand for quite three-quarters of an hour, let it stand over-night to rise. In the morning roll into buns, set in buttered pans in a warm place, let them rise for half an hour. Brush with the yolk of an egg, and some milk and sugar. Bake for half an hour in an oven heated as for bread. To dry, cut into two or three when cold, and put into a cool oven over-night. Very good. MUSHROOMS (FRIED). Take large “ flap” mushrooms, peel carefully; fry in a pan, with pepper and salt, in boiling lard or butter, and serve on toast very hot. (As a vegetable or as a breakfast dish.) MUSHROOMS (STEWED). (My Mother’s Recipe.) Ingredients. Button Mushrooms. Some Fine Bread-crumbs. Salt to taste. A tablespoonful of Cream. i oz. of Butter. Pepper. A little Nutmeg. Wash and thoroughly cleanse the mushrooms from sand ; put them in a stewing-pan with the lid closed, let them simmer till tender. Then add the butter, rolled in flour or bread-crumbs, pepper, and nutmeg. Boil for ten minutes. When ready to dish, stir in the cream or the yolk of an egg. (To eat with meat, or as a breakfast dish.) MUSHROOMS (STEWED). Clean and wipe your mushrooms well. For every three large mushrooms or six buttons take a dessertspoonful of cream, a seasoning of cayenne and salt, or nutmeg and pepper if preferred. Stew for half an hour, till nice and tender. Serve on hot devilled toast with crust cut off. Good. MUTTON.—See Saddle.145 MUTTON CHOPS (IN BATTER—ANOTHER WAY). [M MUTTON CHOPS. (A favourite Cape dish.) Cut some nice chops, either from a loin or neck of mutton that has been well hung; beat them well with a wooden kitchen mallet; then dip in boiling fat or lard, then in bread-crumbs (made by drying stale bread in an oven, and pounding it, and keeping ready for use), or fine biscuit, some pepper and salt. Have ready your gridiron, well heated on wood coals ; lay your chops on this, and broil a nice brown over a quick fire, turning occasionally. Serve with a mould of mashed potatoes or tomato sauce. Very good. Pork chops done in the same way are very good. MUTTON CHOPS IN BATTER. (A Colonial Recipe.) Cut from a tender leg of mutton (uncooked), or loin, nice little slices. Season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. Dip in a batter made of half a pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of flour, and two eggs (if eggs are scarce, flour mixed with thick milk and half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda makes a very light, nice batter). Fry in hot dripping or lard, as you would a cutlet. MUTTON CHOPS IN BATTER (ANOTHER WAY). (For Cold Mutton.) From a cold leg of mutton cut slices an eighth of an inch thick. Beat up an egg, stir in a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce ; dip each slice in this, roll in bread- crumbs. Fry quickly. Serve with fried or mashed potatoes. L' ■i149 N, “NAARTJE COMFYTP (Mandarin Orange Preserve. From my Grandmother’s Dutch Recipe Book.) Take two pounds more sugar than the weight of the orange. Rasp the naartje with a piece of glass (which prevents it tasting of steel) or a blunt knife; cut two slits across the bottom of the naartje, lay in water for two or three days, giving clean water every day. Boil the syrup, and when tepid pour it over the fruit; leave it for a night; preserve the next day very slowly, only letting it simmer. Repeat the process the third day, then bottle and cork well. NASTURTIUM SEEDS USED AS CAPERS. Gather the seeds before they are too hard, keep them for a day or two with salt sprinkled over them, then put them into empty pickle bottles; pour boiling vinegar over them and leave them to cool. When cold, cork closely. The nasturtium flowers are very nice to eat with bread and cheese, and butter ; and look very pretty to hand round on a separate plate, with the cheese and butter, after dinner.\ % so. “ OBLITJES.” (An old-fashioned Cape Recipe for Tea Cakes.) Ingredie7its. 3 lb. of Flour. 3 tablespoonfuls of Cinnamon. 1 lb. of Butter. 6 Eggs. i§ lb. of Sugar. White Wine enough to make all into a stiff batter. Mix the one and a half pounds of sugar with the pound of butter, then add the eggs (well whisked), then the flour, and as much wine as will make it into a stiff batter. Rub some butter, or fat, on the warm “ oblitje ” pan, put a teaspoonful of the mixture into it, shut tight, and hold over a good fire. Turn the pan to brown both sides ; it will take about two minutes. .Open the pan, roll the “oblitje ” with a knife, and repeat the process. A quarter of this quantity will make about fifty cakes. OMELET {FOR BREAKFAST). Ingredients. 4 Eggs. \ pint of New Milk. A slice of Stale White Bread. Pepper and Salt. Whisk the eggs well; soak the bread in milk, mash very finely, mix with the whipped egg. Fry in a pan with a little butter or fat. (Makes three good omelets. Time about three minutes each.) i53O] OMELET (EGG AND OYSTER—HAM OR TONGUE). OMELET (EGG AND OYSTER). Ingredients. 4 Eggs. J a pint of Milk. 2h oz- °f Flour. 6 large Oysters. Pepper and Salt. Chop up six large oysters; make a batter of the flour and milk. Mix the whole together, and fry in butter or fat slowly. The oysters may be potted or raw. OMELET (GERMAN). Ingredients. 2 Eggs. x teaspoonful Cream, i teaspoonful Flour. ^ pint Boiling Milk, i teaspoonful Maizena. i tablespoonful Sugar. 20 drops Vanilla Essence. Mix the yolks of the eggs with one teaspoonful of fine flour and one spoonful of maizena, then the spoonful of cream, then the quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and lastly the whites well whisked. Butter two ordinary kitchen tin plates, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven till set. Then carefully lay on a silver (hot water) dish, put a layer of apricot or any other marmalade on it, and cover with the other omelet. (Three omelets make a nice dish for four or five people. These may be made savoury omelets by putting salt, pepper, and parsley instead of jam.) OMELET (HAM OR TONGUE). (English.) Ingredients. 3 oz. Butter. 3 dessertspoonfuls of Grated Ham or 4 Eggs. Tongue. A little Pepper and Salt. Grate or mince some ready-dressed ham or tongue very fine. Whisk the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, season with pepper and salt; beat well together, stir into the tongue and ham. Put some butter into your omelet pan, and when it begins to bubble, whirl up the mixture i54OMELET (A GOOD SWEET)—ORANGE PRESERVE. [O and pour it into the pan. Stir with a spoon one way until it thickens, then fold the edges of the omelet over in an oval form. Brown nicely, and serve as quickly as possible. Pop the dish into a hot stove oven for a few minutes if not quite brown enough. Time, five or six minutes. OMELET (A GOOD SWEET). (Mrs. Spence’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 6 Eggs. i teaspoonful of Grated Lemon-Peel. 3 oz. Sugar. 3 oz. Butter. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth. Have your omelet pan quite hot, put in three ounces of butter, and when it is melted, mix the whites of the eggs with the yolks, sugar, and lemon-peel, and pour into the pan, shaking it round till the under side is slightly browned. Then sift sugar over the upper side. Turn it into a dish, fold it over, and put it for five minutes into a brisk oven. Serve it immediately, before it can fall. OLIVES—See Beef Olives. ONIONS A LA CREME. Ingredients. 6 or 8 nice White Spanish Onions. J pint of Cream. 1 tablespoonful of Fine Flour or Maizena. 2 oz. of Butter. Boil the onions in two or three waters till nice and soft, and also to take off the strong taste ; drain them, and lay them in a warmed vegetable dish. Have ready a sauce made of the flour, cream, and butter, as follows : Rub the flour and butter well together, then add a few spoonfuls of boiling water. Stir nice and smooth till quite mixed, then add the cream or milk, and keep stirring till nearly boiling. Pour this sauce over the onions, and serve hot. Time, two hours. ORANGE PRESERVE.—See “ Naartje Comfyt.” i55O] OYSTERS (SCALLOPED). OYSTERS (SCALLOPED). Ingredients. 3 doz. Oysters. 2 oz. of Fresh Butter. A tea-cup of Grated Bread-crumbs. Pepper. A little Lemon Juice. Butter some tin scallop-shells, or, if you have not any, a small pie-dish. Strew a layer of crumbs, then some thin slices of butter, then oysters enough to fill up tin or dish. Cover with bread-crumbs and slices of butter, add pepper, salt, and lemon, and some of the liquor kept from the oysters. Put butter over the whole surface, and bake in a quick oven. Brown in the oven. Serve in dish or shells in which it has been cooked. Time, quarter of an hour.p. PANCAKES. (Mrs. Brink. An old Recipe.) Ingredients. 6 Eggs. ^ b. of Flour, i tea-cup of Warm Water. A little Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls Melted Butter, i quart of Milk. Whip up the whites and yolks of the eggs separately ; stir in the melted butter and flour gradually, then the milk and water; mix very smoothly. Put an omelet-pan on the fire, with a pat of butter or fat. Put in sufficient batter to run over it as thick as a crown piece ; shake the pan when you think one side is done, toss it up so as to turn. Sprinkle with sugar or spread with honey, roll up and put on a dish in the oven until you have enough to send in, or place them on a dish, grating some sugar and cinnamon between each, cut in quarters, and send in very hot. Beat the butter to a froth ; add the sugar, then one egg well beaten with sugar and butter, then the other, then milk \ lastly the flour. This paste must be quite smooth. Then butter four tin plates. Bake the pancakes in an oven. When ready, put one pancake over the other, with M 161 PANCAKES (.AUGUSTA'S FRENCH). Ingredients. 2 oz. Butter. 2 oz. Castor Sugar. 2 oz. Flour. 2 Eggs. A little Essence of Almonds. J pint of Fresh Milk.PALATES (BEEF)—PARSNIPS (STEWED). P] 162 apricot jam, or other preserve, between each. Serve with sifted sugar. Time, about fifteen minutes. Very good. PALATES {BEEF). (Mrs. Hiddingh’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 4 Palates. A seasoning of Nutmeg, Pepper, or 2 oz. of Butter. Cayenne. Four on palates make a good dish; soak them, and wash very clean; then scald them, and scrape off all the rough skin till^ perfectly white and clean-looking. Then boil gently, in a good quantity of water, till tender. Take them out, and press them between two plates ; let them cool ; cut them into small squares, or any nice shape. Now take of the stock in which the palates were boiled sufficient to cover them ; strain; season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; thicken with fine bread-crumbs or biscuit; add an ounce of butter and a spoonful of cream. Stew the palates gently in this, and serve as an entree. PARSNIPS {STEWED). Ingredients. 4 Large Parsnips. A piece of Butter mixed with Flour. i pint of Cream. Grated Nutmeg. Salt. Boil the parsnips till nearly tender; cut into thin slices, and put them in a stewing-pan with the cream or milk, butter (rolled in flour), nutmeg, and salt. Keep shaking the pan till it is well mixed, thick, and smooth. Put in a hot dish, and serve. PARSNIPS {STEWED), ANOTHER RECIPE. (Cape way.) Take nice tender parsnips, cut them in rings, put them in a stewing-pot in layers, sprinkling some sugar, flour, and a little bit of butter between each; pour a pint of water over it, and let it simmer for two hours, giving the pot an occasional toss.PASTRY (CHEAP—SUET)—PATTIES. [P 163 PASTRY {CHEAP). (French.) Ingredients. x lb. of Flour. ^ lb. of clarified Dripping or Lard. | a teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Butter, if you have it, is better. i Egg. Rub the flour, and half the dripping, and baking- powder together; then mix with the egg and as much water as will make it the right consistency. Roll out twice, and spread over it the remainder of the fat or butter. This makes a good pie crust. PASTRY (SUET). (Very good for hot tarts and pies.) Ingredients. J lb. Flour. A little Salt. J lb. Suet. Mix the flour with half the suet, then add about half a pint of cold water. Roll the dough, and spread the remaining suet. Repeat this three times. (Pound the suet in a mortar with a little butter, and spread as you would butter, on puff paste.) PASTRY.—See Pie Crust. PA TTIES. (Tante Katje’s Recipe.) Ingredients. Cold Meat, minced. Some Lemon Juice, and some of the i slice of Bread soaked in Milk. Rind rasped, i Egg. A pinch of Pepper and Salt. A little Nutmeg. Take pie crust, cut into round shapes by putting a small tumbler on it; on each round put a good teaspoonful or more of the above ingredients well mixed together, and cover with another piece of crust, brush with egg, and bake in hot oven. M 2164 V] PATTIES (LOBSTER—OYSTER)—“PAARL LEMOEN.” PATTIES {LOBSTER). (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Chop up a lobster with red part and spawn; add grated bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, a small lump of butter, chopped sweet herbs. Make the whole into a paste with the yolk of one egg; shape into little flat pieces and fry in lard or butter. PATTIES (OYSTER). Take potted oyster; mix in the liquid a good lump of butter, some salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of cream. Put into little tins lined with puff paste; cover with the same. Bake in a quick oven. “PAARL LEMOEN,,” OR CAPE SHELLFISH. Five or six large shellfish. Clean by putting the shell in strong lye (boiling water put on wood ashes ; half a teaspoonful of washing soda will do as well). The shell separates, and the inside easily comes out, and must then be rubbed on a stone, well washed, and beaten with a wooden mallet. Put in a stewing-pot with a little butter or fat, let it simmer for an hour; then stir in a tea-cup of fine bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, some nutmeg and white pepper, and just before serving, a little salt. Be careful to stir occasionally. No water to be added, as it forms a rich gravy of its own, but requires lots of butter. Ought to be as tender as marrow. A delicious dish. N.B.—The Paarl Lemoen, or Klip Kows (“ Stone- stocking ”), a species of shellfish found on many parts of the South African coast, adhering to the rocks. The shells are lovely, with a mother-of-pearl lining. The fish is most delicious if properly cooked.[P PEARS (STEWED)—PICKLE (CABBAGE). 165 PEARS {STEWED). (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) For every pound of pears take half a pound of sugar (soft white) to make a syrup, taking the same quantity of water as sugar. Boil till clear, pour boiling hot over the pears; cover the stewing-pan close. Then boil briskly at first, then moderately, for four or five hours. Add the juice and peel of a lemon ; when nearly done, a glass of dark wine. Excellent. PEAS {GREEN), TO BOIE Shell your peas as soon as you have gathered them {if possible). For a large vegetable dish of peas take a quart of water, into which put a pinch of salt, a tiny pinch of carbonate of soda. Boil for fifteen minutes, if young and fresh, in an open saucepan. When tender drain through a colander, and put into a dish with a piece of butter, and if the peas have been gathered some time before being shelled they will have lost their sweetness, in which case add a teaspoonful of sugar. Shake well together in the dish, and keep the dish on the top of the saucepan for five minutes to melt the butter and sugar before serving. PICKLE {CABBAGE). (An old Dutch Recipe.) Take cabbage cut in small pieces ; green “ mealies ” (heads of Indian corn) in rings; tiny carrots, green grapes, small onions, green apples cut in strips. Sprinkle well with salt in an earthen basin for a night. Dry two or three days. Then take onions, cut in rings (about half a pound to every three pounds of the other ingredients), fry in a pan, with olive oil, to a light brown. Take one cup of bruised ginger (dried ginger, not ground fine, but just crushed in a mortar), a few spoonfuls of turmeric, one cup of sugar ; mix with three bottles of vinegar. Let it boil,166 p] PICKLE (PEACH)—PIE CRUST. then add cabbage and all the other ingredients ; let the whole boil for an hour. Put into stone jars, and cork. Will keep for years. Unripe peaches, cut in quarters, sprinkled with salt, and dried, make a most delicious pickle with the same sauce. Another similar recipe adds two ounces of coriander seed and two ounces of mustard to the sauce. PICKLE (PEACH). (Mrs. Jackson’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 lb. Dried Peaches, soaked in vinegar for a night. 6 Large Onions, fried a light brown colour in Lucca oil. i lb. Brown Sugar. | lb. Salt. 1 tablespoonful of Coriander Seeds. 2 oz. of Curry Powder. 6 large pieces of Ginger, x tablespoonful of Mustard Seeds. 6 Red Chillies (cut up), i tablespoonful of Pepper. Crush all the spices. Boil all the ingredients in three quarts of good vinegar till the peaches are nice and soft. Cork when cold. PIE CRUST.—See Pastry. PIE CRUST. (Good Home Recipe.) Ingredients. i lb. Finest Flour. £lb. Lard, or Sheep-tail Fat. | lb. Butter. teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. Some Milk and Water. Rub the baking powder into the flour; mix the lard by rubbing into the flour, then mix the flour with milk and water very lightly, to the consistency of dough—not too stiff; then roll out thinly, spread butter all over, dust with flour, roll out again. Repeat the process till all the butter is used.PIE CRUST—PIE (OLD-FASPIIONED DUTCH). [P ANOTHER WAY. {My Recipe.) Ingredients. i lb. Flour. i tea-cup of Cream. ^ lb. Butter. teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. | lb. Lard. Cold Water. Mix the flour, baking powder, and lard dry, then moisten with cream and water, roll out and spread with butter twice. This makes most deliciously light puff paste. Bake in a quick oven. PIE CRUST {CHEAP). Ingredients. 2 cups of Flour. i teaspoonful of Baking Powder, 2 tablespoonfuls of Lard. mixed with i pint of Cold Water. Mix all together and roll out. PIE {OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH). (“ Ouderwetse Pasty.” Mrs. J. Cloete.) 1 Chicken. 2 Onions. 1 blade of Mace. Salt. A little Pepper. 2 oz. Butter. Ingredients. Juice of a Lemon. 1 glass of White Wine. A little Sago and Vermicelli. 2 Hard-boiled Eggs. A few slices of Ham. A few Allspice. Take a chicken, joint and cut into pieces, put into a stewing-pan with one white onion, about a pint of broth, or water, a wineglass of white wine ; put about five all- spice, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns into a little muslin bag, and add ; let the chicken simmer in this for half an hour, then add two spoonfuls of vermicelli, one spoonful of sago, a good lump of butter; stir carefully, as the sago and vermicelli are apt to burn. Just before taking out of the saucepan, whip the yolk of an egg withP] 168 PIE (FISH—MACARONI the juice of a lemon, stir in with the chicken; it thickens the gravy, and gives a nice creamy look. Let this cool, then put into a pie-dish with slices of hard-boiled egg and ham between, and make a few little balls of butter and flour rolled together and put in the pie-dish. Cover with pie crust nicely rolled and ornamented. Brush with yolk of egiF ™XGd Wlth milk- Bake in a quick oven for one and a half hours. Note.—U the chicken is very tender, it can be put into the pie-dish uncooked, and will be equally nice, but will take much longer to bake. The old Dutch way is to have the meat parboiled. PIE (FISH). (A Cape Dish.) Ingredients. Remains of Cold Boiled Fish. 2 Onions fried in butter or fat. Pepper, Salt, Mustard. Tomato Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. 1 Egg. . Ciear the fish from the bones, and break into little pieces ; mix well with the onion, seasoning, butter, tomato sauce, half the egg, and a little of the mashed potatoes ; pack in the buttered pie-dish, lay the potatoes on the top, brush with the egg-. Bake three-quarters of an hour. very good. PIE (MACARONI). i lb. Macaroni. 4 pint of Milk, i tablespoonful Ingredients. i teaspoonful of Mustard. Jib. Grated Cheese, lb. Puff Paste. . Bcul a quarter of a pound of macaroni in water till quite soft, then pour off the water j add a cup of milk, a quaiter of a pound of grated cheese, butter, and mustard, salq a pinch of cayenne and white pepper. Let it boil for a minute, then bake in a buttered dish, or one lined with puff paste.PIE (PIGEON—STEAK—VEAL KIDNEY). [P 169 PIE [PIGEON). Ingredients. 4 Young Pigeons. i glass of Wine. Pepper, Salt, Gravy. 2 oz. Butter. Lay a rim of paste round the sides and edges of a pie- dish. After the pigeons are cleaned, halve them ; season as you would any other pie; a few slices of ham, some hard-boiled eggs, a cup of good stock or gravy. Cover with puff paste ; ornament the top, and stick four of the little feet out of it. Brush over with egg and milk, bake an hour and a half, with a buttered paper if the oven is very hot, over the pie crust to prevent its burning. (Pigeons at the Cape are very plentiful, and are very good roasted or stewed.) PIE {STEAK). Cut a steak into thin slices, sprinkle with parsley, mushroom, and onion ; season with pepper and salt, rubbing in the seasoning well on both sides ; roll up each slice of beef, put into a saucepan on a layer of bacon, and put in sufficient water to cover the rolls. Simmer gently with the lid on till tender; put into a pie-dish with a layer of hard-boiled eggs, cover with a good crust. Bake in a quick oven for one hour and a half. PIE (VEAL KIDNEY). Mince a couple of veal kidneys with the fat; season with nicely chopped herbs, cloves, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; a little chopped celery may be added; four or five hard-boiled eggs, half a cup of fine bread-crumbs, a wine- glass of white wine, and a little stock. Mix all well to- gether, cover with crust. Bake for two hours. PIES.—N.B.—All meat pies with pastry crust should have a hole left in the top of the crust, or it should be pricked over with a fork, to let the steam escape during the baking, otherwise it is unwholesome. It is with the object of hiding the hole that a pastry ornament is usual at the top of a pie.P] PIGGIE, OR SUCKING-PIG-POLISH. 170 PIGGIE, OR SUCKING-PIG. (A very favourite Cape Dish.) When the piggie has been well cleaned and washed, make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, suet, some dried sage leaves, pepper, salt, lemon-peel. If eggs are plentiful, then moisten with an egg and some water. Stuff the pig, sew up with strong thread ; truss it as a hare is trussed, with its fore-legs skewered back and its hind-legs forward. Lay it on a trivet, in a dripping-pan, with a pint of water in the pan. Rub the piggie all over with butter (or sheep- tail fat), and set it in a hot oven. Will take two hours. I have heard that rubbing the piggie all over with the white of egg, before roasting, makes it nice and crisp. POLISH FOR FLOORS. (Home Recipe.) If your floors are white, scrub and scour well with strong soda; stain with oak staining or Vandyke brown, which can be ground in water and mixed with a little size. Go over the boards twice; let the floor get quite dry, then polish with beeswax and turpentine. Scrape the bees- wax and any remains of sperm candles in a round basin. Cover the wax with spirits of turpentine; leave all night. The next day the wax will be dissolved, and the mixture have a creamy appearance. Rub well into the boards with a piece of flannel, and polish by friction. A soft linen cloth gives a better polish than flannel. When done three times, an ordinary deal floor will have a beautiful polished surface. POLISH (FOR CLEANING AND POLISHING COVERS AND TINS). Shred half a pound of blue mottled soap in a jug; add half a cup of finely powdered whiting, pour in sufficient water to make it the consistency of thick cream. Rub well over the covers, and polish with a clean leather and powdered whiting.171 POLISH (TO RESTORE FRENCH)—PORRIDGE. [P POLISH [TO RESTORE FRENCH POLISH). Ingredients. i pint Linseed Oil. 1 oz> Hartshorn. 4 oz. Spirits of Wine. 2 oz. Gum Arabic. 6 oz. Vinegar. Whites of 2 Eggs. The two last ingredients to be rubbed together in a mortar, and the whole well mixed. POLISH [FOR FURNITURE AND FLOORS). (Mrs. G. Bateson.) Ligredieyits. 3 oz. common Beeswax. 1 oz. Curd Soap or Castile Soap. 1 oz. White Wax. 1 pint Turpentine. 1 pint Boiled Water. Cut up the wax and soap, dissolve, when cold add turpentine. Shake the mixture frequently. In forty-eight hours it will be ready for use. Very good. ANOTHER. Equal quantities of sweet oil, vinegar, and turpentine, used sparingly on a damp flannel once a week, and rubbed off with a linen duster. ANOTHER. I7igredie7its. 1 pint Linseed Oil. _ 1 pint Vinegar. 1 pint Spirits of Wine. Shake well. Do not spare elbow grease, which is the most important of all. PORRIDGE [FOR BREAKFAST). Ingredie7its. 2 oz. Oatmeal. 1 pint of Water. ^ pint New Milk. Put a pint of cold water into a stewpan over the fire ; as it boils dredge in the oatmeal with your left hand, and stir172 P] POT-POURRI—POTATOES (HOW TO BOIL). with your right. Boil for twenty minutes. When it is made, send it to table in a soup-plate. To be eaten with a little salt or sugar. Hand round with it a jug of hot or cold milk, or cream. POT-POURRI. (A Home Recipe.) Ingredients. Rose Leaves, as many as you can collect. Scented Verbena Leaves. Lavender. A few Bay Leaves. Some Nutmeg and Cinnamon 2 oz. of Orris Root. Cardamoms. 2 oz. Bay Salt. 2 oz. Saltpetre, i oz. Cloves. The Odorata rose and other sweet-scented ones, freshly- gathered (but be careful no dew is on them), the verbena, lavender seeds, and leaves, put in a wide-mouthed jar in layers sprinkled with the salt, saltpetre, and the spices well bruised. Stir the contents of the jar occasionally. This will retain its scent for years, and may be freshened up whenever roses and other scented flowers are in season clove, carnations, etc. At the Cape there is a very sweet- scented pink lose, almost single, called the French, brought to the Cape by the Huguenot refugees, and also Capse rose, which give a most delicious scent to the pot-pourri. Be careful not to let water be spilt on the pot-pourri—it would spoil it completely. POTATOES (.HOW TO BOIL). Put your potatoes into boiling water with a good tea- spoonful of salt ; boil for twenty minutes; when soft which can be felt easily by pricking with a fork, throw the water off, put the potatoes back (if with their jackets on) into the saucepan, putting the pot on the stove for a few minutes till the skins burst. If the potatoes are peeled leave them in the colander on the steam ; toss them, and send them in looking nice and mealy. The Dutch people serve boiled potatoes with a little melted butter.[P POTATOES (SAVOURY)—PRESERVE. 173 POTATOES (SAVOURY). (Mrs. Manuel’s Recipe.) Bake your potatoes, then cut in half and scoop out the inside, which mix with a little chopped parsley, onion, nutmeg, cheese, pepper, and salt; put back into the skins, ecrcr and bread-crumb the tops, brown them and serve hot. SWEET POTATOES STEWED AS A VEGETABLE. Peel and slice about four or five pounds of “sweet potatoes”; take a cup of sugar, a spoonful of flour, a spoonful of butter, and a little salt. Lay the sliced sweet potatoe in an enamelled saucepan in layers, sprinkled with sugar, butter, and flour, and when you have put in the last layer pour over it a cup of water. Let it all stew gently, giving the pot a stir occasionally. To those who like sweet things with meat this is very- much liked. Boiling them in water with their jackets on, peeled before serving, and cut in slices, with melted butter, is another good way of cooking ce sweet potatoes.” PRESERVE. See Marmalade, Jam, “Naartje Comfyt,’ Apricots salted (Mebos), Grapes in brandy. PRESERVE (GREEN APRICOT). (An old Constantia Recipe.) Ingredients. ioo green or unripe Apricots. Their weight in Sugar. Prick the fruit with a steel pin, lay them in a deep dish, sprinkle some salt over them (about a dessert-174 P] PRESERVE (RIPE APRICOT—IN BRANDY). spoonful), pour boiling water over them, cover with green vine-leaves (this keeps them green), lay a plate on the top. Now proceed to make the syrup, taking a cup of water to a cup of sugar. When it is boiled and clarified, take the apricots out of the salt water, wash them, and pour the boiling syrup over them. Leave for a night like this. The next day preserve by gently simmering till the fruit is nice and clear. PRESERVE {RIPE APRICOT). (Old Dutch Recipe.) Apricots can only be preserved by pouring boiling syrup over them, for ten days, boiling the syrup every day; the syrup to be made of sugar, the same weight as the fruit. On the tenth day make a fresh thick syrup; put the apricots in a wide-mouthed jar, pour the thick boiling syrup over them, and cork well. PRESERVE {APRICOTS IN BRANDY). (Miss De Wet’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 6 lb. of Ripe Apricots or Peaches. lb. Sugar (boiled to a thick syrup). Wipe your fruit very clean, prick with a steel pin ; pack the apricots or peaches in a jar. Take one tea-cup of thick syrup and one tea-cup of brandy, mix well, and pour over each layer of fruit as you put them in your jar; when filled, put a paper between the top of the jar and lid ; set the jar in a saucepan of water, and let it heat to near boiling point, then remove the paper and lid, and when cold cork well. If the lid is one that screws on, no bladder is necessary. Apricots and the “ Pavia ” peaches are best done this way, and the yellow peach with Mrs. Cloete’s recipe.[P PRESERVE (CITRON—FIG). PRESERVE {CITRON). (From my Grandmother’s Recipe Book. Dutch.) Scrape the rind, cut in halves, take out the pulp, lay them in a basin of hot water to which a handful of salt was added; change the water the next day, then leave for two days longer in water; after that, boil them in clean water till soft enough to put a reed through. Press all the water out carefully, laying on a cloth to cool. For each pound of fruit take two of sugar; make a syrup of the sugar (one cup of water for a cup of sugar), clarify with an egg. Boil for two days on a slow fire. Keep well corked in glass bottles. PRESERVE {FIG). (Old Cape Recipe.) To preserve white figs whole, take them nearly ripe, peel thinly, but leave the stalks on; lay for a night in lime water, the next morning prick with a needle. Take the weight of the fruit in sugar, make a thick syrup, taking less water than cups of sugar; lay the figs in the syrup, boil gently till the figs are transparent and the syrup thick. ANOTHER FIG PRESERVE. (From a very old Cape Recipe Book. Dutch.) Scrape unripe figs, cut a slit across the top (not too large), lay in a basin of cold water in which has been put two tablespoonfuls of lime (this quantity to ioo figs). Lay a plate, with a weight on it, on the top of the figs, or they will drift on the water. About twelve hours after, take out, wash clean. Have ready a saucepan in which you have about three quarts of clean water, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, one tablespoonful of salt. Let the figs boil up in this, taking care to leave the saucepan open. Take out when soft enough to be easily pierced with a reed; drain through a colander, or on a cloth. Take two i7SP] PRESERVE (RIPE FIG—RIPE MELON). 176 pounds of sugar more than the weight of fruit, make a clear syrup (one cup of water to one of sugar) ; when strained and cool, lay your figs in it for a night, the next day preserve on a slow fire till the fruit is quite clear. Cork in small jars. Time, three or four hours. Very good. PRESERVE (RIPE FIG). Take six pounds of ripe figs, lay them for a few hours in lime water (two spoonfuls of lime to a basin of water); take six pounds of sugar, boil a clear syrup; after strain- ing, let it boil till thick before adding the figs ; then preserve for two hours longer, slowly, till the figs look clear. Cork. Will keep well. PRESERVE (“HOTTENTOT FIG? OR 11 SOUR FIG”). Lay the “figs” in boiling water till the hard skin is soft and will peel off easily. Take the weight of fruit in sugar, and boil a syrup. Put the fruit (after carefully peeling and cutting off the hard part at the bottom) into the syrup, and preserve slowly. (The Hottentot fig is the fruit of a kind of mesem- bryanthemum which grows wild at the Cape.) PRESERVE {RIPE MELON). (A very old Cape Recipe.) Ingredients. 8 lbs. of Sugar, boiled with the same 6 lbs. of Melon, ripe, quantity of Water into a Syrup i oz. of White Ginger, clarified with an Egg. Take a large ripe melon (not too soft); cut into large slices ; prick with a fork, peeling the slices very thinly and removing the seeds. Lay the pieces in a basin, cover with cold water, in which is a teaspoonful of salt, and put a plate on the top to keep the pieces under water. Let it remain in water four or five days ; then wash it carefully; put the fruit into boiling water, and let it boil up once ;177 PRESERVE (WATER MELON PEEL—MELON). [P lay the slices of melon on a cloth to drain. Now boil the syrup, and pour it boiling hot on the slices of melon, repeating this process every morning for a week ; the last two days put the slices of melon in the preserving pot in which you heat the syrup, and let it boil gently for ten minutes or more, then let it cool. Repeat the next day, and go on till the fruit is quite clear and firm, and the syrup nice and thick. This process diminishes the syrup greatly, and you might make a little more if necessary. This mode of making preserve is rather tedious, but repays one for the trouble; it will keep for years, and becomes beautifully clear and quite firm. (The ginger to be put in a muslin bag, and boiled with the preserve, and taken out the last thing.) PRESERVE (WATER MELON PEEL). Cut the water melon peel in pieces; cut off the outer green peel and all the soft inside, cutting away all the red part; then cut into square pieces or shapes, prick well with a fork; lay the pieces in an earthen basin in lime water—two spoonfuls of lime to four quarts of water. Put a plate on the top to keep it under water; leave all night ; wash well in cold water next morning; put in some cold water; let it boil till you can put a stick into it; now drain. Having previously weighed the peel, take the same weight in sugar; set it on the fire in a saucepan, a layer of peel and a layer of sugar, a few sticks of cinnamon, two or three cups of water; close the lid of the stewpan ; let it simmer till the sugar is melted, then preserve gently (take the lid off if there is a good quantity of syrup). If the water melon was an “American Ice Cream,” it will preserve in two or three hours, and be beautifully crisp and soft, almost melting in your mouth. Four or six cloves to be put into the preserve. PRESERVE {MELON). Made in the same way, only take green melons, while the water melon peel preserve should be from a ripe one. N178 P] PRESERVE (SEVILLE ORANGE—PEACHES). PRESERVE (.SEVILLE OR BITTER ORANGE). (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) Scrape the rind with a blunt knife or piece of glass. Cut four small incisions at the bottom; put them in water for four days, changing the water daily. Boil the oranges until soft, putting them into boiling water. Squeeze them out well. Have ready the syrup—for twelve pounds of fruit eighteen pounds of sugar. Let the oranges lie for a night in syrup before preserving. (Similar to recipe for ■'‘ Naartje Comfyt.”) PRESERVE (PEACHES IN BRANDY). (Mrs. H. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. r 150 Peaches. 8 lb. Sugar. 2 bottles of White Spirits of Wine. The yellow or apricot peaches are generally used. Make a thin syrup of half the sugar (four pounds). Peel and prick the peaches; boil fifty at a time in the syrup till nearly soft; of the remaining sugar make a very thick syrup. Take three cups of this and two cups of spirits of wine. Put the preserved peaches in glass jars; pour the mixture over and cork at once. Should a smaller quantity of peaches be made, the same syrup in which the peaches were boiled might be mixed with the spirits of wine, only boiled till very thick. PRESERVE (WHOLE PEACHES). (Mrs. Henry Cloete’s old Cape Mode.) Take ripe “ Clingstone” peaches, peel very thinly, prick well. Lay them in a large basin of water into which two spoonfuls of lime have been thrown (if you have no lime at hand, a handful of kitchen salt will do as well; the effect is to harden the outside of the fruit.) Leave the peaches for an hour or two in this. Weigh the fruit before you put[P PRESERVE (QUINCES—TOMATO). it in the lime-water; for twelve pounds of fruit take ten pounds of sugar. Wash the peaches in clean water; oil your preserving pan with olive oil. Put alternate layers of fruit and sugar, and pour about two or three cups of cold water over; preserve with the lid on the pot for about an hour on rather a quick fire, then let it stew very gently till the syrup is thick and the fruit looks clear; skim occasionally. Cork when cool. Will keep well. Ordinary white crystallised sugar or light yellow gives a nice colour. PRESERVE (QUINCES). (Hilda’s Recipe.) Peel and cut the quinces (large ones) in four pieces ; carefully core and cut out all the hard inside. Lay in a saucepan, cover with cold water with a handful of salt. Boil quickly till soft (for about ten minutes), then drain carefully. The weight of the quinces after they are peeled in sugar. Take the peels and cores and pips, cover with cold water, and boil well, and strain ; of this juice take as many basins as sugar. Lay the quinces in a preserving- pan covered with sugar, and the juice of the skins and cores; preserve gently till the pieces are quite clear, and the juice forms a jelly when cold. This preserve served with whipped cream is most delicious. PRESERVE (QUINCE). (Mrs. Etheridge’s Book.) Peel and cut quinces in thin, slices, let them dry a little; the next day preserve in thick syrup, two pounds of sugar more than the weight of fruit. PRESERVE (TOMATO). Take six pounds of small preserving tomatoes ; prick them with a steel pin, and lay them in saltpetre water x 2 170180 PJ PRESERVE (TOMATO)—PUDDINGS. (a tablespoonful of saltpetre in three quarts of water) for ten minutes. Wash clean ; put into a stewing-pan, with equal weight of sugar; add half an ounce of dry ginger, just bruised in a mortar and tied in a muslin bag. Let it simmer slowly till the sugar has melted, keeping the pre- serving-pan closed ; then boil rather more quickly for an hour, till the tomatoes are clear. Take out ginger before corking the jar. PRESERVE {TOMATO). (Mrs. Ahren’s Recipe.) Take middle-sized fruit; prick and cut an incision at the bottom. Lay in lime water for a night (a tablespoonful of lime in two bottles of water) ; the next day in a little salt water. Preserve in an equal quantity of sugar. Oil the saucepan, then put in layers of fruit and sugar alter- nately, and boil slowly. Half an ounce of ginger in a muslin bag to be added during the boiling, and taken out when done. PRESERVE (GREEN TOMATOES). Take six pounds of green, unripe tomatoes, eight pounds of sugar, boiled to a syrup, and four lemons, the rind very thinly cut and the juice squeezed. First boil the tomatoes gently till quite tender, but don't let them break. In the wrater in which the fruit is boiled put about two or three dozen green peach leaves ; drain, after taking out. Make a syrup, and put the toma- toes in it cold. Put in two or three pieces of ginger in a bag and the lemon-peel; let it boil slowly till quite clear, then take out the ginger. Just before taking the preserve off the fire add about two tablespoonfuls of brandy. PUDDINGS.—See “ Chippolata ” and “ Spritze.”PUDDING (ALMOND AND RAISIN—BACHELOR’S). [P PUDDING (.ALMOND AND RAISIN). Ingredients. 2 cz. Almonds. 3 Eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls Rum, 2 oz. Sugar. A little Nutmeg. Chop the suet very fine; mix with bread-crumbs, currants, nutmeg, and sugar. Butter a mould and line it with raisins, put in rows all round, and almonds blanched and laid between. Beat the eggs, add the milk and rum, and mix all together; put carefully in the mould, and boii three hours. Serve with wine sauce. 2 oz. Beef Suet. ^ pint Milk. J lb. Bread-crumbs, lb. Raisins. PUDDING (APPLE). Ingredients. i lb. Apples. i Lemon. | lb. Sugar. J lb. Butter. 3 Eggs. Puff Paste. Pare and core one pound of apples ; put them in a stewing-pan, with sufficient water to stew them to a pulp without burning; add sugar, grated rind of lemon, and three well-beaten eggs. Mix all well together. Just before baking stir in the butter; line the dish with puff paste, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Very good. PUDDING (BACHELOR’S). (A very old home Recipe.) Ingredie7its. ij cupfuls of Bread-crumbs. 3 oz. of Flour. 4 Eggs. h lb. of Currants or Raisins. ^ lb. of Suet. J lb. of Sugar, x teaspoonful of Nutmeg, Ginger, and Cinnamon, i teaspoonful of Soda. Any Candied Preserves cut up. Mix all together and add about one pint of buttermilk ; if not to be had, use sweet milk, in which case substitute baking powder for soda. Boil three or four hours. Serve with wine sauce. iS iP] PUDDING (BROWN—BONNIE’S—BEEF STEAK). PUDDING (BROWN). (Mrs. Burrel’s Recipe.) Two eggs, their weight in flour and butter, the weight of one in sugar. Beat the butter to a cream with sugar; add eggs well beaten, stir in the flour, then two table- spoonfuls of jam or fruit jelly; before putting the pudding in a mould, stir in half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Boil or steam for an hour and three-quarters ; allow plenty of room for the pudding to rise in mould. Serve with wine or sweet sauce. Golden syrup may be substituted for jam. PUDDING (BONNIE’S). Ingredients. rj lb. Butter, stirred to a cream. 3 Eggs, yolks and whites separately 4: lb. Sifted Sugar. whisked. •t lb. Flour. £ lb. Raisins, split and stoned. Flavour with Vanilla or Lemon Essence. Mix sugar and butter, then the yolks, lastly flour, and whites, and raisins. Boil two hours in a buttered mould. Very good. PUDDING (BEEF STEAK). Ingredients. 1^ lb. Beef Steak. Water enough to make into a paste the consistency of ordinary dough. Pepper, Salt. Line a buttered basin with the suet crust, half an inch thick; cut the steaks a quarter of an inch thick, beat them with a kitchen mallet; season with pepper, salt, and a sprinkling of flour ; lay them in the basin, interspersed with some fat of the beef, add a glass or less of cold water; cover the top with the remainder of the paste, press well down with the thumb ; boil in a floured pudding-cloth for three hours. Turn out carefully on a dish. Mutton or lamb pudding is done in the same way, only add a tiny piece of finely shred onion and parsley. 182 1 lb. Flour. \ lb. Suet. Teaspoonful of Salt.183 PUDDING (BREAD AND BUTTER—BUTTER-MILK). [P PUDDING {BREAD AND BUTTER). (Recipe from Dutch family cookery book, over one hundred years old.) Take a small loaf of white bread, cut very thin, and butter each slice, and soak in milk; carefully butter a pudding-dish, lay the soaked bread and butter in layeis in the dish, sprinkling over each layer some almonds blanched and sliced, some slices of citron preserve, some sugar, and currants, till the dish is nearly full; then whisk up four eggs with a spoonful of rose-water and a quart of boiled milk, and pour into the dish. In the process of baking it may become dry; pour some more milk and egg over it, if all was not required to fill the pudding-dish. The oven must not be too hot. PUDDING (.BOILED BUTTER-MILK). Ingredients. i lb. of Flour. i tablespoonful of Butter. pints of Butter-milk. 2 Eggs. | lb. of Beef Suet. 1 teaspoonful of Soda. Flavour with Essence of Almonds. Cut the suet very fine, melt the butter, mix with the suet and flour, beat the eggs, mix all together; don’t forget a pinch of salt. Boil for two hours in a cloth or mould. Serve with sweet sauce. PUDDING {BAKED BUTTER-MILK). Melt two ounces of butter in a pie-dish; mix a batter of half a pound of flour and one pint of butter-milk, two eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda ; flavour with ginger or almonds ; pour into the dish. Bake half an hour. Serve at once with crystallised sugar.P] PUDDING (CANARY—CARROT—CASTLE—CHEESE). PUDDING {CANARY). (Mrs. J. Van der Byl’s Recipe.) Take five eggs, also the weight of three eggs in sugar and butter, and of two eggs in flour, the rind of a lemon grated. Just melt the butter—don't boil; add sugar and eggs (well whisked) gradually; dredge in the flour. When mixed thoroughly, pour into a buttered mould. Boil two hours. Serve with any sweet sauce. Enough for four or five people. PUDDING (CARROT). (Cape Recipe.) Ingredients. £ lb. Flour. J lb. Beef Suet. | lb. Grated Carrots. 3 Eggs. | lb. Sugar. Salt. Grated Peel of Lemon and the Juice, or Essence of Lemon. Mince or grate the carrots; chop the suet ; whisk the eggs. Mix all together ; pack in a mould or basin ; boil two or three hours. Serve with wine sauce. Enough for eight persons. PUDDING (CASTLE). Ingredients. The weight of 4 Eggs in Sugar, Flour, and Butter. 4 Eggs. Beat the butter to a cream ; then add sugar, eggs (well whisked), and flour, a dash of grated nutmeg, and brandy for flavouring. Bake in little tin cups for twenty minutes. This quantity fills six cups. Serve with a wine sauce. PUDDING (CHEESE). (Mrs. D. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. J lb. of Grated Cheese. 1 tea-cup of Milk or Cream. 1 Egg, well beaten. A little Mustard. 1 teaspoonful of Butter, Cayenne Pepper, Salt. Mix all well together. Bake in a buttered dish for twenty minutes. Enough for four or five persons. 1S4185 PUDDING (CHOCOLATE—CITRON—CUSTARD). [P PUDDING (CHOCOLATE). (German Recipe.) Ingredients. i lb. Grated Chocolate. £ lb. Butter. | lb. Pounded Loaf Sugar. i pint of Milk. £ lb. of Fine Flour. Mix all these ingredients and stir into the boiling milk • stir till the substance gets loose from the pot; put it into a dish to cool. Then take six eggs; whisk the yolks and whites separately. First add to the mixture the yolks, then, when well stirred, add the whites, well whisked. Put into a buttered porcelain mould ; boil one hour; turn out and serve. May be eaten hot or cold. PUDDING (CITRON). (“ Klapmuts ” Recipe.) Ingredients. i oz. packet Gelatine. 4 1R White Sugar, i cup Light Wine. 6 Eggs, whisked separately. Juice of 3 Lemons or Oranges. Dissolve the gelatine (after soaking) in a cup of boiling water. Squeeze the juice of the lemons or oranges, care- fully removing the seeds ; add the peel of one orange, cut very thin, to the hot water and gelatine, also the juice, one cup of wine, and the sugar. Stir all till it comes to a boil. Take out the peel; draw aside; pour in the six yolks well whisked. Whip all well together; put into a buttered mould to set. PUDDING (CUSTARD). (A favourite Cape Recipe.) Take four eggs ; whisk well in an ordinary-sized pie- dish; take either new or boiled milk; add two large spoon- fuls of white crystallised sugar, a few drops of vanilla essence. Bake in a moderate oven. A sure way of pre- venting the custard from becoming watery is to put the pie- dish into a tin with a little water whilst baking. ServeP] PUDDING (DICK’S—FRUIT—JENNY LIND). either hot or cold. Can be flavoured with two bay leaves, cinnamon, or vanilla. PUDDING (DICK'S). Ingredients. 4 oz. Bread-crumbs. 2 oz. Sugar. 4 oz. Currants. 3 Eggs. 4 oz. Apples. A little Cinnamon. A little Grated Nutmeg. Mince the apples very finely; add currants (well washed), grated bread-crumbs, and sugar. Whisk the eggs, and mix all thoroughly. Put the pudding in a buttered basin; tie down with a cloth; boil for three hours. Sufficient for four or fine persons. PUDDINGS (FRUIT). A dish, lined with puff paste, and filled with any fruit that is in season, peeled, sliced, and sprinkled with sugar, and baked gently for two or more hours, makes a nice dish served with thin custard, or cream and sugar. PUDDING (JENNY LIND). Ingredients. 1 Lemon. J pint of Cream. 4 Eggs. 5 cup of any kind of Preserve,' 1 breakfast-cup of White Wine. and some Whipped Cream. 4 Sponge Biscuits. 2 oz. Sugar. Put the juice and grated peel of the lemon into an enamelled saucepan, place over the fire or stove ; stir in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, keep over the fire till nearly boiling. Have ready the whites of four eggs well whisked, stir into the yolks, adding half the breakfast-cup of wine. Put the sponge biscuits into a dish, pour over them the other half-cup of wine ; when soaked lay over them some preserve, and pour the custard made from the yolks of the eggs and lemon over them, then pile some whipped cream on the top. Ornament it with harlequin comfits. Very good.[P PUDDING (BAKED LEMON-MADONNA). PUDDING (AN EXCELLENT BAKED LEMON). (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 large Lemons. /. 6 oz. Sugai. 3 oz. Butter. 5 Eggs. Take the peel of two large lemons, boil it tender m half a pint of water and pound in a mortar ; add the juice and pulp of the lemons, carefully taking out the seeds, three ounces of butter stirred in melted, and sugar we beaten up first with the eggs. Line a dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake for an hour. PUDDING (MACARONI). Ingredients. i lb. of Macaroni. A wineglass of Brandy. i quart Milk. Peel of i Lemon. 4 Eggs. 2 oz' Sugai. Simmer the macaroni in a pint of milk for three-quarters of an hour till quite soft with the lemon-peel; take out the peel, and put the macaroni in a pie-dish lined with puff paste; bend round the edges. Beat the eggs well, add sugar and glass of brandy. Stir this into the other pint of milk, and pour over the macaroni, and bake for half an hour. PUDDING (MADONNA). (Mrs. D. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. io oz. Bread-crumbs. i large or 2 small Lemons. 8 oz. Sugar (White or Brown). i Egg. 8 oz. Beef Suet. A tablespoonful of Brandy. Chop the suet very fine, mix it with the bread-crumbs, sugar, grated lemon-peel; then add the juice, brandy, and egg well beaten. Mix well together with a wooden spoon, and pack firmly into a well-buttered mould. Boil one and a half hours. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. 1S7188 P] PUDDING (MANCHESTER—MOLLY’S—POTATO). PUDDING [MANCHESTER). (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Boil a pint of milk, pour it boiling over six ounces of bread-crumbs; when nearly cold add two ounces of white sugar. Beat up two ounces of butter and two eggs ; butter a pudding-dish, and at the bottom lay a covering of jam ; pour mixture over it, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Enough for six. As nice hot as cold. PUDDING (MOLLY’S). Ingredients. Stale Penny Loaf. i oz. Maizena. Marmalade. i Egg. i pint of Milk. Put a layer of stale crumbs into a buttered dish or basin, then a layer of jam, then another of crumbs, and so on till the dish is full. Then mix a tablespoonful of maizena and one egg ; add to it a pint of boiling milk, pour this over the crumbs. Either bake or boil. Time, half an hour. Cheap and good. PUDDING (ORANGE). (Mrs. Fleming.) Peel six oranges and cut them in small pieces. Make a custard with a pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, two table- spoonfuls of corn-flour, the yolks of two eggs. When nearly cold, pour custard over the oranges, and mix well together. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with three spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar. Heap this on the pudding, and bake in the oven a light brown. PUDDING (POTATO). (Copied from our Grandmother’s Dutch book.) Take a soup-plate of potatoes, boiled and mashed ; a saucerful of butter, melted ; two tablespoonfuls of fine flour ;189 PUDDING (“SWEET POTATO’’—PLUM). [P six eggs, white and yolk whipped separately; about two dozen almonds ; a few tablespoonfuls of rose-water. Mix the yolks with the mashed potatoes, then the flour, then the whites of the eggs, the grated almonds, and rose-water. Butter the mould, and garnish with slices of citron pre- serve, and boil two hours. Can be served with sifted sugar and melted butter, or any sweet sauce. PUDDING (“SWEET POTATO”). (Cape.) Ingredients. Jib. of “ Sweet Potatoes,” boiled and 3 Eggs. mashed very fine. 1 teaspoonful Sifted Cinnamon. JlO. Butter. A little Nutmeg. J lb. Loaf Sugar. J wineglass Brandy. Stir the butter to a cream with the sugar; whip the eggs separately. Mix all with the mashed sweet potatoes, etc. Line a tart-dish with puff paste ; bake for half an hour in a quick oven. When done, sift sugar on the top. PUDDING (PLUM). (Old English Recipe.) xlb. Raisins. 1 lb. Currants. 1 lb. Beef Suet. J lb. Candied Citron, if lb. Sugar. Ingredients. 7 Eggs. 2 oz. Flour. x tablespoonful of Mixed Spices— Ginger, Cinnamon, Nutmeg. 1 tumbler of Brandy. Stone and clean the raisins, wipe the currants ; cut the beef suet very fine, also the candied citron ; whisk the whites and yolks separately; mix all together. Boil in a well-floured cloth, or mould, for six hours. Improves by being made weeks before, and kept till wanted. Very good.190 P] PUDDING (PLUM—PLAIN—QUEEN OF PUDDINGS). -r PUDDING (AN EXCELLENT PLUM). (Made without eggs. English.) Ingredients. -i lb. Flour. 6 oz. Raisins. 6 oz. Currants. 6 oz. Chopped Suet, f lb. Brown Sugar, f lb. Mashed Carrots. i teaspoonful of Mixed fib. Mashed Potatoes, i tablespoonful of Treacle or Golden Syrup. i oz. Candied Lemon Peel, i oz. Citron. Spices—Ginger, Cinnamon, Nutmeg. Mix flour, currants, suet, sugar well. Have ready the above proportions of carrot and potato, and stir them into the other ingredients; add treacle and lemon peel, but no other liquid, or it will be spoiled. Boil in a mould, but do not fill it quite, as it must have room to swell. Let it boil for four hours. This pudding is best mixed over-night. Serve with brandy sauce. PUDDING CPLAIN, GOOD). • Ingredients. i quart Boiled Milk. fib. Flour, fib. Mashed Potatoes. 2 oz. Butter. 20Z. Sugar. Mix the ingredients, and when cold, add three well- beaten eggs ; flavour with essence of bitter almonds or vanilla. Bake or steam for half an hour. Serve with wine sauce. PUDDING (QUEEN OF PUDDINGS). (Mrs. Henry Cloete.) Take the crumb of a penny loaf of white bread, well soaked in boiling milk; whisk the yolk of three eggs ; a good tablespoonful of sugar, a tablespoonful of butter, lemon-peel or cinnamon. Bake in the oven. When nearly cold, put on a layer of apricot jam, or gooseberry. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth with one cup of sifted sugar andPUDDING (QUINCE—RICE). [P 191 the juice of a lemon; cover the preserve. Put back in the oven to dry—not brown. PUDDING (QUINCE). Ingredients. 7 Quinces. Powdered Ginger, Cinnamon. i pint Cream. 2^. Sugar. 4 Eggs. Puff Paste. Boil seven large quinces until very tender, pare and core them ; beat to a pulp, adding the sugar. Beat up the eggs, stir gradually into a pint of cream; mix with the pulp ; flavour with cinnamon or ginger ; put into a buttered dish with puff paste round. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with sugar. PUDDING (RICE). (An old Dutch Recipe. Mrs. Mybergh.) Ingredie?its. 5 tablespoonfuls of Pounded Rice. 8 oz. of Sugar. 1 quart of Milk. 2 oz. of Butter. 6 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful of Cinnamon. Boil the rice and milk till thick and soft. Let it cool; stir in the butter; whisk whites and yolks separately, mix with the rice and milk. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a buttered mould dusted with fine biscuit. Turn out when cold. PUDDING (RICE). (My Mother’s Recipe.) • Boil one cupful of rice in one and a half quarts of new milk ; when soft stir in a tablespoonful of butter. When cold, whisk up three eggs, add some cinnamon or Naartje (Tangerine orange) peel, stir well together, and bake for twenty minutes in a buttered pie-dish. Very good.192 P] PUDDING (ROLY-POLY JAM—ROMAN). PUDDING (.ROLY-POLY JAM). (My Mother’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 lb. of Flour. Eggspoonful of Salt. 2 lb. of finely cut Beef Suet. i pint of Cold Water. Mix all well together, roll out very thinly, leaving a small edge of half an inch for the dough to stick ; cover the whole surface with jam (will take about three-quarters of a pound—quince jam is very good), roll up, fasten the ends well; have ready a cloth which has been dipped in boiling water and well dusted with flour; put the roly-poly in this ; tie up the ends well, putting a little dry flour at each end of the cloth, to prevent the water getting in. Put into boiling water, and let it boil for two or three hours. PUDDING (POTATO ROLY-POLY). (English.) Take a pint of hot mashed potato, a pint of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a pinch of salt, and moisten with milk or water into a dough. Roll the paste out, spread it with any jam that has no stones, roll and tie up, and steam for an hour and a quarter. A very nice sauce to eat with this dainty pudding is, two ounces of butter and two tablespoon fuls of sugar beaten together, and added to one well-beaten egg ; go on beating, pouring in by degrees a little boiling water, till the sauce looks like cream. PUDDING (ROMAN). (A nice Recipe for cold meat.) Mince some cold meat—veal, chicken, or beef; take a cup of good stock, nicely flavoured, one egg, some lemon or tomato sauce, a little vermicelli or bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; mix all together, with a suspicion of onion and parsley. Line a meat mould or basin with some macaroni, previously boiled quite tender in milk or193 PUDDING (SNOW—“ SCHAUM ” OR “ BESSIE’S ”). [P water, then fill with the mince-meat. Steam for half an hour; if made of uncooked meat it should steam for an hour and a half. When done, turn out of the basin. Serve with a nice white sauce. Makes a nice entree. PUDDING (SNOW). Ingredients. Sixpenny packet of Gelatine. Juice of 7 Lemons. 1 cup of Cold Water. 1 lb. of Crushed Sugar. The whites of 2 Eggs. Soak a sixpenny packet of gelatine in a cupful of cold water; then add a cupful of boiling water, the juice.of seven lemons, and one pound of crushed loaf sugar; whisk well together; now add the whites of two eggs well beaten. Beat all together for half an hour or more, and boil for an hour and a quarter tied up in a cloth (or it may be baked instead). When done it repays you for all your trouble; it is so pretty, looks like snow, and melts in the mouth. PUDDING (“SCHAUM" [FOAM] OP “BESSIE’S"). Ingredients. 3 tablespoonfuls of Maizena. A tiny pinch of Salt. 3 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence 2 tablespoonfuls of Sugar. or a bit of Cinnamon, or 20 3 breakfast-cups of Milk. drops of Essence of Almonds. A dessertspoonful of Butter. Set the milk to boil with the sugar, keeping half a cup to mix with the maizena and butter and the yolks of the eggs. When the milk boils pour in the maizena, etc.; stir till quite done, which can be told by the maizena coming off from the bottom of the saucepan. Have ready the whites stirred to a stiff froth, draw the saucepan to the side ; let the whites lie on the boiling mixture for a minute or two before stirring it lightly with the pudding, then pour into a wetted mould ; turn out when cold. Serve with preserved peaches, or very good without. A smaller pudding of this kind is nice for invalids—say one cup of milk, one spoonful maizena, one fresh egg, and other ingredients in proportion. Very good cold pudding. oP] PUDDING (TAPIOCA—YORKSHIRE)—PUFF PASTE. PUDDING {TAPIOCA). Soak two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a quart of milk for four hours, then set it on the fire with two ounces' of sugar and a little grated lemon-peel. When clear pour into a pudding-dish ; whip up two eggs well, mix with the tapioca and milk. Bake half an hour. Excellent. PUDDING (TOMATO AND MEAT). (Mrs. Fleming’s Recipe.) Cover the bottom of a dish with bread-crumbs, put on this a layer of underdone meat cut in thin slices, sprinkled with pepper, salt, a little onion, then a layer of ripe tomatoes peeled and sliced, an even teaspoonful of brown sugar, a few pats of butter. Repeat this till the dish is full, lastly a layer of bread-crumbs. Bake a nice brown. The meat can be minced if preferred. PUDDING {YORKSHIRE). (To eat with Roast Beef.) Ingredients. 2 Eggs. i pint of Milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of Flour. Salt. Mix all together; either bake in a pan or under the roast. Time, half an hour. If eggs are scarce, chop up two ounces of suet, and mix as above, and bake in the same way. This pudding should be made flat and cut in squares. PUFF PASTE. Roll about a quarter of a pound of butter into one and a half pounds of flour, with the juice of half a lemon; mix with thin cream instead of water; add the yolk and white of one egg; a little water may be added if neces- sary. Roll out thinly and put the butter on in little dabs ; roll out again and spread the rest of the butter, fold up and let it lie for an hour, then use for tarts or savoury pies. This quantity would make crust for a large pie, two or three tarts, etc. Can safely be made the day before it is wanted in cool weather. *94[P PUNCH (MILK). PUNCH {MILK). (Admiral Etheridge’s Madras Recipe.) Ingredients. 5 bottles of Brandy. 6 quarts Water. 6 lb. of Sugar. 4 quarts Boiling Milk. 12 Oranges. 12 Limes. Peel and Juice. 4 bottles of Rum. Put the peel of the oranges and limes on the brandy for three days; then mix the sugar and three quarts of lime and orange juice well together, stir with the brandy till all the sugar is dissolved. Take out the peel and add six quarts of water, and lastly pour in four quarts of boiling milk, stir, and cover up for a couple of hours; then strain through a double flannel bag till quite clear. Bottle for use. Be careful that the milk is boiling. o 2 i95"S3/ ♦ *199 Q. QUAILS. Quails are very plentiful at the Cape in Octobei and November. u They are generally cooked in a baking-pot the old Dutch way. Cut off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet; pass a skewer through the pinions and wings; cover the breast with a young vine leaf and a slice of fat bacon. Bake a nice brown. Serve on buttered toast, with good gravy poured on them. Bread sauce can be served with them. Note.—In some Cape houses curried quail is considered a great delicacy. QUINCE “SAMBALI (A Green Chutney. Malay Recipe.) Take two or three greenish quinces; peel and quarter them ; a few slices of onion, a green chilli, and some salt. Pound all these in a mortar, and serve with roast or curry, A very good condiment.203 R. RAGOUT OF COLD DUCK OR TURKEY. (Malay or Cape Dish.) Cut up the remains of cold duck, etc.; make a little stock of the bones; flavour with cayenne pepper, mustard, tomato sauce. Cut a large onion into small pieces , fiy (or “ smoor,” as they say in Dutch) in boiling fat. or butter. Mix with the stock, which can be thickened with a little brown flour. When this mixture is boiling, add your pieces of cold duck, turkey, or chicken. Aftei being slightly browned, pour the savoury mixture over them, and let the whole simmer for a quarter of an hour till thoroughly warm. RAGOUT {TONGUE). (From Miss Becker. German.) Boil a fresh tongue for two or three hours, with two dozen whole peppercorns, a small piece of ginger (pounded), two bay leaves, a spoonful of salt. When nice and soft, take out, peel and cut in thin slices. Then take a quarter of a pound of butter, two spoonfuls of flour; stir with the butter over the fire till nice and brown ; stir into a cup of the soup that the tongue has been boiled in, one glass of madeira, some cayenne pepper, some potted mushrooms. Simmer the tongue in this mixture for a few minutes. Serve with croquettes made of minced meat, nicely seasoned, rolled in bread-crumbs, and fried in a pan with boiling fat. Garnish with small potatoes, boiled in their jackets, then peeled and fried in bread-crumbs and lard. A very nice entree.204 R] RIBS OF BEEF (BONED SPICED)—RICE (YELLOW). SPICED RIBS OF BEEF (BONED). (Home Recipe.) F°i ten pounds of beef, take a breakfast-cup of salt two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a full teaspoonful of saltpetre about twenty-four cloves, twenty-four allspice, a teaspoonful o pepper, bruised and well rubbed into the beef. Bone roll, and skewer the beef, and leave in the pickle for a week. Steam for three or four hours, and place between plates with weights on it to press it firmly together. Excellent—to be eaten cold. RICE (BOILED). (Cape way.) Ingredients, i pint of Rice. 2 quarts of Water. Wash the rice three times, then put it into two quarts °f. boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt. Let it boil biiskly till the rice is soft, then drain off all the water by putting the lice in a colander; pour a pint of cold water over the rice when in the colander; put it back in the saucepan, and set it on the stove till it is quite dry and each grain of rice separates from the other. Time, half an hour. Enough for curry for six people. (See CURRY.) RICE (YELLOW). (Malay Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 pint of Rice. 1 tablespoonful of Butter. 2 quarts of Water. 1 teaspoonful of pounded Turmeric. J lb. of light yellow Sugar. Some Sultana Raisins or Currants. Wash the rice well; set it on the fire with two quarts of water and all the ingredients at once. Let it boil for half an hour. A very favourite dish with Cape children.205 RICE MILK—RISSOLES, OR CROQUETTES. [R RICE MILK. (A. homely dish,) Put a quart of milk into a pie-dish ; take half a pint of rice, wash and crush slightly, and put into the milk , set the dish in the oven, with a tin plate over it to prevent scorching. Serve with sugar. Tapioca done in the same way is very good. RISSOLES.—See also “ Frickadels.” RISSOLES, OR CROQUETTES. (Mrs. Fleming.) Mince finely about one and a half pounds of cold meat cold roast beef, fowl, or veal is best; also a few slices of ham, raw or boiled j season with salt, white peppei, nutmeg’, a very tiny shred of onion chopped to powder, and a little chopped parsley. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan ; when melted stir in gradually a large tablespoonful of flour ; then add a teacupful of milk and the "same quantity of stock. When this is sufficiently cooked to take away the rawness of the flour, stir in the meat, adding two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, three ego-s ’ lightly beaten, a little catsup, tomato sauce, or Worcestershire sauce, and if liked, a little grated lemon- peel. Stir all this for a few minutes in the stewpan, then set it to cool before shaping into balls (which can be nicely formed by pressing them in a wineglass) or into rolls slightly flattened; dip them in egg and roll in crumbs after being formed. Then put into a saucepan as much lard as when melted would cover them ; when the lard boils, drop the rissoles in, and let them get a golden brown. The lard can be used again and again. This mixture is very nice in batter. Very good.206 R] RISSOLES (FISH)—ROUND OF BEEF (SPICED). RISSOLES {FISH). (An old Dutch way.) Ingredients. i lb. of Fish, i Onion fried in Butter, i good slice of soaked Bread squeezed very dry. 2 Eggs. Mince the fish very fine ; mix with squeezed bread, flavouring, and egg, and dust a little dry biscuit into it as you are rolling it into shapes; roll in egg and fine bread- crumbs or dry biscuit pounded, and fry in lard. Serve in a hot dish, with a little melted butter and tomato sauce over it. Very good. Some Parsley. Some Nutmeg. A little Cayenne. A little Salt. ROLLS {HOT). Ingredients. 2 lb. of Flour. A teaspoonful of Soda. A little Salt. Mix the soda and salt well with the flour; then mix with buttermilk or sour milk to the consistency of ordinary dough. Cut with a knife into little rolls. Bake half an hour in a quick oven or baking-pot. For a dozen people. ROUND OF BEEF {SPICED). (Mrs. Fitzpatrick’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 24 lb. of Round of Beef. 1 oz. of Clqves. 3 oz. of Saltpetre. 1 oz. of Nutmeg. 3 oz. of coarse black Sugar. J oz. of Allspice. 3 handfuls of coarse Salt. Pound all the ingredients except the meat finely to- gether ; rub into the beef twice a day, turning it each time, for fifteen days ; put into a pan so as to be covered with the pickle liquor formed by the salt, etc., and cover207 ROUND OF BEEF (SPICED). LR the pan with a cloth. The bone must be taken out and the meat hung for twelve hours to make it tender When it is to be dressed, dip it into water to take off the oose spice, and bind it round with tape. Put it into a large pot with a teacupful of water at the bottom ; cover the top'of the meat with shred suet, a brown crust, and paper over the whole. Bake for five or six hours. The gravy can be kept for flavouring soup or hash. Very good.ps. SADDLE OF MUTTON. The best joint at the Cape is a twelve pound saddle of mutton. When hung for four days it is most beautifully tender, resembling Welsh mutton. It is easily cooked by the most ignorant of cooks. Wash and wipe dry; dust with flour, salt, and pepper, and put into a baking-pan in a hot stove oven for two hours, basting occasionally. Serve with quince or red currant jelly. SALAD DRESSING. (Mrs. Spence’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 Hard-boiled Eggs. i teaspoonful Brown Sugar, i dessertspoonful Dry Mustard. i tablespoonful Vinegar, i teaspoonful Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls Oil. J cup Cream. Crush the yolks of the eggs very fine with a table- spoon, in a basin or soup-plate, with the mustard and other dry ingredients; add the oil, little by little, till it is well mixed, then the vinegar, and lastly the cream. This sauce will keep for a week if kept well corked in a cool place. SALAD DRESSING {ANOTHER). Ingredients. ' 1 Cold Boiled Potato. A little Pepper. The Yolk of x Hard-boiled Egg. Rather more than a tablespoonful of 1 teaspoonful Dry Mustard. Oil. 1 teaspoonful Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar. 1 teaspoonful Salt. The White of Egg, chopped fine. Mix like the preceding, and add a little anchovy sauce, if liked. p 2 2 nS] SALAD (CHICKEN—CUCUMBER—GUAVA). 212 SALAD {CHICKEN). Ingredients. Cold Fowl. 2 Hard-boiled Eggs. 2 White-heart Lettuces. 2 teaspoonfuls of Mustard. 2 dessertspoonfuls of Butter, melted x teaspoonful of Sugar. (or Salad Oil). 2 tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 1 tablespoonful of Cream. Wash and dry the lettuces, reserving centre leaves; cut them fine, lay them at the bottom of the dish. Mince all the white meat from a boiled chicken or fowl (without the skin), and place it on the lettuce. Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste with the melted butter, or oil, add to it the teaspoonful of mustard, sugar, salt, pepper, and stir gradually with the vinegar. This makes the dressing. Arrange the centre leaves of the lettuce as a border, and the white of eggs, and some small, delicate cress, beetroot cut in shapes, or tomato, and, when ready to serve, pour over the chicken the salad dressing. A nice supper or lunch dish. SALAD {CUCUMBER). Ingredients. Cucumber. Cayenne, or Pepper. Spring Onion. Lucca Oil. Cut the cucumber in very thin slices across; a few slices of spring onion, two spoonfuls of vinegar, olive oil, and, just before serving, a little salt. SALAD {GUAVA SALAD, OR “ANGELS’ FOOD”). (A favourite Cape dish.) Ingredients. i^doz. Guavas. Sugar. 2 Oranges. 1 glass Sherry. Peel and slice the guavas thinly, lay them on a glass dish, sprinkle a little sugar; then a layer of oranges sprinkled with sugar ; again guavas, and so on till the dish is filled. Pour over all a glass of sherry, Let it stand for a while. It is a delicious dessert dish.213 SALAD (LOBSTER)—SANDWICHES (VICTORIA). [S SALAD (LOBSTER). Ingredients. i Lobster. 4 tablespoonfuls of Plain Vinegar. Yolks of 2 Eggs. A taste of Chilli Vinegar. i teaspoonful of Mustard. 2 tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. Some Cayenne. Some Fresh Lettuces. Pick all the meat out of a lobster; beat well the yolks of two new-laid eggs, beat in some made mustard, and, continuing to beat, drop in the salad oil; add any flavour- ing that may be preferred, a taste of chilli vinegar, some plain vinegar (four tablespoonfuls), and the soft part of the lobster. Moisten the remainder of the lobster with this sauce, and lay it at the bottom of the bowl. Cut up the lettuce, rolling it in the dressing, and put it over the lobster. SALAD (ORANGE). Ingredients. 8 Oranges. 1 wineglass of Brandy. 1 Pineapple. 4 oz. Sugar. Peel and core the oranges ; lay in a glass dish well sprinkled with sugar, with slices of pineapple between, cut thin, with the rough outside cut off; then add a large wineglass of brandy or sherry. Keep the dish closed for an hour. Delicious. SALSAFY AS AN ENTREE. Clean and scrape the salsafy, boil tender, and cut in rounds. Add a white sauce made thus : one ounce of flour, half an ounce of butter, a little milk. Butter an oyster scallop, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and bake a light brown. SANDWICHES (VICTORIA). (Mrs. Dwyer.) Ingredients. 4 Eggs. The weight of the Eggs in Butter, A little Salt. Pounded Sugar, and Flour. Beat the butter to a cream, dredge in the flour and pounded sugar; stir these well together and add the eggs,S] SASATIES OR ICABOBS. 214 first well whisked. Beat the mixture for ten minutes. Butter a Yorkshire-pudding-tin; pour in the batter and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Let it cool. Spread one-half the cake with any jam or preserve, place over it the other half, press together, and cut in long finger strips. Pile them in cross-bars on a dish and serve. SASATIES OR KABOBS. (Mrs. J. Cloete’s Recipe. Indian.) Take the thick part of a leg of mutton, cut into small square bits, and fat in between ; put into a large earthen- ware bowl. Mince a raw onion and some lemon leaves, a tablespoonful of brown sugar, half a cup of milk, mix all well together and pour over the meat. Now take three or four onions, cut small, fry in a pan with a spoonful of butter or fat to a nice brown. Take an ounce of tamarinds, pour on it a cup of boiling water; when all the strength has gone out of it, strain, and mix with the onions and let it boil; then add two spoonfuls of good curry powder or Indian curry paste (a clove of garlic if liked) chopped up, some salt; mix well together and pour over the meat. The next morning put the meat on skewers, fat and lean alternately. Carefully take all the sauce, put it into a saucepan, and boil up with a pat of butter. Roast the skewered meat (sasaties) on a gridiron heated on wood coals, and serve with the sauce. Add chutney if liked. SASATIES OR KABOBS. (A Malay or Indian Dish. My own Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 Fat Leg of Mutton. 2 oz. of Good Curry Powder. ^ cup of Vinegar, or the Juice of 3 Lemons (if not to be had, an oz. of Tamarind drawn on a cup of water gives a very pleasant acid). A tablespoonf oj of Sugar. A cup of Milk. ^ dozen Lemon or Orange Leaves. 2 oz. of Butter. 3 dozen Skewers, cut out of a Bamboo, or Iron Skewers. Salt to be added when skewered. Cut up the leg of mutton in little pieces an inch square, brown the onion, cut in thin slices, and fried in a pan in fatSASATIES-SAUCE FOR HOT BOILED FOWL. [S or butter. Mix all the ingredients well up with the cut-up meat in a deep pan or basin ; leave it for a night or longer, and when wanted, place the meat interspersed here and there with fat on the skewers. Place the gridiron on wood coals to get very hot, then grill the sasaties a nice brown. Serve hot with rice. The gravy to be well heated in a saucepan, and served with the sasaties. A very favourite picnic dish at the Cape. SASATIES—See also “Bobotee” and CURRY. SAUCE FOR COLD BOILED FOWL. Mix the maizena, salt, cayenne, and the eggs with a little of the new milk. Boil the rest of the milk, then add the maizena, etc., to it, stirring over the fire till smooth and thick. Pour out and stir till cold ; pour over the fowl. It should lie on it without dropping off. Very good. SAUCE (ANOTHER), FOR COLD BOILED FOWL. (Mrs. Spence’s Recipe.) Boil your two chickens in a cloth ; then take the feet and neck, put into a stew-pan with a cup or more of water, a small blade of mace, a slice of onion. When well boiled strain through a sieve. Take one cup of this stock, thicken with two ounces of maizena, add a cupful of cream, yolk of an egg, a little cayenne and white pepper. Let it cool, pour over the chicken. Garnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices, beetroot, pieces of carrot. A very nice dish for lunch or supper. SAUCE FOR HOT BOILED FOWL—See Sauce (White). (Mrs. Spence’s Recipe.) 1 pint New Milk. 2 oz. Butter. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 2 oz. Maizena. Ingredients. A little Salt. A pinch of Cayenne. A few strips of Lemon-Peel, and Juice.SAUCE FOR DEVILLED CHICKEN, ETC. S] 216 SAUCE FOR DEVILLED CHICKEN,, ETC. Ingredients. 4 tablespoonfuls of cold Gravy. 2 teaspoonfuls of Mustard. 1 tablespoonful of Chutney Paste. 2 teaspoonfuls of Salt. 1 tablespoonful of Ketchup. x teaspoonful of Butter. A pinch of Sugar. Mix all these ingredients as smooth as possible; warm it well. Brown your cold meat in a little butter ; then add to the mixture and simmer for a few minutes. SAUCE (.MELTED BUTTER), FOR FISH, ETC. Mix the proportion of a teaspoonful of flour to two ounces of butter. Rub the flour and butter in a saucepan ; add two tablespoonfuls boiling water, or milk, which is better than water, and if milk is used less butter is required. SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. (Bessie’s Recipe.) Ingredients. J a cup of clear Brown Sugar. ^ a cup of Water. J a cup of Sherry (or a wine- Dessertspoonful of Maizena. glass of Brandy). Stir maizena and sugar in half a cup of water till it is smooth, and let it boil; then add the wine or brandy. Time, ten minutes. This will do for any boiled pudding. Cheap. SAUCE (BREAD). (My Mother’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 pint of Milk. A small Onion. A cup of crumbled crumb of Bread. A Blade of Mace. A teaspoonful of Butter. A little Pepper and Salt. Peel and cut the onion in quarters; simmer in the milk till tender ; then take out. Stir the fine bread-crumbs into the boiling milk ; beat it with a fork very smoothly. Add the seasoning and butter and a little white pepper. Give one more boil. To enrich the sauce a spoonful of cream may be added. Time altogether, half an hour. Serve with turkey, chickens, partridge, etc.217 SAUCE (CAPER—CUSTARD-FISH). [S SAUCE (CAPEE), FOR BOILED MUTTON. Add a few spoonfuls of capers to a good white sauce. SAUCE (CUSTARD), FOR TARTS AND PUDDINGS. Ingredients. 1 pint of Milk. 2 spoonfuls of Sugar. 2 Eggs. A spoonful of Brandy. Stir two well-beaten eggs into a pint of hot milk and pounded sugar—sweeten to taste—in a jug. Set the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, stir till the consistency of thick cream. Serve over puddings or handed round in a sauce-boat. Care must be taken not to let it boil. SAUCE (DUTCH), FOR FISH. (Mrs. Kotze’s Recipe.) Ingredients. A tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar The Yolks of 2 or 3 Eggs. (or the thin part of Tomato Sauce ; 2 oz. of Butter. when bottled, the upper part will Some Salt. become quite clear). A tablespoonful of Cream. Whip up the yolks well in a small saucepan with the vinegar. Keep stirring over the fire till the consistency of rich custard. Don't let it boil. Then take the butter and stir that in on the fire; keep stirring all the time. Lastly, add the cream. Time, about six or seven minutes. Must be served at once. SAUCE (EXCELLENT FOR FISH). (Mrs. Dwyer’s Recipe.) Ingredients. \ a cup of Cream. A little Chilli Vinegar. 1 teaspoonful of Flour. A little Soy. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. A very little Cayenne Pepper. A piece of Butter, the size of a Walnut. Rub the flour and butter together ; set it on the fire with the cream, stirring well till boiled,, for three or four minutes; then add anchovy, chilli vinegar, a few drops of soy, and a pinch of cayenne.218 S] SAUCE (HORSERADISH—OYSTER—PARSLEY). SAUCE (HORSERADISH). Scrape or mince the horseradish. Mix with a little salt, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a tablespoonful of cream. Good with cold beef or mutton. Put the yolks with pepper, salt, etc., in a round-bottomed basin; stir with a wooden spoon, adding first salad oil, then vinegar, cream, etc. until all looks like thick cream. Will keep if closely corked. SAUCE {ONION), FOR SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Peel four or five white onions, put them in salt and water for half an hour; then boil in a saucepan, well covered with water, till soft; drain thoroughly; chop fine; mix with melted butter, according to the previous recipe for melted butter. This is a delicious sauce for boiled leg or shoulder of mutton. About one and a half dozen oysters, raw or potted, to half a pint of good melted butter; a seasoning of cayenne pepper. Cream used instead of milk is a great improvement. SAUCE (PARSLEY). Two spoonfuls of chopped parsley added to melted butter or white sauce. SAUCE (MAYONNAISE). (Mrs. Jackson’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 3 Eggs (yolks only). 3 tablespoonfuls Oil—Lucca. 3 tablespoonfuls ordinary Vinegar, i tablespoonful Tarragon Vinegar. J a teaspoonful White Pepper. 4 a teaspoonful Salt. 7) teaspoonful Sugar. Some Cayenne. 2 spoonfuls Yorkshire Relish. 4 tablespoonfuls Cream. SAUCE (OYSTER).219 SAUCE PIQUANTE—SAUCE (TOMATO, TO KEEP). [S SAUCE PIQUANTE. (Indian Recipe.) Ingredients. 8 oz. Green Mangoes or Apricots. 4 oz. Onions. 8 oz. Raisins. 2 oz- Garlic. 8 oz. Salt. 8 oz. Ginger. 8 oz. Sugar. i a bottle of Lime Juice. 4 oz. Red Chillies. 3 bottles of Vinegar. Pound the several ingredients well, add the vinegar and lime juice, close the jar well, and for one month expose to the sun; shake and stir it well every day. Afterwards strain into bottles. The residuum is excellent Chutney. SAUCE (TOMATO, TO USE SAME DAY). Boil one dozen tomatoes to a pulp ; strain through a soup strainer, add salt, and pepper, and cayenne. Very nice with chops or cutlets, adding an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar. SAUCE (TOMATO, TO KEEP). (Mrs. Dan Cloete’s Recipe.) 40 large Ripe Tomatoes, j lb. Coarse Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of Cloves. 2 tablespoonfuls of Mace. 3 Horseradish roots. Ingredients. •2\ bottles of Vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls of Ginger. 2 tablespoonfuls of Coriander Seeds. 6 large Onions ; a little Garlic may be added. 8 large Red Chillies or more. Take forty very ripe tomatoes cut into quarters, sprinkle with a quarter of a pound of salt, let it stand for three or four hours; drain off the water. Put the tomatoes in a stewpan with all the spices tied up in a muslin bag, slightly bruised. Boil for at least three hours, then strain through a coarse sieve; boil again for half an hour, bottle whilst hot.SAUCE (TOMATO—WHITE). S] 220 SAUCE {TOMATO). (Mrs. Jackson.) Take eight pounds of tomatoes, cut and stew till tender; eight large onions, two cloves of garlic, the rind of six lemons, six bottles of vinegar, one spoonful of cloves, one spoonful of allspice, three tablespoonfuls of ginger, three tablespoonfuls of salt (spices to be crushed and put in a bag), fourteen red chillies; boil all well together for four hours, strain through a sieve. Add the juice of six lemons. Cork while hot. SAUCE {TOMATO). (A very good Recipe.) Ingredients. 40 lb. Ripe Tomatoes. 1 oz. Cayenne, or 8 Red Chillies. 1 oz. Peeled Garlic. 2 oz. Black Pepper. 2 lb. Loaf Sugar. 2 oz. Cloves. 1 lb. Salt. 4 oz. Ginger. 3 quarts of the Best Vinegar. First boil the tomatoes until the skins and seeds separate freely, strain through a coarse sieve that will retain seeds and skins. To this juice add the above ingredients tied in a muslin bag. Boil all well for an hour or more, till the juice is quite creamy and thick. Bottle and cork securely; keep in a cool place. SAUCE {WHITE), FOR HOT BOILED CHICKEN. (Mrs. Etheridge.) Ingredients. 2 tablespoonfuls of Flour. A little Lemon-Peel. 1 oz. of Butter. A little Salt. 1 pint of Milk. A little White Pepper. Some Button Mushrooms. Stir flour and butter together; boil the milk, add to the flour, and stir till creamy; add juice of a lemon, and pour the sauce over the boiled chicken. The chicken to be previously boiled in a floured cloth for one and a half hours.221 SAUCE (WHITE)—SAVOURIES—SAVOURY MIXTURE. [S ANOTHER SAUCE (WHITE). (Mrs. D. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. i dessertspoonful of Maizena, i oz. of Butter, or Corn-flour. A little Salt. A little White Pepper. Stir the flour and butter well together dry (this prevents it getting into lumps) ; pour over it half a teacupful of boiling water; stir on the stove till thick, then remove; add the yolk of an egg and juice of a lemon well beaten up, and pour over chicken. SAUSAGES. (Our own Recipe.) Ingredients. 12 lb. of Minced Meat. \ tablespoonful of Allspice. S lb. of Fat (fresh Bacon). \ tablespoonful of Mace. 2 oz of Pepper. h tablespoonful of mixed Thyme and 3 tablespoonfuls of Salt. “ Sage, dried and powdered. i tablespoonful of grated Nutmeg. i pint of Claret. Take the lean of one or two legs of mutton, and any scraps of meat that fall away in cutting up a pig. Mince all this, taking care not to let any sinew come with it, then mince the fat; mix all well, together. Have ready some nicely-cleaned skins, and stuff the mince into them with a sausage-machine. Will keep for eight or ten days. When wanted, grill on the gridiron or in a pan; time for grilling, a quarter of an hour. This quantity makes a great deal ; half would do for a small party. SAVOURIES. See Bloater Toast, Cheese Straws, Eggs (Italian), Savoury Toast. SAVOURY MIXTURE {TO POUR OVER MEAT). Melt an ounce or more of butter in a stewpan; mix in a tablespoonful of made mustard, a little black and cayenne pepper, and a tablespoonful of stock; beat well. This is good to pour over a grilled chop or steak.222 S] SAVOURY TOAST—SCONES—SHAPE (COLD MEAT). SAVOURY TOAST. Ingredients. 4 boned Sardines. ^ saltspoonful of Cayenne, i teaspoonful of Worcestershire Sauce. i oz. of Butter. Pound the ingredients with the sardines, and spread on hot buttered toast. SCONES (FOR FIVE O'CLOCK TEA). Ingredients. 2 lb. of Flour. 4 oz. of Butter or Fat. i pint of Milk. i teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Mix well together ; roll out half an inch thick, and cut with a wineglass. Bake twenty minutes. Cut in two, and butter, and send in hot. SCONES. Ingredients. 1 lb. of Flour. A few Currants, if liked. 2 oz. of Butter. \ lb. of Sugar, i teaspoonful of Baking Powder. i Egg. Beat the egg in half a cupful of water; mix quickly and thoroitghly with the other ingredients. Divide into rounds, which cut into four little cakes each and bake. SHAPE (COLD MEAT). Butter a plain mould; chop up any kind of cold meat you may have; add some stock, warmed, with about three ounces of gelatine, flavoured with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon juice. Have some hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, garnish the mould with them, pour the mixture into the mould. Turn out when cold.SHORTBREAD—SILK (TO RENOVATE BLACK). [S SHORTBREAD. (Mrs. Cloete.) Ingredients. 2 lb. Flour. 12 oz. Sugar, finely powdered. 4 Eggs. i lb. Butter. Rub the flour and sugar well into the butter, make into a stiff paste with four eggs, roll to double the thickness of a penny. Bake in a warm oven for twenty minutes. SHORTBREAD (ANOTHER). Ingredients. i lb. Flour. Jib. Butter. t. it>. Sugar. A large handful of Ground Rice. Season with Nutmeg. Mix ingredients with flour, rub in the butter until it becomes a dough; roll out and cut into shape. Bake in a moderate oven. SHORTBREAD (SCOTCH). (Emily’s Recipe.) Ingredients. x lb. Flour. 9 oz. Butter. Rub well together ; roll out and cut. Put pieces of candied peel across each cake. Bake twenty minutes. SILK (TO RENOVATE BLACK). Take about two ounces of black tea, boil it well in a saucepan, add to it a few grains of washing soda or car- bonate of soda and a little dissolved gum arabic. Strain, and sponge the silk thoroughly with this mixture hot. Hang the pieces of silk on a horse to drain, roll up smoothly, and iron whilst damp. Coffee is very good too, cleansing the silk, and removing every stain or grease-spot. The coffee must be hot and well strained. ."23SILK (FOR CLEANING)—SNOW EGGS. S] 224 SILK (FOR CLEANING). Dissolve an ounce of ammonia in a quart of hot water, and, with a piece of sponge or black serge, rub till stains are removed. This also does for cloth. SILK (FOR CLEANING RIBBON\ SILKS, ETC.). Ingredients. i tablespoonful Gin. i tablespoonful Honey, i tablespoonful Soft Soap. The White of an Egg. Mix all well together. Dip the ribbon, or any silk you want to clean, in water, then lay on a board and scrub with the mixture, using a soft brush. Rinse in cold water, fold in a cloth, and iron half-dry. It will look like new. SILK (TO CLEAN AN OLD SILK DRESS). Unpick and brush and wipe. Then grate two large potatoes into a quart of water; let it stand to settle, then strain. Sponge the dress well with it, hang out, and iron with tissue paper over the silk. Black silk can also be cleaned by sponging with gin. Paint spots to be removed by spirits of turpentine. SILK (TO TAKE STAINS OR GREASE SPOTS OUT OF). Scrape some French chalk and lay it on the spot, put some blotting-paper over, and leave it for a day or two; all the grease will be extracted. SILK OR CLOTH (TO TAKE OUT WAX CANDLE OR SPOTS OF SPERM). Lay a piece of blotting-paper on the spot, put a live coal of fire in a kitchen spoon, hold it on the spot; all the grease wall be absorbed in the blotting-paper. SNOW EGGS.—See Eggs.SOUFFLE (CHEESE—EGG). [S 225 SOUFFLE (CHEESE). Ingredients. ^ oz. Butter. Breakfast-cup of Grated Cheese, i tablespoonful Flour. Yolk of 3 Eggs, Whites tbeaten i pint Milk. separately into a froth. A little Salt and Pepper—Cayenne. Melt the butter, mix with the flour, add milk slowly, salt, and pepper (cayenne) ; then add grated cheese and yolks of eggs, lastly the whites of the eggs. Put into a flat buttered dish ; leave to bake a nice brown. Serve hot. Time, twenty minutes. SOUFFLE (ANOTHER CHEESE). Ingredients. J lb. Cheese, Mustard. 1 quart Milk. Cayenne. 3 Eggs- Salt. Cut the cheese very thinly, mix with the eggs well whisked, then add about one eggspoonful mustard, a little cayenne and salt, a very little cold milk. Set the quart of milk to boil, add a teaspoonful of butter; pour on the cheese, etc. Bake a light brown. Can be eaten hot or cold. SOUFFLE (EGG). (Miss Bonnie Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 6 Eggs. Juice and Peel of 1 Lemon. 6 tablespoonfuls Sifted Sugar. A little Nutmeg. Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the yolks to the sugar, lemon juice, and peel, and a little nutmeg, and lastly, just before putting in the oven, the whites, which must be a perfect froth. Mix all thoroughly but lightly? Q226 S] SOUFFLE (TAPIOCA)—SOUP (HOW TO CLARIFY). and only just before you want it, as it can't stand a minute, or the yolks will sink. When baked it ought to be a frothy brown sponge. Takes ten minutes. Serve immediately. SOUFFLt {TAPIOCA). Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful Tapioca. i pint of Milk. 2 oz. of White Sugar. 4 Eggs. Soak the tapioca in water till quite soft, then set it to boil till it is the consistency of porridge, sweeten to taste; flavour with vanilla or lemon-peel. When cold whisk up the eggs separately, beat up with the pudding, pour into a souffle mould. Bake twenty minutes, and serve immediately. SOUP {BROWNING FOR). Put about four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of butter, into a stewpan; set it on the fire to brown, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon that it may not burn. When sufficiently melted, stir in a pint of boiling water; let it boil, and skim well. When cold, bottle and cork. A tablespoonful or more will colour your soup. SOUP OR STOCK {HOW TO CLARIFY). About three or four quarts of good stock boiled the previous day, well skimmed; whites of two eggs, well whisked, stirred into the stock ; then put on the fire to boil. After it has boiled up once, draw it away from the fire; pour in a cup of cold water; let it stand for five minutes; strain through a fine cloth placed over a sieve; it will be clear and good. Stock for clear soups must be made strong, as it loses strength by being clarified.SOUP (CURRY—BROWN—HARE). [S 227 SOUP {CURRY). (Cape Recipe.) Head and feet of sheep, lamb, or calf, boiled till quite tender in three or four quarts of water. The next day, when cold, remove all the fat. Cut small, and take out the bones; brown an onion in fat; add two tablespoonfuls of curry powder, one tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar or lemon. Stir all together in the liquid in which the meat, etc., has boiled. Serve in soup tureen, with boiled rice handed round separately on plate. A homely dish. SOUP {BROWN). (My Mother’s Recipe.) Make a good stock of either neck of mutton (three pounds will make two quarts of excellent stock) or shin of beef. Add some fried onions ; let all boil well together. When strained, add two spoonfuls of brow?i flour. Take a spoonful of sugar and a little butter; let it melt together till quite a dark brown. Mix with the flour a good glass of dark wine, eight cloves, a blade of mace, some pepper, bruised ; add all to the soup ; let it boil for two or three hours. Serve with toasted bread, cut like dice, and fried in butter. SOUP {HARE). (Home Recipe.) Ingredients. Remains of cold Roast Hare. 2 oz. Browned Flour. Some good Stock. 1 tablespoonful Brown Sugar. 1 doz. Cloves. \ pint Port Wine. ^ oz. whole Black Pepper. 2 small Onions, Fried. Trim off the best parts of the cold hare and put on one side. Chop all the bones, etc., and simmer for an hour in a few quarts of stock flavoured with the above seasoning. Strain through a sieve on the pieces of cold hare ; let it boil once. Serve with toasted bread or very small square fried sippets. Q 2SOUP (MULLIGATAWNY—OX-TAIL). S] 228 SOUP (.MULLIGATAWNY). Ingredients. 1 Fowl (it may be an old one). 2 oz. of Curry Powder. 1 dessertspoonful of Indian Curry Paste. 2 Onions. i tablespoonful of Butter or Fat. i tablespoonful of Brown Sugar, i oz of Tamarinds, drawn in a cup of hot water, i teaspoonful or more of Salt, i dessertspoonful of Chutney, i tablespoonful of Flour. Cut up the fowl into small pieces, as for chicken curry; if an old one, let it boil gently for four or five hours, with two or three quarts of water; if you have a neck of mutton, or any other meat that will make some stock, you may add a little to this. The next day remove the fat and strain the soup, putting back any nice pieces of the fowl. A few slices of ham may also be added, to make a good stock. Brown the onions, mix all the ingredients, add to the soup, and let it all boil for a couple of hours. Send in hot, with boiled rice on a separate dish. SOUP (OX-TAIL). 2 Ox-tails. J lb. of lean Ham. 1 head of Celery. 2 Carrots. 2 Turnips. 2 Onions. Ingredients. i bunch of Savoury Herbs. 5 Cloves. i teaspoonful of Peppercorns, i Bay Leaf. i wineglassful of Ketchup, i wineglassful of Port Wine. 3 quarts of Water. Cut up the ox-tails, separating the joints ; put them in a stewing-pan with an ounce and a half of butter, one head of celery, two onions, two turnips, two carrots, cut in slices, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, cut very thin, the peppercorns, savoury herbs, and one pint of water; stir over a quick fire for a short time, to extract the flavour of the herbs, until the pan is covered with a glaze; then pour in three quarts of water; skim it well, and simmer slowly for four hours, until the meat is tender. Take it out, strain the soup, stir in a little brownedSOUP (POTATO)—SOUP A LA REINE. [S flour to thicken, add port wine, ketchup, and head of celery (previously boiled) cut fine; put the tails back into the stewpan of strained soup; boil up for a few minutes and serve. This soup can be served clear by omitting the flour, and adding to it carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes. These may be boiled in a little soup, and put into the tureen before sending to table. SOUP {POTATO). Ingredients. c_> 2 quarts of White Stock. i Onion. 6 large mealy Potatoes. Some White Pepper. i oz. of Butter, rolled in a A little Cayenne, tablespoonful of Flour. Salt to taste. ^ teacupful of Cream. Put two quarts of white stock into a stewpan ; take six large mealy potatoes, boil and mash them until they are sufficiently soft to pulp through a sieve, with an onion boiled tender; add to the stock. Thicken with butter rolled in flour, and season with pepper, salt, and cayenne; just before serving stir in the cream, and do not let it boil again. SOUP A LA REINE. (My own Recipe.) Ingredients. 2 quarts of nice White Stock (may be i Onion. boiled from an old fowl). Some Nutmeg, i cup of Fine Bread-crumbs. White Pepper. A large cup of good Cream. Put an old fowl in a stewpan with water enough to cover it well; let it simmer for three or four hours ; if the water has diminished, add a little more hot. About a pound of neck of mutton, or veal, may be added, and an onion. Let it boil till you have a good stock, skim well; let it get cold, and strain. The next day, when it has boiled up, add the bread-crumbs, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and, just before serving, the cup of cream. Can be served with toasted bread cut in dice. 22')230 S] SOUP (TOMATO)—SPRITZE—STEAK (PICKLED). SOUP (TOMATO). (My own Recipe.) Take about a dozen nice ripe tomatoes, boil quite tender, with an onion ; mash, and strain. Add to two quarts of good stock ; thicken with a pat of butter rolled in flour; flavour with a green chilli, cut up, just before serving. SPRITZE. (Another Dutch Sped a HR.) Ingredie7its. 3 lb. of Flour. $ lb. Butter. 10 Eggs. 2 bottles of Milk. Boil the butter and milk, stir in the flour and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Pour the paste in a dish, and when cold mix ten eggs with it; beat well till it drops clean off a spoon. Let it drop into a saucepan of boiling lard or fat in tiny balls. Fry a nice brown. Serve with sugar and pounded and sifted cinnamon. The old Dutch people had a tin through which they pressed the dough into the boiling fat. (Another recipe says, one pound of flour to eight eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, and one pint of milk.) STEAK (PICKLED). Lay two pounds of steak in a dish with sliced onions, half a dozen cloves, two dozen whole pepper, a bay leaf, sprig of thyme, marjoram, and parsley, a tablespoonful of salad oil, tarragon vinegar enough just to come up to the steak; let it soak for twelve hours, turning occasionally. Then take it out, and grill the steak in a hot pan, turning constantly. Stew the mixture, add a teaspoonful of salt, and let the steak simmer in it, taking out the spices, etc., before serving in a hot dish. Enough for six people.231 “SWARTZUIR”—SYLLABUB—SYRUP (LEMON). [S “ SWARTZ UIRL (A homely Cape Dish.) 3 lb. of Ribs of Mutton. 1 Onion. 2 oz. of Tamarinds. Ingredients. 6 Cloves. 12 Peppercorns, finely bruised, i tablespoonful of Brown Sugar. Salt/ Cut the meat as you would for curry, put in a stew- pan with the onion and a pint of water. When it has simmered for an hour take out a cup of the boiling stock, skimming the top so as to remove all the fatty particles. Stir into this boiling soup a large cup of fine flour stii well over the fire till it is a thick dough, now set it to cool. When quite cold work into the dough one or two eggs ; of this make dumplings the size of a walnut. After this cup of soup has been taken from the meat, stir into it the tamarinds soaked in a pint of boiling water, spices, etc.; let it boil well, and half an hour before serving stir in the dumplings. Serve as an entree. The old recipe had the blood of a duck instead of tamarinds. SYLLABUB. (Mrs. Etheridge’s Recipe.) Ingredients. l pint of White Wine. 2 oz. Loaf Sugar. 1 pint of Rich Cream. Juice and Peel of a small Lemon. Rub the sugar on the peel to extract all the flavour from the peel, then add to the cream, and whisk well. Take about one ounce of sifted sugar and add it the last thing, as it tends to make the cream thicker. Put into glasses. Excellent. For another Syllabub Recipe see Trifle. SYRUP {LEMON). (An old Cape Recipe.) Squeeze the juice of fifty lemons, and for every quart of lemon juice take three pounds of sugar. Tet the lemon juice and sugar dissolve in an earthen jar placed inS] SYRUP (LEMON). 232 a saucepan of boiling water. Let it simmer in this manner till all the sugar is melted and the whole a rich, thick syrup. Bottle when cold, and cork well. The lemon juice to be strained before mixing with the sugar. A delicious drink in hot weather. SYRUP (ANOTHER LEMON). (G. Versfeld.) Ingredients. 6 lb. of Sugar, and 4 bottles of Water, i oz. Tartaric Acid dissolved in a boiled to a Syrup, and strained. tumbler of Water. ^ teaspoonful of Oil of Lemon. Stir all together; let it settle, then bottle and cork well. A little taken with soda water, cr in plain water, is very refreshing in summer.V \ ./T. “ TAMELETTJES. (A favourite Cape Sweet.) For two basins of sugar take one basin of water, boil into a syrup, clarify with an egg, boil briskly till it is all frothy; then fill little square paper shapes or ramaquin cases with this, after having mixed it with some almonds and grated lemon-peel, or naartje (Tangerine orange) peek Let it cool before serving. Line a tin dish with puff paste, peel and quarter one dozen apples, lay them in the dish, also some blanched and pounded almonds, half a bottle of milk, butter beaten to a cream, four eggs, and one cup of sugar, and some cinnamon to taste, all mixed together, poured into the dish, covering the apples. Bake in an oven for an hour and more. I have found that anything requiring some time to bake must be covered with a tin plate at first, which can be removed when half-done. TAPIOCA.—See Rice Milk. TART {APPLE). (Recipe from an old German Cookery Book.) Ingredients. Puff Paste. Apples. Almonds, i pint Milk. £ lb. Butter. 4 Eggs, i cup Sugar. Pounded Cinnamon. 2 37T] TART (COCOA-NUT—MILK). 238 TART {COCOA-NUT). (“ Klapper-Taart.” From a very old Dutch Book.) Rasp two cocoa-nuts into their weight in sugar, add a good spoonful of butter, a cup of milk, and some cinnamon. Boil all together till it is quite stiff; then line a tart-dish with puff paste, and pour the mixture in. Bake for half an hour. Very good. TART {COCOA-NUT), ANOTHER WAY. (Old Dutch Recipe.) Grate the cocoa-nut very fine, take the weight in sugar, half an ounce of butter, one egg, white and yolk whisked separately, some cinnamon. Mix well together; line a tart-dish (ordinary tin kitchen plate) with puff paste. Bake in a quick oven till a nice brown. Another way is to boil the cocoa-nut in a syrup made from the sugar, and when cold add the egg and butter; but the first has been tried and is very good. TART {MILK). (Old Dutch Speciality) Ingredients. 1 pint of Milk. A tablespoonful of Maizena. 2 tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 2 Eggs. A tablespoonful of Butter. A stick of Cinnamon. Boil the milk with sugar and cinnamon, stir butter and maizena and a little cold milk together, pour into the boiling milk. Boil for five minutes, pour into a basin, and when cold add two eggs well whisked. Line a tart-dish with paste, pour in this mixture, and bake for twenty minutes.239 TART (DUTCH POTATO). [T TART (.DUTCH POTATO). (“ Aardappelen Taart.” Mrs. Myburgh, from an old Dutch Recipe Book.) Ingredients. i lb. Potatoes. io Sweet Almonds, i lb. Loaf Sugar. 25 Bitter Almonds. 8 Eggs. Some Rose-water. Boil the potatoes well, mash very fine; beat the yolks and whites separately; mix the yolks with the sugar; then add potatoes, then the whites, and lastly almonds, blanched and pounded with rose-water. Weigh the potatoes before you peel and boil them. Bake as you would a sponge- cake in a moderate oven for an hour. TART (.ANOTHER POTATO). Ingredients. 1 lb. Potatoes (weighed before 20 Bitter Almonds. peeling). J lb. Sugar. 180 Sweet Almonds. 8 Eggs. Mix like the other. Line a tart-dish with puff paste, and fill with this mixture. Bake a nice brown. TART {POTATO). (A similar Recipe. Cape. Mrs. Myburgh.) Ingredients. £ lb. Potatoes (boiled and 6 well-beaten Eggs. well mashed). 100 Sweet Almonds. £ lb. Sugar. 25 Bitter Almonds. Rose-water. Blanch and pound the almonds with rose-water, mix with the sugar; stir in the potatoes. Bake in a pie-dish lined with puff paste.T] TART (WALNUT)—TEA CAKES. 240 TART (WALNUT). (An old German Cake. Mrs. Van der Riet.) Ingrediefits. A stale Sponge Cake. i pint of Milk. ioo Walnuts. 2 Eggs. 1 spoonful of Sugar. Take a hundred walnuts (or a grated cocoa-nut) ; shell and pound the walnuts—it should be a teacupful. Make a custard of the milk and eggs, and a spoonful of sugar. Add the pounded walnuts, stirring until it thickens, then pour into a basin to cool. Cut your cake in slices (a plain round mould is best), putting them together carefully; then put the bottom piece on a dish, cover it with some of the walnut custard, put the next slice so as to fit, and put on some custard, and so on till the cake is built up again. Of the whites of the eggs make an icing. Ice the whole cake; ornament the top with pieces of walnut and some little bits of icing coloured with cochineal. If cocoa-nut is used instead of walnuts, boil it with sugar into a syrup, as you do cocoa-nut ice. An excellent way of using up a stale sponge cake. TARTLETS (MARMALADE CREAM). Line some patty-pans with puff paste: now fill them with this mixture : one tablespoonful of apricot marmalade,, the yolks of two eggs, one white, the weight of one egg in butter and in sugar. Whip all to a cream; put into the little tins. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. To be eaten cold. TEA CAKES (EXCELLENT TEA BISCUITS). (Miss Becker’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 lb. of Crystallised Sugar. 3 Eggs. x lb. of Flour. 1 teaspoonful of pounded Rock 1 lb. of Butter. Ammonia. 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, then add whites and vanilla; mix the ammonia dry with the flour.241 TEA CAKES (“BUTTER BISCUITS’’—GERMAN). [T then mix all well together, like dough for bread; roll between the hands pieces of the dough, and cut with a knife to the size of a pigeon’s egg. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. TEA CAKES (“BUTTER BISCUITS*). 3 lb. of Flour, i lb. of Sugar. lb. of Butter. 5 Eggs. Ingredients. 2 tablespoonfuls of pounded Rock Ammonia, or Sal Volatile. 2 tablespoonfuls of Caraway Seeds, slightly bruised, i tumblerful of Cold Water. Yl hisk up the eggs and mix with butter and sugar ; then mix all up together. Knead well, roll out with rolling-pin, prick with a fork, and make into shapes with a wineglass, or any other mould. Bake for half an hour on buttered tins. TEA CAKES (“COOKIES”). (Mrs. Fleming’s Book.) Mix together one pound of white sugar, one pound of flour, and half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; rub into a quarter of a pound of butter. Make into a soft paste with three eggs, well beaten, and a dessertspoonful of cream or milk ; essence of almonds to taste. Roll out half an inch thick, and cut with a wineglass. Bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. TEA CAKES (GERMAN). (Miss Becker’s Recipe.) x lb. of Butter, i lb. of Sugar. 9 Eggs, i lb. of Flour. Ingredients. So Almonds. J lb. of Currants, i teaspoonful of Cinnamon, i teaspoonful of Rock Ammonia. Stir the butter to a cream ; mix well with fine white sugar, the yolks of nine eggs and whites of two; beat with sugar and butter; then one pound of flour, half a teaspoonful of finely powdered rock ammonia. Butter some paper, and put into pans in a quick oven; drop the R242 T] TEA CAKES (HILDA’S—RICE—ROCK CAKES). mixture with a spoon on the paper, and sprinkle over the top cut-up almonds, mixed with the currants, cinnamon, and crystallised sugar. Bake twenty minutes. Most delicious little cakes. TEA CAKES (HILDA’S). Ingredients. i lb. Flour. i doz. Cloves, pounded, i lb. Sugar. A teaspoonful of Sifted Cinnamon. 4 Eggs. A teaspoonful of Soda, i lb. Butter. A teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar. 25 Almonds. Beat up the yolks and whites well. Mix with the butter and sugar and the almonds pounded; add the soda, cream of tartar, and spices to the flour dry ; mix all well with the hand, and put on buttered pans, about the size of a walnut, with the point of a knife. Bake for twenty minutes. TEA CAKES (RICE). Ingredients. 1 tea-cup of Graund Rice. Essence of Vanilla or Almonds. 2 Eggs. 1 tea-cup of Sifted Sugar. Whisk up the sugar and eggs in a round basin well; then add rice; whisk for twenty minutes; add an eggspoon of essence ; put a teaspoonful in patty tins; bake in a quick oven from five to ten minutes. TEA CAKES (ROCK CAKES). (Miss Lilia Spence’s Recipe.) ^ lb. Butter. 1 lb. Flour. |*lb. Moist Sugar. 2 Eggs. Ingredients. i lb. of Currants. I a tumbler of Brandy (or White Wine). Some Lemon-Peel. 50 Pounded Almonds. Whisk butter with the sugar, then yolks and whites of eggs. Mix all the other ingredients with the flour; knead into the eggs and butter; lastly, mix the brandy or wine; drop on buttered paper in tins, and bake for half an hour.243 TEA CAKES (SPONGE)—TOAD IN THE HOLE [T TEA CAKES (ST0AGE). Ingredients. 6 Eggs. The Grated Rind of 2 Lemons or J lb. of Flour. Naartje-Peel (Tangerine Orange). | lb. Sugar. Whisk the yolks well with the sugar till it rises in bubbles, then the whites stiffly ; then add flour and peel. Bake in little tins, well buttered, in a moderate oven for half an hour. TEA CAKES (“ ZOUTE KOEKIES”). (Very old Dutch Recipe. Mrs. Van der Riet.) Ingredients. 4 lb. of Flour. 3 lb. of good clear Brown Sugar. 1 lb. of Butter. J lb. of Sheep-tail Fat. 1 lb. of Pounded Almonds (or 200 Almonds pounded without blanching). 4 Eggs. x tablespoonful of Potash or Car- bonate of Soda. 1 tablespoonful of Cloves (finely pounded). 2 tablespoonfuls of Cinnamon. A tumbler of Dark Wine (Claret). First rub flour, sugar, butter, spices, and soda well together; lastly, add the wine; knead all well together. If potash is used, it must be dissolved in the wine—is best mixed over-night. Roll the dough out with a rolling-pin ; make into shapes with a wineglass or any thin shape. Bake on buttered tins. The old Dutch people put a small piece of citron preserve in the centre of each little cake. Bake for twenty minutes in a tolerably brisk oven. Very good. TEA CAKES.—See also “Oblitje” and Scones and Cakes. TOAD IN THE HOLE. (An economical dish for a large family.) 2 lbs. Loin of Mutton. An eggspoon of Pepper. A dust of Nutmeg. A tablespoonful of Flour. A tablespoonful of Tomato Sauce. Ingredients. A batter made of 1^ cups of Flour. 1 pint of Skim Milk, or Butter-milk. 1 oz. or more of melted Suet or clarified Dripping. Half a teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda, stirred into the dry flour. Cut the mutton in cutlet shapes, roll in flour, salt, and spices ; lay them in a dish, and pour over them the spoon- ful of tomato sauce and a quarter of a cup of water. Mix up the batter, and pour on the top. Put the pie-dish in the oven. Takes one and a half hours to bake. r 2244 T] TOMATO BREDEE—TOMATO STUFFED—TRIFLE. TOMATO BREDEE. (Cape. H. D.) Cut up two pounds of ribs of mutton and an onion ; let it stew in a flat pot for an hour. Cut up and add eight or ten tomatoes in slices, also a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of sugar, and half a red chilli. If there is a great deal of liquid, remove the lid, and let it simmer till it is all a rich, creamy-looking sauce. Remove the fat. Serve with plain boiled rice. A very nice entree. TOMATO STUFFED. Extract some of the inside of the tomato ; mix bread- crumbs, cheese chopped, onion, and pepper, with an egg. Stuff the tomato with this mixture; sprinkle over with bread-crumbs and a piece of butter. Bake for an hour. Tomatoes plainly cut in halves and sprinkled with crumbs an<^ butter, and fried or baked in the oven, make a very nice vegetable. TRIFLE. (Mrs. Etheridge’s Book.) Ingredients. 1 tumbler of Madeira or Sherry. lb. of Macaroons. 2 wineglasses of French Brandy. i pint of rich Boiled Custard. 4 Sponge Biscuits. i pint of Syllabub. Soak four sponge biscuits and half a pound of maca- roons in the Madeira and Frejich brandy. Then cover the bottom of a glass dish with half of these, pour over them a pint of rich custard previously made, then lay the remainder of the soaked biscuits upon them, and pile over the whole, to the depth of two or three inches, the whipped syllabub, well drained ; the whipped syllabub to be made the day before, or some hours before, as fol- lows : Take half a pint of cream, half a glass of light wine, and a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar; take a clean dry whisk, and whip the cream to a stiff froth with the wine, adding the sugar last of all. When the wine has drained to the bottom, carefully skim the light, frothy cream, and pack it on the top of the last layer of macaroons. Excellent.245 TOFFEE (COCOA-NUT)—TURKEY (BOILED). [T TOFFEE (COCOA-NUT). Ingredients. i Cocoa-nut. i lb. Sugar. Grate a fresh cocoa-nut; boil the sugar with the milk of the cocoa-nut and a cup of water; when nice and thick, add the grated cocoa-nut. Stir all the time, till you see it coming quite clear off from the sides, then take off. Grease the dishes on which you pour it, mark it out with a knife in squares, and let it get cold. Very good. TURKEY {BOILED). Hen turkeys are preferable for boiling, on account of their whiteness and tenderness. They should not be dressed until they have been hung two or three days, as they will not be tender. Pluck the bird carefully, and singe with a piece of paper ; wash well, and wipe with a dry cloth ; cut off head and neck ; draw the strings, or sinews, of the thighs; cut off the legs at the first joint, draw the legs into the body, and fill the breast with force- meat, or stuffing; run skewers through wing and middle joint of leg quite into wing and leg on opposite side ; break the breastbone, and make the bird look as round as possible. Way of cooking.—Put the turkey into sufficient hot water to cover it, let it come to a boil, then carefully remove all scum ; if this is attended to there is no occasion to boil the bird in a floured cloth, but it should be well covered with water. Let it simmer very gently for one and a quarter to one and three-quarter hours, according to the size, and serve with either white, celery, oyster, or mush- room sauce, a little of which should be poured over the turkey. Boiled ham, bacon, or tongue always accompanies this dish; and when oyster sauce is served, the turkey is always stuffed with oyster forcemeat. A simple stuffing for Turkey.—Soak a penny loaf of stale bread in either milk or water, press well; take a good lump of butter or suet, a little sugar, pepper, nutmeg, salt, some sweet herbs, an egg. Mix all well together, and stuff turkey or fowl.I251 V. VANDERHUM—See Liqueur. VEAL CAKE. Ingredients. J lb. of Bread-crumbs. Salt, Pepper, Cayenne. A few Cloves, pounded. Mix all well together with a couple of raw eggs, put into a plain mould, steam for two hours, then put into an oven to dry a little; turn out when cold. Cut in slices. A nice luncheon dish. Mutton done in the same way is very good to eat hot. 3 lb. Veal. +2 lb. Pork. VEAL (ROAST FILLET OF). For an 8 lb. fillet, take out the bone and fill up with the following stuffing: ^ lb. of suet, \ lb. of bread-crumbs soaked in milk, a few sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, pepper, and an egg or two; mix all well together. Skewer up the ioint in a round form (larding it with nice fresh bacon is a great improvement) ; cover the veal with a buttered paper ; let it roast very gently ; baste it well with some butter or fat. About half an hour before serving, pour over the joint half a tumbler of wine, with a teaspoonful of flour mixed in it, which makes a nice rich gravy. (Takes three hours in an oven.)V] VENISON—VEGETABLE MARROW STUFFED. VENISON. (My own Recipe.) The “ Duiker” is considered very good, and also the “ Springbok,” which, however, is very rare in the western province of South Africa. The forequarter is generally used for “Buck soup ” ; the saddle (cut like a saddle of mutton) being the best joint for roasting, and must hang for six or seven days. After the outer skin is taken off, there still remains a thin white fleece, which must be taken off before larding the venison. Take a firm piece of fat bacon cut into equal strips, and proceed to lard either with a larding-needle or pointed knife. Venison is much nicer roasted in a flat Dutch baking-pot, with a good piece of butter and a spoonful of good lard or fat. Put the joint on with a little water. I f a saddle, turn it upper side down at first, and an hour after- wards put some wood-coals on the cover of the pot. Having basted the joint well, roast it a nice brown, and half an hour before serving pour over it a tumbler of dark wine and a little vinegar, with a dessertspoonful of flour mixed in them. Stir the gravy well. This gives a nice glaze to the meat, and imparts a very good flavour. If done in an oven, cover the joint with a buttered paper and baste frequently. The “ Steenbok ” and “Grysbok” are very plentiful in some districts, and are very good to eat too. VEGETABLE MARROW STUFFED. (Entree. Mrs. D. Cloete’s Recipe.) Ingredients. 1 lb. Veal. ‘ Pepper, Salt, Parsley, ilb. Ham, or Good Bacon. A lew Sweet Herbs. 2 Eggs. 2 oz. Butter. 2 oz. Bread-crumbs. Mince veal and ham together, pound to a paste in a mortar slightly rubbed with garlic, pass through a coarse sieve ; put back into the mortar, work into the paste the253 VEGETABLE MARROW AS AN IMITATION OF APPLES. [V butter, bread-crumbs, spices, the yolks of one or two eggs, and the flavouring. Cut average-sized vegetable marrows (the small, pretty-shaped ones) into halves, scoop out the seeds, etc., fill with the above mixture. Wrap up each marrow in a piece of buttered paper tied with a string, lay them all closely together in a buttered tin, cover this with a tin plate, and put in the oven. When you think they are done, remove the paper carefully, lay them in a dish, and serve with a nicely-flavoured gravy made with a little stock, thickened with the yolk of an egg, and a glass of wine or a little lemon mixed just before serving. VEGETABLE MARROW AS AN IMITATION OF APPLES. (Cape. Our own Recipe.) Take a large vegetable marrow—the white kind, with lumps all over the outside—cut it in thin slices, after having peeled and taken out the soft pulp and seeds. Proceed to slice it very thinly. Butter an enamelled pot; put layers of this sliced vegetable marrow, and sugar (for one good-sized marrow take a large breakfast-cup of sugar), a tablespoonful of flour or bread-crumbs, ten cloves, a tumbler of wine and vinegar mixed—pour the wine over the last layer of vegetable marrow and sugar— also a pinch of salt. Let the stewpan simmer for two hours, stirring carefully for fear of burning. Very good with roast duck or goose.\257 w. “ WAFELS! (An old Dutch Recipe.) Ingredients. i lb. of Flour. 12 Eggs, i lb. Butter. i quart of Milk. The butter to be beaten to a froth. Mix alternately one egg and a teaspoonful of flour with the butter, then add the milk. Warm the iron well, rub with fat, put the dough in and close, turning the iron first on one side, then on the other, while baking. Serve with sugar. The pans in which wafels are baked are made in a particular shape, to close over the dough. “ WENTEL JEEFTJES.” Take twelve slices of thinly cut stale white bread, butter well, soak in milk (not too much), then whisk up eight eggs, lay it in the egg, then fry in hot lard or fat, as you would fritters. Serve with sugar and cinnamon. This is an old Dutch dish. s261 Y. YEAST {FOR MAKING HOME-MADE BREAD). (Our own Recipe.) Take two quarts of boiling water, an ounce of salt, three cups of meal. Put the salt into a saucepan, pour on it the boiling water, strew on it gradually three cups of meal, then cover closely, putting a cloth between the lid and pot to absorb the steam. Set it over-night in the warmest corner of your stove. At six o’clock next morning stir into it a cup of boiling water; stand the saucepan on some hot ashes, and soon it will begin to ferment. When ready for use it will have a frothy appearance and a disagreeable odour. Pour it into six pounds of meal, mix with warm water, and knead into bread.265 z. “ZOUTE I<OEKIES.”—See Tea Cakes. “ZOUTE KRAKE LING " (SWEET CRACKNELS). (Old Dutch.) Ingredients. i lb. Flour. 3 Eggs, i lb. Sugar. of a spoonful of Cinnamon. A teaspoonful of Potash. • Roll out and make in shapes like the figure 8, and bake on flat pans for half an hour. T