LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden A Hoo 30106023323750S>v 550 870785 London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW33HA Tel: 01 278 4444 Extensions: _ —Buuk nunywmy Lending Library 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5 IIV NO? 7! ....... /..L:,;.' * Av " i feS 79 r ^v. -LAto' / KiDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538566HANDBOOK FOR THE BREAKFAST TABLE. Invieb ant) (Economical Wishes. BY MARY HOOPER, ✓ AUTHOR OF “FOR BETTER FOR WORSE,” “ PAPERS ON COOKERY,” &C., &C. LONDON: GRIFFITH AND FARRAN, SUCCESSORS TO NEWBERY AND HARRIS, CORNER OF ST. PAUL’S CHURCHYARD. MDCCCLXXIII. All rights reserved.LONDON: GILBERT AND RIVINGTON, PRINTERS, st. John’s square. ^|.$2 T870785 f\(jhso)PREFACE. T is altogether needless to tell housekeepers that there is no meal so troublesome to arrange and provide for as breakfast, and that it is equally so whether from the requirements of the family it be early or late. Whilst a great deal of thought is given to ordering dinner, breakfast is left pretty much to the judgment of the cook, and as it is generally, in her opinion, an affair of secondary im- portance, the result is one directly tending to promote all the evils which follow in the wake of indigestion. But if we consider to how large a portion of the community it is of the first necessity that they should leave their homes in the morning physically fortified against the fatigues of an anxious day, it will at once be seen that it is at least of equal importance to pro- vide a nourishing appetitive breakfast as a good dinner- Take, for instance, the case of a busy city man, who swallows in haste a breakfast of the truly national A 24 PREFACE. tyPe—which, although sufficiently expensive, is too often wanting in both the above-mentioned qualities— who rushes off to a day of wear and tear of body and mind, and is only sustained under it until a late hour in the evening by an eating-house sandwich and a glass of some liquid the quality of which he is too busy to criticize. Is it any wonder that such an one has to seek the doctor’s advice for headache, or, in the end, for some malady of incurable character which has been induced by a long course of neglected dietetic rules ? Then there are clerks and other brain-workers who are. compelled during the day so to economize both time and money, that they can give neither the one nor the other to the unsatisfactory dinners of the chop-house, and who must wait until they return home, utterly exhausted, for the too-often badly- prepared evening meal. If men in such circumstances could, before leaving for their business, have a suitable breakfast, how great a boon it would be to them ! and how many lives, now sacrificed to the pressure of the times, might be prolonged if the physical powers were more duly sustained during the early part of the day by a good breakfast. Of course, no cooking can be done without time orPREFACE. 5 trouble, and it is because our French neighbours spare neither in the exercise of the culinary art that they so greatly excel in it. Breakfast with them is never an expensive meal; but it is, as the celebrated chef said of his sauce, “ Prepared with brains.” If, then, thought is taken the day before for the morrow’s breakfast, it may be got up with little trouble and be both suitable and economical. Now the number of dishes used for breakfast is, in the majority of English families, very limited. Bacon and eggs are the staple, the former generally unsatis- factory, being either over or under cured, too salt or too new ; it is besides expensive, a large portion of it running to fat. New-laid eggs, when they can be procured in town, are very costly, they properly, after twenty-four hours, can only be described as fresh. The Cockney mind is not, however, very enlightened on this subject, and the vendors of eggs are persuaded, or at any rate try to persuade the public, that eggs are new-laid until they are “ an apology for pepper.” The British cook has no idea of making these London eggs more palatable by the exercise of a little skill or the addition of some sauce, gravy, or cold meat, generally at hand even in households of very modest pretensions.PREFACE. 6 Kidneys, gradually rising to the price of unap- proachable delicacies, are much in request, though the wonder is they should be, seeing that, dressed as they usually are, they are wasteful and unwholesome to the last degree. When thoroughly done, kidneys are most indigestible, and those who cannot eat them with the gravy well in them should forego them. One kidney dressed as directed in “ Kidneys Sautes ” will go as far as two dressed in the ordinary way. It is an instance, if indeed one were needed, of the economy of well-prepared food. Sausages—one is very unwilling to make allusions to so delicate a subject; but it really is amazing that, after all the revelations respecting them, and the great risk there is of getting diseased meat in so disguised a form, that people can be induced to eat those sold in the shops. If any one is reduced to doing so by sad necessity, there is no more to be said, but one can only pity those who, having the use of their hands and the means to procure a small Kent’s mincing machine —an article saving both time and material, and most useful for a variety of purposes—refrain from making at home a very delicious and suitable breakfast deli- cacy. Some well-tried recipes are given by which sausages can readily be made of a variety of meats,PREFACE. 7 either with or without skins, and they are not so ex- pensive as when bought at good shops. Dried fish, of various kinds, is much used with us; of it can only be said, it may be relishing, but it is neither cheap nor wholesome. Chops and steaks are excellent in their way, but both are expensive; and the former appear too often to be relished when piquant sauces do not go well with tea and coffee. Of the steaks need it be said how often they are tough ? “ Then what are we to have ?” cries the perplexed housewife; “ every thing nice is so expensive, and it is most difficult to provide variety from cheap materials.” To this I submit that, although the price of pro- visions is at the present time enormous, and the general cost of living most serious for small incomes, the chief difficulty does not lie in the expense, but in the want of skill in making the most of things, and also in the want of forethought and management. Take, as an illustration, a loin of mutton—either roasted or cut into chops it is very expensive ; but if you take out the fillet and use for roulades, as directed in the following recipe, or simply cut it into neat cutlets and fry them (it may be done without injury to the upper cut of the joint), and you get dish No. i. For No. 2, cut the meat off nearly level with the chopPREFACE. 8 bones, and the upper portion properly stewed can be used either for Irish stews or mince, or several other dinner dishes. For No. 3, with a sharp knife remove the meat from the bones, divide into cutlets, egg, bread-crumb, season, and fry them. Every bit of the kidney fat and parings from the joint can be used when fresh for family puddings, or, properly melted down, can be used for frying, besides other purposes. Of the bones gravy can be made. Thus used the loin, usually held to be a very expensive joint, is not more so than the leg, and gives much greater variety. Or suppose that very humble dish, sheep’s head, is in question. It no doubt takes time to prepare, and, again to quote the chef, requires to be cooked with other brains than its own—and this is no doubt the reason it so seldom appears on our tables. A very exquisite breakfast dish may be made of the brains, and another of the tongue, whilst the meat of the head, properly cooked and tossed up in onion or parsley sauce, will make a dinner for three persons, the whole costing but eightpence. It would be easy to multiply examples in proof that the difficulty of providing breakfast is that which has been stated, but these may suffice, and it is hoped that the following recipes and remarks will greatly assist housekeepers in providing good economical9 PREFACE. breakfasts for every day. as well as superior dishes for special occasions. Many of the recipes are equally suited to early or late breakfasts, or luncheons, and it is because it is so difficult to select from an ordinary cookery book such dishes as these that this little Handbook for the Breakfast Table has been written. It does not pretend to give directions for every well-known breakfast dish, but rather to supplement these by some novelties, which have also the merit of being as economical as the present price of provisions will allow’. The greater number of the recipes are original, and the form of the dishes, though simple, quite new. All of them have been well tried by the writer, and every effort has been made by her to give the directions clearly, so that they may be understood even by inex- perienced cooks.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. TAGE Eggs IS „ Poached . . . . . . . . 17 ,, sur le Plat . . . . . . . ■ 17 ,, and Bacon . . . . . . . 17 Imitation Omelets . . . . . . . .18 Eggs in Broth or Gravy . . . . . . .18 ,, Hard, in Gravy ....... 18 ,, Cutlets . . . . . . . . -19 „ Scalloped ........ 20 ,, Savoury ......... 20 ,, Scrambled ........ 21 Omelet .......... 20 Plain Omelets . . . . . . . . .21 CHAPTER II. Fish 23 Salmon Steaks ......... 24 Fried Cod . . . . - . . . . .25 Rolled Mackerel ........ 25 ,, Herrings ........ 26 Fresh Haddock ........ 26 Baked Soles ......... 26CONTENTS. I 2 PAGE Fresh Cod’s Roe Rechauffe of Turbot ........ 28 „ of Cod Lobster en Beignets ........ 29 ,, Scalloped CHAPTER III. Roulades de Bceuf ........ 32 ,, of Mutton. . . . . . . .32 Beef Cutlets 33 ' Mutton Cutlets 33 Kidneys Saules ......... 34 Toasted Kidneys Broiled Kidneys 33 Sausages 35 Beef Sausages 36 Veal and Ham Sausages ....... 37 Broiled Chicken 37 Fried Chicken ......... 37 Puree of Mushrooms ....... 38 Pigeons 38 Fried Rabbit 38 Rabbit with Mushrooms 39 Marrow Toast ......... 39 Sweetbreads 39 Sheep’s Brains 40 Ox Brains en Pdte ........ 40 Sheep’s Tongues 41 Calf’s Liver a la Parisienne ...... 42 ,, Liver a la Brochette ...... 42 Pigs Feet 43 Potatoes 43 „ Chips 44 ,, au Gratia 44CONTENTS. 13 PACK CHAPTER IV. Sweetbread Balls . . . . . . . -45 Brain or Sweetbread Cutlets ...... 46 Rechauffe of Mutton ........ 46 Dry Curry of Mutton ....... 46 Dry Hashed Mutton ........ 47 Rissoles .......... 47 Quenelles ......... 47 Fondu .......... 48 Fillets of Turkey ........ 49 Minced Chicken with Egg ...... 49 Tripe en Pdte ......... 50 Cow Heel ......... 50 CHAPTER V. Galantine ........ -52 Brawn .......... 53 Mock Brawn ......... 53 Yorkshire Brawn ........ 54 Pressed Ox Cheek ........ 54 Spiced Beef ......... 55 Rolled Beef ......... 55 Pressed Beef ......... 55 Rolled Tongue......... 56 Glaze 56 Potted Beef ......... 57 ,, Cold Mutton 57 CHAPTER VI. Tea, Plow to make 59 Coffee ,, 60 Cocoa ,, ........ 61CHAPTER I. EGGS. all know the Scotch proverb, “ There goes wisdom to the roasting of eggs,” and surely the experience of most of us on this side of the Border is, that it is generally much wanting in boiling them. One morning we have them barely set or hardly hot through, the next they are, in deference no doubt to our complaint, as hard as they well can be. The cook declares she has boiled the eggs the allotted number of minutes, “just the same as she always do—she can't make it out.” Her powers of observation being limited, probably she cannot. “ Such a simple thing as boiling an egg,” we say in our vexation, “ a child can do it.” Certainly she could, but with no greater success than the cook, unless she attended to the following simple rules :—That the eggs be always covered with water, or if not the under side will be overdone whilst the upper will not be set; that the eggs be not put in until the water is boiling, and that it be kept so, but not, as cooks say, galloping; that they be withdrawn from the water the instanti6 HANDBOOK FOR the allotted time has expired. Four minutes will set a fresh egg, three one kept some time. It is a good plan, if eggs are boiled by the clock, on putting them into the saucepan to say to oneself, on noting the time, “They must boil until,” for instance, “one minute past number three,” or “ one minute to num- ber six,” as the case may be; thus the time for taking up the eggs is impressed on the memory, and if other things engage the attention, this is important. Egg- glasses are by no means infallible guides; they get out of order in some mysterious manner; it is far better to go by the clock. Some people think that cooking an egg in hot water, without allowing it to reach the boiling point, makes it lighter for invalids. As the yolk only should be eaten when the stomach is very delicate, this slow process is not necessary. Lightly boiling will make the egg more palatable, and, besides, the raw look of the white when otherwise cooked is apt to disgust. The eggs of some kind of fowls, and those which have been preserved, have often such thin shells that they are with difficulty kept from bursting in boiling. It will generally be found that this will be prevented by putting the eggs in a sauce- pan of cold water over a brisk fire, and when they boil taking them up, or, if required very well done, allow- ing them to continue boiling for one minute. This manner of cooking eggs, however, demands the most “wisdom,” as the time in which they are coming to the boiling point must vary, and, of course, they will be cooked before they reach it if the process proceeds slowly.THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 17 POACHED EGGS On toast are sometimes relished, though the flavour of the egg is much impaired by this method of cook- ing. Put a pinch of salt into a small stewpan with half a pint of water, and when it boils put in the egg, previously broken into a teacup. Let it boil until set, then take it up with a fish-slice and put it on the toast. Some people put a teaspoonful of vinegar into the poaching water; it makes the white very trans- parent. EGGS SUR LE PLAT. A far better and easier way of cooking eggs without their shells than poaching, is to melt a little butter, bacon-fat, or oil, in a tin dish. Break the eggs into .t, and set the dish on the range. The cooking should not proceed too rapidly, or the eggs will not eat so delicate as they should. When done, they can easily be transferred to another dish, but it is best to send them to table on that in which they have been cooked. An earthenware dish or plate will answer as well as a tin, only the eggs take longer to cook. EGGS AND BACON. A very relishing breakfast dish may be made by breaking eggs into a dish, and placing it on a hanger before the fire, then toasting over it slices of streaked bacon, as fat as possible, allowing all the drippings to fall on the eggs. By the time the bacon has been BHANDBOOK FOR iS slowly cooked the eggs also will be done. Serve with or without the' bacon, and if too rich pour away the fat which surrounds the eggs. Another way is to toast slices of nice light bread or roll, and lay it on a dish before the fire, breaking the eggs on to the toast, and allowing the drippings from rashers of bacon to fall on both. IMITATION OMELET. A nice little dish may be prepared by beating up an egg with a spoonful of milk or cream, a pinch of pepper and salt, and letting it set in the oven on a plate well greased with butter or bacon fat. The egg should only be lightly set, and it is an excellent imita- tion of omelet. EGGS IN BROTH OR GRAVY. Put a few spoonfuls of either quite boiling into a tart-dish, break in the eggs, lightly pepper and salt, and then strew very fine raspings over them, set in a quick oven, and bake for five minutes, when the eggs will be set. Serve either with sippits of toast, or bread fried in butter until a light brown. Butter sauce with any flavouring, catsup, anchovy, or onion, may be used if preferred to gravy. A layer of minced meat may be placed at the bottom of the dish, or a slice of French roll. HARD EGGS IN GRAVY. Eggs which have been long boiled are generallyTHE BREAKFAST-TABLE. r9 considered indigestible, yet they convey more nourish- ment in this than any other form, and may sometimes be used with advantage. They should in the first instance be boiled as lightly as consistent with re- moving the shells. Three to four minutes will be sufficient. As soon as you take up the egg plunge it into cold water, which will enable you immediately to take off the shell without at all breaking the white. Have ready in a saucepan sufficient nicely-seasoned broth to cover the eggs. Let them simmer together for five minutes, then take the eggs from the broth, and serve them whole on a piece of toast well mois- tened with the broth; or, if preferred, a slice of French roll buttered may be substituted. White sauce, made from milk and flour, of the consistency of good cream, nicely seasoned, and flavoured with onion, may be used instead of broth if preferred. Eggs which have been left from breakfast may be used up in this way with advantage. Hard eggs may also be sliced and warmed in gravy. EGG CUTLETS. These are very good, and if carefully cooked need not be too rich. Cut hard-boiled eggs into thick slices, dip them in the yolk of an egg well beaten, and then in finely-sifted bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt and a pinch of dried parsley. Have a little butter in the frying-pan ; let the eggs cook two minutes on one side, turn them on the other and finish. When taken from the frying-pan lay them B 220 HANDBOOK FOR before the fire on white paper to absorb the grease. Serve a little thickened gravy around them. SCALLOPED EGGS. Take a cupful of finely-sifted bread-crumbs, moisten them with a little cold milk, cream, or gravy, and season nicely with pepper and salt Put a thin layer of the moistened crumbs on a lightly-buttered dish, cut two hard eggs into slices and dip each piece in very thick well-seasoned white sauce, or in good gravy made thick enough to adhere to the eggs.' Having arranged the slices of egg neatly on the layer of moistened bread-crumbs, cover them with another layer of it, and on the top strew thickly some pale gold-coloured raspings. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. If potatoes are liked they make a nice substitute for bread-crumbs. Take some mashed potatoes, add to them a spoonful of cream or gravy, and proceed as with bread-crumbs—serve gravy with this dish. SAVOURY EGGS. Chop up a little cold bacon in dice, mix with it chopped parsley and season with pepper, put it in a shallow tart-dish, beat up two eggs with a little salt, a tablcspoonful of milk, cream, or gravy, and pour over the bacon. Bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are set. If liked, a well-boiled onion may be mixed with the bacon.THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 21 SCRAMBLED EGGS. Melt a small piece of butter the size of a nut in a stewpan, break into it two eggs, with a spoonful of milk or gravy, and pepper and salt, stir round quickly until the eggs begin to thicken, keep the yolks whole as long as you can. When finished, pour on to a buttered toast, to which may be added a little essence of anchovy, and serve. OMELET. Either from the admitted fact that English cooks cannot prepare an omelet properly, or for some cause which Lord Dundreary would have put into his cele- brated category as “ impossible to find out,” it is cer- tain that eggs, in the shape of omelets, are not popular in this country. The two difficulties which beset the frying of an omelet appear to be these—either it is apt to be overdone and leather-like, or so raw on the inner side as to be unpleasant to persons of delicate appetite. It is with regret we are compelled to say that the only known remedies for these difficulties cannot be given in a recipe, for they are intelligence on the part of the cook and practice. The following directions, however, are simple, and there should be no difficulty in preparing an eatable omelet by them :— PLAIN OMELET. Put two ounces of butter into an omelet-pan, when22 HANDBOOK FOR THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. it boils pour into it two or three eggs well beaten with a little pepper and salt and a spoonful of milk or cream. Stir the omelet after it is poured into the pan, and as it sets and becomes a nice light brown colour on the under side, roll it over in an oval shape, turn it on to a dish and serve immediately. This receipt is recommended for its great simplicity. Omelets may be made in infinite variety, either by pouring round those which are plainly made any nice sauce or gravy, or by introducing into the eggs before frying chopped parsley and other herbs, finely-minced shalot, grated ham, minced kidney, or oysters cut into quarters, or the remains of any delicate dish, such as sweetbreads, brains, chicken, or game, or even stewed mushrooms, of course, chopped fine. In this latter case the liquor from the mushrooms should be poured round the omelet just as sent to table. PCHAPTER II. FISH. T has been before remarked that dried fish is neither an economical or nutritious article of diet, and it can only be admitted as an occasional relish. Manycooks make dried fish, haddocks, and smoked herrings especially, still more indigestible by their method of cooking, and, under the idea that water will extract the flavour of the fish, either broil or toast them. The proper way to cook dried salmon, had- dock, or herring, is to pour boiling water over them in a basin, cover it close with a plate, and let the fish stand five minutes. When taken up it should be placed on a very hot dish before the fire and rubbed over with a little fresh butter. If the fish, however, is thick, it may be placed in the frying-pan by the side of the fire, covered over with a plate, or in the fish- kettle, and allowed to stand—it must never simmer— from five to ten minutes. Bloaters should not be split open—of course care must be taken to thoroughly24 HANDBOOK FOR cleanse them—they should be placed over a slow fire on the gridiron, and when done on one side turned to the other. It is surprising that, as a rule, fresh fish appears so seldom at our breakfast tables. If bought over night it may by some simple devices be kept perfectly good until the next day, and as a rule fish is to be obtained in the evening at very reasonable prices. In hot weather a teaspoonful of vinegar, or even less, poured on a dish, and then the fish—of any kind—passed through it on both sides, keeps it per- fectly, and rather adds to than impairs the flavour. Or a very slight sprinkling of pepper and salt will have the same effect, but in this case the fish should be well cleaned and hung up in a cool place. If it is desired to fry fish after either of these processes, it is only necessary to wipe it in a dry cloth. The remains of almost any fish left from dinner can be utilized for breakfast, and two nice rechauffes are given in the recipes. That for turbot will be found particularly good. SALMON STEAKS. Fishmongers generally cut them too thick—they should not be more than half an inch thick. Dip the steak in dissolved butter, lightly sprinkle with pepper and salt, and wrap it up in greased writing- paper, carefully folded, so that the butter cannot run out. Place it on the gridiron over a moderate fire; it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, and mustTHE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 25 often be turned. Put a little dissolved butter on a hot dish and place the fish on it. FRIED COD. Get slices of cod, about half an inch thick, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and, if convenient, let them lie for an hour or two. Then dip them in yolk of egg and raspings, seasoned with salt, a pinch of dried parsley, very finely sifted, and a shake of black pepper. Fry quickly in plenty of fat. Cod’s head cleverly fried is esteemed a great delicacy, and a fine one may generally be had at a very small cost, and will furnish a breakfast for two persons. ROLLED MACKEREL. Clean the fish, always being careful that the brown substance adhering somewhat closely to the back-bone near the head, and which causes the bitterness often so unpleasant in this fish, is removed. Take off the head, hold the fish in the left hand, and with the thumb and finger of the right press the back-bone to loosen it, then lay it flat on the board and remove the bone, which will come out whole, leaving none behind. Split the fish in half, lay on each piece half the roe (it should be soft), sprinkle over it equally and lightly pepper and salt, and flour, then roll up each piece tightly, tail outwards, and put them in a deep baking-dish, setting them close to- gether, by which means they will keep rolled until ’BIG & ft r\LHANDBOOK FOR 26 cooked. Two fish make a very convenient dish in this manner:—Pour over them a pickle made of vinegar and a fourth part of water, pepper and salt, cover them with a plate, and set to bake in a slow oven for two hours. When done, dish up the fish carefully, strain the sauce over them, and garnish with fennel. They are excellent eaten cold; should be turned in the liquor every day, and they will keep a week. ROLLED HERRINGS May be either cooked in exactly the same manner as mackerel, or when rolled, floured, and seasoned, they can be fried, and then make an elegant dish. FRESH HADDOCK. Cut the fish open, take out the bone in the same manner as directed for mackerel, lightly pepper and salt it, and hang up for twelve hours in as airy a place as you can command. When about to cook the fish, dissolve some butter and brush it thickly over the haddock. Lay it with the skin downwards on the gridiron, and keep it over a slow fire for twenty minutes, by which time it should be cooked. Put a little more butter over the fish, and when melted serve it very hot. After being prepared as directed, the haddock may be fried in butter if more con- venient than broiling it. BAKED SOLES. Scrape, not skin them. Dip them in a little dis-THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 27 solved butter; then strew on them some finely-sifted and well-seasoned bread-crumbs (or raspings are better) and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Any sauce may accompany them, but they are best eaten plain. Small soles, called by fishmongers “slips,’' are excellent cooked in this manner, and are very cheap. FRESH COD’S ROE. This is a very cheap, and, if well prepared, an ex- cellent dish. Get the roe the day before it is wanted. Boil it in salt and water until perfectly firm. When cold, slice it into cutlets a quarter of an inch thick, and lay them in a pickle composed of a pinch of saltpetre and of basalt, a teaspoonful of common salt, a pinch of pepper, ground cloves, nutmegs, and allspice, the whole mixed with two teaspoonfuls of vinegar. Let the cutlets remain in this until the next day, turning them occasionally. A little before cook- ing, drain and dry them, brush them over with egg, and dip them in finely-sifted bread-crumbs, well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Fry the cutlets in butter until a nice brown, and when about to serve, pour round them a sauce made as follows :—Take a few spoonfuls of good gravy, add a few drops of essence of anchovy, thicken it with flour, chop up a tablespoonful of capers, and boil them for a minute in the gravy. After taking it from the fire, stir in a spoonful of plain or any good, pickling vinegar.28 HANDBOOK FOR RECHAUFFE OF TURBOT. Cut the pieces neatly from the bone, lightly pepper, salt, and flour them. Have a little butter in the frying-pan, and let the fish cook gently, until warm through and a nice brown; or the pieces may be brushed over with yolk of eggs, crumbed lightly with seasoned raspings, and then fried quickly in a little butter. RECHAUFF& OF COD. Take the fish from the bones, making sure none . are left in it. Make a sauce by boiling the bones and skin in broth, and afterwards reducing it to a very small quantity by boiling rapidly without the lid of the stewpan; use to this an equal quantity of cream or milk, flavour nicely with Burgess’s essence of anchovy, Cayenne pepper, and salt; then make it very thick with equal quantities of corn flour and flour. Stir the fish into this sauce whilst hot. Spread a layer of finely-sifted bread-crumbs on a buttered dish. Lay the fish on this, then cover over thoroughly with another layer of crumbs, put a little dissolved butter over it, and bake a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. If you have any oyster or lobster sauce left it will answer well to mix with the fish, instead of making fresh, only it must be very thick, as when the dish goes to table it ought not to be moist. Turbot, or indeed almost any fi$h, is good re-warmed in this way, and the addition of any shell-fish is always an im- provement.29 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. LOBSTER EN BEIGNETS. Preserved lobster answers very well for these. Bray and Hayes’, imported by Crosse and Blackwell, is the best. Divide the lobster into as nice pieces as you can—the smaller answers well for sauce or scal- lopping—and dip each into a good frying batter, as directed for ox brains, but adding to it a little Cayenne pepper and a few drops of Burgess’s essence of an- chovies. Fry the beigncts quickly in oil, or good fat, and serve hot. SCALLOPED LOBSTER. Take either fresh or preserved lobster, and coat it well with a sauce made like melted butter, with milk, equal proportions of corn-flour and flour, and a good quantity of butter, and made very tasty with essence of anchovies and Cayenne pepper. The sauce must be very thick, or it will make the scallop eat soddened. Spread a layer of sifted bread-crumbs on a tin or earthenware dish, previously rubbed with butter, then put in the lobster, then another layer of crumbs, with a few sifted raspings on the top, and bake as quickly as possible. Preserved oysters may be scalloped in this manner.CHAPTER III. commencing this chapter it will be as well to make some observations respecting the fillet of beef, the merits of which are greatly, as a rule, underrated in England, whilst in France it is esteemed so highly that the price is more than double that of any other prime part of beef. The chief objection which is made to fillet is that it is tasteless; if it is, it is the fault of the cook. Nothing can be more easily remedied than this assumed defect. Whether you have only a slice of what the butcher calls “ fillet steak,” or delicately cut morsels for cutlets or roulades, the treatment is the same. If to be used for a breakfast dish, prepare your meat overnight by lightly sprinkling with pepper and salt, or, still better, laying it in a marinade composed of a teaspoonful of the best salad oil, and half this quantity of vinegar. Properly speaking, the fillet of beef includes the whole under-cut of the sirloin and rump, but as to obtain this you must buy joints, it is, except in large establishments, out of the question. Buy, there- fore, the under-cut of the rump; it will weigh fromHANDBOOK FOR THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 31 three to four pounds. It can be used in a variety of ways. A portion slightly rubbed with vinegar, then sprinkled with pepper and salt, and hung in a cool place for a day, makes an excellent roast. From the remainder you can have roulades and cutlets, or the materials for pie or mince. If charged as fillet usually is, at steak price, it ought to be cut free from skirt, and with but little suet. It will be observed that butter is directed for frying little dishes. This may seem an extravagance, but as, if properly employed, a very little will serve, it need not be so. The great cooks say use enough butter to cover whatever you are frying, and it is all very well if you can afford it, or happen to live where butter is cheap; but, for the most part, if the pan be no larger than necessary, and the article frying be turned once or twice, it is surprising with how small a piece you may manage. Of course any other kind of fat may be substituted, and if care is taken that whatever is used is kept to boiling point, the flavour of the dish will not be seriously impaired. For frying pate, or light batter, the fat of the stock- pot is excellent. A good mixture is made by melting beef suet, and adding to it an equal quantity of lard. It is almost useless to say oil is good for most frying purposes, because that generally attainable has so strong and disagreeable a flavour it is no wonder a prejudice exists against it. Like most other things, however, excellent oil is to be obtained in London by those who will take the trouble to seek it, and who can afford to pay for it.3 2 HANDBOOK FOR ROULADES DE BOEUF. To make these a fillet of beef must be procured. One of the most convenient ways is to remove the fillet or under-cut of the sirloin before roasting. The under-cut of the rump, known as fillet steak, is however equally suitable for the purpose. There need be no waste in its use, as all the trimmings can be made into pies or stews for the second table. Cut as many slices as you require roulades, as thin as possible, lay one at a time flat on the board, cover it with a very thin slice—not quite so large as the beef— of well-cooked bacon, then roll it up very tightly, egg it over, roll it in finely-sifted bread-crumbs, very highly seasoned with pepper and salt, then put it on a skewer in such a manner as it will keep its shape nicely. As the remainder are prepared place them on the skewer, not too close together; four will be suffi- cient to place on each skewer. Put into the frying- pan a small slice of butter, and when it boils put in the ro7ilades, and let them cook gently on one side for ten minutes, when they should be crisp and brown, then turn them on the other side and finish. A very little concentrated gravy thickened may be poured round the dish immediately before serving, or they may be sent up without it. The remains of a roasted fillet of beef or of sirloin are excellent used for roulades. ROULADES OF MUTTON. Remove the fillet from a fine loin of mutton, trim33 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. away every particle of skin, fat, or gristle ; cut it into slices lengthways as thin as possible, and then into neat pieces; make the roulades in the same manner as those of fillet of beef. They will take rather longer to cook. BEEF CUTLETS. Take the fillet as directed for roulades, trim away every particle of skin and fat, leaving only the delicate fillet, which cut into slices the third of an inch thick, lightly pepper and salt them and set them aside on a plate for two hours or more. Broil the cutlets slowly from five to seven minutes ; they should be somewhat underdone. The moment before serving place on each a small piece of the following mixture :—Soften a small piece of butter on a plate, put a few drops of essence of an- chovy, a pinch of salt and a grain of Cayenne pepper, and make quite stiff with chopped parsley, and if you like add a morsel of finely-minced shalot. Serve very hot and garnish with fried potatoes. MUTTON CUTLETS. It is often convenient to dress the loin chops for one or two persons as follows:—Trim away the fat, cut the meat neatly from the bones and divide each chop info two, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in a little butter. Take the bones with an onion and make them into gravy, thicken this either with a cooked potato rubbed through a sieve, a little tomato sauce, or flour. cHANDBOOK FOR 34 To egg-crumb delicate dishes, and to make them savoury, the bread-crumbs should be finely sifted and mixed with an equal quantity of fine light raspings, then they should be highly seasoned with pepper and salt. KIDNEYS SAUTES. Choose fine large ones, skin, and cut the round way into thin slices, each kidney should give from ten to twelve. Have ready a tablespoonful of flour highly seasoned with pepper and salt, and well mixed together, dip the pieces of kidney in it, fry them gently for a minute, then turn and let them fry on the other side for half a minute. Great care must be taken neither to cook them too fast nor two much, as the kidney is thus rendered both indigestible and tasteless. Have ready a little plain gravy, and when you have removed the kidney from the pan, shake into it enough flour to make the gravy thick, and having stirred it over the fire pour it on the kidneys, serving it immediately and very hot. When bacon is not objected to it is a great improvement to fry some very thin pieces about an inch square in a little butter, and then to fry the kidneys in the fat. The bacon must not be burned, but cooked very gently, so as neither to harden nor shrivel it. TOASTED KIDNEYS. Cut some thin slices of rather fat streaked bacon and lay them on a plate before the fire, or toast them partially until the fat begins to run, then lay the35 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. kidneys, skinned and split open, on the plate, and finish toasting the bacon over them. Hold the kidneys on the toasting-fork so that not a drop of their gravy falls on the edge of the plate to dry up and be wasted, it should all run into the bacon-fat. When the gravy ceases to run freely the kidney is done enough. It is impossible to cook kidneys thoroughly if they are to be either digestible or pala- table, and it should be taken as a rule that they are to be served rather underdone. When the kidneys are cooked sprinkle them over with pepper and salt, and serve them immediately on a very hot dish. BROILED KIDNEYS. These are quite an epicure’s dish, and care must be taken to cook them slowly. Having skinned the kidneys they must not be split or cut, dip them for a moment in boiling fat, place them on the gridiron over a slow fire, turning them every minute. They will take ten minutes to cook, and will be done as soon as the gravy begins to run. Place them on a hot dish merely rubbed over with butter, salt and pepper them rather highly. It must be understood that kidneys thus cooked ought to be underdone, and that when they are cut at table the gravy should run from them freely and in abundance. SAUSAGES. There is no more delicious dish for breakfast than a well-made, well-cooked sausage. That there are c 236 HANDBOOK FOR various objections to those sold in shops is too well known. The following receipt is very simple, and those who possess a small mincing machine can readily prepare sausages by it. To each pound of fat pork cut into thin strips, perfectly free from skin and gristle, put one ounce and a half of finely-sifted bread-crumbs, one large teaspoonful of salt, one of black pepper, and one of dried and sifted sage, mix all this seasoning thoroughly with the crumbs, pour over the meat a small teacupful of water or gravy made from the trimmings of the meat, sprinkle the seasoning equally over it, mix it altogether with the hands and pass it through the machine. If your butcher does not supply you with skins, you can procure them in tins at most of the shops where the machines are sold. Let them soak in several waters and thoroughly wash them. It is a good plan to inflate the skin and pass some lukewarm water through it before filling it, as you both insure cleanliness and clear away the salt, which is important, as the preserved skins often make the sausages too salt. To cook them either in balls or skins, put a small piece of butter in the frying-pan and let them fry gently for twenty minutes. Sausages should not be pricked, it lets out all the gravy, and if they are not made too large, or fried too fast, they will not burst. BEEF SAUSAGES. The coarser parts of beef will answer for these, but the most economical and best part is good37 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. steak. To each pound of lean add a quarter of a pound of suet and two ounces of bread-crumbs, season and finish as pork sausages, but instead of sage use sweet herbs. VEAL AND HAM SAUSAGES. To each pound of veal put half a pound of ham in equal quantities of fat and lean, half a teaspoonful of salt, and one of white pepper, slightly moistened with water or gravy made from the veal and ham trimmings, and proceed as for pork sausages. BROILED CHICKEN. For this purpose a chicken should be small and young, if otherwise it must be parboiled before broiling. Split the chicken in half and brush over with dissolved butter, and during the cooking occasionally baste with it. Place the chicken, bones to the fire, on the grid- iron, and let it remain slowly cooking for twenty minutes, then turn the meat side to the fire, taking care it does not stick to the gridiron, or the skin burn in the least, let it remain ten minutes, then again turn and baste it cleverly with a bit of butter tied in muslin, as thus you can put it equally on the chicken without waste, lightly pepper and salt it, and when it has remained another five minutes (in all thirty-five minutes), serve it very hot. FRIED CHICKEN. Prepare it as for boiling, put two ounces ot butter38 HANDBOOK FOR into a stewpan, and when it boils put in the chicken, let it fry until a delicate brown, then sprinkle it with pepper and salt, put on the lid of the stewpan and let it stand at a moderate heat until thoroughly done, as it should be in about half an hour. It is very con- venient to cook the legs only of chickens in this way, or by broiling, and they eat better than any other part of the fowl, whilst the white meat serves best for other dishes. If appearance is not considered, a fowl can as well be roasted or boiled without as with the legs, and it is a great economy to use them for a separate dish. PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. Chop up some fresh mushrooms, simmer them in a little milk or broth for five minutes, then add the crumb of a roll, stir over the fire until the moisture is absorbed, then add a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt, and rub through a wire or other strainer, put it back into the stewpan and let it get hot before serving. If the puree should be too stiff, add a little cream in rubbing it through the strainer. Serve this with fried chicken. PIGEONS. Split them up the back and flatten out, but do not divide, brush them over with dissolved butter, and cook as directed for broiled chicken. FRIED RABBIT. Choose a young one, cut it into small joints, and39 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. fry slowly in butter until a nice brown. When done, pour over it the following sauce :—Dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add pepper, salt, and a little scalded and chopped parsley, let it get hot, but on no account allow it to boil. RABBIT WITH MUSHROOMS. Take all the meat lengthways from the back of a fat Ostend rabbit, and cut it into nice square pieces. Fry them in butter until a nice brown, sprinkle over with pepper and salt. Dish them and place on each piece a well stewed, mushroom, pouring round the dish the gravy from them, or a little mushroom catsup diluted with thin white sauce may be substi- tuted. The portions of rabbit not used for this dish will answer well for a .pie or fricassee. MARROW TOAST. Get a marrowbone well broken up by the butcher. Take out the marrow in as large pieces as possible, and put them into a stewpan with a little boiling water nicely salted. Let the marrow boil for a minute, then strain it through a fine strainer. Have ready a thin toast, place the marrow on it before the fire and let it remain until cooked, which will be in about five minutes. Sprinkle over it a little pepper and salt, and a small teaspoonful of parsley chopped very fine. Serve very hot. SWEETBREADS Of veal are costly, and, besides, often very difficultHANDBOOK FOR 40 to procure. Lambs’ sweetbreads, when in season, are very good, and a nice dish may be had at a trifling cost. Trim the sweetbreads carefully and wash them in warm water. Put them into a stewpan in some highly-seasoned white stock, boil them for a quarter of an hour, then take them up, dip them in egg, and then in bread-crumbs, nicely seasoned, and fry in butter a nice light brown. Serve either with or without gravy, made from some of the liquor in which the sweetbreads were boiled. SHEEP’S BRAINS Are an excellent substitute for sweetbreads, and, if properly cooked, make an imitation that will deceive many persons. At all seasons they are to be had at small cost, especially so if it is convenient to buy the whole head for broth, &c. Having carefully washed the brains, boil them fast so as to harden them without breaking them, in well-seasoned gravy. When done, take them up, and allow them to remain till quite cold. Then divide each lobe down the middle, and dip each piece in egg and afterwards in seasoned bread-crumbs. Fry and serve as directed for sweet- breads. OX BRAINS EN PATE. Prepare the brains as directed in the foregoing, only as they are firmer they will but require to be simmered in very highly-flavoured gravy for a quarter of an hour. If no gravy is at hand, boil an onion inTHE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 41 water with a clove, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter. When the brain is cold, cut it into slices as thin as possible, dip each piece in the following batter and fry in good fat, taking great care to have it boiling when you drop in the pcite :■—Mix two large table- spoonfuls of flour with four of water, a tablespoonful of dissolved butter or oil, the yolk of an egg and a pinch of salt and pepper. Let it stand for two hours. When ready to use beat the white of the egg to a strong froth, and mix with the batter. The quantity given is sufficient for half an ox brain. This is a very delicate, delicious, and inexpensive dish, and is suffi- cient for three persons. SHEEP’S TONGUES. Strew salt over the tongues and let them lie until the next day, then drain off all that has run from them and put them in the following pickle :—A tablespoonful of salt, half a one of basalt, a teaspoonful of saltpetre, a pinch of allspice and black pepper. Two days after put a teaspoonful of sugar. This quantity will be enough for two or three tongues. Four or five days will salt them. Boil them gently until perfectly tender, and when they are skinned, if to be eaten hot, split them down the middle, dip them in dissolved butter and then in raspings, and let them brown nicely on the gridiron. If to be served up cold, glaze them. Pig’s tongues are excellent cooked in this manner.42 HANDBOOK FOR CALF’S LIVER A LA PARISIENNE. Care must be taken to choose the liver of a fine calf, and the fresher the better. Get about a pound of the thickest part of the liver, cut it into slices half an inch thick, lay neatly in a stewpan in which half an ounce of butter has been dissolved, sprinkle pepper and salt over the upper side. Shave two ounces of fat bacon as fine as possible, chop a teaspoonful of parsley and a small shalot very fine, and spread them evenly over the liver. Cover the stewpan closely, and set it in a heat so moderate that it will draw out all the juices without simmering—the least approach to this hardens the liver, which ought,’ when finished, to be in such delicate perfection as almost to melt in the mouth. If the range is too hot, set the stewpan on an iron stand. When the liver has thus stood for an hour and a half, it should be done, take it up, put it in a hot-water dish, cover closely whilst you boil up the bacon in the liquor in which it has been cooked, then pour it over and serve immediately. This is a very delicious dish, and so light and digestible it may even be given to invalids. CALF’S LIVER A LA BROCHETTE. Cut some slices of liver a quarter of an inch thick, then divide them into pieces an inch square, cut some fat bacon into pieces of the same size, and place on a skewer, first a piece of liver then one of bacon, and so on till the skewer is full. Dissolve a little butter,43 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. mix pepper and salt with it, and then pass the liver and bacon through it on all' sides. Cook slowly in the Dutch-oven. When done, carefully draw out the skewer so as to leave the liver in the form in which it has cooked, pour the gravy which has run from it over, and serve very hot. PIG’S FEET. Boil them very gently for six or eight hours, accord- ing to size, in water, with an onion, bay-leaf, and clove. When done, allow them to get cold. Divide each down the middle, dip them in dissolved butter, and then in sifted bread-crumbs. Put them on the gridiron over a slow fire, and let them cook until hot through, and the crumbs nicely browned. POTATOES. Fried potatoes of any kind are excellent, either as a garnish for breakfast dishes or as an accompani- ment. Many persons find chips too dry, and for these they should be cut rather thicker. One of the difficulties in frying potatoes crisp and brown will be overcome if they are, after being cut into slices, freed from moisture by being laid for some time in a cloth. A wire frying-basket is very useful for frying potatoes and other things which require to be well simmered in boiling fat. “ Pot-top ” is the best for frying potatoes. Fine oil is also good, or a mixture of lard and melted suet, but lard alone is apt to soften.44 HANDBOOK FOR THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. POTATO CHIPS. Peel fine potatoes and cut them into thin slices, let them lie for a time in a dry cloth, then fry them in boiling fat and serve as soon as cooked. Peel some potatoes and cut them into long strips almost half an inch thick. Dry them in a cloth, dip them in egg, and then in finely-sifted raspings, with dried parsley, pepper and salt. Put them in the frying-basket in plenty of boiling fat, and fry until perfectly done. POTATOES AU GRATIN.CHAPTER IV. HE great cold-mutton question is one that has so long been in agitation that it ought to be settled by this time. Yet we are afraid that so long as the idea prevails that a leg of mutton is the cheapest of all dishes, it will remain very far from a satisfactory solution. It does not come within the scope of this handbook to suggest dishes for other than the breakfast-table, and therefore recipes for varying the “five cold days” cannot be given. But for potted meat, mince to be eaten with eggs, rissoles, or a dry hash or curry, nothing can be more suitable for making a change from the everlasting bacon and eggs of the national breakfast. Rechauffes of mutton are within the reach of most housewives, and only a moderate degree of skill and care is required in their preparation. The recipes for these will no doubt therefore prove acceptable. SWEETBREAD BALLS. Mince any cooked sweetbread, roll it up with halfHANDBOOK FOR 46 the quantity of bread-crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and, if liked, a very small piece of shalot minced as finely as possible. Mix these to- gether with sufficient egg to bind them, then roll them into balls, dip them in yolk of egg, and dust over with raspings, and fry them in a little butter. Put a little brown gravy on a dish, and place the balls on it. BRAIN OR SWEETBREAD CUTLETS. Cut the remains of any brains or sweetbreads into pieces about the size of half-a-crown, egg them over, and dip them in finely-sifted raspings, pepper, salt, and a pinch of dried parsley as fine as dust. Fry them in a little butter, and then place them round the edge of a dish, with a piece of fried bread of equal size between each. In the centre put a little good gravy made very thick. RECHAUFFEE OF MUTTON. Cut neat slices from a leg, either roast or boiled, dip them in yolk of egg, and then in fine light raspings, well seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry first on one side and then on the other in a little butter. Serve with a little good gravy in the dish, and garnish with fried potatoes. DRY CURRY OF MUTTON. Cut the cold meat into dice, fry an onion in a little butter until brown, then mix the meat with it, and fry’the breakfast-table. 47 together. When it is hot through, sprinkle over a little curry powder, pepper, and salt, stir well together, and pour over all a spoonful of cream or milk, and, having turned it about until dry, serve. DRY HASHED MUTTON. Chop up some cold potatoes quite small, fry them in a little fat until hot through, then mix them with an equal quantity of cold mutton cut into dice, let them cook together until the meat is hot through, season nicely with pepper and salt, and serve. RISSOLES. Chop the meat very fine, quite free from all skin and gristle, put to it about a fourth of its weight in bread-crumbs, boil an onion until tender enough to pulp, add this, with pepper, salt, and a few drops of essence of anchovy, and egg enough to make the mass into spoon-shaped balls. A little flour may be added if the meat is fat, or the balls do not seem to bind sufficiently. Put a bit of butter—an ounce will fry a good many—into a pan, fry the rissoles very gently on one side, and when half done turn them on to the other and finish. Serve with gravy made from the trimmings of the meat with the water the onions were boiled in, thicken it, and, if liked, add a little piquant sauce or vinegar. QUENELLES Are a light, nourishing food, but are not often made48 HANDBOOK FOR on account of the trouble and expense. With manage- ment, neither need be great, and the following receipt will be found cheap and simple. No doubt quenelles are finer made in more elaborate form, with calf’s udder and the white meat of game and poultry freshly pounded, but when the object is merely to provide a tasty inexpensive little dish our receipt will answer well. Take five tablespoonfuls of sifted bread- crumbs, moisten them with cream or new milk, and before using drain away as much of it as you can. Thoroughly incorporate two tablespoonfuls of potted meat, and a quarter, of an ounce of fresh butter, with the bread, and then mix this with a small well-beaten egg into a paste. Flour your hands and roll the quenelles into egg-shaped balls. Have a stewpan with boiling broth, and poach the quenelles in it. The time they will take depends on the size, but ten minutes is generally sufficient for the largest. The above mixture is nice baked in small cups. With these a gravy should be served. FONDU. Soak the crumb of a French roll, or about the same quantity of other light bread, in a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, beat it up smooth, and add to it a good slice of any cold meat minced very fine, with a little cold bacon if convenient, an onion boiled to a pulp, and season nicely with pepper and salt. When about to bake it beat up one egg—two, if you wish the fondu very light—and mix all well together and pourTHE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 49 it into a hot pie-dish in. which a little butter or bacon- fat has been melted. It will take about twenty minutes to bake in a hot oven. Serve with good gravy in a boat. Sausage meat may be substituted for cooked meat, in which case a little more time must be given to bake the fondu. FILLETS OF TURKEY. Cut the meat from the bones of dressed turkeys’ legs, cutletwise, in slices about an inch thick. Work into a paste a teaspoonful of chutney, two of dis- solved butter, one of anchovy, a grain of Cayenne pepper and a pinch of salt. Spread this over the slices of turkey, then wrap each in a cover of white buttered paper, and place them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Turn them frequently, so that the paper does not scorch, and in about a quarter of an hour they will be done. Take them out of the papers and serve on a hot dish. MINCED CHICKEN WITH EGG. Cut up all the meat of a cooked chicken into neat little squares. Put on the bones with a little water and an onion, and let them boil for an hour. Take the fat off this gravy and put in the chicken, let it simmer gently until perfectly tender, then put in enough flour mixed with milk to thicken it, simmer up, and having seasoned nicely, stir in a teaspoonful of chutney. Pour this out of the stewpan into a dish, D50 HANDBOOK FOR THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. break on the top of the mince an egg to each person, strew over them a dust of fine raspings, pepper, and salt, put in the oven until the eggs are set, not hard, and serve with fried croutons round the dish. TRIPE EN PATE. Tripe that has been stewed until very tender, with plenty of onions and well seasoned, is best for this dish. Cut the tripe into pieces about an inch and a half square, dip each into a batter made like that for ox brains, and fry. COW HEEL. Stew it after it comes from the shop, with plenty of onions, pepper, and salt, until perfectly tender. Cut the meat into neatly-shaped pieces, egg, bread-crumb, and fry them. Take care the bread-crumbs are well seasoned. Tomato sauce, or a little strong gravy, should be served with this dish.CHAPTER V. HERE is no doubt that the most elegant form Qf presenting pressed meat at breakfast is that of a galantine ; yet it is seldom made in any but large kitchens, as it is considered both a troublesome and expensive dish. It is so, if made of veal or poultry, and if the art of using up such material as is at hand is not understood. Excellent galantines may be made by using up the remains of ham, pieces of bacon and tongue, any cold meat—even hearts will make excellent force- meat for the purpose, if mixed duly with fat, bread, and seasoning. Of course, galantines of turkey or fowl are finer and more delicate, but, as the method of making is in all cases the same, a useful and economical recipe which may be made in kitchens of the most humble pretensions is given. As a piece de resistance there is none more useful for a large party than spiced beef. The brisket makes a very handsome dish, but for those who like something D 2HANDBOOK FOR 52 fatter and not so large, the rolled thick flank is better. The mock brawn will suit most tastes better than the real, as it is less rich and it has the advantage of being very economical. GALANTINE. Salt the rind of a loin of pork for a few days. It must not have on it more than a quarter of an inch of fat. When required for use, soak it to make it roll well, lay it flat, and place on it a layer of lean ham, then one of sausage-meat, or other forcemeat, highly seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs mixed into a paste with an egg and one fourth of its weight in fine bread-crumbs, and made very tasty with essence of anchovy; pass a knife twice over a clove of garlic and stir the mixture, or, if not objected to, add a minced shalot. Forcemeat for galantine should always have fat in equal proportion to the lean, then it will not eat dry. On the forcemeat put a layer of cooked tongue, pig’s or sheep’s will do, if you have any pieces of game, fowl, or rabbit at your command, they make an im- provement. Add a few pistachio kernels, blanched, and mushrooms if they are to be had. On this press another layer of forcemeat as before, and then roll all up tightly in the skin, put it into a cloth and cradle it with broad tape. Boil it in weak stock, or, if you have none, water salted and peppered, an onion or two, some cloves, a little fat, and a few bacon bones.53 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. It will take from three to four hours, according to the size. When done let it get cool in the liquor, then take it up, but do not remove the cloth, place it to press between two dishes, and put a heavy weight on the top, let it remain twenty-four hours, then remove the cloth, trim the ends and glaze it. Fowls which are a little too old for roasting make excellent galantines. They should be boned, the meat divided into convenient pieces and placed at intervals among the forcemeat. BRAWN. Take the brains out of a pig’s head and thoroughly cleanse it, boil it until perfectly tender, then take the meat from the bones and cut it up as hot as you can, mix with it the brains, which should be boiled separately in salt and water, season the whole evenly with black pepper, salt, and a pinch of allspice. Having skinned the tongue, cut it in large pieces and lay it among the meat, put all into a small collaring tin, set a weight on the top and allow it to stand until the next day, then turn it out of the tin. A head slightly salted is better than a fresh one for brawn, the tongue should be rubbed with saltpetre to give it colour. MOCK BRAWN.' Get a fine sheep’s head, thoroughly clean it and boil it for five minutes in salt and water, then put it into fresh water with a pound of pickled pork, and boilHANDBOOK FOR 54 both until thoroughly done. The addition of pig’s feet or a little rind of pork thoroughly cooked is a great improvement. When done, carefully take the meat from the head, cut it up with the pork, mix with the brains and tongue, and finish as directed for brawn. YORKSHIRE BRAWN. Take a pig’s head and foot, thoroughly cleanse them, cut the head and ears up, put it into a stewpan, cover it with water, and add a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of pepper, and chopped sage. Place it on the fire until it boils, then simmer gently until all the meat is off the bones. Take it up and chop it in a hot basin, add all the liquor in which the meat was boiled, stir up well and put it into earthenware jelly moulds. This is very good, but will not keep long in warm weather. PRESSED OX CHEEK. Thoroughly cleanse an ox cheek. The whole or a portion may be used, as convenient, boil it gently in salted water with an ox heel or pork skin, when both are thoroughly done take out all bones and chop up the meat, and having seasoned it highly with pepper, salt, and a little allspice, press it into the collaring tin and finish as for brawn. The liquor this is boiled in will make excellent soup.55 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. SPICED BEEF. For ten pounds of meat make the following pickle :— One pound of common salt, two ounces saltpetre, one ounce of cloves, half an ounce of allspice, half a pound of coarse sugar. Let all these ingredients be thoroughly pounded and mixed together. * Take ten pounds of the brisket of beef, rub it well with this pickle every day for a fortnight. When about to cook, roll it up as tightly as possible and tie it round with string, place it in a deep earthenware pan with a little stock, or water, and cover the top with suet; let it bake gently for four hours, or it may be boiled. When cold cut the string, and it will retain its form, glaze or cover with raspings. ROLLED BEEF. Choose a piece of the thick flank long enough to roll well—about four pounds will be enough for a small collaring tin. Put it into a pickle as directed for spiced beef. When about to cook take out the bones and gristle and remove all skin, roll the meat round, press it into the collaring tin and boil gently until it is perfectly tender. Put a weight on the top and let it stand until the next day. The bones, &c., taken out of the meat should be boiled in the water with it. PRESSED BEEF. Take a nice square piece of the thick flank, cure it56 HANDBOOK FOR as in the foregoing recipes, boil it in stock with a bay- leaf and an onion and a bundle of sweet herbs. When perfectly tender place it between two dishes with heavy weights on the top. The next day turn it neatly and glaze. This looks nice, and is improved if, when cold, it is cut to the size of a deep tin dish, and when placed in it a clear meat jelly is poured over so as to run well underneath it. When turned on to its dish to be served, the meat should be found covered with a bright, clear jelly, a quarter to half an inch thick. ROLLED TONGUE. Cure as directed for rolled beef. Boil it until very tender, and having skinned the tongue, and cleared away all gristle and bones from the root, roll it round whilst it is hot, and press it into the collaring tin. Press it, and allow it to stand twenty-four hours. Tongue rolled is far more economical than when served in its natural form, and is very delicious. GLAZE. The proper glazing for hams and tongues is expen- sive to buy, and somewhat troublesome to make. The following is cheap and very easily made :— Put a quarter of an ounce of gelatine into a jelly- pot with four tablespoonfuls of water. Let it simmer in the oven until quite thick, then add browning (burnt sugar), to make it the colour you wish.THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 57 POTTED BEEF, The meat which has been used for making beef- tea answers very well for this purpose, but if it is desired to have it of very fine quality steak should be used. A great deal cf time and trouble is saved in making potted meats if it is, after being cut into long thin strips, or as used for the beef-tea, passed through the mincing machine, it will then require but little pounding in the mortar. For children or large families the meat will be fine enough for potting if passed twice through the machine, and further pounding in the mortar can be dispensed with. For the finest kind of potted meat use steak, take away all skin and sinews, cut it into dice or strips and place it in a covered earthenware pot in a saucepan of water, or in the oven, and let it cook gently until all the gravy is drawn. Pour it off, then pound the meat in the mortar until perfectly smooth. To each pound of meat put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of Burgess’ essence of anchovy, and pepper and salt to taste. Put this into a covered jar as before and let it cook gently until the mass is hot through, stir it occasionally until nearly cold, then press it into little pots, and the next day pour over each, so as effectually to exclude air, sufficient clari- fied butter or mutton suet to cover them. COLD MUTTON POTTED. Cut up the meat, being careful to free it from all^8 HANDBOOK FOR TIIE BREAKFAST-TABLE. sinew and skin, chop or pound it with half its weight of cooked bacon until it is as fine as desired. Season with a little pepper, salt, and allspice, and proceed as directed for beef. Any kind of cold meat, veal and ham especially, is good potted, and in all cases the method is the same. Cod-fish potted may be made almost equal to salmon by the addition of essence of anchovy and a due admixture of salt and Cayenne pepper.CHAPTER VI. T seems almost necessary to apologize to my readers for offering any remarks on the subject of breakfast beverages. Yet as I am afraid there are few who are not frequently disap- pointed in the result of the apparently simple opera- tion of putting a little tea into a pot and pouring boiling water on it, I hope the following directions will not be deemed uncalled for. TEA. The old rule of “ a spoonful of tea for each person and one for the pot” is a good one; but this quantity, even of fine tea, will not make more than one nice cupful. The best method of making tea is, first to rinse out the pot with boiling water, then put in the tea, and fill up the pot with boiling water. The cozy should then be placed over the pot, which should remain undisturbed for a quar- ter of an hour. The practice of putting a small pinchHANDBOOK FOR 6o of soda in the teapot has been a good deal decried, nevertheless, the water of certain districts will not make good tea, and in such cases the use of minute portions of fine carbonate of soda, whilst on the score of health unobjectionable, will add greatly to the enjoyment of the “ cheering cup.” Water should never be allowed to boil longer than a minute before making tea. This is so well known to tea-tasters in the City, that they will not attempt to decide on the merits of any sample if the water in which it has been infused has continued in ebullition after reaching the boiling point. Earthenware teapots are the best; they are made now in great variety, at prices ranging from pence to shillings. If, however, one of silver or other metal is preferred, care should be taken that it is kept bright inside as well as out, and that it is never put away after use without being thoroughly dried. COFFEE. Fresh roasted and fresh ground are the two first essentials for making good coffee. A number of economical modes have been proposed of late years, yet it remains certain that good coffee can only be made with a liberal allowance of the raw material. It is a mistake, however, to suppose that coffee to be good must be strong. “ Coffee should never be boiled,” said a French lady to her English cook.6l THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. “Why not?” she asked; “it gets out all the goodness.” “ True, most true,” replied the mistress. Coffee cannot be prepared well in haste. In France a quarter of an hour or more is allowed for the infusion. The common tin percolator, or one made of earth- enware, which is very superior, is most generally used. Coffee is also made in a bag, shaped liked one for jelly, made sometimes of linen, sometimes of flannel; the former is much preferred in Belgium. In either case patience is required, and it is the possession of this virtue in matters culinary which gives the French such an immense advantage over us. With respect to the quantity of coffee, as was before remarked, it must be liberal—not less than one ounce to every pint of water. Never use chicory. To its admixture with coffee may be attributed the many complaints of English people respecting it, and cer- tainly many of the ill effects supposed to follow its use. COCOA. Prepared from the nibs there is apt to be too much fatty matter, but this may be obviated by skimming the cocoa during the boiling, or by allowing it to grow quite cold, and then removing the oily particles, which of course all float on the surface. Allow a teacupful of nibs to every quart of water, and let it simmer in a coffee-pot for six hours,HANDBOOK FOR THE BREAKFAST-TABI.E. 62 keeping the pot filled up with water, and skimming as directed. A very cheap and useful beverage, and perfectly wholesome, is made from cocoa shells. A pound costs but threepence. Proceed as for nibs, but allow a breakfast-cup of shells to a quart of water. Among the most recent preparations of cocoa Van Houten’s may be cited as the best. It is not mixed with starch or sugar, and has all the fine aroma of pure cocoa. GILBERT AND . RIVINGTON, PRINTERS, ST. JOHN’S SQUARE, LONDON.- .* ■ . * \ *HHBBgngnm iiifiii I-'.,":./...f ..'r' v y ;:i pjeojo|oo^2 $ • :» . » 1 '•> • • ,^y{ . r.- Sia - r' - - f : * . ' ;' i•.'•• ■- - .