MELVIN’S food FOR INFANTS & INVALIDS. F. M. FISH wri^j . 39 “SSS^'ClaP^n- FOOD ^aS been fed n MELLIN’S H u1 y’an prOVe>by his strength and size how excellent theFOGd is ” MELLIN’S FOOD BISIUUS, Palatable, Digestive,.Nmirisling, Straining. Price 2s. and 3s. wr chakespearian ^ FEEDING and REA FANTS.—A pamphlet of Shakespeare and portraits of together with testimonials which of »•> ScWEt ... t —w u,y uii ctppueatio^o— r* - y — —7 * ^ uii Hppu< G. MELLIKT, Marlboro’ Works, Peckham, London, S.E TO risa make a RIC CAKE. Take half-a-pouhd of butt a-pound of white sifted- these with tjfie hand,,, well cream- add‘four eggs, one «, well beat eafch one' with the 'sugar ; lightly mix in one previously mixe teaspoon fu I of Gocp Medal Ba^ then; lightly mip men iigfttly mix* with th whole half-a-pouqd of sultanas bake at once, thorough quick|ovep. Bo^vv^’^Go®Raking PotfE?,7li?t£ quarter-of-a-pound of butter, add six ounces of suitable Jr J.l " Wn a i p u^rter'°.j^*Pohnd#of butt^, add s^^mces of sulte^^,^t^oC^n^s^o?mr and half-a-teacupfuFo^Uk pfer 1 'on SORWICK’S. ks : JOHN HODGKIN, F.L.S.IV" w*TIONAL CONDIMENT. Med KIOIOO ELEBRATED FOR ITS UNEQUALLED FLAVOUR. SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCE OF TO ENSURE GOOD FLAVOUR ALWAYS USE MACE, CINNAMON, NUTMEGS', CLOVES, CASSIA, CARAWAY, ■ ** ; s in Canisters weighing from 1 oz. to rl lb . — : :—> . lj|g|qj|p KEEN, ROBINSON, & BELIVILLE, - - • * 7 * * LONDON.S. & H. HARRIS’S FOR BOOTS AND SHOES. BLACKING DOES NOT INJURE THE LEATHER. REQUIRES NO BRUSHING. THE BEST IN THE MARKET. UNSURPASSED POLISHING PASTE, For Metals and Glass of all descriptions. PLATE POWDER, Does not Injure the Silver. BRUNSWICK^ BLACK, For Stoves or Iron Work. Imparts a beautifully hard polish and enamel-like surface to Stoves, Fenders, and all kinds of Ironwork. FURNITURE POLISH & CREAM. STEEL POWDER, For Polishing Bright Grates, Fenders, and Fire Irons. URN POWDER. MANUFACTURED BY S. «SC H. HARRIS, 57 Mansell Street, London, E. TO BE HAD OF ALL IRONMONGERS, GROCERS, AND OILMEN. ASK FOR IT. TRADE MARK.THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR THE National Training School . For Cookery CONTAINING THE LESSONS ON COOKERY WHICH CONSTITUTE A Cljr #rtrhmrg Course of Jfitsfntrftort xn % Srjjool WITH" LISTS OF UTENSILS NECESSARY\ AND LESSONS ON CLEANING UTENSILS COMPILED BY R. 0. C. ^ ‘ ' FROM THE COURSE OF PRACTICE IN THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL c TWENTY-FIRST THOUSAND LONDON: CHAPMAN & HALL LimitedCONTENTS PAGE PREFACE LIST OF UTENSILS ..»•** LIST OF CLEANING MATERIALS ...» LESSONS ON CLEANING LESSONS ON COOKERY APPENDIX • RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE SCHOOL INDEX WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. Gtr 5 . 12 13 . 17 445 • 455 467PREFACE TO NEW EDITION. I. This work has been written to explain in an easy and altogether new way the first principles of good Cookery, and being in the form of lessons is especially addressed to those who wish to carry them into practice. It has been the aim of the writer to leave no detail, however small, vaguely stated. It is taken for granted that the learner has no knowledge on the subject. The loose expres- sions, such as “ a pinch/’ a “ little,” found in most cookery books, are therefore avoided as much as is possible, and precise quantities are given. II. The work is not to be regarded as an exhaus- tive cookery book with very numerous recipes. It aims to be rather a grammar than a dictionary. III. The lessons give a sufficient number of examples of cookery, illustrating many degrees of cost: thus the rich may have a dish of curried rabbit for y. g\d., and the poor may have a dish of curried tripe for iof^.Preface. 4 IV. The work is based upon the instruction given by the cooks in the School, and it has been used and tested in the National Training School for Cookery since 1875. The instructors now em- ployed in local schools throughout the country have been taught and practised by means of these lessons. V. It has been found that it is most convenient to practise the lesson with the instructions in sight close at hand. An edition of each lesson has been printed on separate sheets of thick paper, for the use of students and teachers, which may be obtained at the National Training School for Cookery, or at the Publishers. VI. The present Edition has been revised throughout; some changes have been made, and some new recipes have been added in an Appendix. VII. Still the writer continues to request that the notices of any errors and omissions, which are inevitable in a work of this kind, may be com- municated to R. O. C. to the care of the Publishers. R. O. C.National Training School for Cookery. 5 • A 1 u Carry forward . UTENSILS REQUIRED FOR THE LOCAL CLASSES FOR COOKERY, IN CONNECTION WITH THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. As supplied to the Schools by Messrs. B. Perkins and Son. FOR A HIGH CLASS COOKERY DEMONSTRATION LESSON. LIST OF UTENSILS AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. . £ s. d. 2 large sanitary seamless saucepans o 7 io 1 small ditto . . . . . . . . ..017 1 oval pot 050 2 sanitary seamless stewpans 5 3 I copper stewpan 090 f deep stewpan for frying 046 1 frying basket 039 1 frying pah 013 1 omelet pan .010 1 colander 016 1 Yorkshire-pudding tin 009 2 baking sheets ,044 1 set of scales and weights (4 lbs. and down) , . .0156 2 cake tins . . * . . 014 2 soufflet moulds , .02S 3 measures (1 gill, § pint, and 1 pint) 020 1 pudding mould 013 2 jelly moulds . . ..060 1 aspic jelly mould .026 6 patty pans 004 2 cook’s knives . .036 6 wooden spoons 012 2 forks . . . 016 4 iron spoons . . 012 2 tea spoons . , , .005 1 grater 007 1 flour dredger o o 10 1 pepper dredger 010 1 pail 012 1 can . . . . . . . , , . ..043 2 galvanized washing-up tubs . . . , , .059 1 egg whisk 009 2 strainers . . .0296 National Training School for Cookery. Brought forward i hair sieve i wire sieve i paste board i rolling pin i box of paste cutters ...» 1 pastry brush 2 French vegetable cutters i fish kettle UTENSILS ALSO REQUIRED. 6 plates * 2 soup plates 4 dishes 3 pie dishes 3 large basins 4 small basins 2 jugs . • • 6 tea-cloths, about 9d. yard .... 2 pudding-cloths, about $d. yard .... 2 dish-cloths, about 4d. yard .... £ *• 5 1 11 010 029 039 006 03° 010 010 063 £6 1 2 £ s. d Ol6 0 0 6 O46 0 0 9 0 3 9 0 14 OIO O46 0 0 5 0 0 6 £0 18 9 STOVE REQUIRED. Gas stoves, price from about £4. 4s. od. to £7 7s. od. N.B. If utensils be required for a practice class to accommodate ten pupils, the above list of utensils must be doubled in number, and in addition 10 knives 17s. 6d., a flour box 3s., and seasoning box 5s. will be required.7 National Training School for Cookery. UTENSILS REQUIRED FOR THE LOCAL CLASSES FOR COOKERY, IN CONNECTION WITH THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. FOR A PLAIN COOKERY DEMONSTRATION LESSON. LIST OF UTENSILS AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. £ s. d. 1 oval iron boiler 050 2 large saucepans 075 2 medium ditto 041 1 frying pan . ..016 1 omelet pan 010 1 colander 016 t Yorkshire-pudding tin 009 2 baking sheets 044 1 weighing machine and weights 0156 2 cake tins 014 1 bread tin 010 3 tin measures (1 gill, | pint and 1 pint) 020 6 pattypans 004 2 cook’s knives 036 2 forks 014 4 iron spoons 012 4 wooden spoons . .011 2 tea-spoons . . . .. 005 1 bread and nutmeg grater 007 1 flour dredger 0010 1 pepper dredger 010 1 pail 012 1 can 043 2 galvanized washing-up tubs ..059 1 gravy strainer 013 1 paste board 039 1 rolling pin 006 £$ 12 48 National Training School for Cookery. UTENSILS ALSO REQUIRED. £ s. d. 6 plates 016 2 soup plates 006 4 dishes 046 3 pie dishes . . ..009 3 large basins 039 4 small basins 014 2 jugs . .010 6 tea-cloths, about 9d. yard . . . . . ..046 2 pudding-cloths, about 5 d. yard .005 2 dish-cloths, about 4d. yard 006 £0 '8 9 STOVE REQUIRED. Gas stoves, price from about £4 4s. od. to £7 7s. od. N.B. If utensils be required for a practice class, to accommodate ten pupils, the above lists of utensils must be doubled in number, and in addition 10 knives 17s. 6d., a flour box 3^., and seasoning box 5^., will be required.National Training School for Cookery. 9 •.£7 8 4 Carry forward . A COMPLETE AND ECONOMICAL ESTIMATE LIST OF UTENSILS REQUIRED IN A KITCHEN, AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. £ s. d. 4 saucepans (sizes from pint to 5 quarts) . . . .098 1 potato steamer ..026 I enamelled saucepan (size 1 quart) . . . . .023 I copper preserving pan 0176 1 soup digester (size 4 quarts) . . . . . . o 3 9 I oval boiling pot (4^ gallons) 086 1 fish kettle 069 2 frying pans 0210 1 French stewpan . . .023 1 frying basket ..029 I brass bottle-jack . .0106 I meat screen and dripping pan 0156 1 basting ladle .014 1 gridiron ..016 1 baking sheet with turned ends . . . , . .016 1 Yorkshird’-pudding tin ..009 1 wrought-iron teakettle. . . . . . . .040 1 coffee pot (French, to hold 3 pints) . . ..036 1 soufflet tin (size 1^ pint) 014 1 mould for apple Charlotte 013 1 jelly mould (size 1^ pint) 026 1 aspic jelly mould 026 1 tin colander .016 2 cake tins (i round, 9d.. and 1 oblong, ij.) . . . . o j 9 6 patty pans, 6d.; 2 open tart tins, is. 4d. . . . . o 1 10 1 strainer 013 1 wrought-iron salamander 056 1 pair of steak tongs 019 1 paste board . . .039 1 rolling pin ..006 1 paste brush, is.; 1 paste jagger, 1 s. . . . . .020 1 box of paste cutters . 030 I chopping board 020 1 marble mortar. . ..083 1 lignum-vitae pestle 029 1 flour dredger 0010 1 sugar dredger . . .012 i slice, is.; 1 egg slice, lod. o 1 10 1 egg whisk 009 1 wire sieve 029io National Training School for Cookery. £ <t- Brought forward . . . 784 E hair sieve 010 1 whitebait sieve 023 1 tammy cloth 026 1 patent felt jelly bag . . . . . . ..030 1 flour tub 030 1 Japanned spice box 029 1 canister for tea 010 1 canister for coffee 010 1 coffee mill 036 1 box of vegetable cutters 0 3 3 1 meat cleaver 0210 1 meat saw 026 1 mincing knife . . .016 1 carving knife and fork 040 ^ dozen table knives and forks, ioj. 6d. dozen . . *053 2 cook’s knives (French) 040 1 vegetable knife . . . . , . . . .013 1 dishing-up fork 019 1 kitchen steel 016 3 iron spoons 00 10J 6 wooden spoons .0011 1 larding needle 007 1 trussing needle 006 1 set of steel skewers 010 1 bread grater 008 2 tin funnels . 007 1 seasoning box 050 4 tin measures (from ^ pint to 1 quart) . . ..0211 1 corkscrew . 008 1 improved weighing machine and weights . . . , o 17 6 | dozen quenelle shells 013 1 set of 3 pot triangles ..023 1 toasting fork 010 1 salt box 023 1 salt cellar 009 1 meringue bag with funnel 013 1 mustard pot, is. 6d.; 1 pepper box, 6d. . . .020 1 Japanned tea-tray 042 1 kitchen fender 086 1 set of fire irons 056 1 coal scuttle 036 1 hand shovel . ..010 1 cinder sifter, is. 9d.; coal hammer, is. 6d. . . . o 3 3 £i3 A11 Kitchen Requisites. KITCHEN STOVES. L s. d. The “ Mistress”* cooking range in all sizes ; prices 1 varying from about . ££> to 10 0 0 Or the “ Kensington Range ” from about • &3 IOJ. to 16 10 0 Or the “ Kensington Kitchener ” from about ^11 to 16 0 0 * Frymometer (for testing the heat of fat for frying) 0 10 6 * Thermometer for testing the heat of the oven for baking . 0 10 6 Fitting thermometer in the oven door . . . . 0 5 0 N.B. This thermometer is fixed in the oven door, and cannot, therefore, register the proper heat inside the oven. Black Boards for lectures, varying in size from 30 inches by 24 inches to 61 inches by 48 inches; prices from 4s. 6d. to 13^. 6d. * This stove and these instruments are used in the National Training School for Cookery.12 National Training School for Cookery. LIST OF CLEANING UTENSILS AND MATERIALS REQUIRED, AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. £ S. d. *1 tin water-can . 4 3 *1 dustpan, is., and brush, IJ. 6d. . 2 6 *1 handbowl . 2 3 *1 galvanized pail 1 6 *2 galvanized tubs for sink . O 5 9 *2 scrubbing brushes . . . O 2 6 *3 black-lead brushes . 3 3 *1 sweep’s brush 0 9 *1 flue brush . 1 6 *1 hair broom . 2 9 *1 bass broom 1 9 *1 knife board . . . 1 9 *1 wooden soap box 0 6 *1 sink brush . . . O 0 6 *1 sieve brush . O 1 2 *1 pot brush 0 9 *1 pair of washleather gloves . O 0 10 *1 chamois leather . • • . . . O 1 0 1 hearthstone O 0 6 1 box of blacklead . 0 6 Whitening 0 1 Rottenstone 0 1 Bath brickdust . O 0 1 \ quire of emery cloth 0 9 6 lbs. of soda. . O 0 7 1 bar of scrubbing soap . . . . O 0 11 Sand .... 0 6 Salt 0 4 White chalk . 0 2 1 yard of house flannel 0 6 £203National Training School for Cookery. LESSONS ON CLEANING STOVES, GRATES, AND KITCHEN UTENSILS. TO CLEAN AN OPEN KITCHEN RANGE. 1. We should rake out all the cinders, and sift them into a scuttle for use. N.B.—All the dust should be thrown away. 2. We take a sweep’s brush, and sweep down all the soot from the flues and oven. 3. We should remove the soot door at the back, and the rings on the top of the oven, force the flue brush upwards and downwards ; then sweep the soot from the top of the oven, down the flue at the side of the oven, the farthest from the fire, and remove the small flush door on the top over this side, and sweep all the soot off the sides to the bottom. 4. We must then remove a small door under the bottom of the oven, and carefully draw out the soot from the right hand, and also the left hand, with the raker, and then re- place the doors and dampers. 5. We must now clean the boiler flue. We remove the soot door at the back, and force the flue brush in the opening upwards and downwards : then take the raker, and carefully rake away all the clinkers and soot from under the boiler, and now replace the soot door. N.B.—The water is heated from the heat that passes under the boiler, and not the surface heat in front, therefore if the flue under the boiler is not clear of clinkers, no hot water can be obtained. 6. We mix some pounded black lead in a gallipot, with enough water to make it into a smooth thick liquid. We dip the black-lead brush in the mixture, and black-lead the whole of the range, beginning from the top of the stove by the dampers, and then downwards.14 National Training School for Cookery. 7. When the black lead is dry, we brush it all over with a dry brush. 8. We then take another brush, and polish the range all over, so as to make it quite bright. N.B.—The bars of the stove should be done in the same way. 9. We take the sweeps brush, and sweep the remaining soot and dust from the stove, and thfe hearth. 10. We polish the steel handles and bolts of the oven, by rubbing them with emery paper. 11. The brass handles and bolts we should polish, with bath brickdust and a leather. 12. We get a flannel and a pail of hot water, put in it some soda, and wash the hearth all over. N.B.—We must not wet it too much. 13. We take a hearthstone, and rub it all over the hearth. 14. We then wring the flannel out in the hot water, and smooth the hearth over, rubbing it lightly all in one direction. 15. We must black-lead and polish the inside of the fender, in the same way as we did the range, and brighten the rim of it by rubbing it with emery paper. TO LAY A FIRE. 1. We should place a few sifted cinders at the bottom of the grate. 2. We then put in a piece of crumpled paper, and arrange the sticks over it, laying them across each other. 3. We now put a few pieces of coal on the top, rather to the front, so as to leave a good draught at the back to draw the fire. 4. When the fire has lighted, and has burned up a little, we can add more sifted cinders mixed with the coal. 5. We should only put small quantities of coal and cinders on the fire at a time.Lessons on Cleaning Stoves. 15 TO CLEAN A CLOSE KITCHEN RANGE. 1. We proceed in the same way, as for an open range (from note 1 to note 6). 2. We should pull out the drawer just below the oven, in which we shall find the soot has fallen. 3. We empty all the soot away, and sweep out the drawer clean. 4. We now take the sweep’s brush, and sweep down the range. 5. We black-lead, polish the range, and clean the hearth and fender, as described for an open range (from note 3 to end). 6. We take down the iron plate-rack across the top of the range, and rub the bars with emery cloth. 7. We should dust the fire-irons,, and if they are rusty, they should be rubbed with emery cloth or oil and leather. TO CLEAN A GAS STOVE. 1. We require the same materials as for a kitchen range. 2. We lift out the bars at the top, and rub them with emery cloth until they are quite clean and bright. 3. We wash the top of the stove with a flannel dipped in hot water and soda, so as to remove all grease and dirt; we then wring out the flannel, and partially dry the top of the stove. 4. We now black-lead and polish it, in the same way as for the kitchen range. N.B.—We must be careful not to stop up the gas holes with black lead. 5. We place the bars back over the stove. 6. We polish the brass handles of the gas burners, with bath brickdust and a leather. 7. We wash the tiles round the stove, with the flannel, hot water, and soda. 8. We dry them with a cloth.Lessons on Cleaning. i6 TO CLEAN AN IRON SAUCEPAN. 1. We should wash the saucepan well, in hot water and soda. N.B.—-All the black should be removed, from the outside and bottom. 2. We must soap the palm of one hand, and rub the inside of the saucepan. N.B.—In washing any greasy utensil, it is best if possible, to use the hand instead of a flannel, as the latter retains the grease and so keeps putting the grease on again, instead of rubbing it off. 3. We mix some sand and powdered soda together, and then dip the soap into it, and rub the inside of the sauce- pan until it is quite clean and bright. 4. We now rinse it in water, and dry it with a cloth. 5. We should clean the lid in the same way. N.B.—A white enamelled stewpan is cleansed in the same way, great care should be taken to remove all the stains off the white enamel inside. N.B.—Salt might be mixed with the sand, and used to remove the stains from the enamel. TO CLEAN A COPPER STEWPAN. 1. We mix some sand and salt together on a plate, half the quantity of salt to that of sand. 2. We wash the stewpan well in hot water and soda. 3. We soap the hand, dip it in the salt and sand, and rub the inside of the pan, until all stains are removed, and it has become clean and bright. 4. We rinse it out well in the water, dry the inside quickly, and then turn over the pan, and clean the copper outside. 5. We should rub it in the same way with a soaped hand, dipped in sand and salt. N.B.—If there are many stains on it, an old half lemon, or vinegar, might be used to remove them. N.B.—Only the copper part should be cleaned with lemon or vinegar. 6. We now rinse it again thoroughly, and dry it quickly with a cloth.LESSONS ON COOKERY. ROASTING. Now we will show you how to roast meat at an open range, but first we must see that the fire is clear and bright. 1. We must take the shovel and put it in at the back of the fire and push all the red hot coals to the front. 2. We put fresh coal at the back, packing it together rather closely, but taking care that we leave a draught at the back, to draw the fire and make it burn clear and bright. 3. We must fill in all the spaces in the front of the fire with small lumps of coal or coke. N.B.—If it be a close range with which we are dealing, we should pull out the centre damper only, which will create a draught at the back, and help to draw the fire up quickly. 4. We now take our joint, say a leg of mutton. 5. We must see that it is quite clean, and, if necessary, we must scrape it with a knife and wipe it over with a clean cloth. N.B.—Meat should not, as a rule, be washed in water, as it takes some of the goodness out. If meat has been kept some time and is not quite fresh, then you might wash it with a little vinegar and water, but it must be well wiped afterwards. 6. We take the leg of mutton and with a sharp knife cut off the knuckle bone. N.B.—The knuckle lone we put aside ; it can be used with beef for leeftea, or be put in the stockpot, or the trimmings and one pint of water will make gravy for the joint when done, allowing it to simmer while the joint is roasting.18 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We trim off the piece of flank and remove the thick piece of skin from the part where the leg joins the loin. (These trimmings must be put aside, as they can be used for other purposes.) 8. We must now weigh the leg of mutton, so as to find out how long it will take to roast it, as a quarter of an hour is allowed for each pound of weight, and one quarter of an hour besides. N.B.—When we have a joint without bone, such as rolled ribs of beef or topside of beef, we must allow twenty minutes to each pound of weight, as it is all solid meat. 9. We take the leg of mutton, which weighs say seven pounds, it will therefore take two hours to roast. 10. We put the roasting screen in front of the fire to keep off the draught and keep in all the heat. 11. We put the dripping pan down on a stand within the screen, close to the fire, with the dripping ladle. 12. We hang the roasting jack up from the mantelpiece over the dripping’pan. N.B.—Some roasting screens contain the dripping pan and the jack, which are of course more convenient. 13. We take the hook of the roasting jack and pass it through the knuckle-end of the leg. 14. We must wind up the jack with the key, before we put the joint on, so as to make it twist the meat round. 15. We must put the joint close to the fire for the first five minutes. 16. After that time we can draw the joint a little further back, or it will cook too quickly and become burnt and dried. N.B.—Meat that is frozen must be placed some way from the.fire at first, and then drawn gradually towards it, as it must thaw slowly or it may become tough. 17. We must baste the joint every five minutes with the drippings that run from it into the pan, using the dripping ladle. 18. We let the joint roast for tzvo hours, as its weight is seven pounds. 19. After that time, and just before we dish up theLessons on Cooking Meat.—Roasting. 19 joint, we must sprinkle about a saltspoonful of salt over it, and then baste it well. 20. We must take a large dish and warm it well. 21. Now we can take the hook of the jack, and place the joint on to the hot dish, and draw out the hook. 22. We take about a gill of hot stock and pour it into the dish. [This makes the gravy, and when the joint is cut, the juices from the meat will add to it.] 23. We must take a piece of demy paper and cut it like a fringe. This we put round the end of the knuckle bone. N.B.—The dripping in the pan should be poured into a basin, and when it is cold there will be under the cruet °f dripping a good gravy. When the dripping is required for use it must be carefully removed from the top of the gravy, and clarified. (See Lesson on “Frying.”) Nearly all joints can be roasted in this way. Attention should be paid to the rules explained above concerning joints of meat without bone. 120 National Training School for Cookery. BOILING. Now we will show you how to boil meat. 1. We must give attention to the fire, and build it up gradually with small pieces of coal} so as to make it bum clear and bright. 2. We must not have a smoky fire for boiling, or the meat will get smoked, we should start with a good fire, and keep it up by adding occasionally small coal, and so prevent smoke as much as possible. N.B.—We do not require such a clear bright fire as for roasting. 3. We now take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the joint to be cooked. 4. We fill the saucepan almost full of cold water, and put it on the fire to warm. N.B .—Salt should always be added to the water in the saucepan to make the water taste, unless the meat to be cooked is already salted, in which case it should be omitted. 5. We now take the joint, say, for example, a piece of the silver side of beef salted. 6. We must see that it is quite clean, and if necessary we must scrape it with a knife, and wipe it over with a clean cloth. N.B.—Meat should not as a rule be washed in water, as it takes some of the goodness out. Meat that has been kept some time, and is not quite fresh, might be washed with vinegar and, water, but it must be well wiped afterwards. N.B.—Salt meat must not be washed with vinegar and water, but only with salt and water. 7. We must now weigh the piece of salt beef,\ so as to find out how long it will take to boil, as ten minutes are allowed for each lb. of meat. N.B.—This rule refers to the boiling of all meat except pork, which requires fifteen minutes to each lb. of meat. A. —In boiling meat to be eaten th& joint should be first plunged into boiling water, in order that the albumen on the outside of the joint may become hardened, and so prevent the escape of the paces of the meat. B. —The temperature of the water should then be lowered gradually (by adding a small quantity of cold water and drawing the saucepan to the side oi the fire), and the meat allowed to simmer gently, or it will become tough.Lessons on Cooking Meat.■—Boiling. 21 C. —In boiling meat for the purpose of making soup, the meat should be put into cold water, in order to extract all the goodness from the meat. D. —The water should be brought gradually to boiling point, then moved to the side of the fire, and left to simmer gently for some length of time. N.B.—Salt meat must be put into warm water, so as to extract a little of the salt before the pores of the skin are closed up ; if the meat were put into boiling water the pores of the skin would be closed, and the meat would be hardened by the salt not being allowed to escape. 8. When the water in the saucepan is warm, we take the beef, which weighs, say, eight pounds (it will therefore take about one hour and twenty minutes), and put it in the sauce- pan; there should be only just enough water to cover the joint. 9. We let the water just boil up, and then we should move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for the remainder of the time. 10. As soon as the water comes to the boil we must take a large spoon and skim the water carefully. N.B.—The scum should be skimmed off directly it rises, or it will boil down again in the meat and spoil it. Scum is the impurity which rises from the meat. N.B.—We must be very careful not to let the meat boil, or it will be hardened and tough. 11. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, we take it carefully out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish for serving. We pour about a gill of the liquor (in which it was boiled) round the joint (this makes the gravy, and when the joint is cut the juices from the meat will add to it). N.B.—The liquor from boiled meat can always be used for different pur- poses, and should therefore never be thrown away, but poured into a clean basin and put aside to cool, the fat should be carefully removed from the top of the liquor, while it is cold, before being used. Salt liquor is often used for making pea soup.22 National Training School for Cookery. BAKING. Meat, Bread, Pastry, &c. Now we will show you how to bake meat. 1. We must have a good fire, and keep it up, adding by degrees small pieces of coal, as the oven is required to be very hot. N.B.—If it be a close range with which we are dealing, we should pull out the damper placed over the oven in order to draw all the heat of the fira towards the oven. The ventilator of the oven should be closed. N.B.—In kitchen stoves there is usually either a handle at the top of the oven, to be pulled out for opening the ventilator, or a slide ventilator at the bottom. 2. We should test the heat of the oven by the thermometer which is fixed in the door of the oven, the heat should rise to 240° Fahrenheit. 3. We take the joint, see that it is clean, as directed in “ Lesson on Roasting/’ Note 5, and weigh it, so as to find out how long it will take to bake, as ten minutes are allowed for each pound of weight. N.B.—When we have a joint without lone we must allow about fifteen minutes to each pound of weight, as it is solid meat. 4. We take the hot water tin, on which the stand for the meat is placed, lift up the upper tin or tray and fill the under tin half full of warm water, we then fit on the upper tin. N.B.—In one corner of the upper tin is a small hole or escape for the steam. The water below must only just reach this hole, and not come into it. N.B.—The water is placed in the tin to prevent the tin and the meat from getting burnt, and so causing a disagreeable smell. 5. We place the stand on the hot water tin to raise the joint and prevent it from standing in its own dripping, which would sodden and spoil the meat. 6. We now take the joint, which weighs say seven pounds (it will therefore take one hour and ten minutes to bake), and put it on the stand. We should dredge four over it. 7. We put the tin with the meat in the oven. The oven should be kept very hot for the first five minutes, in order toLessons on Cooking Meat.—Baking. 23 form a brown crust on the outside of the joint, to keep in the juices of the meat. After that time the ventilator of the oven should be opened, so as to allow the steam to escape, or the meat would get sodden. N.B.—Meat that is frozen must be gradually warmed, to thaw it before shutting it up in the hot oven, or it would be tough. 8. We must baste the joint every jifteen minutes with the drippings that run from the meat into the pan, using the dripping ladle. N. B.—Joints that are not very fat must be even more frequently basted, or they would burn : if there is not sufficient dripping from the meat, a little extra dripping should be put into the pan. N. B.—Joints that have no fat should be covered with a piece of whitey brown paper which has been spread with butter or dripping—it will prevent the meat catching too quickly. 9. We should turn the joint over occasionally, as the upper side will get browned quicker than the lower. N.B.—Potatoes, washed and peeled, or a small suet or dripping and flour pudding (see “ Puddings,” Lesson No. 28), or a Yorkshire pudding (see “ Puddings,” Lesson No. 29), might be baked under the meat, but they should only be put in half an hotir before the meat is finished. 10. Just before we dish up the joints we should sprinkle about a saltspoonfitl of salt over it, and then baste it well. 11. We serve the joint on a hot dish (as described in “Lesson on Roasting,” Note 22, and act with regard to the dripping according to the “ N.B.” after Note 23.) N.B.—Pastry ox bread, &c., should not be baked in the oven at the same time as the meat, as the steam would prevent their baking properly, For baking small patties and tartlets made of Puff Paste, the ther- mometer fixed in the oven door should rise to 300° Fahrenheit. For meat pies, tarts, &c., the thermometer should rise to 280°. For bread the thermometer should rise to 280°, and must be reduced after a quarter of an hour to 2200.24 National Training School for Cookery. FRYING. And Lessons on Clarifying Butter, Fat, and Dripping. The principles of frying. 1. We must have a clear bright fire. N.B. We must be very careful it is not smoky. 2. We should be careful that the utensil used is very dean, for if there is anything sticking at the bottom of the pan, it will quickly catch or burn, and so spoil the contents. 3. We should clarify all fat (not larch), dripping; and butter, before using them, to remove the impurities from the former, and the butter-milk, and other watery sub- stance, from the latter. N.B.—Fat need not be clarified more than once. After using it we should always pour it off carefully in a basin, and when it is cold we should remove the sediment from the bottom of the cake of fat. Butter must be clarified each time it is used, to remove all watery substances. 4. We must have the fat very hot; good frying depends on the fat being properly heated. 5. We should test the heat of the fat by a frimometer, if possible; the heat should rise to 345 degrees Fahrenheit for ordinary frying, and 400 degrees for whitebait. N.B.—If there be no frimometer, the heat of the fat may be tested by the look—as fat gets quite still and begins to smoke when it is very hot—or by throwing in a small piece of crumb of bread, and if it fries directly a light brown, the fat is ready for use. 6. We should use a deep pan with plenty of fat, so that anything put in may be entirely covered. 7. We can fry bacon in its own fat, it only requires watching and turning till it is done (see Lesson on “ Liver and Bacon,” from Note 1 to Note 5). 8. We can fry chops or steaks, or slices of meat, in either an oz. of clarified dripping or butter. 9. We should melt the fat first, but it does not require to be heated. 10. We must be watchful, when the meat is frying, not to allow it to burn; we should turn it over occasionally. N.B.—If there be a gridiron it is much better to grill chops and steaks, as it prevents their being greasy (see Lesson on a “Grilled Steak’’). For frying Fish, see “ Fish,” Lessons Nos. 3, 6, 7, and 13. For frying Meat, Rissoles, Potatoes, &c., see “Cooked Meat,” Lessons Nos. 2 and 6; “ Australian Meat,” Lesson No. 4; “ Entrees,”" Lessons Nos. 4 and n : and “ Vegetables,” Lessons Nos. 3 and 4..Lessons on Frying and Clarifying Fat, 25 To render down or clarify fat. 1. We take any scraps of cooked or uncooked fat, and cut them up in small pieces. 2. We put the pieces in an old but clean saucepan, and pour in just enough cold water to cover them. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire and keep it boiling; it will take about an hour, the lid should be off the saucepan. 4. We must stir the fat occasionally, to prevent it from burning or sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. 5. When the water has evaporated, and the pieces of fat are cooked, we should pour the melted fat through an old sieve into a basin, and when cold it can be used for all frying purposes instead of lard. To clarify dripping. 1. We should put the dripping in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. When it boils we pour it into a basin in which there should be half a pint of cold water. 3. When the dripping is cold, we take a knife and cut around the edge, so as to take out the cake of dripping. 4. We should scrape off all the sediment that will be found on the bottom of the cake, and wipe it dry with a cloth. To clarify butter. 1. We put the quantity of butter required for present use in a small saucepan, and put it on the fire and let it boil. 2. When the butter has boiled, we must take a spoon -and remove the white scum from the top. 3. We should then pour the clear butter carefully into the pan for use, as below the butter will be a little more watery substance,26 National Training School for Cookery. COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. i. HASHED MEAT. Average cost of “ Hashed Meat.” INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of scraps of cold meat and bone 6 2 small onions i i carrot \ x bunch of herbs (consisting of i bay leaf, a ) sprig of marjoram, thyme, parsley,) .... > \ About a tablespoonful of flour ) i dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup i Sippets of bread j Salt and pepper > 15 1 oz. of butter ) 10 Time required, abozct two hours; or if the stock for the gravy is already made, then only half an hour. Now we will show you how to Hash Cold Meat. 1. We take any remains of cold meat, cut off all the meat from the bone, and cut it into thin slices. 2. We chop the bone in pieces, and put them into a saucepan. 3. We take one onion, peel it and cut it in quarters. 4. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it, and cut it in quarters. 5. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a cloth. 6. We take one bay leaf, one sprig of marjoram and thyme, and the parsley, and tie them tightly together with a piece of string. 7. We put the herbs and the vegetables into the saucepan with the bones, and pour in enough cold water to cover them.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Hashed Meat. 27 8. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils we should add pepper and salt, according to taste. 9. We now put the lid on, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire to stew gently for one hour, or one hour and a half; we should watch it and skim it occasionally. 10. We take a small onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 11. We put an ounce of butter into a frying pan. 12. We put the pan on the fire, and when the butter is. melted we add the sliced onion, and let it fry a nice brown. 13. We must shake the pan occasionally to prevent the slices of onion from sticking to the bottom of the pan, and burning. 14. When the onion is sufficiently browned, we strain off the butter, and put the onion on to a plate. 15. When the bones have stewed long enough, we should strain off the liquor into a basin. 16. We wash out the saucepan, and pour back the liquor. 17. We put a tablespoonfid of flour into a small basin. 18. We add a tablespoonful of the liquor to the flour, and stir it into a smooth paste. 19. We stir this paste gradually into the liquor in the saucepan. 20. We also add the browned onion, and a dessertspoonfid of mushroom ketchup. 21. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the sauce until it boils and thickens. 22. We let it boil for two or three minutes, until the flour is cooked. N.B.—We should be careful to stir the sauce smoothly while it boils, or it will be lumpy. 23. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and when it is off the boil, we lay in the pieces of meat to warm through. N.B.—We must not let the sauce boil while the meat is in it, or the meat, will get hard and tough. 24. We cut a thin slice of bread, and cut it into square pieces.28 National Training School for Cookery. 25. We cut these square pieces in half, cornerwise, mak- ing the pieces into triangles. 26. We put one ounce of clarified dripping (see Lesson on “ Frying ”) in a frying pan to melt. 27. When the dripping is quite hot we put in the sippets of bread, and let them fry a light brown. 28. We should turn them, so that they get browned on each side. 29. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate, and when the sippets are fried, we turn them on to the paper to ■drain off the grease. N.B.—If liked, the bread could be toasted before the fire instead of fried ; in which case the bread should be cut into sippets after it is toasted. 30. For serving we put the slices of meat on a hot dish, in the centre, strain the sauce over them and put the sippets *of bread round the edge of the dish.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Meat Fritters. 29 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 2. MEAT FRITTERS. Average cost of “ Meat Fritters. INGREDIENTS d. Slices of cold meat 6 4 oz. of flour f 1 tablespoonful of salad oil ) Salt J 2 eggs 2 Dripping for frying - "IS Time required, about half an hour [and one hour for the batter to rise). Now we will show you how to make Meat Fritters, i.e. frying meat in batter. 1. We put four ounces of flour and half a saltspoonful of salt into a basin. 2. We add a tablespoonful of salad oil and mix the flour into a smooth paste. N.B.—We must be careful that the oil is quite sweet. If the oil is objected to, one ounce of melted butter can be used instead. 3. We now stir in smoothly by degrees, a quarter of a pint of tepid water; we must be careful that there are no lumps. 4. We break t*wo eggs, put the whiles on a plate (the yolks we should put in a cup, as they will not be required for present use). 5. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the whites of the eggs, and whip them to a stiff froth with a knife. 6. We stir the whipped whites of the eggs lightly into the batter. N.B.—In winter, clean snow might be used in the batter instead of the whites of eggs. N.B.—This batter might be made without the whites of eggs, in which case it should be mixed with half a pint of beer, instead uf the water, but the batter made with beer will not rise as much as when eggs are used. N.B.—The beer will not taste after the batter is fried.30 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We stand the batter aside for one hour to rise, or until required for frying, but it should not stand longer than one hour. 8. We put half a poiuid of clarified dripping (see Lesson •on “ Frying ”) into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat. 9. We take some cold meat, and cut it up into thin slices. N.B.—Cold boiled, or roast pork, or boiled bacon is very nice fried in batter. 10. When the batter has risen and the fritters are re- quired for use, we stir the batter lightly with a spoon, so as to be sure that there are no lumps settled at the bottom. 11. When the dripping is quite hot and smoking, we take the slices of meat, dip them in the batter so that they are quite covered, and then drop them into the hot fat. N.B.—We must not put in too many slices at a time, as they should not touch each other. 12. We must turn them over so that they are fried a nice brown on both sides. 13. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate. 14. As the fritters are fried, we take them carefully out of the fat with a perforated spoon, and put them on the .paper to drain off the grease. N.B.—We must be careful to skim the fat from time to time, or the little loose pieces of batter will burn and spoil the fat. N.B.—Slices of apple or orange can be fried in this batter in the same way, only that the batter should be sweetened, and sugar sprinkled over the fritters when they are fried. N.B.—Fish can be fried in batter the same way, only that the batter is usually made with beer instead of white of egg. 15. For serving, we turn thfritters on to a hot dish.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Goblet Pie. 31 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 3. GOBLET PIE. Average cost of a “ Goblet Pie!' INGREDIENTS. Any scraps of cold meat 2 tablespoonsful of chopped suet .. 2 do. of moist sugar .... 2 do. of currants 2 do. of plums 2 do. of chopped apples £ lb. of flour 5 of a teaspoonful of baking-powder 1 oz. of dripping 7f Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a “ Goblet Pie." N.B.—This pie is made with equal quantities of ingredients. ' 1. We take any scraps of cold meat (the smallest scraps would do that would not do for anything else), put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible (there should be about two tablespoonsful of chopped meat). 2. We take about two ounces of suet, put it on a board, cut away the skin, and chop it up very finely (there should be about two tablespoonsfitl). 3. We take two small apples, peel them, cut out the core, and chop them up finely (there should be about two table- spoonsful). 4. We take two tablespoonsful of plums, stone them, and chop them up in small pieces. 5. We take two tablespoonsful of currants, wash them, dry them in a cloth, and pick them over. 6. We put all these ingredients into a basin with tzvo tablespoonsful of moist sugar, and mix them all well together with a spoon. 7. We then turn the mixture into a small pie dish. d. .. 3 .. 1* .. h •• i A • * 2 h 1 3 { 4 A • • 232 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin, and mix into it a few grains of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of baking powder. 9. We take one ounce of clarified dripping and rub it well and lightly into the flour with our hands, until it resembles sifted bread crumbs. 10. We now add to it sufficient water to mix it into a stiff paste. 11. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 12. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to the shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 13. We wet the edge of the pie dish with water. 14. We take a knife, dip it in flotir, and cut a strip of the paste, the width of the edge of the pie dish, and place it round the edge of the dish. 15. We should cut this strip of paste from round the edge of the paste, leaving the centre piece rather larger than the top of the pie dish. 16. We wet the edge of the paste with water. 17. We take the remaining piece of paste, and place it over the pie dish, pressing the edges together with our thumb. N.B.—We must be very careful not to break the paste. 18. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and trim off all the rough edges of thepaste, round the edge of the dish. 19. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb, to keep it in its proper place. 20. We make a little hole with the knife, in the centre of the pie to let the steam out while the pie is baking. 21. We put the pie into the oven (the heat should rise to 220°), to bake for half an hour. It is then ready for servingLessons on Re-Cooking Afectl,—Curvy, 33 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 4. CURRY. Average cost of a “ Curry" (made with cold meat). INGREDIENTS. Scraps of cold meat g* 2 oz. of clarified dripping .!!!!!!!!!!!!!” r (or butter 2d.) 1 apple ^ ± 1 onion !*!!!!!!! 1 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder \ 2 1 dessertspoonful of flour ( T Salt j 1 9 Time required, about three quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Curry. 1. We put two ounces of clarified dripping, or butter into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat. 2. We take one onion, peel it, put it on a board, and chop it up as finely as possible. F ?• yhu” the driMingis quite hot, we put in the chopped onion to brown; we must be careful it does not burn. 4. We should shake the saucepan occasionally to prevent the onion from sticking to the bottom. F 5. We take the cold meat and cut it up into small pieces. 6. We take 6ne small'apple, peel it, take out the core and chop it up very finely on a board. v t^ie °!uony 1S sufficiently brown, we should strain it off, and pour the dripping back into the saucepan. N.B. We should put the browned onion on a plate. an?\ ^in°WuPUt the pieces of cold meat into the saucepan, and let them brown on both sides. r . ^&one dessertspoonful of curry powder, one dessert- spoonful of flour, the chopped apple,, and a little salt, accord- ing to taste.34 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We now pour in half a pint of cold water, and put back the browned onion. N.B.—If the onion had been left in while the meat was browning, it would have got burnt. 11. We should stir smoothly and carefully until it boils, and then move it to the side of the fire to simmer for half an hour. 12. The lid should be off the saucepan as the sauce is to reduce. 13. For serving we take the meat out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish and pour the sauce over it. N.B. —Boiled rice should be served with the curry (see Lesson on “ Rice").Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Shepherd's Pie, 35 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 5. SHEPHERD’S PIE. Average cost of a “ Shepherd's Pie!' INGREDIENTS. Scraps of cold meat I small onion 'Pepper and salt II lb. of potatoes 1 oz. of butter 1 tablespoonful of milk Time required, about an hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Shepherd's Pie. 1. We take one and a half pound of potatoes, wash them, and boil them as described (see “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 1). N.B.—This quantity of potato will cover a quart pie dish. N.B.—Any remains of cold potatoes should be used, instead of boiling fresh ones. 2. We put one ounce of butter, and one tablespoonful of milky into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We put the boiled potatoes into another saucepan, and mash them up with a fork or spoon. 4. When the milk boils we pour it into the mashed potatoeSy and stir them into a smooth paste. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the potatoes just boil; we must be careful they do not burn. 6. We take any scraps of cold meaty cut them in small pieces, and put them in a pie dish in layers. 7. If there is not much fat with the meat} we should mix a few slices of pork fat with the meat. 8. We take one small onion, peel it, and chop it up as finely as possible on a board. c 236 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We sprinkle each layer of meat with plenty of pepper and salt, and a little of the chopped onion. 10. We fill the dish half full of cold water. N.B.—If there be any cold gravy it would, of course, be better than the water. N.B.—The pie dish should be quite full of meat, and rather heaped in the centre, so as to raise the crust of potato. 11. We take the mashed potato and put it over the top of the meat, smoothing it over neatly with a knife. 12. We take a fork, and mark all over the top of the Potato. N.B.—If liked, the mashed potato might be mixed with half its weight of flour into a dough, to make a more substantial crust; it must be then rolled out with a rolling-pin like pastry. 13. We put the pie dish into the oven, or into a Dutch oven in front of the fire, for half an hour, to brown the crust of potato and warm the meat through, it is then ready for serving.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Fried Rissoles. 37 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 6. FRIED RISSOLES. Average cost of “ Fried Rissoles ” made of cold meat. (This quantity makes about 8). INGREDIENTS. 5 lb. of scraps of cold meat 2 tablespoonsful of chopped suet 2 do. of bread crumbs x do. of chopped parsley § a teaspoonful of chopped herbs, marjoram and thyme 1 egg Crumb of bread Salt and pepper 1 gill of stock \ oz. of flour Use of dripping for frying I I ) d. 1 1 t k 1 1 1! Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Rissoles with cold meat. 1. We put about half a pound of clarified dripping into a saucepan and put it on the fire to heat. 2. We take the scraps of cold meat, and chop them up as finely as possible on a board, when chopped, there should be about two tablespoons fid. 3. We take two ounces of suet, put it on a board, cut away the skin and chop it up as finely as possible. There should be two tablespoonsful. 4. We take a grater and grate somz crumbs of bread on to a piece of paper. N.B.—More than two tablespoonsful of bread crumbs will be required, as the rissoles should be dipped in bread crumbs before they are fried. 5. We take two sprigs of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a cloth. 6. We put the parsley on a board, and chop it up finely; there should be one tablespoonful. 7. We take a sprig of marjoram and a sprig of thyme,38 National Training School for Cookery. take away the stalks, and rub the leaves through a strainer,, or chop them up finely on a board. N.B.—The stalks of the herbs are bitter to taste, and can therefore only be- used for flavouring, and not for eating. 8. We put the meat, suet, and two tablespoonsful of bread crumbs into a basin, and mix them together. 9. We now add the herbs, half an ounce of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt. N.B.—If liked, a little chopped onion or chopped lemon peel might be added. 10. We add one gill of stock to the basin, and mix all' together lightly. 11. We take a board, flour it, and turn the mixture on- to it. 12. We also flour our hands, to prevent the mixture from- sticking. 13. We form the mixture into little balls, and we should sprinkle a little flour over them. 14. We break an egg on to a plate, and beat it very slightly with a knife. 15. We put the balls into the egg, and egg them well all over. 16. We now put them into the bread crumbs and cover them well, but not too thickly. N.B.—We must be careful to finger them as little as possible. 17. We put the rissoles into a frying basket, a few at a time, as they must not touch each other. 18. When the fat in the saucepan is quite hot and smoking, we put in the frying basket, and let the rissoles fry a pale brown. 19. If there is not sufficient fat to cover the rissoles, we must shake the basket occasionally, that they may get fried on all sides alike. N.B.—If there be no frying-basket, we should carefully put the rissoles into the fat with a spoon, and then we must turn them over, so as to get them equally browned. 20. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate. 21. When the rissoles are fried, we turn them carefully on to the paper to drain off the grease. 22. For serving, we put them on a hot dish.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Minced Meat. 39 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 7. MINCED MEAT. Average cost of “ Minced Meat ” with rice or potatoes. INGREDIENTS. d. Scraps of cold meat 3 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ) Pepper and salt j 5 lb. of Patna rice or x lb. of potatoes 13 | oz. of flour ) I3 1 gill of stock ) 4 7i Time required to cook the potatoes, half an hour ; to cook the mince, five minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Mince of cold meat. 1. If the mince is served with rice (see Lesson on “Rice ”), or if with mashed potatoes (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 2. 2. We put any scraps of cold meat on a board, and mince them up with a sharp knife. 3. We put the minced meat, and half an ounce of flour into a saucepan, with one gill of stock, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup) and season it with pepper, and salt to taste. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire, to let the mince just warm through. 5. We should stir it occasionally, to prevent the meat from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. 6. For serving, we turn the mince on to a hot dish, with a border of boiled rice or mashed potato.40 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. i. MULLIGATAWNY. Average cost of “ Mulligatawny Soup ” (3 quarts) made from “ Australian Meat.” INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 lb. tin of Australian calf’s head i o 2 lbs. of Australian mutton i 2 2 apples o 1 2 leeks o 1 2 carrots, 1 turnip o 2 good-sized onions o 1 2 tablespoonsful of flour J 1 tablespoonful of curry powder > o 1 Salt and sugar ) A bouquet garni (of parsley, thyme, mar- j joram and 2 bay leaves) j 5 2 8 Time required, three hours. Now we will show you how to make Mulligatawny Soup. 1. We take a tin of Australian mutton and open it care- fully. 2. We take a spoon and carefully remove all the fat from the top of the meat. N.B.—The fat should only be removed from that part of the meat which is required for immediate use. N.B.—The fat should be clarified, by putting it into boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping. 3. We take two pounds of the mutton out of the tin, put it in a basin with two quarts of warm water. 4. We take two apples, peel them, and put them on a plate. 5. We cut the apples in quarters, cut out the core, and then cut the quarters into slices, and put them into a sauce- pan with two ounces of the clarified fat. 6. We take one turnip and two good-sized onions, peel them, cut them in pieces, and put them in the saucepan. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and give one stir to the vegetables with a wooden spoon.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Mulligatawny. 4 f 8. We take two leeks, wash them well in cold water, and cut off the green tops of the leaves. 9. We cut up the leeks and put them in the saucepan. 10. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them with a knife, cut them in pieces, and put them in the saucepan. 11. We give one stir with a wooden spoon to mix the 1vegetables together, and let them fry for ten minutes. 12. We also add a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram and two bay-leaves, tied tightly together with a piece of string. 13. When the vegetables have fried for ten minutes we take half a pint of the liquor (in which the meat is soaking), pour it into the saucepan, and let it boil and reduce to a quarter of a pint. 14. We should stir the vegetables occasionally. 15. We put two iablcspoonsful of flour and one tablespoon- ful of curry powder into a basin, and mix them into a smooth paste with one gill (quarter of a pint) of the liquor. 16. We stir this mixture into the saucepan with the vegetables. 17. We now put the meat and the remaining liqitor into the saucepan, put the lid on and let it come to the boil. 18. When it boils we should put one saltspoonfid of salt and half a saltspoonfid of moist sugar into the saucepan. 19. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for two hours and a half. 20. We should watch it, and skim it occasionally with a spoon. 21. After that time we strain the soup through a strainer into a basin. 22. We pour the soup back into the saucepan. 23. We open the two pound tin of calf's head, remove .all the fat from the top, and stir the contents of the tin into the soup in the saucepan. 24. For serving we pour the soup into a hot soup-tureen.42 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 2. SAUSAGE ROLLS. Average cost of “ Sausage Rolls ” (about two dozen) made, from “ Australian Mince Meat.” INGREDIENTS. 2 ID. U1 II11IU/C JLIltci , ••••••••••••••••••■••••• | lb. of flour i| £ lb. of dripping 4 1 teaspoonful of baking powder 1 Seasoning > $ 4 sage leaves \ 1 egg 1 Time required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Sausage Rolls. 1. We take a tin of Australian mince meat and open it carefully. 2. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from, the top of the meat. N.B.—The fat should be clarified by putting it into a basin of boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping. 3. We take half a pound of the mincemeat out of the tin, put it in a basin, and season it well with pepper and salt. 4. We take four sage leaves, put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible with a knife. 5. We mix the chopped sage well into the mince meat with a spoon. 6. W‘e put three quarters of'apoundof'flour into another basin. 7. We add to it one teaspoonful of baking powder, salt (as much as would cover a threepenny piece, and half a pound of clarified dripping. 8. We rub the drippingvtAl into the four with our hands.. N.B.—We must mix it thoroughly, and be careful not to leave any lumps.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Sausage Rolls. 43, 9. We add enough water to the flour to make it into a stiff paste. 10. We flour the paste board. 11. We turn the paste out on the board. N.B.—We should divide the paste in two, so as not to handle it too much. 12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out each portion into a thin sheet, about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 13. We cut the paste into pieces about six inches square. 14. We should collect all the scraps of paste (so that none is wasted), fold them together, and roll them out and cut them into squares. N.B.—There should be about two dozen squares of paste. 15. We should put about a tablespoonful of the mince meat into the centre of each square of paste. 16. We fold the paste round the meat, joining it smoothly down the centre, and pressing the ends of the paste together with our finger and thumb. 17. We take a baking tin, grease it well, and place the satis age rolls on it. 18. We break one egg on to a plate, and beat it slightly with a knife. 19. We take a paste brush, dip it in the egg, and paint over the tops of the rolls. 20. We place the tin in a hot oven to bake for 15, minutes. N.B.—We should look at them once or twice, and turn them if necessary, so. that they shall be equally baked. 21. For serving we take the rolls off the tin and plac® them on a hot dish.44 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 3. MEAT PIE. Average cost of a “Meat Pie” (a quart dish) made from Australian mutton or beef and kidneys. INGREDIENTS. s. d. i| lb. of Australian mutton or beef o io| \ lb. do. kidneys o 3^ f lb. of flour o i lb. of dripping ) 2 Pepper and salt j 1 5i Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pie. 1. We take a tin of Australian mutton or beef, and open it carefully. 2. We take a spoon, and carefully remove the fat from the part of the meat which is required for use. N.B.—All the fat should not be removed, as the meat not required for immediate use will keep better with the fat on the top; but a tin of Atcstralian meat will not keep more than two or three days after it has once been opened. 3. We take a tin of kidneys, open it carefully, and remove the fat from the part of the meat which is required for use. N.B.—The fat should be clarified, by putting it into boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping. 4. We take one and a half pound of the meat (jmutton or ■beef) out of the tin, and cut it neatly into nice sized pieces, -and season the pieces with pepper and salt. 5. We take half a pound of the kidneys, and cut them up in pieces. 6. We put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, with salt (to cover thinly a threepenny piece). 7. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping and rub it well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Meat Pie. 45 8. We add sufficient water to make it into a stiff pastes it will take rather less than one gill (quarter of a pint). 9. We take a board, flour it, and put the paste on it. 10. We take a quart pie-dish and fill it with the pieces of meat and kidney. 11. We take a little of the jelly out of the tin and put it in the dish with the meat, to make the gravy. 12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to the shape of the top of the pie-dish, only rather larger. N.B.—We should keep our hands floured, to prevent the paste sticking. 13. We take a knife, dip it in the jlour, and cut off a strip of the paste about one inch wide. N.B.—This strip should be cut off from round the edge of thqpaste, leaving the centre piece the size of the top of the pie-dish. 14. We wet the edge of the pie-dish with water, and place the strip of paste round the edge. 15. We now wet the strip of paste on the pie-dish. 16. We take the piece of paste, lay it over the top of the pie-dish, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 17. We take a knife, flour it, and trim off the rough edges of the paste. 18. We take the knife, and with the back of the blade, we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing it with our thumb, to keep it in its proper place. 19. We should make a small hole in the centre of the paste, to let out the steam, whilst it is baking. 20. We can ornament the top of the pie with the remains of the paste, according to taste, and biush over the top of the pie with some white of egg. 21. We put the pie into a quick oven to bake for half an hour. 22. We must look at it occasionally, to see that it does not burn. After that time it is ready for serving..46 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 4. RISSOLES. Average cost of “ Rissoles,” made from Australian meat. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of Australian meat | lb. of flour 3 oz. of dripping Salt and pepper | A few sprigs of dried herbs j 1 egg 2 oz. of vermicelli or some bread crumbs .... i Clarified dripping (for frying) j Time required, 07ie hour. Now we will show you how to make Rissoles of Australian meat. 1. We put one pound of clarified dripping into a saucepan and put it on the fire to heat. N.B.—We must watch it and be careful it does not bum. 2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin with salt (to cover thinly a threepenny piece), and three ounces of clarified dripping. 3. We rub the dripping well into th a flour with our hands, until it is quite a powder. 4. We then add a little cold water and mix it into a stiff paste. 5. We flour a board and turn the paste out on to it. 6. We take a tin of Australian meat, open it carefully, and with a spoon remove all the fat off the part of the meat required for immediate use. N.B.—The /at should be clarified by putting it into boiling water; and when cold can then be used for dripping. 7. We take half a pound of meat out of the tin and scrape off as much of the jelly as possible. d. 3h 1 i 1Lessons on Australian Meat.—Rissoles. 47 8. We put the meat on a board and chop it up as finely as possible. N.B.—Minced meat might be used, which would not of course require chopping up. 9. We take a small bunch of dried herbs and rub the leaves into a powder. N.B.—The stalks of the herbs need not be thrown away, as they can be used in soups for flavouring. 10. We sprinkle the herbs over the meat, also a little pepper and salt, and a little flour. 11. We take a rolling pin and roll out the paste as thin as possible. 12. We cut the paste into rounds with a cutter (which should be dipped in flour); the rounds should be rather larger than the top of a tea-cup. 13. We put some meat into the centre of each round of paste. 14. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it up slightly with a knife. 15. We take a paste-brush, dip it in the egg, and just wet the edges of the paste with the egg. 16. We fold the paste carefully over the meat, pressing the edges together with our thumbs. 17. We take two ounces of vermicelli and rub it between our hands, crushing it up as finely as possible. 18. We put this crushed vermicelli on to a piece of paper. 19. We put the rissoles into the plate of egg, and egg them well all over with the brush. 20. We then turn them into the crushed vermicelli, and cover them well with it but not too thickly. N.B.—We must be careful to finger them as little as possible, so as not to rub off any of the egg or vermicelli, or the rissoles will burst while frying. N.B.—Bread crumbs might be used instead of vermicelli. 21. We take a frying basket and put in the rissoles ; we must be careful that they do not touch each other. 22. When the fat in the saucepan is quite hot and48 National Training School for Cookery. smoking-, we put in the frying-basket and let the rissoles fry for a minute or two until they have become a pale brown. 23. We take a piece of kitchen paper and put it on a plate. 24. As the rissoles are fried we turn them from the fry- ing-basket on to the piece of paper to drain off the grease. 25. We then put them on a hot dish and they are ready for serving.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Savoury Hash. 49 AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 5. SAVOURY HASH. Average cost of a “ Savoury Hash” made from Aus- tralian Mutton. INGREDIENTS. s. d. if lb. of Australian mutton o io| 1 oz. of butter o i J oz. of flour J £ an onion > o o| 1 sprig of thyme and marjoram ) 2 sprigs of parsley i 2 Pepper and salt ) ° °* 1 dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup.... o o| 1 of Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Savoury Hash. 1. We put one ounce of butter into a saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 2. We take half an onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 3. We put the onion into the butter. 4. We also stir in half an ounce of flour, and let all fry for a minute or two to brown. 5. We take a tin of Australian mutton, open it carefully, and remove the fat from the part of the meat required for immediate use. N.B.—We should clarify the fat by putting it into boiling water, and when it is cold it can be used as dripping. 6. We take one and a half pound of the mutton out of the tin. 7. If all the meat is required for present use, we should turn it all out of the tin, and we should then rinse out the tin with half a pint of warm water to make the gravy for the hash. N.B.—If all the meat has not been taken out of the tin, we should take some of the jelly out of the tin, and melt it in half a pint of warm water to make the gravy, D50 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We pour this gravy into the saucepan, with the flour and butter, and stir well until it boils and thickens. 9. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep warm. 10. We take a sprig or two of parsley (wash it and dry it in a cloth), and a sprig of marjoram and thyme, take away the stalks, and chop up the leaves finely on a board. (There should be about a dessertspoonful.) 11. We cut up the meat into neat pieces, and sprinkle over each piece some of the chopped herbs, and a little pepper and salt. 12. We put the meat into the saucepan of sauce, and let it just warm through for about five minutes. 13. We now pour into the sauce a dessertspoonfitl of mushroom ketchup. 14. For serving we put the meat on a hot dish, and strain the sauce over it.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Mince. 51 AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 6. MINCE. Average cost of “Mince” served with “Mashed Potatoes? INGREDIENTS. i lb. of Australian mines meat r\lb. of potatoes i oz. of butter i tablespoonful of milk. i tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup Salt and pepper d. i icf Time required, about forty mimttes. Now we will show you how to make a Mince, served with Mashed Potatoes. 1. We take one pound and a half of potatoes, wash them well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut out the eyes and any black specks about the potato. 3. We put them into a saucepan with cold water, enough to cover them, and sprinkle over them one teaspoonful of salt. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil the potatoes for, from twenty mimttes to half an hoitr. 5. We should take a fork and put it into the potatoes, to feel if the centre is quite tender. 6. When they are sufficiently boiled, we drain off all the water, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, with the lid half on, to steam the potatoes. 7. We put one ounce of butter, and one tablespoonful of milk into a small saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 8. When the potatoes have become quite dry, we should take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table.52 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We should mash them up smoothly with a spoon or fork. N.B.—The best way to mash potatoes is to rub them through a wire sieve , we can then be sure there are no lumps left. 10. When the milk boils we should pour it into the mashedpotatoes, and stir it till it is quite smooth. 11. We add pepper and salt according to taste. 12. We stand the saucepan of mashed potatoes by the side of the fire to keep warm until required for use. 13. We take a tin of Australian mince meat, open it care- fully, and remove all the fat from the part of the meat required for immediate use. N.B.—This fat should be clarified by putting it into boiling water, and when cold it can be used as dripping. 14. We take one pound of the mince out of the tin, put it in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and stir it into a paste. 15. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the mince just warm through. N.B.—We should be very careful that it does not boil, or the meat will get hardened. 16. For serving we make a wall of the mashed potatoes round the edge of a hot dish, and we pour the mince in the centre; we should stand the dish in front of the fire to colour the potato a pale brown.Cooking Meat.—{Entrees).—Indian Curry. 53 ENTREES. Lesson No. i. CURRY. Average cost of a " Curry {Indian) of Rabbit I &c. INGREDIENTS. 1 rabbit, is. 9d., or chicken, etc Half an ounce of coriander seed ' 2 cloves of garlic 1 dessertspoonful of turmerick 8 berries of red pepper I 2 inches of the stick of cinnamon / 6 cardamums A small piece of green ginger, about the size of a nut < small onions [ Salt } 3 ounces of fresh butter.. Half a pint of cream .... The juice of half a lemon s. d. 2 9 o 6 o 2 0 Si 1 o o of Time required, about two hours. 4 Now we will show you how to make a Curry. 1. We take a rabbit [which has been skinned and pro- perly prepared for cooking] and put it on a board. 2. We cut it up in the same way as for carving, taking care that the pieces are nearly all of one size. N.B.—Chicken, veal, and other meats would serve the purpose for curry as well as rabbit. 3. We take a quarter of an ounce of coriander seed’ put it into the mortar, and pound it very fine with a pestle. 4. We take the pounded seed out of the mortar, and put it on a piece of paper ; we must scrape out the mortar cleanly so that none be lost. 5. We take two cloves of garlic, peel them with a sharp knife and place them in the mortar. 6. We also put into the mortar a dessertspoonful of tur- merick.54 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We add eight berries of red pepper and one inch of the stick of cinnamon. 8. We put in four cardamums. 9. We take a piece of green ginger about the size of a nut and slice it very thinly. 10. We take three small onions and peel off the two outer skins. 11. We divide the onions into quarters and place them and the sliced ginger in the mortar. 12. We must now pound up all these spices and the onions as finely as possible with the pestle. 13. We now add to them the pounded coriander seed and mix them all up together. 14. We turn all this pounded fnixture out of the mortar into a half-pint basin. 15. We take a teacupful of cold water and rinse out the mortar, and then pour the water on to the pounded mixture in the basin. 16. We take the pieces of rabbit and wash them in cold # water. 17. We take the pieces of rabbit out of the cold water and place them on a sieve to drain. 18. We take a stew-pan and put in it three ounces of fresh butter. 19. We put the stew-pan on the fire to melt the butter. N.B.—We must be careful that it does not burn. 20. We take tzvo small onions and peel off the two outer skins. 21. We divide the onions in half down the centre, and cut them up so that the slices are in half circles. 22. We put these sliced onions into the melted butter, we also add two cardamums, and let them fry a pale brown. 23. We then take the onions carefully out of the stew- pan with a slice, and place them on a piece of whitey-brown paper to drain off the grease.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.)—Indian Cttrry. 55 24. We now take the basin of spices, and add as much cold water as will make the basin three parts full. 25. We add to the basin of spices a small dessertspoon- fid of salt. 28. We now pour all the contents of the basin into the melted butter in the stew-pan, to cook for about twenty minutes, stirring well all the time with a wooden spoon. N.B.—To test when the spices are sufficiently cooked, you should smell them, and if they are quite done, no particular spice should predo- minate. 27. We now place the pieces of rabbit in the stew-pan to brown. 28. We must turn the pieces of rabbit occasionally so that they get brown on all sides. 29. We now pour into the stew-pan a teacupful of cold water to make the meat tender. 30. We put the lid on the stew-pan, and let it all cook steadily for about an hour. 31. We must watch it carefully, and stir it perpetually. N.B.—A good deal of stirring is required. 32. We must add by degrees a teacupful of cold water, to wash down the bits of spice which will stick to the sides of the stew-pan. 33. We must also add by degrees, half a pint of cream, or good milk \water might even be used instead] and mix it well together with a wooden spoon. N.B.—We must be careful that no pieces of meat or spices stick to the bottom of the pan. 34. We now take half the fried onions, chop them up finely, and add them to the curry. 35. We then put into the mortar five coriander seeds, and one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and pound them well together with a pestle. 36. When the rabbit is quite done, we take the pieces out with a fork, arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and pour the gravy round. 37. We then sprinkle over the rabbit the remainder of56 National Training School for Cookery. the fried onions, the pounded cinnamon, and coriander seed. 38. We take a fresh lemon, cut it in half, and squeeze all the juice of it through a strainer over the rabbit, and it is ready for serving. N.B —Boiled Patna rice should be served with the above curry. )Cooking Meat.—('Entries.) Quenelles of Veal. 57 ENTREES. Lesson No. 2. QUENELLES OF VEAL Average cost of “ Quenelles of Veal {about 12) and the Sauced INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of the fillet of veal i 3 2 oz. of butter o 2 2% oz. of flour o Oj f pint of 2nd white stock 0 3f 2 eggs o 2 1 dozen button mushrooms o 6 1 gill of cream o 6 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice ) x Salt j 0 °a 2 xi| Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Quenelles of Veal. 1. We put one ounce of butter and two ounces of flour into .a stew-pan and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 2. We add one gill (quarter of a pint) of second white stock. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir well until it boils and thickens, and leaves the sides of the stewpan. 4. We now pour this mixture or panada (as it is called) on to a plate. 5. We stand the plate aside to cool. 6. We take one pound of the fillet of roeal and put it on a board. 7. We take a sharp knife, cut away all the skin and fat, and cut up the meat into small pieces. 8. We put these pieces of veal into a mortar, and pound i:hem well with the pestle. 9. We place a wire sieve over the plate ; we take this58 National Training School for Cookery. pounded meat and pass it through the sieve, rubbing it with a wooden spoon. 10. When the panada on the plate is cold, we put half of it, and one egg in the mortar, and pound it to a cream. 11. We then add half the meat, and salt and pepper to- taste, and pound all well together with the pestle. 12. We put into the mortar the remainder of the panada break in another egg, and add the rest of the meat. 13. We pound these well together again with the pestle. 14. We turn the mixture from the mortar into a basin. 15. We take a saute-pan and butter it inside. 16. We take a dessertspoon, and fill it with the mixture,, shaping it to the form of an oval with a knife, which we must dip occasionally into hot water to prevent the mixture from sticking. 17. We take another dessertspoon, and dip it into boiling water. 18. We scoop the quenelle from the first spoon into the second spoon, and put it into the saute-pan, and continue- doing this till we have used up all the mixture. 19. We must now make the sauce, to be served with the quenelles. 20. We take a stewpan, and put in one ounce of butter and three quarters of an ounce of flour. 21. We put the stewpan on the fire, and mix them together with a wooden spoon. 22. We take one dozen of button mushrooms, cut off the end of the stalks, and wash them well in cold water. 23. We take them out of the water, put them upon a board, and peel them carefully with a sharp knife. 24. We pour half a pint of second white stock to the mixture in the stewpan, and add the mu,shroom peelmgs for flavouring. 25. We must stir well until it boils and thickens. 26. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire with the- lid half on, and let it simmer for ten minutes.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Quenelles of Veal' 59 27. We then take a spoon, and skim off all the butter from the top of the sauce. 28. We now stir into the sauce one gill of cream, and stand the stewpan aside to keep warm, until required for use. 29. We take the peeled mushrooms and put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 30. We squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon juice and pour in one tablespoonful of cold zvater. 31. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them to the boil. 32. We now pour boiling zvater carefully into the saute- pan, enough to cover the quenelles. N.E.—We must be careful to pour the water very gently into the saute-pan or the quenelles will be spoiled. 33. We put the saute-pan on the fire to poach the quenelles' for ten minutes. N.B.—We must watch them and occasionally turn them carefully with a spoon. 34. When the quenelles are done, we lift them carefully out of the water, and lay them on a cloth to drain off the water. 35. We must arrange them tastily in a circle on a hot dish. 36. We fill in the centre of the dish with the boiled mush- rooms. N.B.—Peas (see “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 9) or spinach (see "Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8) may be served with them instead, according to taste. 37. We take the stewpan off the fire, and pour the sauce through a strainer over the quenelles. They are now ready for serving.6o National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 3. BRAISED FILLETS OF BEEF. Average cost of “Braised Fillets of Beefl' INGREDIENTS. bay leaf 2 young carrots 1 onion, and a J of a stick of celery A pint of good stock 1 lb. of fillet of beef J lb. of the fat of bacon A bouquet garni of parsley, thyme, and } o x O I Time required (the stock should be maae the day before), about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to lard and braise Fillets of Beef. 1. We take one pound of fillet of beef (cut from the under- cut of the sirloin), and put it on a board. 2. We take a sharp knife, and cut the beef into small round fillets, to about the size of the top of a breakfast cup, and about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, and trim them neatly. 3. We take a strip of the fat of bacon (nearest the rind is best, as it is harder), about one inch wide. 4. We take a sharp knife and cut up this piece of bacon into little strips, an inch long, and one-eighth of an inch in width and thickness. 5. We take each fillet and hold it in a clean cloth. 6. We take a larding needle with a little strip of bacon in it, and lard each fillet neatly in regular rows ; until one side of the fillet is entirely covered with strips of bacon. 7. When we have larded all the fillets, we lay them care- fully in a clean saute-pan. 8. We add a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf\ all tied neatly and tightly together.Cooking Meat.—('Entries.) Braised Fillets of Beef. 61 9. We take two young carrots, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them in halves. 10. We take an onion and peel it carefully. 11. We add these vegetables and a quarter of a stick of celery to the fillets in the saute-pan. 12. We now pour in a pi?it of good stock, put the saute- pan on the fire, and baste the fillets continually. N.B.—The stock must not cover the meat. 13. We take a piece of kitchen paper, and cut a round to the size of the saute-pan and butter it. 14. As soon as the stock boils, we lay this round of paper on the fillets in the saute-pan. N.B.—This paper is to prevent the meat browning too quickly. 15. We must lift the paper every now and then, when we require to baste the fillets. 16. We should put the saute-pan into a very hot oven, to brown the fillets. 17. We let the pint of stock reduce to a half glaze, which will take about half an hour. 18. We must watch it, frequently raise the paper, and baste the fillets with the stock. N.B.—If the fillets are not brown enough, we take a salamander and heat it in the fire. 19. We hold the salamander over the fillets, to brown them a nice colour. 20. We take the fillets carefully out of the saute-pan, and arrange them on a hot dish in a circle, on a border of mashed potatoes. (See “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 2.) N.B.—We must stand this dish on the hot plate, or near the fire, to keep warm until the sauce is ready. N.B.—The centre of the dish may be filled in with mixed vegetables, i.e., peas and beans, which should be cut in the shape of dice, carrots and turnips cut with a cutter, to the size of the peas. 21. We put the saute-pan on the fire, and let the sauce reduce to a half glaze. 22. We then strain the glaze round the meat and it is ready for serving.€2 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 4. MUTTON CUTLETS. Average cost of “ Mutton Cutlets.” INGREDIENTS. s. d. 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton.. 30 Bread crumbs o 1 1 egg o 1 Salt and pepper o o^ 3 ounces of clarified butter o 3 3 5k Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to fry Mutton Cutlets. 1. We . take three pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton and put it on a board. 2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone, leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 3. We saw off the chine bone, which lies at the back of the cutlets. 4. We joint each cutlet with the chopper. 5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet close to • the bone. 6. We take a cutlet-bat, wet it, and beat each cutlet to about half an inch in thickness. 7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch of the rib bone bare. 8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. N.B.—The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be clarified and used as dripping. 9. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of paper. 10. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve.Cooking Meat.—(Entriesi) Mutton Cutlets. 63 11. We take ^ and beat it on a plate with a knife. 12. We season the cutlets on both sides with pepper and salt. 13. We lay them in the egg, and egg them well all over with a brush. 14. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover them well. N.B.—We should be careful to finger them as little as possible, and lift them by the bare bone. 15. We take a saute-pan, and pour in it three ounces of melted clarified butter, lard, or clarified dripping (see Lesson “ Frying ”). 16. We now lay in the cutlets, with the bones to the centre of the saute-pan. 17. We must now put the saute-pan on a very quick fire for about seven minutes. 18. We must watch and turn the cutlets when they have become a light brown, so as to fry them the same colour on both sides. 19. We place a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 20. When the cutlets are done, we take them carefully out with a fork, and lay them on the paper to drain off the grease. N.B. —We should be careful not to stick the fork into the meat (or the gravy- will run out), but into the fat. 21. For serving, we arrange them nicely on a dish, in a circle, one leaning over the other ; the centre may be filled with any vegetable according to taste.64 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 5. CHAUD FROID OF CHICKEN Average cost of “ Chaud Froid of Chicken.” INGREDIENTS. 1 chicken | a pint of white sauce ...;. 1 gill of cream 2 tablespoonsful of aspic jelly Chopped pieces of aspic jelly Mixed vegetables 1 gill of mayonnaise sauce... s. d. 2 9 o 8| o 6 o 9 o 55 6 6| Time required, about one hour and three-quarters. Now we will show you how to make Chaud froid of Chicken. 1. We put half a pint of white sauce (see “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 1), in a stewpan. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and stir well with a wooden spoon till the sauce is reduced to one gill (or quarter of a pint) 3. We then add one gill (or quarter of a pint) of creamy and stir again until it just boils. 4. We take a tammy sieve and stand it over a basin. 5. We take the stewpan off the fire and pass the contents through the sieve into the basin. 6. When it is all passed through into the basin, we stir in two tablespoonsful of aspic jelly (see “Jelly,” Lesson No. 2). N.B.—This aspic jelly should be made with chicken as well as veal. 7. We take a cold roast chicken (see “ Trussing a Fowl for Roasting ”), and put it on a board. N.B.—The chicken must be young, as the flesh should be as white as possible. 8. We cut it up in the same way as, for carving, takingCooking Meat.—(Entries) Chaud Froid of Chicken. 65 care that the pieces are all of one size. We must remove the skin and neatly trim each piece. 9. We take these pieces of chicken and dip them in the sauce, covering them well over. 10. We stand a drainer over a dish. 11. We place the pieces of chicken on the drainer, and let them remain until the sauce is set over each piece. 12. For serving we arrange the pieces of chicken on chopped aspic jelly (see “Jelly/’ Lesson No. 2,) in a circle on a dish. 13. The centre should be filled in with mixed vegetables, i.e., cooked potato, carrot, and beet-root, stamped out with a vegetable cutter, cooked French beans, cut to the shape of dice, and green peas, all mixed together, with two table- spoonsful of mayonnaise sauce. (See “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 3.) K66 National Training School for Cookery, ENTREES. Lesson No. 6. VEAL CUTLETS. Average cost of “ Grilled or Fried Veal Cutlets.” INGREDIENTS, 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of veal.... Savory thyme ) A very little lemon rind J i bunch of parsley .. ) i ounce of butter i teaspoonful of lemon juice i egg Pepper and salt 1 Bread crumbs j j. d. 3. c o of o I O 0£ o I C I | lb. of bacon for rolls 3 4 o 6 3 IO Time required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to grill Veal Cutlets. 1. We take three pounds of the best end of the neck of veal, or veal cutlet, and put it on a board. 2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone, leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 3. We saw off the chine bone, which lies at the back of the cutlets. 4. We joint each cutlet with the chopper. 5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet close to the bone, so as to get an extra cutlet between each bone. 6. We take a cutlet bat and beat each cutlet to about half an inch in thickness. 7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch of the rib bone bare. 8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. N.B.—The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be clarified, and used for dripping.Lessons on Cooking Meat,—[Entries.) Veal Cutlets. 67 9. We take a little savoury thyme, put it on a board, and chop it up very finely (the thyme, when chopped, should fill a saltspoon). 10. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it in cold •water, and dry it in a cloth. 11. We chop this parsley up very finely, on a board. 12. We put one ounce of butter on a kitchen plate, and put it in the oven to melt. 13. When the butter is melted, we add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and the chopped thyme, and parsley. 14. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth. 15. We take a grater, and just give one grate of the lemon rind, over the other ingredients. 16. We add one egg and pepper and salt to taste, and beat all up together with a knife. 17. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of paper. 18. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. 19. We dip each cutlet into the plate, and cover them all over with the mixture. 20. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover them well. N.B.—We should finger them as little as possible. 21. We take a gridiron and hold it to the fire to warm. 22. We arrange the cutlets on the gridiron. 23. We place the gridiron in front of a bright fire, but not too near, or the bread crumbs will burn before the cutlets are sufficiently cooked. 24. We should then let them grill for about ten minutes, and when they have become a pale brown on one side, we should turn the gridiron so as to brown them on both sides alike. 25. For serving, we arrange the cutlets on a wall of ■mashed potatoes, (see “Vegetables/’ Lesson No. 2) in a circle on a hot dish, one leaning over the other; the centre68 National Training School for Cookery. may be filled in with rolls of bacon, (see below) and with a thick brown sauce (see “Sauces,” Lesson No. 2). For Rolls of Bacon. 1. We cut some thin slices of bacony about two inches wide, and about four inches in length. 2. We roll up these strips of bacon. 3. We take a skewer and run it through the centre of each roll of bacon. 4. We place this skewer, with the bacon, on a tin and put it in the oven for six minutes. 5. For serving, we take the rolls of bacon off the skewer, and arrange them in the centre of the cutlets, as described above.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Fricassee of Chicken. 69 ENTREES. Lesson No. 7. FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. Average cost of a “ Fricassee of Chicken.” INGREDIENTS. j. d. 1 young chicken 2 9 x small carrot ' £ an onion 1 stick of celery e or 3 sprigs of parsley t sprig of thyme \ o 1} 1 bay leaf [ 2 cloves 6 peppercorns 1 blade of mace J pint of second white stock .. o 5I 1 oz. of butter o i~ oz. of flour o O4- 2 dozen of button mushrooms \ Fried bread j 1 0 1 gill of cream o 6 4 n£ Time reqitircd, about one hour and a half. Average cost of a “ Fricassee of Cold Chicken.” INGREDIENTS- j. d. Some cold chicken, \ one .... 1 4! | a carrot ' \ of an onion 2 a stick of celery \ o 1 A bouquet garni, of parsley, ( thyme, and bay-leaf ) 1 gill of cream o 6 1 clove j 3 peppercorns ; o Of 5 a blade of mace ) 1 pint of good white stock .... o \ an oz. of butter 1 L 1 oz. of flour ) 0 °2 1 dozen button mushrooms .... o 6 Fried bread 1 , Salt / 0 3 x| Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Fricassee of Chicken. 1. We take a young chicken, clean it, draw it (see “ Trussing a Fowl for Roasting/’ from Note i to Note 12), and skin it. 2. We cut the chicken into joints, and put them in a basin of cold water for about ten minutes. 3. After that time we take the pieces of chicken out of the water and diy them in a clean cloth. 4. We take one small carrot, wash and scrape it clean, and cut it into slices. 5. We take half an onion and peel it. 6. We take one stick of celery and two or three sprigs of parsley, and wash them in cold water.70 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We put these vegetables into a stewpan. 8. We add to them one sprig of thyme, one bay leaf \ two cloves, six peppercorns, and one blade of mace. 9. We now put in the pieces of chicken, and add one pint and a half of second white stock. 10. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil gently for about half an hour. 11. When the pieces of chicken are quite done, we take . them out of the stewpan, wash them in a basin of cold water, and dry them in a cloth. 12. We strain the stock from the stewpan into the basin. 18. We take two dozen of button mushrooms, cut off the ends of the stalks, wash them in cold water, and peel them. 14. We take the peeled mushrooms, and put them into the stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 15. We squeeze over them a teaspoonfid of lemon juicey and pour in a iablespoonftd of cold water. 16. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them to the boil. 17. We then take the stewpan off the fire and turn them on to a plate. 18. We wash out the stewpan, and then put in it one ounce of butter. 19. We put the stewpan on the fire to melt the bidter. 20. We then add one and a half ounce of flour to the butter, stirring it well with a wooden spoon. 21. We now remove all the grease from the chicken stock> and add it and the trimmings of the mushrooms to the stewpan, and stir well until it boils. 22. We must now move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes. The cover of the stewpan should be half on. 23. After that time we take a spoon and carefully skim off all the butter that will have risen to the top of the sauce. 24. We now put the stewpan over the fire to boil, andCooking Meat.-—{Entries.) Fricassee of Chicken. 71 let the sauce reduce to about one pint, and then add one gill of cream. 25. We take the pieces of chicken and put them in another stewpan, with the two dozen of button mushrooms. 28. When the sauce is sufficiently reduced, we strain it over the chicken. 27. We then stand the stewpan in a saucepan of hot water over the fire until the chicken is quite hot. 28. For serving, we arrange the fricassee of chicken on a hot dish, with fried bread (as described in “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8, Note 13 to Note 17). Now we will show you how to make a Fricassee of Cold Chicken. 1. We take some cold roast or boiled chicken. 2. We cut the chicken up into neat pieces, and take away the skin. 3. We put one pint of good white stock (see “ Lesson on Stock ”), and the chicken bones into a stewpan. 4. We take half a carrot, wash and scrape it clean, and cut it into slices. 5. We take a quarter of an onion and peel it. 6. We take half a stick of celery and wash it in cold water. 7. We put these vegetables into the stewpan. 8. We add to them a bouquet garni (consisting of a sprig of parsley, one sprig of thyme, and one bay leaf tied tightly together), one clove, three peppercorns, and half a blade of mace. 9. We put the stewpan on the fire and let it boil for twenty minutes. 10. After that time we strain the stock into a basin.72 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We take one dozen of button mushrooms, cut off the end of the stalks, wash them in cold water, and peel them. 12. We take the peeled mushrooms and put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 13. We squeeze over them a teaspoonfid of lemon juice, and pour in a tablespoonful of cold water. 14. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them to the boil. 15. We then take the stewpan off the fire and turn them on to a plate. 16. We put half an ounce of butter into a stewpan. 17. We put the stewpan on the fire. When the butter is melted we put in one ounce of flour, stirring it well with a wooden spoon. 18. We now add the chicken stock, and the mushroom peelings, and stir the sauce well until it boils. 19. We let it boil for ten minutes to cook the flour. 20. After that time we add one gill of cream, and salt to taste. 21. We put the pieces of chicken and the button mush- rooms into another stewpan. 22. We strain the sauce over the chicken, and then stand the stewpan, in a saucepan of hot water, over the fire until the chicken is quite hot. 23. For serving, we arrange the fricassee of chicken on a hot dish, with some fried bread (as described in Vegetables/’ Lesson No. 8, Note 13 to Note 17), put round the edge.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—(Entrd.es)—Beef Olives. 73 ENTREES. Lesson No. 8. BEEF OLIVES. Average cost of “ Beef Olives.” INGREDIENTS. lb. of beef or rump steak, or the fillet | of beef ) 2 oz. of beef suet 3 oz. of bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley £ of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and » marjoram J A little grated lemon rind and nutmeg .. ) Salt and pepper j 1 egg 1 pint of brown sauce or stock s. d. 2 o o i| o o'\ o o| o o\ o Oj 0 I 1 2 Time required, about one hour. 3 6 Now we will show you how to make Beef Olives. 1. We take one pound and a half of beef or rump steak, or the fillet of beef and put it on a board. 2. We cut the beef in slices about half an inch in thick- ness and four inches in length, and beat them out with a wet cutlet bat. N.B.—We should be careful that all the slices are of the same size. 3. We take the trimmings that remain, chop them up very finely, and put them in a basin. 4. We take two ounces of beef suet, and put it on a board. 5. We take a knife and cut away all the skin, and chop the suet up very finely. 6. We stand a wire sieve over a piece of paper. 7. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. (There should be three ounces of bread crumbs) 8. We take a little parsley and chop it up finely. (There should be one teaspoonful of chopped parsley.)74 PSational Training School for Cookery. 9. We take a little thyme and marjoram and chop them up finely. (There should be about a quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and marjoram.) 10. We add all these things (i.e., suet, bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, and marjoram) to the chopped beef in the basin. 11. We also grate about half a teaspoonful of lemon rind,\ and nutmeg (as much as would cover a $d. piece) into the basin. 12. We season it with pepper and salt according to taste, and add one egg; and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 13. We take this mixture out of the basin, and form it into pieces the shape and size of a cork. 14. We roll up each slice of beef, placing a piece of stuffing in the centre. 15. We should tie each roll round with a piece of twine to fasten it securely together. 16. We place these rolls in a stewpan, with about one pint of brown sauce (see “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 2), ox good stock (see Lesson on “ Stock”). 17. We put the stewpan on the fire and let them stew gently for three quarters of an hour. 18. For serving, we should takeoff the twine from round the beef olives, and arrange them on a hot dish in a circle, pouring the sauce round the edge ; the centre may be filled in with dressed spinach (see “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8), or with mashed potatoes (see “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 2).Lessons on Cooking Meat.—[Entries k)—Irish Stew. 75 ENTREES. Lesson No. 9. IRISH STEW. Average cost of an “ Irish Stezvl INGREDIENTS. s. d. 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton ) o or the scrag end j ° 1 teaspoonful of salt ( o Qi 1 saltspoonful of pepper j 4 x doz. of button onions or two moderate ones o i 6 large potatoes o 2 3 3* Time inquired, about two hozirs. Now we will show you how to make an Irish Stew. 1. We take the best end of the neck of mutton and cut and trim the cutlets in the same way as for “haricot mutton” (see “Entrees,” Lesson No. io, from Note I to Note 8). 2. We place the cutlets in a stewpan. S. We sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper, and pour in one and a half pint of cold water. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and when it has come to the boil we should skim it. 5. We now draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for one hour. 6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally and re- move all fat. 7. We take half a dozen of potatoes, wash, scrub them, and peel them. 8. We cut these potatoes in halves. 9. We take one dozen of button onions, or two moderate- sized ones, and peel them carefully.76 National Training School for Cookery• 10. We add the onions and potatoes to the stew, and let it simmer for one hour. 11. After that time we should take a fork and feel if the vegetables are quite tender. 12. For serving we arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round, and the vegetables in the centre. N.B.—The scrag end of the neck of mutton might be used instead of the best end, but care should be taken in cleansing it before use.Cooking Meat.—(Entrees.)—Haricot Mutton. 77 ENTREES. Lesson No. 10. HARICOT MUTTON. Average cost of “ Haricot Mutton.” INGREDIENTS. 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton 1 onion Pepper and salt ) 1 tablespoonful of flour / 1 pint of second stock x carrot 1 turnip 1 dozen button onions . d. o 02 31 o\ °3 I 3 Time required, aboict one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make Haricot Mutton. 1. We take the best end of the neck of mutton and put it on a board. 2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone, leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 3. We saw off the chine bone which lies at the back of the cutlets. 4. We joint each cutlet with a chopper. 5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet. 6. We take a cutlet-bat and beat each cutlet to about rather more than half an inch in thickness. 7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch of the rib bone bare. 8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. N.B.—The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be clarified and used for dripping (see Lesson on “ Frying ”). 9. We take one onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 10. We put the onion and the cutlets in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter.78 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We put the stewpan on a quick fire to fry the cutlets a nice brown. 12. We must watch and turn the cutlets when they have become a light brown, so as to fry them the same colour -on both sides:—We then remove the cutlets from the stew- pan. 13. We should pour off the grease from the stewpan (and leave the onion), and then add one tablespoonful of flour, and pour in by degrees one pint of second stock, and stir well until it boils. 14. We strain this sauce, and return the cutlets with the sauce into the stewpan. 15. We take one carrot, wash it, and scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in the shape of young carrots, or into fancy shapes with a cutter. 16. We take one turnip, peel it, and cut it in very small dice. 17. We take one dozen button onions and peel them very carefully, so as not to break them in pieces. 18. We put the stewpan on the fire and let the meat stew gently for half an hour, then add the prepared vege- tables, and let all simmer for half an hour. 19. After that time we should take a fork and feel if the vegetables are quite tender. 20. For serving we arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish with the vegetables in the centre ; we remove all grease from the sauce and pour it round. N.B.—The scrag end of the neck of mutton might be used instead of the best end, but care should be taken in cleansing it before use.Cooking Meat.—{Entries.)—Croquettes of Chicken. 7 9 ENTREES. Lesson No. ii. CROQUETTES OR RISSOLES OF CHICKEN. Average cost of “ Croquettes or Rissoles of Chicken '* (about 15). INGREDIENTS. | a cold chicken 2 oz. of lean ham or bacon 6 mushrooms | oz. of flour 1 oz. of butter 2 tablespoonsful of cream 1 gill of stock Seasoning 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice ..... 1 egg J lb. of bread crumbs r. d. 1 ^ o 1^ o 3^ O l| O 3 o I 0 °h o o| o 1 o 2 If for rissoles with paste— 4 oz. of flour and 3 oz. of butter 2 6j o 3I 2 9! Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Croquettes or Ris- soles of Chicken.. 1. We take the half chicken (either roasted or boiled), cut away all the flesh from the bones, and put it on a board. 2. We cut away the skin, and mince the meat up very finely. 3. We take the mushrooms, wash them, peel them, and mince them and the ham up finely on the board, mixing them with the minced chicken. 4. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it on the fire. 5. When the butter is melted, we stir in half an ounce of flour, and mix it to a smooth paste.8o National Training School for Cookery. 6. We now add the stock, and stir again smoothly, until it boils and thickens. 7. We move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and stir in two tablespoonsful of cream. 8. We add one teaspoonful of lemon juice to the sauce. N.B.—We must be careful not to let any pips fall in. 9. We season the sauce with pepper, and salt according to taste, and, if liked, we might grate about half a saltspoonful of nutmeg into it. 10. We now stir in the minced chicken, ham, and mush- rooms until all are well mixed together. 11. We take a plate, and turn the contents of the stew- pan on to it. 12. We take a piece of kitchen paper, cut it to the size of the plate, butter it, and lay it on the top of the mixture, and stand the plate aside to cool. 13. When the mixture is cold,’ we put one pound and a half of lard,' or clarified dripping in a deep stewpan, and put it on the fire to heat. 14. We take some crumb of bread, and rub it through a wire sieve on to a piece of paper. 15. If rissoles are required, we put four ounces of flour on a board, and rub into it three ounces of butter, until both are thoroughly mixed, and there are no lumps remaining. 16. We mix the flour and butter into a stiff smooth paste with cold water. 17. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, sprinkle some flour over the board, and roll the paste out into as thin a sheet as possible. 18. We flour our hands, dip a knife in flour (to prevent any sticking), and form the chicken mixture into any fancy shapes for croquettes, either in balls or long rolls, &c., or we can roll it in the paste for rissoles. 19. We break an egg on to a plate, and beat it up slightly with a knife.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.)—Croquettes of Chicken. 81 20. We dip the croquettes or rissoles into the egg; and egg them well all over with a paste brush. 21. We now roll them in the bread crumbs, covering them well all over. N.B.—We must be careful to cover them smoothly and not too thickly. 22. We take a frying basket and arrange the croquettes or rissoles in it, but we must finger them as little as possible, and not allow them to touch each other. 23. When the fat on the fire is quite hot and smoking, we put in the frying basket for two minutes or so, to fry them a pale yellow. 24. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate, and as the rissoles are fried we turn them on to the paper to drain off the grease. 25. For serving we arrange them tastily on a hot dish, with fried parsley in the centre. N.B.—Cold veal or pheasant, &c., might be used for the (rissoles and cro- quettes instead of chicken, if preferred. F182 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 12. CURRIED RABBIT. Average cost of “ Curried Rabbit or Veal,” INGREDIENTS. 1 rabbit or i| lb. of veal cutlet .... £ lb. of butter 2 onions <■ 1 apple 2 tablespoonsful of curry powder .. 1 pint of .good stock 1 gill (J pint) of cream I lemon | a teaspoonful of salt 3 9l Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Curry cf rabbit or real. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan and put it on the fire to melt. 2. We take two onions, peel them, put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible. 3. We put the chopped onions into the melted butter, and let them fry a light brown. N..B.—We must be careful that they do not burn. 4. We take a rabbit (which has been skinned and pro- perly prepared for cooking), wash it well, and dry it in a cloth. 5. We put the rabbit on a board and cut it up in pieces of equal size. 6. If veal is used we should put it on a board and cut it into equal sized pieces. N.B.—If preferred chicken can be used instead of rabbit or veal. 7. When the onions are fried we strain them from the butler.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.)—Curried Rabbit. 83 '8. We put the butter back into the stewpan. 9. We now put in the pieces of meat, put the stewpan over a quick fire, and let it fry for ten minutes. 10. We must watch it and turn the pieces of meat occa- sionally, so that they are fried on both sides alike. 11. We take an apple, peel it, cut out the core, and chop it up as finely as possible on a board. 12. When the meat is fried we add to it two tablespoons- ful of curry powder, and half a teaspoonfid of salt, and stir well over the fire for five minutes. 13. We then put in the fried onions, the chopped apple, and one pint of good stock. 14. We move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours. 15. After that time we stir in one gill (quarter of a pint) ■of cream. 16. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife (the peel we should put aside as it is not required for present use). 17. We cut the lemon in half, and squeeze the juice of it through a strainer into the stewpan. 18. For serving we take the pieces of meat out of the stewpan and arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over the meat. N.B.—Boiled rice (see Lesson on ** Rice ”) should be served with the curry.84 'National Training School for Cookery. RICE. Average cost of “Boiled Rice,” to be served with Curry, &c. INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of Patna rice , j , 3 of a teaspoonful of salt * 0 9.... j 3 Time required, about half an hozir. Now we will show you how to boil Rice to be served with curry, &c. 1. We take a large stewpan and pour in it four quarts of water. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil the zvater. 3. We take half a pound of Patna rice, put it in a basin of cold water, and wash it well. 4. We drain off the water and rub the rice with our hands. 5. We must carefully pick out all the yellow grains and bits of black. 6. We must wash the rice in this manner four times. 7. Just before putting the rice on to boil we must pour some fresh cold water over it. 8. When the water in the stewpan is quite boiling, we throw the rice into it, stirring it round with a spoon. 9. We must add one quarter of a teaspoonful of salty which will make the scum rise. 10. We must take a spoon and skim it occasionally. 11. The rice should boil fast from fifteen to twenty minutes. N.B.—To test if the rice is sufficiently boiled, we should take out a grain or two, and press it between the thumb and finger, and if quite done, it will mash. 12. We now pour the rice out of the saucepan into a colander to drain off the water.85 Lessons on Cooking.—Boiled Rice. 13. We take the colander which contains the ricey and hold it under the tap. 14. We turn the tap and let the cold water run on to the rice for one or two seconds. (This is to separate the grains of rice.) 15. We take a clean dry stewpan and put it at the side of the fire. 16. When the water is quite drained from the rice, we turn it from the colander into the dry stewpan at the side of the fire. 17. We put the lid half on the stewpan. 18. We watch it, and stir it occasionally, to prevent the grains from sticking to the bottom of the stewpan. 19. When the rice is quite dry, we take it out carefully with a wooden spoon, and place it lightly on to a hot dish, it is then ready for serving.86 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. i. A-LA-MODE BEEF. Average cost of “ A-la-Mode Beef!' INGREDIENTS- j. d. x cow-heel o 6 An ox-cheek 2 o 3 oz. of dripping .. o ij 3 carrots... . o i| 6 onions o 2 1 bunch of herbs (marjoram, thyme, parsley, and bayleaf) 2 tablespoonsful of flour . Pepper and salt 2 iif Time required, three hours. Now we will show you how to make A-la-mode Beef. 1. We take a dressed cow-heel and wash it thoroughly in water. 2. We put the cow-heel on a board, and cut off all the flesh ; we cut the flesh into neat pieces. 3. We take an ox-cheek and wash it well in cold water. N.B.—We must be sure it is quite clean and free from all impurities. 4. We put the ox-cheek on a board, and rub it well with salt. 5. We then rub it quite dry in a clean cloth. 6. We put three ounces of clarified dripping into a large saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt. 7. We cut the ox-cheek up into neat pieces. N.B.—We should weigh the flesh of the ox-cheek and cow-heel, so as to know * how much water should be added, as 1 pint is allowed to each lb. of meat. 8. We flour each piece. 9. When the dripping is melted, we put in the floured pieces of ox-cheek, and let them fry a nice brown.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—A-la-Mode Beef. 87 10. We must stir the pieces occasionally, and not let them stick to the bottom of the saucepan. 11. We take three carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, and cut them in slices with a sharp knife. 12. We take six onions, peel them, and cut them in slices. 13. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a cloth. 14. We take one sprig of marjoram, thyme, one bay-leaf \ and the parsley, and tie them tightly together with a piece of string. 15. We put these vegetables and the bunch of herbs into the saucepan. 16. We also pour in the proper quantity of water, namely, one pint of zvater to each pound of meat. 17. We put two tablespoonsful of flour into a basin, and mix it into a smooth paste with cold water. 18. We now put the pieces of cow-heel into the saucepan, and plenty of pepper and salt to taste. 19. We stir the paste smoothly into the saucepan. 20. We put the lid on the saucepan, and when it boils we should move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for three hours. 21. We must watch it and skim it very often. N.B.—We must be always careful to skim anything that is cooking directly the scum rises, or it will boil down again into the meat and will spoil it— scum is the,impurity which rises from the meat or vegetables. 22. When the stew is finished, we pour it into a large dish or a soup tureen; it is then ready for serving. N.B.—The bones of the cowheel should be put into the stockpot-88 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 2. BRAZILIAN STEW. Average cost of a “ Brazilian Steiu INGREDIENTS. 5. <£. 4 lbs. of shin or sticking of beef at 9d. per lb. 3 o 2 carrots o 1 2 turnips o 1 4 onions o 1* A bunch of herbs, i. e., marjoram, thyme, ) and parsley \ o o^ Pepper and salt j 1 gill of vinegar o o\ 3 4i Time rcqtiired, about three hours and ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Brazilian Stew. 1. We take four pounds of the shin or sticking of beef ’ put it on a board, and cut all the meat off the bone. 2. We cut the meat up into neat pieces. 3. We put some vinegar into a basin ; we dip each piece of meat into the vinegar. N.B.—Putting meat into vinegar will make it tender, therefore any tough pieces of meat may be used for this stew. The vinegar will not be tasted when the meat is cooked. 4. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, and cut them into slices with a sharp knife. 5. We take two turnips and four onions, peel them, and cut them up into slices. 6. We put the pieces of meat into a saucepan, arranging them closely together. 7. We should sprinkle some pepper and salt over the meat. 8. We now put in all the vegetables, ,and we also add aLessons on Cooking Meat.—Brazilian Stew. 89 small bunch of herbs, namely, a sprig of marjoram, thyme, and parsley, tied tightly together. N.B.—We put no water in this stew; the vinegar draws out the juices of the meat, and makes plenty of gravy. 9. We shut down the lid tight, put the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for at least three hours. 10. For serving we turn the stew on to a hot dish, or in a soup tureen.90 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 3. IRISH STEW. Average cost of an “ Irish Stew * INGREDIENTS. d. 2 lbs. of potatoes 2 1 lb. of the scrag end of mutton 8 1 lb. of onions ) Pepper and salt } 11 Time required, about three hours. Now we will show you how to make an u Irish Stew 1. We take two pounds of potatoes, wash them well in cold water. 2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, carefully cut out the eyes or any black specks about the potatoes, and cut them in slices. 3. We take one pound of onions, peel them, and cut them in slices. 4. We take one pound of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, wash it in cold water, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut off the fat. 5. We put the meat on a board, and cut it up in small pieces. 6. We take a large saucepan, put in a layer of meat, then a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions. 7. We should sprinkle a little pepper, and salt over each layei for seasoning. 8. We continue to fill the saucepan in this way, till there, is no meat or vegetables left. 9. We now pour in sufficient cold water to cover the bottom of the saucepan (about half a pint). 10. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it hasLessons on Cooking Meat.—Irish Stew. 91 come to the boil, we must skim it, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for, from one hour and a half \ to two hours. 11. We must watch it, skim it well while it is cooking, and stir it occasionally to prevent its catching. 12. For serving we turn the stew out on a hot dish. N.B.—If a larger quantity of potato be required in the stew, the extra quantity of potato should be parboiled (see note below), and then cut in slices, and added to the stew § an hour before it is ready for serving. If all the potatoes were put in with the meat at first, so much water would be required that the stew would be spoiled. N.B.—For parboiling (or half boiling) potatoes we wash them, and peel them, put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them, put the saucepan on the fire, and let the potatoes boil for about a \ of an hour.*92 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 4. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF (cold). Average cost of “ Stewed Brisket of Beef !' INGREDIENTS. 7 lbs. of brisket of beef at gd. per lb 2 carrots 1 turnip 2 onions 1 head of celery 1 leek Bouquet garni (i.esprig of thyme, mar-'l joram, and bay leaf) 6 cloves \ T2 peppercorns ( 6 allspice i 1 tablespoonful of salt J s. d. 5 3 o 1 o o| o I o 4 O I o 2 For \ an ounce of glaze 6 o| o 2 6 2k Time required, about four hours. Now we will show you how to stew Brisket of Beef to be served cold. 1. We take seven pounds of brisket of beef (not very fat), see that it is quite clean, and, if necessary, scrape it with a knife and wipe it with a clean cloth, and then put it into a large saucepan. 2. We take two carrots, wash and scrape them clean and cut them in halves. 3. We take one turnip and two onions, wash them and peel them, and cut the turnip in quarters. 4. We take one leek and one head of celery, wash them well in water, cut the long green leaves off the leek> and the green tops from the celery. 5. We add all these vegetables to the meat in the saucepan. 6. We also add a bouquet garni, of thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf tied tightly together, six cloves, twelve pepper-Lessons on C ookingMeat.—Stewed Brisket of Beef. 9 3 corns, six allspice, tablespoonfid of salt, and quarts of cold water. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil we should skim it well. 8. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for three hours, we must watch it and skim it occasionally. 9. After that time we take the meat out of the saucepan and put it on a dish. 10. We take a knife and carefully remove the flat bones at the side of the beef. 11. We place the beef between two dishes and some heavy weight on the top to press the beef. 12. We pour the stock through a strainer into a basin, and when it is cold we should remove every particle of fat,\ N.B.—Instead of reducing the stock for glaze, glaze can be bought at the grocer’s ; about half an ounce would be required, and it should be put in a gaily pot with about a tablespoonful of water; the gaily pot must be placed in a saucepan of boiling water, over the fire; when the glaze is. melted, it should be stirred with the brush, before brushing over the meat, as directed in paragraph 14. The stock can be used for soup. 13. We then put the stock in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil, without the lid, so as to reduce the stock to a glaze, about a gill (a quarter of a pint). 14. We now take the beef and with a paste brush cover the joint with Xhe glaze, brushing it over several times until all the glaze is used up; as soon as the glaze is cold and set on the beef it is ready for serving.94 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 5. STEWED RABBIT. Average cost of a “ Stewed Rabbit!' INGREDIENTS. t rabbit £ lb. of bacon 1 carrot 1 onion 1 shalot 1 oz. of flour. s. d. 1 9 0 3 O li| 2 i pint of second stock 3\d., or water. Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to Stew a Rabbit. 1. We take a rabbit (which has been skinned and pro- perly prepared for cooking), put it on a board, and cut it up into neat pieces, with a sharp knife. 2. We must wash the pieces of rabbit, and dry them in a clean cloth. 3. We take a quarter of a pound of bacon, and cut it up in inch lengths; we put it in a saucepan over the fire to fry for about six minutes ; we then take it out, and put it on a plate. 4. We now put the pieces of rabbit in the saucepan, and let them fry brown, in the bacon fat. We must watch it, and turn the pieces occasionally. 5. We take a carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in half. 6. We take an onion, and a shalot, and peel them. 7. We now put the fried bacon, and the vegetables into the saucepan, with the rabbit.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Stewed Rabbit. 95 8. We also add one ounce of flour, pepper, salt to taste, and pour in one pint of second stock or water. 9. We put the saucepan over the fire, and stir well till it boils, then skim it well, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire, to simmer gently, for about one hour and a quarter, or perhaps a little longer if the rabbit is old. 10. For serving, we arrange the rabbit, and bacon on a hot dish, and strain the sauce over it.9 6 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 6. STEWED OX CHEEK. Average cost of “ Stezved Ox Cheek ” and about 4 quarts of Soup. INGREDIENTS. Ox cheek, about 6 lbs., at 4^. per lb 2 carrots 1 turnip \ head of celery 4 onions Bouquet garni (i.e. sprig of thyme, mar-\ joram, parsley, and a bayleaf) 12 cloves 1 blade of mace 20 peppercorns Salt , 1 oz. of butter I 1 oz. of flour j 1 teaspoonful of Harvey Sauce ) 1 teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup .... j s. d. 2 o o 1 o o| o 2 o oj o i£ o i£ O I 2 7l Time required, about four hours and a half. Now we will show you how to Stew Ox Cheek. 1. We take the ox cheek, and wash it well in warm water, put it on a board, and carefully cut all the flesh off the bone, with a sharp knife. 2. We roll the flesh up, and tie it round with a piece of string, put it in a stewpan with one ounce of clarified dripping, and put it over the fire to fry brown. 3. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them in halves. 4. We take a turnip, wash it, peel it, and cut it in half. 5. We take half a head of celery, wash it well, and cut off the green tops of the leaves. 6. We take four onions, peel them, and stick tivelve cloves into one of them.Lessons on Cooking Mext.—Stewed Ox Cheek. 9 7 7. We put the rolled ox cheek, the bones, and all these vegetables into a saucepan, we also add a blade of mace, twenty peppercorns, a tablespoonful of salt, and a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of thyme, marjoram, parsley, and a bay leaf, tied tightly together. 8. We pour in sufficient cold water to cover it all, about six quarts; put the saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, then skim it well, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire to simmer gently for four hours. 9. When the ox cheek is nearly done, we should make the sauce. 10. We put oyie ounce of butter in a small stewpan, and put it over the fire to melt. 11. We now stir in smoothly one ounce of flour. 12. We take one pint of ox cheek stock, from the saucepan, and pour it into the stewpan, stirring well until the sauce boils, and thickens, we then add a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, and stand the stewpan by the side of the fire to keep warm. 13. For serving, we take the rolled ox cheek out of the saucepan, carefully remove the string, place it in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the sauce over it. N.B.—The stock should be poured through a strainer into a basin, and put aside to cool, so that the fat can be removed; the stock can then be used for Ox Cheek Soup, and it should be thickened with two ounces of flour; the flour must be mixed to a smooth paste with a little of the stock, then added to the remainder of the stock, and stirred over the fire till it boils and thickens. The remains of the Ox Cheek, after serving, should be cut up in small pieces, and added to the soup. G98 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 7. STEWED BREAST or NEOK OF LAMB, WITH PEAS. Average cost of “ Stewed Breast of Lamb!' INGREDIENTS. j. d. 1 breast of Lamb, or 2 lbs. of the neck .... 2 o x pint of green peas o 3 1 onion o oj Dessertspoonful of mint \ 1 oz. of flour ? o o\ Salt and pepper ) 2 4 Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to Stew Breast or Neck of Lamb. 1. We take the lamb, put it on a board, and cut it up in small pieces, then wash it well in cold water, and put it in a saucepan with one quart of cold water. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil we must skim it well, and add about a teaspoon- ful of salt, and skim again ; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, to simmer gently for half an hour. 3. We must now skim it well, and put in the pint of peas, and let all simmer half an hour longer. 4. We take the onion, peel it, and chop it, and the mint, up finely on a board, we add these to the steived lamb, and pepper to taste. 5. We mix one ounce of flour very smoothly in a cup, with a tablespoonful of water, and stir it into the saucepan to thicken the gravy. 6. We let it all simmer again for ten minutes.Lessons on Cooking Meat. Stewed Breast of Lamb, g g 7. For serving, we must carefully remove all grease {either with a spoon or by putting a piece of clean blotting- paper or whitey-brown paper on the top of the stew, which will absorb the grease), and turn the stew on to a hot dish; the meat should be arranged in the centre, and tho. peas and gravy round.i oo National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 8. STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL Average cost of “ Stewed Knuckle of Vcall' INGREDIENTS. s. d. 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal 2 o 5 lb. of rice o of 1 onion o o^ f of a teaspoonful of salt 1 f of a teaspoonful of pepper ,s o 1 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley ) 2 2| If served with " Melted Butter sauce,” ifd. ; Or with u Sharp Sauce? INGREDIENTS. \ pint of veal stock 1 onion 1 shalot 1 carrot x oz. butter x oz. flour 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley .. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar Pepper and salt d~ °.j o| X of 32 Time required, about two hours, Now we will show you how to stew knuckle of veal. 1. We take the four pounds of kmtckle of veal wash it well in cold water, and put it in a saucepan with four pints of cold water ; put the saucepan over the fire, and when it boils we should add a teaspoonful of salt, and skim it well, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire, to simmer for two hours. N.B.—If the veal is to be served with “ sharp sauce '* we omit the rice and onion. For sharp sauce see below, No. 7. 2. We take one onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 3. We take a quarter of a pound of rice, and wash it well in two waters.Lessons on Cooking Meat. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. i o i 4. We take two or three sprigs of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely on a board ; there should be a table- spoonfid. 5. When the veal has simmered for one hour, we add the sliced onion, the rice, and salt and pepper, and let it simmer for one hour more. 6. We now add the chopped parsley. For serving, we place the veal on a hot dish, and pour the gravy and vege- tables round. N.B.—If liked, melted butter (see Sauces, Lesson No. 7), with a teaspoonful of chopped paisley in it, could be poured in addition over the veal. 7. For “ sharp sauce? we take an onion and a shaloty peel them, and chop them up very finely on a board. 8. We take a carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, and chop it up finely. 9. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely. 10. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it over the fire : we add the onion, shalot, and carrot, and let them fry in the butter for about five minutes—they must not burn ; we then add one ounce of flour, and half a pint of veal stock, and stir well till it boils and thickens. 11. Just before serving, we stir in a tablespoonful of vinegar and the chopped parsley. For serving knuckle of veal with sharp sauce, we place the veal on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over it. N.B.—The remainder of the stock, which is then not required, should be strained into a basin, and can then be used for soup.102 National Training School for Cookery, TRIPE. Lesson No. i. CURRIED TRIPE. Average cost of “ Curried Tripe'.' INGREDIENTS. d. i lb. of tripe 8 £ lb. of Patna rice of i onion oj Flour, sugar, and curry powder tof Time required, about three ho?irs. Now we will show you how to make a Curry of Tripe. 1. We take one pound of tripe, put it in a saucepan of cold water, and let it boil up. Immediately it boils take it out of the water. N.B.—This is called blanching. 3. We cut the tripe up into small pieces. 3. We take a saucepan and lay the pieces of tripe in it and pour in sufficient cold water to cover the tripe. 4. We take a small onion and peel it, and cut it partially through. 5. We put the onion into the saucepan of tripe. 6. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils we must remove it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for not less than two hours and a half. 7. After that time we try the tripe with a fork, and if it is sufficiently cooked, it will be very tender. 8. We take the saucepan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 9. We take the pieces of tripe out with a fork, and put them on a dish. 10. We take a small saucepan and put in it one ounce of flour, one dessertspoonful of curry powder, and half an ounceLessons on Cooking Meat.—Curried Tripe. 103 of dripping, and mix them all well together with a wooden spoon. 11. We add cold water, sufficient to make the above into a stiff paste. 12. We now pour in half a pint of the liquor, in which the tripe was boiled. 13. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the mixture well until it boils and thickens. We must not let it get lumpy. 14. We stir in a quarter of a teaspoonfid of brown sugar and salt according to taste. We must now stand the saucepan aside to get cool. 15. We take the onion which was boiled with the tripe, and cut it in shreds and add it to the sauce. 16. When the sauce is a little cool, we put in the pieces of tripe and just let them warm through. 17. We take a dish and warm it, and pour the tripe and sauce on it, keeping it as much in the centre of the dish as possible. 18. We take a teacupfirt of Patna rice, wash it well in two or three waters, and put it in a saucepan full of boiling water. We must be sure the water is boiling. (N.B.—Rice should be boiled in plenty of water.) We add to it a saltspoonfid of salt. 19. We must let it boil from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, after that time, we must feel the rice to see if it is soft. 20. When the rice is sufficiently cooked, we strain it off, and pour cold water over it. 21. We then put the rice back into the empty saucepan, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire to dry the rice. The lid should be only half on the saucepan^ 22. When the rice is quite dry we take it out' of the saucepan and arrange it round the tripe. It is now ready for serving.104 National Training School for Cookery. TRIPE. Lesson No. 2. TRIPE IN MILK. Average cost of “ Tripe in Milk!' INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of tripe o 8 3 or 4 good-sized onions o 2 i pint of milk o 2.V Seasoning and flour o o£ i I Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to cook Tripe in Milk. 1. We take one pound of tripe, put it into a saucepan of cold water to boil up and blanch. When it boils we take it off the fire. 2. We put the tripe on a board and cut it in small pieces. 3. We take three or four good-sized onions, peel them and cut them partially through. 4. We put the tripe and onions into a saucepan, with one pint of milk. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 6. When it boils, we should move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for not less than two hours. 7. After that time, we should feel the tripe with a fork, and if it is sufficiently cooked it will be very tender. 8. We take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 9. We take the onions out of the saucepan and put them on a board and chop them up finely. 10. We take the tripe out of the saucepan and arrange it on a warm dish.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Tripe in Milk. 105 11. We stand the dish near the fire to keep warm. 12. We take a dessertspoonful of flour, and mix it to a smooth paste with cold milk. 13. We stir, by degrees, the paste into the hot milk, and let it boil and thicken. 14. We now stir the 0/220/2 into the milk, and let it warm through. 15. We season the onion sauce, according to taste, and pour it over the tripe. It is now ready for serving.io6 National Training School for Cookery. (see “Tripe," Lesson No. 2). TRIPE. Lesson No. 3. TRIPE A LA COUTANCE. Average cost of “ Tripe a la Coutancel9 INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of thin tripe f lb. of bacon 1 small carrot 4 mushrooms \ a large onion or 6 small green onions .. 1 Bouquet garni > 2 shalots and parsley ) 2 oz. of butter i tablespoonful of Harvey sauce » i tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup.... / i oz. of flour i pint of stock The juice of half a lemon Salt and pepper j. d. o 8 o 6 o o\ o i| O 2f O 2 O 2 O Oy o 71 O I o o£ 2 7f Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to cook Tripe a la Cou- tance. 1. We wash the tripe well in cold water. 2. We put the tripe in a stewpan with cold water enough to cover it. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire and bring it to the boil. N.B.—This is to blanch the tripe. 4. We then take the tripe out of the stewpan and dry it. in a clean cloth. 5. We put the tripe on a board, and with a sharp knife cut it into strips about two inches wide and four inches in length. N. B.—Only the thin part of the tripe can be used for ‘ ‘ tripe a la Coutance ; it there are any thick pieces they can be cooked with milk and onions?Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Tripe a la Coutance. 107 6. We take the half pound of bacon and cut it in very thin slices, the same size as the strips of tripe. 7. We take one shalot, peel it, and two or three sprigs of parsley, and chop them up finely on a board. 8. We lay one slice of bacon on each strip of tripey sprinkle a little chopped shalot and parsley over each slice of bacon, roll them up together, and tie them firmly round with a piece of string. 9. We take the carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in slices. 10. We take the half onion and the other shalot, peel them, and cut them in slices. 11. We take a sprig of marjoram, thyme, and a bay-leaf \ and tie them tightly together with a piece of string. 12. We take the mushrooms, wash them, and cut off the end of the stalks. 13. We arrange the rolls of tripe and bacon in a stewpan. 14. We also add all the vegetables and the herbs. 15. We pour in a pint of stock, and put the stewpan on the fire. 16. When it just boils we remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for two hours. 17. After that time we take out the rolls of tripe and put them on a plate. 18. We take a strainer, hold it over a basin, and strain the stock. 19. We put two ounces of butter into another stewpan,. and put it on the fire to melt. 20. When the butter is melted we add to it one ounce of floury and mix them smoothly together. 21. We now add the stocky and stir it over the fire until it boils and thickens. 22. We take half a lemon and squeeze the juice of it into the sauce. N.B.—We must be careful not to let any pips fall in.io8 National Training School for Cookery. 23. We also stir in one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and season the sauce with pepper and salt. 24. We now place in the rolls of tripey and let them warm through. 25. For serving we arrange the rolls of tripe in a circle on a hot dish, with some puree of carrot, or spinach (see “Vegetables,” Lessons Nos. 6 and 8), or with a mixture of vegetables (according to taste), in the centre, and pour the sauce round the edge.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Braised Fillet of Veal. 109, BRAISED FILLET OF VEAL Average cost of “ A Braised Fillet of VealA INGREDIENTS. 3! lbs. of the fillet of veal | lb. of the fat of bacon A bouquet garni of parsley, thyme, and ) baylcaf ) 1 onion 3 pints of good stock 2 young carrots Celery and turnip ) Salt .. / .v. d. 3 6 o 6 O Or 0 o\ 1 ?! O I o o£ 6 o Time required (the stock should be made the day before), about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to Braise a Fillet of Veal. 1. We take three and a half pounds of the fillet of veal, put it on a board, and cut off all the skin with a sharp knife. 2. We lard this fillet in the same way as for fillets of beef (see “ Entree,” Lesson No. 3, from Note 3 to Note 7). 3. We place the fillet carefully in a braising pan. 4. We add a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf.\ all tied neatly and tightly together. 5. We take two young carrots, wash them, scrape them clean with a knife and cut them in halves. 6. We take an onion and a quarter of a turnip, and peel them carefully. 7. We add these vegetables, and half a stick of celery, to the fillet in the braising pan. 8. We now pour in about three pints of good stock (the stock must not cover the meat), put the braising pan on the fire, and baste the fillet continually. 9. We take a piece of kitchen paper, cut a round to the size of the braising pan and butter it. 10. As soon as the stock boils, we lay this round of paper on the fillet in the stewpan. N.B.—This paper is to prevent the meat from browning too quickly.no National Training School for Cookery. 11. We keep the lid of the braising pan on, and place it in a hot oven, and let it cook slowly for one hour and a quarter. 12. We must watch it, frequently raise the paper, and baste the veal with the stock. 13. We take the veal out of the braising pan, and place it on a hot dish. N. B.—We must stand this dish on the hot plate, or near the fire, to keep warm until the sauce is ready. 14. We put the braising pan on the fire and let the sauce reduce to a half glaze. 15. We then strain the glaze round the meat. 16. We serve it with dressed spinach (see “ Vegetables/' Lesson No. 8), or with dressed carrots and turnips (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 6).Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Roast BullocJzs Hear it. i r i ROAST BULLOCK’S OR CALF’S HEART. EITHER IN FRONT OF THE FIRE OR IN A STEWPAN. Average cost of a “Bullock's or Calf's Heart stuffedand “ Brown Sauce'.' INGREDIENTS. "Bullock's or Calf's Heart." s. d. 1 bullock’s heart (or calf s) 2s. or 2 2 oz. of suet o \ lb. of biead crumbs o 1 gill (J pint of milk) o 1 egg o Salt and pepper \ 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley \ i dessertspoonful of chopped [ mixed herbs : thyme, lemon thyme, and marjo- 6 i* 1 of 1 lb. dripping.... o 2 ' Sauce.' 1 small onion and half a carrot Salt and pepper k oz. of flour 1 oz. of butter o t dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup o ok Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to stuff a Bullock's Heart and roast it. 1. We must first prepare the fire for roasting as described in “Roasting,” Lesson No. I. 2. We take a bullock's heart, and wash it thoroughly in salt and water, carefully cleansing all the cavities of the heart, and removing all the blood. 3. We take it out of the salt and water, and put it into a basin of clean water, wash it again, until it is quite clean, and wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth. N.B.—If the heart is not quite dry, it will not roast properly. 4. We put the heart on a board, and with a sharp knife cut off the flaps, or deaf ears (as they are called). 5. We put two ounces of suet on a board, cut away all the112 National Training School for Cookery. skin, and chop it up as finely as possible ; we should sprinkle a little flour over the suet, to prevent it from sticking to the board or knife. 6. We grate some bread crumbs with a grater on to the board. 7. We wash two or three sprigs of parsley in cold water, dry them in a cloth, and chop the parsley up as finely as possible on a board; when chopped there should be about one tablespoonful. 8. We take a sprig of thyme, lemon thyme and marjoram, rub them through a strainer, or chop them up finely on a board ; there should be about one dessertspoonful of the mixed herbs. 9. We now mix the chopped suet, and bread crumbs well together, and then add the parsley, the herbs, one teaspoon- ful of salti and pepper to taste, and mix them thoroughly together. 10. We now mix it with one gill (a quarter of a pint) of milk, and one egg. 11. We take the heart and fill all the cavities with the stuffing, pressing it in as firmly as possible. N. B.—If there be any stuffing over, it can be put aside for the sauce. 12. We grease a piece of kitchen paper well with a piece of butter or dripping; and then place over the top of the heart where the cavities are, and tie it on tightly with string. 13. We put the roasting screen in front of the fire, to keep off the draught, and to keep in all the heat. N.B.—The Bullock's or Calf's heart can be roasted in a stewpan instead of in front of the fire. N.B.—For roasting in a stewpan. A. We take the heart already stuffed and prepared as above and put it in a stewpan, with 2 oz. of clarified dripping, and put the stewpan over a slow fire. B. We must baste it well with the dripping, and turn it occasionally. The Bullock's heart will take two hours to roast, the Calf's heart only one hour. N.B.—A Bullock's heart is better roasted in front of the fire on account oi its size.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Roast Bullocks Heart. 113 21. We put the dripping-pan, or a large dish, down on a stand within the screen close to the fire, with the dripping ladle or a large spoon in it. 22. We hang the, roasting-jack up from the mantlepiece over the dripping-pan. N.B.—If there be no roasting-jack, we can manage with a strong piece of worsted tied to a poor man’s jack. 23. We must wind up the jack with its key, before we put the meat on. 24. We take the hook of the roasting-jack and pass it through the heart, and hang it on the jack or the worsted. N.B.—If the heart is hanging from a piece of worsted, we must twist the- worsted occasionally to make it go round. 25. We put about a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping into the dripping-pan, and baste the heart occa- sionally. 26. It will take about two hours to roast. 27. We take one small onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 28. We put the onion in a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, or clarified dripping. 29. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let the onion fry a nice brown. 30. We now add one tablespoonful of flour, and mix them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. 31. We pour in half a pint of cold water, season it with salt andpepper to taste, and stir smoothly until it boils and thickens; 32. We then stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until required for use. 33. When the heart is roasted, we take it down, place the heart on a hot dish and draw out the hook. 34. We cut the string and take off the greased paper. H114 National Training School for Cookery. 35. If there be any stuffing over, we now stir it into the sauce; we also add one dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. N.B.—If the flavouring of mushroom ketchup be disliked, it may be omitted. 36. We pour the sauce round the heart on the dish, and it is then ready for serving.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Cornish Pasties. 115 CORNISH PASTIES. Average cost of “ Cornish Pasties ” (about 12). INGREDIENTS. £ lb. of buttock steak or beef skirt \ lb. of potatoes 1 onion 1 lb. of flour 6 oz. of dripping Salt and pepper 1 teaspoonful of baking powder .. — Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how we make Cornish Pasties. 1. We take half a pound of buttock steak or beef skirt, put it on a board, and cut it up into small pieces. 2. We take half a pound of potatoes, wash and peel them put them on a board, and cut them up into small pieces. 3. We take one small onion, peel it, put it on a board, and chop it up as finely as possible. 4. We put one pound of flour into a basin with a little salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 5. We put in six ounces of dripping, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 6. We now add enough cold water to mix it into a stiff paste. 7. We flour a board and turn the paste on to it. 8. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll the paste out into a thin sheet, about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 9. We cut the paste into pieces about six or seven inches square. 10. We place a little of the meat andpotato in the centre of each square, sprinkle over it a little pepper and salt, and a very little of the chopped onioii. 11. We fold the paste over the meat, joining it by pressing the ed^es together with our thumb and finger. h ?116 National Training School for Cookery. 12. We grease a baking tin and put the pasties on it. N.B.—If there be no baking tin we should grease the shelf in the oven to prevent the pasties from sticking. 13. We put the tin into the oven to bake from half an hour to three quarters of an hour. 14. For serving, we put the pasties on a dish.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sausage Rolls, r 17 SAUSAGE ROLLS. Average cost of “ Sausage Rolls ” (about one dozen) made with cooked or uncooked meat. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of cooked or uncooked meat 5 1 lb. flour 2 \ lb. dripping 4 1 teaspoonful baking powder \ Seasoning I \ a shalot > 1 1 small onion | 4 sage leaves ; 1 egg 1 1 1 Time required half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Sausage Rolls. 1. We take half a pound of meat (cooked or uncooked), put it on a board, take away .all the fat, and mince the meat up as finely as possible. 2. We take the mince meat, put it in a basin, and season it well with pepper and salt. 3. We take four sage leaves, put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible with a knife. 4. We take half a shalot and one small onion, peel them, and chop them up upon the board. 5. We mix the chopped sage, shalot, and onion well into the mince meat with a spoon. 6. We put one pound of flour into a basin. 7. We add to it one teaspoonful of baking powder, a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and half a pound of clarified dripping. 8. We rub the dripping well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We must mix it thoroughly and be careful not to leave any lumps. 9. We add enough water to the flour to make it into a stiff paste.118 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We flour the paste board. 11. We turn the paste out on the board. N.B.—We should divide the paste in two, so as not to handle it too much. 12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out each portion into a thin sheet, about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 13. We cut the paste into pieces about six inches square. 14. We should collect all the scraps of paste (so that none is wasted), fold them together, and roll them out and cut them into squares. N.B.—There should be about one dozen squares of paste. 15. We should put about a tablespoonful of the mince meat and herbs into the centre of each square of paste. 16. We fold the paste round the meat, joining it smoothly down the centre, and pressing the ends of the paste together with our finger and thumb. 17. We take a baking tin, grease it well, and place the sausage rolls on it. 18. We break one egg on to a plate, and beat it slightly with a knife. 19. We take a paste brush, dip it in the egg, and paint over the tops of the rolls. 20. We place the tin in a hot oven to bake for fifteen minutes if the meat is already cooked, but if raw meat is used, then half an hour is required. N.B.—We should look at them once or twice, and turn them if necessary, so that they shall be equally baked. 21. For serving we take the rolls off the tin and place them on a hot dish.Lessons on Cooking Meat.— Veal and Ham Pie. 119 VEAL AND HAM PIE. Average cost of “ Veal and Ham Pie1* (about a quart pie-dish). INGREDIENTS. lb. of fillet of veal (lean) | lb. of bacon 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley Salt and pepper f lb. of flour 3 oz. of butter 3 oz. of lard s. d. 1 6 o 3 o 2 O 2.\ ° 3 O 2 Time required, about two hours. 2 Now we will show you how to make a Veal and Ham Pie. 1. We put three quarters of a pound of flour, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of lard, on a board. 2. We take a knife and chop up the butter and lard into the flour, sprinkle over a qitarter of a saltspoonful of salt, heap it on the board, and make a well in the centre. 3. We add a large tablespoonfid of water, and beat it up slightly with a knife. 4. We now, slowly and lightly, mix it all with our fingers, adding more water if necessary, until it be formed into a stiff paste. 5. We must keep our hands, and the board well floured, that the paste may not stick. 6. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste, and fold it in half, turn it round with the rough edges towards us, roll it again, and fold it as before three times more ; the last time we should roll it out to the size of the pie-dish to be used, only a little larger, and to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch. 7. We put a small saucepan of water on the fire to boil ; when the water boils, we should put in two eggs, and let them boil for ten minutes.120 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We take one pound and a half of fillet of veal, and a quarter of a pound of bacon, and cut them up in small pieces with a sharp knife. 9. When the eggs are sufficiently boiled, we take them out of the saucepan, tap them all round on a cup, take the shell off, and put them in a little cold water. 10. We take them out of the water, and carefully cut them in quarters. 11. We put the veal’ bacon, and hard-boiled eggs into the pie-dish, we also sprinkle over the meat a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, and pour in two tablespoonsful of cold water, or stock. 12. We now take a knife, flour it, and cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of the pie dish. We wet the edge of the pie-dish with cold water, or white of egg, and place the paste round the edge of the dish, joining it smoothly together. 13. We now wet the edge of the paste, take the remaining piece of paste and lay it carefully over the top of the pie, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. 14. We take a knife, flour it, and trim off all the rough edges of the paste round the edge of the dish. 15. We should make little notches in the edge of the paste with the back of the knife, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. 16. We should make a small hole in the centre of the paste, to let out the steam, while it is baking. 17. We can ornament the top of the pie with any remains of paste according to taste, and if there be any white of egg, we should brush over the top of the pie. 18. We put the pie into a hot oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240° Fahrenheit), for one hour and a half; we must watch it occasionally and turn it, to prevent it burning: it should become a pale brown. It is then ready for serving.12 I Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Rabbit Pie. pie, from note 13 to note 19. RABBIT PIE. Average cost of “ Rabbit Pie ” (in about a quart pie-dish). INGREDIENTS. s. d. i Rabbit i 9 J lb. of bacon or salt pork o 6 % lb. of beefsteak o 6 Salt and pepper 1 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley > o 25 f lb. of flour ) 6 oz. of clarified dripping o 3 3 2! Time required, about two hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make a Rabbit Pie. 1. We must first make the paste, in the same way as for veal and ham pie, from note 1 to note 8. N.B.—Clarified dripping may be used, instead of the butter and lard, for economy’s sake. 2. We take a rabbit (which has been skinned and properly prepared for cooking), wash it well in cold water, wipe it dry, and put it on a board. 3. We take a sharp knife, and cut it up in neat pieces, about equal sizes. 4. We take half a pound of bacon, or salt pork, put it on a board, and cut it slices. 5. We put half a pound of beef-steak on a board, and cut it in small pieces. 6. We arrange the rabbit, bacon, and beef in a pie-dish, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, and pour in about a tablespoonful of cold water, or stock. 7. We finish the pie in the same way, as for veal and ham122 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We place the pie in a hot oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240° Fahrenheit) to bake slowly for one hour and a half, to two hours, according to the age of the rabbit, as an old rabbit takes longer to cook. We must watch it occasionally, and turn it, to prevent it burn- ing : it should become a pale brown. It is then ready for serving.Lesson on Cooking Meat.—Beef Steak Pie. 123 MEAT PIE (BEEF STEAK). Average cost of a “ Meat Pie ” (in a quart dish). INGREDIENTS. 1J lb. buttock steak \ lb. bullock’s kidney Seasoning (flour, salt, and pepper) . f lb. of flour | lb. clarified dripping s. d. 1 6 o 8 O On O 11 O 4 2 8 Time required, about two hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pie. 1. We take one pound and a half of buttock steak, put it on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 2. We should cut away all the skin. 3. We take half a pound of bullock's kidney, put it on a plate, and cut it in slices. 4. We put one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper on to a plate, and mix them well together. 5. We dip each slice of meat, and kidney into the season- ing, and roll them up into little rolls. 6. We arrange these rolls of meat, and kidney in a quart pie dish, and fill up the dish two-thirds with ivater. 7. We put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a basin. 8. We add half a saltspoonful of salt to the flour, and mix them well together. 9. We take half a poiuid of clarified dripping,; cut it in small pieces, and rub it well into the floitr with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful that there are no lumps of dripping in the flour. 10. We then add by degrees, enough cold water, to make it into a stiff paste. 11. We take a rolling-pin and flour it. We also sprinkle flour on the board, and flour our hands to prevent the paste from sticking.124 National Training School for Cookery. 12. We take the paste out of the basin and put it on a board. 13. We roll out the paste once to the shape of the pie dish, only rather larger, and to the thickness of about one-third of an inch. 14. We wet the edge of the dish with water. 15. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of the pie dish, and place it round the edge of the dish. N.B.—We should cut this strip of paste from round the edge of the paste, leaving the centre piece the size and shape of the top of the pie dish. 16. We wet the edge of the paste with water. 17. We take the remaining paste and place it over the pie dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. N.B.—We must be very careful not to break the paste. 18. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and trim off all the rough edges of the paste round the edge of the dish. 19. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. N.B.—We can ornament the top of the pie with any remaining paste to our fancy. 20. We make a hole with the knife in the centre of the pie to let out the steam while the pie is baking. N.B.—If there were not an escape for the steam it would sodden the inside of the crust, and so prevent it from baking properly. 21. We put the pie into the oven to bake g'ently for two hours. We must watch it occasionally, and turn it to prevent its burning. It should become a pale brown. It is then ready for serving. N.B.—Meat pies should be put in the hottest part of the oven first, which, in most ovens, is the top, to make the crust light, and then put in a cooler part to cook the meat thoroughly. N.B.—This pie could be made with veal or mutton instead of steak.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Beef Steak Pudding. 125 MEAT PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Meat Pudding ” (a quart basin.) INGREDIENTS. j. d. 6 oz. of suet o 3! 1 lb. of flour o 2 1 teaspoonful of baking powder o oj Seasoning o oj i| lb. of buttock steak, iod. per lb i 3 | lb. bullock’s kidney o 8 a 5* Time required about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pudding. 1. We take a large saucepan full of cold water, and put it cn the fire to boil. 2. We take six ounces of suet and put it on a board. 3. We take a knife and cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible, and sprinkle a little flour over the suet to prevent its sticking. 4. We put one pound of flour into a basin, and add to it a teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt and mix all well together. 5. We now add the chopped suet and rub it well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps of suet. 6. We then add by degrees about half a pint of cold water to make it into a paste; we should mix it well. 7. We put one teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonfid of pepper on a plate, and mix them together. 8. We take one pound and a half of buttock steak, put it on a board, and cut it in slices about three inches long and two inches broad. N.B.—We should cut away all the skin. 9. We take half a pound of bullock's kidney, put it on a board, and cut it in slices.126 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We dip each slice of meat and kidney into the plate of seasoning. 11. We take a quart basin and grease it well inside with dripping. 12. We take a rolling pin and flour it; we also sprinkle a very little flour on the board to prevent the paste sticking. N.B.—In making paste we should always keep our hands well floured to prevent its sticking to them. 13. We take the paste out of the basin and put it on the board. 14. We cut off about one-third of the paste and lay it aside for the cover or top of the pudding. 15. We roll out the remainder of the paste to a round twice the size of the top of the basin ; it should be about one-third of an inch in thickness. 16. We line the basin inside smoothly with the paste. 17. We place the slices of meat and kidney in the basin, fitting them neatly in. 18. We pour in about one gill and a half of water, so as to fill the basin to within half an inch of the top. 19. We roll the remaining pieces of paste to a round, the size of the top of the basin, to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 20. We wet the edge of the paste in the basin with cold water, and cover over the top of the basin with the round of paste. 21. We must join the paste together at the edge of the basin, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 22. We take a knife, flour it, and trim the edges of the paste neatly round. 23. We take a small pudding cloth, wring it out in warm water, and flour it. 24. We put this cloth over the top of the basin, tying it on tightly with a piece of string under the rim of the basin. 25. We tie the four corners of the cloth together over the top of the pudding.N.B.—This pudding might be made of beef skirt or Australian beef. Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Beef Steak Ptedding. 127 26. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding and let it boil for two hours. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. N.B.—We should keep a kettle of boiling water and fill up the saucepan, as the water in it boils away. 27. After that time we take the puddhig out of the sauce- pan and take off the cloth. 28. We place a hot dish on the top of the pudding, turn the basin and dish quite over, and carefully raising the basin, we should leave the pudding in the middle of the dish unbroken. It is then ready for serving.128 National Training School for Cookery. PIG'S FRY. Average cost of this dish, i.e.y “Poor Maris Goose ” (i quart dish)— INGREDIENTS. d. i lb. of pig’s fry . 6 2,\ lbs. of potatoes 2,\ i onion ok Sage and seasoning o| 9a Time required about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to cook Pig's Fry—“Poor Mans Goose!' 1. We take two pounds and a half of potatoesy and put them in a basin of cold water. 2. We take a scrubbing brush and scrub and wash the potatoes well. 3. We put the potatoes into a saucepan of cold water. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 5. As soon as it boils we take the potatoes out of the water (N.B.—This is called par-boiling potatoes), we peel them, and cut them in slices with a sharp knife. 6. We take one onion and peel it. 7. We take two or three sage-leaves and put them on a board. 8. We chop up the onion and sage together on the board with a sharp knife. 9. We take one pound of pig's fry and cut it in small pieces. 10. We take a quart pie-dish and grease the dish with dripping or fat. 11. We put a layer of sliced potatoes in the bottom of the pie-dish. 12. We sprinkle a little of the chopped sage and oniont pepper and salt, over the potatoes.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Pig's Fry. 129 18. We now put a layer of the pig's fry. 14. We sprinkle a little of the chopped sage and onion, pepper and salt, over the pig's fry. 15. Now we add another layer of sliced potatoes, and sprinkle them with a little of the chopped sage and onion, pepper and salt. 16. We put in another layer of pig's fry, and sprinkle the remainder of the chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt on the top. 17. We cover these layers with the rest of the sliced potatoes. 18. We now fill up the pie-dish with water for gravy. 19. We take the skin usually sent with the pig's fry and put it over the top of the pie-dish. 20. If the skin be not sent we must take a piece of whitey- brown paper and grease it with some dripping or fat> and put that over the pie-dish instead. 21. We put the pie-dish into a moderate oven to bake for from three quarters of an hour to one hour. After that time it is ready for serving.130 National Training School for Cookery, PORK PIE. Average cost of “Pork Pie * (1 lb.) INGREDIENTS. s. d. £ lb. lard o 3 1 lb. pork (either loin or leg) o 10 Seasoning o oj x lb. of flour o 2 1 egg o 1 1 4-1- Time required two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Pork Pie. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of lard and a quarter of a pint of cold water into rather a large saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. N. B.—We must watch it, as if it boils over it will catch fire. 3. We take one pound of lean pork (cut either from the loin or from the leg), put it on a board, and cut it up in pieces of about one inch square. 4. We put one pound of flour into a basin. 5. When the lard and water are quite boiling, we pour them into the middle of the flour and mix them well with a spoon. 6. When the paste is cool enough we should knead it well with our hands. N.B.—More water must not be added, as the paste is required to be rather stiff. 7. We take the paste out of the basin, and put it on a floured board. 8. We cut off* a quarter of the paste, and the remainder we mould into the shape of a basin, pressing it inside with one hand and supporting it outside with the other. 9. We should shape it as evenly as possible, and it should be about one-third of an inch in thickness all round. 10. We should take a knife, flour it, and cut the top of the shape level all round.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Pork Pie. 131 11. We dip the pieces of pork into cold water, then season them well with pepper and salt. 12. We should put these pieces inside the mould of paste as close together as possible. N.B.—The pie can be flavoured, if liked, with chopped sage, about a tea- spoonful sprinkled well amongst the pieces of pork. 13. We take the remainder of the paste and roll it out (with a floured rolling pin), and cut it to the size of the top of the mould and to about the thickness of one-third of an inch. 14. We take an egg and break it into two cups, dividing the yolk from the white. 15. We take a paste brush, dip it into the white of egg, and egg the edge of the mould of paste. 16. We take the piece of paste and put it over the top of the pie, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 17. We cut little leaves out of the remaining paste, dip them in the white of the egg, and stick them on the top of the pie. 18. We wet the pie all over with the folk of egg. 19. We put the pie in a moderate oven to bake for two hours. After that time it is ready for serving.132 National Training School for'Cookery, SEA PIE. Average cost of a “ Sea Pie99 (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of buttock steak at iod. 2 onions i small carrot \ Pepper and salt j | lb. of flour \ lb. of suet ) i teaspoonful of baking powder s. d. i 8 o i o oj o if O 2 I 3. 4 Time required about two hotel's. Now we will show you howto make a Sea Pie. 1. We put two pounds of buttock steak on a board, and cut it in slices with a sharp knife. 2. We take two onions, peel them, and slice them as thinly as possible. 3. We take a small carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in thin slices. 4. We season the slices of meat with pepper and salt to taste. 5. We put the slices of meat in layers in a two quart saucepan, sprinkling a little of the sliced vegetables on each layer of the meat. 6. We pour in enough cold water just to cover the meat. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then move it to the side of the fire to simmer. N.B.—During this time we make the crust. 8. We take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop it up as finely as possible. 9. We should sprinkle a little flour over the suet, to prevent it sticking to the board or knife. 10. We put three quarters of a pound of flour i^to a basin.133 Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sea Pie. and mix into it half a saltspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of baking powder. 11. We now put in the chopped suet and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 12. We add sufficient cold water to mix it into a stiff paste. 13. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 14. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to the size of the saucepan. 15. This quantity of paste will roll out to the size of a two quart saucepan, so that if a smaller saucepan is used less paste will be required. 16. We put this paste over the meat in the saucepan, and let it simmer gently for one hour and a half. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 17. We must watch it, and be careful to pass a knife round the sides of the saucepan, or the paste will stick. N.B.—Sailors add sliced potatoes to the fie when they can get them. 18. For serving, we carefully remove the crust, turn the meat, vegetables, and gravy on to a hot dish, and place the crust over it134 National Training School for Cookery. BOILED PIG’S HEAD (salted) WITH ONION SAUCE. Average cost of “ Pig's Head " 5 d. or 6d.per lb. INGREDIENTS. For " Brawn.' \ a pig’s head .. 40 peppercorns .. 2 blades of mace 4 cloves 12 allspice A bunch of herbs 2 large onions .. s. d. 1 3 For “ Onion Sauce.” d. 3 onions if 3 gills of milk if 1 oz. of flour of | oz. of butter 1 A Pepper and salt J 2 3% Time required [after salting) for boiling pig's head about two hours ; for making i?ito brawn, two hours. Now we will show you how to boil Pig's Head. 1. We take a pig's head, wash it thoroughly in plenty of tepid water. 2. We take out the brains and throw them away. 3. We cut out the little veins and all the splinters of bone. 4. We wash the head in all parts with plenty of salty thoroughly cleansing it from blood. 5. We lay the head in pickle (see Pickle for Meat) for three days. 6. When the head is salted, we put it into a saucepan with cold water enough to cover it. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 8. When it boils we draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for from one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size and age of the pig. N.B.—Boiled pig’s head is eaten with boiled rabbit, or with veal, or with* onion sauce. N.B.—If preferred the pig’s head can be made into brawn (see below). For making Onion Sauce, 9. We take three or four onions, peel them, and cut them in quarters.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Pig's Head. 135 10. We put them into a saucepan with water enough to cover them. 11. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil until the onions are quite tender. 12. We then strain them off, throw the water away, put the onions on a board, and chop them up small. 13. We throw the onions into a saucepan with three gills (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk, put it on the fire, and let it come to the boil. 14. We put one ounce of flour into a basin and mix it with half an ounce of hitter into a paste with a knife. 15. We stir this paste smoothly into the boiling milk and onions, and continue to stir it until it boils. 16. We season the sauce with pepper and salt to taste, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep warm till required for use. 17. We take a grater and grate some bread crumbs on to a plate. 18. We put the plate in the oven or in a Dutch oven to brown the bread crumbs.. 19. When the pig's head is sufficiently boiled we take it out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish. 20. We take out the tongue, skin it, and put it back on the dish with the head. 21. We sprinkle the browned bread crwnbs over th0 pig's head, and pour the onion sauce round it, or, if preferred, it may be served separately in a sauce boat. For making the pig's head into Brawn. 1. We salt and boil the pig's head in the same way as above from Note 1 to Note 8. 2. When the pig's head is sufficiently boiled we take it out of the saucepan and put it on a board. 3. We cut all the meat off the bones, and cut it into small pieces the shape of dice ; we also cut up the ear and the tongue (the tongue should be previously skinned).136 National Training School for Cookery. 4. We put the bones back into the saucepan with a quart of the liquor (in which the head was boiled), forty pepper- corns > two blades of mace, four cloves, and twelve allspice. 5. We also add a bunch of herbs, namely, <2 sprig op marjoram, thyme, and two leaves tied tightly together. 6. We take two onions, peel them, cut them in quarters, and put them into the saucepan. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it come to the boil, we should remove the lid and let the liquor reduce for about half an hour. 8. After that time we strain the liquor into a basin. 9. We pour one pint and a half of the strained liquor back into the saucepan and put it on the fire. 10. We now put the pieces of meat into the liquor, season it with pepper (and salt if necessary) to taste, and let it come to the boil. 11. We take a basin or tin mould, rinse it in cold water. 12. We then pour the meat and the liquor together into the wet basin or tin, and stand it aside to get cold and set. 13. For serving we turn the brawn out of the basin on to a dish.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sheep's Head. 137 SHEEP’S HEAD. Average cost of “ Sheep's Head,” consisting of I quart of broth and 1 dish of boiled sheep's head, with vegetables or Brozvned sheep's head. INGREDIENTS. 1 sheep’s head Salt 1 oz. of rice 4 peppercorns 2 turnips 1 carrot 1 onion 2 small head of celery 1 sprig of thyme V 2 sprigs of parsley j Toasted crusts of bread 2 oz. of flour 1 oz. clarified dripping or | oz. butter s. d. 1 o o Oj O I o o| o o\ O 2 o o| O Oj o ol I si Time required (after the sheep's head has been soakedfor 2 hours), one and a half hours. Now we will show you how to cook Sheep's Head. 1. We take a sheep's head (which has been previously chopped half way through by the butcher) and put it in a basin of warm water, with a dessertspoonful of salt. 2. We should wash the head thoroughly, carefully re- moving the brains (which should be put aside) and all the splinters of the bones. N. B. —If this be not thoroughly done, the sheep’s head will be spoiled. 3. We now put the sheep's head in a basin of salt and watery to soak for two hours. 4. After the head has been soaked, we take it out of the water, and carefully cut the tongue out with a knife. 5. We tie the head together with a piece of string, to keep it in shape. 6. We put the head and the tongue in a large saucepan. 7. We pour in sufficient lukewarm water to cover the head.138 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We add a good saltspoonful of salt, and 4 peppercorns. N.B.—If liked, one ounce of pearl barley, previously washed, may be now added. 9. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it boil very gently for 1 hour. 10. We must watch it and skim it occasionally with a spoon, removing as much of the fat as possible. 11. We take two turnips, wash them in cold water, peel them, and cut them in quarters with a sharp knife. 12. We take a carrot, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in pieces. 13. We take a good-sized onion, peel it, and cut it in quarters. 14. We take half a small head of celery, and two sprigs of parsley, and wash them in cold water. 15. When the sheep's head has boiled for an hour, we should add all these vegetables. 16. We take one ounce of rice, wash it well in cold water, and add it to the saucepan. 17. We also add one sprig of thyme. 18. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for one hour and a half. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 19. Half an hour before the sheep's head is finished, we wash the brains well in cold water (removing all the skin). 20. We tie the brains up in a piece of muslin and put them in the saucepan with the head, to boil for ten mhmtes. 21. We put one ounce of clarified dripping, or half an ounce of butter, into a small saucepan. 22. We put the saucepan on the fire to melt the drip- ping, and then add half an ounce of flour and mix them well together with a spoon. 23. We take 07iegill (a quarter of a pint) of broth from the saucepan in which the head is boiling, and add it by degrees to the sauce, stirring it as smoothly as possible until it boils and thickens. 24. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sheep's Head. 139 25. When the trains have boiled for ten minutes we take them out of the saucepan, take them out of the muslin, and chop them up in small pieces with a knife. 28. We add the brains to the sauce. 27. When the sheeps head is sufficiently cooked we take It out of the saucepan, cut away the string, and place it on a warm dish. 28. We take the tongue, skin it carefully, and place it on the same dish. 29. We take out the turnips, put them in a basin, and mash them with a fork. SO. We take out the carrot and arrange it alternately with the mashed turnips round the sheeps head. 31. We take the brain sauce and pour it over the sheeps head. 32. We should pour the broth carefully into a basin, without the bread or vegetables. N.B.—Bread or vegetables should never be kept in broth, as they would turn it sour. S3. We put the basin of broth away until required for use. N.B.—All the fat should be removed from the broth before it is used. N.B.—When the broth is required for use, a few toasted crusts of bread might be added, and a little chopped parsley. N.B.—The fat from the broth should be melted down into dripping. N.B.—If the sheep’s head be preferred browned. 1. We proceed as above (see from Note 1 to Note 17). 2. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for one hour. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 3. We take a piece of stale bread and grate a tablespoon- fid of bread crumbs with a grater. 4. We mix with these crumbs a teaspoonful of parsley> and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, chopped up finely. 5. When the head has simmered for one hour, we take it out of the saucepan.140 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We cut away the string round it, and lay it on a dish. 7. We sprinkle the bread crumbs and herbs over the head, and put a few tiny pieces of dripping on it. 8. We put the dish in the oven, or in front of the fire, for ten to fifteen minutes ; it will be then ready for serving. 9. We take the brains and wash them well in cold water (removing all the skin). 10. We tie the brains up in a piece of muslin and put them in the saucepan of broth (in which the sheep's head was boiled) to boil for ten minutes. N.B.—For serving, the tongue should be skinned as above, and served separately with the brain sauce (see above from Note 21 to Note 27). 11. We proceed with the broth the same as above, from Note 32.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Grilled Steak. 141 A GRILLED STEAK. Average cost of —“ Grilled Steak!' INGREDIENTS. cr. i lb rump steak 8 Lemon, salt,'•and parsley i Rutter and salad oil , i io Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to Grill a Steak (either beef or rump steak will do, but the latter is more tender). 1. We take a small bunch of parsley} wash it, dry it well in a cloth, and put it on a board. 2. We must chop thparsley up very fine with a knife. 3. We take a quarter of an ounce of butter and mix it well with the chopped parsley. 4. We sprinkle over it pepper and salt (according to taste), and six drops of lemon juice. 5. We make it all up into a small pat. 6. We take half a pound of rump steak, half an inch in thickness. 7. We pour about a tablespoonful of salad oil on to a plate. 8. We dip both sides of the steak into the oil. 9. We take a gridiron and warm it well by the fire. 10. We place the oiled steak on the gridiron, and hang it on the bars of the stove close to the fire to cook quickly. N.B.—If the meat is at all frozen it must be warmed gradually through, before putting it quite near the fire, or it will be tough. 11. We must turn the gridiron with the steak occa- sionally ; it will take from ten to twelve minutes, according to the brightness and heat of the fire. 12. When the steak is sufficiently cooked, we must place it on a hot dish ; and we should be careful not to stick142 National Training School for Cookery. the fork into the meat (or the gravy will run out, but into the fat). 13. We take the pat of green butter and put it on the steak, spreading it all over with a knife. It is now ready for serving.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Stewed Steak. 143 STEWED STEAK. Average cost for “ Stewing a Steak.” INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of rump steak 1 carrot 1 turnip 2 onions £ oz. of butter b oz. of flour ) Pepper and salt J 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup .... 1 7\ Time required, about one hour. s. d. 1 4 o o^ O 03 O I o oi o 0} o o'- Now we will show you how to Stew a Steak (either beef or rump steak will do, the latter is more tender). 1. We take one pound of rump steak, one and a half inch in thickness, and put it on a board. 2. We cut off all the skin, and fat from the steak. 3. We take one carrot, one turnip, and wash them weli in cold water. 4. We take a sharp knife, scrape the carrot clean, and cut it up to the shape of dice. 5. We take the turnip, peel it, and cut it up to the shape of dice. 6. We take two small onions, peel them, and cut them in quarters. 7. We put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put it on the fire, and when the butter is melted, we put the steak in it to fry brown on both sides. 8. We put the onion, the carrot, and turnip, into the stewpan with the steak. 9. We take a basin and put in it half an ounce of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and mix them together with a wooden spoon. 10. We stir in gradually half a pint of water.144 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We pour this sauce into the stewpan, with the steak and vegetables, and stir all together until it boils and thickens. 12. We let it gently simmer one hour. 18. We take the fat which we have cut off the steak, and cut it into small pieces. 14. We put the pieces of fat on a tin dish. 15. We put the fat in the oven to cook till brown. N.B.—It is better for stewed steak, to cook the fat separately, as it keeps the gravy of the steak free from grease. 16. When the steak is sufficiently stewed, we must put it on a hot dish, put the vegetables round, and pour the sauce over; we take the tin dish out of the oven, and place the pieces of fat about on the steak. It is now ready for serving. N.B.—If liked, for serving the steak might be cut up in small pieces, about the size of a veal cutlet, and the vegetables arranged on each piece of steak, or in the centre. About a teaspoonfrtl of chopped parsley sprinkled over the top is an improvement to the taste and look.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Toad in the Hole. 145 TOAD IN THE HOLE. Average cost of “ Toad in the Holed INGREDIENTS. | lb. of flour 2 eggs I pint of milk II lbs. of meat (either beef or mutton) .. Seasoning s. d. o 1 0 2 Q 2| 1 O i 5k Time required, about one hour and three quarters. Now we will show you how to make Toad in the Hole. 1. We put eight ounces of flour into a basin, with half a saltspoonful of salt. 2. We break two eggs into the flour, and stir in smoothly,, and by degrees, one pint of milk. N.B.—We must be careful that it is not lumpy. 3. We should beat it up as much as possible, as it will make the batter lighter. 4. We take one pound of meat, put it on a board, and cut it in neat pieces. N.B.—Buttock steak, beef skirt, or any pieces of mutton might be used; for instance, the short bones from the neck of mutton. Sausages or cold meat might very well be used. 5. We take a pie dish or a tin and grease it inside with clarified dripping. 6. We season the pieces of meat with pepper and salt, and place them in the greased dish. 7. We pour the batter over the meat, and put the dish in the oven to bake for one hour. 8. After that time it is ready for serving. K146 National Training School for Cookery. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Average cost of “Bubble and Squeak” INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of boiled salt beef, or pork o io| 1 cabbage o 2 1 o| Time required, about half-an-hour. Now we will show you how to make Bubble and Squeak. 1. We take a cabbage, and wash it well in salt and water. 2. We put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil, we add a tablespoonful of salt, and a tiny piece of common soda, about the size of a pea. 3. When the water boils, we put in the cabbage, and let it boil for about twenty minutes. We should feel the stalk with a fork to see if it is tender, and then drain off all the water, and put the cabbage on a plate. N.B.—Any remains of cold boiled cabbage could be used instead of boiling a fresh one. 4. We cut some thin slices of cold salt beef, and a little of the fat, and put them in a frying pan. 5. We put the pan over the fire, and fry the meat a light brown. We must turn the slices occasionally, and not let them burn. 6. We arrange the slices in the centre of a hot dish, cover the dish, and stand it in the oven to keep warm. 7. We take the boiled cabbage, put it on a board, chop it up in small pieces, and put it in the frying pan to fry, a few minutes. We must stir it, and not let it burn, or stick to the pan. N.B.—If there are any remains of cold boiled carrots ox parsnips, they could be chopped up and warmed in a saucepan with about § 02. of clarified dripping. 8. For serving, we put the fried cabbage, and carrots or parsnips round the dish, and the slices of meat in the centre.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Mutton Broth. 147 MUTTON BROTH. Average cost of “ Mutton Broth ” {about five pints). INGREDIENTS. 3 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, 10d. per lb 2 oz. of pearl barley or rice x turnip z onion 2 leeks 1 carrot 1 teaspoonful of parsley ) Salt and pepper J 2 9I Time required, about two hours and a quarter. o o| Now we will show you how to make Mutton Broth. 1. We take two ounces of pearl barley, wash it well, and put it in a basin of cold water to soak. 2. We put three pounds of the scrag end of the neck of mutton on a board, and cut it up in joints. 3. We wash the pieces of mutton in cold water, and tKe% put them in a stewpan with three quarts of cold water, put the stewpan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil, skim it well, and add a teaspoonful of salt (which will encourage the scum to rise), skim it again, and move it to the side of the fire, to simmer gently for one hour and a half; we must watch it, and skim it occasionally. 4. We take a turnip and an onion, wash them, and peel them. 5. We take a carrot, wash it, and scrape it. 6. We take two leeks, cut off the tops of the green leaves, and wash them well. 7. We cut up all the vegetables to the shape of dice. 8. When the mutton has simmered long enough, we strain off the liquor into a basin, and take the mutton, and cut up all the meat into small pieces.148 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We return the liquor to the saucepan, add the meat, vegetables, the soaked barley, and pepper and salt to taste, and put the saucepan by the side of the fire, to simmer gently, for about half an hour; until the vegetables are tender. 10. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it, and chop up finely on a board. 11. When the broth is finished, we must skim off all the grease, and then add the chopped parsley. 12. For serving, we pour the broth into a hot soup tureen.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Roast Rabbit Stuffed. 149 ROAST RABBIT STUFFED. Average cost of “ Stuffed Rabbity INGREDIENTS. z Rabbit £ lb. of bread crumbs 2 oz. of suet A teaspoonful of chopped parsley A teaspoonful of chopped herbs (marjoram and thyme) A little grated lemon rind and nutmeg .. Salt and pepper 1 egg x onion 1 shalot 2 pint of stock 1 oz. of flour 1 oz. of butter .r. d. 1 9 o 1 o it O I* Time required, about one hour and three quarters. Now we will show you how to Stuff and Roast a Rabbit. 1. We take a rabbit (which has been skinned and pro- perly prepared for cooking), wash it well in cold water, and wipe it dry inside. 2. We take the rabbit's liver, put it in a small saucepan, and cover it with water, put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil we should take out the liter.; and put it on a board. N.B.—This is called parboiling the liver. 3. We chop up the liver into small pieces. 4. We place a wire sieve over the board, take some crumb of bread\ and rub it through the sieve, there should be about a quarter of a pound of breadcrumbs. 5. We put two ounces of suet on the board, cut away the skin, and chop it up finely. 6. We take a sprig of thyme and marjoram, and about two sprigs of parsley, take away the stalks, and chop them them up finely, there should be about a dessertspoonful. 7. We put the liver, breadcrumbs, suet, and mixed herbs into a basin, we also grate over about half a teaspoonful of150 National Framing School for Cookery. lemon rind and nutmeg (as much as would cover one side of a 3d. piece), we season it with pepper and salt to taste, add one egg, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 8. We fill the inside of the rabbit with this stuffing, and sew it up with string. 9. For trussing it, we place it on a board, cut off the fore joints of the shoulders and legs, press the legs close to the body on either side, and pass a skewer through each to secure them : draw back the head between the shoulders, and pass a skewer through to keep it back. 10. We grease a piece of paper with some clarified dripping or butter, and wrap it round the rabbit, to prevent it burning; we put it on a tin with about an ounce of clarified dripping. 11. We put the tin in a hot oven to bake for about one hour; we must watch it frequently and baste it well; a few minutes before it is done, we should remove the buttered paper, and sprinkle over the rabbit about a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and baste it well. 12. While the rabbit is baking we should make the sauce: we take one small onion and a shalot, peel them, cut them in slices, and put them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter. 13. We put the pan over the fire, and let the onion fry for about three minutes ; it must not burn. 14. We now add one ounce of flour, and stir it well; we pour in half a pint of stock, and stir well till it boils and thickens; we season it with pepper and salt to taste, and move the stewpan to the side of the fire to keep warm. N.B.—If mushrooms can be obtained they would improve the sauce: about six would be wanted, well washed, peeled, and cut in quarters, added to the sauce, and stewed in it gently for ten minutes. 15. For serving, we take the rabbit out of the oven, place it on a hot dish, carefully remove the skewers, and pour the sauce through a strainer over the rabbit.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Liver and Bacon. 151 LIVER AND BACON. Average cost of “ Liver and Bacon? INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 lbs. sheep’s or calf’s liver i 4 1 lb. bacon 1 o 1 dessertspoonful of flour 1 Pepper and salt > o o| I small onion ) 2 4! Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to cook Liver and Bacon. 1. We take one pound of bacon, put it on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 2. We cut the rind off each slice of bacon. 8. We put these slices of bacon into a frying-pan. 4. We put the frying-pan on the fire to fry the bacon. It will take about ten minutes. N.B.—If the bacon is not very fat, we must put a small piece of dripping in the frying-pan with the bacon. 5. We should turn it when one side is fried. 6. We now take two pounds of sheep's or calf's liver, put it on a board, and cut it in slices. 7. We put about two ta blespoonsfid of flour on a plate. 8. We dip the slices of liver into the flour, and flour them well on both sides. 9. When the bacon is fried we take it out of the frying- pan and put it on a warm dish. 10. We stand the dish near the fire to keep warm. 11. We put the slices of liver in the frying-pan, a few at a time, as they must not be on the top of each other. N.B.—If the flavour of onion is liked, a small onion, peeled, and cut in slices, might be fried with the liver. 12. The liver will take about a quarter of an hour to fry. 13. We should watch it occasionally, and turn it once. 14. To see when the liver is sufficiently cooked we152 National Training School for Cookery. should cut a slice ; the inside should be of a brownish colour. 15. When the liver is all cooked we should place it on the dish with the bacon. 16. We put a dessertspoonful of flour in a cup, and mix it into a smooth paste with nearly a gill (quarter of a pint) of water. 17. We pour the flour and water into the frying-pan and stir it until it boils and thickens. 18. We add pepper and salt to taste, and pour this sauce over the liver and bacon. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Brain Cakes. 153 BRAIN CAKES. Average cost of “ Brain Cakes ” (about 6 cakes). INGREDIENTS. Calfs or sheep’s brains (about 5 ozs.) x oz. of flour £ oz. of butter Pepper and salt \ teaspoonful of chopped parsley .., Nutmeg 2 sage leaves 2 eggs 3 oz. of bread crumbs } * 7} Time required, abotit two hours. Now we will show you how to make Brain Cakes. 1. We take the brains, wash them well in cold water, to remove all impurities, then put them in a stewpan, cover them with cold water, and add one teaspoonful of salt, and Izuo sage leaves. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil, we should skim it well, and move it rather to the side of the fire, to boii gently for ten minutes. 3. After that time, we turn the brains on to a plate, and when quite cold, we should cut them up in small pieces. 4. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely on a board ; there should be about half a teaspoonful. 5. We place a wire sieve over a plate, take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve ; there should be about three ounces of bread-crumbs. 6. We put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put it over the fire, and when it is melted, stir in one ounce of flour; we also add one gill (quarter of a pint) of cold water, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; we stir it all over the fire, until it boils, and thickens. 7. We now add two ounces of bread-crumbs, and the brains; and take a grater and a nutmegs and give two154 National Training School for Cookery. grates of the nutmeg over the sauce ; add pepper, and salt to taste, and mix all well together. 8. We take an egg, break it, put the white in a cup (it is not required for present use), and add the yolk to the sauce, and stir well over the fire till cooked ; it will take about five minutes. 9. We must then turn the mixture on to a plate, and stand it aside to cool. 10. We put one pound of clarified dripping or lard into a deep stewpan, and put it on the fire to heat: we must be careful it does not burn. 11. When the mixture is quite cold, we divide it into pieces of equal size, and form them into cakes; we must sprinkle some flour over them, to prevent them from sticking. 12. We break an egg on to a plate, and beat it up slightly with a knife. 13. We dip the cakes into the egg,; and egg them well all over with a paste-brush. 14. We take the rest of the bread-crumbs, and cover the cakes well all over with them. 15. We take a frying basket, and arrange the cakes in it; we must finger them as little as possible, and not allow them to touch each other. 16. When the fat is quite hot, and smoking (we should test the heat of it by throwing in a piece of bread, which should fry brown directly), we put in the frying basket, for two minutes or so, to fry the cakes a pale yellow. 17. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate, and as the cakes are fried, we turn them on to the paper, to drain off the grease. 18. For serving, we arrange the cakes tastily on a hot dish, and, if liked, garnish them with fried parsley (see Vege- tables, Lesson No. 4, note 20).Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Braised Liver. 155 BRAISED LIVER. Average cost of “ Braised Liver." INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of sheep’s liver 2 oz. of fat bacon 1 carrot 1 onion, or i doz. button onions Bouquet garni (i.e. sprig of thyme, parsley, and bay leaf) 1 oz. of flour Salt and pepper 2 oz. of butter d. 1 1 2 Time required, abotit 2 hours and half. Now we will show you how to lard and braise liver. 1. We take two ounces of fat bacon, put it on a board, and cut it into strips one inch long, and one eighth of an inch in width and thickness. 2. We take a larding needle with a little strip of bacon in it, and lard half a pound of sheep's liver neatly, in regular rows, until one side is entirely covered with strips of bacon. 3. We put two ounces of butter and the larded liver into a stewpan, put it over the fire, and fry the liver brown ; we must be careful not to burn it. 4. We now take out the liver,; and put it on a plate. 5. We stir smoothly into the butter; in the stewpan, one ounce of flour, and pour in one pint of stock or water, place the stewpan over the fire, and stir well till it boils and thickens, then move it to the side of the fire. 6. We take a carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in half. 7. We take an onion or one dozen button onions, wash them, and peel them carefully. 8. We add these vegetables, and the liver to the stewpan, and season with pepper and salt, to taste ; we also add a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of thyme, parsley, and a bay leaf, tied tightly together.156 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We let it all simmer gently for two hours. 10. After that time we take the liver out of the stewpan, and put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce through a strainer over the liver, and if there are any button onions, they should be carefully taken out of the strainer, and served in the sauce, with thq liver. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Haricot Mutton. 15 7 HARICOT MUTTON. Average cost of “ Haricot Mutton!' INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton .... 2 onions v .. 2 carrots 2 turnips 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup I oz. of clarified dripping V 1 oz. of flour \ Pepper and salt ) j. d. i A o i 0 1 o 1 0 2 o f 1 H Time required, about two hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Haricot Mutton. 1. We take the mutton, wash it well, dry it, put it on a. board, and cut it up in pieces; if it is very fat, we must cut the fat away. N.B.—Any pieces of mutton can be used instead. 2. We put the pieces of mutton in a saucepan, with one ounce of dripping, put it over the fire, to fry the mutton brown; we must watch it, and turn che pieces, to fry both sides. 3. We take tzvo carrots, wash them, scrape them cleam with a knife, and cut them to the shape of dice. 4. We take two turnips, and tzvo onions, wash them, peel them, and cut them the same size as the carrots. 5. We add these vegetables to the saucepan, season it with pepper and salt to taste, and pour in one pint and a half of cold water. 6. We put one ounce of flour into a basin, and mix it to a smooth paste, with about a tablespoonful of water, we stir this paste into the saucepan, and stir well over the fire till it boils, we must skim it well and add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, to simmer gently for two hours. 7. For serving, we arrange the meat in a circle on a hot dish, place the vegetables in the centre, and pour the sauce all over.158 National Training School for Cookery. CALFS-HEAD, ROLLED AND STUFFED- Average cost of “ Calf s-head? INGREDIENTS. s. d. ^ a calf’s-head 5 o 3 oz. of suet o 2 7 oz. of bread crumbs o 2 1 tablespoonful of mixed herbs (basil, mar- \ joram, thyme, and parsley) f 3 1 egg ( 0 x* Cayenne pepper and salt ) 1 gill of brown sauce o 35 1 gill of tomato sauce 1 iof 7 8 Time required, about three hours. Now we will show you how to cook Calf s-head. 1. We put the half head on a board, take a sharp knife, and commence from the lip, keep the knife close to the bone, and carefully remove the flesh in one piece. We cut out the longue and the brains, and put them aside. 2. We put the head and bones in cold water, while we make the forcemeat. 3. We take three ounces of beef suet, put it on a board, cut away all skin, and chop it up very finely with a knife. 4. We place a wire sieve over a piece of paper, take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. We weigh out six ounces of bread crumbs, the rest we put aside for further use. 5. We put a small sprig of thyme, of basil, of marjoram and of parsley, on a board, take away the stalks, and chop the herbs up very finely. (There should be a tablespoonful.) 6. We put the suet, bread crumbs, and mixed herbs into a basin, we also add about half a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, season it with pepper, and salt to taste, break in one egg, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 7. We take the head out of the water, lay it on a board, and dry it with a clean cloth. 8. We now place the forcemeat in the centre of the head, roll it up tightly in a clean cloth, and fasten it securely at both ends, with a piece of string.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Calf s-head. 159 9. We. put the rolled head, bones, and tongue into a large saucepan, and cover them with cold water, we also add a tablespoonful of salt. 10. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil, we must skim it carefully with a spoon, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, to simmer gently for two hours. 11. While the head is cooking we should prepare the sauce. We want one gill of brown sauce (see “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 2), and a gill of Tomato sauce (see“ Sauces,” Lesson No. 6). N.B.—If liked, the Tomato Sauce might be omitted. 12. We mix the sauces together, add a few grams of Cayenne pepper, and salt to taste, and pour it into a stew- pan, put the lid on, and stand it by the side of the fire, to keep warm till required for use. 13. Half an hour before the head is finished, we wash the brains in cold water (removing all skin), and put them into the saucepan with the head, to cook for ten minutes. 14. We take the remaining bread crumbs and put them on a plate in the oven to brown. N.B.—We must be careful they do not get burnt. 15. We now take the tongue, and brains out of the saucepan, and cut them in small pieces. 16. We break one egg on a plate, and beat it slightly. 17. We take the rolled head out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, and place it in the middle of a hot dish, egg it over with the egg, and then cover it with the browned bread crumbs. 18. We put the tongue and brains round the head, and pour the sauce round. It is now ready for serving. 19. We pour the stock through a strainer into a basin and stand it aside to get cold. N.B.—This stock should be used for mock turtle soup (see “ Soups,” Lesson No. 7, from paragraph 7) ; the remains of the calf s-head, after serving, can be used for the soup, the forcemeat should be removed, and can be used for the balls, and the flesh should be cut up in small pieces and put in the soup.160 National Training School for Cookery. SHEEP’S TROTTERS. Average cost of “Sheep's Trotterswith either “Piquante Sauce]' or “ White Sauce'.' INGREDIENTS. j. d. 4 trotters I 4 1 tablespoonful of vinegar ) x carrot / o 1 1 onion ) 1 oz. of flour o of 1 5? For Piquante Sauce. d. 1 carrot oh 1 onion of 1 shalot of 1 oz. butter 1 f oz. of flour of Pepper and salt 'j 1 dessertspoonful of Harvey Sauce j r dessertspoonful of Mushroom ' if Ketchup [ 1 tablespoonful of vinegar J | pint of brown stock 3f For White Sauce. d. 1 oz. butter 1 f oz. of flour of 1 gill of milk o:£ Pepper and salt 1 4 mushrooms (if obtainable).... > 2f f pint of stock from sheep’s trotters ) Time required, about four hours and a half. Now we will show you how to cook Sheep's Trotters. 1. We take the sheep's trotters, wash them well in a basin of cold water ; then put them in a stewpan, with sufficient cold water to cover them, put the stewpan on the fire, and when it boils, take the stewpan off, strain off the water, and put the trotters in a basin of cold water. N.B.—This is to blanch them. 2. We wash the stewpan out, wash the trotters tho- roughly, and then put them back in the stewpan. 3. We take a carrot, wash it, and scrape it clean with a sharp knife. 4. We take an onion, wash it, and peel it. 5. We put one ounce of flour into a basin, and mix it smoothly with a tablespoonful of cold water.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sheep's Trotters. 161 6. We now put the vegetables into the stewpan with the trotters, we also add a tablespoonful of vinegar, to? quarts of water, <372^ # tablespoonful of salt; and stir in the <2/2^ water. 7. We put the stewpan over the fire, and stir it till it just boils, then move it to the side of the fire, to simmer for four hours. 8. While the trotters are cooking, we should make the sauce, either piquante sauce, or white sauce, according to taste. For piquante sauce, or white sauce, the above pro- portion of ingredients should be used, and the sauces made in the same way as directed in “Sauces, Lessons No. 1 Afr. 4.” 9. After that time we take the trotters carefully out of the stewpan, and arrange them on a hot dish, and serve them with the sauce, which can either be poured over the trotters, or served separately in a sauce-boat, according to- taste. L162 National Training School for Cookery. TRUSSING A FOWL FOR BOILING. Average cost of a “Boiled Fowl” and “Egg Sauce.” INGREDIENTS. i fowl i| oz. of butter i carrot 1 small onion A bouquet of herbs 2 eggs i oz. of flower | pint of milk Gill of cream 3 8f Time required, about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to prepare a Fowl and truss it for boiling. 1. We take a fowl that has been already plucked, and put it on a board. 2. We prepare it and clean it in the same way as described in “ Trussing a Fowl for Roasting,” from Note I to Note 12. 3. We take a sharp knife and cut off the claws, and the end of the legs of the fowl to the first joint. 4. We take a twist of paper or taper and light it. 5. We take the fowl up by its legs, and hold the lighted paper under it to singe off the little hairs. 6. We then hold the fowl up by its wings and singe the other end. N.B.—We must be careful in singeing not to blacken or mark the fowl in any way. 7. We turn the fowl on its back with the tail towards us. 8. We put our hands through the incision (made for drawing the fowl), and pass two fingers round the inside of the leg, so as to loosen the outside skin. 9. We draw this outside skin right off the legs, and press the legs well into the sides of the fowl.\ forcing the breast up to give the fowl a good shape. s. 2 O o o o oCooking Poultry.—Tries sing Boiled Fowl. 163 10. We pull this outside skin and turn it neatly inside the fowl over the joints of the legs. 11. We turn the fowl on its breast, and draw tightly the breast skin over the incision on to the back of the neck. 12. We cross the ends of the wings over the back of the neck. 13. We now turn the fowl on its back with the neck towards us. 14. We take a trussing needle and thread it with fine twine. 15. We take the threaded trussing needle, and pass it through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and out on the other side through the other thigh. 16. We must now turn the fowl on its breast, and take the threaded trussing needle again, and pass it through the middle of the pinion or wing, through the little bone, called the sidesman or stepmother’s wing, catching up the skin which folds over the incision, and out through the other little bone and wing. 17. We must pull this twine very tightly and tie it as firmly as possible at the side of the fowl. 18. We turn the fowl over on its back, keeping the neck still towards us. 19. We put our finger in the incision (made for drawing the fowl), and lift up the end of the breast bone. 20. We take the threaded trussing needle and pass it through the skin over the bottom of the breast bone, over one leg, back through the body close to the back bone, and tie it firmly over the other leg at the side. 21. We take a piece of kitchen paper and butter it well. 22. We take this piece of buttered paper and wrap it well round the fowl. 23. We take a large saucepan half full of hot second white stock or zuater, and put it on the fire. N.B.—The reason why second white stock should be used is that the good- ness which comes from the fowl after boiling adds to the goodness of this stock, which can afterwards be used for soup. N. B.—If hot water be used, the goodness which comes from the foWl after boiling is only wasted, as it is not of sufficient strength to make the Large quantity of water of any use.164 National Training School for Cookery. 24. When the water is quite boiling, we place the fowl in the saucepan with its breast downwards. 25. We also put into the saucepan one carrot, which has been scraped, a small onion, which has been peeled, and a bouquet of herbs for flavouring. 26. The fowl will take from tlwee-quarters of an hour to one hour to boil, according to its size. N.B.—We must not allow it to boil fast, only to sivimer. The saucepan should be at the side of the fire. Now we must make the Egg Sauce to be served with the boiled fowl. N.B.—If liked, the eggs can be omitted, and only plain white sauce poured over the fowl for serving. 1. We take a small saucepan full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. When the water is quite boiling, we put in two eggs to boil for ten minutes. 3. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour. 4. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 5. We pour in half a pint of milk. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the mixture with a wooden spoon until it boils and thickens. 7. We must then remove the stewpan to the side of the fire until required for use. 8. When the eggs are sufficiently boiled, we take them carefully out of the saucepan with a spoon. 9. We take the eggs and knock them against the edge of a basin to break off all the shell. 10. We take a small basin of cold water. 11. We cut the eggs in half and take out the yolks. 12. We put the whites into cold water to prevent theit turning yellow. 13. We take the whites of the eggs out of the water and cut them to the shape of small dice. 14. We add the pieces of white of egg to the sauce in the stewpan.Cooking Poultry.—Trussing Boiled Fowl. 165 15. We now add one gill of cream to the sauce. 16. We move the stewpan to the centre of the fire, and stir well till it boils again. N.B.—We must be careful in stirring not to break the pieces of egg. 17. When the fowl is sufficiently boiled we take it out of the saucepan ; we take off the buttered paper, and place the fowl on a hot dish. 18. We take a knife and cut the twine, and draw it all out of the fowl. 19. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the sauce over the fowl. 20. We take a wire sieve with the hard boiled yolks of the eggs, place it over the fowl’ and rub the yolks through on to the breast. It is then ready for serving. N.B.—The neck, gizzard, liver, heart, and claws of the fowl (namely the Giblets), should be put aside, and when properly prepared can be used for soup (see “Soups,” Lesson No.. 6), or should be put in the stock pot. N.B.—To clean and prepare the giblets for use. A. We take the gizzard, cut it very carefully with a knife down the centre, where there is a sort of seam (we must be sure only to cut the first or outer skin), and draw off the outer skin without breaking the inside, which should be thrown away. B. We take the outer skin of the gizzard, the heart, and liver, wash them well in water, and dry them in a cloth. C. We take the neck, cut off the head, which is of no use, draw the skin off the neck, and wash the latter well in water, so as to remove the blood and any impurities. D. We put the claws and ends of legs in a basin of boiling water for some minutes, then take a knife, cut off the nails, and draw off the outer skin, which can be pulled off like a glove.166 National Training School for Cookery. TRUSSING A FOWL FOR ROASTING. Average cost of “Roasting a Fowl” and making “Bread Sauced INGREDIENTS. i fowl i oz. of butter i penny roll or a gill of bread crumbs i onion | pint of milk 5 peppercorns Salt x tablespoonful of cream 3 Time required, about three quarters of an hoitr. 2 O O o o o o Now we will show you how to prepare a Fowl and truss it for roasting. 1. We take a suitable fowl that has been already plucked, and put it on a board. 2. We turn the fowl on its breast, and make an incision of an inch long down the neck, three inches below the head. 3. We pass our thumb round this incision and loosen the skin. 4. We take a sharp knife and put it under the skin> and cut off the neck as near the body as possible. 5. We must be careful in cutting off the neck to leave a piece of skin to fold over on to the back of the neck and cover the opening. 6. We take out the crop which lies in the front of the neck. 7. Then with our finger we loosen the liver and the other parts at the breast end. 8. We must now turn the fowl round, and make an inci- sion at the vent, about one inch and a half wide. 9. We must put our hand through this incision into the body and draw out all the interiors carefully, so as not to mess the fowl.Cooking Poultry.—Trussing Roast Fowl. 167 10. We must be very careful not to break the gall bag, or the liver will be spoiled. N.B.—We take the liver, heart, and gizzard, and put them in a basin of water, with about half a teaspoonful of salt; the other interiors should be thrown away. N.B.—We should look through the fowl from one end to the other and see it is perfectly cleared out. 11. We take a damp cloth and wipe out the inside of the fowl to clean it thoroughly. N.B.—If the fowl is not quite fresh, we should use a little vinegar and water on the cloth we use for cleaning it, and then take a clean cloth and wipe it quite dry. 12. We take a sharp knife and cut off the claws from the legs of thz fowl. 13. We take a basin of boiling water, and hold the end of the legs of the fowl in the water for a minute or two. 14. We then take off the outside skin as far as to the first joint. 15. We take a twist of paper or a taper and light it. 16. We take the fowl up by its legs and hold the lighted paper under it to singe off the little hairs. 17. We then hold the fozvl up by its wings and singe the other end. N.B.—We must be careful in singeing not to blacken or mark the fowl in any way. 18. We turn the fowl on its breast, and draw tightly the breast skin over the incision on to the back of the neck. 19. We cross the ends of the wings over the back of the neck. 20. We now turn the fowl on its back with the neck towards us, 21. We take a trussing needle and thread itwith fine twine. 22. We hold the legs up and press the thighs well into the sides of the fowl, forcing the breast up to give the fowl a good shape. 23. We take the threaded trussing needle, and pass it through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and out on the other side through the other thigh. N.B —If liked, a part of the gizzard and liver (when cleaned, see Note at the end of “Trussing a Fowl for Boiling”) can be put into the wings of the fowl.168 National Training School for Cookery. 24. We must now turn the fowl on its breast, and take the threaded trussing needle again, and pass it through the middle of the pinion or wing, through the little bone called the sidesman or stepmother’s wing, catching up the skin which folds over the incision, and out through the other little bone and wing. 25. We must pull this twine very tightly and tie it as firmly as possible at the side of the fowl. 26. We turn the fowl over on its back, keeping the neck still towards us. 27. We put our finger in the incision (made for drawing the fowl) and lift up the end of the breast bone. 28. We take the threaded trussing needle and pass it through the skin over the bottom of the breast bone, over the end of one leg, back through the body close to the backbone, and tie it firmly over the other leg at the side. N.B.—If there is no gravy ready for serving with the roast fowl, we should prepare it now (see Note at the end). 29. We now put the screen with the jack and dripping- pan before the fire. 80. We must make up the fire in the same manner as described in Roasting. N.B.—We do not require such a large fire as for roasting meat. 31. We take the trussed fowl and pass the hook of the jack through the back of the fowl\ and hang it up on the jack. N.B.—If the fire is very fierce, we should take a piece of whitey brown paper, butter it, and tie it over the fowl so as to prevent it from burning. 32. We put one ounce of butter in the dripping-pan to melt. 33. We use this melted butter to baste the fowl, as the fowl is not very fat, there will not be much dripping from it. 34. The fowl will take from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour to roast, according to its size. 35. We must baste the fowl frequently. N.B.—While the fowl is roasting, we should make the bread sauce (see below). N.B.—If liked, the roast fowl can be garnished with rolls of bacon (see the end of “Veal Cutlets," Entries, Lesson No. 6).Cooking Poultry.—Trussing Roast Fowl, 169 36. When the fowl is quite done, we take it off the jack, and put it on a hot dish. 37. We take a knife and cut the twine, and draw it all out of the fowl\ and take off the paper before serving. For making Bread Sauce. 1. We take a French penny roll or a gill of bread crumbs, and cut it in half. 2. We pull out all the inside crumb, and put it on a plate. 3. We pull this crumb apart into small pieces. 4. We take a small onion, and peel it with an onion knife. 5. We take a small stewpan and put in it the peeled onion. 6. We pour in half a pint of milk. 7. We now put in the crumb of the roll. 8. We add five peppercorns, and salt to taste. 9. We stand the stewpan aside with the lid on, for a quarter of an hour, to soak the crumb. 10. After that time we put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the sauce smoothly with a wooden spoon, until it boils. 11. We now add a tablespoonful of cream, and stir the sauce until it just boils again. 12. Before serving the sauce, we must take out the oniont and pour the sauce into a sauce tureen. N.B.—The neck, gizzard, liver, and claws of the fowl, when properly pre- pared (see Note at the end of “Trussing a Fowl for Boiling"), can be used for soup, or gravy, to be served with the Roast Fowl. For making the gravy, we put the giblets into a saucepan with enough water to cover them (about § a pint), we also add half an onion (peeled), 6 peppercorns, and salt to taste. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil, we move it to the side to simmer while the fowl is roasting. For serving, we strain the gravy into a basin and colour it, if necessary, by stirring in a quarter of a teaspoonful of “Liebig's Extract," or ten or twelve drops of caramel, we then pour it in a sauce tureen, or round the fowl.170 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. i. CLEAR SOUP. Average cost for making “ Clear Soup,” (to be served) with Vegetables or Savoury Custard (about 3 pints). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 quarts of stock 2 4^ f lb. of gravy beef o 6| 2 carrots o 1 1 turnip o o| 2 leeks o 2 1 cabbage lettuce o 1 1 tablespoonful of young peas j 1 lump of sugar > o 1 Salt ) 3 4f For “ Savoury Custard." 1 gill of stock o 2 3 eggs 0 3 Butter o oj o Si Time required, {the stock should be made the day before,) about one hour and a half Now we will show you how to make Clear Soup. 1. We take two quarts of stock (see Lesson on “ Stock”) * we must be careful to remove from it all fat. 2. We put the stock into a stewpan. 3. We take three quarters of a pound of gravy beef (from the shin of beef), put it on a board, and cut off all the fat and skin with a sharp knife. 4. We chop the beef up very fine. N.B.—The proportion of beef for clarifying stock is one pound to every five pounds of meat with which the stock is made. 5. We put the chopped gravy beef into the stewpan. 6. We take one carrot, one turnip, and one leek, and wash them well in cold water. 7. We take the vegetables out of the water and put them on a board.Lessons on Making Soup.—Clear Soup. 171 8. We take a sharp knife, and scrape the carrot quite clean, and slice it up. 9. We take the turnip, peel it, and cut it in small pieces. 10. We take the leek, and cut off part of the long green leaves, and the little straggling roots, and chop up finely the remainder. 11. We put all these vegetables into the stewpan, and stir them all well with an iron spoon, until they are well mixed with the beef and stock. 12. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the contents until it boils. 13. We must stand the stewpan by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. 14. We take a clean soup cloth, and fix it on the soup- stand. 15. We take a large basin, and place it below the cloth. 16. We take the stewpan off the fire, and pour the contents carefully into the cloth, and let it all pass into the basin. N.B.—The chopped gravy beef acts as a filter to the soup. 17. After the soup has all passed through, we remove the basin and put a clean one in its place. 18. We take a soup ladle and pour a little of the soup (at a time) over the meat in the cloth, and let it pass through very slowly. N.B.—We must be careful not to disturb the deposit of chopped beef, which settles at the bottom of the cloth. N.B—If savoury custard should be preferred in theso2tp, instead of shredded vegetables, see No. 31. 19. We take a small carrot, a leek, cabbage lettuce, and a tablespoonful of young peas, and wash them in cold water. 20. We put the vegetables on a board, scrape the carrot clean, and cut off all the outside leaves of the lettuce, and the long green leaves of the leek. 21. We must shred the carrot, leek and cabbage lettuce* very finely in equal lengths.172 National Training School for Cookery. 2.2. We put the shredded carrot and leek into a small saucepan of cold water with half a saltspoonful of salt. 23. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it just come to the boil. N.B.—This is to blanch the vegetables. 24. We take the saucepan off the fire and strain the water from the vegetables. 25. We take a stewpan, and put in the blanched vege- tables and cabbage lettuce and peas ; we add a lump of sugar and half a pint of the clear soup 26. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil fast, and re- duce the soup to a glaze over the vegetables. 27. We take the basin of strained soup and pour the „soup on the vegetables in the stewpan, and let it just boil. 28. We then remove the stewpan to the side of the fire? and let it boil gently for half an hour. 29. For serving we pour the soup into a hot soup tureen. For Savoury Custard. 30. We take the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one, and put them in a small basin. 31. We add one gill of the clear soup, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt. 32. We whisk up the eggs and the stock well together. 33. We take a small gallipot and butter it inside. 34. We pour the mixture into the gallipot. 35. We take a piece of whitey-brown paper and butter it. 36. We put this buttered paper over the top of the gallipot and tie it on with a piece of string. 37. We take a saucepan of hot water and put it on the fire. 38. When the water is quite boiling, we stand the little gallipot in it. N.B.—The water must not quite reach the paper with which the gallipot is covered. 39. We draw this saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. N.B.—It must not boil or the custard will be spoiled.Lessons on Making Soup.—Clear Soup. 173, 40. We take the gallipot out of the saucepan, take off the buttered paper, and turn the custard out on to a plate to cool. 41. We cut the custard into small pieces the shape of diamonds. 42. Just before serving, we pour the soup into the hot tureen, and add the savoury custard to the soup.174 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 2. TAPIOCA CREAM. Average cost of “ Tapioca Cream ” (about I pint). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 pint of white stock o q\ 1 oz. of tapioca o i Yolks of 2 eggs o 2 1 gill of cream or good milk Salt 1 4 * Time required (the stock should he made the day before), about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Tapioca Cream. 1. We take one pint of white stock (see “Lesson on Stock,”) and pour it in a stewpan. 2. We put the stewpan on the' fire to boil. 3. We take one ounce of prepared crushed tapioca. 4. When the white stock boils, we stir in gradually the tapioca. 5. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it all simmer until the tapioca is quite clear. 6. Now we must prepare the liaison. 7. We put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, and add to them one gill (or quarter of a pint) of cream or good milk. 8. We just stir it with a wooden spoon, and then pour the mixture through a strainer into another basin. 9. When the stock is quite boiling, we add it by degrees to the liaison, stirring well all the time. N.B.—We must be careful that the eggs do not curdle. o 6Lessons on Making Soup.—Tapioca Cream. 175 10. We add salt to the soup, according to taste, and pour the soup back into the stewpan. 11. We place the stewpan on the fire for three minutes^ stirring all the time. N. B.—It must not boil, or it would curdle. For serving, we pour it into a hot soup tureen.176 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 3. BONNE FEMME SOUP. Average cost of “Bonne Femme Soup ” (one pint and a half), INGREDIENTS. 2 small lettuces 2 leaves of sorrel 4 sprig’s of tarragon 4 sprigs of chervil 5 a cucumber h oz. of butter Salt 1 saltspoonful of sugar i| pint of white stock The yolks of 3 eggs. 1 gill of cream or milk The crust of a French roll 2 6\ Time required, about half an hour. (The stock should be made the day before.,') Now we will show you how to make Bonne Femme Soup. 1. We take two small lettuces, two leaves of sorrel, four sprigs of tarragon, four sprigs of chervil, and wash them? well in cold water. 2. We take these vegetables and herbs out of the water, put them upon a board, and shred them finely. 3. We take a cucumber and cut it in half. 4. We peel half the cucumber, and cut it up in thin slices, and then shred it with a sharp knife. 5. We put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 6. We place all the shredded vegetables and herbs in the stewpan to sweat for five minutes. 7. We sprinkle over them half a saltspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of castor sugar. 8. We must watch it occasionally, as the vegetables must not burn or in any way discolour. s. d. o 2 o 1 o 1 o 1 o 4 o o| o oj o io| 0 3 o 6 o 1L essons on Making Soup. —Bonne Femme Soup. 177 9. We take apint and a half of zvhite stock (see “ Lesson on Stock ”) and put it in another saucepan. 10. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 11. We must now make a “ liaison.” 12. We take the yolks of three eggs, put them in a basin, and beat them well. 13. We stir in one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream or milk. 14. We take a French roll and cut off all the crust. 15. We put the crust on a tin, and put it in the oven to dry for a minute or two. 16. When the stock is quite boiling, we pour it into the stewpan with the vegetables, and let all boil gently for ten minutes until the vegetables are quite tender. 17. We now stir in the liaison, straining it through a. hair-sieve into the stewpan. 18. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire to keep- warm until required for use. N.B.—We must not let it boil as, now the "liaison " is added, it would curdle. 19. We take the tin out of the oven and turn the dried crust on to a board. 20. We cut this crust up into small pieces, or in any fancy shapes, according to taste. 21. We place these pieces of crust in a hot soup tureen and pour the soup over them. It is then ready for serving.ij8 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 4. PUREE OF POTATOES. Average cost for making a “ PurPe of Potatoes ” (about I pint and a half) INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of potatoes .... 1 small onion 2 leaves of celery .... 1 oz. of butter 17 pint of white stock Salt x gill of cream Fried bread s. d. o 1 o o| O X O I O io| o 6 o 2 x 10 Time required (the stock should he made the day before), about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Pure'e of Potatoes. 1. We take one pound of potatoes, put them in a basin of cold water and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 2. We take a sharp knife and peel the potatoes, and cut them in thm slices. 3. We take a small onion, wash it well in cold water, and peel it. 4. We take two leaves of celery and wash them. 5. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter. 6. We now add the sliced potatoes, the onion, and the celery. 7. We put the stewpan on the fire and let the vegetables sweat for five minutes ; we must take care that they do not discolour. 8. We pour into the stewpan one pint of white stock and stir frequently with a wooden spoon to prevent it from burning.Lessons on Making Soup.—Purde of Potatoes. 179 9. We let it boil gently till the vegetables are quite cooked. 10. We put an extra half pint of white stock into a stew- pan, and put it on the fire to heat. 11. We now place a tammy-sieve over a basin and pass the contents of the stewpan through the sieve with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees the half pint of hot white stock, which will enable it to pass through more easily. 12. We take the stewpan and wash it out. 13. We pour the Puree back into the stewpan. 14. We add salt according to taste, and one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream and stir smoothly with a wooden spoon until it boils. 15. For serving we pour it into a hot soup tureen. N.B.—Fried bread cut in the shape of dice should be served with the purde (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8, from Note 13 to 17).i8o National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 5. SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. Average cost of “ Spring Vegetable Soup ” (two quarts). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 lbs. of the shin of beef i 6 2 lbs. of the knuckle of veal i o Salt ; } o x i young turnip o o£ i leek o i ^ of a head of celery o 2 x cauliflower o 4 1 gill of peas I 0 o a of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda .. j 3 5a Time required, about Jive hours. Now we will show you how to make two quarts of Spring Vegetable Soup. 1. We take two pounds of shin of beef \ and two pounds of knuckle of veal\ and put them on a board. 2. We must cut off all the meat from the bone with a sharp knife. 3. We cut off all the fat from the meat (the fat we put aside for other purposes). 4. We take a chopper and break the bones in halves. 5. We take out all the marrow inside the bones, and put it aside for other uses. N.B.—If the fat and marrow were to go into the soup they would make it greasy. 6. We take a stockpot or a large stewpan, and put the meat and bones into it. 7. We pour in five pints of cold water. 8. We put in a teaspoonfid of salt. This will assist the scum to rise.Lessons on Making Soup.—Spring Vegetable Soup, x 81 9. We put the stockpot on the fire, with the lid on, and let it come to the boil quickly. 10. We take a spoon and remove all the scum as it rises. 11. We now draw the stockpot rather to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for five hours. 12. We take two young carrots, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them in slices. 13. We take one young turnip, peel it, and cut it in slices. 14. We take half a head of celery and one leek, wash them well in cold water, and cut them in squares with a knife. 15. We take one cauliflower, wash it in cold water, and put it in a basin of cold water, with a dessertspoonfid of , salt, for two or three minutes. 16. We then take the caidiflower out of the water, and squeeze it dry in a cloth. 17. We take a knife and cut off all the green leaves and the stalk from the cauliflower, and pull the flower into sprigs. 18. We must watch and skim the soup occasionally, and we should add a little cold water to make the scum rise. 19. One hour before serving the soup we should add the vegetables. 20. We must first put in the sliced carrots, and the cut up celery and leek. (These vegetables take the longest to boil.) 21. In half an hour we.should add the sliced turnips, and fifteen minutes after that the cut up flower of the cauli- flower. 22. We take a saucepan full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 23. When the water is quite boiling, we put in one gill of shelled peas, a teaspoonfid of salt, and a quarter of a salt- spoonful of carbonate of soda, and let it boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the age of the peas. N.B.—The cover should be off the saucepan.182 National Training School for Cookery. 24. After that time we should feel the peas, and if they are quite soft we take them out of the saucepan and drain them in a colander. 25. For serving, we put the boiled peas into a hot soup tureen, and ladle the soup and the other vegetables from the stockpot out into the tureen.Lessons on Making Soup.—Giblet Soup. 183 SOUPS. Lesson No. 6. GIBLET SOUP. Average cost of “ Giblet Soup ” (about three pints). INGREDIENTS. 2 sets of giblets £ of a head of celery 1 carrot 1 turnip 2 small onions 2 cloves 1 blade of mace A bouquet garni of parsley, thyme, lemon- thyme, basil, marjoram and bay leaf .. 2 quarts of second white stock if oz. of clarified butter 1 oz. of flour f a pint of Madeira 30 drops of lemon juice A few grains of Cayenne pepper Salt d. 2 0 0 2 0 oh 0 oh 0 °k 0 T I 2* 0 if 0 I 0 0 1 0 o£ 4 9! [Stock made the day before.) Time required, about three hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Giblet Soup. 1. We take two sets of goose or four of ducks giblets, scald and skin the claws, ends of legs, &c., and wash them clean in cold water (see Note for “ Cleaning Giblets” at the end of “ Trussing a Fowl for Boiling”). 2. We should put them into boiling water to blanch them, for five minutes. 3. We then lay them in a basin of cold water, and wash and scrape them clean. 4. We take them out of the water and drain them. 5. We take a knife and cut the giblets in pieces to about one and a half inch in length. 6. We put the pieces of giblet into a stewpan. 7. We take a quarter of a head of celery and wash it welt in cold water.184 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We take one carrot, wash it in cold water, and scrape it clean with a knife. 9. We take one turnip and two small onions, wash them in cold water and peel them. 10. We add these vegetables to the giblets in the stewpan. 11. We also put in two cloves, one blade of mace, and a bouquet garni, consisting of parsley, one sprig of thyme, lemon-thyme, basil marjoram, and bay-leaf all tied tightly together. 12. We pour in two quarts of second white stock. 13. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil gently for two hours ; we must skim it occasionally. 14. After that time, we take out the best pieces of the giblets, and trim them neatly. 15. We put these pieces aside until required for use. 16. We leave the stewpan on the fire to boil for half an hour. 17. We put an ounce and a half of clarified butter; and one ounce of flour into a stewpan. 18. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let the flour and butter fry for a few minutes, stirring it well with a wooden spoon. 19. We now add the stock and stir it well until it boils. 20. We must now remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes (the cover of the saucepan should be only half on). 21. After that time, we take a spoon and carefully skim off all the butter that will have risen to the top of the soup. 22. We now strain the soup into a basin, add to it half a pint of Madeira, thirty drops of lemon juice, a few grains (just enough to cover thinly a threepenny piece) of Cayenne pepper, and salt according to taste. 23. For serving, we pour the soup into a hot soup tureen, and add to it the pieces of giblet that were put aside. N.B.—If the wine be disliked, it may be omitted.Lesson on Making Soup.—Mock Turtle Soup. 185 SOUPS. Lesson No. 7. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Average cost of “ Mock Turtle Soup ” (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. | a calf’s head 3 oz. of butter ) | a tablespoonful of salt ) % lb. of lean ham 1 shalot ) 1 clove of garlic j 6 mushrooms 1 carrot \ | head of celery 1 leek 1 onion £ a turnip Bouquet garni (i.e. sprig of thyme, mar- joram, parsley, basil, and a bay leaf).. x blade of mace 6 cloves 3 oz. of flour ^ 2 wine glasses of sherry The juice of \ a lemon 1 dozen forcemeat balls (see “Entrees,” Lesson No. 8) 7 5 Time required, about six hours. N.B.—If the soup is required to be made in one day, the stock should be made early in the morning, so as to give time for it to get cold to have the fat removed. N.B.—If liked, the calf's head could be served the previous day (see Calf's head rolled and boiled), and this soup be made with the calf’s head stock, and the remains of the calf’s head will be sufficient to cut up and put in the soup. In this case we commence this lesson from paragraph 7. Now we will show you how to make Mock Turtle Soup. 1. We take half a calf's head, and wash it well in water, to remove all blood and impurities. 2. We cut all the flesh from the bones, and tie the flesh up in a very clean cloth or napkin. 3. We put it in a large stewpan with the bones and four quarts of cold water, and half a tablespoonful of salt. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it come to the boil. s. d. 5 o o 3 o 3 o oj o 4 o 5\ o 8 o 1 o 4i186 National Training School for Cookery. 5. As soon as it boils, we should skim it carefully with a spoon, and move the stewpan to the side of the fire to stew gently for three hours. N.B.—We should watch it and skim it occasionally. 6. After that time we take out the calfs head,\ and pour the stock through a strainer into a basin. 7. We stand the basin of stock aside to get cold, when we should carefully remove every particle of fat from the top of the stock. 8. We must now make some forcemeat (see “Beef j)lives,” Entrees, Lesson No. 8, from Note 4 to Note 12), and make it up into little balls, about one dozen. 9. We take six mushrooms (cut off the end of the stalks), one onion, and half a turnip, wash them, peel them, and cut them up in slices. 10. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean, and cut it in slices. 11. We take half a head of celery, and one leek, wash them, cut off the long green leaves (to be thrown away); and cut them in slices. 12. We put a quarter of a pound of lea7i ham on a board, and cut it up in small pieces. 13. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 14. We add the ham and all the sliced vegetables to the butter in the stewpan. 15. We also add one shalot (peeled), one clove of garlic, one blade of mace, six cloves, and a bouquet garni (consisting of a sprig of thyme, marjoram, parsley, basil, and a bay leaf tied tightly together). 16. We let all these vegetables and herbs, &c., fry in the butter for ten minutes. We must stir them occasionally. 17. After that time we add three ounces of flour, and stir well. 18. We now add the stock and stir it until it boils, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for about ten minutes.Lessens on Making Soup.—Mock Turtle Soup. 187 19. We must then take a spoon and remove every particle of scum. 20. We now strain the soup into another stewpan. 21. We take the calfs head out of the cloth, and cut it up in small and neat pieces. 22. We add the pieces of calfs head to the soup, also two wine glasses of sherry, the dozen forcemeat balls, and squeeze in through a strainer the juice of half a lemon. 23. We let the soup just come to the boil, and then pour it in a hot soup tureen for serving.a 88 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 8. POT-AU-FEU OR SOUP. And use of Meat from which the Soup has been made. Average cost of “ Pot-au-feu,” consisting of about five quarts of soup, and a dish of meat with vegetables. INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. of beef, or 4 lbs. of the meat off the ox cheek Sago or tapioca for soup \ oz. salt, 2 turnips 2 carrots 2 leeks I parsnip 1 small head of celery 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley 1 cabbage 1 bay-leaf, thyme and marjoram, and 1 onion, stuck with 3 cloves s. d. 2 o O o| O I O I O 2 O I ° 31 o o| O I O I 2 IX Time required, about four hours. Now we will show you how to make Pot-au-feu. 1. We put six quarts of water in a large pot. 2. We take four pounds of the sticking of beef, or four pounds of the meat off the ox cheek, without any bone, tie it up firmly into a shape with a piece of string, and put it into the pot. 3. We put the pot on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling we put in half an ounce of salt, and then move the pot to the side of the fire to simmer. 5. We take two carrots, two leeks, two turnips, 07ieparsnipy one small head of celery, and wash them well in cold water. 6. We scrape the carrots and the parsnip, and cut them >in quarters with a knife.Lessons on Making Soup.—Pot-au-Feu or Soup. 189 7. We take the leeks and cut off the long green leaves, as only the white part is required. 8. We take the head of celery and cut off the green tops of the leaves. 9. We tie the leeks, the celery, and the parsnip and carrot together with a piece of string. 10. We take a cabbage, cut it in two, and wash it thoroughly in cold water, and tie it firmly together with string. 11. We should skim the Pot-au-feu occasionally with a spoon. 12. When the Pot-au-feu has boiled very gently for one hour, we add to it all the vegetables, except the cabbage. 13. We take one bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram, and tie them together with a piece of string. 14. We put these herbs into the pot. 15. We take one onion, peel it, and stick three cloves in it. 16. We put the onion into the pot. 17. When the vegetables have been two hours in the pot we put in the cabbage. 18. When the contents of the pot have simmered gently for four hours, we take out the meat and put it on a hot dish. 19. We garnish the meat with the carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and pour over it about half a pint of the liquor for gravy. 20. We take out the cabbage and serve it in a hot vege- table dish. 21. We strain the liquor through a colander or cloth into a basin, and put it by to cool. 22. We do not remove the fat until the liquor is required for use; it keeps the air from it. To make a soup of the liquor. 23. We put two quarts of the liquor in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil.190 National Training School for Cookery. 24. We take two ounces of crushed tapioca or small sago, and when the liquor boils we sprinkle in the tapioca or sago, and let it boil for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 25. We then pour it into a soup-tureen, and it is ready for use. N.B.—If liked, Beef d-la-mode, or rissoles (see "Cooked Meat," Lesson No. 6), can be made with the meat from the pot-au-feu. For “ Beef a-la-mode!' 1. We put two ounces of dripping into a saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 2. We then stir in one tablespoonful of flour. 3. We take one pound and a half of the meat and cut it in neat pieces. 4. We put these pieces of meat into the saucepan. 5. When the meat is fried we turn over the slices of meat and pour in half a pint of cold water. 6. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean and cut it in slices. 7. We put the carrot into the saucepan ; we also add a bunch of herbs, namely, a sprig of marjoram and thyme, and a bay-leaf, tied tightly together. 8. We let it just come to the boil and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for three hours. 9. We should watch it and stir it occasionally. 10. For serving, we turn the meat on to a hot dish, and place the carrot on the top of the meat.Lessons on Making Soup.—Ox-Tail Soup. 191 SOUPS. Lesson No. 9. OX-TAIL SOUP. Average cost of “ Ox-tail Soup ” (about three pints and a half) INGREDIENTS. s. 1 ox-tail 2 4 oz. of butter o 2 carrots o 1 turnip o 1 onion stuck with six cloves o | a head of celery o 3 oz. of flour Bouquet garni (i.e. sprig of thyme, mar- joram, parsley, and a bay leaf) 12 peppercorns 1 teaspoonful of salt 2 quarts of water d. 6 4 1 o| ok 2 Or with 3 quarts of second stock 3 32 1 9 5 o$ Time required (stock already made), about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Ox-tail Soup. 1. We take the ox-tail’ put it on a board, and cut it through the joints into pieces with a knife. 2. We put the pieces of ox-tail into a stewpan, cover them with cold water, and put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 3. We let it boil for five minutes, take the stewpan off the fire, strain off the water, and wipe the pieces of ox-tail dry with a clean cloth. 4. We put the ox-tail back in the stewpan, with two .1ounces of butter. 5. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, cut it in half, and put it in the stewpan.192 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We take an onion, peel it, and stick six cloves in it. 7. We take half a head of celery, wash it, and cut off the green tops of the leaves. 8. We put the onion and celery into the stewpan ; we also add twelve peppercorns, and a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay-leaf \ all tied tightly together. 9. We should place the lid on the stewpan, and put it over the fire for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. 10. We must now add two quarts of cold water, and a teaspoonful of salt. N.B.—If there is any stock that can be used, it would of course im- prove the sovp, then three quarts of it should be used instead of the water. 11. When it boils we must skim it well, and then draw the stewpan to the side of the fire to simmer for two hours. 12. Half-an-hour before the stock is done, we put two ounces of butter into another stewpan. 13. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it up into rounds the size of a shilling. 14. We take a small turnip, wash it, peel it, and cut it up like the carrot. 15. We add these vegetables to the butter, put the stewpan on the fire, and let them cook for ten minutes; we must stir them occasionally, and not allow them to discolour. 16. When the stock is ready, we should take the pieces of ox-tail out, and pour the stock through a strainer into a basin. 17. We put three ounces of flour into the stewpan, with the vegetables and butter, and stir well. 18. We now add the stock to the stewpan, put it over the fire, and stir well until it boils and thickens, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer until the vegetables are tender: it will take about a quarter of an hour.Lessons on Making Soup. — Ox- Tail Soup. 193 19. We must watch it, and carefully skim it, and remove any fat that rises to the top. 20. We now add the pieces of ox-tail to the soupy and let it just warm. 21. For serving, we pour the soup into a hot soup- tureen. N194 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. io. SEMOLINA SOUP. Average cost of “ Semolina Soup ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 quart of second stock 2 tablespoonsful of semolina i J | pint of milk ) ^ Salt and pepper / 9% (Stock already made.) Time required, about half-an-hour. Now we will show you how to make Semolina Soup. 1. We put one quart of second stock (or stock from pot-au- feu) into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. When the stock is boiling, we stir in very gradually, two tablespoonsful of Semolina. 3. We must stir it well while it boils, for ten minutes. 4. We now add half a pint of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. N.3.—The milk might be omitted if not required. 5. We let the soup warm through, stirring well all the time, and then pour it into a hot soup tureen, or basin, for serving. N.B.—Toasted, or fried bread, cut in the shape of dice, should be served with this soup.Lessons on Making Soup.—Milk Soup. 195 SOUPS. Lesson No. ii. MILK SOUP. Average cost of “Milk Soup ” (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. potatoes 2 leeks or onions 2 oz. butter £ oz. salt Pepper I pint of milk 3 tablespoonsful of tapioca d. 2 1 2 Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Milk Soup. 1. We put two quarts of water into a large saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take two pounds of potatoes, wash, and scrub them clean in cold water, peel them, and cut them in quarters. 3. We take two leeks, cut off the green tops of the leaves, wash them well in cold water, and cut them up. N.B.—Onions can be used instead of leeks, only they would give a stronger flavour. 4. We put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, we add the vegetables, put the stewpan on the fire, and let the vege- tables sweat in the butter for five minutes. 5. When the water is quite boiling we pour in the vege- tables and butter, we also add a quarter of an ounce of salty and pepper to taste. 6. We let it boil till done to a mash. 7. We then strain off the soup through the colander, or wire sieve. 8. We rub the vegetables through the colander, with a wooden spoon. N 2196 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We return the pulp and the soup to the saucepan, add to it one pint of milk, and put it on the fire to boil. 10. When it boils we sprinkle in by degrees, three table spoonsful of crushed tapioca, stirring it well the whole time. 11. We let it boil gently fifteen minutes. 12. For serving, we pour the soup in a hot tureen. N.B.—To improve this soup more milk and less water should be used, and half a gill of cream stirred in at the last.Lessons on Making Soup.—Cabbage Soup. 197 SOUPS. Lesson No. 12. CABBAGE SOUP. Average cost of making “ Cabbage Soup” (about one quart and a half). INGREDIENTS. 1 cabbage 2 oz. of butter f of a pint of milk Pepper and salt A slice of bread 6| Time required, about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Cabbage Soup. 1. We put three pints of water into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take a good sized cabbage, wash it well in cold water, and trim off the outside dead leaves. 3. We cut the cabbage up, but not into very small pieces. 4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the cabbage, and let it boil for five minutes. N.B.—This is to blanch it. 5. We now pour off the water from the cabbage. 6. We add to the cabbage, two quarts of water, two ounces of butter, and pepper and salt for seasoning, and let it boil for one hour. 7. After that time, we pour in three quarters of a pint of milk, and let it boil up. 8. We take a slice of bread, stick it on a toasting fork, and toast it slightly on both sides in front of the fire. 9. We cut the toasted bread up in pieces, the size of dice, and put them into a hot soup tureen or basin. 10. We pour the cabbage soup on to the bread in the soup tureen, and it is ready for serving.198 National Training School for Cookery. Cooked or uncooked bones o 2 SOUPS. Lesson No. 13. PEA SOUP. Average cost of “ Pea Soup ” (a INGREDIENTS. 1 quart of split peas 2 onions 1 turnip 1 carrot 1 head of celery Teaspoonful of salt \ a teaspoonful of pepper Time required (after the peas have been soaked all night), about two hours and a Half. Now we will show you how to make Pea Soup. 1. We put a quart of split peas into a basin with cold water to cover them, and let them soak for twelve hours. N.B.—This should be done over night. 2. We put two quarts of cold water and the split peas into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. N.B.—If there is any liquor from boiled meat it would of course be better than water for the soup. 3. We take two onions and one turnip, wash them in cold water, peel them, and cut them in halves. 4. We take one carroty wash it, and scrape it clean with a knife. 5. We take one head of celery, cut off the ends of the root, and wash it well in cold water. 6. When the water in the saucepan is boiling we put in all the vegetables. 7. We take tivopennyworth of cooked, or uncooked bones, wash them, add them to the saucepan, and season it with one teaspoonful of salty and half a teaspoonful of ground pepper. N.B.—If some liquor (in which meat or pork has been boiled) is used the addition of bones will not then be necessary. 2 quarts). J. d. O 5 O I o o£ o o£ o 4 o o^Lessons on Making Sottp.—Pea Soup. 199 8. We let it all boil slowly for two hours, and we must watch it and skim it occasionally. 9. After that time we take the bones out of the saucepan. 10. We place a colander or wire sieve over a basin. 11. We pour the contents of the saucepan into the colander, and rub them through into the basin with a wooden spoon. 12. Thzpea soup is then ready for serving. 13. Powdered {dried') mint, and toasted bread’ cut to the shape of dice, should be handed with the soup, either put in, or served separately on plates.200 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 14. MACCARONI SOUP. Average cost of “ Maccaroni Soup ” made from Bones (about 3 pints). INGREDIENTS. Bones (if bought) ' I tablespoonful of salt and peppercorns .... ) 1 good-sized turnip and 4 leeks j 2 carrots 2 onions, 2 cloves, and a blade of mace A bunch of herbs, i.e. marjoram, thyme, lemon \ thyme, and parsley J 5 lb. of maccaroni d. 2 4z 1 io| Time required, about two and a half hours. Now we will show you how to make Soup from Bones. 1. We take the bones and cut off all the meat that can be used. N.B.—Cooked or uncooked bones can be used. 2. We break up the bones in pieces and put them into a saucepan, with cold water enough to cover them, and one quart more. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 4. When it just boils, we put in a tablespoonfid of salt, to help the scum to rise. 5. We take one good-sized turnip, peel it, and cut it in quarters. N.B.—When turnips are used only for flavouring, they can be peeled thinner than if for eating. 6. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them, and cut them in quarters ; we take four leeks, wash them, and shred them up finely. N.B.—As these vegetables are prepared, they should be thrown into cold water to keep them fresh.Lessons on Making Soup.—Macaroni Soup. 20 r 7. We take two onions, peel them, and stick two cloves into one onion. N.B.—The outer skins of the onions can be put into a saucepan by the side of the fire to brown; when browned, they are useful for colouring gravies and soups. 8. We should skim the soup well and then put in the vegetables ; we also add a blade of mace and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. 9. We must move the saucepan to the side of the tire, and let it simmer gently for two hours and a half. 10. We should raise the lid slightly to let out the steam. N.B.—It is better to boil maccaroni separately, as the first water is not clean. The soup can be thickened with maccaroni, vermicelli, barley, or rice. 11. If the soup is thickened with maccaroni, we should put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil. 12. When the water is quite boiling we put in a quarter of a pound of maccaroni, and sprinkle about half a saltspoon- ful of salt over it. 13. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it boil until the maccaroni is quite tender; it will take about half an hour. 14. We should feel the maccaroni with our fingers, to see that it is quite soft, and tender. 15. When it is sufficiently boiled, we turn it into a colander, to strain the water off, then pour some cold water on it, and wash the maccaroni again. 16. We put the maccaroni on a board, and cut it into small pieces about a quarter of an inch in length, it is then ready to be put into the soup. N.B.—If barley is used instead of maccaroni, it will take a much longer time to boil, but if vermicelli is used, it takes a very short time to boil. 17. When the soup is ready for use, we should put the maccaroni into a soup tureen, and strain the hot soup over it. It is then ready for serving.202 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 15. LENTIL PUREE. Average cost of “ Lentil Soup ” (about one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 pint of red lentils 3 1 onion o\ 3 sticks of celery 1 1 oz. of butter j Pepper and salt > ij 2 quarts of water ) ~5l Time required, about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make lentil soup, 1. We take one pint of red lentils, and wash them well in cold water. 2. We take a saucepan, and butter it well inside with one ounce of butter. 3. We take the lentils out of the water, and put them in the saucepan. 4. We take an onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 5. We take three sticks of celery, cut off the green tops, wash them, and add them and the sliced onion to the sauce- pan. 6. We put the saucepan over the fire with the lid on, for five minutes. 7. We now add two quarts of cold water; move the saucepan rather to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for one hour, 8. We place a hair sieve over a basin, and pass the contents of the saucepan through with a wooden spoon. N.B.—A wire sieve, or even a colander, might be used, but the hair sieve is the best.Lessons on Making Soup.—Lentil Puree. 203. with the parde. 9. We pour the pure'e back into the saucepan ; add pep- per and salt to taste; put the saucepan on the fire to warm the puree. 10. For serving, we pour the puree into a hot soup tureen or basin. N.B.—Toasted, or fried bread, cut in the shape of dice, should be served)204 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. t 6. HARICOT PUREE. Average cost of “ Haricot Soup ” (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. i pint of Haricot beans i onion 1 teaspoonful of salt Pepper Pint of milk 2 quarts of water. Time required, after the beans are soaked, about four hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Haricot Puree. 1. We soak one quart of Haricot beans in cold water all night. 2. We take the soaked beans out of the water, and put them in a saucepan, with two quarts of cold water, and a teaspoonful of salt. 3. We take an onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 4. We add the sliced onion to the saucepan. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils, we move it rather to the side of the fire, and let it boil gently for four hours. 6. After that time, we place a wire sieve, or colander, •over a basin, and pass the contents of the saucepan through the sieve with a wooden spoon. 7. We now stir in three quarters of a pint of milk, pour the puree back into the saucepan, add pepper and salt to taste, and put the saucepan on the fire to warm the puree : we must stir it well while it is warming. 8. For serving, we pour the puree into a hot soup tureen •or basin. N.B.—Toasted or fried bread, cut in the shape of dice, should be served with the purde.Lessons on Making Soup.— Vegetable Pur be. 205. SOUPS. Lesson No. 17. VEGETABLE PUREE. Average cost of “ Vegetable Puree ” (about five pints). INGREDIENTS. 3 carrots 2 turnips 1 head of celery 2 onions 2 leeks 1 lettuce 1 small cabbage Pepper and salt £ lb. of butter 3 quarts of water. 1 4 Time required, about one hoitr and a half. s. d. o 1 \ o 1 o 4 O I O 2 O I O l| O 4 Now we will show you how to make a Vegetable Puree. 1. We take carrots, wash them well, scrape them and cut them in slices. 2. We take two turnips, and two onions, wash them well, peel them, and cut them in slices. 3. We take of celery and two leeks, wash them well, and cut them up in quarters. 4. We take lettuce and a small cabbage, wash them well, and cut them in quarters. 5. We put a quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan and add all the vegetables. 6. We put the saucepan over the fire, to cook for ten minutes. We must stir the vegetables occasionally. 7. We then add three quarts of cold water, and when it boils, we must skim it well, and then move the saucepan rather to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for one hour.2o6 National Training School for Cookery. with the purie. 8. We place a hair sieve over a basin, and pass the contents of the saucepan through the sieve with a wooden spoon. N.B.—A wire sieve, or colander might be used, but a hair sieve is the best. 9. We now pour the purfe back into the saucepan, and put it on the fire to warm. 10. For serving, we pour the puree into a hot soup tureen, or basin. N.B.—Toasted or fried bread, cut in the shape of dice, should be served20 7 Lessons on Making Soup.—Stock. STOCK. Average cost of brown or white “ Stock ” for soup (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal and 2 lbs. of beef 4 young carrots or 2 old ones 1 turnip 1 onion 1 leek Half a head of celery Salt 3 6 s. d. 3 o o 2 o o\ o Oj O I O 2 Time required, about five hoters. Now we will show you how to make Stock for soup. It should be made the day before it is required for use. 1. We take four pounds of shin of beef and put it on a board. 2. We must cut off all the meat from the bone, with a sharp knife. 3. We take a chopper and break the bone in half. 4. We take out all the marrow inside the bone, and put it aside for other uses. N.B.—If the marrow were to go into the stock, it would make it greasy. 5. We take a stockpot or a large stewpan, and put the meat and bone into it. 6. We pour in five pints of cold water. N.B.—'One pint of water is allowed for each pound of meat, and one pint over. 7. We put in half a teaspoonful of salt. This will assist the scum to rise. 8. We put the stockpot on the fire with the lid on, and let it come to the boil quickly.2o8 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We take four young carrots, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them in pieces. 10. We take one turnip and one onion, peel them and cut them in quarters. 11. We take a leek and half a head of celery and wash them well in cold water. 12. We take a spoon and remove the scum and fat from the stock as it rises. 13. Now we put in all the vegetables, and let it simmer gently for five hours. 14. We must watch and skim it occasionally, and we should add a little cold water to make the scum rise. 15. We take a clean cloth and put it over a good-sized basin. 16. We put a hair-sieve on the top of the cloth over the basin. 17. When the stock has been simmering for jive hours we take the stockpot off the fire. 18. We pour the contents into the sieve, which contains the meat, bone, and vegetables; and the cloth very effectually strains the stock. N.B.—The meat and bone can be used again for second stock, with the addition of fresh vegetables and water. 19. We take the basin (into which the stock has been strained), and put it in a cool place till the next day, when it will be a stiff jelly. 20. When this stock jelly is required for use, we must take off the fat from the top with a spoon. 21. We take a clean cloth and dip it in hot water, and wipe over the top of the jelly so as to remove every particle of fat. 22. Now we must take a clean dry cloth and wipe the top of the jelly dry. It is now ready for use. N.B.—For some soups, vegetable soups, or purges, white stock is required. White stock is made in the same way, only with veal instead of beef, and it can also be made of veal and beef mixed, or rabbit and beef, but veal alone is considered best.Lessons on Making Soup.— Vegetable Stock. 209 VEGETABLE STOCK. Average cost of “ Vegetable Stock ” (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. 1 cabbage 3 large or 6 small onions 2 carrots 1 turnip 2 oz. of butter 3 cloves 30 peppercorns A bunch of herbs (thyme, marjoram, and a bay-leaf) Salt d. 1 *§ 1 o| 2 6i Time required, about two hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Vegetable Stock. 1. We take one cabbage, wash it well in cold water, and cut it in quarters. 2. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, and cut them in quarters. 3. We take one titrnip, peel it, and cut it in quarters. 4. We take three lai'ge or six small onions, and wash them clean (the skins are to be left on). 5. We put all these vegetables into a saucepan, with two ounces of butter. 6. We also add a bunch of herbs (namely, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and a bay-leaf) tied tightly together, cloves and thirty peppercorns. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let the vegetables and herbs sweat in the butter for ten minutes. We must stir them and not let them burn, 8. We now pour in three quarts of cold water, and add salt according to taste. 9. When the water boils we move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours. We must watch it and skim it occasionally. . o2io National Training School for Cookery. 10. After that time we strain the stock into a basin, and it is ready for use. It is now reduced to two quarts and half a pint N.B.—This stock can be used for thick vegetable soups.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Boiled Turbot. 211 FISH. Lesson No. 1. BOILED TURBOT, AND LOBSTER SAUCE. Turbot varies in price considerably. Average cost of ingredients for “ Lobster Sauce.” Lobster 2 oz. of butter 1 tablespoonful of cream 1 oz. of flour i a tablespoonful of lemon juice s. d. 2 o o 2 o o Oj 2 4 Time requ ired, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to boil Turbot and make Lobster Sauce. 1. We take the turbot. 2. We put it in a basin of cold water and wash it well. 3. We get a fishkettle and fill it with cold water, add to it as much salt as will make the water taste salt, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. We take the turbot out of the basin. 5. We put it on the drainer of the fishkettle, and put it in the kettle of boiling water, so that it is well covered with water. 6. We let it boil for twenty minutes or half an hour. 7. We must watch it and skim the water if necessary. N.B.—While the turbot is boiling, we should make the lobster sauce (see below). 8. When the fish is sufficiently boiled, the flesh will divide from the bone. 9. Now we take the drainer carefully out of the fishkettle, stand it. across the kettle a minute to drain, and slip the fish carefully on to a hot dish for serving. o 22 12 National Training School for Cookery. For Lobster Sauce. 1. We take a small lobster—it should be a hen lobster if possible. 2. We put the lobster on a board. 3. We take a chopper and break the shell of the lobster by hitting it with the blade of the chopper, not with the edge ; 1st because it would cut the lobster in pieces, and 2nd because it would spoil the edge of the chopper. 4. We break all the shell off the claws and back with our fingers and take out all the flesh. 5. We cut this flesh up with a sharp knife to the size of small dice. 6. If the lobster is a hen lobster we shall find a bit of coral in the neck, and a strip of it down the back. 7. We take all this coral out of the lobster and wash it carefully in cold water in a small basin. 8. We take the coral out of the basin and put it in a mortar with one ounce of butter. 9. We pound the coral and the butter well with the pestle. 10. We take it out of the mortar, and scrape the mortar out quite clean with a palette knife, for none must be lost. 11. If we have not a palette knife we can manage as well with a piece of uncooked potato cut into the shape of a knife blade with a thick back, with this we can scrape all out of the mortar. 12. We take a hair sieve and put it over a plate. 13. We rub the pounded mixture through the sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. 14. We must turn up the sieve when all the mixture has passed through, and we shall find some sticking on the underneath part. 15. We scrape all this carefully off with the spoon. 16. We make it all into a little pat 17. We take a stewpan and put in it one oimce of butter and one ounce of flour.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Lobster Sauce. 213 18. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 19. We add half a pint of cold water. 20. We put the stewpan on the fire. 21. We stir the mixture smooth, with a wooden spoon until it boils, and thickens. We add a large tablespoonful of cream, and stir well till it boils again. 22. We then take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 23. We add to the mixture in the stewpan the pat of coral butter, by degrees, to colour it. N.B. — If there be no coral, the sauce might be coloured with half a teaspoon- ful of essence of anchovy. 24. We stir it quite smoothly with a wooden spoon, it must not be lumpy. 25. We now add pepper and salt, and a fezv grains of Cayennepeppery according to taste. 26. We take the chopped lobstery and mix it into the sauce y and add half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 27. We pour the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve it with the turbot.214 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 2. FISH PUDDING. Average cost of “ Fish Pudding and Egg Sauce. INGREDIENTS. "Haddock." s. d. _ T t _ I o “ Sauce." d. 2 oz. of butter -. 2 2 lbs. of potatoes o 2 5> nz r>f hnttpr O 2 1 oz. of flour oj 7 gill of cream . 3 T par<y ...................... O X 2 eggs and salt 2 I 5 Time required, alout one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Fish Pudding with Haddock. N. B.—Any cold lolled fish can be used for the fish pzidding, instead of haddock. 1. We take a fishkettle of warm water, and we put in it a little salt, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take a haddock} and put it into a basin of cold water and wash it well. 3. We take the haddock out of the basin and put it into the fishkettle of boiling water, laying it carefully on the drainer so that it is well covered with water. 4. We let it simmer for fifteen minutes. 5. We take six potatoes, put them into a basin of cold water, and scrub them well with a scrubbing-brush. N.B.—Any cold potatoes can of course be used instead of boiling fresh ones. 6. We take the potatoes out of the basin, .and dry them with a cloth. 7. We take a sharp knife and peel the potatoes. 8. We take a saucepan of cold water, and lay the potatoes in it. 9. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. It must not boil less than twenty minutes, or more than three-quarters of an houry according to the size of the potatoes.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Fish Pudding. 215 10. When we think the potatoes are sufficiently done, we take a steel fork and try the potatoes, to see if they are tender ail through. 11. When they are quite boiled, we drain off all the water from the saucepan, and sprinkle the potatoes with a little salt. 12. We put on the lid of the saucepan, and stand it by the side of the fire to steam the potatoes until they have become quite mealy and dry. 13. We should shake the saucepan every now and then, to prevent the potatoes from sticking to the bottom. 14. When the haddock is sufficiently boiled, we take it carefully out of the fishkettle. 15. We take a sharp knife, and cut off the head and tail of the fish. 16. We skin the fish from the head to the tail. 17. We cut up the fish and take out all the bones. 18. We cut the fish up into small pieces the size of dice, and put them in a large basin. 19. When the potatoes are steamed, we take them out of the saucepan with a spoon. 20. We have a wire sieve ready standing over a large plate. 21. We rub the potatoes quickly through the sieve with a wooden spoon. N.B.—The potatoes when sifted should be of the same weight as the fish. 22. We add the sifted potatoes to the haddock, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 23. We add salt and pepper, and a few grains of Cayenne pepper to taste. 24. We put in one ounce and a half of butter. 25. We take one egg, and beat it slightly in a basin. 26. We pour the egg into the above mixture, and mix all together to a thick paste. 27. We take a large-sized flat tin, and butter it well with our fingers.216 National Training School for Cookery. 28. We put the mixture on to this tin, and shape it as well as we can like a haddock. N.B.—If preferred, the mixture can be formed into cutlets, or croquette shapes, or as fish cakes, and egged and bread crumbed and fried in dripping, as for lobster cutlets (see “Fish,” Lesson No. 7, Note 34 to Note 40). 29. We cut up half an ounce of butter into small pieces, and put them all about on the shape. 30. We put the tin into a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. It should become a pale-brown colour. Now we will make the Sauce. 1. We take a stewpan, and put in it two ounces of butter and one ounce of flour. 2. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 3. We add half a teaspoonful of salt. 4. We pour in half a pint of cold water. 5. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir all smooth with a wooden spoon until it boils. 6. We now add two tablespoonsful of cream, and let it boil, stirring all the time. 7. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire. The mixture must not boil again, but only keep warm.- 8. We take a saucepan of warm water and put it on the fire to boil. 9. When the water boils we put two eggs in to boil for ten minutes. 10. We put the eggs into cold water for a minute, and then shell them. 11. We cut the eggs with a sharp knife into little square pieces. 12. We take the stewpan of sauce off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 13. We add the cut-up eggs to the saucey and stir them lightly in, not to break the pieces of egg. 14. For serving we move the fish pudding carefully on to a hot dish, and pour the egg-sauce round.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—•Whitebait. 217 FISH. Lesson No. 3. WHITEBAIT. Whitebait varies in price ; it is in season from July to September. Now we will show you how to fry Whitebait. 1. We take a saucepan, and put in it one pound and a half of lard, or clarified dripping. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. When the fat smokes it will then be hot enough. N.B.—The fat requires to be much hotter for frying whitebait, than for any- thing else. N.B.—If possible the fat should be tested by a frimometer, and the heat should rise to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 3. We take the whitebait, wash them in iced ivater, pick them over carefully, and dry them well in a cloth. 4. We take a sheet of paper, and put on it a good tea- cupful offlour. 5. We take the whitebait, and sprinkle them in the flour. They must not touch each other, and we must finger them as little as possible. 6. We take up the paper, and shake the whitebait well in the flour., so that they are well covered with flour. 7. We turn the whitebait from the paper of flour, into a whitebait basket, and sift all the loose flour back on to the paper. 8. We then turn the whitebait a few at a time, into the frying basket and put it into the boiling fat for one minute. The whitebait should be quite crisp. 9. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate, stand the plate near the fire, and turn the fried whitebait on to the paper to drain off the grease. (We serve them on a napkin on a hot dish. Lemon cut, and thin slices of hrozvn bread and butter should be served with the white- bait.)218 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 4. SOLE AU GRATIN. Average cost of “ Sole an Gratin f INGREDIENTS. 1 sole Parsley and f of shalot .... 4 mushrooms A teaspoonful of lemon juice Salt and pepper 2 tablespoonsful of glaze.... § oz. butter. Crumbs s. d. I o o o| o 2 o o| O o o ok I 7 Time reqiiired, about one hour. Now we will show you how to cook Sole au Gratin. 1. We take a small sole and cut off with a sharp knife the outside fins. 2. We cut through the skin only, across the head and the tail, on both sides of the fish. 3. We take the skin off from the tail to the head. 4. We wash the sole in cold water and dry it with a cloth, and nick it with a knife on both sides. 5. We can cook the sole in fillets, if required, or whole. (N.B. —If in fillets, we fillet the sole the same as for the fried fillets in Lesson No. 6.) We are going to cook the sole whole. 6. We take a small bunch of parsley and dry it well in a cloth. 7. We chop the parsley up finely on a board. 8. We chop a quarter of a shalot up finely and mix it with the parsley. 9. The chopped parsley and shalot should fill a tablespoon. 10. We take four small mushrooms, cut off the roots, and then wash the mushrooms well in a basin of cold water.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Sole cm Gratin. 219 11. We take them out of the water, dry them in a cloth and peel them. 12. We chop them up finely. 13. We take a dish, and spread a little butter on it with our fingers. 14. We sprinkle half of the chopped parsley, shalot, mushroom over the bottom of the buttered dish. 15. We pour half a teaspoonfid of lemon juice over the chopped parsley, shalot, and mushroom in the dish, also sprinkle half a salt spoonful of salt and <2 quarter of a salt- spoonful of pepper. 16. We lay the sole carefully in the dish, and sprinkle over it the remainder of the chopped parsley, shalot, and mushroom. 17. We sprinkle over the sole pepper and salt (enough to cover a threepenny piece), and squeeze over it half a tea- spoonfid of lemon juice. 18. We take half an ounce of bidter and cut it in small pieces and put them over the sole. 19. We pour over it two tablespoonsful of glaze. N.B.—Glaze can be bought, or it can be made by reducing some strong stock over the fire (see “Stews,” Lesson No 4, Note 12). 20. We take a wire sieve and put it over a piece of paper. 21. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. 22. We take these bread crumbs and put them on a flat tin. We put this tin into the oven to dry, and slightly brown, the bread crumbs. 23. When the crumbs are done we sift them over the sole. 24. We now put the dish into a brisk oven for ten minutes. We must take a fork and feel in the thick part of the sole if the fish is tender. 25. We carefully move the sole with a slice on to a clean clish, and pour the sauce round. It is then ready for serving.220 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 5. FILLETS OF SOLES A LA MAiTRE D’HOTEL. Average cost of “ Fillets of Soles a la Maitre d' Hotel'.' INGREDIENTS. s. d. Sole ,.... 1 o Lemon juice o oj 1 oz. of butter o i f oz. of flour o o| | gill of cream o 3 1 4t Time required about half an liotir, Nov/ we will show you how to cook Fillets of Soles a la Maitre d‘Hotel. N.B.—Fillets of plaice or whiting could be cooked in this way. 1. We take one sole and fillet it in the same way as for fried fillets (see “Fish,” Lesson No. 6). 2. We take the bones and fins of the sole, put them into a stewpan with half a pint of water, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We take a flat tin pan and butter it with our fingers. 4. We fold the fillets loosely over and lay them in the buttered tin. 5. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the fillets and squeeze six drops of lemon juice, and cover them with a piece of buttered paper. 6. We put the tin with the fillets into a sharp oven for six minutes. Now we will make the Sauce. N.B.—If there be no cream, the sauce can be made with milk ; the bones of the fish should therefore be boiled in half a pint of milk instead of water.Cooking Fish.—Soles a la Maitre dlHotel. 221 o 1. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it finely with a knife on a board. 2. We take a stewpan and put in it one oimce of butter and three-quarters of an ounce of flour. 3. We mix them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. 4. We take the saucepan of fish stock and pour it by degrees through a strainer into the stewpan of butter and flour, stirring well. 5. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture smoothly with a wooden spoon ; we now add two table- spoonsfid of cream and stir it well until it- ^oils. 6. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 7. We add the chopped parsley to the mixture. 8. We add half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, and pepper to taste, and stir the sauce well. 9. Now we take the fillets out of the oven and arrange them on a hot dish; we add the liquor from the fillets of soles out of the tin, to the sauce. 10. We pour the sauce over the fillets of soles. It is now ready for serving.222 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 6. FRIED FILLETS OF SOLE. Average cost of “Fried Fillets of Sole, and Anchovy Sauce." INGREDIENTS. For “Fried Sole.” | For “ Anchovy Sauce. s. d. lb. of lard or clarified drip- ping for frying Sole i o i egg o i Crumbs o o| i oz. fresh butter |-oz. flour Anchovy sauce .. i 12 d. 2 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to Fry Fillets of Sole, Plaice, or Whiting. 1. We take one sole, wash it well, and lay it on a board. 2. We take a sharp knife and cut off all the outside fins, the head, and the tail. 3. We take the skin off the sole, from the tail to the head. 4. We cut down the centre of the fish. 5. We slide the knife along carefully between the flesh and the bones, holding the flesh in one hand and drawing it gently away as the knife cuts it away from the bone. 6. We do both sides of the fish alike, and it will make four fillets. 7. We put each fillet separately on a plate, and rub it over with flour. 8. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of paper. 9. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. 10. We take one egg and beat it on a plate with a knife. 11. We lay the fillets in the egg, and egg them well all over with a brush.Lessons on Co shiny Fish.—Fried Fillets of Sole. 223 12. We then put them in the bread crumbs, and cover them well. We should be careful to finger them as little as possible. 13. We take a saucepan, and put in it one pound and a half of lard or clarified dripping. Now we must make the Butter Sauce with Anchovy (see below). 14. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. Test the heat of it by throwing in a piece of bread, and if it makes a fizzing noise it is ready. N. B. The heat is tested best by a frimometer ; the heat should rise to 345°. 15. We take a frying basket, and place in it the fillets. 16. The fillets should be slightly bent, or folded over, to prevent their being quite flat when fried. 17. When the fat is quite hot, we put in the frying basket, with the fillets, for three minutes. 18. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 19. When the fillets are done, they should be a pale brown : we turn them out on to the paper on the plate, to drain off the grease. 20. We serve them in a hot dish on a napkin, garnished with a little fried parsley [Refer to “ Fish,” Lesson No. 7, Note 41]. For Anchovy Sauce. 1. We take a stewpan, and put in it one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. 2. We mix them well with a wooden spoon. 3. We add one gill and a half of cold water. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon until the mixture is quite smooth and boils. 5. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. N. B.—About a qziarter of an ounce of butter stirred into the sauce at the last, very much improves it. 6. We now add one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, and stir it well into the butter sauce. 7. For serving, we pour it into a sauceboat.224 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 7. LOBSTER CUTLETS. Average cost of “Lobster Cutlets' {about seven). INGREDIENTS. 1 lobster s. d. It oz. of butter 1 tablespoonful of cream It if Seasoning and flavouring I 1 oz. of flour 0i 1 egg Bread o1 Parsley O 7 2 Time required about three hours. Now we will show you how to make Lobster Cutlets. 1. We take a small lobster—it should be a hen lobster if possible. 2. We put the lobster on a board. 3. We take a chopper and break the shell of the lobster by hitting it with the blade of the chopper, not with the edge ; 1st, because it would cut the lobster in pieces, and 2nd, because it would spoil the edge of the chopper. 4. We break all the shell off the claws and back with our fingers and take out all the flesh. 5. We cut this flesh up in pieces, with a sharp knife to the size of dice. 6. If the lobster is a hen lobster we shall find a bit of coral in the neck, and a strip of it down the back. 7. We take all this co7'al out of the lobster and wash it carefully in cold water in a small basin. 8. We take the coral out of the basin and put it in a mortar with one ounce of butter. 9. We pound the coral and the butter well with the pestle.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Lobster Cutlets. 225 10. We take it out of the mortar and scrape the mortar out quite clean with a palette knife or a slice of raw potato, for none must be lost. 11. We take a hair sieve and put it over a plate. 12. We pass the pounded mixture through the sieve with a wooden spoon. 13. We must turn up the sieve when all the mixture has passed through, and we shall find some sticking inside. 14. We scrape all this carefully off with the spoon. 15. We make it all into a little pat. 16. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 17. We add one gill of cold water (one gill is a quarter pint). We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture with a wooden spoon till it boils and thickens. 18. We add one tablespoonfid of cream and stir smoothly until it boils. 19. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 20. We now stir in by degrees the pat of coral butter. We must be sure the sauce is quite smooth and not lumpy. 21. We add salt and pepper and a few grains of cayenne pepper, according to taste, and about six drops of lemon juice, and mix well. 22. We add the chopped lobster, and mix it with the sauce. 23. We take a clean plate and pour the mixture from the stewpan on to it, smoothing it with a knife. 24. We take a piece of paper and cut it round to the size of the plate. We butter it with a knife. 25. We put the buttered paper over the mixture which is in the plate, to prevent the dust from getting in. 26. We take the plate and stand it on ice (if possible), or put it in a cold place to cool.226 National Training School for Cookery. 27. We take a wire sieve and put it over a piece of paper. 28. We take a piece of crumb of bread and rub it through the wire sieve. 29. We take one egg and beat it slightly with a knife on a plate. 30. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a half of lard or clarified dripping. 31. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. It must not burn. 32. We take the plate of lobster mixture, which should by this time be cold and rather stiff. 33. We shape the mixture into cutlets. This quantity will make seven. 34. We dip the cutlets into the egg, and egg them well all over with a brush. 35. We take them carefully out of the egg and cover them well with the bread crumbs. N.B.—If the cutlets are not well covered with egg and bread-crumbs they will burst in the frying. 36. We take a frying basket and lay in it the lobster cutlets, a few at a time, so as not to touch each other. 37. When the fat is quite hot, we should test it by a frimometer if possible, and the heat should rise to 345°, or by throwing into it a piece of bread: if it makes a sharp fizzing noise it is ready. 38. We put the frying basket into the fat, for three minutes, or perhaps less. The cutlets should become a pale brown. 39. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate ready to receive the cutlets when they come out of the boiling fat. This is to drain all the grease from them. 40. We take the small claws of the lobster, and stick them into the end of each cutlet, to represent the bone. 41. We take a few sprigs of parsley, wash them, dry them in a cloth, and put them into the frying basket.for serving. Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Lobster Cutlets. 227 42. We just toss the basket with the parsley into the boiling fat for a second. 43. We arrange the cutlets on a napkin on a hot dish, and garnish them with the fried parsley. It is now ready228 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 8. BOILED COD FISH AND OYSTER SAUCE. Cod-fish varies in price considerably. It is in season from October to February. Average cost of “ Oyster Sauce!' s. d. i 6 o of o if 0 of 1 8f Time required alout twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to cook Cod Fish, and make Oysier Sauce. 1. We take a slice of cod weighing one pound. 2. We put it in a basin of cold water, and wash it well. 3. We take a small fish-kettle and fill it with warm water, and add to it as much salt as will make the water taste salt. 4. We put the fish-kettle on the fire to boil. 5. We take the cod out of the basin, and place it on the drainer in the fish-kettle, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. N.B.—It must not boil fast. N.B.—While the fish is boiling, we should make the sauce: see below. 6. When the slice of cod is sufficiently cooked, the flesh will leave the bone. N.B.—The bone is usually left in, or the fish would break to pieces. 7. We serve the slice of cod on a folded napkin on a hot dish, with oyster sauce. INGREDIENTS. i dozen oysters f-oz. butter f-oz. flour i tablespoonful of cream Lemon-juice and cayenne pepper...Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Oyster Sauce. 229 For Oyster Sauce. 1. We take one dozen oysters and the liquor that is with them, and put them into a small saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire and bring them to the boil, this is to blanch the oysters. 3. We take the saucepan off the fire as soon as it boils. 4. We take a basin and pour into it the oyster liquor through a strainer. 5. We take the oysters, and lay them on a plate. 6. We take off the beards and all the hard parts of the oysters, leaving only the soft part. 7. We take a stewpan and put in half an ounce of butter, and a quarter of an ounce of flour. 8. We mix the flour and the butter well together with a wooden spoon. 9. We now add to the contents of the stewpan the oyster liquor which is in the basin. 10. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture well with a wooden spoon until it boils and thickens. 11. We now add one tablespoonfid of cream, and stir again until it boils. 12. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 13. We add six drops of lemon juice and a few grains of cayenne pepper according to taste. 14. We take the trimmed oysters and cut them into small pieces. 15. We add the pieces of oyster to the mixture in the stewpan and mix all together with a wooden spoon. We then pour the sauce into a hot sauce-boat and it is ready for serving.230 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 9. GRILLED SALMON, AND TARTARE SAUCE. Salmon varies in price considerably. It is in season from May to August. Average cost of “ Tartare Saucer INGREDIENTS. d. 2 eggs -1 - - 2 Salt and DeDDer i A tablespoonful of French vinegar Gherkins or capers 1 teaspoonful of made mustard 1 teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar 1 gill of oil 1 io| Time required, about fifteen minutes. Now we will show you how to cook Salmon, and make Tartare Sauce. 1. We take a slice of salmon weighing one pound. 2. We wipe the salmon with a clean cloth. 3. We take a plate, and pour on it about a gill of salad oil. 4. We dip the slice of salmon into the oil, on both sides, the oil will prevent the fish from drying whilst cooking. 5. We season the slice on both sides, with pepper and salt. 6. We take a gridiron and heat it on both sides, by the fire. This is to prevent the fish sticking. 7. When the gridiron is hot, we place on the slice of salmon, and let it grill for a quarter of an hour. N.B.—While the salmon is cooking, we must make the sauce.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Grilled Salmon. 231 8. We must turn the gridiron occasionally, so as to cook the fish on both sides, which should become of a pale brown colour. 9. When the fish is quite done, we can remove the bone from the centre of the slice. We serve the salmon on a napkin on a hot dish. For Tartare Sauce. 1. We take two eggs, put the yolks in one basin, and the whites (which will not be wanted) into another basin. 2. We take a wooden spoon, and just stir the yolks enough to break them. 3. We add to them a saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonfid of pepper, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar. 4. We take a bottle of salad oil, and, putting our thumb half over the top, pour in drop by drop, the oil, stirring well with a whisk the whole time; a gill of oil will be sufficient. 5. We now stir in a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard, and a teaspoonfid of tarragon vinegar. 6. We take a few gherkins or capers, and chop them up finely on a board, there should be enough to fill a table- spoon. 7. We take these chopped gherkins or capers and put them all into the sauce, and mix them with a spoon. 8. We serve the sauce in a sauce tureen, with the grilled salmon.National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. io. BAKED MACKEREL OR HERRING. Average cost of “ Mackerel or Herring ” (baked with bread crumbs and herbs). INGREDIENTS. d. 2 mackerel 6d. or herrings 2d. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped herbs and onions 1 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley Oj 1 dessertspoonful of bread crumbs ) , Pepper and salt j 3 2 oz. of dripping 1 3 With Herrings, 5d. With Mackerel, 9d. Time required about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to bake Mackerel or Herrings with herbs and bread crumbs. 1. We wash the mackerel or herrings in cold water, dry them in a cloth, and put them upon a board. 2. We take a sharp knife, cut off the heads of the fish and carefully split open each fish and take out the back bone. 3. We lay one fish open flat on a tin (skin downwards). 4. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it in water, and dry it in a cloth. 5. We put the parsley on a board and take away the stalks and chop it up as finely as possible (there should be about a dessertspoon]id). 6. We take half an onion, peel it, put it on a board, with a sprig of thyme and marjoram, and chop them up finely (there should be about a dessertspoonful). 7. We take a grater, stand it on the board, and grate a few bread crumbs (there should be about a dessertspoonfid).Cooking Fish.—Baked Mackerel or Herring. 233 8. We mix the onion, herbs, and bread crumbs together. 9. We sprinkle pepper and salt to taste, over the fish in the tin. 10. We then sprinkle over the fish the mixture of herbs and bread crumbs. 11. We take the other fish and lay it over the one in the tin (skin upwards). 12. We put two ounces of clarified dripping in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt. 13. We pour the melted dripping over the fish in the tin. 14. We cover the tin with a dish, and stand it on the hot plate or in the oven to bake for half an hour. 15. We must watch it and baste it occasionally with the dripping. 16. For serving, we turn the fish carefully out of the tin on to a hot dish.234 National Training School for Cookery. FISH, Lesson No. ii. BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK. Average cost of a “ Stuffed Haddock ” (baked). INGREDIENTS. i Haddock Bread crumbs i dessertspoonful of chopped parsley 1 teaspoonful of chopped herbs Pepper and salt 2 oz. of suet i egg........ d. 6 i 2 oz. of dripping i i ii Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to Stuff a Haddock and Bake it. 1. We take a haddock, wash it, clean it carefully in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. 2. We stand a grater on a piece of paper and grate some bread crumbs. 3. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. 4. We put the parsley on a board, and chop it up finely (There should be about a dessertspoonful) 5. We take a small sprig of thyme and marjoram, take away the stalks, and chop the herbs up finely on a board. (There should be about a teaspoonful) N.B.—The stalks will do for flavouring, but they cannot be eaten, as they are bitter. 6. We mix all the herbs together with tzvo tablespoonsful of the bread crumbs. N. B.—The remainder of the bread crumbs we shall require for rolling the fish in. 7. We add pepper and salt to taste, and mix the stuffing together with two ounces of suet (finely chopped).Cooking Fish.—Baked Stuffed Haddock. 235 8. We stuff the belly of the fish with the stuffing and sew it up. 9. We break an egg into a plate, and brush the fish over with it, then roll it in the bread crumbs, covering it well all over. 10. Viz grease a dish or tin with a piece of dripping. 11. We lay the fish on the dish or tin and put it into the oven to bake for from half to three-quarters of an hour, basting it frequently with dripping. 12. Before serving, we should carefully take away the cotton with which the fish was sewed.2$6 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 12. FISH BAKED IN VINEGAR. Average cost of “ Fish Baked in Vinegary INGREDIENTS 6 Herrings ...... 30 peppercorns 1 blade of mace 1 shalot 1 bay leaf x gill (j pint) of vinegar Salt 7\ Time required, alout two hours. Now we will show you how to Bake Fish (such as herrings or mackerel), in Vinegar. 1. We take the fish, wash them, and clean them tho- roughly in cold water. 2. We put the fish on a board, and cut them into thick pieces. 3. We lay these pieces close together in a stone jar, with thirty peppercorns and half a teaspoonful of salt. 4. We add one blade of mace and a bay-leaf. 5. We take one shalot, peel it, and add it, or part of it (according to taste), to the fish. 6. We pour in one gill (a quarter of a pint) of vinegar, and tie a piece of brown paper tightly over the top of the jar with a piece of string. 7. We put the jar into a very slow oven to bake for two hours > or it may stand in a baker’s oven all night. N B.—The fish is to be eaten cold.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Fried Plaice. 237 FISH. Lesson No. 13. FRIED PLAICE. Average cost of “ Plaice ” (fried). INGREDIENTS. 1 Plaice 1 egg Bread crumbs Dripping for frying Time required, about half an hour. s. d. 1 o O I o o| I I* Now we will show you how to fry Plaice in Egg and Bread Crumbs, or Batter. 1. We put about half a pound of clarified dripping into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat. 2. We take the plaice, wash it in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. 3. We put the plaice on a board, and with a sharp knife carefully cut off the head and the tail. 4. We hold a grater over a piece of paper and grate some bread crumbs. 5. We cut up the fish into slices or fillets. 6. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it lightly with a knife. 7. We dip the slices of fish into the egg, and egg them well all over. 8. We then roll them in the bread crumbs, covering them well. N.B.—We must shake off the loose crumbs. 9. When the dripping is quite hot and smoking we care-238 National Training School for Cookery. fully put in the fish, fingering it as little as possible, so as not to take off any of the egg or bread crumbs. N.B.—We should not put too many pieces at a time into the dripping, as they must not touch each other. 10. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on to a plate, and as the fish is fried we take it out of the dripping care- fully with a slice, and lay it on the paper to drain off the grease. N.B.—Soles or any fish can be fried in the same way. N.B.—For frying fish in batter, we dip each piece of fish in the batter, made as for meat fritters (see Cooked Meat, Lesson No. 2), and fry it in the same way as above. 11. For serving we should arrange the fish on a hot dish and garnish it with a few sprigs of parsley.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Boiled Fish. 239 FISH. Lesson No. 14. BOILED FISH. Average cost of the Sauce to be served with boiled fish (about half a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 oz. of but ter i | oz. flour oj Anchovy sauce or lemon juice o£ 1* Time required for boiling fish, about twenty minutes to three quarters of an kourt according to the size of the fish. Now we will show you how to Boil Fisk. 1. We put a saucepan or fish-kettle of water on the fire to boil. 2. We take the fish and clean it thoroughly in cold water. 3. When the water is warm, we put in the fish on a strainer or a plate (there should be sufficient water just to cover the fish.) N.B.—For salmon the water must be boiling, but for all other fish it should only be warm water. 4. We also put in some salt, enough to make the water taste salt. 5. We put the lid on the saucepan, and move it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour (according to the size of the fish). 6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally. 7. When we find that the skin of the fish is cracking, we shall know that it is sufficiently boiled. While the fish is boiling we make Melted Butter sauce (see “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 7).240 National Training School for Cookery. 8. For serving, we take the fish carefully out of the saucepan and place it on a hot dish, we pour the sauce into a sauce boat or a basin, or round the fish.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Stewed Eels. 241 FISH. Lesson No. 15. STEWED EELS. Average cost of “ Stewed Eels!' INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of eels i o 1 oz. of flour. O Oq 1 oz. of butter o i 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley ) l Cayenne pepper and salt { ° °2 * 4 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to Stew Eels. 1. We must put the eels on a board, cut off their heads, and cut down the front of them, clean them thoroughly inside, and skin them, beginning from the head. 2. We now cut them in pieces, about one inch in length, wash the pieces in cold water, and put them in a stewpan, with half a pint of cold water, put the stewpan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil, skim it well, and move it to the side of the fire, to simmer for ten minutes. 3. We put one ounce of flour in a basin, and mix it to a smooth paste with about a tablespoonful of water. 4. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely on a board, there should be about a teaspoonful. 5. When the eels have simmered, we stir in the flour, and season it with very little cayenne pepper and salt to taste, and let it cook over the fire, for about five minutes; we must stir it well. N.B.—If liked, about half a teaspoonfil of chopped onion might be added. Q2\2 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We now add one ounce of butter, and stir it well, and then add the chopped parsley. 7. For serving, we arrange the eels in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round. N.B.—Eels must be very fresh, they should be only just dead, before cook- ing. If liked, the sauce can be made richer by using stock instead of water, or the eels can be served with the following sauces : Tartare (see “Fish,’’ Lesson No. 9), Melted Butter (see “Sauces,” Lesson No. 7).Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Kedgeree. 243 FISH. Lesson No. 16. KEDGEREE. Average cost of “ Kedgereel’ d. 2 2 9! Time required, about lialf-an-hour. Now we will show you how to make Kedgeree. 1. We take a quarter of a pound of rice, wash it, boil it, -and dry it, as directed in Lesson on rice. 2. While the rice is boiling, we take a small saucepan full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil ; when it boils, we should put tzvo eggs in carefully, and let them boil hard for ten minutes. 3. We take some cold boiled fish, break it in pieces, and carefully remove all the bones. 4. When the eggs are sufficiently boiled, we take them out of the saucepan ; we should tap them all over on the edge of a basin, and take off all the shell: we then put the •eggs in a basin of cold water. 5. We take the eggs out of the water, put them on a board, cut them in halves, take out thq yolks, and cut the whites up in pieces to the shape of dice. 6. When the boiled rice is dry, we put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, put it on the fire, and when the butter is melted, we should add the rice and stir it well with a fork. INGREDIENTS. £ lb. of boiled fish £ lb. rice 2 eggs 2 ozs. butter I Cayenne pepper and salt j N.B.—We must not use a spoon.244 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We now add the fish, the whites of the eggs, a few grains of cayenne pepper (about as much as would thinly cover one side of a threepenny-piece), and salt to taste; mix it all well together, and turn it out on a hot dish. 8. We must now place a sieve over it, take the yolks of the eggs, and rub them through the sieve all over the fish and rice: it is now ready for serving.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Boiled Potatoes. 245 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. i. BOILED AND STEAMED POTATOES. Time requiredfor boiling:— Old potatoes, about half an hour. New potatoes, aboict twenty mimites. Steamed potatoes, half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. For boiling Old Potatoes. 1. We wash two pounds of potatoes well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. N.B.—If the potatoes are diseased then we take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut out the eyes and any black specks about the potato, but it is much better to boil them in their skins. 2. We put them in a saucepan with cold vteter, enough to cover them, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, to boil the potatoes for from twenty minutes to half an hour. 4. We should take a fork and put it into the potatoesy to feel if the centre is quite tender. 5. When they are sufficiently boiled, we drain off all the water, and place a clean cloth over the potatoes in the saucepan. 6. We stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, with the lid on, to steam the potatoes. 7. When the potatoes have become quite dry, we take them carefully cut of the saucepan, peel them without breaking them, and place them in a hot vegetable dish for serving.246 National Training School for Cookery. For boiling New Potatoes. 1. We wash two pounds of potatoes in cold water. 2. We take a knife and scrape them. 3. We take a saucepan of warm water, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the new potatoes, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of Salt. 5. We let them boil for a qiLarter of an hour; we should take a fork or skewer, and put it in the potatoes, to feel if the centre is quite tender. 6. We then drain off all the water, and place a clean cloth in the saucepan, over the potatoes, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire with the lid on. 7. When they have become quite dry, we take them out of the saucepan, and arrange them on a hot vegetable dish for serving. For Steamed Potatoes. N.B.—Old potatoes only, can be steamed. 1. We wash the potatoes well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. N.B.—It is best to steam the potatoes in their skins, but they can be peeled if preferred. 2. We take a potato steamer, fill the saucepan with hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. When the water is quite boiling, we put the potatoes in the steamer, and sprinkle them over with salt. 4. We place the steamer on the saucepan of boiling water, and cover it down tight to keep the steam in. 5. We let the potatoes steam for half an hour. 6. We should take a fork and put it in the potatoes, to feel if the centre is quite tender.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Steamed Potatoes. 247 serving. 7. When they are sufficiently steamed, we take them carefully out of the steamer, peel them without breaking them, and arrange them on a hot vegetable dish for248 National 'Training School for Cookery. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 2. MASHED, SAUTE, AND BAKED POTATOES. Average cost of a dish of “ Potatoes.” INGREDIENTS. For “ Mashed Potatoes.' 2 lbs of old potatoes 1 oz. of butter 1 gill of milk Pepper and salt .... 34 Time required, about forty minutes. For “ SautC Potatoes." d New potatoes 2 2 oz. of butter | Salt J 2 Time required, about half an hour. Time requiredfor Baked Potatoes, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. For a dish of Mashed Potatoes. 1. We take two pounds of old potatoes, wash them, and steam them as for steamin<gpotatoes (see “Vegetables, Lesson No. 1 ”). 2. We take a stew-pan and put in it one ounce of butter, one gill of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. 3. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 4. We place a wire sieve over a plate. 5. We take the steamed potatoes, one at a time, out of the steamer, put them on the sieve, and pass them through on to the plate as quickly as possible, rubbing them with a wooden spoon. 6. We take the sifted potato and stir it into the boiling milk, in the stew-pan. 7. We must now beat it all lightly together, and then turn it into a hot vegetable dish for serving.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Baked Potatoes. 2 49 For Saute Potatoes— 1. We take some new potatoes, as small as possible, wash them in cold water, and scrape them clean. N.B.—If the potatoes are large, they should be cut in halves, or even in quarters, and trimmed. 2. We put them in a saucepan, with cold water. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and only just bring them to the boil. 4. We then drain off the water, and wipe the potatoes dry in a clean cloth. 5. We take a thick stewpan and put in it two ounces of butter, and the potatoes. 6. We put the stewpan on a quick fire for about twenty minutes, to brown the potatoes; we must watch them, and when they have begun to brown we should toss them occa- sionally in the stewpan, so as to brown them on all sides alike. 7. We then strain off the butter, sprinkle them over with salt, and serve them on a hot vegetable dish. For Baked Potatoes— 1. We take the potatoes, wash, and scrub them well with a scrubbing-brush in a basin of cold water. 2. We take them out of the water, and dry them with a ■cloth. 3. We put them in a brisk oven to bake ; they will take from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven, and the size of the potatoes. 4. We take a steel fork or skewer, and stick it into the potatoes, to see if they are done. They must be soft inside. 5. We take a table napkin and fold it. 6. We place the folded napkin on a hot dish. 7. When the potatoes are sufficiently baked, we take them out of the oven, and arrange them on the napkin for serving.250 National Training School for Cookery. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 3. FRIED POTATOES. Average cost of “ Potato Chips or Fried Slices of Potato!' INGREDIENTS. d. i lb. of Potatoes ) Salt j 1 The use of i| lb. of clarified fat or lard for frying. Time required, about eight mimites for either. Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. For Potato Chips— 1. We wash the potatoes well in cold water, and scrut> them clean with a scrubbing-brush. 2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut out the eyes and any black specks about them. 3. We must now peel the potatoes very thinly in ribbons, and twist them into fancy shapes. 4. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a half of clarified fat or lard. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. We must test the heat of it with a piece of bread (see Lesson on “Frying”). 6. We take a frying-basket and put the ribbons of potato' in it. 7. When the fat is quite hot we put in the frying-basket with the potatoes for about six minutes. 8. We place a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 9. When the chips are done, they should be quite crisp and of a pale brown colour. We turn them out on to the paper, to drain off the grease, and sprinkle over them a little salt. 10. We serve them on a hot dish.L essons on Cooking Vegetables.—Fried Potatoes. 251 13. For serving we arrange them on a hot dish. For Fried Slices of Potato— 1 We take the potatoes, wash them clean, and peel them with a sharp knife. 2. We put the potatoes on a board, and cut them in slices, about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 3. We take a saucepan and put in it one and a half pound of clarified dripping or lard. 4. We take a frying-basket and place in it the sliced potatoes. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire to warm the fat. 6. When the fat is warm, but not very hot, we place in the frying-basket with the slices of potatoes, and let them boil in the fat, until they are quite tender. N.B.—We should take out a piece of potato and press it between the thumb and finger, to feel that it is quite tender. 7. We must now take out the frying-basket with the potatoes and place it on a plate. 8. We leave the fat on the fire to heat. 9. When the fat is quite hot, we place in the frying- basket with the potatoes for about two minutes. 10. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 11. When the potatoes are fried, they should be a pale brown ; we turn them out on to the paper to drain off the grease. 12. We should sprinkle a little salt over them..252 National Training School for Cookery, VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 4. POTATO CROQUETTES. Average cost of “ Potato Croquettes” {about 18). INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. potatoes 1 oz. butter I 1 tablespoonful of milk / 3 eggs A small bunch of parsley Bread crumbs i Pepper and salt / d. 2 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Potato Croquettes. 1. We take two pounds of potatoes, wash, scrub, and boil or steam them (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 1). N.B.—Any remains of cold potatoes could be used up in this way, instead of boiling fresh ones. 2. We place a wire sieve over a plate. 3. We take the potatoes, one at a time, place them on the sieve and rub them through with a wooden spoon as quickly as possible on to the plate. N.B.—The potatoes can be passed through the sieve much quicker while they are hot. 4. We put i oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of milk into a stewpan, and put it on the fire. 5. When the milk and butter are hot, we stir in smoothly the sifted potato. 6. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 7. We break two eggs, put the whites in a cup (as they are not required for present use), and stir the yolks, one at -a time, into the potato in the stewpan. 8. We take two or three sprigs of parsley, wash them in coldL essons on Cooking Vegeta dies. -Potato Croquettes. 2 5 3. water, dry them in a cloth, and chop them up finely on a board (there should be about a teaspoonful). 9. We sprinkle the parsley into the stewpan, and season the potato according to taste with pepper and salt. 10. We turn the potato mixture on to a plate and stands it aside till cold. 11. We put 1 lb. of clarified dripping into a deep stewpan,, and put it on the fire to heat; we must be careful it does- not burn. 12. We take some crumb of bread, and rub it through a. wire sieve on to a piece of paper. IS. When the potato mixture is cold, we form it into’ croquettes or balls, according to taste. 14. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it up slightly with a knife. 15. We dip the croquettes into the egg} and egg them well all over with a paste brush. 16. We now roll them in the bread crumbs, covering; them well all over. N.B.—We must be careful to cover them smoothly and not too thickly. 17. We take a frying basket and arrange the croquettes in it; but we must finger them as little as possible, and not allow them to touch each other. 18. When the fat on the fire is quite hot and smoking (we should test the heat by throwing in a piece of bread which should fry brown directly), we put in the frying basket for two minutes or so to fry the croquettes a pale yellow. 19. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate,, and as the croquettes are fried we turn them on to the paper to drain off the grease. 20. We put three or four small sprigs of parsley (washed and dried) into the frying basket, and just toss the basket into the boiling fat for a second or so. 21. For serving, we arrange the croquettes tastily on a hot dish, with the fried parsley in the centre.2 54 National Training School for Cookery. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 5. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Average cost of dressing “ Brussels Sprouts INGREDIENTS. d. 2 lbs. of Brussels sprouts 6 Salt i £ of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda .... [ , i ounce of butter i 4 Pepper ) ~~V\ Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Brussels Sprouts. 1. We take the Brussels sprouts, wash them well in two or three waters, and trim them. 2. We take a saucepan with plenty of warm water in it. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling, we add a tablespoon- ful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda. 5. We put in the sprouts, and let them boil quickly for from ten to twenty minutes, according to their age. N.B.—Young sprouts take the shortest time to boil. 6. We must keep the lid off the saucepan the whole time. 7. After that time, we pour the sprouts into a colander to drain. 8. When the sprouts are quite dry, we put them in a saut^-pan with one ounce of butter. 9. We sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, but they must not fry. 10. For serving, we arrange them tastily on a hot vege- table dish.JLessonson Cooking Vegetables.—Carrots & Turnips. 255 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 6. CARROTS AND TURNIPS. Average cost of dressing “ Carrots and 1 urnipsl* INGREDIENTS. d. Carrots or Turnips ) , 2 tablespoonsful of salt j Half a pint of stock 3! Dessertspoonful of castor sugar Half an ounce of butter oj Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Carrots and Turnips. For Carrots— 1. We take a saucepan of water, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. When the water is quite boiling, we add a tablespoon- ful of salt. 3. We take the carrots, and if they are quite young, we put them into the saucepan of boiling water, to boil for twenty minutes. 4. We must take a fork and stick it in the carrots to feel that they are quite tender all through. 5. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, and rub them clean with a cloth. N.B.—If the carrots are old we should wash, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them to the shape of young carrots, or cut them in quarters, or in fancy shapes, with a cutter, before boiling. 6. We should let them boil for from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 7. We take a stewpan and put the boiled cari'ots in it. 8. We pour in about a quarter of a pint of stock, enough to cover them. 9. We put in a piece of butter, the size of a nut, and256 National Training School for Cookery. sprinkle about a teaspoonful of white castor sugar over them. 10. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil (the lid should be off), and reduce to a glaze over the carrots. 11. We then take them out of the stewpan, and they are ready for serving. For Turnips— 1. We take the turnips and wash them well in cold water. 2. We take them out of the water, put them on a board, peel them with a sharp knife, and cut them in quarters, or cut them out with a round cutter. 3. We take a saucepan of water and put it on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling we add a tablespoonful of salt. 5. We now put in the cut-up turnips, and let them boil for from ten to fifteen minutes. 6. When they are sufficiently boiled, we take them out of the saucepan, and put them into a stewpan with about a quarter of a pint of stock, enough to cover them. 7. We add to them a piece of butter, the size of a nuty and sprinkle over them about a teaspoonful of white castor sugar. 8. We put the stewpan on the hre to boil (the lid should be off), and reduce to a glaze over the turnips. 9. We then take them out of the stewpan, and they are ready for serving. N.B.—The turnips and the carrots, as described above, can be served with braised veal (see Braised Fillet of Veal) or separately as a vegetable.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.-Boiled Cauliflower. 257 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 7. BOILED CAULIFLOWER AND CAULI- FLOWER AU GRATIN. Average cost of dressing “ Cauliflower au Gratia!' INGREDIENTS. d. Cauliflower 6 Salt i Half an’ ounce of butter .. ; 1 i ounce of flour ) Tablespoonful of cream i| 2 ounces of Parmesan cheese ) Cayenne pepper J 3 Time required, about an hottr. Now we will show you how to dress a Caulifloiver. 1. We take a cauliflower and wash it well in two or three waters, and take a knife, and cut off the end of the stalk and any withered outside leaves. 2. We put it in a basin of cold water, with a dessertspoon- fid of salt, and let it stand for two or three minutes. 3. We take a large saucepan full of water, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling we put in a table- spoon fid of salt. 5. We take the cauliflower out of the salt and water, and place it in the saucepan with the flower downwards, and let it boil till it is quite tender for from fifteen to twenty minutes. 6. We must take it carefully out with a slice, and feel the centre of the flower with our finger, to see that it is quite tender. 7. After that time we take it out of the saucepan, and put it on a sieve to drain. 8. For serving, we place it on a hot vegetable dish.258 National Training School for Cookery. If Cauliflower au Gratin be required— 1. We take the cauliflower and wash it, and boil it in the same way as described above, from Note i to Note 6. 2. When the cauliflower is sufficiently boiled, we take it out of the saucepan with a slice and put it on a plate. 3. We take a knife and cut off all the outside green' leaves. 4. We put a cloth over the cauliflower, and squeeze all the water out of the cauliflower. 5. We put half an ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a stewpan, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 6. We pour in one gill (or quarter of a pint) of cold water. 7. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly until it boils and thickens. 8. We now add one tablespoonful of cream, cayenne pepper (about as much as would very thinly cover half the top of a threepenny piece}, and salt, according to taste. 9. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, until the sauce is required for use. 10. We take tzvo ounces of Parmesan cheese, and grate it with a grater on to a piece of paper. 11. We now take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 12. We stir rather more than half the grated cheese into the sauce. 13. We place the cauliflower on a tin dish. 14. We pour the sauce all over the cauliflower. 15. We take the remainder of the grated cheese and sprinkle it over the cauliflower, and brown the top of it with a hot salamander. 16. The cauliflower should become a pale brown, and be served hot.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Spinach. 259 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 8. SPINACH. Average cost of dressing “ Spinach, ” INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of spinach Salt 3 ounces of butter Half a gill of cream .... Pepper ( A slice of bread J s. d. o 6 0 3 0 3 O Oj X o£ Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Spinach. 1. We take two pounds of spinach and place it on a board. 2. We must pick off all the stalks from the leaves. 3. We put the leaves in plenty of cold water, and wash them two or three times. 4. We turn the spinach on to a colander to drain. 5. We take a large saucepan and put the spinach into it, sprinkle a saltspoonful of salt over it, and put it on the fire to boil. The drops of water on the leaves and their own juice are sufficient without adding any water. 6. We let it boil quickly for ten minutes, with the cover off. 7. We then pour the spinach into the colander to drain. 8. We must now press all the water out of the spinach,, squeezing it quite dry. 9. We put it on a board and chop it up as finely as possible. N.B.—If preferred, the spinach might be rubbed through a wire sieve instead of being chopped up. 10. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter.260 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We put the spinach in the stewpan, and add about half a saltspoonf nl of pepper and a saltspoonful of salt or more, according to taste, and half a gill of cream, and mix all together with a wooden spoon. 12. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the spinach until it is quite hot. 13. We cut a slice of crumb of bread, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, put it on a board, and cut it up into triangular pieces. 14. We take a frying-pan, and put into it two ounces of blitter or clarified dripping. 15. We put the frying-pan on the fire to heat the fat. 16. When the fat is quite hot, we throw in the pieces of bread, and let them fry a pale brown. 17. We take the pieces of fried bread and arrange them round a hot vegetable dish to form a wall. 18. We serve the dressed spinach in the centre.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Peas. 261 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 9. PEAS. Average cost of dressing “Peas.” INGREDIENTS. ^ a peck of Peas r o Salt 1 £ of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda .. > o of £ an ounce of butter ) Castor sugar o 1 1 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Peas. 1. We take th^ peas and shell them. 2. We take a saucepan full of warm water and put it on the fire to boil. % 3. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the shelled peas, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda. N.B.—The soda will keep the peas a good colour. 4. We let them boil for from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the age of the peas. (The cover should be off the saucepan.) 5. After that time we should feel the peas, that they are quite soft, we then take them out of the saucepan and drain off all the water in a colander. 6. We now turn the peas into a saute-pan with half an ounce of butter. 7. We sprinkle about half a teaspoonful of salt, and about a teaspoonful of castor sugar over the peas, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, but they must not fry. 8. For serving, we arrange them on a hot vegetable dish.262 National Training School for Cookery. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 10. HARICOT BEANS. Average cost of “Haricot Beans” with “Parsley and Butter B INGREDIENTS. d. 1 pint of beans 3 1 oz. of butter 1 A sprig of parsley j Pepper and salt > o| 5 oz. of clarified dripping ) 42 Time required, after the beans are soaked, about two hours and ten minutes. Now we will show you how to boil Haricot Beans, and serve them with parsley and butter. 1. We soak one pint of haricot beans in cold water all night. 2. We put them into a saucepan with three pints of cold water, and a quarter of an ounce of clarified dripping. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils we move it rather to the side of the fire and let it boil very gently for two hours. 4. After that time we turn the beans on to a colander, drain off the water, and put the beans back into the dry saucepan with one ounce of butter. 5. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a cloth, put it on a board and chop it up as finely as possible. 6. We sprinkle the parsley over the beans and season them with pepper and salt. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the contents carefully for about five minutes. 8. For serving, we turn the beans on to a hot dish.Lessons on Cooking- Vegetables.—Turnips. 263 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. ii. TURNIPS. Average cost of a dish of “ Turnips ” boiled and mashed. INGREDIENTS. d. 4 large turnips 4 i oz. of butter \ l Pepper and salt j 5 Time required, ahout three-qziarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to boil Turnips and mash them. 1. We put two quarts of warm water and a tablespoonful of salt into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take some turnips, wash them in cold water, and peel them thickly with a sharp knife. 3. If the turnips are very large, we should cut them in quarters. 4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we put in the turnips and let them boil gently until they are quite tender. 5. We should feel them with a fork to see if they are tender all through. 6. We then turn them into a colander and drain them very dry. 7. For serving, we put them on to a hot dish. If mashed turnips are required, 8. We boil them as above. 9. We squeeze them as dry as possible in the colander, pressing them with a plate. 10. When the turnips are quite free from water, we hold the colander over a saucepan and rub the turnips through with a wooden spoon.264 National Training School for Cookery. 13. For serving, we turn the turnips on to a hot dish. 11. We put one ounce of butter into the saucepan with the turnips and pepper and salt to taste. 12. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the contents until the butter is well mixed with the turnips and they are thoroughly warmed through.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Carrots, 265 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 12. CARROTS. Average cost of a dish of “ Carrots INGREDIENTS. d. Carrots, 6 young 3^., or 4 old ) 1 tablespoonful of salt J 4 4 Now we will show you how to boil Carrots. 1. We put tivo quarts of warm water into a saucepan with one good tablespoonful of salt, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take the carrots and cut off the green tops and wash the carrots well in cold water. 3. We scrape the carrots clean with a sharp knife, and carefully remove any black specks. 4. If the carrots are very large we cut them in halves and quarters. 5. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the carrots and let them boil until they are tender. N.B.—Young carrots need not be cut up, nor do they take so long to boil as old ones. 6. For serving we turn the carrots into a colander to drain, and then put them on a hot dish.266 National Training School for Cookery, VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 13. STEWED LENTILS. Average cost of “ Stezued Lentils" (one pint). INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of brown lentils (French) 3 1 oz. of butter 1 x gill of stock 1 * onion ) Pepper and salt J J _5§ Time required, after the lentils are soaked, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to stew lentils. 1. We take one pint of brown lentils (the French are best suited for stewing), wash them well in cold water, and put them to soak in water for four hours, or all night is best. 2. After that time, we take the lentils out of the water, put them in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, add a teaspoonful of salt, put the saucepan over the fire to boil. When it boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire to simmer for one hour. N.B.—The lid should be off the saucepan, all the water will be absorbed by the lentils. 3. We take one small onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 4. We put one ounce of butter into a saucepan, add the sliced onion, put it over the fire to fry the onion brown. We must stir it occasionally, and be careful the onion does not burn. 6. When the lentils are done, we turn them into the saucepan with the onion, and add one gill (or J of a pint) of second stock. We season it with pepper and salt to taste, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes. 6. For serving we pour the contents of the saucepan into a hot vegetable dish.Lessons on Making Sauces.—White Sauce. 267 SAUCES. Lesson No. i. WHITE SAUCE. Average cost of “ White Sauce” (about one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of white stock o q\ 2 oz. of butter o 2 if oz. of flour o of 6 mushrooms o 3 Half a pint of cream 1 o The juice of half a lemon o of 2 Time required (if the Stock is made), about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make White Sauce. 1. We put tivo ounces of butter into a stewpan. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire, and when the butter is melted we stir in one ounce and a half of flour with a wooden spoon. 3. We add one pint of white stock (see Lesson on “ Stock”),, and stir it until it boils. 4. We take half a dozen mushrooms, wash them and peel them. 5. We add them to the sauce. 6. We let it come to the boil again, then move the stew- pan to the side of the fire, with the lid half on, to simmer for twenty minutes, to throw up the butter. 7. As the butter rises we skim it off with an iron spoon. 8. We pour the sauce through a tammy cloth into another saucepan. 9. We put this saucepan on the fire, and stir till it boils, then add half a pint of cream, take half a lemon, and squeeze in the juice, and let the sauce boil well, for from three to five minutes. 10. We pour it into a basin and stir while it cools, it is then ready for use.268 National Training School for Cookery. SAUCES. Lesson No. 2. BROWN SAUCE. Average cost of “ Brown Sauce? (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of brown stock 1 \ oz. of flour Salt and pepper 2 oz. butter 4 mushrooms 1 carrot x. small onion 1 shalot s. d. o 7\ O Oj o 2 O 2 o o| O Ox O Oj I I Time required, about 15 minutes. Now we will show you how to make Brown Sauce. 1. We take four mushrooms (if large, or six small), cut •off the end of the stalks, wash them well in cold water, and peel them. 2. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean, and cut it in slices. 3. We take one small onion, and a shalot, wash them, peel them, and cut them in slices. 4. We put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and put it ■on the fire to melt. 5. When the butter in the stewpan is melted, we add all the vegetables, and let them fry brown ; we also stir in two ■ounces of flour, and mix it into a smooth paste with a wooden spoon. 6. We now add one pint of brown stock, and stir the sauce smoothly over the fire, until it boils and thickens. N.B.—The mtiskrooms might be omitted if liked, and the sauce flavoured according to the dish with which it is to be served. 7. We then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes.a basin, and it is then ready for use. Lessons on Making Sauces.—Brown Sauce. 269- 8. We must watch it carefully, and skim off all the butter as it rises to the top of the sauce. 9. We season the sauce with pepper and salt according to taste. N.B.—If the sauce is not brown enough in colour, a teaspoonful of caramel (burnt sugar) might be stirred into it. N.B.—For making caramel (browned sugar) for colouring gravies, &c. We put a quarter of a pound of moist or loaf sugar into an old saucepan, and put it on the fire and let it burn until it has become quite a dark brown liquid ; we add to it half a pint of boiling water and let it boil for five minutes, stirring it occasionally ; we then strain it, and pour it in a bottle, and it is ready for use at any time. 10. We now strain the sauce through a tammy sieve into2'jo National Training School for Cookery. 6. The sauce is now ready for use. SAUCES. Lesson No. 3. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Average cost of “ Mayonnaise Sauce ” (not quite half a pint). INGREDIENTS. 2 eggs Salt and pepper I teaspoonful of common vinegar ....... ^ a teaspoonful of mustard 1 teaspoonful of Tarragon or French vinegar 1 gill of salad oil Time required, alout io minutes. Now we will show you how to make Mayonnaise Sauce. 1. We take two eggs and put the yolks in one basin and the whites (which will not be wanted) into another basin. 2. We take a wooden spoon and just stir the yolks enough to break them. 3. We add to them a saltspoonful of salt, and half a salt- spoonful of pepper. 4. We take a bottle of salad oil, and, putting our thumb half over the top, pour in, drop by drop, the oil, stirring well with a whisk the whole time ; a gill of oil will be sufficient. 5. We now stir in smoothly a teaspoonful of Tarragon or French vinegar, and a teaspoonful of common vinegar, also half a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard, according to taste.Lessons on Making Sauce.—Piquante Sauce. 271 SAUCES. Lesson No. 4. SAUCE PIQUANTE Average cost of Sauce Piquante or sharp sauce (about half a pint) INGREDIENTS. d. 1 shalot, half a carrot, 3 mushrooms 2\ 1 oz. of butter 1 f oz. of flour o^ Half a pint of brown stock '. 3 j 1 sprig of thyme 1 bay leaf Salt and Cayenne pepper.. 2 tablespoonsful of vinegar 8 Time required, about twenty-Jive minutes. Now we will show you how to make Sauce Piquante or sharp sauce. 1. We take a shalot and three mushrooms, and peel them, we scrape half a carrot, and then chop them, up together very finely on a board. 2. We put the chopped shalot, carrot, and mushroom into a stewpan with one ounce of butter. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire and try them brown. 4. We then stir in half an ounce of flour and half a pint of brown stock (see Lesson on “ Stock ”). 5. We also add one sprig of thyme, a bay leaf j and one tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce and stir the sauce well until it boils. 6. We then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. 7. We season the sauce with salt according to taste, Cayenne pepper (enough to cover very thinly half the top of a threepenny piece), and add two tablespoonsful of vinegar. 8. We strain the sauce and it is then ready for use.National Training School for Cookery. 272 SAUCES. Lesson No. 5. DUTCH SAUCE. Average cost of “ Dutch Sauce f INGREDIENTS. d. Half a pint of melted butter 3 5 yolks of eggs 5 Salt and Cayenne pepper ( 2 teaspoonsful of lemon juice ) 9 N.B. —If liked, a more economical Dutch sauce can be made. Ingredients required. d. \ a teaspoonful of flour 1 1 oz. of butter ) 2 tablespoonsful of vinegar j 2 tablespoonsful of water 2J The yolks of 2 eggs ) The juice of half a lemon 7 z Salt and pepper ) * Time required, about twenty minutes. ^ Mix the flour and butter together, in a stewpan over the fire, then add the eggs, vinegar, and water, and proceed in the same way as below, from note four. Great care should be taken to mix it smoothly and not let it curdle. Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make Dutch Sauce. 1. We take half a pint of melted butter and put it into a stewpan. 2. We add the yolks of five eggs. 3. We stand the stewpan in a saucepan of hot water over the fire, and stir well with a whisk. 4. We season it with salt according to taste, and Cayenne pepper (enough to cover very thinly half the top of a three- penny piece). 5. We must stir continually until it thickens, and we must not let the sauce boil or it will curdle. 6. Just before the sauce is finished we stir in two tea- spoonsful of lemon juice. 7. We pour the sauce into a hot sauce-boat and it is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Sauce.— 'Tomato Sauce. 273 SAUCES. Lesson No. 6. TOMATO SAUCE. Average cost of“ Tomato Sauce” (about one gill). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 6 tomatos i 6 3 shalots o i| 1 tablespoonful of vinegar ., 2 oz. of lean ham i bayleaf and sprig of thyme 12 peppercorns and salt ..., i oz. of butter o i Time required, about twenty mimites. Now we will show you how to make Tomato Sane 1. We take a saute-pan, and butter it well inside, with one ounce of butter. 2. We take six tomatoes, wipe them in a clean cloth, put them on a plate, cut them in slices ; and put them into the saute-pan. 3. We take two ounces of lean ham, .and chop it up finely. 4. We take three shalots, peel them, chop them up finely on a board, and put them into the saute-pan, we also add the chopped ham, twelve peppercorns, half a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a sprig of thyme and a bayleaf \ tied together. 5. We put the saute-pan over the fire, and stir the contents well, with a spoon, until they are reduced ; it will take about fifteen minutes. 6. We place a hair sieve over a basin, pour the contents of the saute-pan on to it, and rub them through, with a wooden spoon ; when it has all passed through into the basin, we return it to the saute-pan and let it warm through over the fire : It is now ready for use, to be served with cutlets or with Brown sauce for Calf s-head. s274 National Training School for Cookery. SAUCES. Lesson No. 7. MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. (For Fish or Pudding.) Average cost of “Melted Butter Sauce” (about a quarter of a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 oz. of fresh butter i§ 2 oz. of flour 5 Time required, about 5 minutes. Now we will show you howto make Melted Butter Sauce. 1. We put one ounce of butter into a stewpan, put it over the fire ; and when it is melted, we stir in half an ounce of four, and mix them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. 2. We now pour in a gill {(quarter of a pint) and a half of cold zvater, and stir the sauce smoothly until it boils and thickens. N.B.—About a quarter of an oz. of btitter stirred into the sauce just before serving, very much improves it, and makes it smoother. If the sauce is to be served with fish, we can add a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, or a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. If the sauce is for puddings, we sweeten it according to taste with castor sugar, and add, if liked, half a wineglassful of sherry ; if it is to be served with treacle pudding, the sauce should be sweetened with treacle.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Puff Paste. 275 PASTRY. Lesson No. i. PUFF PASTE. Average cost of “ Puff Paste” (to cover about 1 pint and a \ pie dish, or make about 8 patty cases). INGREDIENTS. b lb. of flour d. 1 lb. of fresh butter 8 Salt ) _i A few drops of lemon juice j °2 I* Time required, one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Puff Paste for a fruit tart, tartlets, or patty cases. 1. We take half a pound of butter and lay it on a clean cloth. 2. We fold the cloth over the butter and squeeze it to get all the water out of the butter. 3. We take half a pound of flour, put it in a heap on a board, and make a well in the centre of the floitr. 4. We add a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoon- ful of lemon juice, and sufficient water to make the paste of the same consistency as the squeezed butter, and work it well together. 5. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and also sprinkle flour on the board to prevent the paste from sticking. 6. We roll out the paste rather thin, to about a quarter of an inch in thickness.276 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We place the pat of squeezed butter on one half of the paste, and fold the other half over the butter, so as to cover it entirely, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 8. We let it stand on a plate in a cool place for a quarter of an hour. N.B.—It is not necessary to do this in cold weather, it might be rolled at once. 9. We bring the paste back and place it on the board, we roll it out with the rolling pin and fold it over in three. 10. We turn it round with the rough edges towards us. 11. We roll it again and fold it in three. 12. We put it aside again for a quarter of an hour. 13. We bring it back on the board and roll it with a rolling pin and fold it in three, twice as before. 14. We put it aside again for a quarter of an hour. 15. We bring it back to the board and roll it and fold it in three as before. 16. We put it aside for another quarter of an hour. 17. We bring it back to the board, and roll it out ready, if for a fruit tart, (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No. 2, from note 14 to note 27). 18. If the paste is used for tartlets, the paste should be one-eighth of an inch thick. (If for patty cases, see below). 19. We take the tartlet tins and wet them with thz paste brush. 20. We cut the paste out with a cutter, a size larger than the tins. The cutter must be floured, or the paste will stick to it. 21. We fix the paste into the tins, and put a dummy in the centre of the tartlet, to prevent the paste rising straight. 22. We put the tins on a baking sheet. 23. We put the baking sheet in a hot oven for six minutes; the thermometer fixed in the oven door should rise to 300° Fahrenheit. 24. When the tartlets are baked sufficiently, we take them out of the oven.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Puff Paste. 277^ 25. We take out the dummies, and turn the paste out of the tin. 26. We fill in the tartlets with jam. N.B.—If Patty Cases are required, 1. We take the puffpaste, it should be half an inch thick, and stamp it out with a round cutter, the usual size of an oyster patty. 2. We take these cut rounds, and place them on a baking sheet. 3. We take a round cutter, three sizes smaller, and dip it in hot water, and stamp the cut rounds of paste in the centre, but not right through. 4. We put the baking sheet in a hot oven for six minutes. N.B.—The heat of the oven should be the same as for tartlets. 5. When the patties are sufficiently baked, we take the baking sheet out of the oven. 6. The cut centre of each patty case will have risen so that we can take it off. 7. We take a small knife, and with the point cut out all the moist paste from the centre of the patty case. 8. Now the cases are ready to be filled in with either prepared oysters, minced veal, chicken, or pheasant, &c., according to taste.278 National Training School for Cookery\ PASTRY. Lesson No. 2. SHORT CRUST. Average cost of “ Short Crust ” (to cover a pint and a half pie dish.) INGREDIENTS. d. 6 oz. of flour 1 4 oz. of butter 1 oz. of castor sugar Yolk of 1 egg Salt A teaspoonful of lemon juice — Time required, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make Short Crust. 1. We take six ounces of flour and four ounces of butter. 2. We put these on a clean board, and mix them well together, rubbing them lightly with our hands until there are no lumps of butter left, and the flour and butter resemble sifted bread crumbs. 3. We take a large tablespoonful of castor sugar. 4. We mix the sugar well into the buttered flour. 5. We heap it on the board, making a well in the centre. 6. We take the yolk of one egg and place it in the well. 7. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the egg. 8. We add a teaspoonfid of lemon juice. 9. We add a large tablespoonfid of cold water. 10. We slowly and lightly mix all these ingredients with our fingers until they are formed into a stiff paste. 11. We must keep our hands and the board well floured that the paste may not stick. 12. We fold the paste over and knead it lightly with our knuckles.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Short Crust. 279 13. We take a rolling pin and flour it, and roll out the paste to the size and thickness required. 14. If the paste is for a fruit tart we roll it out to the shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to the thick- ness of about a quarter of an inch. 15. We arrange the fruit in the pie dish, heaped up in the centre. 16. We sprinkle a tablespoonfid of moist sugar over the fruit, or more or less according to the fruit used. 17. We take a paste brush and wet the edge of the dish with water, or a little white of egg. 18. We cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of the pie dish and place it round the edge of the dish. 19. We take the paste brush again, and wet the edge of the paste with water or white of egg. 20. We take the remaining paste and lay it over the pie dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. 21. We must be very careful not to break the paste. 22. We take a knife and trim off all the rough edges of the paste round the edge of the dish. 23. We take a knife and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. 24. We make a little hole in the paste of the tart, to let out the steam. 25. We take the paste brush, and wet the tart all over with water. 26. We sprinkle some castor sugar over the tart. This is to glaze it. 27. We now put the tart into a hot oven (the thermo meter fixed in the oven door should rise to 240° Fahrenheit) for half an hour, or three quarters of an hour, according to the size of the tart. We must watch it occasionally and turn it, to prevent its burning. It should become a pale brown. It is then ready for serving, either hot or cold according to taste.280 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 3. GENOESE PASTRY. Average cost of “ Genoese Pastry. ” INGREDIENTS. s. d. 6 ozs. of flour o i 6 ozs. of butter o 6 8 Ozs. of castor sugar o 3 7 eggs o 7 1 5 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Genoese Pastry. 1. We take a small stewpan and put in it six ounces of butter. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire to melt the butter. We must be careful that it does not burn or boil. 3. We take a round tin two inches deep and fit into it a sheet of paper, cut round so that it will allow one inch of paper to be above the edge of the tin. 4. We must butter the paper with a paste brush dipped in the melted butter. 5. We stand a wire sieve over a plate, and rub through it six ounces of flour. 6. We take a large basin and break into it seven eggs. 7. We add half a pound of castor sugar. 8. We take a large saucepan of boiling water and put it on the fire. 9. We stand the basin containing the eggs and sugar in the saucepan of boiling water, and whip the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes. They must not get very hot. 10. We take the basin out of the saucepan, and stand it on the table.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Gettoese Pastry. 281 11. We now add the butter and then sprinkle in the sifted flour, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon all the time. 12. We pour this mixture into the prepared tin. 13. We put the tin into a quick oven to bake (the ther- mometer in the oven door should rise to 220°), for half an hour. The mixture should become a pale brown. N.B.—When the paste is sufficiently baked no mark should remain on it if pressed with the finger. 14. When it is quite baked, we take the tin out of the oven, and turn the cake upside down on a hair sieve to cool. 15. When it is cold we cut it into little shapes with a cutter. Sandwiches of jam can be made with it if required.282 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 4. ROUGH PUFF PASTE. Average cost of “ Rough Puff Paste” (to cover about a pint and \ pie dish). INGREDIENTS. 8 ozs. of flour 6 ozs. of butter Salt \ a teaspoonful of lemon juice d. 6 <* 7\ Time required, about a quarter of an hoicr to make. Now we will show you how to make Rough Puff Paste. 1. We take eight ounces of flour and six ounces of butter and put them on a clean board. 2. We take a knife and chop up the butter in the flour. 3. We heap it on the board, making a well in the centre. 4. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the flour, and squeeze half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 5. We add a large tablespoonful of cold water, and beat it up slightly with a knife. 6. We now slowly, and lightly, mix it all with our fingers, adding more water if necessary, until it be formed into a stiff paste. 7. We must keep our hands and the board well floured, that the paste may not stick. 8. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste, and fold it over in half. 9. We turn it round with the rough edges towards us. 10. We roll it again and fold it in half.Lessons on Making Pastry. —Rough Puff Paste. 283 11. We must roll out the paste, and fold it twice more as before. N. B.—The paste is now ready to be used for a meat pie, apple tart, tart- lets, &c. The heat of the oven should rise to 280°, but it must be reduced down to 2200 after the first quarter 0/ an hour..284 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 5. SUET CRUST FOR BEEF-STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING, OR ROLY POLY PUDDING. Average cost of “ Suet Crust ” (for a quart pudding). INGREDIENTS. d. | lb. of flour 5 oz. of beef suet 1 a Salt j 24 4 For Beefsteak Pudding. For Roly Poly Pudding. s. d. d. lb. of rump or beefsteak 19 \ pot of jam or marmalade.. 4 | lb. of beef kidney ) Q 6 Pepper and salt j 2 3 Time required, about three hours and a half for the Meat Pudding. For the Roly Poly, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Suet Crust, to be used for either a Beef-Steak Pudding,, or Roly-Poly, &c. 1. We take five ounces of beef suet, and put it on a board. 2. We take a knife, and cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 3. We put half a pound of flour into a basin, and add to it the chopped suet and a teaspoonful of salt. N.B.—If the paste is to be used for a Roly Poly, we should only add a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt. 4. We rub the suet well into the flour with our hands. 5. We then add, by degrees, enough cold water to make it into a stiff paste. We should mix it well. 6. We take the paste out of the basin, and put it on a board.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Suet Crust. 285 7. We take a rolling-pin and flour it. We also sprinkle flour on the board, to prevent the paste from sticking. N.B.—If a Roly Poly is to be made, we proceed as directed, see Note 24. 8. We roll out the paste once, to the thickness of rather more than one-eighth of an inch. N.B.—Now the paste is ready for use, and if it is required for beef-steak, pudding— 9. We take a quart pudding basin, and butter it well inside. 10. We line the basin smoothly inside with paste. 11. We take a knife, flour it, and cut away the paste that is above the edge of the basin. 12. We fold this paste together, and roll it out to a round, the size of the top of the basin, one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 13. We take one pound and a half of rump or beef-steak, put it on a board, and cut it into thin slices. 14. We flour the slices well (using about a tablespoonful of flour), and season them with plenty of pepper and salt. 15. We take half a pound of beef kidney, and cut it up in small pieces. 16. We roll up the slices of beef-steak, and fill the basin with the meat and the kidney. N.B.—The pudding might be flavoured with shalot, parsley, and mushrooms according to taste. 17. We now pour into the basin one gill of water. 18. We wet the paste round the edge of the basin with cold water, and cover over the top of the basin with the round of paste. 19. We must join the paste together at the edge of the basin, pressing it down with our thumb. 20. We take a pudding cloth, flour it, and lay it over the top of the basin, tying it on tightly with a piece of twine. 21. We take a large saucepan of warm water, and put it on the fire to boil.286 National Training School for Cookery. 22. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for three hours. 23. For serving, we take off the cloth and turn the pudding carefully out of the basin on to a hot dish. 24. For a Roly-Poly Pudding, we roll out the paste very thin, we take half a pot of jam or marmalade, spread it well all over the paste, and then roll the paste up. 25. We take a clean cloth, wring it out in warm water sprinkle a little flour over it, place the rolled paste in the middle of it, roll it round, and tie it securely at each end with string. 26. We put the pudding into the saucepan of boiling, water to boil for two hours. 27. For serving, we take the pudding out, carefully take off the cloth, and place the pudding on a hot dish.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Short Crust. 287 PASTRY. Lesson No. 6. SHORT CRUST FOR APPLE TURNOVERS AND APPLE DUMPLINGS, &c. Average cost of “ Apple Turnovers ” (about three). INGREDIENTS. d. f lb. of flour 2 | lb. of clarified dripping or butter 4d. 2 2 a teaspoonful of baking powder ) g 3 apples j 3 teaspoonsful of moist sugar 1 7 7Y#z£ required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Apple Turnovers. 1. We take three apples, peel and quarter them, cut out the core, and cut them into thin slices. N.B.—One apple is required for each turnover. N.B.—If a fruit pie or apple dumplings are required, see below. 2. We put three quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, and mix into it half a teaspoonful of baking powder. 3. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping or butter, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 4. We add enough cold water to moisten it, and mix it into a stiff paste. 5. We take a board, flour it, and turn the paste out on to it. 6. We flour a rolling pin, and roll out the paste to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 7. We cut the paste into rounds; each round should be about the size of a small plate. 8. We lay the apple on one half of the round of paste, and sprinkle over it one teaspoonful of moist sugar.288 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We wet the edges of the paste, fold the paste over the #///<?, pressing the edges together with our thumb. N.B.—We must be careful to join the paste together on all sides, or the juice of the apple will run out whilst it is cooking. 10. We grease a tin with a little dripping, and place the turnovers on it. 11. We put the tin into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake for a quarter of an hour. 12. For serving we place the turnovers on a hot dish. For Baked Apple Dumplings. 1. We divide the paste into three portions. 2. We take three apples, peel them, and cut out the core from the centre. N.B.—We must not cut the apples in pieces. 3. We fill the centre of the apples with moist sugar. 4. We press each apple into the centre of each portion of paste, and gradually work the paste over the apple, until the apple is entirely covered in. N.B.—We must be very careful to join the paste together as neatly as pos- sible, so as not to show the join ; and there must be no cracks in the paste. 5. We grease a tin, as described above, place the dumplings on it, and put it in the oven to bake for a quarter of an hour. 6. For serving we take the dumplings off the tin, and put them on a hot dish. 1. If the paste is for a Fruit Pie, we roll it out to the shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to the thick- ness of about a quarter of an inch. 2. We arrange the fruit in the pie dish, heaped up in the centre. 3. We sprinkle a tablespoonful of moist sugar over the fruit, or more or less according to the fruit used. 4. We take apaste brush and wet the edge of the dish with water, or a little white of egg.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Short Crust. 289 5. We cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of the pie dishy and place it round the edge of the dish. 6. We take the paste brush again and wet the edge of the paste with water or white of egg. 7. We take the remaining paste and lay it over the pie dishy pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. 8. We must be very careful not to break the paste. 9. We take a knife and trim off all the rough edges of the paste round the edge of the dish. 10. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. 11. We make a little hole in the paste of the tarty to let out the steam. 12. We take the paste brush and wet the tart all over with water. 13. We sprinkle some pounded loaf sugar over the tarty this is to glaze it. 14. We now put the tart into a hot oven (the thermo- meter at the oven door should rise to 240°) for half an houry or three quarters of an hour, according to the size of the tart. We must watch it occasionally and turn it, to prevent its burning; it should become a pale brown. It is then ready for serving, either hot or cold according to taste. N.B.—If a better crust is required for apple turnovers, &c„ see "Pastry," Lesson No. a. T290 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 7. FLAKY CRUST FOR FRUIT PIES AND OPEN TARTS. Average cost of “Flaky Crust ” (to cover a quart pie or tart). INGREDIENTS. d. f lb. of flour 2 | lb. of butter 8 Time required (for making the pastry), about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Flaky Crust for pies or tarts. 1. We put three-quarters of a pound of flour and a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt into a basin, and mix it into a stiff paste with water (about one gill). 2. We flour a board, and turn the paste out on it. 3. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to a thin sheet. 4. We divide the half-pound of butter into three portions. 5. We take one portion of the butter and spread it all over the paste with a knife. 6. We sprinkle a little flour over the butter, and fold the paste into three. 7. We flour the rolling pin and roll out the paste, and spread another portion of the butter over it. 8. We fold the paste as before, roll it out, and add the remainder of the bittter.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Flaky Crust. 291 9. We then fold the paste again, and roll it out to the size and thickness required either for a fruit pie or an open tart. N.B.—This crust should be baked in a quick oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°). N.B.—The top of a fruit pie should be brushed over with water, and then sprinkled with pounded white sugar. N.B.—For an open tart we take a tin (the size required) and grease it with clarified dripping or butter. We should roll out the paste to a thin sheet about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and rather larger than the size of the tin. We place the paste in the greased tin, pressing it into the shape of the tin with our thumb. We should place a dummy or a piece of crust of bread in the centre of the paste to prevent the paste from rising while baking. We put the tin in the oven to bake for twenty minutes. The jam should be put into the tart after it is baked.292 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. i. CABINET PUDDING. Average cost of “ Cabinet Pudding” (about one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. 1 doz. cherries or raisins and two or three pieces of angelica :.... 4 sponge cakes and 2 a doz. ratafias ..... 1 oz. of loaf sugar and 15 drops of essence of Vanilla 4 eggs 1 pint of milk 1 3l j. d. O o 7 o o£ Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cabinet Pudding. 1. We take a pint and a half mould\ and butter it inside with our fingers. 2. We take a dozen raisins, or dried cherries, and two or three pieces of angelica, and ornament the bottom of the mould with them. 3. We take four sponge cakes and break them in pieces. 4. We partly fill the mould with pieces of cake and half a dozen ratafias. 5. We take 4yolks and 2 whites of eggs, and put them in a basin. 6. We add to the eggs one ounce of white sugar, and whip them together lightly. 7. We stir in by degrees one pint of milk. 8. We flavour it by adding fifteen drops of essence of Vanilla.Lessons on Making Puddings.—“ Cabinet.” 293 9. We pour this mixture over the cakes in the mould. 10. We place a piece of buttered paper over the top of the mould. 11. We take a saucepan half full of boiling water, and stand it on the side of the fire. 12. We stand the mould in the saucepan to steam for from three quarters of an hour to an hour. N.B.—The water should only reach half-way up the mould, or it would boil over and spoil thspudding. 13. For serving, we turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish. N B. —For a cold “ Cabinet Puddingsee “ Puddings/’ Lesson No. 27.294 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 2. BAKED LEMON PUDDING. Average cost of “Lemon Pudding” {in about 1 pint dish). INGREDIENTS. 2 lemons 3 ozs. of loaf sugar 3 eggs h a gill of cream 5 a gill of milk 2 ozs. of cake crumbs £ inch of cinnamon stick Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Lemon Pudding. 1. We take two lemons, wipe them clean in a cloth, and, grate the rind of them on six lumps of sugar. 2. We take a quarter of an inch of the stick of cinnamon and put it in a mortar. 3. We pound the cinnamon well in the mortar with the sugar. 4. We put this into a basin. 5. We take three ounces of cake crumbs, and add them to the above in the basin, and mix all well together. 6. We take the two lemons, cut them in halves, and squeeze the juice of them^into the basin, through a strainer. 7. We add the yolks of three eggs, and beat them in with the above. {Two of the whites of eggs we put on a plate, the other we put aside.) 8. We stir in well and smoothly half a gill of cream, and half a gill of milk with a wooden spoon. 9. We whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, with a knife, and add them at the last moment to the above mixture, stirring it lightly. s. d. ...03 .. o 1 ..03 ..03 .. o o| j o 2§Lessons on Making Puddings.—“Lemon.” 295 10. We take a pie dish, and line the edge of it with puff paste (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No. 1). 11. We pour the mixture into the pie dish. 12. We put the pie dish in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake, till the mixture is set, and of a light brown colour ; it is then ready for serving.296 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 3. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Average cost of “ Apple Charlotte ” (about one pint disk), INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 lbs. of apples . o 6 \ lb. of loaf sugar o 2 The rind of one lemon o 1 Bread and clarified butter o 6\ i 3 h Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make an Apple Charlotte. 1. We take two pounds of good cooking apples, and peel them thinly with a sharp knife. 2. We take a knife and cut them in slices, and take out the core. 3. We put these sliced apples into a stewpan, with sufficient sugar to sweeten them, and one gill of water. 4. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. 5. We take the rind of the lemon, and tie it together with a piece of cotton, and put it in the stewpan with the apples. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon until it boils, and the apples are reduced to about half the quantity. It will take from one hour to one hour and a half. 7. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table, and we must take out the lemon peel. 8. We take a plain round tin mould (about one pint). 9. We cut a slice of the crumb of bread, one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and round to the size of the mould. ILessons on Puddings.—Apple Charlotte. 297 10. We put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan to melt and clarify. 11. We must cut the round of bread into quarters, dip them in the clarified butter, and place them at the bottom of the mould. 12. We now cut slices of the crumb of bread, one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and the depth of the mould in length. 13. We cut these slices into strips an inch wide. 14. We dip these strips into the clarified butter; and place them round inside the mould, allowing them to lie half over each other. 15. We must now pour the apples into the middle of the mould. 16. We cover the apples with a round of bread dipped in the clarified butter. 17. We put the mould into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to about 220°) to bake for three-quarters of an hour. N.B.—The bread should be quite brown and crisp. 18. For serving, we turn it carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish.298 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS, Lesson No. 4. PANCAKES. Average cost of “ Pancakes ” (about eight). INGREDIENTS. d. 3 ozs. of flour 2 eggs h a pint of milk 1 a saltspoonful of salt .. 3 ozs. of lard The juice of half a lemon 2 ozs. of moist sugar.... 1 2 1 1 1 Time required, about twenty minutes. Now we will show you how we make Pancakes. 1. We take three ounces of flour, and put it in a basin. 2. We add half a saltspoonful of salt, and mix it well into the flour. 3. We break two eggs into the flour, and add a dessert- spoonful of milk, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 4. We stir in gradually half a pint of milk, making the mixture very smooth. N.B.—If possible it is better to let this mixture stand before frying it into pancakes. 5. We put a fryingpan on the fire, and put into it a piece of lard the size of a nut, and let it get quite hot, but it must not burn. 6. We then pour into the fryingpan two large table- spoonsful of the battery and let it run thinly all over tne pan. 7. When the pancake has become a light brown on one side, we should shake the pan, and toss the pancake over, to brown the other side the same.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Pancakes. 299 8. We should stand a plate on the hot-plate, or in the front of the fire to heat. 9. When the pancake is fried, we turn it on to this heated plate. 10. We should squeeze about fifteen drops of lemon juice> and sprinkle a teaspoonfid of moist sugar over it. 11. We now roll up the pancake, and place it on the edge of the plate, so as to leave room for the remainder of the pancakes. N.B.—We should fry all the pancakes in this manner, adding each time a piece of lard the size of a nut. 12. For serving we arrange the pancakes on a hot dish* placing one on the top of the other.300 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 5. RICE PUDDING. Average cost of “ Rice Pudding ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. oz. of Carolina rice ; o£ Butter o\ 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar oj 1 pint of milk 2% 3s Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make a plain Rice Pudding. 1. We take apint dish and butter it well inside. 2. We take one ounce and a half of Carolina rice, and wash it well in two or three waters. 3. We put the rice into the buttered dish, and sprinkle over it a tablespoonful of moist sugar. 4. We fill up the dish with milk. N.B.—Nutmeg may be grated, or pounded cinnamon be sifted, over the top of the pudding before it is put in the oven. 5. We put the dish into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door, should rise to about 220°) to bake for two hours. 6. We must watch it occasionally, and as the rice soaks up the milk, more milk should be added (carefully lifting up the skim and pouring the milk in at the side), so as to keep the dish always full. It is then ready for serving.3°i Lessons on Making' Puddings.—Custard. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 6. CUSTARD PUDDING. Average cost of “ Custard Pudding ” (about one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. 4 eggs i pint of milk Grated nutmeg and salt ) i tablespoonful of castor sugar / Butter and flour for paste d. 4 2 °2 2 8: Time reqziired, about thirty-five minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Custard Pudding., 1. We take a pint and a half dish and line the dish throughout with paste (see “Pastry/’ Lesson No. 2). N.B.—The pudding can be made without paste, if preferred ; in which case the dish must be butttered inside. 2. We break four eggs, put the yolks into a basin, with the whites of tivo eggs, and beat them well together (the others we put aside). 3. We add a tablespoonful of castor sugar. 4. We stir one pint of cold milk in with the eggs, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt. 5. We pour this custard into the dish lined with paste. 6. We grate half a teaspoonfid of nutmeg over the top. 7. We put the dish into a moderate oven (the thermo- meter at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake for half an hour. It is then ready for serving.302 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 7. PLUM PUDDING. Average cost of “ Plum Pudding" (about two pounds). INGREDIENTS. INGREDIENTS. s. d. | lb. of beef suet o 5 i lb. of currants o 3 | lb. of sultanas or raisins .... o 3 5 lb. of mixed candied peel, ) viz., citron, lemon & orange J ^ £ lb. of bread crumbs ) . £ lb. of flour j 2 | lb. of moist sugar o 2 1 lemon o 2 4 eggs o 4 1 gill (5 pint) of milk o 05 1 wineglassful of brandy o 6 2 ozs. of almonds o i£ 5 of a teaspoonful of salt .... ) z £ a nutmeg j INGREDIENTS for Brandy or Wine Sauce. 3 eggs 1 gill of cream (or milk bd.).... 1 wineglassful of brandy or 1 sherry j 1 dessertspoonful of sugar .... o 6 1 3$ 2 9s Time required, aboiitfive hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Plum Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We take half a pound of beef suet, put it on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible with a sharp knife. 3. We take half a pound of currants, wash them clean in water, and rub them dry in a cloth. 4. We take up the currants in handfuls, and drop them, a few at a time, on to a plate, so as to find out if there are any stones with them. 5. We take half a pound of sultana raisins, and pick them over. N.B.—If large raisins are used, they should be stoned.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Plum. 303 6. We place a wire sieve over a piece of paper. 7. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. (There should be a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs') 8. We take a quarter of a pound of mixed peel\ citron, lemon, and orange, and cut it up into small pieces. 9. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a kitchen basin, and add to it the chopped suet, and half a teaspoonftd of salt. 10. We rub the suet well into the flour with our hands, N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps. 11. We now add the bread crumbs, the currants and raisins, half a pound of moist sugar, and the pieces of candied peel, and mix all well together. 12. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the rind of it into the basin. 13. We also grate half a nutmeg into the basin, and add two ounces of almonds (previously blanched and chopped up finely). 14. We break four eggs into a basin, and add to them one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk and a wineglassfid of brandy. 15. We stir this into the ingredients in the basin, mixing them all together. 16. We take a strong pudding-cloth, sprinkle about a teaspoonfid of flour over it, and lay it in a basin. 17. We turn the mixture from the basin into the centre of the floured cloth. 18. We tie up the pudding tightly in the cloth with a piece of string. N.B.—If preferred, the pudding might be put into a buttered mould and a cloth tied over the top. 19. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for five hours.304 National Training School for Cookery. 20. For serving, we take the pudding out of the cloth and turn it on to a hot dish. N.B.—Brandy or ivine sauce (see below) can be served with the pudding if liked, either poured over it or served separately in a sauce boat. For Brandy or Wine Sauce. 1. We put three yolks of eggs into a small stewpan. 2. We add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar; one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cream or milk, and a wineglassful of brandy or sherry, and whisk all well together with a whisk. 3. We take a saucepan, fill it half full of hot water, and put it on the fire. 4. We stand the stewpan in the saucepan of hot waterf and whisk the sauce well for about six or eight minutes. N.B.—We must be careful that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. 5. After that time we take the stewpan out of the saucepan. 6. We pour the sauce over the plum pudding (see above) or into a sauce-boat for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.— Vennoise. 305 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 8. VENNOISE PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Vennoise Pudding ” (one pint and a half mould). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 5 oz. of crumb of bread o 2 2 ozs. of candied peel o 2 3 ozs. of castor sugar ) A 1 oz. of lump sugar J 0 3 1 lemon o 2 4 eggs o 4 | a pint of milk o ij 1 gill (5 pint) of cream o 6 3 ozs. of Sultana raisins o 1 wineglassful of sherry o 6 2 Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make a Vennoise Pudding. 1. We take a piece of stale crumb of bread (about five ounces), put it upon a board, and cut it up in the shape of dice. 2. We put the bread into a basin with three ounces of castor sugar and three ounces of sultana raisins. 3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and grate the rind of it into the basin. 4. We chop up two ounces of candied peel and put it into the basin. 5. We pour in a wineglassful of sherry. 6. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 7. We put one ounce of lump sugar into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to brown. 8. When it has become a dark brown liquid we add to u306 National Training School for Cookery. it half a pint of milk, and stir it until the milk is sufficiently coloured. N.B.—We must be careful that the sugar is quite dissolved, that there be no lumps left. 9. We then stand the stewpan on a piece of paper on the table. 10. We put the yolks of four eggs into a basin (the whites we should put aside, as they are not required for present use). 11. We pour the coloured milk into the eggs, stirring well all the time. 12. We stir the milk and eggs into the ingredients in the basin. 13. We also add one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cream. 14. We take a pint and a half mould and butter it inside. 15. We pour the pudding into the mould. 16. We butter a piece of kitchen paper and lay it over the top of the mould. 17. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we place in the mould to steam (the water should only reach half way up the mould, or it will boil over and get into the pudding). 18. We let the pudding steam for one hour and a half. 19. For serving, we take the buttered paper off from the top of the mould, and turn the pudding out carefully on to a hot dish. N.B.—German Sauce (see “ Puddings,” Lesson No. io) can be served with the pudding if liked, either poured round it, or served separately in a sauceboat.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Amber. 307 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 9. AMBER PUDDING. Average cost of an “Amber Pudding” {onepint dish). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 6 apples o 4 3 ozs. of moist sugar o 1 1 lemon o 2 2 ozs. of butter o 3 3 eggs o 3 Putt paste o 4 1 5 Time required, about one hour and a qicarter. Now we will show you how to make an Amber Pudding. 1. We take six large apples, peel them, cut out the core, and cut them up into slices. 2. We put the apples into a stewpan with three ounces of moist sugar, and two ounces of butter. 3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife. 4. We cut the lemon in half and squeeze the juice through a strainer into the stewpan. 5. We also add the lemon peel. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire and let it stew till the apples are quite tender (it will take about three-quarters oj an hour). 7. We place a hair sieve over a large basin. 8. When the apples are sufficiently stewed, we pour them on to the sieve and rub them through into the basin with a wooden spoon. 9. We stir the yolks of three eggs into the basin.308 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We take a pie-dish (about one pint), and line the edge with puff paste (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No. i). N.B.—If we have, no puff paste, short pasts (see “Pastry,” Lesson No. 2) will do. 11. We pour the mixture into the pie-dish, and put it in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) for twenty minutes. 12. We whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. 13. When the pudding is a light brown, we take it out spread the whipped whites of the eggs over the top, and sift about a dessertspoonfid of castor sugar over it. 14. We put the dish back in the oven till the icing is a light brown ; the piidding is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Brown Bread. 309 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 10. BROWN BREAD PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Brown Bread Pudding and German Sauce ” (one pint mould). INGREDIENTS. s. d. A loaf of brown bread o 2 1 lemon o 2 Half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla.. 1 x 3 ozs. of castor sugar ) 2 1 gill (f pint) of milk o of 1 gill (f pint) of cream o 6 4 eggs o 4 1 4t German Sauce. 2 eggs o 2 1 wineglassful of sherry ;.... o 6 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar o of o 8f Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Brown Bread Pudding. 1. We take a stale brown loaf and cut off all the crust. 2. We put a wire sieve over a plate and rub the crumb of bread through it. 3. We put one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. We put five ounces of the bread crumb into a basin, with three ounces of castor sugar. 5. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the rind over the bread crumbs. 6. We also add half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla. 7. We put a stewpan full of warm water on the fire to boil.310 National Training School for Cookery. 8. When the milk boils we pour it over the crumbs. 9. We put one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream into a basin, and whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 10. We add the cream to the other ingredients, and also stir in one at a time the yolks of four eggs (the whites of two of the eggs we put on a plate, the others we put aside). 11. We whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth with a knife, and then stir them lightly into the basin, mixing all the ingredients together. 12. We take apint mould and butter it well inside. 13. We pour the mixture into the mouldy butter a piece of kitchen paper, and place it over the top. 14. When the water in the stewpan is quite boiling, we stand the mould in it to steam the pudding (the water should only reach half-way up the mould, or it will boil over and spoil the pudding). 15. We let it steam for one hour and a quarter. 16. For serving we take off the buttered paper, and turn the pudding on to a hot dish. GERMAN SAUCE. 1. We put the yolks of two eggs into a stewpan with a wineglassful of sherry and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire and mill it with a whisk till it comes to a thick froth. N.B.—We must be careful that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. 3. We pour the sauce round the pudding; it is ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Carrot. 311 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. ii. CARROT PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Carrot Pudding ” (one pint). INGREDIENTS. s. d. | lb. of carrots o i 3 ozs. of bread crumbs o i 2 ozs. of butter o 2 \ a gill of cream o 3 2 eggs o 2 \ a gill of sherry o 3 1 oz. of castor sugar o 1 1 tablespoonful of orange flower water .... o i| Puff paste o 4 1 6| Time required, about three quarters of an hour• Now we will show you how to make a Carrot Pudding. 1. We take a quarter of a pound of carrots, wash them and scrape them clean with a knife. 2. We take a grater, and grate all the red part of the carrots into a basin. 3. We stand a wire sieve over a plate. 4. We take some crumb of bread, and rub it through the sieve, there should be about three ounces of bread crumbs. 5. We put the bread crumbs into the basin with the carrot, we also add one ounce of castor sugar. 6. We put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 7. When the butter is melted, we take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 8. We then stir into it half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of sherry, half a gill of cream, and a tablespoonful of orange flower water.312 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We also add the yolks of two eggs (the whites we put on a plate). 10. We whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth with a knife, and then stir them lightly into the stewpan, mixing all the ingredients together. 11. We then pour the contents of the stewpan into the basin with the carrot and bread crumbs, and mix them well together. 12. We take a pie-dish (about one pint) and line the edge of it with puff paste (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No i). 13. We pour the pudding into the pie-dish, and put it into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for half an hour; it is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Alexandra. 313 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 12. ALEXANDRA PUDDING. Average cost of an “Alexandra Pudding” {one pint and half). INGREDIENTS. x. d. 10 eggs o 10 2 ozs. of castor sugar o i 1 gill (5 pint) of milk o of | a pint of good cream i o 1 teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla o i 2 of Time required, about one hour and twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to make an Alexandra Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put the yolks of ten eggs into a basin (the whites of five of the eggs we put in another basin, the others we put aside). 3. We stir into the yolks of the eggs two ounces of castor sugar. 4. We also add one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk and half a pint of good cream. 5. We whip the whites of the five eggs slightly with a whisk or knife. 6. We take a plain tin mould (about one pint and a half and butter it inside, we cover the bottom with three rounds of buttered paper. 7. We add the whipped whites of the eggs, and a teaspoon- ful of essence of Vanilla to the mixture in the basin, and stir all lightly together. 8. We pour the mixture through a strainer, into the mouldy and tie over it a piece of stiff paper with a string.314 National Training School for Cookery. 9. When the water in the saucepan boils we stand in the mould. (The water should only reach half way up the mould, or it will boil over and spoil the pudding.) 10. We let it simmer gently until the pudding is quite firm. (It will take about one hour and a quarter.) N.B.—It must on no account boil fast. 11. After that time we take the pudding out of the sauce- pan and stand it in ice. 12. For serving, we take off the buttered paper and turn the pudding carefully out on to a dish, and ornament it with red currant jelly according to taste.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Blanc-Mange. 315 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 13. BLANC-MANGE. Average cost of “ Blanc-mange” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. 4 tablespoonsful of cornflour 1 quart of milk 3 ozs. of loaf sugar > 1 inch of the stick of cinnamon or lemon peel j d. 2 4 1 7 Time required, about a quarter of an hour to make, and about three quarters of an hour to get cold. Now we will show you how to make a Blanc-mange. 1. We put one quart of milk into a saucepan with three ounces of loaf sugar, and one inch of the stick of cinnamon or the peel of a quarter of a lemon for flavouring. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 3. We put four tablespoonsful of cornflour into a basin and mix it smoothly with a tablespoonful of cold milk. 4. When the milk in the saucepan is quite boiling, we stir in the cornflour quickly and let it boil for two minutes, stirring continually. N.B.—We must be very careful not to let it get lumpy. 5. We take a quart basin or a mould and rinse it out in cold water. 6. We now take the piece of cinnamon or lemon peel out of the cornflour, and pour the cornflour into the basin,, and stand it aside to cool. 7. When the blanc-mange is quite cold, we turn it out of the basin on to a dish, and it is ready for serving. N.B.—If liked the blanc-mange may be served with jam—or with custard- saucc (see So//fids, Lesson No. i).316 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 14. BOILED BATTER PUDDING. Average cost of a “Boiled Batter Pudding? (about a pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. d. 6 oz. of flour I Salt / 1 3 e&gs 3, t pint of milk 2^ Time required, about two hours andfifteen minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Boiled Batter Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put six ounces of flour into a basin and mix half a saltspoonfid of salt with it. 3. We break three eggs into the flour, and beat them well together. 4. We now add by degrees one pint of milk, stirring very smoothly all the time, until the batter is well mixed. 5. We take a pudding basin and grease it inside with -butter. 6. We stir the batter, and then pour it into the basin. 7. We wring out a pudding cloth in warm and then cold water, and flour it well. 8. We place the cloth over the batter, and tie it on securely with a piece of string, just below the rim of the -basin. We tie the four corners of the cloth over the top. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we put in the pudding, and let it boil for one hour and a half.Lessons on Making Puddings.—-Boiled Batter. 317 10. For serving, we take the basin out of the saucepan,, take off the cloth, and turn the pudding carefully out on a hot dish.318 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 15. CORNFLOUR PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Cornflour Pudding ” (in a cup). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 teaspoonful of cornflour o£ J pint of milk of 4 lumps of sugar o% 1 egg 1 Time required, about three quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Pudding (in a cup, for infants or invalids). 1. We put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put one teaspoonful of cornflour into a sauce- pan. 3. We pour in by degrees a quarter of a pint of milk, mixing it very smoothly. N.B.—We must be careful that it does not get lumpy. 4. We now add to it four lumps of sugar, put the sauce- pan on the fire and stir smoothly until it boils; it will take about ten minutes. 5. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. 6. We break one egg into the saucepan, and beat it up until it is all well mixed. N.B.—If liked, the pudding can be flavoured with essence of vanilla, about five drops should be added. 7. We take a cup (just large enough to hold the pudding), and grease it inside with a piece of butter. 8. We pour the mixture out of the saucepan into the cup.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Cornflour. 319 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we stand in the cup (but we must be careful that the water •only comes halfway up the cup, or it will boil over and get into the cup), and let it steam for twe7ity-five minutes. 10. For serving, we take out the cup, and the pudding may be turned out or not, according to taste.320 National Training School for Cookery,. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 16. BATTER PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Batter Pudding ” (in a cup). INGREDIENTS. d. i egg, i i dessertspoonful of flour i i teacupful of milk Salt Time required, about thirty-five minutes to make and thirty minutes to stand. Now we will show you how to make Batter Pitdding (in a cup for infants or invalids). 1. We put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put a dessertspoonful of flour into a basin with a few grad ns of salt. 3. We break one egg into the basin and mix it well into the flour. 4. We now add by degrees a teacupful of milk, stirring vigorously with a wooden spoon. 5. We let the batter stand for half an hour. 6. After that’time we take a cup (just large enough to hold the batter) and grease it well inside with a piece of butter. 7. We stir the batter} and then pour it into the cup. 8. We take a small cloth, wring it out in boiling water, flour it well, and tie it over the top of the cup, with a piece of string. N.B.—We tie the four corners of the cloth together over the top of the cup. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the cup, and let it boil for three quarters of an hour. 10. For serving, we take the cloth off the cup, and the pudding may be turned out or not, according to taste. Now it is finished.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Cornflour. 321 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 17. CORNFLOUR PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Cornflour Pudding” (about one quart;. INGREDIENTS. 4 tablespoonsful of cornflour i 1 quart of milk 5 3 tablespoonsful of pounded sugar 1 *> 2 eggs 2 1 inch of the stick of cinnamon or a bay leaf ) , Grated nutmeg J 4 9\ Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Pudding. 1. We put four tablespoonsful of cornflour into a basin, and mix it quite smooth with a tablespoonful of cold milk. 2. We put the remainder of the quart of milk into a saucepan with three tablespoonsful of pounded sugar and one inch of the stick of cinnamon or a bay-leaf. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 4. When the milk boils we pour it on to the mixture, stirring it smoothly all the time. 5. We break two eggs into the cornflour, and beat it up lightly. 6. We take a quart pie-dish and grease it inside with butter. 7. We pour the mixture into the pie-dish, and grate half a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the top. 8. We put the dish into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake for half an hour. 9. It will then be ready for serving. x322 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 18. RICE PUDDING. Average cost of “ Rice Pudding” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of rice i| 1 quart of milk 5 2 eggs 2 2 oz. of moist sugar o\ 2 oz. of suet x Grated nutmeg o| ioi Time required, from forty minutes to an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Rice Pudding. 1. We wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, and then put it into a saucepan of cold water, and put it on the fire till it boils and swells. 2. We break two eggs into a basin. 3. We add to them two ounces of moist sugar and one quart of milk, and stir them together. 4. We put two ounces of suet on a board, cut away all the skin, and shred it as finely as possible. 5. We take a quart dish, and grease it inside with clarified dripping or butter. 6. We drain off the rice on a colander as dry as possible, and lay it in the greased dish. 7. We pour the mixture of milk and eggs over the rice, and sprinkle the shredded suet over the top. 8. We take a grater, and grate half a teaspoonful of nut7neg over the top. 9. We put the dish into an oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake for, from forty minutes to an hour. 10. After that time it is ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Curate s. 323 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 19. CURATE'S PUDDING. Average cost of “ Citrates Pudding” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of potatoes 3 eS:Ss 1 pint of milk Sugar d. 1 Time required, about one hour. 7 Now we will show you how to make a Curates or Sweet Potato Pudding. 1. We take one pound of potatoes, wash them, and boil them as described (see “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 1). N.B.—Any remains of cold boiled potatoes could be used instead of fresh ones. 2. We rub these boiled potatoes through a colander into a basin with a wooden spoon. 3. We break three eggs into another basin, and stir into them one pint of milk. 4. We stir the milk and eggs smoothly into the potatoes, and sweeten it with sugar according to taste. 5. We take a quart pie dish, grease it inside, and pour the mixture into it. 6. We put the pie dish in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake for half an hour; it will then be ready for serving.324 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 20. BREAD PUDDING. Average cost of “ Bread Pudding” (one pint and a half). ingredients. 1 lb. of scraps of bread 13 1 pint of milk 2 j 2 eggs 2 2 tablespoonsful of moist sugar o\ 4 oz. of raisins or currants 1 2 oz. of suet ij _8| Time required, three quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Bread Pudding. 1. We put one pound of scraps of bread into a basin, with plenty of cold water to spak. N.B.—Any scraps of bread, either crumb or crust, however stale, so long as they are not mouldy or burnt, can be used for this pudding. 2. We put one quart of milk into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We put into the milk a piece of butter the size of a nut, to prevent it from burning. 4. We take the bread out of the basin and squeeze out all the water. 5. We empty the water out of the basin, and put back the bread. 6. When the milk boils we pour it over the bready and let the bread soak until it is soft. 7. We break two eggs into a small basin, add to them two tablespoonsful of moist sugary and beat them lightly together. 8. We take four ounces of large raisins and stone them, or, if currants are preferred, we should wash them, dry them in a cloth, and pick them over to see there are no stones with them.then be ready for serving. Lessons on Making Puddings.—Bread Pudding. 325 9. We take tzvo ounces of suet, put it on a board, cut away the skin, and chop it up finely. 10. We now beat the bread up with a fork as smooth as possible. 11. We put in the raisins or currants, the chopped suet, the eggs, and sugar, and mix them all well together. 12. We take a pint and a half pie dish or tin, grease it well inside, and pour in the mixture. 13. We put it in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake, for half an hour ; it will326 National Training School for Cookery, PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 21. TREACLE PUDDING. Average cost of “ Treacle Pudding ” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of flour 5 lb. of suet 2 1 teaspoonful of baking powder ) Salt \ oi 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger ) About a 5 lb. of treacle i About 5 of a pint of milk o| 1 egg 1“ Time required, two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Treacle Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut away the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 3. We put one pound of flour into a basin with a little salt, and one teaspoonfid of baking powder. 4. We add the chopped suet and one teaspoonfid of ground ginger, and mix all well together with a spoon. 5. We put a quarter of a pound of treacle into a basin with a quarter of a pint of milk and one egg, and mix them together. N.B.—If liked, rather more treacle can be added. - . 6. We stir this into the mixture in the basin, and add more milk if required to. make the pudding moist. N.B.—When the pudding is mixed it should be rather stiff. 7. We take a quart basin, grease it well inside, and pour the mixture into it. N.B.—We should be careful that the basin is full, for if not quite full the water will get into it and spoil the pudding.Lessons on Making Puddings.— Treacle. 327 8. We sprinkle some flour over the top of the puddingy put a cloth over it, and tie it tightly down with a piece of string, just below the rim of the basin, and tie the corners of the cloth together. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the puddingy and let it boil for two hours. 10. For serving, we take the pudding out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, place a hot dish over the puddingy and turn it carefully out of the basin.328 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 22. PLUM PUDDING. Average cost of “ Plum Pudding” (about INGREDIENTS, 5 oz. of bread crumbs 7 oz. of dour 3 lb. of suet 5 lb. of raisins £ lb. of currants 2 oz. of moist sugar 1 teaspoonful of baking powder 2 eggs 1 gill (j pint) of milk Time required, two and a half hours. Now we will show you how to make a Plum Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We stand a grater on a piece of paper, and grate some bread crumbs ; there should be five ounces. 3. We take a quarter of a pound of suet and put it on a board. 4. We take a knife, cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 5. We should sprinkle flour over the suet to prevent it sticking to the board or knife. 6. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, wash them well in cold water, and rub them dry in a cloth. 7. We take up the currants in handsful and drop them, a few at a time, on to a plate, so as to find out if there are any stones mixed with the currants. 8. We take a quarter of a pound of large raisins and stone them. a pound). 01 °i 2 o*Lessons on Making Puddings.—Plum Pudding. 329 9. We put seven ounces of flour into a basin, and add to it the chopped suet, quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 10. We rub the suet well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps. 11. We now add the bread crumbs, the currants and raisins, two ounces of moist sugar, and mix all well with a wooden spoon. N.B.—If preferred, treacle may be used instead of sugar. 12. We break two eggs into a basin, add to them one gill (a quarter of a pint) of milk and beat them up. 13. We now stir the milk and eggs into the pudding and mix all well together. 14. We take a cloth, wring it out of hot water, flour it, and lay it over a quart basin. N.B.—We should be careful that the cloth is strong and that there are no holes in it. 15. We turn the mixture from the basin into the centre of the floured cloth. 16. We hold up the four corners of the cloth and tie up the pudding tightly with a piece of string. 17. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for two hours. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 18. For serving, we take the pudding out of the cloth and turn it on to a hot dish.33° National Training School for Cookery. 8. After that time we put the apples into the saucepan. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 23. TAPIOCA AND APPLES. Average cost of " Stewea Tapioca and Apples.” INGREDIENTS. d. 2 tablespoonsful of Tapioca o| 6 apples 4 4 cloves and the peel and juice of half a lemon i 3 tablespoonsful of sugar oj 6 Time required {after the tapioca has soaked twelve hours), about three- quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a stew of Tapioca and Apples. 1. We put two tablespoonsful of tapioca into a basin with one pint of water, and let it soak for twelve hours. N.B.—This should be done over-night. 2. We take six apples, peel, quarter, and core them. 3. We put three tablespoonsfid of sugar into a saucepan with half a pint of cold water, put it over the fire and stir, until it has reduced and become a thick syrup. 4. We take half a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel it very thinly with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful not to cut any of the white, as it is very bitter. 5. We put the soaked tapioca into a large saucepan, add the syrup, the lemon peel, and four cloves. 6. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir it well until it boils. N.B.—We should be careful not to let any stick to the bottom. 7. We let it boil for ten minutes, until the tapioca has become clear.Lessons on Puddings.—Tapioca and Apples. 331 arranging them at the bottom, so that they are covered with the tapioca. 9. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the apples stew gently for from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to their size. 10. We must not let them boil, or they will break. 11. We now squeeze the juice of the half lemon over the applesy and stir carefully. 12. When they are stewed quite tender, we take them out of the saucepan and put them on a dish. 13. We take the lemon peel and the cloves out of the tapioca saucef and colour the sauce (if liked) by adding half a teaspoonful of cochineal. 14. We now pour the tapioca sauce over the apples. It is then ready for serving.332 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS Lesson No. 24. BOILED LEMON PUDDING. Average cost of a “Boiled Lemon Pudding" (in about one pint basin) INGREDIENTS. d. % lb. of bread crumbs 2 \ lb. of suet 2I 2 oz. of flour Oj j lb. of moist sugar 1 2 lemons 3 2 eggs 2 2 tablespoonsful of milk o£ 11k Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make a Lemon Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan full of water on the fire to boil. 2. We put a quarter of a pound of suet on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop it up finely. 3. We put two ounces of flour in a basin, and add to it the chopped suet, and rub the suet well into the four with our fingers. N.B.—We must be careful not to leave any lumps. 4. We place a wire sieve over a plate; we take half a pound of the crumb of bread, and rub it through the sieve, we add these bread crumbs to theflour and suet; we also add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar. 5. We take two lemons, wipe them clean with a cloth, and grate the rinds of them into the basin ; we then cut the lemons in half, and squeeze in the juice of both the lemons; we must be careful not to let the pips fall into the basin : we mix all these ingredients well together. 6. We break two eggs into a basin ; and add to them two tablespoonsful of milk and beat them together.Lessons on Puddings.—Boiled Lemon Ptedding. 333, 7. We now pour the eggs and milk on to the other ingredients, and mix them well together. 8. We take a small pint basin, and butter it well inside, we pour the mixture into the basin ; we take a clean cloth, wring it out in hot, and then in cold water, sprinkle a little flour over it, and tie it over the top of the basin, with a piece of string. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil, for one hour and a half. 10. For serving we take the pudding out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, and turn the pudding carefully out on to a hot dish.334 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 25. SEMOLINA PUDDING. Average cost of “ Semolina Puddingy INGREDIENTS. d. | pint milk ij 1 tablespoonful semolina o§ 1 egg 1 1 dessertspoonful moist sugar ) . Butter and nutmeg j 2 ZK Time required, alout twenty-five minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Semolina Pudding\ 1. We put half a pint of milk and one tablespoonful of semolina into a saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir occasionally until it boils and swells, then we set it by the side of the fire. 3. We break one egg into a basin and add to it a dessert- spoonful of moist sugar and beat them lightly together with a fork. 4. We take a three-quarters of a pint pie-dish and grease it inside with a piece of butter. 5. When the semolina is sufficiently cool, we stir in lightly the sweetened egg. 6. We pour this mixture into the pie-dish. 7. We take a grater and a nutmeg and grate a quarter of a teaspoonful over the mixture. 8. We put the dish into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake for a quarter of an hour, and it is ready for serving. N.B. Puddings can be made in the same way with sago, tapioca, or rice.Lessons on Puddings.—Baked Batter. 335 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 26. BAKED BATTER PUDDING WITH FRUIT. Average cost of “ Batter and Fruit Pudding” {onepint and a half). INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of flour, Salt | pint milk . 2 eggs 2 5 lb. fruit oj \ oz. butter o| Sugar . Oj Si Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Batter Pudding with fruit in it. 1. We take a quarter of a pound of floitr and put it in a basin. 2. We add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. 3. We stir in gradually half a pint of milk. 4. When it has become sufficiently liquid, we should beat it with a spoon instead of stirring it, as that will make it lighter. 5. We break an egg into a cup, and then add it to the batter, beating it up lightly all the time, until it is thoroughly mixed. 6. We then break a second egg into the cup and add it to the batter, mixing it thoroughly as before. N.B.—Eggs should always be broken separately into a cup to see if they are good before cooking. The more the batter is beaten the lighter it becomes. 7. We take a pint and a half pie-dish and grease it well inside with butter. 8. We pour the batter into the pie-dish.336 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We take a quarter of a pound of damsons (or any other fruit), and wipe them with a cloth to be sure that they are quite clean. 10. We sprinkle the fruit into the batter, and put two or three bits of butter on the top to prevent its being dry. N.B.—If preferred the fruit can be omitted. 11. We put the pie-dish into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 220°) to bake for half an hour. 12. After that time we take the pie-dish out of the oven and sprinkle some sugar over the top, and it is ready for serving. N.B.—Sugar should, of course, be eaten with the batter pudding. N.B.—If sugar were added to the batter before it was baked it would make it heavy.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Cold Cabinet. 337 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 27. COLD CABINET PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Cold Cabinet Plidding” (one pint mould). INGREDIENTS. 6 sponge finger biscuits s. d. 3 2 oz. ratafias 2 2 pint of milk i; \ oz. of best gelatine I: The yolks of 4 eggs 4 2 oz. of dried cherries Two or three pieces of angelica A | a gill of cream 3 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar ... 1 ... i 0 2 1 6j Time required to make, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cold Cabinet Pudding. 1. We take a pint mould and ornament the bottom of it (according to taste) with the dried cherriesy and pieces of angelica. 2. We split the sponge-biscuits in half, and line the inside of the tin with them and the ratafias in the mould. N.B.—We must place the biscuits only round the sides of the tin (not over the bottom), arranging them alternately back and front next the tin. 3. We break four eggs, put the yolks in a basin (the whites we put aside, as they are not required for present use), and beat them well with a wooden spoon. 4. We stir half a pint of milk into the eggs, and pour the mixture into a jug. 5. We take a saucepan, fill it half full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil, when the water boils we move the saucepan to the side of the fire.338 National Training Sc/too l for Cookery. 6. We stand the jug in the saucepan, and stir the custard very smoothly until it thickens and becomes the substance of cream, but it must not boil or it will curdle. 7. We put half an ounce of gelatine in a small stewpan or gallipot, with a tablespoonful of water, and stand it near the fire to melt. 8. When the custard is sufficiently thick, we take the jug out of the saucepan and stand it aside to cool. N.B.—We should place a piece of paper over the mouth of the jug to pre- vent the dust getting in. 9. We stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 10. We pour the melted gelatine through a strainer into the custard. 11. We also add half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of cream, a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and stable- spoonful of castor sugar. 12. We pour it all on the cakes in the mould. 13. We stand the mould in a cold place to set; in summer time it should be placed on ice. 14. When the pudding is quite cold and set, we turn it out carefully on to a dish, and it is ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Suet Pudding. 339 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 28. SUET PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Suet Pudding ” (about two pounds). INGREDIENTS. d. 2 lb. of suet 4 1 lb. of flour 2.^ 1 teaspoonful of baking powder o| Time required, about one hour and three-quarters. Now we will show you how to make a Suet Plidding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We take half a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop the suet up as finely as possible with a sharp knife. 3. We put one pound of flour into a basin, with one tea- spoonfid of baking powder. 4. We add the chopped suet and rub it well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We must be careful not to have any lumps. 5. We now add enough cold water to mix it into a stiff paste. 6. We take a strong pudding cloth, wring it out in boiling water, and sprinkle flour over it. 7. We turn the paste out on to the cloth, hold up the ends of the cloth, and tie it tightly round the pudding with a piece of string, leaving room for the pudding to swell. 8. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil gently for one hour and a half. N.B.—We should keep a kettle of boiling water and fill up the saucepan as the water in it boils away. 9. For serving, we take the pudding out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, and turn it on to a hot dish. N.B.—This pudding can be eaten with meat, or it can be eaten with sugar, jam, or treacle.34 o National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 29. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Yorkshire Pudding ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 8 oz. of flour 1^ 1 pint of milk 2£ Salt ( 2 2 eggs j T Time required, one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Yorkshire Pudding. 1. We put eight ounces of flour into a basin, and mix into it half a salt-spoonful of salt. 2. We break two eggs into the flour and stir it well. 3. We now add by degrees a pint of milk, beating all the time with a wooden spoon to make the batter as smooth and as light as possible. 4. We take a pudding tin (about a pint), place it under the meat that is roasting in front of the fire, to catch some dripping to grease the tin. 5. We then pour the batter into the tin and let it cook under the meat for half an hour, or put it in the oven to bake for twenty minutes. 6. We must watch it, and turn the tin, so that the pudding does not get burnt. N.B.—A commoner and more substantial Yorkshire pudding can be made in the same way as above, only with 6 oz. of flour, 1 egg, 1 pint of milk, and 1 tdblespooiiful of chopped suet sprinkled over the batter when it is poured into the tin. 7. When the pudding is sufficiently cooked, we turn it carefully out of the tin on to a hot dish, and it is then ready for serving with the roast meat.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Fig Pudding. 3 4 e 8. We break two eggs into a basin, and add two table- PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 30. FIG PUDDING. Average cost of u Fig Pudding'" (about I pound). INGREDIENTS. \ lb of dried figs \ lb of moist sugar 6 oz. of suet | lb. of bread crumbs | £ lb. of flour i 2 eggs • 2 tablespoonsful of milk Salt s. d. o 6 o 1 o 2^ o 2 o of 1 4 Time required, about three hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Fig Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan of warm water on the fire to hoil. 2. We put six ounces of suet on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 3. We take half a pound of dried figs} and chop them up finely with a sharp knife. 4. We place a wire sieve on the board, take some crumb of bread and rub it through, there should be a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs. 5. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin, and .add to it the chopped suet, and half a salt spoonful of salt. 6. We rub the suet well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps. 7. We now add the bread crumbs, the figs, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar; and about a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and mix them all well together.342 National Training School for Cookery. spoonsful of milk, we stir this into the ingredients in the basin, and mix all well together. 9. We take a pudding cloth, lay it in a basin, and sprinkle about a teaspoonful of flour over it. 10. We turn the mixture into the centre of the floured cloth, and tie it up in the cloth, with a piece of string. N.B.—If preferred, the pudding could be put into a bzittered mould or basin and a cloth tied over the top, but it is better to boil it in a cloth. 11. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for two hours and a half N.B.—If the pudding is boiled in a mould or basin, we must allow at least three hours for boiling. 12. For serving we take the pudding out of the cloth, and turn it on to a hot dish. N.B.—This pudding can be served with “Melted Butter Sauce” (see “Sauces,” Lesson No. 7.)Lessons on Making Puddings.—Marmalade. 343 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 31. MARMALADE PUDDING. Average cost of a “Marmalade Pudding ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. 3 tablespoonsful of marmalade .... 2 oz. of moist sugar 1 oz. of candied peel 3 oz. of flour 3 oz. of bread crumbs 5 lb of suet 1 lemon Salt 1 egg s. d. o 4i o Oj O I O 2j O 2.\ 0 4 o 1 Time required, about three hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Marmalade Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put a quarter of a pound of suet, on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop it up finely with a knife. 3. We place a wire sieve on a plate, take some crumb of bread, and rub it through the sieve, there should be three ounces of bread crumbs. 4. We put three ounces of flour in a basin, add to it a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and the chopped suet, and rub them together with our fingers. N.B.—We must be careful there are no lumps. 5. We now add the bread crumbs and two ounces of moist sugar, take a lemon, wipe it clean, and grate the rind into the basin. We also add one ounce of candied peel, cut in small pieces, and three tablespoonsfid of marmalade, and mix them all well together. 6. We cut the lemon in half, and squeeze the juice of it into the basin over the other ingredients, we also add one egg, and mix it all well together.344 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We take about a pint basin, butter it inside, and turn the mixture into it, but the basin must be quite full. 8. We take a small pudding cloth, wring it out in warm water, and then in cold water, and sprinkle some flour over it, we put this cloth over the top of the basin, and tie it on tightly with a piece of string under the rim of the basin ; we tie the four corners of the cloth together over the top of the pudding. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding and let it boil for three hours. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. N.B.—We should keep a kettle of water boiling on the fire, and fill up the saucepan, as the water in it boils away. 10. For serving we take the basin out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, and turn the pudding carefully out of the basin on to a hot dish.Lessons on Puddings.—Ginger Pudding. 345 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 32. GINGER PUDDING. Average cost of “ Ginger Pudding” (in about a pint basin). INGREDIENTS. a. | lb. of flour 1 1 lb. of suet 2i | lb. of moist sugar 2 2 large teaspoonsful of grated ginger I xi | oz. of butter ) 3 7 Time required, about six hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make a Ginger Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan of water on the fire to boil. 2. We put a quarter of a pound of suet on a board, cut away the skin and chop it up very finely with a sharp knife. 3. We put half a pound of four into a basin, add the chopped suet, and rub it well into the flour with our fingers. N.B.—We must be careful not to leave any lumps. 4. We take some ginger and a grater, and grate tzvo large teaspoonsful of sugar. 5. We now add the grated ginger and half a pound of moist sugar to the basin, and mix all well together. 6. We take a small basin (about I pint) butter it well inside, and turn the dry mixture into the basin. 7. We take a pudding cloth, wring it out in hot water, and then in cold, and sprinkle some flour over it. 8. We place the floured cloth over the basin, and tie it on with string just below the rim. we tie the ends of the cloth together. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil, for at least six hours. 10. For serving we take out the basin, take off the cloth, and turn the pudding carefully out on to a hot dish. N.B.—If liked, melted butter sauce (see “ Sauces," Lesson No. 7) may be served with the pudding.346 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 33. BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. Average cost of “ Brectd-and-Butter Pudding” (in one-pint dish). INGREDIENTS. d. 6 thin slices of bread and butter 4 | oz. of clarified dripping 1 1 oz. of currants • • • • • > of Nutmeg, and 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar J 2 eggs 2 z pint of milk 2§ 9i Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Bread-and-Buttcr Pudding. 1. We butter, and cut six thin slices of bread. 2. We grease the inside of a pint pie dish, with half an ounce of clarified dripping. 3. We take one ounce of currants, wash them well, dry them in a clean cloth, and pick them over. 4. We lay the slices of bread and butter in the pie dish, and sprinkle the currants between each slice of bread and butter. N.B.—One ounce of candied peel, chopped up fine, might be sprinkled in as well, if liked. 5. We break two eggs into a cup, and beat them up well, we add to them a tablespoonful of moist sugar and a pint of milk, and stir them well together. 6. We pour this custard over the bread and butter in the pie dish, take a grater and a nutmeg, and grate about half a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the top; and then let the pudding soak, for half an hour before baking. 7. After that time we put the pudding into a moderate oven (the thermometer at the oven door should mark 220° Fahrenheit), to bake for about half an hour. 8. The pudding can be served in the dish, or turned out on to a hot flat dish, and then sprinkled with half a teaspoonful of castor sugar.Lessons on Puddings—Apple Amber Pudding. 347 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 34. APPLE AMBER PUDDING. Average cost of an “Apple Amber Pudding” (in about a pint mouldi) INGREDIENTS. 6 oz. of bread crumbs 2 oz. of flour 4 oz. of suet | lb. of apples 2 oz. of castor sugar I lemon Nutmeg 3 eggs f oz. of butter J. d. c if o of o 2f o 3" o if 1 of Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make an Apple Amber- Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put two ounces of flour into a basin. 3. We put four ounces of suet on a board, cut away the skin, and chop it up finely ; we add the chopped suet to the flour, and rub them together with our fingers. N.B.—We must be careful not to leave any lumps. 4. We place a wire sieve over a board, take six ounces of the crumb of bread, and rub it through the sieve. 5. We take about three quarters of a pound of apples, peel them with a sharp knife, cut out the core, and chop up the apples ; there should be half a pound of chopped apples. 6. We now add the bread crumbs and two ounces of castor sugar to the flour and suet and mix them together, we alos. add the chopped apples ; we take a lemon, wipe it clean, and348 National Training School for Cookery. grate the rind of it into the basin, we also grate in about a quarter of a teaspoonful of nutmeg. 7. We take three eggs, break them one by one, into another basin, and then add them to the other ingredients, and mix them all well together. 8. We take about a pint mould, or basin, butter it well inside, with half an ounce of butter, and then pour in the mixture. 9. We take a clean cloth, wring it out in hot, and then cold water, sprinkle a little flour over it, and place it over the top of the mould, and tie it on with string. 10. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for two hours and a half to three hours. 11. For serving, we take out the pudding, take off the cloth, and carefully turn the pudding out of the mould, on to a hot dish.Lessons on Puddings.—Baked Plum Pudding. 349 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 35. BAKED PLUM PUDDING. Average cost for making a “ Baked Plum Pudding” (2 lbs). INGREDIENTS. J lb. of suet § lb. of flour J lb. of large raisins 5 lb. of currants 2 oz. of candied peel 2 oz. of moist sugar 1 teaspoonful of baking powder., J of a teaspoonful of mixed spice 1 egg § pint of milk d. .. 2| .. 2 .. x\ .. I± .. I .. o| } * .. I .. I Time required about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Baked Plum- Pudding. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of suet on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop it up as finely as possible with a sharp knife. N.B.—We should sprinkle a little flour over the suet to prevent it sticking to the knife. 2. We put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, and mix into it a teaspoonfid of baking powder. 3. We now add the chopped suet, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 4. We take a quarter of a pound of large raisins and stone them. 5. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, wash them, and dry them in a cloth, and pick them over to see there are no stones mixed with them. 6. We take two ounces of mixed candied peel, and cut it up in small pieces on a board.350 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We now add all these ingredients to the flour in the basin. 8. We also add two ounces of moist sugar, and sprinkle over a quarter of a teaspoonfid of mixed spice. 9. We break i egg into a cup, and beat it up lightly with a gill of milk (a gill is a quarter of a pint). 10. We pour the egg and milk into the ingredients in the basin, and mix them all well together into a stiff paste. 11. If necessary, we can add another gill of milk. (The mixture should be so stiff that a spoon can stand up in it). 12. We take a ij pint tin or a dish, and grease it inside with a little clarified dripping. 13. We turn the mixture into the tin and put it into a moderate oven to bake for one hour. 14. After that time we take it out of the oven, and it is ready for serving.Lessons on Puddings.—Norfolk Dumplings. 351 NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. Average cost of “ Norfolk Dumplings ” (about ten). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of patent flour \ Water j 3 3 Time required, about half-an-hour. Now we will show you how to make Norfolk Dumplings. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put one pound of patent flour into a basin. 3. We add to it enough cold water to make it into a smooth dough;—it must not be too stiff. 4. We form this dough into round balls about the size of a large egg. N.B.—This quantity will make about ten dumplings. 5. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the dumplings, and let them boil for twenty minutes. 6. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, and they are then ready for serving.352 National Training School for Cookery. JELLIES. Lesson No. i. WINE JELLY. Average cost of “ Wine Jelly from Calfs Feet ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 calf’s feet i 6 3 lemons o 4^ 2 eggs o 2 4 oz. of loaf sugar 1 1 inch of the stick of cinnamon > o of 4 cloves ) 1 wine-glass of sherry o 6 Half a wine-glass of brandy o 3 2 io| Time required : the jelly stock should be made the day before required for use ; to finish making it, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make about one quart of Wine Jelly from Calfs Feet. 1. We take two calfs feet and put them on a board. 2. We chop each foot in four pieces with a chopper. 3. We put these pieces in a basin of clean cold water and wash them well. 4. We take them out of the basin and put them in a stew-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. N.B.—This is to blanch them. 5. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 6. When the water boils we take the stew-pan and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 7. We take the pieces of the feet out of the stew-pan with a fork and put them in a basin of cold water and wash them well. 8. We empty the water out of the stew-pan. 9. We wash the stew-pan well. f 10. We lake the pieces of the feet out of the basin and put them in the stew-pan with five pints of cold water. N.B.—This stock will be reduced to about ojie pint and a half when it is sufficiently boiled.Lessons on Making Jellies.— Wine Jelly. 353 11. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 12. We must watch it and skim it often with a skimming spoon. 13. We must let it boil very gently for five hours. 14. After that time we strain off the liquor through a hair sieve into a basin. 15. We must put this basin in a cool place for some hours, until the stock is perfectly cold and is in a jelly. 16. We now take this basin of jelly stock and skim off all the fat carefully with a spoon. 17. We take a clean cloth and put it in hot water. 18. We take this damp cloth and dab it over the jelly stock, so as to remove every particle of grease. 19. We take a clean dry cloth and rub lightly over the jelly stock to dry it. 20. We take three lemons, wipe them clean in a cloth, and peel them very thinly with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful, in peeling the lemons, not to cut any of the white skin, as it would make the jelly bitter. 21. We put the lemon peel into a stew-pan. 22. We squeeze the juice of the two lemons through a strainer into the stew-pan. 23. We take two eggs and put the yolks in one basin, and the whites in another. 24. We whip the whites of the eggs slightly, but not very stiff. 25. We put the whipped white of egg into the stew-pan and the crushed egg shell. 26. We put in also four ounces of loaf sugar, one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and four cloves. 27. We whip all these together with a whisk. 28. We now add the jelly stock. 29. We put the stew-pan on the fire, and whisk well till it boils. 30. We now put the lid on the stew-pan, and stand it by the side of the fire for twenty minutes to form a crust.354 National Trailing School for Cookery. 31. We place the jelly bag stand in front of the fire, and hang the jelly bag in it, we must put a basin on the stand underneath the jelly bag. N.B.—We must be sure that the jelly lag is quite clean. 32. We take a jug of warm water, and pour it through the jelly bag. 33. We must do this four or five times, always using warm water until the bag is quite warm. 34. We must look at the jelly in the stew-pan, and when the crust is formed, it is ready to be strained. N.B.—We must be sure that there is no water left in the bag, before passing the jelly through, and the basin in the stand should be quite dry. N.B.—The pouring of the jelly into the bag forces the water (the few drops that remain) first out into the basin ; these first few drops should be thrown away and a clean basin put in its place immediately. 35. We now take the stew-pan off the fire, and pour the jelly carefully into the bag to pass into the basin. 36. We repeat this two or three times, until the jelly runs through quite clear. N.B.—We must be careful in pouring the jelly through the bag, that we do not disturb the sediment at the bottom of the bag, which will serve as a filter. 37. Weadda wineglassful ofsherry, an d half a wineglassfiu of brandy, or any other wine or liqueur according to taste. 38. We take a quart mould’ scald it with boiling water, and then rinse it in cold water. 39. We place the mould in ice. N.B.—We must be careful that the mould stands quite straight and firm. 40. We pour in enough of the jelly just to cover the bottom of the mould. 41. When this jelly has set slightly, we can garnish the mould with grapes, strawberries, &c., according to taste. 42. We then pour the remainder of the jelly into the mould, and let it stand in the ice, until it is firmly set. 43. When the jelly is required for use, we dip the mould into a basin of hot water for about a second. 44. We shake the mould to loosen the jelly, place a dish over the top of the mould, and turn the jelly carefully out, so as not to break it. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Aspic Jelly. 355 JELLIES. Lesson No. 2. ASPIC JELLY. Average cost of “ Savoury or Aspic Jelly ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. 2 calf’s feet 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal Salt 30 peppercorns 2 blades of mace 1 clove of garlic „ 2 shalots / x sprig of thyme Two or three sprigs of parsley 1 onion, stuck with four cloves J 1 leek I a head of celery 2 carrots | 1 turnip ) 1 sprig of tarragon x sprig of chervil 2 bay leaves The rind of i lemon The juice of 3 lemons The whites of 2 eggs 1 lb. of lean veal x gill of chablis or sherry 2 tablespoonsful of French vinegar x. d. 1 6 1 4 O 2\ o o£ o 2 O l£ o 6 o 2 o 10 o 6 o 2 5 6i Time required [the jelly stock should be made the day before) to finish making it, if not decorated, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make one quart of Savoury or Aspic Jelly. 1. We take two calf's feet and put them on a board. 2. We chop the feet in eight pieces with a chopper. 3. We put these pieces in a basin of clean cold water and wash them well. 4. We take them out of the basin and put them in a stew-pan, with sufficient cold water to cover them. 5. W’e put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. N.B.—This is to blanch them. Z 2356 National Training School for Cookery. 6. When the water boils, we take the stew-pan off, and stand it on a piece of paper, on the table. 7. We take the pieces of feet out of the stew-pan with a fork, put them in a basin of cold water, and wash them well. 8. We empty the water out of the stew-pan. 9. We wash the stew-pan well. 10. We take the pieces of feet out of the basin, and put them back into the stew-pan. 11. We take two pounds of knuckle of vecil, and put it on a board. 12. We take a sharp knife, and cut off the meat from the bone. 13. We put the meat and the bone into the stew-pan, with the feet. 14. We pour in five pints of water, put the stew-pan on the fire, and just bring it to the boil. 15. We must watch it, and skim it with a spoon. 16. We now add half a teaspoon fid of salt, thirty pepper- corns, two blades of mace, one clove of garlic, two shalots, one sprig of thyme, and two or three sprigs of parsley. 17. We take an onion, peel it, and stick four cloves in it. 18. We take one leek, and half a head of celery, and wash them in cold water. 19. We take two carrots, wash them, and scrape them clean. 20. We take a turnip, wash it and peel it. 21. We put all these vegetables into the stew-pan. 22. We also add one sprig of tarragon, one sprig of chervil, and two bay leaves. 23. We let all these boil gently for five hours. 24. After that time, we strain off the liquor, through a hair sieve into a basin. 25. We must put this basin into a cool place, for some hours until the stock is perfectly cold, and in a jelly.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Aspic Jelly. 357 26. We now take the basin of jelly, and skim off all the fat carefully with a spoon. 27. We take a clean cloth and put it in hot water. 28. We take this damp cloth, and dab it over the jelly stock, so as to remove every particle of grease. 23. We take a clean dry cloth, and rub lightly over the jelly stock, to dry it. 30. We take one lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly, with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful in peeling the lemon not to cut any of the pith* as it would make Coe. jelly bitter. 31. We put the lemon peel into a stew-pan. 32. We squeeze the juice of three lemons, through a strainer, into the stew-pan. 33. We whip the whites of two eggs slightly, but not very stiff. 34. We put the whipped whites of the eggs into the stew- pan, also the egg shells. 35. We take one pound of lean veal, put it on a board, -and chop it up finely. 36. We put this chopped veal in the stew-pan. 37. We pour in one gill of chablis or sherry, and two tablespoonsful of French vinegar. 38. We add salt and pepper to taste, and whip altogether with a whisk. 39. We put in the jelly stock. 40. We put the stew-pan on the fire, and whisk well until it boils. 41. We now take a large spoon and skim it carefully if necessary. 42. We put the stew-pan by the side of the fire, and let it stand for half an hour to form a crust. 43. We take a clean soup cloth, or a jelly bag, and fix it on the stand. 44. We take a large basin, and place it below the cloth.358 National Training School for Cookery. 45. We take the stew-pan off the fire, and pour the con- tents into the cloth, and let it all pass into the basin. N.B.—The chopped veal acts as a filter to the jelly. 46. After the jelly has all passed through, we remove the basin, and put a clean one in its place. 47. We take a soup ladle, and pour a ladle-ful of the jelly, at a time, over the meat in the cloth, and let it pass for the second time, very slowly, into the basin. N.B.—We must be careful not to disturb the deposit of chopped veal, which settles at the bottom of the cloth. 48. If a border mould of Aspic jelly be required, we take the mould, scald it with boiling water, and then rinse it in cold water. N.B.—If the Aspic jelly is only required for garnishing cold meats, &c., we stand the basin of j elly on ice, or in a cool place, until it be firmly set; we can then cut the jelly into fancy shapes, or chop it up finely with a knife. 49. We place the mould in ice. N.B.—We must be careful that the mould stands quite straight and firm. 50. We pour in enough of the jelly just to cover the bottom of the mould. 51. When this jelly has slightly set, we can garnish the mould with fish or vegetables, &c., according to taste, or with what it is to be served. 52. We then pour the remainder of the jelly into the mould, and let it stand in the ice until it is firmly set. 53. When the jelly is required for use, we dip the mould into a basin of hot water for about a second. 54. We shake the mould to loosen the jelly, and place a dish over the top of the mould, and turn the jelly carefully out, so as not to break it. It is then ready for serving. N.B.—The centre of the mould can be filled with a salad of mixed vegetables. (See No. 13 in Entries, Lesson No. 5.) N.B.—A less expensive recipe for Aspic Jelly will be found in the Appendix.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Iceland Moss. 359 JELLIES. Lesson No. 3. ICELAND MOSS. Average cost of “ Water Jelly or Milk Jelly made with Iceland Moss ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. For Water Icily. d. 1 oz. of Iceland Moss .... ) 1 quart of water j 2 tablespoonsful of pounded loaf sugar J (To be eaten with wine or milk.) Time required {after the Iceland Moss about one hour ; for “ A For Milk Jelly. d. 1 oz. of Iceland Moss i x quart of milk 5 2 tablespoonsful of pounded loaf sugar 1 7 soaked all night), for “ Water Jelly," Jelly," about two hours. Now we will show you how to make Jelly with Iceland Moss. 1. We wash one oz. of Iceland Moss well in cold water. 2. We then put it in a basin of cold water, and let it soak all night. 3. After that time we take it out of the water and squeeze it dry in a cloth. 4. We then put it in a saucepan with one quart of cold water. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil for one hour; we must stir it frequently. 6. We then strain it through a sieve into a basin, and sweeten it with loaf sugar. 7. It can be taken with either wine or milk according to taste.360 National Training School for Cookery. For Milk Jelly:— lo We boil the moss in the same quantity of milk instead of water (after it has been soaked) as above, only for two hours instead of one hour. 2. We then strain it into a basin and sweeten with loaf sugar according to taste. 3. When it is cold we turn the jelly out of the basin on to a dish and it is ready for use.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Milk Jelly. 361 JELLIES. Lesson No. 4. MILK JELLY FROM COW-HEEL, AND THE MEAT SERVED WITH ONION SAUCE. Average cost of about one quart of “Milk Jelly” and the meat served with the onion sauce— INGREDIENTS. Milk Jelly. d. • Onion Sauce. 1 cow-heel . 6 3 or 4 onions 1 quart of milk • 5 J pint of milk 2 inches of the stick of ] £ an oz. of flour cinnamon ! > Oj k an oz. of butter Sugar 1 1 113 Time required, about four hottrs. Now we will show you how to make a Milk Jelly from Cow-heel. 1. We buy a dressed cozv-heel from a tripe shop. 2. We put the cow-heel on a board, and cut it up into small pieces. 3. We put these pieces into an earthen jar or a saucepan with one quart of milk and two inches of the stick of einnamon. 4. We put the lid on the top of the jar, put a piece of paper over the lid, and tie it tightly down. 5. We put the jar into a very slow oven to stew for at least three hours. 6. If there is no oven to the stove, we can stand the jar by the side of the fire to stew. N.B.—It reduces less if stewed in the oven. 7. When the stew is finished we take the jar out of the oven, take off the lid, and strain the milk into a basin, and sweeten it according to taste.362 National Training School for Cookery. N.B.—The bones of the cow-heel should be put into the stock-pot. 8. We put the basin aside till the jelly is set; it may be eaten hot or cold according to taste. For serving the Cow-Heel with Onion Sauce:— 1. We take three or four onions, peel them, and cut them in quarters. 2. We put them into a saucepan with half a pint of milk. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil till the onions are quite tender ; it will take about one hour. 4. After that time we strain off the milk into a basin, put the onions on a board, and chop them up small. 5. We put half an ounce of butter into the saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 6. When the butter is melted we add half an ounce of flour, and mix them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. 7. We pour the milk in gradually, stirring it till it boils and thickens. 8. We then add the onions, season with pepper and salt according to taste ; and move the saucepan to the side of the fire. 9. We put the pieces of coiv-heel into the sauce, and let them warm through. 10. For serving we put the pieces of cow-heel on a hot dish, and pour over them the onion sauce. N.B.—The meat from the cow-heel might be served as a curry. The curry should be made in the same way as described in “Cooked Meat,” Lesson No. 4.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Ox Foot Jelly. 363. JELLIES. Lesson No. 5. JELLY AND STEW FROM OX FOOT. Average cost of about one ' quart of “ Jelly and a stew made from Ox Foot.— INGREDIENTS. For Jelly. For Stew. s. d. d. 1 ox foot 0 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion „, k oz. of dripping , ij £ lb. of lump sugar .... 0 X ' °I 1 egg I k oz. of butter ok 2 lemons 3 Flour and seasonintr of . Spices 0} 1 5? 2a Jelly flavoured with porter would be is. 2\d. Time required :— 1st day to stew the foot 7 hours. 2ud day to finish jelly 1^ ,, To make stew , 13 ,, Total 10 hours. Now we will show you how to make a jelly from Ox Foot. 1. We take a scalded ox foot, put it in cold water, and wash it well. 2. We take it out of the water, dry it in a cloth, and put it on a board. 3. We cut the foot with a sharp knife across the first joint and down between the hoofs, and chop the long piece in half. 4. We put these pieces into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire and just bring it to the boil.364 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We then take the pieces out, and wash them thoroughly in a basin of cold water. 7. We empty the water out of the saucepan, and wash it out well. 8. We put the pieces of foot back in the saucepan, cover- ing them well with cold water (about two quarts will be •enough for a moderate sized foot). 9. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils we should move it to the side of the fire and let it stew gently for six hours. 10. We must watch it and skim it carefully with a spoon from time to time. 11. After that time we strain off the stock into a basin, and put it aside to cool. N.B.—The foot we should put aside until required for use. 12. When the stock is quite cold wre take an iron spoon, dip it in hot water, and carefully skim off the fat. 13. We take a clean cloth, dip it in hot water, and wipe •over the top of the jelly, so as to remove every particle of fat. N.B.—For Porter Jelly, see below. 14. We take two lemons, wipe them with a cloth to be sure that they are quite clean, and peel them very thinly with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful in peeling the lemons not to cut any of the white skin, as it would make the jelly bitter. 15. We put the peel of one lemon into the stewpan or saucepan. 16. We cut the lemons in halves, and squeeze the juice of the two into the saucepan. N.B.—We must be careful to remove all the pips. 17. We take one egg, put the yolk in one basin and the white in another. 18. We whip up the white of the egg slightly. 19. We put the whipped white of the egg and the egg shell into the saucepan. 20. We put in a quarter of a pound of lump sugar\ half an inch of the stick of cinnamon, four cloves, and about a quarter of an inch of saffron.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Ox-foot Jelly. 365 21. We now add the jelly stock. 22. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the con- tents well with a whisk or iron spoon until it boils. 23. We now put the lid on the saucepan, and stand it by the side of the fire for twenty minutes or half an hour. 24. If there is no jelly bag we should take a clean cloth folded over cornerways, and sew it up one side, making it in the shape of a jelly bag. 25. We place two chairs back to back in front of the fire. 26. We take the sewn up cloth, hang it between the twa chairs, by pinning it open to the top bar of each chair. 27. We must place a basin underneath the bag. 28. We must look at the jelly in the saucepan, and when there is a good crust formed over, it is ready to. be strained. 29. We then take the saucepan off the fire and pour the jelly carefully into the bag to pass into the basin. 30. We repeat this two or three times until the jelly runs through quite clear. N.B.—A glass of wine may be added now if desired. 31. We take a quart basin or a mould, scald it with hot water, and then rinse it out with cold. 32. We pour the jelly into the basin and stand it aside to cool and set until it is required for use. N.B.—II porter jelly be required we put the jelly-stock into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, half a teaspoonful of mixed spice,. and half a pint of porter; we put it on the fire and let it boil for an hour and a half, stirring occasionally ; we then strain it in the same way as for the lemon jelly.366 National Training School for Cookery. N.B.—The bones of the foot should be put in the stock-pot. Now we will show you how to make a stew of the meat of the foot. 1. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean, and cut it in slices with a sharp knife. 2. We take a small turnip and an onion, peel them, and cut them in slices. 3. We put these vegetables into a saucepan with half an ounce of clarified dripping. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the vegetables fry a light brown ; we must be careful they do not burn. 5. We cut the meat off the bones of the foot, cut it up into nice pieces, and season them with pepper and scdt according to taste. 6. We put these pieces of meat into the saucepan with the vegetables. 7. We then pour in one pint of cold water, just bring it to the boil, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fire to stew gently one hour or till the vegetables are tender. 8. We then strain off the liquor and put the vegetables and meat on a dish. 9. We put the dish near the fire to keep warm. 10. We put half an ounce of butter into the saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 11. When the butter is melted we add half an ounce of flour, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 12. We stir in gradually the liquor, and stir it till it boils and thickens. 13. We then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire. N.B.—The sauce can be coloured with burnt sugar or a browned onion. 14. We now place in the meat and the vegetables, and let them just warm through. 15. We serve this stew on a hot dish with boiledpotatoes (see Vegetables, Lesson No. 1), or rice (see Rice, Lesson No. r).Lessons on Making Jellies.—Apple Jelly. 367 JELLIES. Lesson No. 6. APPLE JELLY. Average cost of “ Apple Jelly ” (about one and a half pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 pound of apples 4 1 lemon i| 3 oz. of lump sugar 1' I oz. of gelatine 3 J a teaspoonful of cochineal 1 io| Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Apple Jelly. 1. We take one pound of apples, peel them with a sharp knife, cut them in half, take out the core, and then cut the apples in small pieces. 2. We put the apples in a stewpan with three ounces of lump sugar and half a pint of water. 3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth. 4. We take a grater and grate the rind of the lemon over the apples. N.B.—We should be very careful only to grate the yellow peel of the lemon, as the white rind is very bitter. 5. We cut the lemon in half, and squeeze the juice through a strainer on the apples. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and cook the apples quite tender. 7. We must stir the apples occasionally to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. 8. We put one ounce of gelatine in a gallipot or small saucepan with half a gill {one gill is a quarter of a pint) of cold water, and stand it by the side of the fire to dissolve.368 National Training School for Cookery. 9. When the apples are cooked to a pulp, we place a hair sieve over a basin and rub the apples through with a wooden spoon. 10. We now stir the melted gelatine into the apple. N.B.—-We must be very careful that the gelatine is quite smoothly dissolved, there should be no lumps. N.B.—If liked, part of the apple might be coloured by stirring in half a tea- spoonful of cochineal. 11. We take a pint and a half mould\ rinse it out in boiling water and then in cold water. 12. We can ornament the bottom of the mould with pistachio nuts cut in small pieces, or preserved cherries, according to taste. 13. We now pour the apple in the mould, and if part of the apple is coloured we should fill the mould with alternate layers of coloured and plain apple. 14. We stand the mould aside in a cool place to set the apple. 15. For serving we dip the mould in boiling water for a second and then turn out the apple jelly carefully on to a dish. N.B.—Half a pint of doziile cream whipped to a stiff froth should be served with the apple jelly, either put round the edge of the dish or in the centre of the mould.Lessons on Making Creams. — Vanilla Cream. 369 CREAMS. Lesson No. i. VANILLA CREAM. Average cost of “ Vanilla Cream ” made with boiled custard (about a pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. q ep'p's s. d. O | pint of milk 1 ounce of best gelatine 3 £ pint of double cream 3 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar .... 0 ok | teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla ...., ok 1 11 Time required for making, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Vanilla Cream. 1. We take the yolks of three eggs and one white, put them into a basin, and beat them well with a wooden spoon. 2. We stir in half a pint of milk. 3. We pour this mixture into a jug. 4. We take a saucepan half full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 5. When the water is quite boiling, we move the sauce- pan to the side of the fire. 6. We stand the jug of custard in the saucepan of boiling water, and stir the mixture very smoothly until it thickens and becomes the substance of cream. N.B.—We must stir it very carefully and watch it continually that it does not curdle. 7. When the custard is sufficiently thick, we take the jug out of the water and stand it aside to cool. 8. We put one ounce of the best gelatine in a small stew- pan, with two tablespoonsful of cold water to soak and swell.370 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We then put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 10. We pour this melted gelatine through a strainer and stir it into the custard. 11. We pour half a pint of double cream into a basin, and whisk it to a stiff froth with the whisk. 12. We add to it a tablespoonfid of castor sugar and half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla. N.B.—If any other flavouring be preferred, it should be now added, instead of the essence of Vanilla. 13. When the custard is sufficiently cooled, we stir it lightly into the whipped cream. 14. We take a pint and a half mould, scald it with hot water, and then rinse it out with cold. 15. We pour the cream into the mould, and stand it in ice, until required for use. 16. For serving, we should dip the mould into boiling water for a second, shake it to loosen the cream, and then turn it out carefully on to a dish. N.B.—This is an economical recipe for making cream, but if made entirely ol cream, instead of cream and custard, it would of course be richer.Lessons on Making Creams.—Strawberry Cream. 371 CREAMS. Lesson No. 2. STRAWBERRY CREAM. Average cost of “ Strawberry Cream ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. f v 1 pint of fresh strawberries . o 6 ozs. of castor sugar o of f of an oz. of the best gelatine o 2.\ The juice of one lemon o \ pint of good cream i 3 2 Time required, alout half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Strawbeny Cream. 1. We take a pint of fresh strawberries, and put them on a board. 2. We must pick them over, and put aside any that are not quite good. 3. We must stalk them, and put them in a basin. 4. We sprinkle over them half an ounce of white castor sugar, which will help to draw out the juice. 5. We take a silk sieve and place it over a basin. N.B.—A hair sieve could be used instead. 6. We pass the fruit through the sieve with a wooden spoon. 7. We put three-quarters of an ounce of the best gelatine into a small stewpan, with two tablespoonsful of cold water, to soak and to swell. 8. We then put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 9. We add two ounces of castor sugar, and squeeze the juice of one lemon through a strainer into the stewpan.372 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We pour this mixture through a strainer, and stir it into the strawberries in the basin, and mix them well together. 11. We pour half a pint of good cream into a basin, and whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 12. We now add this cream to the strawberries in the basin, and stir them lightly together. 13. We take a pint mould, scald it with hot water and then rinse it out with cold. 14. We pour the strawberry cream into the mould, and stand it in ice, until required for use. 15. For serving, we should dip the mould into boiling water for a second, shake it to loosen the cream, and then turn it out carefully on to a dish.Lessons on Malting Creams.—Charlotte Russe. 373 CREAMS. Lesson No. 3. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Average cost of “ Charlotte Russe ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 12 sponge finger biscuits o 6 \ oz. of the best gelatine o I gill of milk o o| \ pint of double cream .. . i 3 1 dessertspoonful of sifted sugar o o| 30 drops of essence of Vanilla o 1 2 o£ Time required for making, alout half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Charlotte Russe. 1. We take a pint tin, and line it inside with sponge finger biscuits. N.B.—We must be careful to fit the biscuits close to each other, so that they form a wall of themselves. 2. We take a knife and cut off the tops of the finger biscuits that stand above the tin. 3. We put half an ounce of the best gelatine in a small stewpan, with one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cold milk, to soak and swell. 4. We pour half a pint of double cream into a basin, and whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 5. We add to it a dessertspoonful of sifted castor sugar, and thirty drops of essence of vanilla. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 7. We stir the melted gelatine into the cream, pouring it through a strainer. 8. We pour this cream into the tin. N.B.—We must be careful, in pouring in the cream, not to disarrange the finger biscuits. 9. We stand this tin in ice, until it is required for use. 10. For serving, we dip the tin into hot water for a second, shake the tin to loosen the cream, and turn it carefully on to a dish. N.B.—A more economical Charlotte Russe might be made by using a quarter of a pint of custard to a quarter of a pint of cream (as in “ Creams,'* Lesson No. 1).374 National Training School for Cookery. SOUFFLES. Lesson No. i. VANILLA SOUFFLE. Average cost of “ Vanilla Souffle” (about one and a half pint) and the sauce to be served with it. INGREDIENTS. if oz. of butter at is. 6d. lb if A dessertspoonful of sugar \ i oz. of flour f i f a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla t Salt ; I gill of milk of ~7i Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. For Wine Sauce. d. i oz. of sugar o| i tablespoonful of jam 2 Wine glass of sherry 6 f a teaspoonful of lemon-juice 1 9 2 Time required, about ten minutes. For Custard Sauce. d. 1 egg 1 Sugar and 6 drops of Vanilla oi 1 gill of milk of Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Steamed Vanilla Souffle Pudding. 1. We must prepare the tin for the souffle pudding. 2. We take a pint and a half tin and butter it well inside, using our fingers for that purpose. 3. We take a piece of paper and fold it so as to make a band round the tin, allowing about two inches of paper to stand up above the tin. 4. We butter the part of the paper above the tin with a knife. 5. We put the paper round the outside of the tin and tie it on with string.Lessons on making Souffles. — Vanilla Souffle. 375 6. We take a stewpan and just melt one ozince of butter in it over the fire. 7. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 8. We add one ounce of flour to the melted butter, and mix them both well together. 9. We then add rather more than a dessertspoonfid of pounded sugar. 10. We add one gill of milk (a gill is a quarter of a pint). 11. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly with a wooden spoon until it thickens. 12. We then take the stewpan off the fire again. 13. We add to the mixture the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, and beat all well together. 14. We take the three zv kites of the eggs, and put them in a basin with one more white to make four; adding half a saltspoonfid of salt, and then whip the whites quite stiff. 15. We add the whites to the above mixture and stir it lightly. 16. We now add the flavouring—half a teaspoonfid of Vanilla essence. N.B.—If the essence is very strong, or the bottle newly opened, so much is not required. 17. We mix all together and pour it into the bidtered tin. 18. We have ready a saucepan half filled with hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 19. When the water boils we stand the tin in it, but we must be careful that the water does not reach the paper round the tin, for it is only the steam which cooks the pudding. 20. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the pudding steam from twenty to thirty mimdes. 21. We must watch it, not letting the water boil too fast, or the saucepan will get dry and the pudding will burn.376 National Training School for Cookery. 22. When it is sufficiently steamed, we take the tin out of the saucepan of water. N.B.—To test if the pudding be done, we should touch the centre of the pudding with our finger ; it should feel firm. 23. We shake the tin and turn the Soitffle Pudding out on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it, which we must prepare while the soufftd is being steamed. N.B.—If a baked Vanilla Souffle” Pudding is required, we put the tin in a quick oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for half an hour, instead of putting it in the boiling water. No sauce is then wanted. Now we will make the sauce for the Steamed Vanilla Souffle' Pudding. For Wine Sauce. 1. We take a small saucepan and put in it one ounce of loaf sugar and one gill (or quarter pint) of cold water. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the sugar and water with a spoon until the sugar has quite melted, and it has become a smooth syrup reduced in quantity. 3. We put into it a tablespoonful of apricot jam. 4. We stir it all together over the fire to melt the jam. 5. We add a wineglassfid of sherry and half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. We stir it all again. 6. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the sauce round the souffletpudding. N.B. We must pour the sauce round the pudding very carefully, so as not to drop any of it on the side of it. We can make a Custard Sauce if preferred : 1. We break a whole egg in a basin and whip it well. 2. We add half a teaspoonfid of pounded sugar. 3. We add one gill (quarter pint) of milk, and six drops of Vanilla essence. 4. We pour all the mixture into a jug or gallipot. 5. We get a large saucepan of hot water and put it on the fire.Lessons on Making Souffles.— Vanilla Souffle. 377 6. We stand the gallipot in a saucepan. N. B.—The water must only come halfway up the gallipot. 7. We stir the mixture in the gallipot with a wooden spoon. 8. As soon as the mixture has thickened we take the gallipot out of the saucepan. 9. We pour the custard round the Souffle Pudding, and it is ready for serving.378 National Training School for Cookery. SOUFFLES. Lesson No. 2. CHEESE SOUFFLE. Average cost of “ Cheese Soufflet.” INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. of butter and J oz. of flour 1 teaspoonful of mignonette pepper . Salt and pepper, and cayenne pepper 1 gill of milk 2 eggs 3 oz. of Parmesan cheese d. o£ °i 2 iL 9k Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Cheese Souffle. 1. We take a stewpan, and put into it one ounce of butter: 2. We add one teaspoonful of mignonette pepper. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let the pepper fry iili the butter (to extract the flavour of the pepper) for two or three minutes. 4. We take the stewpan off the fire, and strain the butter into a basin ; as the pepper is only for flavouring, the grains must not be left in the butter. 5. We wash out the stewpan to prevent any of the grains remaining. 6. We pour the flavoured butter back in the stewpan. 7. We add half an ounce of flour, a teaspoonful of salty and half a teaspoonful of pepper, and cayenne pepper (about as much as would thinly cover half the top of a threepenny piece) according to taste ; and stir well together with a wooden spoon. 8. We add one gill {or quarter of a pint) of milk. 9. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the mixture smooth until it thickens.Lessons on Making Souffles.—Cheese Souffle. 379 10. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 11. We add one by one the yolks of tivo eggs, and beat them well together. 12. We take three ounces of Parmesan cheese. 13. We grate the cheese with a grater on to a plate or piece of paper. 14. We add the three oimces of grated cheese to the above mixture in the stewpan, and mix it all well together. 15. We whip the whites of two eggs with a little salt in a basin quite stiff. 16. We add the whites to the above mixture, and stir it lightly. 17. We take a plain tin pint mould\ and prepare it in the same way as we did for the Vanilla Souffle Pudding. (See Souffles, Lesson No. 1.) 18. We pour the mixture into the buttered tin mould. N.B.—This same mixture, if poured into Ramaquin papers and baked, will' make cheese Ramaquins. 19. We put the tin in the oven (the thermometer at'the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake from tzventy mimites to half an hour. We must look at it once or twice to see it does not burn, but the door of the oven should not be opened too often while the souffle is inside, lest it should check the souffle from rising properly. N.B.—To serve a baked souffle it should be kept in its tin, the buttered'1 paper taken off, and a clean napkin folded round the tin. It can also be baked in a mould which slips inside a plated or silver dish sold foE the purpose. This is the more elegant way of serving a souffle or fondu.380 National Training School for Cookery. SOUFFLES. Lesson No. 3. POTATO SOUFFLE. Average cost of “ Potato Souffle INGREDIENTS. 4 potatoes 11 1 oz. of butter i 2 tablespoonsful of milk o| 4 eggs 4 Seasoning o| 7\ Time required, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make Potato Souffle. 1. We take four good sized potatoes, wash and scrub them •with a scrubbing brush in a basin of cold water. 2. We take them out of the water, and dry them with a cloth. 3. We put them in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 230°) to bake ; they will take from half an hour to three quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven, and the size of the potatoes. 4. We take a skewer, and stick it into the potatoes to see if they are done. They must be soft inside. N.B.—This should be carefully done so as not to spoil the potato skins. 5. When they are done we take them out and cut them (with a sharp knife) in half—so that each half of the potato will stand—because we shall want to use the skins to put the potato into them again. 6. We take a small spoon and scoop out carefully all the inside of thpotatoes. We must take care not to make holes or spoil the skins in any way. 7. We take a wire sieve and put it over a plate, and take the inside of the potatoes and rub it through with a wooden •spoon.Lessons on Making Souffles.—Potato Souffle. 38 1 8. We put one oimce of butter and two tablespoonsful oj milk in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil. 9. We add salt and pepper according to taste. 10. We then add three ounces of the sifted potatoes, and! stir it smoothly. 11. We must now take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper or wooden trivet, on the table. 12. We take three eggs, and add, one by one, only the- yolks, beating all well together with a wooden spoon. 13. We take the three whites, and add another white to make four, and put them in a basin ; we add a quarter of a saltspoonfid of salt to them, and whip them to a stiff froth. 14. We add the whites to the above mixture, and stir the whole lightly. 15. We now stand the eight half-potato skins on a baking sheet. 16. We pour the mixture carefully into each potato skin (they should be only half full). 17. We put the sheet into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) for ten minutes, until they have risen well, and become a pale brown colour. 18. We should fold a table napkin, and arrange them on it for serving.3 8 2 National Training School for Cookery. SOUFFLES. Lesson No. 4. OMELETTE SOUFFLEE. Average cost of an Omelette Soufflee (in a half-pint disk). INGREDIENTS. 6 eggs }. 07.. of flour d. o\ 1 oz. of butter 4 3 ozs. castor sugar 7% Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make an Omelette Soufflee. 1. We take six eggs, put four yolks in a basin (the other two yolks are not required for present use), and put the whites of the six eggs in another basin. 2. We add three ounces of castor sugar to the yolks of the eggs, and beat them up well with a wooden spoon, for ten minutes. 3. We now stir in smoothly half an ounce of flour. N.B.—If the soufflee is to be flavoured, the flavouring should now be added, about fifteen drops of vanilla, or any other essence preferred. 4. We take a whisk, and whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and then stir them lightly into the contents, in the other basin. 5. We take half an ounce of butter and butter the inside of a half-pint pie dish or soufflee tin ; we then pour in the mixture. N.B.—If jam is added it must be put in the centre of the soufflie, before it is baked. 6. We put it in a quick oven (the thermometer at the door of the oven marking 240°) to bake for ten minutes. 7. We must serve the soufflee as soon as it is baked, or it will fall.Lesson on Making Sweet Omelettes. 383 SWEET OMELETTE. Average cost of a “ Sweet Omelette INGREDIENTS. 2 eggs \ oz. of butter at is. 6d. a lb Jam Sugar and salt 1 teaspoonful of orange flower water, Time required, about ten minutes. d. 2 of 1 1 Si Now we will show you how to make a Sweet Omelette of two eggs. 1. We break two eggs; we put the whites in one basin and thz yolks in another. 2. We put one teaspoonful of orange flower water, and one tablespoonful of castor sugar into a stewpan. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil quickly for three minutes, stirring occasionally. 4. We then pour it into a cup to cool; add to it the yolks of eggs, and beat them to a cream. 5. We add a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt to the whites of egg, and whip them to a stiff froth. 6. We add the whites to the mixture in the basin, and mix them together very lightly. 7. We put half an ounce of butter into a frying pan. 8. We put the pan on the fire, and let the butter get quite hot, but not burn. 8. When the butter is quite hot we must pour in the mixture. 10. We may let it stay on a slow fire for two, but not more than three minutes. 11. We must then take the pan off the fire and put it in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°).384 National Training School for Cookery. 12. We let it stay for about three or four minutes in the oven. 13. We take rather more than a dessertspoonful of jam. 14. We put the jam into a stewpan on the fire, and stir it until it has melted. 15. We take the pan out of the oven. 16. We take a knife and pass it round the edge of the omelette, to ease it from the pan. 17. We give the pan a shake to loosen the omelette. 18. We turn the omelette on to a hot dish. 19. We spread the jam on the omelette, and fold it over like a sandwich. 20. We sprinkle about a teaspoonful of white castor sugar over it, and it is ready for serving.Lesson on Making Savoury Omelette. 385 SAVOURY OMELETTE. Average cost of a “ Savoury Omelette.” INGREDIENTS. d. 2 eggs at id. each 2 Salt, pepper, and parsley of 1 oz. butter ij 4 Time required, about four minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Savoury Omelette of tzuo eggs. 1. We break two eggs into a basin. 2. We add salt and pepper to taste. 3. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely on a board (there should be about a teaspoonfut). 4. We add the chopped parsley to the eggs. 5. We beat the eggs lightly for two seconds with a fork. N.B.—The omelette could be flavoured with chopped herbs or mushrooms * with bacon or kidney cut in small pieces, or with grated cheese, according to taste. 6. We take one ounce of butter, and put it in an omelette or frying pan. 7. We put the pan on the fire to melt the butter. N.B.—The fire should be bright and clear. 8. We wait till the bittter is quite hot, taking care that it does not burn. 9. We pour the mixture of the egg into the pan. 10. We stir the mixture quickly with a spoon. 11. We must not let it burn or stick to the pan. We must shake the pan to prevent the omelette sticking or burning. 12. We turn it quickly towards the handle of the pan and with the spoon, turn it over for a second, and then on to a hot dish, and it is ready for serving. B B386 National Training School for Cookery. MACCARONI. Lesson No, I. Average cost of “ Maccaroni with Milk ” and “ Maccaroni with Cheese'.' INGREDIENTS \ lb. of Maccaroni Salt 1 quart of skimmed milk 2 oz. of cheese 1 oz. of butter Salt and pepper, and cayenne pepper d. Time required, about one hour and three-quarters. Now we will show you how to cook Maccaroni. 1. We put a saucepan of hot water on the fire to boil. 2. We take half a pound of maccaroni, and put it in the saucepan of boiling water, with one tablespoonful of salt, and let it boil gently for half an hour. 3. After that time we pour the water out of the sauce- pan. 4. We put one quart of skimmed milk into the saucepan. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for one hour. 6. When the maccaroni is sufficiently cooked and quite tender, we turn it out on a hot dish, and it can be eaten with sugar or treacle. N.B.—If liked, maccaroni and cheese can be made of it. 7. For maccaroni and cheese, we take two ounces of cheese, and grate it with a grater on to a piece of paper. 8. We take a dish or a tin and grease it well inside with a piece of dripping or butter. 9. When the maccaroni is sufficiently cooked (as above) we turn it out of the saucepan on to the greased dish.Lessons on Cooking Maccaroni. 3S7 10. We sprinkle over it pepper and salt and two or three grains of cayenne pepper, according to taste ; or, about half a teaspoonful of mustard might be mixed with it. 11. We stir part of the grated cheese into the maccaroni and the remainder we sprinkle over the top. 12. We take one ounce of butter, cut it in small pieces, and put these pieces of butter about on the top of the maccaroni. 13. We put the dish in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°), or in a Dutch oven before the fire for ten minutes; it should become a pale brown. 14. It will then be ready for serving.388 National Training School for Cookery. STEWED MACCARONI. Lesson No. 2. Average cost of “ Maccaroni Stewed in Stock” INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of maccaroni «... * 2-£ Salt and pepper ) 1 pint of stock j 4 n Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to stew Maccaroni. 1. We take half a pound of maccaroni and put it in a saucepan with plenty of hot water and a dessertspoonful of salt. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. 3. After that time we put the maccaroni into a colander, take it to the tap, and turn some cold water on it. 4. We now let the maccaroni drain in the colander. 5. We then turn it on a board, and cut it up in pieces. 6. We put one pint of stock into a saucepan. 7. We put the maccaroni into the stock, and season it with pepper and salt, according to taste. 8. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 9. For serving, we turn the maccaroni out on a hot dish.Lesson on Making Cheese Straws. 389 CHEESE STRAWS. Average cost of “ Ingredients ” for “ Cheese Straws (about three dozen). INGREDIENTS. 2 oz. of butter d. 2 oz. of flour 2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese 1 oz. of Cheddar cheese I eP’P" Salt and cayenne pepper V- 8| Time required, about twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Cheese Straws. 1. We put two ounces of flour on a board, and mix into it half a saltspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. 2. We take two ounces of Parmesan cheese and one ounce of Cheddar or some strong cheese, and grate them on a grater. 3. We rub the cheese and two ounces of butter into the flour. 4. We now mix all the ingredients together with the yolk of an egg into a smooth stiff paste. 5. We flour the board and the rolling pin, and roll out the paste into a strip one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and five incites wide (the length the cheese straws are to be). 6. We now take a sharp knife, dip it in flour, and cut the paste into strips o?ie-eighth of an inch wide, so that they will be five inches long and one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 7. We take two round cutters, dip them in flour, and cut little rings of paste. 8. We take a baking sheet, and grease it with butter. 9. We put the cheese straws and the rings on the baking sheet, and put it into a hot oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) for ten minutes.390 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We must look at the cheese strcnus occasionally, and see that they do not burn ; they should be of a pale brown colour when done. 11. For serving-, we take the cheese straws off the baking sheet, and put them through the rings of paste like a bundle of sticks.39i Lesson on Pickling Cabbage. PICKLED CABBAGE. Average cost of “ Pickled Cabbage.” INGREDIENTS. s. d. A red cabbage o 3 A gallon of vinegar 1 4 Mace, cloves, allspice, whole pepper o i| Salt and ginger o o| 1 9 Time required, about three days. Now we will show you how to Pickle a Cabbage, 1. We take a redcabbage, cut it in half, and cut out the stalky and wash it well in salt and cold water. N. B. —A white-heart cabbage will do to pickle, but green cabbages cannot be used. 2. We put it on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 3. We lay the slices in a large pan, sprinkle a handful of salt over each layer of slices, cover the top well with salt, and leave them for two days. N.B.—We must turn the slices every morning and evening, and sprinkle a handful of salt over the layers each time we turn them. 4. We then drain the slices on a hair sieve for one day. 5. We put a gallon of vinegar, two blades of mace, twenty - four cloves, tzventy-four allspice berries, and twenty-four peppercorns into a saucepan, with three pieces of ginger an inch long. 6. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil up. 7. We then turn the vinegar and spices out of the sauce- pan into a broad pan to cool. N.B.—They must on no account be allowed to cool in the saucepan. 8. We put the cabbage into a stone jar, and pour the vinegar and spices over it. 9. The cabbage must be quite covered with vinegar, and as it soaks it up more vinegar must be poured over it N.B.—This quantity of vinegar is sufficient for a large cabbage; a smaller one will take less. 10. We tie the jar over with wash leather, brown paper, or a bladder. The Pickle is now ready for use.392 National Training School for Cookery. PICKLE FOR MEAT. Average cost of “ Pickle for Meat ” (about one gallon). INGREDIENTS. d. i lb. of salt 6 oz. brown sugar i i? oz. saltpetre oj i gallon water Time required, about half an hour to make. Now we will show you how to make Pickle for Meat. 1. We put one pound of salt, six ounces of brown sugary one ounce and a half of saltpetre, and one gallon of water into a large saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to bring it to the boil, and then let it boil for five minutes. We must keep it well skimmed. 3. We then strain it into a tub or large basin. 4. When the pickle is quite cold, meat can be put into it. N.B.—The meat should be kept well covered with the pickle 9 days. N.B.—This pickle will keep for 3 weeks in summer and 3 months in winter. N.B.—When the pickle is required again after it has once been used, it should be boiled up again, skimmed, strained, and allowed to get cold before the fresh meat is put into it. N.B.—If used for pig’s head the pickle should be thrown away and not used again.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Sultana Cake. 393 < CAKES. Lesson No. i. SULTANA CAKE. Average cost of a “ Sultana Cake” INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of flour £ lb. of butter 5 lb. of sugar 5 lb. of sultana raisins 1 oz. of candied peel 1 teaspoonful of baking powder Two tablespoonsful of milk.... 1 lemon s. o o o o o o o o o d. 2 1 1 1 z Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Sultana Cake. 1. We put half a pound of flour into a basin. 2. We rub a quarter of a pound of butter into the flour 'with our hands. 3. We now add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins. 4. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the rind of it into the basin. 5. We cut up one ounce of candied peel into small pieces, and add it to the other ingredients. 6. We put two tablespoons fid of milk into a small basin, and add to it the yolks of two eggs. (The whites we put on a plate.) 7. We stir the milk and the eggs together, and then pour it into the other ingredients, and mix all together. 8. We butter a cake tin.N. B—This will prevent it getting heavy. 394 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We whip the whites of the eggs into a stiff froth with a knife, and stir it lightly into the mixture. 10. We now pour it into the tin, and put it into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for one hour and a quarter. 11. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side, or on a sieve to cool. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Cakes.—German Pound. 395, CAKES. Lesson No. 2. GERMAN POUND CAKE. Average cost of a “ German Pound Cake INGREDIENTS. 10 oz. of flour 8 oz. of fresh butter 8 oz. of castor sugar 2 oz. of candied peel I lemon \ lb. of sultana raisins 4 eggs s. d. o 2 o 10 0 31 o l| o 2 O 1^ O 4 2 O Time required, about two hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make a German Pound' Cake. 1. We stand a wire sieve over a plate and rub through it ten ounces of flour. 2. We put eight ounces of fresh butter into a basin, and work it to a cream with our hand. 3. We add a tablespoonful of the siftedflour, a tablespoon- ful of castor sugary and one eggf and mix them well into the butter. 4. We continue to mix in by degrees the flour, sugar, and eggs until they are all used up. 5. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the rind of it into the basin. 6. We also add a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins and two ounces of candied peel (cut up in small pieces). 7. We stir all the ingredients together with a spoon. 8. We line a cake tin with buttered foolscap paper, and put three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom of the- tin.396 National Training School for Cookery. N.B.—This will prevent it getting heavy. 9. We pour the mixture into the tin, and put it into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for two hours. 10. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin, and stand it on its side, or on a sieve to cool. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Plain Cake. 39 7 CAKES. Lesson No. 3. PLAIN CAKE. Average cost of this “ Cake ” {about 1 pound). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour d. 3 oz. of dripping Baking powder, allspice, and salt ?! 5 lb. of currants | pint of milk it | lb. of sugar ccl># H 00 required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Plain Cake. 1. We take one pound of flour and put it in a pan or large basin. 2. We mix into the flour a teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. 3. We take four ounces of clarified dripping, rub it well into the flour with our fingers until there are no lumps remaining. 4. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, put them in a cloth, and rub them clean. 5. We add the currants to the flour, also half a teaspoon-- ful of ground allspice, and a quarter of a pound of brow?i sugar. 6. We mix these ingredients together with a wooden spoon. 7. We now pour in half a pint of milk, and mix it all well together. 8. We take a pound tin and grease it inside with a piece of dripping. 9. We pour this mixture into the tin.N.B.—This will prevent it getting heavy. 398 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We put the tin into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for one hour. 11. After that time we take the tin out of the oven. 12. We turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side to cool. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Seed Cake. 399 CAKES. Lesson No. 4. SEED CAKE. Average cost of a “ Seed Caked INGREDIENTS. d. 10 oz. of flour 1 \ 2 oz. of sugar o| 1 teaspoonful of baking powder ) q1 1 teaspoonful of carraway seeds J z 2 oz. of clarified dripping i Two tablespoonsful of milk Oj 1 egg \ x Salt j H Time reqtiired, one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Seed Cake. 1. We take ten ounces of flour and put it in a basin. 2. We mix into the flour, one teaspoonful of baking poivder, and half a saltspoonful of salt. 3. We take two ounces of clarified dripping and rub it well into the flour with our hands, until there are no lumps remaining. 4. We add two ounces of crushed loaf sugar and one tea- spoonfid of carrazvay seeds. 5. We mix these well together with a wooden spoon. 6. We break one egg into a cup and beat it up with two tablespoonsful of milk. 7. We pour this into the basin and mix all quickly together into a stiff paste, stiff enough to allow a spoon to stand up in it. 8. We take a cake tin and grease it inside with a piece of dripping. 9. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it at once in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for one hour.400 National Training School for Cookery. 10. To know when the cake is sufficiently baked, we run a clean knife into it, if it comes out perfectly bright and undimmed by steam, the cake is done. 11. We turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side to cool. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Plum Cake. 401 CAKES. Lesson No. 5. PLUM CAKE. Average cost of a “Plum Cake ” (about one and a half pound). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour £ lb. of fruit (plums or currants).... 3 oz. of dripping | lb. of sugar 1 egg Two tablespoonsful of milk A teaspoonful of baking powder.... Salt 2 oz. of candied peel d. .. 2* .. 3* .. 2 .. 1 .. 1 .. oi } «* Time required, about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make a Plum Cake. 1. We put one pound of flour into a basin, with a tea- spoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. 2. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping and rub it well into the flour with our hands until there are no lumps remaining. 3. We take half a pound of plums or currants or a quarter of a pound of each and add them to the flour. N.B.—If currants are used they should be well washed and dried in a cloth and picked over to see there are no stones in them. Large plums should be stoned before they are used. 4. We take two ounces of candied peel, cut it in small pieces and put it in the basin. We also add a quarter of a pound of sugar. N.B.—If peel is disliked it may be omitted. 5. We break one egg into a basin and add to it two table- spoonsful of milk, and beat them up. 6. We stir this into the ingredients in the basin, mixing them all well together. c c402 National Training School for Cookery. N.B.—Th1_ wjll prevent it getting heavy. 7. We take a tin and grease it inside with dripping. 8. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for about an hour. 9. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side slanting against a plate till it is cold. It is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Cornflour Cake. 403 CAKES. Lesson No. 6. CORNFLOUR CAKE. Average cost of a “ Cornflour Cake” (about half a pound). INGREDIENTS. 1 tablespoonful of flour I 3 lb. of cornflour / 3 lb. of loaf sugar 2 oz. of butter 1 teaspoonful of baking powder 2 eggs cL. 2 T 2 01 2 7t Time reqiured, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Cake. 1. We put two ounces of butter into a basin, and beat it to a cream. 2. We add to the butter a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and mix it well. 3. We break in tzvo eggs and beat all well together. 4. We now stir lightly into the mixture a quarter of a pound of cornflour, one tablespoonful of flour, and a tcaspoonful of baking pozvder, and beat it well together for five minutes. 5. We grease a cake tin inside with butter or dripping. 6. We pour the mixttire into the tin and put it imme- diately into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for half an hour. 7. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and slant it against a plate until it is cold. (This will prevent its getting heavy.) It is then ready for serving. N.B.—If preferred, the mixture could be baked in small tins instead of one large one, in which case it would only take fifteen minutes to bake. C C 2404 National Training School for Cookery. N.B.—This will prevent it getting heavy. CAKES. Lesson No. 7. DOUGH CAKE. Average cost of a “Dough Cake’ (about two pounds and a half). INGREDIENTS. d. 5 a quartern of dough 4 1 egg 1 \ lb. of sugar 1 lb. of currants 1 2 oz. of butter 2 1 oz. of candied peel 1 10 Time required, about an hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Dough Cake. 1. We put half a quartern of dough (made as for bread\ see “Bread,” Lesson No. i) into a basin. 2. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, wash them, dry them in a cloth, and pick them over to see there are no stones mixed with them. 3. We add the currants, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and one ounce of candied peel chopped finely, to the dough. N.B.—If liked, half a teaspoonful of mixed spice might be added. 4. We now break one egg into the basin, add two ounces of butter, and beat all the ingredients well together. 5. We take a tin, and grease it well inside with dripping. 6. We turn the mixture into the greased tin. 7. We put the tin into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) until the cake is sufficiently baked ; it will take about forty minutes. N.B.—To test if the cake is done, we should run a clean knife into it, and if it comes out clean, the cake is sufficiently baked. 8. We then turn the cake out of the tin, and place it on its side, leaning against a plate until it is cold. It is then ready for serving.Lesson on Making Shrewsbury Cakes. 405 SHREWSBURY CAKES. Average cost of “ Shrewsbury Cakes ” (about half a pound). INGREDIENTS. d. i lb. of butter 4 £ lb. of castor sugar ., x J 6 oz. of flour 1 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon rind 0} 1 egg 1 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Shrewsbury Cakes. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of castor sugar into a basin, and beat them together till the mixture is of the same consistency as cream. N.B.—If the butter is very hard, it might be beaten over hot water. 2. We add to the mixture one egg and about a teaspoon- ful of grated lemon rind, and beat all well together. 3. We now stir in smoothly by degrees six ounces of flour. N.B.—We must be careful not to let it get lumpy. 4. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 5. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste as thin as possible. 6. We dip a cutter or wine-glass in flour, and cut the paste into biscuits or cakes. 7. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter, and put the cakes on it. 8. We put the tin into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for about twenty minutes ; they should be a light brown when baked. 9. The cakes are then ready for use.406 National Training School for Cookery. ROCK CAKES. Average cost of “Rock Cakes” (about one pound). INGREDIENTS. d. § lb. of flour £ lb. of currants £ lb. of sugar i i oz. of candied peel i i teaspoonful of baking powder o| i teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger o^ 3 oz. of clarified dripping 2 1 egg 1 About 1 tablespoonful of milk o j _8£ Time required, half ait hour. Now we will show you how to make Rock Cakes. 1. We put half a pound offlour into a basin. 2. We stir one teaspoonful of baking powder into the flour. 3. We take three ounces of clarified dripping, and rub it well into the flour with our hands, until there are no lumps remaining. 4. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, put them in a cloth, rub them clean, and pick them over to see that there are no stones with them. 5. We add the currants to the flour; also one teaspoonful of ground ginger or grated nutmeg; and a quarter of a pound of crushed loaf sugar. 6. We take one ounce of candied peel\ cut it in pieces, and add it to the other ingredients. 7. W e mix all these ingredients together with a wooden spoon. 8. We break one egg into a cup, and beat it up with about one tablespoonful of milk. 9. We pour this into the basin, and mix all well together into a very stiff paste.Lesson on Making Rock Cakes. 40 7 the cakes are then ready for use. 10. We take a tin, and grease it with dripping. 11. We divide the paste into small portions with two forks, and lay them in rough heaps on the tin. 12. We put them into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for about fifteen minutes. 13. After that time we take them out of the oven, and408 National Training School for Cookery. BUNS. Average cost of “ Buns ” (this quantity will make about twenty-seven). INGREDIENTS. d. i oz. of German yeast i lb. of flour 3! 3 gills of milk i| 1 oz. of butter I £ lb. of moist sugar 1 £ lb. of sultana raisins or currants 1J 9! Time required, alout two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Buns. 1. We put one gill and a half (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk into a saucepan and put it on the fire. 2. We put one ounce of German yeast into a basin. 3. When the milk is just warm, we pour it by degrees on to the yeast, mixing them well together with a spoon. 4. We put one pound of flour into a large basin and stir into it the milk and yeast, mixing it into a dough. 5. We cover the basin with a cloth, and stand it on the fender, and let it rise for about one hour. 6. We put one gill and a half of milk into a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, and put it on the fire to warm. 7. We put half a pound of flour into a basin and stir into it the milk and butter. 8. When the dough is sufficiently risen, we turn it into this mixture, and work them well together. 9. We now add a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins or currants and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and mix all well together. N.B.—If currants are used they should be well washed, dried in a cloth, and carefully picked over to see if there are any stones mixed with them. 10. We cover the basin with a cloth and stand it near the fire to rise again for one hour.Lesson on Making Buns. 409 N.B.—This will prevent their getting heavy. 11. After that time we take a tin and grease it with dripping or butter. N.B.—If there is no tin, the shelf from the oven should be greased and used instead. 12. We flour a paste board and turn the dough out on it. 13. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the dough into pieces. 14. We flour our hands, and form the dough into balls. N.B.—This quantity of dough will make about twenty-seven ordinary sized buns. 15. We put the buns on the tin. 16. We put the tin into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake the buns for about half an hour. 17. When they are half done, we take the tin out of the oven, brush the buns over with water, and sprinkle white sugar over them. 18. We now put the tin back in the oven. 19. When the buns are sufficiently baked, we take them off the tin and slant them against a plate until they are cold. They are then ready for serving.4io National Training School for Cookery. RICE BUNS. Average cost of “ Rice Buns” (about eight or ten). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 tablespoonful of flour ) L 5 lb. of ground rice ) 12 \ lb. of sugar i 2 oz. of butter 2 2 eggs 2 ^ a teaspoonful of baking powder o;j Time requ ired, half an hotir. Now we will show you how to make Rice Buns. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of ground rice and a tablespoonful of flour into a basin, with half a teaspoonful of baking powder. 2. We add a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and two ounces of butter, and mix all together with a wooden spoon. 3. We break in two eggs and beat all lightly together. N.B.—We should be careful to see that the eggs are good before adding them to the mixture. 4. We take some small tins or patty pans, and grease them well with a piece of dripping or butter. 5. We fill these tins iivo-thirds full with the mixture. N.B.—This quantity will make about eight or ten buns. N.B.—If there are no small tins, the mixture could be put into a cake tin, which should be previously greased inside. 6. We put the tins into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for fifteen minutes. 7. After that time, we turn the buns out of the tins, and lean them against a plate until they are cold. They are then ready for serving. N.B.—This will prevent their getting heavy.Lesson on Making Ginger-Bread Ntits. 411 GINGER-BREAD NUTS. Average cost of “ Ginger-bread Nuts ” (about twenty-fowr). INGREDIENTS- d. 1 lb. of flour | lb. of treacle 2 40Z. ofbutter 4 5 an oz. of ground ginger oV Allspice 1 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda > oj Salt ) 3 oz. of moist sugar i Two tablespoonsful of milk ] 10 Time required, about twenty-five minutes. Now we will show you how to make Ginger-bread Nuts. 1. We put one pound of flour into a basin with about half a saltspoonful of salt. 2. We also add half an ounce of ground ginger, three ounces of moist sugar, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and allspice (about as much as will cover a threepenny piece). 3. We put half a pound of treacle and four ounces of butter into a saucepan, and melt them together over the fire. 4. We mix the ingredients together with two tablespoons- ful of milk, and then add the melted treacle and the four ounces of butter, and mix all well together into a firm paste. N.B.—We should be very careful that all the ingredients are well mixed and that there are no lumps left. 5. We flour a board and turn the paste out on to it. 6. We should flour our hands and knead thpaste. 7. We now divide the paste into about twenty four pieces. 8. We roll each piece into a ball, like a walnut, and put them two inches apart on a greased tin. 9. We put them in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) for fifteen minutes. 10. After that time we turn the ginger-bread nuts off the tin and set them aside to cool. They are then ready for serving.412 National Training School for Cookery. MILK BISCUITS. Average cost of “ Milk Biscuits ” (about two dozen). INGREDIENTS. i gill [\ pint) of milk i oz. of butter i £ lb. of flour i teaspoonful of baking powder o£ 3 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Milk Biscuits. 1. We put one gill (a quarter of a pint) of milk into a saucepan ; we add to it one ounce of butter, and put it on the fire to warm. 2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin with a teaspoonful of baking powder. 3. When the milk is hot, we pour it into the flour and stir it carefully into a smooth, stiff paste. 4. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 5. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll the paste out into as thin a sheet as possible. 6. We flour a docker or a tumbler and cut the paste out into rounds, about the size of the top of a teacup. 7. We grease a tin with dripping or butter, and place the biscuits on it. 8. We put the tin into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for twenty minutes. 9. After that time we turn the biscuits off the tin, and set them aside to cool. They are then ready for serving.Lesson on Making Oatmeal Biscuits. 413 OATMEAL BISCUITS. Average cost of “ Oatmeal Biscuits ” (about half a pound). INGREDIENTS. 7 oz. of flour 3 oz. of oatmeal 3 oz. of castor sugar 3 oz. of lard or butter \ of a teaspoont'ul of carbonate of soda 1 egg d. 1 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Oatmeal Biscuits. 1. We put three ounces of lard or butter into a saucepan* and put it on the fire to melt and warm. 2. We put seven ounces of flour into a basin with three ounces of oatmeal three ounces of castor sugar, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and mix all toge- ther with a spoon. 3. We now stir in the melted lard. 4. We put about a tablespoonful of cold water into a tea cup; we break one egg into the water and beat them slightly together. 5. We add this to the mixture in the basin, and mix all well and smoothly together with a spoon. 6. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 7. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste as thin as possible. 8. We flour a tumbler and cut the paste into biscuits according to taste. 9. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter, and place the biscuits on it. 10. We put the tin into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for twenty minutes. 11. After that time we turn the biscuits off the tin, and set them aside to cool; they are then ready for serving.414 National Training School for Cookery. SCONES. Average cost of “ Scones ” (about eight), INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of flour 2 \ 5 pint of milk i| 3 oz. of butter 3 § oz. of cream of tartar 'j 2 oz. of carbonate of soda s 1 1 oz. of sugar J 75 Time reqiiired, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Scones. 1. We put one pound of flour into a basin and mix into it half an ounce of cream of tartar, a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda, and one ounce of sugar. 2. We take three ounces of butter, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 3. We turn it out on to a floured board. 4. We mix it into a smooth paste with half a pint of milk. 5. We flour a rolling pin and roll it out to make sure that the butter is well mixed in the flour. 6. We flour the rolling pin and roll out the paste to a thin sheet, about one-third of an inch in thickness. 7. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the paste into triangular pieces, each side about four inches long. 8. We flour a tin, put the scones on it, and bake them directly in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) for thirty to forty minutes. 9. When the scones are half done, we should brush them over with milk. N.B.—Scones should be served hot.Lesson on Making Short-Bread. 415 SHORT-BREAD. Average cost of “ Short-Bread,” INGREDIENTS. £ lb. of flour 2 oz. of butter 1 oz. of castor sugar _3 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Short-Bread. 1. We put two ounces of butter in a Saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt and warm. 2. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin with one ounce of castor (pounded lump) sugar, and the melted butter. 3. We mix these ingredients well together. 4. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 5. We flour our hands and knead the paste well. 6. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to about one-third of an inch in thickness. 7. We flour a knife and cut the paste into oval shapes. 8. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter. 9. We put the short-bread on the tin, and put it in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake till a pale brown. We should then take out the tin and set the short-bread aside to cool ; it is then ready for serving.4i 6 National Training School for Cookery. MILK ROLLS. Average cost of “Milk Rolls'' (about twelve). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of self-raising flour 3 2 oz. of butter 2 Milk 1 6 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Milk Rolls. 1. We put one pound of self-raising flour into a basin and rub tzvo ounces of butter into it with our hands. 2. We add sufficient milk to make it into a lithe firm dough. 3. We sprinkle flour over a board, and turn the dough out on it. 4. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the dough into twelve pieces. N.B.—We should keep our hands floured to prevent the dough from sticking to them. 5. We form each piece into a small roll. 6. We flour a baking tin. 7. We put these roils on to the tin and put the tin in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for twenty minutes. 8. The milk rolls will then be ready for use.4i7 On Making Yorkshire Tea Cakes. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. Average cost of “ Yorkshire Tea Cakes ” (about two). INGREDIENTS. d. f of a lb. of flour if ijy gill of milk of i oz. of butter i I egg i \ an oz. of German yeast o| _S Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make Yorkshire Tea Cakes. 1. We put one gill and a halftone gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk into a small saucepan and put it on the fire. 2. We put half an ounce of German yeast into a basin, and when the milk is just warm we pour it on to the yeast. 3. We put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a large basin, and rub into it one ounce of butter. 4. We beat up one egg in a cup, and then add it to the flour. 5. We now pour the yeast and milk through a strainer into the basin, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 6. We flour a board and turn the dough out on it. . T$m 7. We flour our hands and knead the dough for a minute or two. 8. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and divide the dough into cakes. 9. We take some cake tins (as many as are required), and grease them inside with dripping. 10. We put the cakes into the tins. N.B.—The tins should be only three-quarters full, so as to allow for the cakes to rise. D D4i8 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We stand the tins near the fire, and allow the cakes to rise for one hour. 12. After that time we put the tins into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for a quarter of an hour. 13. We then turn the cakes out of the tins, and place them on a sieve, or on the seat of a cane chair, to cool. They are then ready for serving. N.B.—This will prevent them from getting heavy.419 Lessons on Making Bread. BREAD. Average cost of “Bread” [about a quartern). INGREDIENTS. d. 3j lbs. flour (2nds) at 2s. 4d. the peck 7 1 oz. German yeast ) T 1 teaspoonful of salt f 8 Time required, quarter of an hour for making, two or three hours for rising, and one hour and a half for baking. Now we will show you how to make Bread. 1. We take three pounds and a half of seconds flour; put three pounds of it into a large pan, and make a hole or well in the centre of the flour. N.B.—Half a pound is reserved to work the bread up with. 2. We put one ounce of German yeast into a basin. 3. We add about a gill of tepid water, and stir the yeast into a stiff paste. 4. We then fill the basin with luke-warm water, and stir the yeast smoothly, making in all about one pint and three gills. 5. We add to the flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and then pour in by degrees the yeast, mixing the flour lightly into a dough with our hands. 6. We should add more lukewarm water if the dough is too stiff. N.B.—We must be sure to mix up all the flour into dough. 7. We sprinkle about a tablespoonful of dry flour over the dough, and cover the pan with a cloth. 8. We place the pan near the fire for at least two hours to let the dough rise. 9. When the dough has risen sufficiently, we take up the420 National Training School for Cookery. pan and work in more flour■ if necessary, to make the dough stiff enough to turn out of the pan. N.B.—We must keep our hands well floured all through the process of bread making. 10. We turn the dough out on a well-floured board, and knead it well, using up a good deal more flour. 11. We divide the dough into six equal pieces, knead each piece separately, and make into a loaf. N.B.—If the bread is to be baked in tins we form each loaf into a dumpling or ball (with a smooth surface and no cracks in it), either long or round according to the shape of the tin. 12. We put the bread into the tins, which should be well floured. 13. We cut a slit in the top of the dough, or prick it with a fork. N.B.—If the bread is to be made into cottage loaves,— 14. We divide each piece into two, one rather larger than the other. 15. We make each into a ball, put the smaller one on the top of the other, and press our forefinger into the middle of the top. N.B.—Cottage loaves are baked on floured tins. N.B.—If there are no tins the oven shelf should be washed and floured, and a tin is not then necessary. 16. We let the loaves rise half an hour in a warm place before we put them in the oven. 17. We then put them in the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 280° and after a quarter of an hour be reduced to 220°) for about one hour and a half. N.B.—To test if the bread is sufficiently baked we should run a clean knife into the loaves, and if it comes out perfectly bright the bread is done. 18. When we take the bread out of the oven we stand each loaf up on its side to cool. It is then ready for use.Sick-Room Cookery.—Chicken Panada. 421 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. i. CHICKEN PANADA. Average cost of “ Chicken Panada.” INGREDIENTS. 5. d. \ a chicken i 6 A tablespoonful of cream o i£ i 7z Time required, alout two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Chicken Panada. 1. We take a chicken and clean it in the same way that we do for roasting a fowl (see “Trussing a Fowl for Roasting ”). 2. We cut the chicken in half, dividing it down the middle of the back with a sharp knife. 3. We take all the flesh off the bones of half the chicken, and cut it into small pieces with a sharp knife. 4. We put the pieces of chicken into a gallipot, and sprinkle over them half a saltspoonful of salt. 5. We take a piece of paper and tie it over the top of the gallipot. 6. We take a saucepan half full of boiling water, and put it on the fire. 7. We stand the gallipot in the saucepan, and let it simmer for two hours. The water must not cover the gallipot. 8. After that time we take the gallipot out of the saucepan. 9. We take the pieces of chicken out with a spoon, We must not lose any of the liquor. 10. We take the pieces of chicken, and put them into a mortar and pound them well to a pulp.422 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We take a tammy sieve and stand it over a basin. 12. We take the pounded chicken and pass it through the sieve, rubbing it with a wooden spoon. 13. We pour a little of the chicken liquor into the pulp on the sieve to make it pass through more easily. 14. When all the chicken pulp has been passed through into the basin, we stir in one tablespoonful of cream. 15. When the Panada is required, it should be warmed, but great care should be taken not to let it boil or the cream will curdle. We use the bones for Chicken Broth. 1. We take the chicken bones and put them in a saucepan with one pint of cold water. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it simmer gently for two hours. 3. We must watch it, and skim it occasionally. 4. When required for use, we take a strainer and strain the chicken broth into a basin. 5. We flavour it with pepper and salt according to the taste of the patient.Sick-Room Cookery.—Beef Essence. 423 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 2. BEEF ESSENCE. Average cost of “ Beef Essence INGREDIENT. 1 lb. of gravy beef 9d. Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make Beef Essence. 1. We take one pound of gravy beef and cut off all fat and gristle with a sharp knife. 2. We cut the lean up into small pieces, and put them into a jar. 3. We put the cover over the jar and tie a piece of paper over it. 4. We take a saucepan half full of boiling watery and stand it on the fire. 5. We stand the jar in the saucepan of boiling water to steam for two hours. The water must not cover the jar. 6. When it is done we take a strainer and put it over a basin. 7. We strain off the liquor into the basin, and flavour it with pepper and salt according to the patient’s complaint. N.B.—The meat can be put aside and used again far second stock.4 24 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 3. CREAM OF BARLEY. Average cost of “ Cream of Barley .” INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. veal cutlet y\ | oz. of barley oj | gill of cream 3 Time required. about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Cream of Barley. 1. We take half a pound of veal cutlet, and cut off all the fat with a sharp knife. 2. We cut the lean into small pieces and put it in a saucepan with one pint of cold water. 3. We add half an ounce of barley, (previously well washed and soaked an hour in cold water), and half a saltspoonful of salt. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it boil gently for two hours. 5. We strain off the liquor into a basin, and put the meat and barley in a mortar and pound them together. 6. We take a hair sieve, and put it over a basin. 7. We turn the pounded meat and barley, on to the sieve, and rub them through with a wooden spoon. 8. We pour the liqitor on to the sieve to help the pulp to pass through. 9. When it has all passed through the sieve into the basin, we stir in smoothly two tablespoonsful of cream. 10. When the Cream of Barley is required, it should be warmed, but great care must be taken not to let it boil or the cream will curdle.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.■—Arrowroot. 425 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 4. A CUP OF ARROWROOT AND ARROW- ROOT PUDDING. Average cost of “ Cup of Arrowroot" and “Arrowroot Pudding'.' INGREDIENTS. A dessertspoonful of arrowroot oj \ a pint of milk ) Castor sugar J 4 2 eggs 2 A. Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cup of Arrowroot. 1. We take a dessertspoonful of Arrowroot, and put it into a small basin. 2. We add a dessertspoonful of cold milk, and stir it smoothly into a paste with a spoon. 3. We add a small teaspoonful of castor sugar, according to taste. 4. We take a small saucepan, and put in it half a pint of cold milk. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire, and watch the milk carefully until it boils. 6. When it is quite boiling, we pour it on to the arrowroot paste, stirring all the time to get it quite smooth. N.B.—If the patient prefers an Arrowroot Pudding:— 7. We add to the mixture described above, the yolks of two eggs, whipping it all well together. N.B.—The eggs should not be added till the mixture has cooled a little, or they would curdle.426 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We put the whites of the same eggs into another basin, and whisk them to a stiff froth. 9. We add the whites of the eggs to the arrowroot mixture, stirring them lightly together. 10. We pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and put it into the oven (the thermometer at the oven door should rise to 240°) to bake for ten minutes. It should be then served at once.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Rice Water. 42 7 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 5. RICE WATER. Average cost of “ Rice Water.” INGREDIENTS. 3 oz. of Carolina rice 1 inch of the stick of cinnamon Sugar Time required, abozit one hour. Now we will show you how to make Rice Water. 1. We take three ounces of Carolina rice, and wash it well in two or three waters. 2. We take a stewpan with one quart of warm water. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the rice, and one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and let it boil for one hour, until the rice has become a pulp. 5. We then take the stewpan off the fire, and strain the rice water into a basin, and sweeten it according to taste. N.B.—When cold it is ready for use. d. of 05428 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 6. BARLEY WATER. Average cost of “ Clear Barley Water ” (about half a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 2 oz. of pearl barley oj The rind of a quarter of a lemon oj 2 lumps of loaf sugar o| 1 Time required, about one hour. For Making Thick Barley Water (about one pint). d. 2 oz. of pearl barley o| The rind of half a lemon o| Sugar oj Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make two kinds of Barley Water—Clear Barley Water and thick Barley Water. For half a pint of clear barley water:— 1. We take two ounces of pearl barley, and wash it well in two or three waters. 2. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 3. We take a quarter of a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. N.B.—We must be careful, in peeling the lemon, not to cut any of the white skin, as it would make it bitter. 4. We put the washed barley into a jug. 5. We put in the lemon peel and two lumps of loaf sugar. 6. When the water in the kettle is quite boiling, we pour one pint of it on to the barley in the jug.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Barley Water. 429 7. We cover over the top of the jug, and let it stand on ice or in a cool place, until it is perfectly cold. 8. We then strain the water into a clean jug for use. N.B.—The barley can be used again with the addition of one ounce of fresh. For one pint of thick Barley Water:— 1. We take two ounces of pearl barley, and wash it well in two or three waters. 2 We put the barley into a stewpan, with one quart of cold water. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil gently for two hours. 4. We take half a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. 5- We put the lemon peel into a jug. 6. When the barley water is sufficiently boiled/we strain it into the jug over the lemon. 7. We put the jug into a cool place, and when it is perfectly cold, we take out the lemon peel, and sweeten the water, according to taste. It is then ready for use. BARLEY WATER FOR INVALIDS. Time required, five minutes. 1. We take one ounce of Robinson s Patent Barley, mixed with a wine-glass full of cold water. 2. We pour this into a stewpan containing one quart of boiling water. 3. We stir this over the fire while boiling for five minutes. 4. We then flavour it with a small piece of lemon peel or cinnamon. 5. We put the jug into a cool place, and when it is perfectly cold we take out the lemon peel and sweeten the water, according to taste. It is then ready for use.430 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 7. APPLE WATER. Average cost of “Apple Water” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. 6 apples The rind of half a lemon Sugar d. 5 Time required for making, about eight minutes. Now we will show you how to make Apple Water. 1. We take six apples, peel them, and cut out the core. N.B.—When the apples are juicy, six will be sufficient, but more may be required according to the season of the year. 2. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 3. We cut the apples up in slices. 4. We take half a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. 5. We put the slices of apple and the lemon rind into a jug- 6. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one quart of it on to the apples in the jug. 7. We sweeten it according to taste. 8. We stand the jug of apple water aside to cool. 9. When the water is quite cold we strain it into another jug, and it is then ready for use.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Lemonade. 431 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 8. LEMONADE. Average cost of “ Lemonade” (one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. d. 2 lemons 3 Loaf sugar o£ 35 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Lemonade. 1. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 2. We take two lemonsy wipe them clean in a cloth, and peel them very thinly. N.B.—We should be careful, in peeling the lemons, not to cut any of the pith, or white skin, as it would make the lemonade bitter. 3. We now cut off all the pith. 4. We cut up the lemons into thin slices, take out all the pips, and put the slices and half the rind of the lemons into a jug. 5. We add loaf sugar, according to taste, about one ounce. 6. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one pint and a half on. to the lemons in the jug. 7. We cover over the jug, and stand it aside to cool. 8. When the lemonade is quite cold, we strain it into another jug, and it is then ready for use.432 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 9. TOAST AND WATER. Average cost of “ Toast and Water” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. 1 crust of bread %d. 1 quart of cold water. Time, required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Toast and Water. 1. We take a crust of bread and toast it quite brown on all sides in front of the fire. N.B.—Crumb should not be used as it would turn sour. 2. We put the toasted crust of bread into a jug, and pour on it one quart of cold water. 3. We cover the jug over with a cloth, and stand it aside for half an hour. It is then ready for use. N.B.—This is a pleasant drink, and considered more refreshing than when made with boiling water.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Gruel, 433 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 10. GRUEL Average cost of “ Gruel” (one pint). INGREDIENTS. 2 dessertspoonsful of patent groats Sugar £ oz. of fresh butter | gill (2 tablespoonsful) of rum .... Time required, about fifteen minutes. Now we will show you how to make Gruel. 1. We put a stew-pan with one pint of water on the fire to boil. 2. We take two dessertspoonsful of patent groats, and put them in a basin. 3. We add by degrees two tablespoonsful of cold water to the groats, and stir it into a smooth paste. 4. When the water in the stew-pan is quite boiling, we pour in the mixed gruel, and stir it well with a wooden spoon, until it has boiled for ten minutes (it must not be lumpy), we then pour it into a basin. 5. Now it is ready for use. N.B.~-If the gruel be required for a cold— 6. We stir in £ oz. of fresh butter\ and sweeten it according to taste. 7. We also add two tablespoonsful of rum. N.B.—If the patient is feverish, spirits should not be added.434 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. ii. WHITE WINE WHEY, OR TREACLE POSSET. Average cost of “ White Wine Whey” or “ Treacle Posset ” {half a pint). INGREDIENTS. For White Wine Whey. d. | pint of milk i 4 lumps of sugar o£ Qr i wineglassful of wine 3 For Treacle Posset. d. 2 pint of milk ... 1 2 a gill of treacle 1 Time required, about ten mimites. Now we will show you how to make White Wine Whey. 1. We put half a pint of milk into a saucepan and four lumps of sugar. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 3. When it boils we pour in a wineglassful of wine (sherry or cowslip) according to taste. N.B.—If the milk is not quite boiling the wine will not curdle it. 4. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for about one minute. 5. We then strain the whey into a glass and it is ready for serving at once. N.B.—The curds are not digestible. N.B.—Treacle posset is made in the same way, except that no sugar should be added to the milk, and the same quantity of treacle is used instead of wine.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Bran Tea. 435 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 12. BRAN TEA. Average cost of “ Bran Tea” {one quart). INGREDIENTS. 3 tablespoonsful of bran. 1 i , Sugar or honey. { 4 ’ Time required, abozit twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Bran Tea. 1. We put a kettle of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We take three tablespoonsful of bran (not too coarse, for that is greasy) and put it into a large jug. N.B.—Bran is the husk of the grain which is sifted from the flour after the wheat is ground by the miller. 3. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one quart into the jug. 4. We cover the jug and let it stand for a quarter of an hour to draw. 5. When it is drawn, we strain off the tea through a piece of muslin, and sweeten it according to taste with either sugar or honey. It is then ready for use. N.B.—When wine is good for the patient it may be added to the tea, or lemon juice, but it is very good without. N.B.—'This is an invaluable drink for softening the throat.436 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 13. MUTTON BROTH. Average cost of " Mutton Broth ” (7m> quarts). INGREDIENTS. j. d. 4 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mnttob . 2 8 2 knuckles from the legs of mutton 1 o A saltspoonful of salt J Qi 2 oz. of Patna rice j 3 3 Time required for making,—the stock should he made the day before, and then the broth can be finished in about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make tzvo quarts of Mutton Broth. 1. We take four pounds of the scrag end of the neck of mutton > wash it well, put it on a board, cut away all the fat, and chop it up in large pieces. 2. We put these pieces into a stewpan, with two knuckle- bones from the legs of mutton. 3. We pour in five pints of cold water and add a salt- spoonful of salt. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then let it simmer for four hours. 5. We must watch it and skim it very often. 6. After that time we strain the stock into a basin, and put it aside until it is quite cold and in a stiff jelly. 7. We then take the stock and remove all the fat from the top with a spoon. 8. We take a clean cloth and dip it in hot water, and dab over the top of the stock so as to remove every particle of grease. 9. We must now take a clean dry cloth and wipe the top of the stock dry.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Mutton Broth. 43 7 10. We take two ounces of Patna rice, and wash it well in two or three waters. 11. We put the stock into a stewpan. 12. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 13. When the stock is quite boiling we stir in the rice, and let it boil for twenty-five minutes to cook the rice. N.B.—We should feel that the rice is quite tender. 14. We season it with pepper and salt, according to the patient’s complaint. 15. For serving, we pour the broth into a basin. N.B.—The bones should be put in the stock pot.438 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 14. MUTTON BROTH. Average cost of this dish. i.e., about one quart of mutton broth and a dish of boiled mutton with parsley sauce— INGREDIENTS. j. d. 2 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton i 4 1 oz. of pearl barley or rice 1 t h a salispoonful ot salt J 0 0:f | oz. of butter o o| 4 oz. of flour ( . 2 sprigs of paisley j 2 1 5i Time required, about two hours and forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Mutton Broth. 1. We take two pounds of the scrag end of the neck of vmttony and wash it well until it is quite clean. 2. We put the meat into a large saucepan with three pints of cold watery and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We take one ounce of pearl barley or rice, and wash it well in cold water. 4. When the water boils we put in the pearl barley or rice and half a saltspoonful of salt to help the scum to rise. 6. We now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours and a half. 6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally with a spoon. 7. If the meat is required’for immediate use we should make sauce to pour over it. 8. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it and wring it in a cloth, put it on a board, and chop it up finely with a knife.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Mutton Broth. 439 9. We put half an ounce of butter into a saucepan and put it on the fire. 10. When the butter is melted we stir in smoothly half an ounce of flour with a wooden spoon. 11. We take one gill (quarter pint) of broth from the mutton, pour it on to the btctter and floury and stir smoothly until it boils and thickens. 12. We now add the chopped parsley to the saucey and move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep warm till required for use. 13. When the mutton is sufficiently cooked, we take out the meat and put it on a hot dish. 14. We pour the parsley sauce all over the mutton. 15. We pour the broth into a basin to cool. 16. When it is cold we should remove all the fat before warming it up for use. N.B.—If the broth is required for immediate use we can remove the grease with blotting paper or whitey-brown paper.44° National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No, 15. BEEF TEA. Average cost of “ Beef Tea ” (one pint and a half), INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of gravy beef . gd. Time required, about one hoitr and ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make Beef Tea. 1. We take one pound of gravy beef put it on a board and cut it up very fine, removing all the skin and fat. 2. We put the meat into a saucepan with one quart of cold water, half a saltspoonful of salti and two or three pep- percorns, if allowed. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and just bring it to the boil. 4. We then move it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for one hour. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 5. After that time we pour off the beef tea and let it get cold. 6. We should remove all fat from the beef tea before warming it up for use. N.B.—Fat can be taken off hot beef tea with blotting paper or whitey-brown paper. N.B.—It is better not to strain beef tea, as it removes all the little brown particles which are most nutritious.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Beef Tea. 44 r SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 16. BEEF TEA. (made with equal quantities of beef and water.. Average cost of “ Beef Tea ” (half a pint). INGREDIENTS. | lb. of gravy beef 4\d. Time required, about three hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Beef Tea. 1. We take half a pound of gravy beef put it on a board, and cut it up very finely, removing all the skin and fat. 2. We put the meat into a stone jar, with half a pint of water. N.B.—In making this beef tea. the quantity of meat and water should be of equal weight, i.e., one pint to one pound. 3. We put the lid on the jar, and tie a piece of paper over it 4. We stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water on the hob for three hours, or in the oven for one hour and a half N.B.—If the jar is put into the saucepan of boiling water, we should be careful that the water does not cover the jar, or it would get inside. 5: After that time we take out the jar, and pour off the beef tea into a cup. N.B.—If allowed, we add salt according to taste.442 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 17. QUICK BEEF TEA. Average cost of “ Beef Tea ” Chalf a pint). INGREDIENTS. | lb. gravy beef 4\d. Time required, about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Quick Beef Tea. 1. We take half a pound of gravy beef put it on a board, and cut it up very fine, removing all the skin and fat. 2. We put it in a saucepan with its equal weight in water, i.e., half a pint. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire and bring it quickly to the boil. 4. We let it boil for five minutes, and then pour it off into a cup and it is ready for serving. N.B.—We should be careful to remove any particles of fat, with blotting- paper, or whitey-brown paper floated on the top of the beef tea, and it will absorb the fat.Sick-Room Cookery.—Savoury Custard. 443 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 18. SAVOURY CUSTARD. Average cost of “ Savoury Custard” {onegilt). INGREDIENTS. d. i egg ) Salt j 1 i gill of beef tea 2f Time required, about twenty minutes. 3* Now we will show you how to make Savoury Custard. 1. We take one egg and break it into a small basin. 2. We add one gill of beef tea, and a quarter of a salt- spoonful of salt. 3. We whisk up the egg and the beef tea well together. 4. We take a small gallipot and butter it inside. 5. We pour the mixture into the gallipot. 6. We take a piece of whitey-brown paper and butter it. 7. We put this buttered paper over the top of the gallipot, and tie it on with a piece of string. 8. We take a saucepan of hot water and put it on the fire. 9. When the water is quite boiling, we stand the little gallipot in it. N.B.—The water must not quite reach the paper with which the gallipot is covered. 10. We draw this saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. N.B.—It must not boil, or the custard will be spoiled. 11. We take the gallipot out of the saucepan, take off the buttered paper, turn the custard out on to a hot dish, it is ready for serving.4. ,, „ FRIED SWEETBREAD. APPENDIX. LIST OF RECIPES. 1. ORDINARY SALAD. 2. TOMATES FARCIE AU GRATIN. 3. SICK-ROOM COOKERY—SCOLLOPED OYSTERS.Appendix— Ordinary Salad. 447 ORDINARY SALAD. Average cost of INGREDIENTS. d. 1 Cos or long lettuce, or two cabbage lettuces .. 2 tablespoonsful of best salad oil 3 1 dessertspoonful of common vinegar, or 1 tea- 'j spoonful of tarragon and one teaspoonful V 1 of common vinegar J 1 saltspoon of salt ) 1 \ a saltspoonful of pepper j 4 ^ a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard ) s £ a small onion, or two or three spring onions j * Time required, about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to dress an “ ordinary salad!' N.B.—A salad can be made with watercress, mustard and cress, endive, beet- root, cucumber, celery, and any cold boiled vegetable, such as, potato, carrot, turnip, parsnip, the flower of cauliflower, and cabbage, according to taste. They can be dressed as an ordinary salad,-or with a mayonnaise sauce. , (See Sauces, Lesson No. 3.) 1. We take the lettuce, wash it well in cold water, and pull off each leaf separately, so as to get them quite free from dirt or grit. 2. We put the lettuce into a clean cloth, hold the cloth up by the corners, and shake the lettuce well, so as to get it quite dry. 3. We break up the leaves of the lettuce into small pieces, and put them into a salad bowl. N.B.—A lettuce should never be cut with a knife. If the flavour of onion is liked, the dish could be rubbed round with half an onion, or two or three spring onions (washed and the green tops cut oft) can be put in the salad. 4. We take a bottle of salad oil and pour two tablespoonsful of oil over the lettuce, and mix it up well with a spoon and fork. 5. We take the tablespoon, put in it a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of ready- made mustard (if liked), and a dessertspoonful of common or tarragon vinegar, or half and half, according to taste ; mix all up together, and then pour it over the lettuce; mix up the lettuce well. r t ; ‘ 6. The salad is now ready for serving.448 National Training School for Cookery. TOMATES FARCIE AU GRATIN. Average cost of INGREDIENTS. 7 tomatoes, 3d. each 2 shalots ) 1 small onion J 6 mushrooms 2 oz. chopped ham 2 oz. butter, at is. 4d. a lb 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley ) Nutmeg, pepper and salt j 1 tablespoonful of grated bread-crumbs .. i 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmasan cheese ) 2 7 Time required, about half-an-hour. Now we will show you how to cook “ Tomates Farcies au gratin'.' 1. We take the shalots and the onion, peel them, and chop them up finely on a board. 2. We take the mushrooms, cut off the ends of the stalks, wash them in cold water, peel them, and chop them up finely. 3. We take two ounces of ham, and chop it up finely. 4. We take the parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely. 5. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through a wire sieve on to a plate; there should be a tablespoonful of crumbs. 6. We put the crumbs on a tin in the oven to brown; we must watch them, and not let them burn ; when they are brown enough we take the tin out and turn the crumbs on to a plate. 7. We put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, we also add the chopped ham, and vegetables ; put the stewpan over the fire, and stir the contents well for ten minutes; s. d. x 9 2 \ 2Appendix—Tomates Farcie au Gratin. 449 after that time we take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 8. We take seven tomatoes (they should be of equal sizes if possible), cut off the tops of them with a sharp knife, and carefully scoop out the inside. 9. We take an ounce of Parmasan cheese, and grate it with a grater over the browned bread-crumbs on the plate. 10. We fill each tomato with the mixture in the stewpan, and sprinkle the bread-crumbs and cheese over the top of each one. 11. We put the stuffed tomatoes on to a tin, and put them in the oven to warm. 12. For serving, we arrange them nicely on a hot dish.45° National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. Average cost (for four scollop shells'). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 doz. cooking oysters, is. 6d. or 2s. per doz... 40 Bread-crumbs 2 2 oz. of butter 2j 4 4* Time required, about half-an-hour. Now we will show you how to “ scollop oysters.” 1. We put two dozen oysters, and the liquor that is with them, into a small saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, and bring them to the boil; this is to blanch the oysters. 3. We take the saucepan off the fire as soon as it boils, and pour the liquor through a strainer into a basin. 4. We place the oysters on a plate, and take off the beards and all the hard parts of the oysters. 5. We put a wire sieve over a plate, and rub through it some crumb of stale bread. 6. We take four scollop shells, and grease them well inside with butter. 7. We sprinkle about a teaspoonful of bread-crumbs into each scollop shell. 8. We then put in the oysters, six in each shell, and sprinkle in with them a dessertspoonful of bread-crumbs, and three or four tiny bits of butter, about the size of dice. 9. We should mix a saltspoonful of pepper and salt together, and sprinkle it over the oysters, then pour in theSick-room Cookery.—Scolloped Oysters. 451 oyster liquor\ and fill up the shells with a smooth layer of bread-crumbs, and two or three little bits of butter on the top. 10. We put the shells on a tin, put it in a brisk oven to bake for from ten to fifteen minutes : the scollops should be a pale brown. 11. For serving, we fold a napkin neatly, and put it on a hot dish, and place the scollops on it.452 National Training School for Cookery. They are then ready for serving. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. FRIED SWEETBREADS. Average cost of INGREDIENTS. s. d. Sweetbreads, from 4*. to 5^. each 5 o 1 egg 1 Bread-crumbs ) 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley j 1 Lard, or clarified dripping for frying 5 2 Time required, about half-an-hour. Now we will show you how to fry sweetbreads. N.B.—Calves’ heart, or throat sweetbreads are what are ordinarily sold, lambs’ sweetbreads are more tender and delicate. 1. We take the sweetbreads and put them into a sauce- pan, with luke-warm water enough to cover them ; put the saucepan over the fire, and just bring it to the boil. N.B.—This is to blanch them, and should be done as soon as the sweetbreads arrive, in order to prevent their turning sour. 2. We take the sweetbreads out of the saucepan, lay them in a cloth, and gently wipe them; then put them on a board, and cut them in slices about half an inch thick. N.B.—If the sweetbread is small it can be fried whole. Lambs’ sweetbread need not be cut up. 3. We proceed with the siveetbreads as described in “Fish, Lesson No. 7,” from note 27 to end, excluding Notes 32, 33, and 40.453 Appendix—Aspic Jelly. ASPIC JELLY. ONE QUART. Average cost of INGREDIENTS. 2 calves’ feet Salt 30 peppercorns 2 blades of mace 1 clove of garlic 2 shalots 1 sprig of thyme I small bunch of parsley 1 onion, stuck with 4 cloves ... 1 leek 1 a head of celery 2 carrots 1 turnip 1 sprig of tarragon 1 sprig of chervil 2 bay leaves The rind and juice of 1 lemon The whites of 2 eggs ... £ gill of common vinegar 1 tablespoonful chili vinegar ... \ gill of tarragon vinegar 1 gill of sherry 2 quarts of water s. d. ... 1 6 j J- 1 o } 6 4 3 4 Time reqtdrcd, about seven hours. Now we will show you how to make Aspic Jelly. 1. We take two calved feet and put them on a board. 2. We chop them in eight pieces with a chopper. 3. We wash them well in cold water. 4. We put them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them, and let them boil up on the fire to blanch them, then pour the water off and wash them again in cold water. 5. We wash the stewpan and put back the pieces of feet into it, with two quarts of water, put it on the fire, and just bring it to the boil, watch it and skim it occasionally.454 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We now add half a teaspoonful of salt and all the other ingredients except the lemon, the eggs, and the vinegars. N.B.—The vegetables should be washed, scraped, and peeled before use. 7. We let all boil gently for five hours. 8. We then strain it off through a hair sieve into a basin, and let stand until perfectly cold ; skim off the fat from the top, and wipe it with a cloth dipped in hot water, to remove every particle of grease. 9. We put the stock into a clean stewpan, peel the lemon very thinly, and add the peel, and juice, to the stock, also add the whipped whites of two eggs, and the shells, the vinegars, and salt to taste, whisk all over the fire until it boils; then put the stewpan by the side of the fire, and let it stand for half-an-hour, to form a crust. 10. We take a clean soup clcth, and fix it on the stand. 11. We pour the contents into the cloth, and let it all run through into a basin placed underneath. 12. We let it pass a second time slowly, into the basin. 13. We scald a mould with boiling water, then rinse it in cold water before pouring the jelly into it. 14. We garnish the mould, with fish, or vegetables, according to taste, and stand it aside until cold. 15. When the jelly is required, we should dip the mould into a basin of hot water, for about a second, shake the mould to loosen the jelly, place a dish over the top of the mould, and turn the jelly carefully out, it is then ready for serving.National Training School for Cookery. 455 REGULATIONS AND FEES OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON The National Training School for Cookery was established in the year 1874. The chief object of the school was to train teachers who should become instructors of cookery in training schools, board schools, and similar institutions. The courses of instruction in the school are :— 1. For educated persons who wish to qualify themselves to become teachers of cookery. 2. For students and cooks. 3. For those who wish to be able to practise cookery in their homes. The course of instruction for a Teacher of cookery has been drawn up by Mrs. C. Clarke, the Lady Superintendent, and is as follows :— Teachers of Cookery can now pass through a full course of 20 weeks’ training in Cookery, and practice in teaching at the National Training School for Cookery, South Kensington. The fee is ^21. Teachers of Plain Cookery only can now pass through a course lasting 10 weeks. The fee is £6 6s. Twenty Weeks’ Course. Fee, £21. MORNING. AFTERNOON. ist Week Scullery, Learning H. C. Demonstration. 2nd „ Scullery, Teaching „ 3rd „ Plain Cookery Demonstration „ 4th ,, „ ,,45 6 National Training School for Cookery. 5 th Week 6 th a 7 th tt 8th n 9th a 10th tt nth a 12 th 11 13 th it 14th ti 15th tt 16 th a 17th a 18th tt 19th tt 20th tt Plain Cookery Practice Kitchen a » >j » 5> » Plain Cookery Practice Kitchen n High Class Practice Kitchen a a a tt rt a High Class Practice Kitchen tt a Demonstration, Public. a tt Demonstration a a Theoretical Examination. Learning. a tt tt Teaching. a Learning. a a tt Teaching. it Ten Weeks’ Plain Cookery Teachers’ Course.' Fee, £6 6s. ist Week—Demonstration, io to 12. 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7 th 8th , 9* , 10th , a tt Practice, 10 to 3. tt tt tt Teaching tt Demonstration, 10 to 12.. tt a Scullery learning, 2 to 4. Scullery teaching, „ Theoretical Exa?n ination.National Training School for Cookery. 457 Students in training are expected to attend an Evening Class held by a Staff Teacher once a week. A Student in training for 20 weeks for a Teacher first passes through the Scullery and Demonstration Classes for four weeks. She then spends four weeks learning in the Plain Cookery Practice Kitchen, and a fortnight teaching. She next goes into the Hi^h Class Practice Kitchen, and spends four weeks learning, and a fortnight teaching. The last month is devoted to Practice in Demonstrating in public, for which the Lady Superintendent has drawn up careful and full rules; these are hung up close to where the Student stands to give her demonstration. ? During her course of training at the School, the Student can, if she likes, dine with the other Pupils for 6d. or ij-. When the Staff Teachers are all employed, a few extra teachers are taken on as improvers, at^i a week, as this fits them to fill good appointments in the Provinces, when they offer. These engagements are terminable by a week’s notice on either side, but employment is not compulsory nor is it guaranteed. The work of Teachers on the Staff varies somewhat according to the nature of their appointment. If employed in the School itself she will have to be in her kitchen by 9.30 a.m. to see that her kitchen-maid has everything in proper order for the Pupils to begin work at 10 a.m.; the Teacher would in most cases be able to leave the School at 5 p.m. If a Staff Teacher be sent to the Provinces the hours of work in that case depend greatly upon the Local Committee, who for the time being employ her, but the number of hours of work are limited to 24 in the week, to be distributed by arrangement with the Local Committee and the Teacher. Students will be admitted either by payment of fees, or by sub- scribers’ votes. If by votes, the Candidate must not be under 18 or exceed 35 years of age. She must be sufficiently educated to be able to perform the duties&of an instructor after the special training in Cookery. The diplomas of Teachers are of two classes. A Candidate is to understand that she will be required to be proficient in Pronunciation, Enunciation, Common Arithmetic, and Writing and Spelling correctly, which proficiency will be tested at the final examin- ation ; and no diploma can be given unless she possesses these qualifi- cations in addition to the knowledge requisite fora Teach'er of Cookery itself.45 B National Training School for Cookery. The conditions of admission are— (a) That the Student agrees to obey all the Rules of the School laid down by the Executive Committee. (th) That for any infraction of the Rules, the Student may be discharged at a day’s notice, without having a claim of any kind upon the School. (c) That it be clearly understood that the Committee are not responsible for finding any paid employment for the Students while in the School or afterwards, the employment of Teachers, certified by the School, resting wholly with the public. At the end of the Pupil’s course of training in the School, she will be expected, before receiving any diploma, to pass a Theoretical Examination; specimens of the questions which have been asked can be obtained in the School from the Secre- tary for id. The whole fee of T21 when the Candidate has no vote, or so much of the fee as remains due when she has any votes, to be paid in three equal instalments, each in advance. The course of instruction is as follows— Practice in scullery work and cleaning, and practice in teaching the same. The best way of lighting and managing a fire, of cleaning a fire-place, regulating flues, the management of the oven, etc., or of patent fire- places in general use for cooking, the difference between a close range and an open one, etc. The proper and highest degree of cleanliness to be obtained in pots and pans, the best method of cleaning such articles, of removing stains from enamel, burnishing copper, etc. Practice in Plain Cookery and teaching the same. Practice in High Class Cookery and teaching the same. Teaching both kinds of Cookery by Public Demonstration. N.B.—Any person may attend the Cookery Classes, and Demonstrations at ‘ the usual Fees without passing any Examination. Teachers, while on the Staff, and employed in the School, are not free to take any engagement without leave of the Committee in writing ; when their services are not required, they will receive one month’s notice. Teachers holding diplomas not on the Staff are free to make any engagement for teaching they may think fit, and may refer to the Lady Superintendent, who will give additional information as to their qualifications when requested to do so. INSTRUCTION BY DEMONSTRATION AND PRACTICE FOR LEARNERS. Courses of Teaching by Demonstration, and Courses of Practice in Cookery and Cleaning are now being regularly held at the National Training School of Cookery, Exhibition Road, South Kensington. Persons desirous of joining the Courses should apply personally, or by letter enclosing 3 stamps to the Lady Superintendent, at the School. Pupils can enter for the Courses on any Monday.National Training School for Cookery. 459 £ * * Scullery cleaning (five lessons) io a.m. to 12 noon 10 0 Ten Plain Cookery Demonstrations 10 a.m. to 12 noon 4 6 Ten High Class Demonstrations 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 10 6 Ten Plain Cookery Practice lessons 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 220 Ten High Class Practice lessons 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 330 Single lessons from 6d. to ioj. 6d. If the Scullery work be omitted, the High Class Practice Kitchen fee will be 4*., and the Plain Cookery Practice Kitchen £$ 3^. Fees to be paid on entry. The following is an outline of the Practice in Scullery work, and Cleaning:— The best way of Lighting and Managing a Fire—Of Cleaning a Fire-place—Regulating Flues—The Management of the Oven, and of Fire-places in general use for Cooking—The Difference between a Close Range and an Open one, &c. The proper and highest degree of Cleanliness to be obtained in Pots and Pans ; the best method of cleaning such articles— Of removing Stains from Enamel—Burnishing Copper, &c. THE LESSONS REPEAT THEMSELVES EVERY FORTNIGHT- PLAIN COOKERY DEMONSTRATION. Morning from 10 to 12. Fee, 4s. 6d. the Course. Single Lessons, 6d. FIRST WEEK. Monday... Sheep’s Head, Milk Soup Maigre, Macaroni, Stewed Liver and Bacon, Sea Pie. Tuesday... Irish Stew, Bone Soup, Breast of Veal, Baked Plum Pudding, Ragout of Rabbit. Wednesday Meat Pie, Toad in the Hole, Pea Soup, Cornish Pasties, Fruit Turnovers, Pot au Feu. Thursday... Rissoles, Mulligatawny Soup, Sausage Rolls, Croquettes, Pancakes, Pork Pie. Friday... Baked Haddock, Plaice fried, Mackerel stuffed, Fish Pudding, Broiled. Fish, Fish Soup.460 National Training School for Cookery. SECOND WEEK. Monday ... Tuesday ... >Wednesday Thursday Friday ... Bread, Roast Joint, Boiled Suet Pudding, Baked Meat, Yorkshire Pudding, Boiled Meat. Haricot Purde, Stewed Knuckle of Veal and Melted Butter. Cold Meat—Hash, Balls of Meat, Patties, Shepherd’s Pie, Gateau of Cold Meat, Boudinettes of Meat, Apple Dumplings, Tripe and Onions. Roast Heart, Mutton Broth, Beefsteak Pudding, Piquante Sauce, Marmalade Pudding. Curry of Cold Meat, Cabbage Soup, Mince, Gingerbread, Apple Pudding, Cakes. Sick-room Cookery. HIGH CLASS COOKERY DEMONSTRATION. Afternoon, from 2 to 4. Fee, ioj. 6d. the Course. Single Lessons, is. 6d. FIRST WEEK. SECOND WEEK. Monday... Braising, Trussing, Boning, Stewing. Tuesday... Soups and Purges. Wednesday Vegetables, Salads and Savouries. Thursday Entries. ,Friday ... Entries. Monday... Omelettes and Souffles, etc., Vienna Bread. Tuesday... Pastry various. Wednesday Puddings various. Thursday Jellies and Creams, etc., Meringues. Friday ... Fish Entries. The School is on view every day from 2 to 4 p.m. (Saturdays ■excepted), and Dishes made in the School are for sale at cost price after 3 o’clock. Lessons given in all branches of Cookery. HIGH CLASS COOKERY PRACTICE KITCHEN. A high class “ Practice Kitchen ” is now open where a Student may go through a course of Practice in Cookery, for which a fee of 4^ will be charged, but this is reduced to jfz 3s• if the Student has attended the “scullery” course at ioa 6d. The course in this Practice Kitchen occupies 2 weeks from 10 to 4 <Iaily. A limited number of daily Pupils are now admitted in the Practice Kitchen at a fee of joa 6d. for each day’s instruction to new Pupils, and 6a 6d. to old Pupils. An Appointment must be made for single lessons. Pupils are requested each to bring a large bib-apron with them, marked with their names.National Training School for Cookery. 461 Monday T uesday Wednesday Thursday Friday FIRST WEEK. ... Bread and Cakes, Vegetables and Savouries. ... Soups and Purges, Braising and Stewing. ... Entries and Sauces, Vegetables and Savouries. ... Entries and Sauces, Braising and Stewing. ... Soups and Purges, Bread and Cakes. SECOND WEEK. Monday T uesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Omelets and Souffles and Pastry. Puddings and Fish. J ellies and Creams, Pastry. Jellies and Creams, Omelets and Souffides. Fish and Puddings. Single Lessons in the Newest Entries, &c., 10s. 6d. the Day PLAIN COOKERY PRACTICE KITCHEN. The fee for joining this class is ^3 3s., unless the Student has already been through the Scullery Class at ioa 6d., in which case it is reduced to f2 2s. The instruction in this kitchen comprises both French and English Plain Cookery. A single day’s in- struction in this kitchen can be attended at a charge of 6$. 6d. for new Pupils and 4*. 6d. for old Pupils. FIRST WEEK. Monday ... Milk Soup, Irish Stew, Beefsteak Pie, Treacle Pudding, Semolina Pudding, Toad in the Hole, Potatoes, a Vegetable, Pig’s Head, Pot au Feu, Rock Cakes, Gingerbread, Herring, Toast Sandwich, Beef Teas (various), Gruel, Stewed Brisket of Beef, Lemon Pudding, Spotted Dick, Ragout of Rabbit. Tuesday ... Pot au Feu, Brisket of Beef, Fish (boiled), Sea Pie, Lentil Soup, Batter Pudding, Apple Pudding, Potatoes and Vegetables, Mutton Broth, Fish Cakes, Blancmange, Lemonade, etc., Fig Pudding, etc.. Pickle for Meat, Silver Side of Beef to Salt.462 National Training School for Cookery. Wednesday Mutton Broth, Semolina Soup, Fried Fish, Roast Rabbit, Brazilian Stew, Baked Apple Dumplings, Haricot Beans, Potatoes, Sausage Rolls, Milk Jelly from Cowheel, Pickle for Vegetables, Plum Cake, Scones, Oatmeal Biscuits. Thursday Haricot Pur£e, Baked Fish, Ox-cheek Stew, Potatoes, Rice Cutlets, Shin of Beef Stewed, Suet Pudding, Roly Poly Pudding, Breast of Veal, Roast Joint, Pork Pie, Brawn, Marmalade Pudding, Seed Cake, Milk Biscuits, Boudinettes, Tripe and Onions. Friday ... Render down and clariiv 61bs. of Fat, Maccaroni Soup, Hash, Mince, Rissoles, Shepherd's Pie, Potatoes. Lentils, Bread Pudding, Gateau of Cold Meat, Arrowroot, Short-bread, Dough Cake, Maccaroni Cheese, Swiss Roll, Tea Cakes, etc. SECOND WEEK. Monday ... Cabbage Soup, Rabbit Pie, Bullock’s Heart, Potatoes, Suet Pudding, Treacle and Plum Puddings, Rice Pudding, Gingerbread, Yorkshire Pudding, Marmalade Pudding, Rice Buns, Rock Cakes, Mulliga- tawny Soup, Lemon Sponge, Cornflour Cake, Meat Pudding. Tuesday... Spring Soup Maigre, Bread, A Pudding, Mulligatawny Soup, Fish (fried), Tripe, Maccaroni Sweet, Apple Amber Pudding, Potatoes, Vegetables, Curried Rabbit, Sheep’s Head (boiled), Kedgeree, Plum Pudding, Tea Cakes, Apple Jelly, Buns. Wednesday Fish Cakes, Boiled Rabbit, Liver and Bacon, Pea Soup, Haricot Mutton, Potatoes, Cornish Pasties, Stewed Knuckle of Veal, Veal Tea, A Pudding, Prepare Giblets, Arrowroot Pudding. Thursday Stewed Knuckle of Veal, Parsley and Butter Sauce, Giblet Pie, Scotch Scallops, Goblet Pie, Boiled Pork and Peas Pudding, Pancakes, Bread and Butter Pudding, Potatoes, Fritters, Brandy Wafers, Barley Water, Shrewsbury Cakes, Potted Fish, Ox-foot Jelly. Friday ... Fish Soup, 6ibs. of Fat to clarify, Fish (fried), Boil the Silver Side, Dumplings, Jelly, Ragout of Mutton, Potato Salad, Curried Eggs, Poached Eggs, Biscuits, Apple Charlotte, Toast and Eggs, Porridge, Hominy Blancmange, Savoury Custard, Eggs sur le plat. Single Recipes are sold at the School at id. each. Lists on application, price id. A certain number of marks, proportionate to merit, will be awarded daily for the execution of each day’s work of the practice in Cookery and Scullery.National Training School for Cookery. 463 Post-Office Orders and Cheques should be made payable to the Lady Superintendent of the School, Mrs. Charles Clarke, at the South Kensington Post Office, Exhibition Road, S.W. Subscriptions and Donations to be paid to Miss Incledon, Secretary, at the National Training School. TERMS ON WHICH THE COMMITTEE WILL OPEN COUNTRY AND SUBURBAN CLASSES:- The Lady Superintendent is authorised by the Committee to open Demonstration Cookery Classes where she can hire a suit- able room, and dispose of forty tickets at 4/6 each (transferable), for a course of Ten Lessons in Plain Cookery, and thirty tickets at 1 os. 6d. each (transferable), for a course of Ten Lessons in High Class Cookery. For the Plain Cookery, after the sale of 40 Tickets at 4s. 6d, school children and poor children are admitted at ij. the Ten Lessons, or 2d. each Lesson. The Committee will then undertake the entire arrangement of the Classes, supplying all the stoves, utensils, and materials need- ful, and bearing all other needful outlay. Single Admission at the door, is. 6d. to the High Class Cookery, and 6d. to the Plain Cookery; School Children, Boys or Girls, admitted at a considerable reduction. Classes for Practice in Cookery to follow these Demonstration Lessons will be formed (for not less than Ten Pupils) on the following terms:— For a course of Ten Lessons in Plain Cookery, or in High Class Cookery, of three hours each lesson, £ 1 is. Each pupil to find her own materials. The School cannot be held responsible for the Teachers unless sent direct from this School, or specially recommended by the Lady Superintendent in writing.464 National Training School for Cookery. Conditions on which the Committee will send out Staff Teachers to give Instruction in Cookery, in localities where the Local Committee prefer to take the Money RISK AND THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE CLASSES ON THEM- SELVES :— Terms, for Weekly Engagements, with board and lodging, <£3 3s., and travelling expenses extra (Second Class). Not more than Twelve Demonstration or Practice Lessons of two hours each are to be given in one week. A suitable room with the requisite seats, tables, stoves, utensils, fuel and provisions, together with a Kitchen-maid, must be pro- vided by those engaging the Teacher. The arrangements of the Lessons, the charges for admission, inserting reports and notices in the local papers, will be left entirely in their hands. Terms for engagements for one day only (for distances beyond 20 miles of London), for One Lesson in the day (whether High Class or Plain Cookery) 155-.; and 21s. for two Lessons, one High Class and one Plain Cookery. Travelling expenses extra (Second Class). In London and its immediate neighbourhood, 10s. 6d. a Lesson. Hire of stove and utensils for course of Ten Demonstration Lessons, f2 2s. and carriage. For Elementary Schools and Training Colleges, the fee is 7s. 6d. a Lesson.National Training School for Cookery. 465 RULES FOR THE GUIDANCE of LOCAL COMMITTEES AND TEACHERS SENT BY SOUTH KENSINGTON 1. The hours of teaching are limited to twenty-four in a week when held in the same town, but when held in different localities the hours of Lessons are limited to 20, to be distributed by arrangement between the Local Committee and the Teacher. 2. The Teacher is to be provided with a Kitchen-maid, who is to be her servant, and for whose work the Teacher is responsible. 3. The Teacher’s time (within the above limits) and services are to be at the disposal of the Local Committee, and any cause of complaint on either side should be referred to the Lady Superintendent. No private Lessons are to be given by the Teacher. 4. The Teacher will give in writing her orders for materials, and some of the Local Committee are expected to sign these orders and see that they are executed, the Teacher’s responsibility ceasing when these orders are given. 5. No testimonials or gratuities, monetary or otherwise, are to be received by Teachers, nor any commission or bonus, either directly or indirectly, from Tradesmen or Committees. 6. The Teacher is to reside within reasonable distance of her place of work, and not to make any charges for travelling, except when sent out in the service of the Local Committee. 7. The Teacher is to order nothing except on forms authorised or counter- signed by the Committee or their representative. 8. To prevent confusion, the Teachers are to cook by the recipes printed and provided by the National Training School for Cookery. 9. Courses of systematic Lessons have been prepared for the Teachers ; these, modified to suit the requirements of particular localities, are recom- mended as models for Local Committees. 10. The number of Pupils at a Demonstration Lesson is practically unlimited ; the number of Pupils at a Practice Lesson is limited to ten. 11. The sale of the dishes cooked should be under the management of the Local Committee. 12. It must be always borne in mind that the sale of food and the taking of orders for dishes must be subordinate to the great object of the School, i.e., the giving a thorough and efficient practical Lesson. 13. The Teacher is allowed Second Class Railway Fare, and the actual expenses incurred in the journey upon her certifying to them. 14. The Teacher to be allowed her dinner at the Local School, on the days when she teaches there. For further particulars, apply to the Lady Superintendent at the School. G GUSE LIEBIG “COMPANY’S ji EXTRACT OF BEEF For Improved and Economical Cookery. PERFECT PURITY ABSOLUTELY GUARANTEED. The “ Company’s ” Extract makes the finest, purest, & strongest Beef Tea. It is the finest Meat flavour- ing stock for Soups, Sauces, Made Dishes, &c.; and is a Medical Comfort of the highest efficiency, rendering all other food more digestible and nourishing. Sole Manufactory: Fray Bentos, South America, where Forty Pounds of Prime Lean Beef are used to make One Pound of this Extract. The value of this Beef in England would be about Thirty Shillings. See SIGNATURE (as above) IN BLUE INK across the Label on each Jar of the genuine Extract. COOKERY BOOKS (Indispensable for Ladies) sent FREE on application to LIEBIG’S EXTRACT OF MEAT Co., ltd., 9 Fenchurch Avenue, E.C. HamINDEX.INDEX. A-la-mode Beef—Stews A-la-mode Beef—Soups. Alexandra pudding—Puddings ... Amber pudding—Puddings Anchovy sauce—Fish.., Apple amber pudding—Puddings — charlotte—Puddings — jelly—Jellies — turnovers and dumplings of short crust—Pastry — water—Sick-room cookery Apples and tapioca—Puddings ... Arrowroot, cup of—Sick-room cookery — pudding — Sick - room cookery Aspic jelly from calf’s feet—Jellies Australian meat— — mince . — mulligatawny “ Pie — rissoles — sausage rolls — savoury hash Bacon, rolls of—Entrees Baked batter pudding with fruit —Puddings — fish in vinegar — lemon pudding—Puddings mackerel or herring—Fish — plum pudding—Puddings — potatoes—Vegetables — stuffed haddock—Fish ... Baking meat PAGE Barley water (clear)—Sick-room cookery 428 — water (thick)—Sick-room cookery 429 Batter pudding with fruit, baked —Puddings 335 — pudding, boiled—Puddings 316 — pudding, in a cup—Pud- dings 320 Beans, haricot—Vegetables 262 Beef, a-la-mode—Stews ' 86 — — —Soups 190 —; braised fillets of—Entrees... 60 — essence—Sick-room cookery -423 — olives—Entrees 73 — steak pie 123 — steak pudding 125 — — — Pastry 284 — stewed brisket of—Stews ... 92 tea, Liebig’s quick—Sick- room cookery 442 — — Sick-room cookery 440, 441 Biscuits, milk 412 — oatmeal 413 Blanc-mange—Puddings 315 Boiled batter—Puddings 316 — cauliflower—Vegetables ... 257 — cod—Fish 228 — custard—Creams 369 — fish 239 — fowl 162 — lemon pudding—Puddings 332 — mutton and parsley sauce —Sick-room cookery ... 438 — new potatoes—Vegetables 246 PAGE 86 190 313 307 223 347 296 367 287 430 330 425 425 355 5i 40 44 46 42 49 68 335 236 294 232 349 249 234 22469 Index. Boiled pig’s head, salted — potatoes—Vegetables — rice — rice—Tripe — sheep’s head — tripe, with milk and onions —Tripe... — turbot—Fish Boiling meat Bonne femme—Soups Brain cakes Braised fillet of veal — fillet of beef—Entrees — liver Bran tea—Sick-room cookery ... Brawn—boiled pig’s head Brazilian stew—Stews Bread Bread and butter pudding—Pud- dings — pudding—Puddings — sauce—Roast fowl Breast, or neck of lamb stewed— Stews Brisket of beef (cold) stewed— Stews Broth—Mutton — mutton—Sick-room cook- ery — mutton—Sick-room cook- ery — from sheep’s head—Sheep’s head Brown bread pudding—Puddings — sauce—Sauces — stock Browned sheep’s head Brussels sprouts—Vegetables Bubble and squeak Bullock’s heart, stuffed and roasted Butter, clarifying—Frying Butter sauce (melted)—Sauces ... Buns — rice Cabbage, pickled PAGE Cabbage soup—Soups 197 Cabinet pudding—Puddings 292 — — (cold)—Puddings 33 7 Cakes—Brain 153 — corn-flour cake 403 — dough cake 404 — German pound cake 395 — plain cake 397 — plum cake 401 — rock 406 — seed cake 399 — Shrewsbury 405 — Sultana cake 393 Calf’s head, rolled and stuffed ... 158 Carrots—Vegetables 265 Carrots and turnips—Vegetables 255 Carrot pudding—Puddings 311 Cauliflower au gratin—Vegetables 258 — boiled—Vegetables 257 Charlotte russe—Creams 373 Chaudfroid of chicken—Entrees . 64 Cheese with maccaroni 387 —■ souffle—Souffles 378 — straws 389 Chicken broth—Sick-room cook- ery 422 — chaudfroid of—Entrees ... 64 — croquettes or rissoles of— Entrees 79 — fricassee of—Entrees 69 — panada—Sick-room cook- ery 421 Clarifying butter—Frying 25 — dripping—Frying 25 — fat—Frying 25 Cleaning a close kitchen range ... 15 — a copper stewpan 16 —- a gas stove 15 — an enamelled stewpan 16 — an iron saucepan 16 — an open kitchen range ... 13 Clear soup—Soups 170 Cod, boiled—Fish 228 Cold cabinet pudding—Puddings 337 — chicken, fricassee of — Entrees 71 PAGE 134 245 84 103 137 IO4 211 20 176 153 I09 60 155 435 135 88 419 346 324 169 98 92 T47 436 438 137 309 268 207 139 254 146 hi 25 274 408 410 391 :Index. 47 o Cold meat—curry — fried rissoles — — goblet pie .. — — hashed meat — — meat fritters — — minced meat — — shepherd’s pie Cooked meat—curry — — fried rissoles — — goblet pie — — hashed meat — — meat fritters — — minced meat — — shepherd’s pie ... Corn-flour cake—Cakes — pudding—Puddings — — in a cup—Puddings... Cornish pasties Cow-heel milk jelly—Jellies — stewed, with onion sauce— Jellies Cream of barley — Sick-room cookery Creams—charlotte russe — Strawberry cream — vanilla cream Croquettes of potato — Vege- tables — or rissoles of chicken— Entrees Cup of arrowroot — Sick-room cookery Curate’s pudding—Puddings Curried rabbit or veal—Entrees.. Curry, of cold meat — of tripe—Tripe — (Indian)—Entrees Custard, boiled—Creams — pudding, baked—Puddings — sauce—Souffles Cutlets, lobster—Fish — mutton—Entrees — veal—Entrees Dough cake—Cakes Dripping, clarifying—Frying PAGE Drinks — Apple water — Sick- room cookery 430 — barley water (clear)—Sick- room cookery 428 — barley water (thick)—Sick- room cookery 429 — bran tea --Sick-room cook- ery 435 — lemonade — Sick-room cookery 431 — rice water — Sick - room cookery 427 — toast and water — Sick- room cookery 432 — treacle posset— Sick-room cookery 434 — white wine whey—Sick- room cookery 434 Dutch sauce—Sauces 272 Dumplings—Norfolk 350 Eels, stewed—Fish 241 Egg sauce—Boiled fowl 164 — — Fish 216 Entrees—beef olives 73 — braised fillets of beef 60 — chaudfroid of chicken 64 — croquettes or rissoles of chicken 79 — curried rabbit or veal .....> 82 — curry (Indian) 53 — fricassee of chicken 69 — fricassee of cold chicken... 71 — haricot mutton 77 — Irish stew 75 — mutton cutlets 62 — quenelles of veal 57 — veal cutlets 66 Essence of beef — Sick - room cookery... 423 Fat, clarifying—Frying..25 Fig pudding—Puddings 341 Fillet of veal, braised 109 Fillets of beef, braised—Entrees. 60 PAGE 33 37 3i 26 29 39 35 33 37 3i 26 29 39 35 403 321 318 115 361 362 424 373 37i 369 252 79 425 323 82 33 102 53 369 3GI 376 224 62 66 404 25Index. 471 Fillets of sole a la maitre d’hotel —Fish — of sole, fried—Fish Fire, to lay a Fish, baked in vinegar — baked mackerel or herring — baked stuffed haddock ... — boiled — boiled cod — boiled turbot — fillets of sole a la maitre d’hotel — fish pudding — fried fillets of sole — fried plaice — grilled salmon — kedgeree — lobster cutlets — sole au gratin — stewed eels — whitebait Flaky crust (for pies and tarts)— Pastry Fowl, boiled — for boiling, trussing a — for roasting, trussing a — roasted Fricassee of chicken—Entrees ... — of cold chicken—Entrees Fried fillets of sole—Fish — plaice—Fish — potato-chips—Vegetables.. — rissoles of cold meat — slices of potato—Vege- tables Fruit tart of short crust—Pastry Frying Genoese pastry—Pastry German pound-cake—Cakes — sauce—Puddings Giblet soup—Soups Ginger-bread nuts — pudding—Puddings Goblet pie—Cooked meat Grilled salmon—Fish PAGE Grilled Steak 141 Gruel—Sick-room cookery 433 Haddock, baked and stuffed— Fish ... 234 Haricot beans—Vegetables 262 — mutton—Entrees 77 — — 157 — puree—Soups 204 Hash, savoury, of Australian meat 49 Hashed meat—Cooked meat 26 Herring or mackerel, baked—Fish 232 Iceland moss jelly—Jellies 359 Irish stew—Entrees, 75 — — Stews 90 JAM-roly-poly—Pastry 284 Jam tart—Pastry 291 Jellies—Apple jelly 367 — aspic jelly from calf’s feet 355 — Iceland moss jelly 359 — milk jelly from cow-heel... 361 — ox-foot jelly 363 — porter jelly 365 — wine jelly from calf’s feet 352 Kedgeree—Fish 243 Knuckle of veal stewed—Stews... 100 Lamb, stewed, breast or neck of — Stews 98 Lemon pudding, baked — Pud- dings 294 — pudding, boiled—Puddings 332 Lemonade—Sick-room cookery... 431 Lentil puree—Soups 202 Lentils, stewed—Vegetables 266 Liver and bacon 151 — braised 155 Liebig’s quick beef-tea — Sick- room cookery 442 List of cleaning materials and utensils required in a kitchen 12 PAGE 220 222 14 236 232 234 239 228 211 220 214 222 237 23O 243 224 218 24I 217 290 l62 102 l66 166 69 71 222 237 250 37 251 278 24 280 395 310 183 411 345 3i 230472 Index. List of utensils required for a high- class cookery demon- stration lesson (local classes) — utensils required for a plain class cookery demon- stration lesson (local classes) — utensils required in a kit- chen Lobster cutlets—Fish — sauce—Fish Maccaroni in milk—Maccaroni — with cheese — — soup—Soups — stewed in stock Mackerel or herring, baked—Fish Marmalade pudding—Puddings Mashed potatoes—Vegetables ... — turnips—Vegetables Mayonnaise—Sauces Meat, Australian. — — mince — — mulligatawny — — pie — — rissoles — — sausage rolls ... — — savoury hash... — baking — boiling — fritters—Cooked meat — hashed—Cooked meat — minced—Cooked meat ... — pie, of Australian meat ... — pie, beef-stealc — pudding, beef-steak — re-cooked—Curry — re-cooked—Fried rissoles • — re-cooked—Goblet pie ... — re-cooked—Hashed meat . — re-cooked—Meat fritters . — re-cooked—Minced meat . — re-cooked—Shepherd’s pie — roasting Melted butter sauce—Sauces PAGE Milk biscuits 412 — jelly from cow - heel— Jellies 361 — rolls 416 — soup—Soups 195 Mince, of Australian meat 51 Minced meat—Cooked meat 39 Mock-turtle—Soups 185 Mutton, boiled, with parsley sauce —Sick-room cookery ... 438 — broth 147 — — Sick-room cookery 436 — — Sick-room cookery 438 — cutlets—Entrees 62 — haricot---Entrees 77 — haricot 157 Mulligatawny, of Australian meat 40 New potatoes boiled—Vege- tables 246 Norfolk dumplings 351 Oatmeal biscuits 413 Omelette, savoury 385 — sweet 383 — soufflee—souffles 382 Onion sauce—Boiled pig’s head . 134 Ox-cheek soup—Stews 97 — stewed—Stews 96 Ox-foot jelly—Jellies 363 Ox-tail soup—Soups 191 Oyster sauce—Fish 229 Pancakes—Puddings 298 Pastry—beef-steak pie 123 — beef-steak pudding 125, 284 — Cornish pasties 115 — flaky crusts, for pies and tarts 290 — fruit tart of short crust ... 278 — Genoese pastry 280 — patty cases of puff paste ... 277 — pie—Australian meat 44 — pork pie 130 — puff paste 271; — rabbit pie 121 — rissoles of Australian meat 54 PAGE 5 7 9 224 212 386 386 200 388 232 343 248 263 270 5i 40 44 46 42 49 22 20 29 26 39 44 123 125 33 37 3i 26 29 39 35 17 274Index. 473 PAGE PAGE Pastry—rissoles of chicken—Entrees 79 Potatoes, steamed—Vegetables... 246 — roly-poly pudding 284 Pot-au-feu, or soup—Soups 188 — rough puff paste, for pies, Pudding, fish—Fish 214 tarts, and tartlets 282 — roly poly—Pastry 284 — sausage rolls 117 Puddings—Alexandra pudding... 313 — — rolls of Australian — amber pudding 307 meat 46 — apple amber pudding 347 — short crust 278 — — charlotte 296 — — crust for apple turn- — arrowroot — Sick - room overs and dumplings 287 cookery 425 — tartlets of puff paste 276 — baked batter and fruit 335 — veal and ham pie 119 baked lemon ... .r 2QA Patty cases of puff paste—Pastry 277 — baked plum pudding 349 Pea soup—Soups 198 . — batter pudding in a cup ... 320 Peas—Vegetables 26l i beef-steak 125 Pickle for meat 392 — beef-steak—Pastry 284 Pickled cabbage 391 — blanc-mange 315 Pie—Australian meat 44 — boiled batter 316 — beef steak 123 — — lemon pudding 332 — pork 130 — bread and butter pudding . 346 — sea 132 — bread-pudding 324 — shepherd’s, of cold meat ... 35 — brown bread pudding 309 — rabbit 121 — cabinet pudding 292 — veal and ham .. 119 — carrot pudding 311 Pig’s head, salted and boiled 134 — cold cabinet pudding 337 — fry—Poor man’s goose 128 — corn-flour pudding 321 Piquante sauce—Sauces 271 — corn-flour pudding in a cup 318 — — Sheep’s trotters... 160 — curate’s pudding 323 Plaice, fried—Fish 237 — custard pudding 3° 1 Plain cake—Cakes 397 — fig pudding 34i Plum cake—Cakes 401 — ginger pudding 345 — pudding,boiled—Puddings 302,328 — marmalade pudding 343 — puddings, baked—Puddings 349 — pancakes 298 Poor man’s goose—Pig’s fry ...... 128 — plum pudding 302 Pork pie 130 — — puddings 328 Porter jelly—Jellies 365 — rice pudding 300 Potato chips, fried—Vegetables... 250 — rice pudding (with egg) ... 322 — croquettes—Vegetables 252 — semolina pudding 334 — fried slices of—Vegetables 251 — suet pudding 339 — souffle —Souffles 380 — tapioca and apples 330 Potatoes, baked—Vegetables 249 — treacle pudding 326 — boiled—Vegetables 245 — Vennoise pudding 305 — mashed—Vegetables 248 — Yorkshire pudding 340 — new, boiled—Vegetables... 246 Puff paste—Pastry 275 — puree of—Soups 178 — rough, for pies, tarts, — saute—Vegetables 249 and tartlets—Pastry 2S2474 Index. Puree, haricot—Soups — lentil—Soups — potato—Soups — vegetable—Soups Quenelles of veal—Entrees ... Rabbit, curry of—Entrees — pie — stewed—Stews — stuffed and roasted Regulations, rules, and fees, of the National Training School for Cookery Rice, boiled — — Tripe — buns — water—Sick-room cookery — pudding (with egg)— Puddings — pudding Rissoles, fried—Cooked meat ... — of Australian meat — or croquettes of chicken— Entrees Roast rabbit stuffed Roasting meat Rock cakes Rolls of bacon—Entrees Roly-poly pudding—Pastry Rough puff paste, for pies, tarts, and tartlets—Pastry Salmon, grilled—Fish Sauce, anchovy—Fish — bread... — brown—Sauces — custard—Soufflets — Dutch—Sauces — egg — egg—Fish.... — German—Puddings — lobster—Fish — mayonnaise—Sauces — melted butter—Sauces ... — oyster—Fish Sauce, piquante—Sauces 271 — piquante—Sheep’s trotters 160 — Tartare—Fish 231 — tomato—Sauces 273 — white—Sheep’s trotters ... 160 — white—Sauces 267 — wine—Soufflets 376 — wine or brandy—Puddings 304 Sausage rolls . 117 — of Australian meat 42 Saute potatoes—Vegetables 249 Savoury custard—Clear soup 172 — — Sick-room cookery ... 443 — hash of Australian meat... 49 — omelet 385 Scones 414 Sea pie 132 Seed cake—Cakes 399 Semolina pudding—Puddings . . 334 — soup—Soups 194 Sheep’s head, boiled 137 — — broth 137 — — browned 139 — trotters 160 Shepherd’s pie—Cooked meat ... 35 Short-bread 415 Short crust—Pastry 278 — for apple dumplings and turnovers—Pastry 287 Sick-room cookery—apple water 430 — — arrowroot pudding 425 — — barley water (clear) 428 — — barley water (thick) 429 — — beef essence 423 — — — tea 440, 441 — — boiled mutton, with parsley sauce 438 bran tea ... 435 chicken panada ... 421 cream of barley ... 424 cup of arrowroot ... 425 gruel 433 lemonade 431 Liebeg’s quick beef tea 442 — mutton broth 436, 438 PAGE 204 202 178 205 57 82 121 94 149 444 84 103 410 427 322 300 37 46 79 149 17 406 68 284 282 230 223 169 268 376 272 146 216 3IG 212 270 274 229475 Index. PAGE Sick-room cookery—rice water .. 427 — — savoury custard ... 443 — — toast and water ... 432 — — treacle posset 434 — — white wine whey ... 434 Sole k la maitre d’hotel, fillets of —Fish 220 — au gratin—Fish 218 — fried fillets of—Fish 222 Souffle cheese—Souffles 378 Souffles—omelette soufflee 382 — potato—Souffles 380 ■— vanilla—Souffles 374 Soup—ox- cheek—Stews 97 Soups—bonne femme soup 176 — cabbage soup 197 — clear soup 170 — giblet soup 183 — haricot puree 204 — lentil puree 202 — maccaroni soup 200 — milk soup 195 — mock turtle soup 185 — mulligatawny soup—Aus- tralian meat 40 — ox-tail soup 191 — pea soup 198 — pot-au-feu 188 — puree of potatoes 178 — semolina soup 194 — spring vegetable soup 180 — tapioca cream 174 — vegetable puree 205 Spinach—Vegetables 259 Spring vegetable soup—Soups ... 180 Strawberry cream—Creams 37i Steak, grilled 141 — stewed 143 Steamed potatoes—Vegetables ... 246 Stock, brown 207 — made with vegetables 209 — white 207 Stew, Irish—Entrees 75 Stewed beef or ox-cheek, with vegetables — Pot - au- feu 188 Stewed breast or neck of lamb— Stews 98 — cow-heel, with onion sauce —Jellies 362 — eels—Fish 241 — knuckle of veal—Stews... 100 — lentils—Vegetables 266 — maccaroni 388 — ox-cheek—Stews 96 — ox-foot—Jellies 366 — steak 143 — rabbit—Stews 94 Stews—a-la-mode beef 86 — Brazilian stew 88 — Irish stew 90 — stewed breast or neck of lamb 98 — — brisket of beef (cold) 92 — — knuckle of veal ... 100 — — ox-cheek 96 — — rabbit 94 Suet crust—Pastry 284 — pudding—Puddings 339 Sultana cake—Cakes 393 Tapioca and apples—Puddings 330 — cream—Soups 174 Tart, jam—Pastry 291 — fruit—Pastry 287 — — — 278 Tartare sauce—Fish 231 Tartlets of puff paste—Pastry 276 Toad-in-the-hole 145 Toast and water — Sick - room cookery 432 Tomato sauce—Sauces 273 Treacle posset—Sick-room cook- ery 435 — pudding—Puddings 326 Tripe a la Coutance—Tripe 106 — boiled, with milk and onions 104 — curried tripe 102 Trussing a fowl for boiling 162 — a fowl for roasting 166 Turbot, boiled—Fish 211 Turnips and carrots—Vegetables 25547 6 Index. PAGE PAGE Turnips, mashed—Vegetables ... 263 Vegetable puree, haricot beans ... 262 Turnovers, apple—Pastry 287 — mashed potatoes 248 — — turnips 263 Vanilla cream—Creams 369 — peas 26l — souffle —Souffles 374 — potato croquettes 252 Veal, curry of—Entrees 82 — saute potatoes 249 — cutlets—Entrees 66 — spinach 259 — fillet of, braised 109 — steamed potatoes 246 — and ham pie 119 — stewed lentils 266 — stewed knuckle of—Stews 100 Vennoise pudding—Puddings ... 305 — quenelles of—Entries 57 Vegetable puree—Soups 205 White sauce—Sauces 267 — stock 209 — — sheep’s trotters 160 — baked potatoes 249 — stock 183 — boiled cauliflower 257 — wine whey — Sick - room — — new potatoes 246 cookery 434 — — potatoes 245 Whitebait—Fish 217 — brussels sprouts 254 Wine jelly from calf’s feet—Jellies 352 — carrots 265 — or brandy sauce—Puddings 304 — — and turnips 255 — sauce—Soufflets 376 — cauliflower au gratin 258 — fried potato chips 250 Yorkshire pudding—Puddings 340 — — slices of potato 251 — tea cakes 417 THE END. Richard Clay &> Sons, Limited, London Bungay.I FLOR-ADOR 6 Grays Inn Road, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C. FLOR-ADOR FIRST-AND-FOREMOST. BROWN A POLSON’S CORN FLOUR IS DISTINGUISHED FOR UNIFORMLY SUPERIOR QUALITY. That BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR possesses very valuable qualities as a food for all classes, at all periods of life except earliest infancy, has been attested by eminent dietetic authorities, as well as by universal public experience during over thirty years. Interested attempts to set aside these facts in favour of other foods can only appeal to ignorance and prejudice, and it remains true that no other kind of food can serve the special purposes of Corn Flour. IS LIGHT, PALATABLE, DIGESTIBLE, AND WHOLESOME. FOR DUMPLINGS, FOR SOUPS, PORRIDGE, A v. OMELETTES, DELICIOUSX. PUDDINGS PRODUCT OF PANCAKES THE WHEAT BERRY. BLANCMANGES, CREAMS, INDEFINITE VARIETY \ BISCUITS, PURPOSES. X\ BUNS, &C. IS SUITED TO ROBUST AND INVALID ALIKE. FLOR-ADOR.—Ask your grocer for a free sample ; or the Florador Food Co. will supply packets post free for lOd. in stamps. FLOR-ADOR Supersedes Corn Flour, Arrow- root, Sago, Tapioca, &c., which possess no flesh forming constituents whatever. I I AN ARTICLE OF DIET AS WELL AS A LUXURY, FOR THE HEALTHY. AN INVALUABLE ADJUNCT TO THE SICK ROOM AND NURSERY. Is carefully packed in Is. tins, and in smaller packets containing 1 lb., ^ lb. and ^ lb. Each packet contains full directions and recipes for use. The Lancet and the British Medical Journal say :— “ This is an excellent preparation’’ Purchasers are requested to see I that, they get “FLOR-ADOR ’’ and l not imitation thereof, inferior quali-1 ties being often substituted for the sake of extra profit Depot: The Florador Food Co.,AN ENTIRELY NEW AND ORIGINAL COOKERY BOOK. HILDA’S ‘WHERE IS IT?’ OF RECIPES. Containing many old CAPE, INDIAN, and MALAY DISHES, and PRESERVES ; also directions for Polishing Furniture, Cleaning Silk, &c.; and a Collection of Home Remedies in Case of Sickness. By Hildagonda J. Duckitt. Interleaved with White Paper for adding Recipes. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. The Morning Post says:—“ ‘Hilda’s “Where is it?” of Recipes’ may be recom" mended as containing clear directions for the preparation of many delicacies for the table. The recipes include Cape, Indian and Malay dishes and preserves, some of which are as good as they are rare. Space has also been found for other matters besides eatables, and the possessors of this small volume will find themselves pro- vided with directions for polishing furniture, cleaning materials, and administering homely remedies to the sick.” The Princess says :—“A book of novel arrangement. . . . There are instructions in this book that, I suppose, it would be a thousand chances one would ever meet else- where, some of them as old as a century, and it should certainly be added to the collections of every housewife.” The Saturday Review says :—“ A capital book ... a most interesting collec- tion. . . . much is new, and what is not is often newly put.” Vanity Fair says :—“ The author lives at the Cape, and has collected from various sources—the majority of them the archives of her own family—valuable old recipes, owned and practised by the Malay, Indian, and French cooks, whom it was the custom of Cape families of Dutch descent to employ. Attached to the book is a pencil, intended to do duty on the blank pages left for the purpose of memoi'anda writing, where recipes from other sources may be committed to paper.” FOURTH EDITION. THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY AND BILLS OF FARE. By Major L***** Large Crown 8vo, 8s. “ The author has done his work in the proper way. He begins on the right prin- ciple by giving a gross of bills of fare. They supply an aim, and his introductions and general rules are written with an energy which can hardly fail to inspire the indis- pensable enthusiasm. . . . The great merit of Major L ’s recipes is, that among the five hundred and fifty-four that he gives, a very large proportion are really possible for small households.”—Pali Mall Gazette. “ The author has arranged his volume with evident care, and a number of menus suitable for each month of the year are given in French and English. They are dis- tinguished by variety and economy, and are manifestly the compilation of one who knows well how to appreciate a good dinner well served. . . . The volume cannot fail to prove of service to all who care to live well, and at the same time to study reasonable economy.”—Society. “This is a volume which will be found particularly useful during the approaching hunting season, and to those who are in the habit of giving hunt breakfasts or similar parties it will be invaluable. The author deals with the subject of cookery in a lucid and exhaustive manner, a special feature in the publication being a collection of 1 bills of fare,’ which comprises twelve for each month of the year. ‘ Wines and their service ’ are also dealt with.”—Sportsman. “ ‘ The Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery and Bills of Fare,’ by Major L„ is evi- dently the production of a man who has studied the gastronomic art with great interest. The book opens with a number of menus in French and in English, twelve for each month, and then goes on to give, shortly and clearly, the recipes for cooking the dishes which have been set out; and it leaves nothing to be desired. It is hand- somely got up, and beyond doubt will have a considerable popularity.”—Scotsman. “ Contains a large number of excellent menus and a good deal of valuable advice.”— Athenceum. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited.Jjft ADAMS & SON, MANUFACTURING AND FURNISHING IRONMONGERS, Electro-Platers and Cutlers, By Appointment to Her Majesty the Queen and H,R H. the Prince of Wales ©*7, HAYMARKBT, S."W. ’ Stockpot. Bainmarie. Stewpan. BEST HOUSE IN THE TRADE FOR KITCHEN REQUISITES, MOULDS, and all the latest PARISIAN NOVELTIES and SPECIALITIES for the CUISINE, Special attention being given to this Department. DEPOT FOR CAPTAIN WARREN’S PATENT COOKING POTS. IO PER CENT. DISCOUNT ALLOWED FOR CASH. Illustrated. Catalogue forwarded on application. 57, HAVMARKET, S.W. Odourless, Smokeless, Portable, Safe, and Cleanly. RIPPINGILLE’S ■ ® PATENT. PRIZE MEDAL. OIL-COOKING OTOVES. Can be lighted or extinguished in a moment. Superior to all others for Roasting, Baking, Boiling, Stewing, Steaming, Frying, Toasting, &C., in the most economical and successful manner. They are fitted with the MOST POWERFUL burners ever made. Three meals a day can he cooked at the cost of One Penny. SAVE KEEPING A FIRE IN HOT WEATHER. Have received the Highest Awards wherever Exhibited. THE BEST OIL STOVES IN THE WORLD Of all Respectable Ironmongers. Ask for RlPPINGILLE'S PATENT STOVES, and see the name in full is upon the same. Do NOT be deceived by worthless imitations. Full Illustrated Catalogue and name of nearest Agent, together with a Guide to Cookery, will be sent free on application to the Sole Manufacturers, THE ALBION LAMP CO., BIRMINGHAM.LONDON : CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited. NINTH THOUSAND. BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES. By R. O. C., Compiler of the “ Official Handbook for the National Training School for Cookery.” Crown 8vo, Is. From “THE TIMES.” “The success which has attended the publication of the * Official Handbook of the National Training School for Cookery ’—a collection of recipes, indeed, rather than a handbook in the accepted sense of the title—has encouraged the compiler, R. O. C., to issue a shilling pamphlet entitled ‘ Breakfast and Savoury Dishes,’ for the prepar- ation of which forty-three recipes have been drawn up with careful detail. Loose phraseology of the old cookery books, such as take a ‘ little ’ or a ‘ pinch ’ora' spoon- ful,’ and so forth, is discarded, and precise terms and quantities are used instead. At the head of each recipe the quantity of ingredients required for carrying out the recipe, and the cost thereof, are given. Of the forty-three recipes three are allotted to the preparation of potables in ordinary use at the British breakfast-table. A warn- ing note is sounded against allowing tea to stand longer than five minutes, after which the decoction becomes charged with an unwholesome amount of tannin. Deliberate operations are insisted upon for the making of good coffee, and the use and re-use of cocoa-nibs are expounded. Then follow ten methods of making breads, scones, galettes, muffins, crumpets, oat-cakes, short-bread, milk-rolls, and Yorkshire tea-cakes. Somersetshire girdle (or gridiron) cake might very well have been added to this list. A daintier and not more costly way of cooking oeufs au beurre noir is by treating each egg separately, and serving it in a little pipkin or cocote ; and a few more than three recipes for various savoury omelettes might have been given in place of those for potted meats, which do not recommend themselves to small households while endless tins of potted meats are procurable at any grocer’s. Then useful recipes for cooking fish—including a succulent arrangement of lobster au gratin (at a cost of 3s. 9d.)— follow next; and the series concludes with recipes for grilled and devilled chicken or turkey, and for pigeon pie, in the completion of which the necessity of following the sound practice of pouring flavoursome gravy through the hole in the crust of the baked pie is enforced. “This little book, as will be seen, is intended for the ready and managing house- keeper. But a Vatel may not find many of its suggestions beneath his notice.” THE ROYAL CONFECTIONER: English and Foreign. A Practical Treatise. By C. E. FRANC ATELLL With numerous Illustrations. Sixth Thousand. Crown 8vo, 5s. BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. By Major L . Crown 8vo, 4s. SEVENTH THOUSAND. HOW TO COOK FISH. A Series of Lessons in Cookery, from the Official Handbook to the National Training School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by “ R. 0. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, 3<i. THIRD THOUSAND. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. From the Official Handbook to the National School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by “ R. 0. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, Qd. THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. By H. F. WICKEN. Crown 8vo, 2s.ADVERTISEMENTS. v “ SANITARY ” "HSr. “SEAMLESS STEEL” Saucepans, Stewpans, SAUTE PAHS, BAIN-MARIE PAHS, STOCK POTS, Sc., Sc. SILVER MEDAL, HEALTHERIES„ PLANISHED AND BURNISHED. No Verdigris. No Enamel Arsenic. !» -:}j No Copper Contamination. III1 * 'I'jiBM g 1 : 1 No Brazing mm l j " Coated with Pure Refined Tin. IMPROVED STOCKPOT. Which entirely prevents the waste and smell caused by the contents of pot run- ning down the outside on to the hot-plate. STOCKPOT. These Goods possess all the Advantages, but none of the Drawbacks, of Copper or Enamel Same Thickness and Weight as the Ordinary Copper Pans. USED AT THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY AND REFRESHMENT DEPARTMENTS OF THE HEALTH, INVENTIONS, COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITIONS. These Utensils are thickly coated inside and out with Pure Tin. They can easily be re-tinned, but the bodies, being bright steel, are equally healthy, cleanly, and uninjurious to food, thus rendering them far superior to copper. Their strength and thickness, and being Seamless Steel, make them practically indestructible and not liable to burn their contents. Their cost, being considerably less than wrought-iron, and about one-third the price of copper, they should be used in every Household, Cooking School, Restaurant, Club, &c. Made also to nest, for shipping, and with loose handles for camp use. Sole Manufacturers and Patentees ( Wholesale only), B, PERKINS & SON, Cannon St. Buildings, E.C., & Bermondsey St., S.E., London, To be obtained of all Ironmongers, Stores, &c. bADVERTISEMENTS. VI CHAPMAN & HALL’S PUBLICATIONS. CHARLES DICKENS’S WORKS. The Illustrated Library Edition* With all the Original Illustrations, in Thirty Vols., demy 8vo, ^15. uThe Charles Dickens Edition.” Complete, with Life by John FORSTER. Twenty-Three Vols., crown 8vo, £4 3^, with Illustrations. The Household Edition* Complete, with Life by John Forster. Twenty-two Vols., crown 4to, cloth, ^4 8j. 6d. The Popular Library Edition. Complete, in Thirty Vols., post 8vo, £6. The Crown Edition. Containing all the Original Illustrations by ‘‘Phiz,” Seymour, George Cruikshank, George Cattermole, Marcus Stone, S. L. Fildes, Maclise, R.A., Stansfield, Landseer, Leech, &c. To be completed in Seventeen Vols. Crown 8vo, price 5$. each. The Cabinet Edition. Completed in Thirty-two Vols., small feap. 8vo, Marble Paper Sides. Cloth Backs, with uncut edges, price is. 6d. each. THOMAS CARLYLE’S WORKS. The Ashburton Edition. An entirely New Edition, handsomely printed, containing all the Portraits and Illustrations, in Seventeen Vols., demy 8vo, &y. each. Library Edition. Handsomely printed in Thirty-four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth, £i$ 3$. People’s Edition. Thirty-seven Vols., small crown 8vo, 37s.; separate vols., is. each. GEORGE MEREDITH’S WORKS. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. each. DIANA OF THE CROSSWAYS. EVAN HARRINGTON. THE ORDEAL OF RICHARD FEVERED. THE ADVENTURES OF HARRY RICHMOND. SANDRA BELLONI. | VITTORIA. RHODA FLEMING. BEAUCHAMP'S CAREER. | THE EGOIST. THE SHAVING OF SHAGPAT y and FARINA. ANTHONY TROLLOPE’S WORKS. The Chronicles of Barsetshire. A Uniform Edition, in Eight Vols., large crown 8vo, handsomely printed, each vol. containing Frontispiece. 6s. each. The Warden and Barchester Towers. Two Vols. Dr. Thorne. | Framley Parsonage. The Small House at Arlington. Two Vols* Last Chronicle of Barset. Two Vols. CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED, LONDON.ADVERTISEMENTS. vii INDEX TO ADVERTISERS IN THE TENTH EDITION OF THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. PAGE Adams & Son—“Kitchen Requisites” 3 Brown & Green—“Kitcheners” . Facing Third Page of Cover Brown & Polson—“Corn Flour ” i Borwick & Sons—“ Baking Powder ” Second Page of Cover Chapman & Hall—“Publishers” 2, 4, 6 Florador 1 Gridley & Co.—“ Isinglassine” Facing Third Page of Cover Harris, S. & H.—“ Ebonite Waterproof Blacking ” Facing Title Page Keen, Robinson & Co.—“ Mustard” Facing Second Page of Cover Liebig’s Extract of Meat Co.—“ Extract of Meat” Facing Index Lovelock’s, J. F.—“ Mincing and Sausage Making Machines” 7 Marshall, James—“Farola” 8 Mellin, G.—“ Infants’ Food” . ...» Second Page of Cover Menier, E.—“ Chocolate Menier ” Third Page of Cover Perkins, B. & Son—“ Sanitary Seamless Steel Kitchen Requisites” .5 Rippingille’s—“Oil Cooking Stoves” 3 LOVELOCK’S fwurofotr Sausage lit a lung, (Smeral Hunting marines, antr Coffee Util I s FOR DOMESTIC AND OTHER USE. Are Unrivalled for Simplicity, Efficiency, and Superior Finish, For promoting Domestic Economy they are invaluable in every household. Purchasers are cautioned against Imitations. TO BE OBTAINED OF ALL IRONMONGERS. F. LOVELOCK., BROADWAY WORKS, Mare Street, Hackney, London.ADVERTISEMENTS. Vlll TWICE AWARDED GOLD MEDALS AT INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS. Supplied to 1b.1R.1b. tbe prince of Males. BEAU-IDEAL FARINACEOUS FOOD Marshall’s Farola “ I shall recommend FAROLA in practice, as it appears to be an ideal form of giving farinaceous food with milk. ”—A London Physician. REGISTERED “FAROLA is immeasurably superior to such substances as arrowroot, corn flour, sago, &c. With milk it forms really exquisite “puddings, and in the nursery dietary it will prone a valuable variety which children will take with avidity. Liverpool Medico-Chirurgical Journal. ‘ ‘ Marlborough House, “Pall Mall, S.W. “Colonel Clarke, Private Secretary to the Princess of Wales, writes to inform Mr. James Marshall, in reply to his letter to the Comp- troller of the Household, that FAROLA has been ordered from the Italian Warehouses for use in the Household.” Send Post Card for Descriptive Book with Recipes (Post Free). JAMES MARSHALL!22 Melphi rerrace>GLASG0W' 43 King William St., London Bridge, LONDON, E.C.BROWN & GREEN’S KITCHENERS. Gold and Silver Medals for Smoke, consuming Grates & Kitcheners. WITH OVEN AND SIDE BOILER WITH TWO OVENS & BOILER. r" >•*'; affv . Prices and Illustrations on application. These KITCHENERS roast in front, and are unequalled for economy and convenience. The Patent Self-Acting Dampers SAVE COAL and Ventilate the Kitchener. BROWN <S GREEN'S NEW PORTABLE GEM STOVES, Convertible Into Open or Close Fires, BURN A SURPRISINGLY SMALL QUANTITY OF FUEL- They are“reeo#nminded for small families, and as an auxiliary for lar^e restablishments. Highly approved. Bake well. Require no brick- work. Cure '’sTftoky .chimneys. /Iftebal at tbe Ibcaltberies, 1884. BROWN & GREEN, Ltd., 69 & 71 Finsbury Pavement, E.O, SAVES TIME, TROUBLE AND EXPENSE! ^ aSixpennyTacket wiilmakeIquartof HRILIIMTJELLY. NO BOILING OR SOAKING REOUIREPlO BEHAD OFfltLGROCERS ISINGLASSINE is confidently recommended for preparing all .-Table Jellies, Blanc Mange, Creams, .'etc., on accounkpf its purity, simplicity in use and Scpnomy. It contains most of the properties of the purest,;and most expensive Isinglass, and will be found to answer the same’ purpose at about one-third the cost. It does not require soaking to prepare it, the simple addition of boiling water rendering it ready foj; use in the various ways mentioned in the directions inclosed in each packet.FOB BREAKFAST LUNCHEON AND SUPPER AVERAGE DAILY Paris Exhibition—GRAND PRIX—HIGHEST HONOUR. , gli :&C> The Largest Factory in the W WORKS : NOISEL-SUR M ARNE, PARIS. SOLD RETAIL EVERYWHERE. -vii