6 visit the University in order to acquire that Itnowledge which is essential to the profession which I had embraced. I arrived at the metropolis in August, 1787, a few days after the celebrated Louis, perpetual Secretary of the Academy, had an- nounced that a public examination would be held for the selection of a certain number of auxiliary surgeons for the navy, for the de- partment of Brest. This proposition was so consonant with my inclinatians for travelling, that although I might be obliged to aban- don my original design, I did not hesitate to become" a candidate, and had the good fortune to obtain one of the proposed appoint- ments. I immediately set out for Brest, where, after further ex- amination, I was to receive my rank. The officer of the auxiliary medical staff of the navy also accompanied me. I was appointed chief surgeon of a King's vessel at the age of 21 years, contrary to custom, as I had never before been in one. Soon after, I em- barked as first surgeon on board the frigate Vigilante, commanded by the Chevalier Sagues de Tours. While waiting for the period of our departure, I passed the winter in giving lectures on Anato- my and Surgery to the young students. I visited the prison of the galley-slaves, the arsenals, the magazines and ship-yards; and I turned my attention to every thing that related to navigation and to the duties that would devolve on me on ship-board. During the voyage, which lasted six months, young Larrey kept a journal, in which he noted down every thing of interest which occurred—applying himself in fact to the investigation of matters, which at first view appear to have no connection with his profes- sion. Yet we shall see in the end that in his case, as in that of most other distinguished men, such a spirit has its reward. Du- ring his passage to Newfoundland, he made many observations in natural history—on the prevailing winds and the diseases of sea- men. He wrote a memoir on sea-sickness, prescribing a n ode of cure. We may mention as a curiosity, that his theory of sea-sick- ness is, that it consists in an oscillation of the particles of the brain, produced by the unaccustomed motion of the vessel. The oscilla- tion will be relieved by having the attention directed steadily to some distant and fixed body. The commotion of the brain, without this, is transmitted to other organs, producing general derangement of the