u inotism on the fibrous and osseous systems, on moveable and pre- ternatural cartilages of the joints, on cerebral epilepsy, on ampu- tation, d:c.; all of which are copiously illustrated by numerous and interesting cases. From September, 1806, to October, 1807, the time was taken up with the campaigns of Prussia and Poland, when the celebra- ted battle of Jena decided the fate of Prussia, and made Saxony an ally of the French nation. The treatment of asphyxia from mem- phitic gases—a memoir on the dry gangrene produced by frost, or the gangrene from congelation, with a memoir on the Plica Po- lonica, were some of the results of these military excursions. His return from Berlin to Paris is narrated by hira in the following words : " I passed through Witteraberg, Leipsic and Jena, and tar- ried a few days in these two last cities, celebrated for their univer- sities. At Leipsic, I beheld with veneration the amphitheatre in which the immortal Leibnitz delivered his excellent lectures. Oth- er eminent men now adorn the university of this city. From Leip- sic I repaired to Jena, and visited the hospitals, in which there were still some soldiers who had been wounded in the battle near that city. I was much gratified with the distinguished attention with which I was received by the Professors of Jena. They press- ed me to remain some time among them. While there, I received the degree of Doctor in Physic from the University, after having defended a thesis and submitted to the usual examination. I ar- rived in Paris on the last of October, and immediately resumed my duties at the hospital of the guard. The Emperor had repaired to Milan to be crowned King of Italy. During this journey, his ma- jesty conferred upon me the honorary title of " knight of the iron crown,''and I received the insignia of this order on the first of Jan- uary, 1808." On the 11th of February, 1808, he set out on his journey to Spain—the first of the two campaigns carried on in that country. A memoir on traumatic gangrene—one on the colic of Uladrid, which he proved to originate in the poisonous drugging of the wines of the country, especially l^y lead and the more narcotic plants— with a memoir on a particular malignant fever, were some of the results of this campaign. The second Spanish campaign was shorty