15 and terminated after immense exposures of the army and of Barron Larrey. The hitter was near the gates of death, and a long time passed ere his constitution recovered from the effects of these hard- ships. In April, however, of 1809, we find him, in his own words, without waiting the entire recovery of his health from the shocks he had sustained in Spain, setting out to join the imperial guard, then in Bavaria, on the campaign of Austria. We will not attempt even to enumerate all the various memoirs and essays which were the result of this campaign. His favorite theory of primary amputation was here again put fully to the test, to the number it is said of sixty cases in one day, by his own hand. Was ever man better situated to try the effect of his theory in prac tice ? His knife, it is said, dropped from his hand from sheer ex- haustion. Whole days and nights were spent by this indefatigable surgeon, in performing with his own hand the most delicate and important surgical operations. The meanest soldier and the great- est general shared alike his heroic services. Like an angel of mercy, his untiring feet passed from tent to tent, from one cot of straw to another, and soothed the wounded and dying soldier. Some of the most touching scenes of sympathy and gratitude are recorded as taking place in these trying circumstances. At one mo- ment called to a mean hovel, to staunch the life-blood of a distin- guished leader, fallen—and the next bearing off in triumph scores of the poor soldiers in his flying ambulances, and saving them from inevitable death—how cool must have been the judgment, and great the self-control, can be more easily imagined than described. The can;paign of Austria, in which Vienna was taken, and peace dictated from the royal palace of Schoenbrun, was however but the prelude to that ever memorable drama in the world's history, the campaign of Russia, with its terrible retreat from Moscow: " Moscow! thou limit of his long career, For which rude Charles had wept his frozen tear To see, in vain—he saw thee—how ! with spira And palace to one common fire; To this, the soldier lent his kindling match, To this, the peasant gave his cottage thatch, To this, the merchant flung his hoarded store. The prince his hall—and Moscow was no more."—Byron.