5 bled him to approach the very cannon's mouth and rescue the dy- ing soldier under the very fire of the enemy, instead of waiting twenty-four or thirty-six hours, when life would have been lost by fatal ha^niniorrhage. His superior mode of dressing wounds on the field of battle, and thus protecting the soldier from the dangers attending undressed wounds. His invention of improved instru- ments for the taking up of arteries, and of many other improve- ments in the theory and practice of Surgery, entitle him to a notice at our hands. One more reason why I have selected Larrey as the subject of my introductory lecture. Our country has been and will probably again be at war. The fame of Palo Alto, Resaca de la Palma, Monterey and Buena Vista—with that of Vera Cruz, Chapultepec, Cherubusco and Mexico—are now chronicled with the battles of New Orleans, Georgetown, Princeton and Bunker Hill. The storj' of our prowess has swept across the broad Atlan- tic, and Europe is forced to acknowledge our equality to her in the stern virtues of war. This being the case, America calls upon the medical profession to sustain in science her renown in arms. She calls upon us as physicians to fly to the rescue, and show the world by our skill and humanity, that medicine in our land of free insti- tutions keeps pace with the progress of the age. Some of those who hear me, may and probably will be called to serve their country, by binding up the wounds of her soldiers, and saving from an untimely faie the brave defenders of her glory. Let your knowledge and acquirements be fully equal to the task— let the alumni of Geneva Medical College not be wanting in the hour of trial: but let them stand on the field of battle, like Miner- va when she sprang from the head of Jove, " armed at all points." About the age of thirteen, (says Barron Larrey in his memoirs,) I left Beaudean near Bagneres, Adour, Upper Pyrennes, the place of my nativity, to repair to Toulouse with a view of studying physic under the direction of my uncle, Alexis Larrey, first Surgeon and Physician to the General Hospital of that city, and corresponding associate of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris. After hav- ing finished my elementary studies in the College Esquile, and in the schools of medicine and surgery of Toulouse, I determined to