IS a pretty good supply. After this, however, even that ceased, and the leather of their very shoes was eaten. In the campaign of Aus- tria, indeed, he speaks highly of the soup made of horse-flesh, sea- soned with gunpowder, as a diet for soldiers. The year 1813 was occupied with the terrible campaigns, or rather retreats and massacres, of the great army in Saxony. At one battle, that of Leipsic, he records no less than six thousand wounded; and to increase the dreadful mortality, an epidemic broke out which followed them to France. After the abdication of the Emperor at Fontainbleu, Barron Lar- rey proceeded with the rest of the great officers of state to Paris, and was appointed immediately by the King to the same posts of honor which he held under the empire. In the short but decisive campaign which terminated in the battle of Waterloo, the French surgeons had of course but little opportunity for the observation of surgical diseases ; the English surgeons, however, profited by the rich harvest of wounds inflicted on this field of blood. Larrey, from this time until his appointment as surgeon-in-chief to the army in Algiers by Louis Phillippe, enjoyed that ease which was necessary, after so long and arduous service in the cause of humanity. Surrounded by the savans and literati of the academy of France—honored by his King with the appointment to several distinguished posts—and respected as the A'eteran of an hundred fights—he now found time to write out more fully several of his memoirs, deliver lectures on clinical and theoretical surgery; and, in fact, to prepare for the profession his matured views on many important topics in surgery. His commission creating him surgeon-in-chief of the army in Algiers, pleased and gratified him much in his old days—producing upon his faculties the effect which the distant sound of the trumpet does upon the old war-horse. He rose up, and threw off" for a time the lethargy of increasing years, and prepared to enter the field again with the enthusiasm of his youthful days. He visited the scene of action, and once more was himself seeing and overseemg everything in the medica'l^department of what he denominated the young army. But the day of his strength had gone by; the un-