9 so simple and useful an appendage to his writing-desk. Even the most trifling occurrences become not unfrequently in after life, mat- ters of great moment to the writer and to the world. >• In October, 1778, Dr. Larrey returned to Paris, where he la- bored in the hospitals and at the public lectures of Desault and other distino-uished men of the time—of whom he ever retained a great respect and admiration. From Desault he learned to dress wounds with solutions of acetate of lead, instead of spirits, as was the custom at the time ; that extensive gun-shot wounds were fre- quently followed by hernia of the muscles ; that when the tissues were much contused by a bullet, it was better to freshen the wound by the excision of the contusf d part, changing it in this way from a contused to a simple incised wound. He also obtained hints from Sabatier and Billard on the subject of primary amputations, of which in after life he made extensive use, and brought the practice to the present advanced condition. In 1792, he was appointed assistant surgeon to the army of the Rhine—previous to which he had succeeded in forming among his compeers a medical society for the discussion of professional sub- jects. The activity, efficiency and general intelligence of the young surgeon soon became known to the army; and after the first battle his ingenuity contrived for the relief of the wounded and dying sol- dier his celebrated Ambulance, or flying hospital. The wounded were, at that time, left on the field of battle not unfrequently twen- ty-four or thirty-six hours, before the army hospitals, which accord- ing to rule were placed at least a league behind the army, could be made available for their relief. Thousands in this way perish- ed for the want of some timely relief, or from the night air and the inclemency of the season. To remedy these evils, he invented w^t he termed his Ambulances, which could be sent immediately after the attacking squadrons, and carry off" the wounded almost as fast as they fell—permitting the surgeons to stop the ha5morrhage from the main arteries, and in some cases" dressing the wounds or amputating the limbs under the very fire of the enemy. These hospitals he was enabled to bring to great perfection in future cam- paigns. He very soon rose from assistant to be senior assistant surgeon to the army, and chief director of the medical staff" and of 2