10 the hospital. In the midst of all this, he was experimenting on amputated limbs with galvanism, hoping to find in this a powerful therapeutic agent in the cure of disease. He reported to the Royal Academy of Surgery an improved curved needle, with a lancet shaped point, for sewing up wounds ; also an improved aneurismal needle. He here collected materials for an essay on gun-shot wounds, in which the young surgeon boldly combatted the prevail- ing opinions of the profession, and advanced others both new and original, which have since been confirmed by many of the best minds in medicine. He examined into the causes of death in in- dividuals supposed to have been killed by the wind of a ball; and proved satisfactorily that there is always sufficient lesion of the in- ternal organs to account for death, without appealing to the fanci- ful effects of the " wind of a ball." The bulletin of General Beau- harnais to the convention bears honorable testimony to the devotion of Surgeon Larrey and his colleagues, to the duties of their profes- sion in this cafnpaign—it is as follows : " Among those who so brilliantly served the republic, were Ad- jutant-Generals Bailly, Abbatouchi, of the light artillery, and Sur- geon-Major Larrey and his companions of the flying ambulances, •whose indefatigable attentions to the wounded have contributed to the cause of humanity and of their country." So active and daring was young Larrey, that he was at one time near falling into the hands of the enemy, and escaped only with a severe wound of the leg. The utility and importance of his ambulances having been stri- kingly displayed in the army of the Rhine, Larrey Avas sent to Pa- ris by the government in order to complete the organization of similar ones for the other armies of the Republic. Immediately after his arrival in Paris, he received his brevet commission as chief Surgeon to the army of Corsica, which he shortly afterwards joined. In the mean time, however, he was united to his wife. " During my short stay in the metropolis, (says he,) I fulfilled my former vows, and was united to Miss Charlotte Elizabeth, daughter ofM. Laville Leroux, minister of finance under Louis XVI. I then departed for Toulon, not without regretting the loss of my eituation in the army of the Rhine, which I had hoped to resume."