4 the peculiarity of genius to detect its similitude in others, and we all know that tho " eagle eye" of Napoleon saw at a glance the superior talents of even the lowest soldier about him. It had also the higher power of fascinating and drawing around him every thing liiie brilliancy in intellectual capacity. If there ever was a mental magnet which irresistibly attracted to itself the brighter spirits among men, it was the gigantic mind of the child of Destiny. Larrey was not one of the least brilliant of that splendid galaxy which revolved around Napoleon Bonaparte. Born of respectable parents, Larrey rose from a simple student of medicine to be the friend and councillor of Kings and Emperors, and to practice his profession with honor and renown in the four quarters of the globe. Military Surgery was more particularly benefitted by his untir- ing genius; but like Hippocrates, Sydenham, Rush, Pare, and all other great minds in our profession, nothing that affected the health, physically, intellectually or morally, of his fellow man, escaped his observation, or was considered beneath his persevering attention. Taking in fact the motto of Terence, where he says— Homo sum: huiiiani nihil me alienum puto.—Haul. 11-24. Hence we find him in the midst of war and bloodshed, examining the chemical composition of the wines of Spain, whose deleterious ingredients had poisoned the soldiers and produced the colic of Madrid; in Poland investigating the character and causes of the national disease termed the Plica Polonica; in Egypt, the Plague, the climate, the water, «fec. &c.; in Italy, the epidemic diseases of cattle, which destroyed whole hecatombs of useful animals, and produced disease and famine among the inhabitants. These and many other subjects were made special objects of investigation, which resulted in the forms of memoirs and bulletins, in sound ad- vice and Avise directions to the suffering citizens of these different countries. It is not only, however, for these reasons that I have selected him as the subject of my remarks on this occasion. His duties as Surgeon-in-Chief were peculiarly practical, for with him there was no time to speculate—hence in this portion of his profession we find him eminently distinguished. His Ambulances, which ena-