8 ing his propensity, and of fixing upon that profession for which he was designed by nature, and in which she would always acconipa- ny the exertions of his industry and ambition. For example, should he record in his diary the eloquent speeches, the pertinent anec- dotes and sallies of wit of the companies he went into, let him be educated for the pulpit, the bar, or the senate. Should he record facts and opinions that are connected with natural history and phi- losophy, let him be devoted to the study of medicine. Should he fill his diary with details of battles and sieges, and the exploits of bravery and heroism, let a commission be procured for him in the army or navy. Should he record in his journal instances of great wealth being suddenly or gradually acquired by extraordinary skill in business, or economy in living, let him be put in a counting- house. Should he dwell with delight upon the dimensions, elegance and conveniences of public or private buildings, let him be made an architect. Should the quality or the fashion of the dresses of the persons with whom he associated arrest his principal attention, let a thimble be put upon his finger and a pair of shears into his hands. And lastly—should the number or quality of the dishes upon tables to which he had been invited, fill the pages of his jour- nal, let him be sent into a kitchen to learn a business which I shall not name. It is because the propensities of boys are not discov- ered or attended to, in early life, by this or some other means, that we see so many men in situations for which they are not qualified, who would have been respectable or useful in the professions or trades for which they were born. They form the same disease in society which is known among physicians by the name of error loci. They are like red blood in serous vessels, bile in the stom- ach, and aliment in the windpipe. * * * " In making the keeping of the diary a part of the education, or a test of the genius of a boy, great care should be taken to charge him against recording a single anecdote or reflection that, if pub- lished, would give pain to a human creature. Persons who fill their diaries with such matter, may be compared to the animals that feed upon carrion. They are unfit for pure and healthy so- ciety." I need add nothing more in favor of every young man k«eping