11 On his arrival at Toulon, he was introduced to the officers of the military staff, among whom was General Bonaparte, commander of the artillery. During some months' detention at this place, and with the army of the maratime Alps, he was engaged in inspecting the medical departments of the armies, and making observations on drowning, and the best mode of treatment for the Asphyxia pro- duced by immersion in water. On his return to Paris in 1796, he was engaged with the further improvements of his ambulances for use in the suburbs of the city, in the domestic disturbances which characterized the period. During the same year, he was ordered asain to Toulon, with the view of joining an expedition which was however finally indefinitely postponed. The winter of this year was spent, at the solicitations of many of the naval and military surgeons, in lectures on anatomy and theoretical and clinical sur- gery. Each lecture on physiological anatomy was followed by corresponding experiments on living animals, and all the dead sub- jects of the naval and military hospitals, were reserved for dissec- tions and anatomical preparations. With all this, he found time to write out observations on malignant tubercle, carbuncle, and seve- ral similar subjects. He was again ordered by the minister of war to repair to Paris, and occupy one of the professorships in the sur- gical department of the military school established at Val de Grace ; where, in addition to the usual theoretical courses of instruction, large and valuable public clinics were held, for the benefit of young men designed for the army or navy. In this school were collected men of the highest reputation in our profession, and names which will long retain their places in the annals of surgery. In the following spring, that of 1797, before he had finished his course of lectures in the military school, he was called to superin- tend the armies occupied beyond the Alps, in the Italian cam- paigns. Here agaifa, like his great friend Napoleon, we find him visiting the cities, naval and military depots, and superintending every thing that belonged to his department of the service. Here also his ambulances were brought to the highest perfection, and their utility fully tested. This service occupied him until the spring of 179S, when in the company of Napoleon he started on the bril- liant but disastrous campaigns of Egypt and Syria.