17 and soon fell on the road side, never more to rise. Another re- markable fact was, that those who incautiously approached the camp-fires from being insensible to heat, would burn themselves ; and even when they did not absolutely hurn their limbs, mortifica- tion would rapidly supervene as the consequence of the thawing, and amputation or death, or both, vmst speedily follow. Young men suffered more than the middle aged, and died in greater num- bers. Barron Larrey saved his life by constant activity and avoid- ing the fire. A return to good food and comfortable quarters, as was the case occasionally in their long and dreary retreat, was fol- lowed by a meningeal fever of a catarrhal natm-e. The contrac- tion of the intestinal tube, consequent to long starvation, requires a slow and gradual resumption of food, to accustom the system to the stimulus of an ordinary quantity of aliment, otherwise fever and delirium set in, and terminates rapidly in death. This was the melancholy fate of many brave men who had borne the whole of the privations of the retreat, and were congratulating themselves on their safe deliverance from famine and death. A striking example of the estimation that the surgeon-inrchief was held in by the army, occurred during the retreat. At the pas- sage of the Berizina, whose waters were but partially frozen over, and whose bi-idges had been broken down by the enemy and tem- porary ones erected by the army, Barron Larrey had crossed the only remaining bridge in order to procure some surgical instru- ments necessary to an operation—and had returned, when the ene- my pressed so hard upon the despairing thousands that a general rush was made for the bridge, while some even attempted crossing on the ice, but failed and were lost. At this juncture our surgeon, borne along by the crowd, was in imminent danger of destruction ; when some of the soldiers recognizing him, lifted him on to their shoulders and so passed him along, until safely landed, to his great joy, upon the bridge. This evidence of attachment on the part of his soldiers, said he, "fully rewarded me for the whole of my pri- vations, as well as the total loss of my baggage.'' The best food which the wretched men could obtain was soup, made of horse-flesh—of which, until the horses all died, they had