Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 14 in a case of ilens^ when the in^esta are retarded for many days together at a particular point, it Is nothing remarkable that the portion of the intestine below this should contract up- on itself. While performing a series of experiments upon frogs some short time ago, with the view of illustrating how far the contractility of the muscular fibre is dependent upon the central organs of the nervous system, I was often struck with the rapidity with which inflammation of the muscular tissue destroyed its contractility, so that it refused to contract even upon the application of galvanism. This is in perfect accord- ance with Dr Abercrombie's theory of the pathology of ileus. lY,-^Permanent Flexion of the Fhigers from Shortening and Thickening' of the Palmar Aponeurosis. iNamuscular and aged male subject in the Dissecting-Rooms, the little and ring-fingers in one hand were firmly and perma- nently bent ; and the same fingers in the opposite hand were also flexed, but in a much less degree. On removing the in- teguments of the palm of the hand, this was found to depend upon very great thickening and shortening of the palmar apo- neurosis. The aponeurosis in the fingers most affected extend- ed beyond the metacarpal phalangean articulations, towards the distal end of the ^xoyiimsi] phalanges. On cutting through the palmar aponeurosis we observed a circumstance which has not been alluded to by Dupuytren,* and on account of which I have thought the case worthy of notice. We foundthatthering-finger could only be extended very par- tially, and the little finger still less, after ihe aponeurosis and ten- dons had been freely divided. All the articulations of the affected fingers were perfectly healthy, and the only explanation of the continued flexion that we could give, was, that theligamentscon- necting the articulations, from their being long constrained to one position, had accommodated themselves to their altered circum- stances. We have seen the same thing twice in the knee-joint. In two cases of disease of the hip-joint, the knee-joint of the same side presented every appearance of having been also af- fected, but on dissecting them we found that all the textures en- tering into the formation of the joint were perfectly sound, and the only cause which we could discover for the bent position of the limb was a shortening of those ligaments which are relax- ed in flexion. If an operation had been attempted in this case, the division of the palmar aponeurosis would have produced little imme- diate benefit, and might have prejudiced the minds of some " Lemons Orales, Tome i.