Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 4 the largest of these bodies in the case before us. It was of the size of a hazel-nut, and composed of concentric laminae, sur- rounding a calcareous central portion. It must occur but very rarely to find these bodies of so large a size ; and in so many of the splanchnic serous membranes in the same subject. Andral states that he has never seen them larger than a bean. Laennec * seems to have satisfied himself, in examining a tunica vaginalis, containing some of these bodies in different stages of their growth, and where the circumstances were high- ly favourable for ascertaining the nature of their formation, that they were first deposited behind the serous membranes; that, as they increased in size, they pushed it before them, so as to be- come completely enveloped by it, and only retained in their place by a thin band of serous membrane. This band at last gives way, and they fall loose into the interior of the serous sac. Andral, while he believes that the accidental cartilages found within the original serous membranes of the body are formed in the manner described by Laennec, yet supposes that those found in the interior of cysts developed in other parts of the body may be formed in the fluid effused from the inner surface of the sac. Dupuytrenf and Raspailj have both affirmed that the small cartilaginous bodies which occur occasionally in considerable numbers, and which have been most frequently found in a cyst connected with the annular ligament of the wrist-joint are entozoa. § The former rested his belief upon some sup- posed spontaneous movements which he observed in them ; the latter draws his arguments from their structure and chemical composition, in which he supposes they resemble the eggs of an animal, which would form a new genus between the Cysti- cercns and Coenurus. Bosc and Dumeril, to whom Dupuytren submitted specimens of these bodies for examination, both came, however, to a different conclusion. In dissecting a subject lately, we found a fibro-calcareous tumour about the size of a hazel nut, surrounded by a serous membrane, lying loose in the lower part of the pelvis, and with- in the sac of the peritoneum, which evidently owed its origin to a different source from those which we have mentioned above. " Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, Tome iv. •f- Cruvcilhier, Oper. cit. Tome i. p. 324. J Organic Cliemistry, translated by Dr Henderson, p. 314. § Tlie liistory and description of these cysts point tliem out to be the hiirna viv- comi surrounding the flexor tendons, as they pass below the annular ligament of the wrist, distended with fluid and these cartilaginous bodies. The appearance of the double cyst is produced by the annular ligament being stretched across tiic distend- ed bursa.