Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 15 ao-ainst performing the operation in the cases favourable for it. It is probable that continued extension would have the effect of restoring the ligaments to their former state. I would not wish it to be inferred that the muscles had not also accommodated themselves to the circumstances under which they had been for a long time placed, and that they would not also have strongly resisted for a time any efforts made to move the articular surfaces upon each other. Upon the extent of the muscular shortening in these cases we had no data to of- fer any opinion, as it would have been necessary to have first cut through the ligaments of the joint to have enabled us to ascertain this. The previous history of this man could not be obtained. Since the above description was written, I have perused a short but excellent paper on the permanent flexion of the fingers by M. G. Geyrand, Surgeon to the THotel-Dieu d'Aix, contained in the 4th fasciculus of the Memoires de TAca- demie Royale de Medecine for 1838. M. Geyrand there gives a very minute and detailed account of a dissection of a case of this kind, where the palmar aponeurosis and flexor tendons were perfectly natural, and where the fingers were held in flexion by fibrous chords, which he considered to be of new formation, running from the palmar aponeurosis to be inserted into the fibrous sheaths surroundino- the flexor tendons. Some of these chords were attached to the first phalanx, others went on to the second, and others again passed between one phalanx and another. All these bands were composed of parallel fibres. In the fresh state they were very resisting, altogether inex- tensible, and had the whiteness and aspect of ligaments. M. Gey- rand argues from the facts ascertained in this dissection, from the appearances observed in two other cases which he had an opportunity of examining on the living body, and also from the account given by Dupuytren himself, of the different steps of one of his operations where he must have cut one of these fibrous bands, running upon the anterior surface of the first phalanx, that Dupuytren must have misunderstood the cause of the retraction of the fingers, when he attributed it to a crisp- ing up of the palmar aponenrosis. But as Sanson, in his re- port upon this memoir of M. Geyrand states, it is quite im- possible that Dupuytren could have made any mistake of this kind in the case which he dissected after death, and which first unfolded to him the true nature of the disease, so that we must conclude that the developement of these fibrous bands may produce permanent retraction of the fingers in the same man- ner as the shortening and thickening of the palmar aponeuro-