8 Dr John Reld's Anatomical Observations. of Cloquet. Of course the only conclusion that can be drawn from these discordant statements is, that the obturator arises very frequently from the external iliac, in common with the epi- gastric. The epigastric has been observed by Monro, Hesselbach, Lauth, and Velpeau, to arise from the obturator or some of the branches of the internal iliac, so that it might in some cases, such as in that detailed by Hesselbach, be carried to the inner side of the sac in femoral hernia. Some, as Cruveilhier, * maintain, that these descriptions of the origin of the epigastric from the ob- turator ought to be considered as nothing more than the branch ■which generally passes between those arteries increased beyond the usual size; but Velpeau *}- seems quite convinced of the ac- curacy of one at least of these descriptions from actual ob- servation. J3r Barclay was the first to dissect and prepare a case of femoral hernia, in which the obturator artery passed along the pubic side of the neck of the sac. This preparation, unique at the time, was delineated in Sir A. Cooper's work on Femoral Hernia, and is now in the Barclayian part of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Mr Wardrop shortly after this described a similar case, also referred to by Sir A. Cooper in the same work. Dr Monro has seen the ar- tery passing on the pubic side of the neck of the sac three times. Dr Knox is in possession of a very beautiful preparation of this kind, in which the artery was firmly tied to the outer edge of Gimbernat's ligament. | Similar cases in which the obtura- tor artery took that course have been seen by Cloquet and Dr Thomson. Brechet § also refers, to one. I have no doubt, indeed I know, that similar cases have been seen by others; but the extreme rarity of the occurrence having passed over, these are not now made public. Allen Burns relates a case in which there were two femoral her- niae on the same side ; one protruding into the femoral ring, the other into the sheath of the vein. If the obturator artery had arisen in this case from the epigastric, it would in all probability have surrounded the greater part of the neck of the sac of the smaller hernia, protruding into the sheath of the vein. \\ Mr » Anatomic Descriptive, Tome iii. •j- Oper. cit. X This preparation is delineated and described in a very excellent probationary essay on the Obturator Artery, by Dr H. B. Macfarlane. § These sur la Hemic Femorale, p. 133. i • i t j| The protrusion of a hernia into the proper sheath of the vessels, by which 1 mean the tendinous septa passing backwards from the posterior surface of Pouparts ligament, and upper part of the iliac portion of ihc fascia lata betweecn the artery and vein, and also on the pubic side of the vein, to the pubic portion of the fascui lata., must be an exceedingly rare occurrence, since this is not only prevented by the close manner in which the sheath envelopes the vessels, but more particularly by the reflexion of the/flsdrt transversalis from Poupart's ligament upon the anterior sur-