6 Dr John Reid^s Anatomical Observations. In 1831,1 witnessed a somewhat similar case in the practice of Dupuy tren at the Hotel-Dieu. The patient was a female about 60 years of age, who was brought into the hospital with well marked symptoms of strangulated femoral hernia. All the urgent symp- toms ceased after the operation, and she seemed to he going on well for a fortnight, when she was seized with severe diarrhoea, which soon carried her off. On dissection, abroad sheet of effused blood was observed through the peritoneum^ evidently placed between that membrane and the fascia transversalis of Sir A. Cooper, extending from the lower part of the pelvis^ up near- ly to the umbilicus. This was found to have taken place from the obturator artery, which in this case had arisen from the external iliac by a trunk common to it with the epigastric, and had nearly surrounded the neck of the sac, and which, during the operation, had been completely cut across. Dupuy- tren remarked, that the blood which escaped externally during the operation was greater than usual, but this soon ceased. Had thi^ woman not died from the effects of the diarrhoea, it would never have been discovered that the obturator artery had been wounded. The extent of the hemorrhage was in all probability diminished, by the artery having been completely cut across. The most common origin of the obturator artery is from the internal iliac or some of its branches; but in a great number of cases it is found to arise either directly, or much more com- monly indirectly from the external iliac, by a trunk common to it with the epigastric. When it arises from the internal iliac, it is evident that it can in no way be implicated in the operation for femoral hernia, in whatever manner it may be performed. Even when it arises from the external iliac, it is but very rarely endangered in the ordinary methods of perform- ing this operation, as it generally proceeds downwards and inwards, first passing along the outer or iliac side of the fe- moral ring, and then along part of its posterior margin, to reach the upper portion of the obturator foramen. In the rarer cases, which seem to be principally those in which the common trunk of the obturator and epigastric is longer than usual, the obturator takes a more circuitous course, passing along the up- per margin of the femoral ring, and then along its inner or pubic margin. It must be evident that when a femoral hernia descends, the relative position of the artery to the neck of the sac, in these two cases, is very different, and, in a practical point of view, involves very important considerations. We have stated that the most common, or what is considered the normal origin of this artery, is from the internal iliac, or one of its branches. The origin next in frequency is by a com-