Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 10 nal circumflex an inch and a quarter below Poupart's liga- ment. The artery in this case would also in all probability have been placed on the outer side of the sac, had a femoral hernia descended. Besides the constant danger of cutting directly outwards from the position of the common femoral vein, of carrying the knife upwards and outwards to any great extent from the proximi- ty of the origin of the epigastric artery, of cutting directly upwards, for much more than two lines in the male from the presence of the spermatic chord, we find that there are other blood-vessels, deviating from their usual course, which may occasionally present themselves to the cutting edge of the knife, in whatever manner the operation may be performed. Though no surgeon in this country would, in consequence of this, be inclined to adopt the method of dilating the stricture, yet it must deeply impress upon his mind the necessity of not ex- tending his incisions for enlarging the stricture, beyond what is absolutely necessary for returning the contents of the hernia without violence. * If the obturator should happen to be divided during the operation, are we to stand idly by, and not attempt to secure the cut extremities of the artery ? Mr Guthrie has very pro- perly strongly protested against such inactivity, and lays down the following directions for securing the artery. " In the male a transverse incision should be made in the line of Poupart's ligament, the tendon of the external oblique muscle cut through, and the spermatic chord exposed ; this is to be drawn upwards, and kept in that situation by a bent probe. Poupart's ligament is then to be cut through until the first incision for dividing the stricture is met by that just made. The blood will now easily lead to the artery, which must be secured by a ligature, and to render this easy of execution, sufficient space and a blunt knife only can be wanted in addition to the forceps and ligature. In the female the operation is very simple, as the round ligament requires little attention being paid to it." III.—Malposition of the Large Intestines in two indivi- duals, apparently causing fatal Ileus in one of them. Case I. When attending two years ago an autopsy of an individual who had died of some thoracic disease, I found the following abnormal position of the large intestines. The caput coecum was placed in the upper part of the left lumbar region ; the colon first passed through the left lumbar region, • In some of the cases in which the obturator surrounds the neck of the sac, the incisions for enlarging the stricture may probably be carried for a line or two with- out endangering the artery.