Dr John Keid's Anatomical Observations. 7 mon trunk with the epigastric from the external iliac. More rarely it springs directly from the external iliac, and still more rare ly from the femoral. Though the artery may thus arise from points placed at a considerable distance from each other, it invariably makes its way out of the pelvis by the same opening, viz. the upper part of the obturator foramen. When it is a branch of the femoral it mounts upwards along that ar- tery, passes below Poupart's ligament, and places itself in the same position as if it had arisen within the abdomen. Cloquet* examined250subjects; 125females, andl25males, for the purpose of ascertaining the relative frequency of the origin of the obturator, from the hypogastric, external iliac, and epigastric. In these the obturator arose from the hypogas- tric in both sides in 160; from the epigastric on both sides in 56 ; from the epigastric on one side, and the hypogastric on the other, in 28 ; from the external iliac in 6. Including both sides of the body, thus increasing the number of arteries examined to 500, and taking all the obturator arteries which arose from the ■hypogastric arteries, and all those which arose from epigastric arteries, or directly from the external iliac, he found that the obturator arose from the hypogastric in 348 ; from the epigas- tric or external iliac in 152. According to these results, the frequency of the origin of the obturator artery from the hypo- gastric are to those from the epigastric and external illiac as 3 to 1. The obturator was found to arise rather more frequent- ly from the hypogastric in males than in females. Monro be- lieves the relative proportion between the origin of the obtura- tor artery from the internal iliac and its branches, and from the epigastric and external iliac, to be as 20 to I. Velpeau -f* states that his observations, drawn from the examination of nearly a thousand cases, led him to coincide in Monro's opinion. Hes- selbach + thinks that the origin of the obturator from the external iliac and epigastric is not very common, and strange- ly asserts, that it rarely occurs except in females. Manec states the proportion to be 1 in 6; Scarpa and Lawrence as 1 in 15. According to other researches § the obturator was found to arise in common with the epigastric in 12 out of 63 subjects, affected with crural hernia, and in all passed behind the neck of the sac. Meckel || is of opinion that the obturator arises nearly as frequently from the epigastric and external iliac, as from the internal iliac and its branches. My own dissections have furnished me with results approaching very nearly to those Recherches Anatomiques sur les Hernias de I'Abdomen, p. 72. t Traite Complct d'Anatomie Chirurgicale, 2d Kdit. T Origine, &c. des Arter, Epig. et Obturat, § La Medecine Operatoire par Sabatier, p 600. Tome iii. F,. 1830. II Manuel d'Anatomie Deseriplive, (iencrnle, &c, Tome ii.