Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. - 13 lical region, down the centre of the abdomen, to terminate in the rectum.* These are the more interesting, as they ap- proach nearly to the position which the large intestine occupies in the first months of foetal developement. Meckel f has as- certained, that, in the early months of utero-gestation, the co- lon does not consist of ascending, transverse, and descending portions as in the adult, but is nearly straight; and that it is only towards the end of the fourth month that the caput cae- cum reaches the right lumbar region. According to Serres, the position of tlie capiit caecum in the right iliac fossa is in- timately connected with the descent of the testicle in the male, and that of the ovary in the female. In these cases, where the descent of the testicle has been arrested, he has found that of the ccecum also arrested. The high position of the caput ccecum and the descent of the colon through the centre of the abdomen are only the persistence of an arrangement which is perfectly normal in tlio foetus, at a certain stage of its developement. According to Meckel, the descending colon describes a larger curvature in the left \\\ac fossa in the fcetus, during the latter months of utero-gestation, so that this appearance in the adult is only the continuance of the arrangement peculiar to the foetus at that period. Though many of the abnormal appearances in the adult can be beautifully and most satisfactorily accounted for by the arrestment of the developement, yet there are others which have as yet baffled all the ingenuity and industry of those ce- lebrated anatomists and physiologists who have thrown so much ligiit upon this subject; and among these we may at present class the two cases of malposition of the larger intestine which I have here detailed. We must regard the contracted portion of the intestine, situated below the dilated portion in the fatal case of ileus, as quite healthy. A contracted state of a greater or less por- tion of the intestinal canal is so frequent an appearance after death, where we have no reason to suppose that its functions were derangedduringlife,thatitcannotof itself be considered morbid. That the intestine below the dilated portion should become con- tracted is, in fact, nothing more than what we would expect, since it is a general law in the animal economy, that when the usual substances cease to pass along any tube or duct, its calibre soon becomes diminished, and is ultimately entirely obliterated. So " Vox example of the passage of the transverse arch of the colon down the centre of the abdomen to terminate in the rectum, see Morgagni de Sed. ct Cans. Morb. Lib. II. Fipist. 17 et Lib. III. Epist. ;i4. t Manuel d'Anatomie Gcncralc, Descriptive, &c. Tom. ii.