Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 11 to the lower part of the left illiac fossa, it then turned up again to the left lumbar region, the ascending portion lying inter- nal to, and nearly in close apposition with the descending por- tion ; in the left lumbar region it again formed an acute angle and again traversed the left lumbar region and left iliac fossa, close to and internal to the ascending portion, and then pas- sing over the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, it terminated as usual in the rectum. All the large intestines were thus coiled up in the left lumbar region and left iViac^fossa ; and were firmly tied in their situation by the reflexions of the peritoneum. The small intestines consequently occupied that portion of the um- bilical region and of the right side of the abdomen where the large intestines are usually placed. On dissecting out the superior mesenteric artery, I found that the arch formed by this artery, instead of presenting the usual form, was reversed ; the convexity instead of looking downwards and to the left side, looked downwards and to the right. From the convexity of the arch the arteries supplying the jejunum, and ileum arose as usual, and from the concavity sprung the usual bran- ches distributed to the large intestine. The textures of the intestine were perfectly healthy. Case II. During last summer, I assisted my friend Dr Weir of Bathgate, to examine the body of a boy about 17 years of age, who died of ileus. The disease had lasted ten days, and had resisted the most active and judicious treatment. The position of the large intestine in this boy exactly resembled that already described, with this trifling difference, that the caput caecum was not so firmly fixed in the left lumbar region as in the other. We had the same folding of the large in- testine in the left side of the abdomen, and the same acute an- gles formed at the turns of the intestine. Circumstances pre- vented us from ascertaining the position of the vessels in this case. Almost the whole of jejunum, the ileum, caput coscum, and colon down to the point where it formed an acute angle with the portion that turned up, were greatly distended, of a livid colour, and contained a great quantity of air and fluid feces. That portion of the large intestine below the dilated portion was much contracted. This boy had long been sub- ject to colic pains, and these, as well as the fatal attack of ileus, were in all probability to be attributed to the malposition of the intestine, and the close manner in which it was bound in its situation by the 'peritoneum. The malposition in both cases was evidently the original for- mation of the parts, and not the effect of disease or any other agency. From what I have been able to learn from authors, and from