12 Dr John llcid's Anatomical Observations. conversation with several experienced anatomists, I am led to believe that the abnormal position of the large intestines here described must be a very rare occurrence. Besides the cases of transposition of the whole of the viscera^ various irregularities in the position of the large intestines are mentioned by practical authors, and by those engaged in elucidat- ing the developement of xhe fostus-., some of these undoubtedly arising from original conformation, and others from disease. The most common of the former of these seems to depend upon the un- usual length of the intestine, particularly of the transverse arch of the colon. Morgagni describes several cases of this kind, where the transverse arch of the colon, in passing across the upper part of the unibilical region, proceeded downwards to a greater or less extent; in some cases as far as the pelvis^ and again turned up to the umbilical region to pursue its usual course. Mr Annesley* gives descriptions and delineations of similar cases. The sigmoid flexure of the colon sometimes makes a very unusual bend into the margin of the umbilical region, occasionally producing a re- tardation of the contents of the intestinal canal. An example of this is given by Dr Abercrombie, and another also by Mr An- nesley. The ascending colon sometimes makes a similar curva- ture. In some cases all the different portions of the colon are of unusual length, and the large intestine takes a very irregu- lar and winding course through the cavity of the ahdomen. Annesley gives a very remarkable example of this kind. Dr Wells -f- also relates a somewhat similar case, and G. St Hi- laire found it in a monstrous foetus^ assuming the great length peculiar to some of the lower animals. The ca-piit coccum, may be placed higher than usual, so as to lie in the right lum- bar region, or towards the umbilicus. Annesley gives one case where it was placed in the middle of the pelvis^ but he seems to considers this as the effect of derangement of the func- tions of the intestinal canal, j" Connected with the high position of the ccecum, we may have the colon passing from the umbi- * On the Diseases of India, Vol. ii. -f- Vol. 3d of the Transactions of a Society for improving Medical and Chirur- gical Knowledge. I have just examined the body of an aged female, who died of pleurisy, in wiiom the caput coccinii was placed loose in the lower part of the pelvis, and the ascending colon was firmly fixed by tiic peritoneum in the right iliac fossa. Tiie sigmoid flexure, after passing into the jjclvis, turned upon itself at an acute angle, and re-entered theleft iliac region, about the middle part of which it formed another acute angle, and re- turned to the j'clms. All the abdominal viscera were quite healthy. In examining the abdomen of a boy seven years of age, the ctr.c«?« was found lying in the right lumbar region ; from this it followed its usual course, until it reach- ed the lelt iliac fossa, wlien it crossed the spine to the right iliac fossa, where it turn- ed upon itself and then passed into the jwlvlt on the right side. The trunk of the in- terior mysenteric artery, after sending oft'the lel't colic and sigmoid branch, passed to the right of the spine, accompanying the intestine. The testicles had descended.