Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 5 Deposited in the body of the uterus, and among loose cellular tissue between the uterus and external surfoce of the perito- neum in this subject, we found a great number of rounded tu- mours of various sizes, the largest of which were almost entire- ly calcareous, some of the smaller were fibro-calcareous, and others again were entirely fibrous. Two of the smaller tu- mours had pushed the peritoneum before them, and were only attached loosely by a fold of this membrane. The origin of this fibro-calcareous tumour, and the manner in which it pas- sed into the cavity of the peritoneum, are sufficiently obvious, and afford an excellent illustration of Laennec's explanation of the mode by which the cartilaginous bodies found in serous membranes escape into their interior. Tumours of various kinds may in this manner become loose, and pass into the in- terior of any of the serous membranes of the body. My friend Dr J. Y. Simpson informs me, that he examined a preparation at Guy's Hospital Museum, in which there were continuous rows of small carcinomatous tubercles running along the course of the intercostal vessels, some of which showed a tendency to pediculation. He saw in the same museum an irregular, no- dulated, roundish, white, and glistening body of the size of a walnut, which was found loose in the cavity of the pleura. II.—On the Varieties of the Obturator Artery, and the re- lation of these to the Femoral Ring. I strongly suspect that the obturator artery runs a greater risk of being wounded during the operation for strangulated femoral hernia, than many surgeons are inclined to admit; and if this be the case, the varieties in the origin and course of this artery deserve a fuller considerjrtion than what is generally al- lotted to them, in the systematic works on anatomy and sur- gery of this country. Mr Guthrie states, in his Essay on Femoral and Inguinal Her- nia, when speaking of the danger of wounding the obturator artery m operations for strangulated femoral hernia, '* that he has been made aware of more than one accident of this nature havnig occurred in operations performed by some of the best anatomists and surgeons in London, and the patients subse- quently bled at intervals, until they died from hemorrhao-e Robert * mentions, that the celebrated Mursinna, in operatlno- for strangulated femoral hernia, in a case where the obturatot' artery had surrounded the neck of the sac, wounded the exter- nal coat of the artery, and that the patient died eight days af- ter, from hemorrhage arising from a rupture of the iniured ar- tery. lies Progrcs cks Sciences Medicalcs, Tome viii. p. lyS.