3 Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. Dr Smith never observed him complain of any uneasiness arising from the presence of the fibro-cartilaginous body within the cavity of the peritoneum. Though he had occasional de- lirium for a few days before death, yet it was nothing more than what is frequently observed in patients, in a very exhaust- ed state, with an impeded circulation through the lungs. This loose fibro-cartilaginous body found within the abdo- men is evidently of the same origin, though differing slightly in structure from those observed within the tunicae vaginales and pleurae, and must at one time have been attached to some portion of the peritoneum. The loose cartilages within the synovial membranes of the articulations, particularly that of the knee, have attracted more or less attention since the time of Ambrose Pare, as they are often attended with very disagreeable consequences, and are the subjects of surgical operation. They have been occasion- ally seen in great numbers in the synovial membranes of the tendons; in the bursae mucosae, particularly that enveloping the flexor tendons, as they pass below the annular ligament of •the wrist; * and in the interior of serous cysts developed where they do not naturally exist, -f- In the splanchnic serous mem- branes, they have been seen most frequently in the tunicae va- ginales, and rarely within the peritoneum, pleurae, and arach- noid. I am not aware of their having been found within the pericardium. These cartilaginous bodies of the serous membranes appear to be of two kinds; the one of more frequent occurrence ap- proaches nearly to cartilage in its structure; the other has a greater or less resemblance to fibro-cartilage. I have found the following cases of the presence of these cartilaginous bodies within the cavity of the peritoneum record- ed. Laennec states, that Littre once observed one of these bodies loose within the cavity of the peritoneum. Andral mentions that he has found them more than once, sometimes loose, and sometimes adhering to the inner surface of the pe- ritoneum. Beclard once saw one of these bodies, which had been found loose within the peritoneum, of the size of a nut, consisting of concentric lamina?, with a calcareous deposit in the centre. It, in fact, exactly resembled the largest one in the case before us, except in being of a smaller size. There is a delineation and description given of one of these tumours found adhering to the surface of the pleura, by Mr Wardrop, m the ninth volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surreal Journal, which also exactly resembled in its structure • Cruveilhier's Anatomic Patliologique, Tonie i. t Andral's Anatomie Pathologique, Tome