Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 9 Lawrence infers that the obturator artery may surround the neck of the sac, so as to become endangered in 1 of 80 cases of femoral hernia. As this calculation, however, must be formed from imperfect data, we can only regard it as an approximation to the truth. When the obturator arises in common with the epigastric, we generally observe a small branch running in the more usual course of the obturator, and vice versa. Meckel supposes that in the foetus, the obturator is always formed by two branches, one from the internal iliac, and one from the epigastric or ex- ternal iliac; that these are at first of equal calibre, but, as the growth proceeds, one of them becomes arrested in its develope- ment, and never proceeds beyond the foetal state, while the other enlarges in proportion to the increasing size of the parts which it supplies. The epigastric generally sends two small branches over the posterior surface of Gimbernat's ligament, one of these ra- mifying upon the posterior surface of the pubis, the other pro- ceeding downwards to the upper part of the obturator/o?'ame72, to connect itself with the obturator artery. This last branch, if we admit MeckePs views to be correct, must be regarded as forming part of the obturator artery in the foetus, and which often becomes enlarged, while the other branch remains of the foetal size; so that what is generally considered as the abnor- mal origin of the obturator artery is only the enlargement of a normal branch. In a preparation made by Mr Liston, and described and figured by Dr Monro, this branch passing be- tween the epigastric and obturator is of unusual size. This resembles cases alluded to by Cruveilhier, where the branches from the epigastric and internal iliac forming the obturator were of equal calibre. The obturator vein often passes up to join itself to the epi- gastric vein. In this course it may surround the neck of the sac. Allen Burns has seen an instance of this kind. Michelet found the internal circumflex artery in one case arising in common with the epigastric, and he supposes that if a femo- ral hernia had descended, it might have been pushed to the pubic side of the neck of the sac. I had an opportunity of dissecting a similar variety two winters ago ; but in that case the artery would, in all probability, have lain on the iliac side of the neck of the sac. In one subject last winter I found the converse of this variety ; the epigastric arose from the inter- face of tlie vessels. If, however, we with some anatomists describe the fascia cribH. jorvus as the iintenor part of the sheath of the vessels, and the pubic portion of the jascta lata v/hic , lies behind the vessels as the posterior part of their shcatli, then every temoral hernia lies in tlic sheath of the vessels.