AETEKIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 460 muscles. They vary in number from two to seven. They supply the sartorius and the vastus internus with other muscles which are close to the femoral artery : their size appears to bear an inverse proportion to that of the descending branches of the external circumflex artery. Anastomotic airfcery. — This branch arises from the femoral artery when in Hunter's canal. It pierces the anterior wall of that canal and descends upon the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner condyle of the femur, giving off several branches, and covered by some of the fibres of the vastus internus muscle ; it finally anastomoses with the internal articular arteries, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery. It gives off the following branches. (a) A .siqierjiclal brancli accompanies the long saphenous nerve beneath, the sartorius muscle to the integument on the inner side of the knee. (5) The external branch, arising from the lower part of the vessel, crosses over the femur, supjslies offsets to the knee-joint, and forms an arch a little above the articular surface, by anastomosing with the superior external articular artery. Varieties of the Femoral Artery and Branches.—Trunh.—Four instances have been recorded of division of the femoral artery below the origin of the profunda into two vessels, which subsequently were reunited near the opening of the adductor magnus so as to form a single popliteal artery. In all these cases, the arrangement of the vessels appears to have been similar. To one of them (that first observed) special interest is attached, inasmuch as it was met with in a patient operated upon for popliteal aneurism. (This case was treated by Charles Bell, and recorded in " The London Medical and Physical Journal," vol. Ivi. p. 134. London, 1826.) The femoral artery is occasionally replaced at the back of the thigh by a trunk continuous with the internal iliac. Having passed from the pelvis through the large sacro-sciatic notch, this trunk accompanies the great sciatic nerve along the back of the thigh to the popliteal space, where its connections and termination become similar to those of the vessel presenting the usual arrangement. Four examples of this deviation from the common state of the blood-vessel have been recorded. Reference is made to these in a Paper in vol. 36 of the Medico-Chirur- gical Transactions, giving an account of a specimen of remarkable deformity of the lower limbs of a man in whom the artery was so transposed on both sides. Branches.—The deep femoral is occasionally given off from the inner side of the parent trunk, and more rarely from the back part of the vessel. Occasionally it arises at a distance of less than an inch, and sometimes of more than two inches, below Poupart's ligament. It was even found by Richard Quain arising, in one instance, above Poupart's ligament, and in another four inches below it ; but in the latter instance the internal and external cii'cumflex arteries did not arise from the profunda. The external clrcmnjiex branch sometimes arises directly from the femoral artery ; or it may be represented by two branches, of which, in most cases, one proceeds from the femoral, and one from the deep femoral : both branches, how- ever, have been seen to arise from the deep femoral, and much more rarely, both from the femoral artery. The infernal eirciemjlex branch may be transferred to the femoral artery above the origin of the profunda. Examples have also been met with in which the internal circumflex arose from the epigastric, from the circumflex iliac, or from the external iliac artery. Many occasional branches have been seen arising from the femoral, as the deep epigastric or aii aberrant obturator ; more rarely an ilio-lumbar or a dorsalis penis, an accessory profunda femoris, or an accessory external circumflex. The great saplienous artery is an occasional vessel of some magnitude. It arises, when present, either above or below the origin of the profunda, and running at first between the vastus internus and adductor magnus, it pierces Hunter's canal to