299 DORSAL AXD LUMBAR FASCI.TE. the latissimiTS dorsi, and its aponeurotic part is firmly united for some distance with the tendon of that muscle. Actions.—The serratus posticus superior elevates the upper ribs, and is there- fore to be regarded as a muscle of inspiration. The seiTatus inferior acts directly as a depressor of the lower ribs, and may aid either in expiration or inspiration ; in expii-ation by acting- in concert with the muscles which depress the higher ribs : in inspiration by fixing the lower ribs and giving firmness to the origin of the diaphragm. The vertebral aponeurosis is situated on the same plane as the serratus posticus inferior, and consists of a thin lamella which separates the muscles belonging- to the shoulder and arm from those which sup- port the spine and head. Its fibres are for the most part transverse : some however are longitudinal. Above, it passes beneath the superior serratus ; below, it is connected with the tendons of the latissimus and inferior serratus muscles, and in being stretched from the spinous pro- cesses outwards across the vertebral groove, it helps to enclose the angular space in which are lodged the long extensor muscles. Dorsal and Lumbar Fascia.—Under the name of lumbar fascia or aponeurosis it has been customary to describe three layers of strong fibrous substance sheathing the erector spinae and quadratus lumborum muscles. The deeper parts of this structure, to which by some the name of lumbar fascia is restricted, will be described along with the abdominal muscles, with which they are chiefly connected. The siqjer- ficicil or 'posterior layer is that through which the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior muscles are attached to the spines of the dorsal, lumbar and sacral vertebras and to the crest of the ilium. This layer^ which is of considerable strength, extends outwards beyond the origin of the latissimus and serratus inferior, and being closely united with the middle layer, binds down firmly the erectores spinje muscles ; it is by some described as the lower part of the vertebral aponeurosis, with which it is continuous, by others it has been named the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. The sPLENius muscle is so named from its having the form of a strap, which binds down the parts lying under it. It is attached supe- riorly in part to the cervical vertebras, in part to the skull, and is described accordingly under two names. a. The splenius colli is attached inferiorly to the spinous processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebras, and superiorly along with the slips of the levator anguli scapulae to the transverse processes of the first two or three cervical vertebrae. 1). The splenius capitis, broader and thicker than the preceding, arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and two upper dorsal vertebra, and from the ligamentum nuchee as high as the third cervical vertebrjB. It is inserted into the lower and back part of the mastoid process, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. lii'Iat'wm.—The splenius is covered by the trapezius, the rhomboid, and the serratus posticus superior ; and at its attachment to the occipital bone by the stemo-mastoid. It conceals, in part, the complexus and trachelo-mastoid. Erector Spin^.—This muscle may either be regarded as one large composite muscle, or as consisting of seven distinct muscles. Viewed as one muscle it may be conveniently considered as formed of three