ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. .80 The interosseous ligaments are found to vary somewhat in their connections from those here stated, being sometimes attached at once to the contiguous sides of two tarsal and two metatarsal bones. Attention was first particularly- directed to these ligaments by M. Lisfranc, in connection with the amputation of the foot through the tarso-metatarsal articulation. See " Manuel des Opera- tions Chirurgicales," &c. Par J, Coster. 3rd edit. Paris, 1829. ^ Synovial membranes.—There are three synovial membranes in this irregular series of articulations, a. One belongs to the internal cunei- form and the first metatarsal bone : the joint formed between these two bones is altogether separate and out of the range of the rest. h. A second synovial membrane is placed between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones ; this is isolated on the inner side by the external interosseous ligament, c. The third or middle one is placed between the middle and external cuneiform and the second and third metatarsal bones, and is prolonged between the two last-named bones, as well as sometimes between the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The disposition of this last synovial membrane is subject to variation. Metatarsal Articulations.—The metatarsal bones are bound together at their tarsal and digital ends ; very firmly in the former, and loosely in the latter situation. The tarsal ends of the four outer bones articulate with each other, hav- ing lateral cartilaginous surfaces and provided with synovial membrane, and are connected by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The Fig. 161. Fig. 161.—Vertical Antero-Posterior Section of the Ankle-Joint and Articu- lations OF the Foot, a little to the Inside of the Middle of the Great Toe OF the Eight Foot. (A. T.) ^ 1, the synovial cavity of the ankle-joint ; 2, the posterior talo-calcaneal articulation ; 3, placed above tlie talo-scaphoid articulation ; 3', on the astragalus above the anterior talo-calcaneal articulation, which is continuous with the preceding : the interosseous liga- ment is seen separating 2 from 3' ; 4, the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament ; 5, part of the calcaneo-cuboid or long pLantar ligament ; G, tlie scapho-cuneiform articulation; 7, the first cuneo-metatarsal articulation ; 8, the first metatarso-phalangeal articulation ; 9, section of the inner sesamoid bone ; 10, the phalangeal articulation ; 11, placed on the calcaneum, indicates the bursa between the upper part of the tuberosity of that bone and the tcndo Achiilis.