ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 136 The joints of the articulating processes present each a synovial cavity surrounded by an irregular fibrous capsule. The fibrous bands Fig. 120. Fig. 120,—The Arches of three Dorsal Ver- tebrae, SEEN PROM BEFORE. ^ The bodies of the vertebrje have been removed by sawing through the pedicles, to show the articular capsules and the ligamenta subflava. of these capsules are longer and looser in the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The ligamenta suMava are ligaments consisting of yellow elastic tissue, which connect the lamina? of the vertebras. Their fibres are nearly vertical, and are attached superiorly to the anterior surface of the lamina of one vertebra near its inferior margin, and inferiorly to the upper margin and part of the posterior surface of the lamina of the Fig. 121 Fig. 121.—Antero-Posterior Vertical Sec- tion OP THE UPPER PART OF THE VERTEBRAL Column, and part of the Occipital Bone, showing the Articulations. (A. T. after Arnold.) 1, 1, anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrfe ; 1', anterior atlanto-occipital ligament ; 2, from this figure upwards the pos- terior common ligament of the bodies ; 2', the continuation of the preceding or apparatus liga- mentosus lying on the basilar process of the occipital bone ; 3, 3, 3, these figures are placed on the inside of the arches of the 2nd cervical and 1st and 6th dorsal vertebrfe ; the ligamenta subflava are to be seen stretching between the lamina ; 4, 4, placed upon two of the inter- spinous ligaments ; 4' divided edge of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and below it, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament ; 5, 5, supraspinous ligaments ; 6, ligamentum nuchse ; -t-, its upper extremity at the occipital tuberosity ; 4- +, its lower extremity terminat- ing in the supraspinous ligaments of the upper dorsal vertebrae. vertebra beneath. They are most dis- tinctly seen when the arches are de- tached from the bodies of the vertebrae, and they are viewed from the front. Posteriorly they appear short, and in the dorsal region are concealed by the prominent inferior margins of the laminae and the roots of the spines. Their outer margins are close to the articulating processes; their inner margins are thickened and in contact with each other beneath the root of the spinous process. The ligamenta subflava do not exist between the occiput and the