THE EEACHIAL PLEXUS. 584 instances in which it received a fourth branch or root from the eighth cervical.. Its highest root from the fifth cervical nerve is frequently united at its origin with the nerve to the rhomboids. BRANCHES BELOW THE CLAVICLE. The several nerves now to be described are derived from tlie three great cords of the plexus in the following order. From the upper or outer cord,—the external of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous, and the outer root of the median. From the lower or inner cord,—the inner of the two anterior thoracic,, the nerve of Wrisberg, the internal cutaneous, the ulnar, and the inner root of the median. From the posterior cord,—the subscapular nerves, the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral. If the fasciculi of which the principal nerves are composed be followed, through the plexus, they may be traced to those of the spinal nerves which in the subjoined table are named along with each trunk. The higher numbers refer to the cervical nerves, the unit to the dorsal nerve :— Ulnar .... 8.1. or 7.8.1- Internal cutaneous Small internal cutaneous outer .5.6.7. SubscaiDular from . . Circumflex . . . > 5.G.7.8. Musculo-spiral . . .; External cutaneous . . .5.6.7. Median .... 6.6.7.8.1. 8.1. Anterior thoracic inner 8.1. Anterior thoracic nerves.—The anterior thoracic nerves, two in number, supply the pectoral muscles. The external, or more superficial branch, arising from the outer cord, crosses inwards over the axillary artery, and terminates in the great pectoral muscle. The internal, or deeper branch, springing from the inner cord, comes forwards between the axillary artery and vein to the small pectoral muscle, and is joined by a branch from the external. This nerve pre- sents a plexiform division beneath the small pectoral muscle, and sup- plies branches to it and the larger pectoral muscle. The two nerves are connected by a filament which forms a loop over the artery, at the inner side. Subscapular nerves.—These nerves, three in number, take origin from the posterior cord of the plexus. The V2)2)er nerve, the smallest of the subscapular nerves, penetrates, the upper part of the subscapular muscle. The middle nerve gives a. branch to the subscapularis at its axillary border, and ends in the teres major muscle. There is sometimes a distinct nerve for the last-named muscle. The long sulscajndar nerve, the largest of the three, runs along the lower border of the subscapular muscle to the latissimus dorsi, to which it is distributed. Circumflex nerve.—The circumflex nerve gives both muscular and cutaneous nerves to the shoulder. Springing from the posterior cord^ this nerve is at first placed behind the axillary artery, but at the lower border of the subscapular muscle it is inclined backwards with the posterior circumflex artery, in the space between the scapula and teres major muscle above the long head of the triceps, and separates into an