AETEPJES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 358 within the sheath. The artery is deeply placed at the lower part of the neck, but is comparatively superficial towards its upper end. It is covered below by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, in addition to the platysma and the layers of fascia between and beneath the muscles ; and it is crossed opposite or near the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage by the omo-hyoid muscle. From this point upwards to its bifurcation, the vessel is covered by the sterno- mastoid, by the platysma and fascia, and by the common integument; and lies in a triangular space bounded by the sterno-mastoid, the omo- hyoid, and the digastric muscles. Posteriorly, the artery is supported by the cervical vertebras, the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus muscles intervening. Hence the flow of blood through it may be commanded by pressure directed back- wards against the vertebral column. The inferior thyroid artery crosses behind the carotid sheath. On the inner side the vessel is in contact with the trachea, the thyroid body (which often overlaps the artery), the larynx, and the pharynx. Along its outer side are placed the internal jugular vein, and the vagus nerve. Relation to veins.—The internal jugular vein is close to the artery at the upper part of the neck, but, in approaching the thorax, the vein& of both sides incline to the right, and hence that of the right side is. separated from the artery by an angular interval, while that of the left side approaches the artery, and even lies in front of it at the lower part of the neck. Crossing over the upper part of the common carotid artery to join with the jugular vein, are two or more sn/perior thyroid veins, which occasionally form a sort of plexus over the arterj^ A middle thyroid vein not unfrequently crosses the artery about half way up the neck. The anterior jugular vein, where it turns outwards under the sterno- mastoid muscle to join the subclavian, crosses the lower part of the artery. This vein is generally of small size, but occasionally is rather large, and is placed nearly over the carotid artery along the neck. Relation to nerves.—The descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve, descendens noni, usually rests, together with the branches of cervical nerves which join it, on the fore part of the sheath of the carotid artery, and crosses it from the outer to the inner side : in some instances this branch descends within the sheath between the carotid artery and jugular vein. The vagus nerve lies within the sheath of the vessels between the artery and vein posteriorly : it was in one case observed to descend over the artery. The sympathetic nerve is placed along the back of the sheath, between it and the vertebral muscles, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve crosses inwards behind the lower part of the sheath. The common carotid artery usually gives off no branch, and therefore continues of equal size in its whole length, except at its bifurcation, where a slight enlargement is observable. Varieties.— Origin.—The r'igJtt carotid artery occasionally arises directly from tlie aorta, or in conjunction with the left carotid. When it arises from the aorta, it is usually the first vessel from the arch, the subclavian being- displaced; but it has been found to occupy the second place,—the right subclavian, or, very rarely, the left carotid being- the first. The place at which the rig-ht carotid artery commences varies with the point