447 VARIETIES OF THE PUDIC AllTERY. transverse muscle, and to the parts between the anus and the bulb of the urethra. (d) The artery of the hnlh is, surgically considered, an important vessel. It is very short; arising from the pudic between the layers of the sub-pubic fascia, and passing transversely inwards, this artery reaches the bulb a little in front of the central point of the perinjeum, and ramifies in the erectile tissue. It gives a branch to Cowper's gland. {(■) The artenj of the corpus cavernofnim (profunda penis), one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, runs a short distance between the crus penis and the ramus of the pubis, and then continuing forward penetrates the crus, and ramifies in the corpus cavernosum, (/■) The dorsal artcrij of tlie 2^cfiis runs between the crus and the pubic sym- physis : having pierced the suspensory ligament, it continues along the dorsum of the penis immediately beneath the skin, and parallel with the dorsal vein, as well as with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. It supplies the integ- ument of the penis, and the fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum, anasto- mosing with the deep arteries ; and. near the corona glandis, divides into branches, which supply the glans and the prepuce. Varieties. — Or iff in. The pudic artery is sometimes small, or it is defective in one or two, or even three of its usual branches, which, in those circumstances, are supplied by a supplemental vessel, the accessor// 2J}idic. The defect most frequently met with is that in which the pudic ends as the artery of the bulb, whilst the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsum of the penis are derived from the accessory pudic. But all the three arteries of the penis may be supplied by the accessory pudic, the pudic itself ending as the superficial perineal. A single accessory pudic has been found to supply both cavernous arteries, whilst the pudic of the right side gave both dorsal arteries. On the other hand, cases have occurred in which only a single branch was furnished by the accessory artery, either to take the place of an ordinary branch altogether wanting, or to supplement one of the branches which was diminutive in size. The accessory pudic generally arises from the pudic itself, before the passage of that vessel from the sacro-sciatic foramen, and descends within the pelvis, and along the lower part of the urinary bladder. It lies on the upper part of the prostate gland, or it may be, for a short space, likewise on the posterior margin, and then proceeding forwards above the membranous part of the urethra, reaches the perinfeum, by piercing the fascia of the sub-pubic arch. The accessory pudic sometimes arises from other branches of the internal iliac artery, and is not unfrequently connected with the prostatic or some other branch of the inferior vesical artery. A vessel having a similar distribution may spring from the external iliac, through an irregular obturator, or through the epigastric artery. Branches.—The artery of tlw hulh is sometimes small, sometimes wanting on one side, and occasionally it is double. But a more important deviation from the common condition is one sometimes met with, in which the vessel, arising earlier, and crossing the perinEeum farther back than usual, reaches the bulb from behind. In such a case there is considerable risk of dividing the artery in per- forming the lateral operation for stone. On the other hand, when this small vessel arises from an accessory pudic artery, it lies more forward than usual, and out of danger in case of operation. The dorsal artery of the penis has been observed to arise from the deep femoral artery and to pass obliquely upwards and inwards to reach the root of the penis. Tiedemann gives a di-awing of this variety. The pudic artery in the female.—In the female this vessel is much smaller than in the male. Its course is similar, and it gives the fol- lowing branches. The superficial pcrinml branch is distributed to the labia pudendi. The artery of the hull) supplies the mass of erectile tissue above and at the sides of the entrance of the vagina, named the bulb of the vagina ; whilst the two terminal branches, corresponding to the artery of the