113 THE FIBULA. The superior extremity, or Jiead, somewhat expanded, presents a small oval cartilag'Hious surface looking upwards and inwards, which articu- lates with the external tuberosity of the tibia, and externally to this a Fig. 101. Fig. 102. 5 ^ 5. ■ Fig. 101.—Right Fibula from thk outside and BEFORE. (A. T.) 1, shaft showing the oblique grooves of the peroiiei muscles on the outer anterior surface ; 2, head ; 3, its projection, giving insertion to the tendon of the biceps femoris ; 4, malleolus externus or lower end, the figure is j)laced opposite its anterior or oblique edge ; above this is seen the triangular subcutaneous surface of the bone. Fig. 102.—Right Fibula prom the inside and BEHIND. (A. T.) 5 5, the oblique surface of articulation with the tibia superiorly ; 6, points to the internal or interosseous ridge ; 7, the triangular rough surface for the lower interosseous ligament ; 8, the external malleolar surface for articulation with the astragalus ; 9, groove behind the malleolus externus for the tendons of the peronei muscles ; at a little distance below 6, the nutritious foramen. rough prominence directed upwards, to which the tendon of the biceps muscle is at- tached : its external surface is subcutaneous ; the rest is rough for ligaments. The inferior extremity, or external malleo- lus, is larger than the head of the bone, and longer and more prominent than the internal malleolus ; internally it forms the outer limit of the ankle joint, and presents a triangular smooth surface for articulation with the as- tragalus, bounded posteriorly by a rough depression where the transverse ligament is attached : its anterior border, after project- ing rather abruptly forwards, slopes down- wards and backwards ; its posterior border presents a shallow groove traversed by the tendons of the peronei muscles ; while externally it is convex and subcutaneous, and a triangular subcutaneous surface is continued up from it for an inch or two on the shaft. The shaft is irregularly three-sided and twisted. One surface, from which the pe- ronei muscles take origin, looks forward at the commencement, then turning outwards and backwards, is continued behind the subcutaneous space of the lower end to the groove behind the malleolus. Another surface, looking backwards in the upper half of its extent, winds inwards and terminates above the articular surface of the malleolus ; near its upper end this surface is rough, giving attach- ment to the soleus muscle, and in the rest of its extent it is occupied by the flexor longus pollicis. The remaining part of the surface of the bone, internal, turns forward inferiorly, and terminates on the anterior margin of the malleolus ; it is divided by a longitudinal line, VOL. I. I