MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 296 of the transverse processes of the last six cervical vertebra3; and inferiorly to a rough elevation on the first rib, extending for an inch and a half forwards from the tubercle. lidai'ions.—lii front of this muscle, between it and tlae anterior scalenus, are the cervical nerves and the subclavian artery ; behind it are the posterior scalenus and levator anguli scapulse muscles. Varieties.—This muscle sometimes arises from the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae. It takes the i)lace of the first levator costEe, The scalenus posticus, smaller than the other scaleni muscles, is attached above by two or three small tendons to the transverse pro- cesses of as many of the lowest cervical vertebrae, and inferiorly by an aponeurotic tendon to the second rib, between its tubercle and angle, in front of the attachment of the second levator costte. Relations.—This muscle is partly covered by the middle scalene muscle, and is in contact by its posterior surface with the levator costte and cervicalis ascendens muscle. Tar left es.—The scaleni muscles are subject to some amount of variation, both in the number of their jjoints of attachment, and in the arrangement of their fibres. A slip from the scalenus anticus sometimes passes behind the subclavian artery. The Prevertebral muscles of the cervical region consist of three, of which two pass to the head from the upper vertebrae, viz., the recti capitis antici major and minor, and the third is confined to vertebral attachments, the longus colli. Along with these the rectus capitis lateralis muscle may also be described in this place. The rectus capitis anticus major muscle arises by tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrte : it is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, a little in front of the foramen magnum. The muscles of opposite sides converge as they ascend, and their mesial fibres are longest. Belat'wns.—The anterior surface of the rectu.s capitis anticus major supports the pharynx, the sympathetic and vagus nerves, and the great cervical vessels. The posterior surface rests upon part of the longus colli and the rectus anticus minor. The rectus capitis anticus minor, under cover of the preceding muscle, arises from the anterior arch of the atlas, and slightly from the root of its transverse process; it is inserted into the basilar process, between the margin of the foramen magnum and the preceding muscle, half an inch from its fellow. The rectus capitis lateralis is a short thick muscle arising from the upper surface of the anterior division of the transverse process of the atlas, and inserted into the rough surface beneath the jugular eminence of the occipital bone. It completes the series of intertransversales muscles, which are described along with the deep posterior muscles of the neck. Relations.—The anterior surface of this muscle is in contact with the internal jugular vein, the posterior with the vertebral artery. The longus colli muscle rests on the front of the vertebral column from the atlas to the third dorsal vertebra : it consists of three sets of fibres, of which two are oblique, and one vertical, a. The superior