COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. 438 The common iliac artery of the right side is separated from the front of the last lumbar vertebra, the two common iliac veins being inter- posed. The artery of the left side is crossed by the branches of the inferior mesenteric vessels. Relation to Veins.—The left iliac vein, supported on the last lumbar vertebra, lies to the inner side of, and below the left artery. On the right side there are three veins in proximity to the artery; the right ihac vein lying behind the lower part of the vessel, the left iliac vein Fig. 281.—View of THE EIGHT SIDE OF A Male Pelvis Showing the ex- ternal AND IN- TERNAL Iliac Ar- teries AND THEIR BRANCHES. (A.T.) ^ The viscera of the pelvis have been re- moved as well as the internal iliac veins: the larger nerves have been retained, a, body of the fifth Inmbar ver- tebra ; &, anterior and snpei'ior spine of the right ilium; c, left auricular surface of the sacrum ; c', third piece of the sacrum; d, first piece of the coccyx ; e, short sacro- sciatic ligament; /, tuberosity of the is- chium covered inter- nally by the great sacro-sciatic ligament ;, [1, obturator foramen ; iliacus muscle; 1,, abdominal aorta; 1'^ middle sacral artery ; 2, 2, common iliac ar- teries ; 2', right exter- nal iliac ; 3, vena cava inferior ; 4, 4, com- mon iliac veins ; the mimber on the right points by a line to the right internal iliac artery ; 4', right external iliac vein ; 5, placed on the lumbo-sacral nervous trunk, points to the posterior division of the internal iliac artery giving off the gluteal ; 5', ilio-lumbar artery ; 5", lateral sacral artery with branches passing into the anterior sacral foramina ; 6, placed on the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, points to the sciatic artery coming from the anterior division of the internal iliac ; 7, pudic artery ; 7', the same artery passing behind the spine of the ischium, and proceeding within the ischium and obturator internus muscle, .•accompanied by the pudic nerve towards the perinaDum; towards /, inferior ha?morrhoidal branches are given off ; 7", supei-ficial perineal artery and nerve ; 8, hypogastric artery,, with the obliterated remains of the umbilical artery cut short, and 8', superior vesical branches rising from it ; 9, obturator artery with the corresponding nerve and vein ; 9', the pubic twigs which anastomose with descending twigs of the epigastric artery ; 10, inferior vesical ; 11, middle ha^morrhoidal vessels rising in this instance from the pudic ■; 12, epigastric artery winding to the inside of +, + , the vas deferens and spermatic cord ; 13, circumflex iliac artery; 14, spermatic ai-tery and vein divided superiorly; 15, twigs, of the ilio-lumbar artery proceeding to anastomose with the circumflex iliac. Fig. 281.