THE rNEUMO-GASTEIC NERVE. 557 supplies nerves to the organs of voice and respiration, to the alimentary canal as far as the stomach, and to the heart. Surface attachment.—This nerve arises from the restiform body of the medulla, by twelve or fifteen fine roots, beneath and in a line with the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Deep origin.—The fibres pass inwards and backwards through the medulla to a column of nerve-cells beneath the lowest part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, where they cause a prominence on the surface. At the point of the calamus scriptorius the nuclei are in contact in the middle line, but a little higher up they are separated by the nuclei of the hypoglossal nerve. Course and distribution.—The filaments by which this nerve springs fi'om the medulla oblongata close below those of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve are arranged in a flat fasciculus, which is directed outwards with that nerve, across the flocculus to the jugular foramen. Fig. 347.—Diagram of the Roots Fig. 347. AND Anastomosing Branches of THE Nerves of the Eighth Pair AND Neighbouring Nerves (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Le- veille). 1, facial nerve ; 2, glosso-pharyn- geal with the petrous ganglion repre- sented ; 2', connection of the digastric branch of the facial nerve with theglosso-pharyngealnerve; 3, pneu- mo-gastric, with both its ganglia re- presented ; 4, spinal accessory; 5, hypoglossal; 6, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; 7, loop of union between the two first cer- vical nerves; 8, carotid branch of the sympathetic; 9, nerve of Jacob- son (tympanic), given off from the petrous ganglion; 10, its filaments to the sympathetic ; 11, twig to the Eustachian tubej 12, twig to the fenestra ovalis; 13, twig to the fenestra rotunda ; 14, twig of union with the small superficial petrosal; 15, twig of union with the large superficial petrosal; 16, otic gang- lion ; 17, branch of the jugular fossa, giving a filament to the petrous ganglion; 18, union of the spinal accessory with the pneumo- gastric; 19, union of the hypo- glossal with the first cervical nerve ; 20, union between the stemo-mastoid branch of the spinal accessory and that of the second cervical nerve ; 21, pharyngeal plexus; 22, superior laryngeal nerve; 23, external laryngeal; 24, middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. In passing through the opening at the base of the skull the pneumo- gastric nerve is contained in the same sheath of dura mater, and sur- rounded by the same tube of arachnoid membrane as the spinal accessory nerve ; but It is separated from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve by a process of membrane. In the foramen the filaments of the nerve