261 MOEPHOLOGY OF THE LIMB-MUSCLES. and on the deeper surface of the latissimus dorsi are its occasional scapular por- tion and the teres major, all of which are formed in the deeper parts of this la,yev. The muscles of this layer are frequently found to some extent united together either as varieties in man, or as regular structures among some of the lower animals, and it is interesting to note that most of the varieties hitherto described, seem to be reversions so far towards a uniform type. Thus in Lepi- dosh'en, the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi are blended together at their margins, so as to form one continuous muscle ; and in man the frequently recur- ring axillary arches or loops of muscular fibres which pass from one muscle to the other across the axillary space may point to an imperfectly segmented condi- tion. Again, the pectoralis major is always united in man with the superficial fibres of the external oblique, but in the cryptobranch it is continuous with it in its entire thickness. The cleido-mastoid, which in man is in close relation with the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, being only separated from it by the clavicle runs with the anterior part of the trapezius into the deltoid in those animals in which the clavicle is deficient, forming a mastoido-humeral muscle. The trunk-limb muscles of the deep layer, form a much less complete layer than those of the superficial. They are attached to the shoulder-girdle in two sets. In front of the glenoid cavity, and attached to the coracoid, is the costo- coracoid muscle (in man called subclavius from its more common place of attachment) ; and behind the glenoid cavity, attached to the scapula, are the costo-scapular muscles, comprising the serratus magnus, and the levator scapulse. Besides these there is the slender omo-hyoid from the front of the hyoidean arch to the upper border of the scapula. In the lower limb the ventro-appendicular muscles are represented for the most part by the oblique abdominal muscles, only those muscles which pass over the girdle to the limb being found distinct. The gluteus maximus most closely represents the latissimus dorsi, and is similarly inserted into the postaxial border of the limb. The pectoralis corresponds most nearly with the gracilis, and the trapezio-deltoid with the anterior part of the external oblique and pectineus. The gTacilis and pectineus arise near each other, and are inserted into the pre- axial border of the limb. The pectineus, however, seems to consist of two parts, of which the inner may be related to subclavius, and the outer to great pectoral and deltoid. All the other muscles of the limbs are intrinsle, and in their relation to the several segments are arranged in groups which may in the main be compared homologically with each other. These groups are situated chiefly on the ventral and dorsal aspects, or on the preaxial and postaxial borders of the limbs, and the muscles of which they are composed are respectively flexors and extensors, or protractor^ and retractors. In attempting, however, to institute a homological comparison between the individual muscles of the various segments in the two limbs, it will be necessary to bear in mind, first, the great difference in the attitude of the bones of the proximal segments, the flexor surface in the upper limb being thrown forwards as if by an outward twist, and in the lower limb the flexor surface being turned backwards as if by an inward twist of the proximal segments ; and further, the preponderance in the second segment of the lower limb of the preaxial bone (tibia) over the postaxial (fibula) as opposed to the greater development of the upper end of the postaxial bone of the arm (ulna) over the preaxial (radius). These differences are apt to lead to confusion and difficulty, inasmuch as the insertions of homologous muscles are in some cases very different in the two limbs. In such cases the determination of the homologies may be greatly assisted by the observation of the more constant origins. For example, the great extensor of the forearm is inserted into the postaxial ulna, while in the leg the quadriceps is inserted into the preaxial tibia ; and yet few will doubt the justness of the homological comparison between them. In the distal segments of both limbs the muscles, though more numerous, "become shorter and more uniform in theri- disposition, and hence the homology becomes more apparent between the muscles of the hand and foot, than in those situated nearer the root of the limbs.