BRANCHES OF IXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 446 the scrotum and the upper part of the peringeum. Given off from the" pudie artery in front of the haemorrhoidal branches, it turns upwards parallel with the pubic arch, crosses the transverse muscle of the perineum, and runs forv/ards under cover of the superficial fascia, between the erector penis and accelerator urinae muscles, supplying- both. In this course the artery gradually becomes superficial, and is finally distributed to the skin of the scrotum and the dai-tos. It not unfrequently gives off the following branch. Fic?. 286. Fig. 286.—Dissection of THE PeRIN.*:UM in A Young Male Subject SHOWING THE Bl,OOD- Vessels, &c. (A.T.) i This drawing is made from a preparation upon, a modification of the plan, of 11. Qnain's 61st and 62nd Plates. The right side shows a superficial, the left a deeper view. a, the amis, witli a part of the integument surroimding it ; h, left half of the bulb of the urethra exposed by the removal of a part of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle ; c, coccyx ; d, right tube- rosity of tJie ischium ; e, €, superficial perineal fas- cia passing forward upon the scrotum ; /, right ischio-rectal fossa, from which the fat and fascia have not been removed ; (J, gluteus maximus mus- cle ; 1, placed on the right transversus perinaei muscle, points to the su- l^erficial perineal artery as it emerges in front (in this case) of the muscle ; 1', placed on the left side on the surface of the tri- angular ligament near its reflection into the super- ficial fascia, points to the superficial perineal artery cut short ; 2, on the right ischio-cavernosus muscle, points to the superficial perineal arteries and nerves passing forward ; 2', the same on the left side, the vessels and nerves having been divided there ; 3, on the triangular ligament of the right side points to the transverse perineal branch of the superficial i:)erineal artery ; 4, on the left tuberosity of the ischium, poiarts to the pudic artery deep in the ischio-rectal fossa ; 5, 5', the inferior htemorrlioidal branches of the pudic arteries and nerves ; 6, on the left side, placed in a recess from which the triangular ligament or anterior layer of the subpubic fascia has been removed to show the continuation of the pudic artery, its branch to the bulb, and one of Cowper's glands. (r) The trnnscerse ixjr'meal artery, a very small vessel, is frequently a branch of the preceding, but in some instances arises from the i)udic artery. It crosses the periuEeum, and terminates in small branches which are distributed to the