53 INFERIOR TURBINATED AND MAXILLARY BONES. with it the groove for the lachrymal sac; inferiorly it articulates in its greatest extent with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, while its anterior grooved part projects downwards, taking part in the Fig. 45.—Right Lachrymal Bone, from the outside. (A.T.) § 1, upper or frontal border ; 2, the orbital surface ; 3, lachrymal groove ; 4, the hooked process which meets the inferior turbinated bone. formation of the lachrymal canal, and terminates in a pointed extremity, hamulus laehri/malis, which fits into an angle between the superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bone. The inner surface looks superiorly to the anterior ethmoidal cells, and inferiorly to the middle meatus of the nose. THE INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE. The inferior turbinated, maxiUo-turUnal, or spongy bone, is a slender lamina, attached by one margin from before backwards along the lateral wall of the nose, and projecting into the nasal cavity, so as to divide the middle from the inferior meatus. It is slightly convoluted, its convexity looking inwards, and its free margin being dependent, slightly thickened, and rolled upon itself. The attached margin arti- culates anteriorly with the oblique ridge below the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and ascends abruptly to form the lachrymal process and complete the lachrymal canal and articulate with the lachrymal bone; behind this it is folded downwards in the maxillary process, forming part of the inner wall of the antrum below the Fig. 46.—The Inferior Turbinated Bone of Fig. 46. THE Right Side. (A. T.) | A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1, anterior angle ; 2, posterior angle ; 1, 3, 2, inferior free border ; 4, internal convex surface ; 5, part of the bone articulating with the uncinate proceii'S of the ethmoid ; 6, portion articulating with the lachrymal ; 7, the outer concave sur- face ; 8, the maxillary lu-ocess or plate deflected from the upper border, which, by union with the superior maxillary, forms a part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus. entrance into that cavity; above and behind this, it presents a small pro- jection which articulates with the un- cinate process of the ethmoid, and ^ posteriorly it is attached to the hori- zontal ridge on the vertical plate of the palate bone. This bone is marked by horizontal grooves and canals for vessels and nerves, but not, as the turbinal parts of the ethmoid are, with vertical grooves for the olfactory nerve. THE INFERIOR MAXTLIiARY BONE. The inferior maxilla, mandible, or lower jaw, is the thickest and strongest bone of the face, and moves on the rest of the skull by means