AETICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 148 inserted into the claTicle. In the angle between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments there is frequently present a synovial bursa. Movements.—The movements allowed at the clavicular articulations are limited, not so much by the forms of the articular surfaces, as by the costo- clavicular and coraco-clavicular ligaments, and the position of the thoracic wall. When the clavicle is forcibly depressed, as in lifting a heavy weight, it presses upon the first rib, its sternal end rises, and the iaterarticular cartilage and inter- clavicular ligament are put upon the stretch. When the shoulders are drawn backwards and downwards the angle between the clavicle and the upper border of the scapula is increased by the descent of the scapular arch on the conical wall of the thorax. In raising and depressiug the arm to its full extent, there is not only vertical movement at the shoulder joint, but also movement at the sterno-clavicular and acromio-clavicular articulations. LiGAMEXTS OF THE ScAPULA.—There are two ligaments which stretch from one part of the scapula to another. I. The coracoid or suprascapular ligament is a thin, flat band of fibres, attached by its extremities to the opposite margins of the notch at the root of the coracoid process, which it thus converts into a foramen for the trans- mission of the supra-scapular nerve, the corresponding artery most commonly passing above it. This ligament is frequently converted into bone. 2. The coraco-acromial ligament, broad, firm, and triangular, is attached by its broader extremity to the outer edge of the coracoid process, and by the narrower to the tip of the acromion. Its inferior surface looks downwards upon the shoulder joint, the superior is covered by the deltoid muscle. It completes the arch formed by the coracoid and acromion processes, and gives protection to the shoulder joint. THE SHOULDER JOINT. In this articulation the large and hemispherical head of the humerus is opposed to the much smaller surface of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The bones are retained in position, not by the direct tension of ligaments, which would restrict too much the movements of the joint, but by surrounding muscles and atmospheric pressure. Fig. 134.—View of the Glenoid Cavity and Liga- ments BETWEEN THE SCAPULA AND ClAVICLE OF THE RIGHT SIDE. g 1, glenoid fossa, its cartilaginous surface ; 2, the glenoid ligament or fibrous border ; 3, the tendon of the biceps muscle seen in connection with the upper part of the glenoid fossa and ligament ; 4, upper sur- face of the coi-aooid process ; 5 and 6, on the adjacent part of the clavicle ; 4 to 5, the conoid ; 4 to 6, the trapezoid portion of the coraco-clavicular ligament ; 7, the apex of the acromion process ; 4 to 7, the coraco- acromial ligament ; 8, the acromio-clavicular articu- lation, which is represented as open anteriorly, show- ing a wedge-shaped interarticular cartilage attached above to the superior acromio-clavicular ligament ; X , the inferior acromio-clavicular ligament. The capsular ligament is attached to the scapula round the margin of the glenoid cavity, and to the humerus at the place where the neck springs from the tuberosities and shaft. It extends furthest Fig. 134.