MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 292 in the posterior triangle, investing the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and binding it down to the clavicle' and first rib, where this structure is connected with the costo-coracoid membrane. Still deeper in the anterior triangle the fascia passes behind the depressor musclcB of the larynx, investing the thyroid body, and extending thence on the trachea and large vessels at the root of the neck down to the fibrous layer of the pericardium. Continuous with the deep processes of the cervical fascia is the common sheath of the large cervical Mood vessels, an envelope of fascia enclosing the carotid artery and jugular vein with the pneumogastric nerve. A thin fibrous septum intervenes between the artery and vein, thus com- pleting a separate sheath for each. The layer of fascia descending on the prevertebral muscles, and inter- vening between them and the pharynx and oesophagus, is called the iweverlelral fascia. Muscles.—The sterno-cleido-mastoid or sterno-mastoid muscle is attached inferiorly in two parts to the anterior surface of the sternum and the inner third of the clavicle. The sternal attachment is thick and rounded, tendinous in front and fleshy behind. The clavicular portion, separated from the sternal by a narrow interval, is flat, and is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres. Those two portions become blended together about the middle of the neck into a thick and prominent muscle, which, extending upwards and backwards, is attached superiorly to the anterior border and external surface of the mastoid process, and from thence backwards into a rough ridge of the temporal bone, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The sterno-mastoid muscle divides the quadrilateral space on each side of the neck into two great triangles. Relations.—This muscle is covered for more than the middle three-fifths of its extent by the platysma. It is also crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the ascending superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves. It rests on part of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and crosses the omo-hyoid muscle ; in the middle part of the neck it covers the cervical plexus and the- great cervical vessels, and in the upper part, the digastric and stylo-liyoid muscles : it is pierced by the si)inal accessory nerve. Varieties.—The stemo-cleido-mastoid is occasionally described as two muscles, Tinder the names sterno-mastoid and cleido-mastoid. Normally the fibres of the clavicular part run upwards for some distance behind and inside those of the sternal part before finally blending with them, and sometimes they are separated at the root of the neck by a considerable interval which is occupied by connective tissue. The muscle varies much in breadth at the lower end, the variation, being due altogether to the clavicular part, which is sometimes as narrow as the sternal tendon, while in other instances it extends for three inches along the clavicle. This part of the muscle may likewise, when broader than usual, be divided into several slips separated by intervals near the clavicle. A band of muscular fibres has, in a few instances, been found reaching from the trapezius to this muscle over the subclavian artery ; and the margins of the two muscles have been observed in contact. In animals without a clavicle the cleido-mastoid muscle is continued into the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle, thus- forming a ma.stoido-hnineral muscle. The four following muscles may be classed together as a group of Depressors of the Hyoid Bone and Larynx. The sterno-hyoid muscle, a flat band of longitudinal fibres, arises variously, from the sternum and the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, irom the clavicle and that ligament, or from the clavicle only, and