191 LATISSIMUS DOESI. Between the adj.icent borders of the latissimns dorsi, trapezius, and rliom- boideus major, there is left, when the scapula is drawn forward, a triangailar area in which a portion of one or two ribs and of an intercostal space becomes superficial ; this is taken advantagfe of for the purpose of auscultation. Pig. 165.—Deeper View of the Muscles of the Trunk, Shoulder AND Hip. (After Boar- gery.) (A. T.) I The trapezius, latissimns dorsi, deltoid, ghitens maximiis and ex- ternal obliqiie muscles have been removed. The bones are lettered as in the preceding figure. 1, splenius capitis and splenius colli ; 1', lower end of splenius colli ; 2, complexns near its inser- tion ; 3, levator anguli scapulte ; 4, rhomboideus minor ; above it +, a part of the serratus posticus supe- rior; 5, rhomboideus major; 6, part of the longissimus dorsi ; 6', part of the tendons of insertion of the sacro-lumbalis ; 7, part of the spi- nalis dorsi ; 8, upper, and 8', lower part of the serratus posticus infe- rior ; 9, obliquus abdominis inter- nus ; 10, supraspinatus ; 11, infra- spinatus ; 12, placed upon the long head of the triceps, points to the teres minor ; 18, teres major ; 14, serratus magnus ; 15, gluteus medius ; 16, pyriformis ; 17, portion of the obturator internus ; + and -I-, superior and inferior genielli ; 17', the intra-pelvic portion of obturator internus ; 18, the tendon of the obtu- rator externus passing to its inser- tion ; 19, quadratus femoris ; 20, upper part of the adductor magnus. Varieties. — The number of dorsal vertebrse to which the latissimus dorsi is attached varies from four to seven or eight, and the number of the costal attachments is also incon- stant, being- frequently dimin- ished and more rarely increased. Muscular bands {axillnruarcJu'.s) are sometimes seen to stretch from the border of this muscle across the axilla to its anterior part, where they terminate various- ly, in the tendon of the greater pectoral, in the coraco-brachialis muscle, the biceps, or in the fascia. There is also occasion- ally a slip of attachment to the Fig. 165. scapular part of the triceps.