THE SPIJs^AL NERVES. 568 Fig. 351. ^^6 Fig. 351.—Diagrammatic Outline of the Roots AND First Part of the Spinal Nerves, to- gether WITH the Sympathetic Trunk op one side. (A. T.) i The view is taken from before. In the npper part of the figure the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata are represented, and from V to IX, the roots of the several cranial nerves from the trifacial to the hypoglossal are indicated. On the left side C 1 is placed opposite the first cer- vical or suboccipital nerve ; and the numbers 2 to 8 following below indicate the corresponding cer- vical nerves ; Br, indicates the brachial plexus ; D 1, is placed opposite the intercostal part of the first dorsal nerve, and the numbers 2 to 12 follow- ing mark the corresponding dorsal nerves ; L 1, the first lumbar nerve, and the numbers 2 to 5, following the remaining lumbar nerves ; Or, the anterior crural, and o, the obturator nerve ; S 1, the first sacral, and the following numbers 2 to 5, the remaining sacral nerves; 6, the coccygeal nerve ; Sc, the great sciatic nerve; -f, +, the filum terminale of the cord. On the right side of the figure the following letters indicate parts of the sympathetic nerves ; viz., a, the superior cervical ganglion commimi- cating with the upper cervical sj)inal nerves and continued below in the great sympathetic cord ; h, the middle cervical ganglion ; c, d, the lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal ; d', the eleventh dorsal ganglion ; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglion the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown ; I, the lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; ss, the upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union with the spinal nerves are shown. Summary.—The hypoglossal nerve supplies, either alone or in union with branches of the spinal nerves, all the muscles connected with the os hyoicles, including those of the tongue, with the exception of the digastric, stylo-hyoid, niylo-hj'oid and the middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also supplies the sterno-thyroid muscle. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., pneumo-gastric, lingual, three upper cervical nerves, and the sj'mpathetie. B. SPIISTAL NERVES. The spinal nerves are characterised by their origin from the spinal cord, and their direct transmission outwards from the spinal canal in the intervals between the vertebrae. Taken together, these nerves consist of thirty-one pairs ; I