INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 371 ■upon the membrana tympani. It anastomoses in the tympanum with the stylo- mastoid and Vidian arteries. (b) The middle or {/irat moi'mgeal avtery, hy far the largest of the arteries which supply the dura mater, passes directly upwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve, and enters the skull by the spinous foramen of the sphenoid bone. Within the cranium, it ascends to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into numerous branches, which ramify in deep arborescent grooves on the inner sm-face of the bones some passing upwards over the parietal bone, as high as the vertex, and others backwards even to the occipital bone. Immediately on entering the cranium the meningeal artery gives minute branches to the ganglion of the fifth nerve and to the dui'a mater near the sella turcica, and a small twig which enters the hiatus Fallopii, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. It also inosculates with branches of the ophthalmic artery. The middle meningeal artery is accompanied by two veins. (c) The small meningeal artery, usually arising from the preceding branch, enters the skull through the foramen ovale, to supply the dura mater in the middle fossa. {d) The 'biferior dental artery, passing downwards, enters the dental canal along with the inferior dental nerve, and subsequently escapes on the face by the mental foramen. As it enters the canal, it gives off the viijlo-hijo'ul branch, which, with the nerve bearing the same name, runs in a gi-oove on the inner surface of the jaw, below the dental foramen, and ramifies on the under surface •of the mylo-hyoid muscle. In its course through the bone, the inferior dental artery gives oft' small offsets, which ascend to enter the minute apertures in the extremities of the fangs of the teeth, and supply the pulp of each ; before emerging at the mental foramen, it sends forwards a branch which supplies the incisor teeth and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. The terminal or facial branches anastomose with the inferior coronary and submental arteries. B. —Branches of the second part.—The branches of this part are chiefly distributed to muscles. (rt) The deep temporal branches, two in number (anterior and posterior), ascending between the temporal muscle and the cranium, supply that muscle, and anastomose with the branches of the other temporal arteries, and with minute branches of the lachrymal artery, through small foramina in the malar bone. iV) ^h.^pterygoid branches, small, short offsets, irregular in number and origin, are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. (<^) The ma.sseteric is a small but regular branch which passes from within outwards, above the sigmoid notch of the lower maxillary bone, to the deep surface of the masseter muscle. It is often joined at its origin with the posterior temporal branch. (rZ) The hnccal branch runs obliquely forwards upon the buccinator muscle with the buccal nerve ; it is distributed to that and other muscles of the cheek, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial artery. C. —Branches of the third part.—These branches, like those of the first series, enter bony foramina or canals. {a) The aUeolar or xuperior mamillary hrancJt, arising near the tuberosity of the maxillary bone, frequently in common with the infra-orbital branch, runs tortuously forwards upon the surface of the upper jaw, and gives off the st/perior dental and other branches which enter the foramina of the tuberosity, and supply the pulps of the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, besides ramifying in the lining membrane of the maxillary sinus. Other small branches supply the gums. (b) The infra-orbital artery runs horizontally forwards into the infra-orbital canal, and having traversed that canal along with the superior maxillary nerve, emerges upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen. Whilst still in the canal, it sends upwards into the orbit small branches, which -enter the inferior rectus and the inferior oblique muscles of the eye and the lach- rymal gland, and others downwards to supply the front feeth. On the face it B B 2