THE SYMPATHETIC NEEVES AND GANGLIA. 640 with those branches. The plexus and ganglion are smaller on the left than on on the right side. Renal Plexus.—The nerves forming the renal plexus, fifteen or twenty in number, emanate for the most part from the outer part of the semilunar gan- glion ; but some are added from the solar and aortic plexuses. More- over, filaments from the smallest splanchnic nerve, and occasionally from the other splanchnic nerves, terminate in the renal plexus. In their course along the renal artery, ganglia of different sizes are formed on these nerves. Lastly, dividing with the branching of the vessel, the nerves follow the renal arteries into the substance of the kidney. On the right side some filaments are fur- nished to the vena cava, behind which the plexus passes with the renal artery ; and others go to form the spermatic plexus. Spermatic Plexus.—This small plexus commences in the renal, but receives in its course along the spermatic artery an accession from the aortic plexus. Continuing downwards to the testis, the spermatic nerves are connected with others which accompany the vas deferens and its artery from the pelvis. In the female, the plexus, like the artery, is distributed to the ovary and the uterus. Coeliac Plexus.—This plexus is of large size, and is derived from the fore part of the great epigastric plexus. It surrounds the coeliac axis in a kind of mem- branous sheath, and subdivides, with the artery, into coronary, hepatic, and splenic plexuses, the branches of which form communications corresponding- with the arches of the arterial anastomosis. The plexus receives offsets from one or more of the splanchnic nerves, and on the left side a branch from the pneumo- gastric nerve is continued into it. (Swan.) The coronary jfle.ru.'i is placed with its artery along the small curvature of the stomach, and tmites with the nerves which accompany the pyloric artery, as well as with branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerves of this plexus enter the coats of the stomach, after running a short distance beneath the peritoneum. The hcj)af ic 2)Ie.i:-us, the largest of the three (divisions of the coeliac plexus, ascends with the hepatic vessels and the bile-duct, and, entering the substance of the liver, ramifies on the branches of the vena portge and the hepatic artery. Offsets from the left pneumo-gastric and diaphragmatic nerves join the hepatic plexus at the left side of the vessels. From this plexus filaments are furnished to the right suprarenal plexus, as well as other secondary plexuses which follow the branches of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a cystic plexus to the gall-bladder ; and there are i)yloric, gastro-ejr'qjloic, and yastro-duodenal plexuses, which unite with coronary, splenic, and mesenteric nerves. The splenic jJlctViis, continued on the splenic artery and its branches into the substance of the spleen, is reinforced at its beginning by branches from the left semilunar ganglion, and by a filament from the right vagus nerve. It furnishes the left ynstro-ep'qylo'ic and pancreatic plexuses, which course along the corre- sponding branches of the splenic artery, and, like the vessels, are distributed to the stomach and pancreas. Superior Mesenteric Plexus.—The plexus accompanying the superior me- senteric artery, whiter in colour and firmer than either of the preceding offsets of the solar plexus envelopes the artery in a membraniform sheath, and receives a prolongation from the junction of the right pneumo-gastric nerve with the coeliac plexus. Near the root of the artery, ganglionic masses (gangl. meseraica) occur in connection with the nerves of this plexus. The offsets of the plexus are in name and distribution the same as the vessels. In their progress to the intestine some of the nerves quit the arteries which first supported them, and are directed forv/ards in the intervals between the vessels. As they proceed they divide, and unite with lateral branches, like the arteries, but without the same regularity : they finally pass upon the intestine along the line of attachment of the mesentery. The Aortic Plexus.—The aortic or intemiesenteric plexus, placed along the abdominal aorta, and occupying the interval between the origin of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, consists, for the most, of two lateral portions,