309 THE DIAPHEAGM. The fibres arise from the bodies of several of the upper lumbar vertebra by two thick crura ; from two arches on each side external to the bodies of the vertebrae, called ligamenta arcuata ; and from the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the six lower ribs. a. The crura arise by tendinous fibres aggregated into two bundles, from the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrjfi, and the interposed fibro-cartilages on the right side, and from the first and second ver- tebr£e on the left side. The tendons of both crura curve forwards and upwards so as to enclose the aorta in an arch between them and the bodies of the vertebrae ; their inner margins are united behind, so that they form a nearly complete fibrous ring or oval loop round that vessel. The muscular fibres of the crura, springing from those tendons in thick bundles, on each side of the aorta, diverge as they pass upwards to the central aponeurosis. The innermost fibres on each side decussate with those of the side opposite, those of the right usually lying anterior to those of the left, and, curving upwards, limit an opening for the transmission of the oesophagus, before ending in the central apo- neurosis. Fig. 221.—The Lower Half of THE Thorax, with pour Lum- bar Vertebra, showing the Diaphragm from before (modi- fied from Luschka). (A. T.) I a, sixtli dorsal vertebra ; 5, fourth lumbar vertebra ; c, ensi- form process of the sternum; d, the aorta descending in front of the lower dorsal vertebr£e ; d', the aorta emerging in the abdomen below the arch formed by the meeting of the jjillars of the dia- phragm ; e, the oesophagus de- scending through its aperture in the diaphi-agm ; /, opening in the tendon of the diaphragm for the inferior vena cava ; 1, central, 2, right, and 3, left division of the trefoil tendon of the diaphragm ; 4, right, and 5, left muscular part, descending from the margins of the tendon to be attached to the ribs ; 6, the right, and 7, the left crus or pillar of the muscle ; 8, to in the three upper intercostal spaces of the right side the internal layer of intercostal muscles inter- rupted towards the vertebral co- lumn, where in the two upper spaces the external layer, 9, 9, is seen ; 10, 10, on the left side, su)3uostal muscles. Fig. 221. l. The Ufjamentum arcmdum internum is a fibrous band which extends from the body to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and sometimes also to that of the second, and arches over the upper part of the psoas muscle. The Ugamentum arcuatum externum extends outwards from the transverse process of the first lumbar