535 THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. The nerve next pierces the orbicularis palpebrarum and occipito-frontalis muscles, furnishing twigs to these muscles and the corrugator supercilii, and after ascending on the forehead, ramifies in the integument. i. The siipraorhital 'branch (external frontal) passes through the supraorbital notch to the forehead, and ends in muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial branches; while in the notch it distributes palijelral filaments to the upper eyelid. The muscular hmnches referred to are comparatively small, and supply the corrug-ator of the eyebrow, the occipito-frontalis, and the orbicular muscle of the eyelids, joining the facial nerve in the last muscle. The cutaneons hvanclics, among which two (outer and inner) may be noticed as the j^rincipal, are placed at first beneath the occipito-frontalis. The outer one, the larger, perforates the tendinous expansion of the muscle, and ramifies in the scalp as far back as the lambdoidal suture. The inner branch reaches the surface sooner than the pre- ceding nerve, and ends in the integument over the parietal bone. The jn^i'icranial tranches arise from the cutaneous nerve beneath the muscle, and end in the peri- cranium covering the frontal and parietal bones. Fii?. 336. Fig. 336.—Nerves op the Or- bit FROM THE Outer Side (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). f Tlie external rectus muscle has .been divided and turned down : 1, the optic nerve ; 2, the trunk of the third nerve ; 3, its upper division passing into the levator palpebraj and superior rectiis ; 4, its long lower branch to the in- ferior oblique muscle; 5, the sixth or abducent nerve joined by twigs from the sympathetic ; 6, the Gasserian gangHon ; 7, ophthalmic nerve ; 8, its nasal branch ; 9, the ophthalmic gang- lion ; 10, its short or motor root; 11, long sensory root from the nasal nerve ; 12, sympathetic twig from the carotid plexus ; 13, cihary nerves passing into the eyeball; 14, frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. Nasal branch.—The nasal branch (oculo-nasalis), separating from its parent trunk in the wall of the cavernous sinus, enters the orbit between the heads of the outer rectus. It then inclines inwards over the optic nerve, beneath the elevator of the upper eyelid and the superior rectus muscle, to the inner wall of the orbit, through which it passes by the anterior internal orbital foramen. In this oblique course across the orbit it furnishes a single filament to the ophthahnic ganglion, two or three (long ciliary) directly to the eyeball; and, at the inner side of the cavity, a considerable branch (infratrochlear), which issues from the orbit at the fore part. On leaving the orbit the nasal nerve is directed transversely inwards to the upper surface of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and passing forwards in a groove at its outer edge, within the cranium, descends by a special aperture, close to the crista galli at the fore part of the plate, to the roof of the nasal fossa, where it divides into two branches, one of which (external or superficial nasal) reaches the integu- ment of the side of the nose, and the other (ramus septi) ramifies in the pituitary membrane.