SACEAL VERTEBRiE. 15 The articular processes are thick and stron^^. Their articular surfaces are vertical; those of the superior pair concave, look backwards and inwards, those of the inferior, convex, look forwards and outwards. The superior pair are further apart than the inferior, and embrace the inferior pair of the vertebra above them. From each superior articular process, a tubercle projects backwards, which corresponds to the internal tubercles of the dorsal transverse processes, and is called the mammiUary process (metapophysis, Owen). The foramen is large and triangular, or widely lozenge-shaped. Sacral Vertebrae.—These by their union in the adult, form the OS sacrum, but in youth they present the elements of five distinct vertebrJB. The sacrum is placed below the last lumbar vertebra, and articulates laterally with the two ossa innominata, thus completing together with the coccyx the wall of the pelvis above and behind. The uppermost vertebra is the largest, those which follow become rapidly smaller and the fifth is rudimentary. Hence the sacrum has the form of a triangle with its base directed upwards. It is concave and smooth in front, convex and uneven behind. The direction of its surfaces is Yery oblique, its ventral aspect looking somewhat downwards, and forming above at the place where it joins the last lumbar vertebra, the projection termed jjromoiforf/. The dorsal or posterior surface looks slightly upwards. Fig. 11. Fig. 11.—Sacrum op the Male, viewed prom BEFORE. I 1, 1, four transverse ridges, indicating the place of ■original separation of the bodies of the five sacral vertebrae ; 2, anterior sacral foramina ; 3, 4, lateral surface ; 5, a notch which, with the coccyx, forms a passage for the fifth sacral nerve ; 6, oval surface of -the upper part of the sacrum for articulation with the body of the last lumbar vertebra ; 7, superior articular processes ; 8, inferior oval surface for articulation ■with the coccyx ; +, inferior lateral angle. The ventral surface is concave from above downwards, and slightly so from side to side. It is traversed horizontally by four ridges, which indicate the places of union of the bodies of the five vertebras, and at the extremities of which are situated on each side four foramina called anterior sacral These foramina widen externally into grooves, and diminish in size from above downwards. The dorsal surface is convex, very uneven and somewhat narrower than the ventral. It presents along the median line four small eminences, the spinous processes, usually more or less connected, so as to form a ridge. Below the last spinous process is a triangular opening, the termination of the spinal canal, the lateral margins of which are formed by the imperfect laminse of the fifth sacral vertebra, and present •a pair of tubercles, the sacral cornua, which project downwards, and articulate with the cornua or horns of the coccyx. On each side of the ridge of spines the surface is smooth and hollowed in the position of the united laminge, and beyond this surface are two rows of eminences, the inner of which corresponds to the articular and mammiUary pro- "cesses of the lumbar vertebrae, the outer to the transverse processes.