445 THE INTERXAL PUDIC ARTERY. lies externally to the ischio-rectal fossa and internally to the obturator infeernns muscle, and beneath the triangular ligament it is crossed by the deep transverse perineal muscle. Branches. (r?) The 'mfcrlor or external hcrmovTlioulal arteries, two or three in number, incline inwards from the pudic artery as it passes outside the ischio- rectal fossa above the tuber ischii. These small vessels run across the ischio- rectal fossa, through the fat in that space, and are distributed to the sphincter and levator ani muscles, and to the parts surroiuiding- the anus. {h) The sv2>erjictul 2)erlneal artery, a long, slender, but regular vessel, supplies Fig. 285. Fig. 285.—View of the Distribution of the Arteries to the Viscera of the Male Pelvis, as seen on the removal of the Left Os Innominatum, &c. (from R. Quain). ^ a, left external oblique muscle of the abdomen divided; h, internal oblique ; c, trans- versalis ; d, d, the parts of the divided rectus muscle ; e, psoas magnus muscle divided ; /, placed on the left auricular surface of the sacrum, points by a line to the sacral plexus of nerves ; g, placed on the os pubis, sawn through a little to the left of the symphysis, points to the divided spermatic cord ; li, the cut root of the crus penis ; i, the bulb of the urethra ; external sphincter ani muscle ; I, spine of the ischium, to which is attached the short sacro-sciatic ligament ; m, the parietal peritoneum ; n, the upper part of the urinary bladder ; n', n', the left vas deferens descending towards the vesicula seminalis ; n", the ureter ; o, the intestines; 1, the common iliac at the place of its division into external and internal iliac arteries ; 2, left external iliac artery ; 3, internal iliac ; 4, obliterated hjq^ogastric artery, over which the vas deferens is seen passing, with the superior vesical artery below it ; 5, middle vesical artery ; 6, inferior vesical artery, giving branches to the bladder, and descending on the prostate gland and to the back of the pubis ; 7, placed on the sacral plexus, j^oints to the common trunk of the pudic and sciatic arteries ; close above 7, the gluteal artery is seen cut short ; 8, sciatic artery cut short as it is escaping from the pelvis ; 9, placed on the rectum, points to the padic artery as it is about to pass behind the spine of the ischium ; 9', on the lower part of the rectum, points to the inferior hcemorrhoidal branches; 9", on the IDerinseum, indicates the superficial perineal branches ; 9"', placed on the prostate gland, marks the pudic artery as it gives off the arteries of the bulb and of the crus penis ; 10,' placed on the middle part of the rectum, indicates the superior hsemorrhoidal arteries as they descend upon that viscus.