AUTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 156 Fig. 142.—Transverse Section of the Sy- Fig. 142. The two rows of carpal bones are united by dorsal, palmar, and lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments are placed one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border of the carpus ; the former connects the scaphoid bone with the trapezium, the latter the cuneiform with the unciform. The dorsal ligaments consist of fibres passing in Yarious directions ; the palmar ligaments are chiefly composed of fibres converg- ing towards the os magnum. The bones of the first row, the pisiform bones excepted, are united by interosseous and by dorsal and palmar ligaments. The interosseous ligaments, placed on the sides of the semilunar bone on a level with its superior surface, connect it with the scaphoid and cunei- form bones, thus completing the inferior wall of the radio-carpal joint. The dorsal and palmar ligaments, each two in number, extend trans- versely on the dorsal and palmar surfaces from the scaphoid bone to the semilunar, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform. The bones of the second row are connected by similar means. The dorsal and palmar ligaments, each three in number, pass transversely between the contiguous bones. The interosseous ligaments are gene- rally three (but sometimes only two) in number, a strong ligament being placed between the os magnum and unciform bones, another between the trapezoid and trapezium, and a slender ligament between the OS magnum and trapezoid. A small interosseous ligament is also sometimes found between the os magnum and the scaphoid. (Fig. 142.) The synovial cavity of the carpal articulations is extensive and complicated. Passing between the two rows of carpal bones, it sends novial Cavities op the Inferior Radio- ulnar, Radio-Carpal, Intercarpal, and Carpo-Metacarpal Articulations. (A. T.) i 1, points to the triangular fibro-cartilagc below the ulna ; 2, placed on the ulna, points to the cavity of the sacciform synovial mem- brane ; 3, external lateral, and 4, internal lateral ligament, and between them the synovial cavity of the wrist ; 5, scaphoid bone ; 6, semi- lunar ; 7, cuneiform ; 8, 8, upper portion, and 8', 8', lower portion of the general synovial cavity of the intercarpal and carpo-metacarpal articulations ; between .5 and 6, and 6 and 7, the interosseous ligaments are seen separating the carpal articular cavity from the wrist- joint ; between the four carpal bones of the lower row, and between the magnum and scaphoid, the interosseous ligaments are also shown ; the upper division of the synovial cavity communicates with the lower between 10 and 11, and between 11 and 12 ; x , marks one of the three interosseous metacarpal liga- ments ; 9', separate synovial cavity of the first carpo-metacarpal articulation ; 13, first, and 14, fifth, metacarpal bone. ^. Note. It is to be observed that in this figure, and in others of a like kind which represent the joint-cavities, the white or black lines indicating the synovial membranes are, for the sake of clearness, generally represented as passing ov€r the surfaces of the articular cartilages, although this is not the case in nature. These lines therefore must be held to represent merely the whole continuity of the articular, or, as they are often called, the synovial siu'faces.