INTEROSSEOUS ARTERIES. 409 an inch in length, which arises below the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, beneath the flexor sublimis, and passes backwards to reach the upper border of the interosseous ligament, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous descends upon the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, accompanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve and venie comites, and overlapped by the contiguous borders of the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis muscles. It continues its course directly downwards as far as the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle, then pierces the interosseous ligament, and descends to the back of the carpus. The anterior interosseous artery gives off the following- branches :— (rt) The artery of the median nerve, or the median artery, a long- slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve and sends offsets into its substance. This artery is sometimes much enlarged, and in that case it presents several pecu- liarities to be hereafter noticed. (/>) Mu.senlar branches to the flexor profundus, flexor longus pollicis, and pro- nator quadratus muscles. (<:') The nutrient arteries of the shafts of the radius and ulna, which diverging from one another, enter the oblique foramina in those bones to be distributed to the medullary membrane in their interior. (c7) An anterior iyiosculating branch, given off before the artery pierces the interosseous membrane, and descending beneath the pronator quadratus muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. (e) Terminal twigs inosculating with the posterior carpal arteries. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through the interval left between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interos- seous ligament, and continuing its course downwards along the fore-arm, between the superficial and deep layers of extensor muscles, gives branches to them, and reaches the carpus considerably diminished in size. In addition to muscular branches, it gives off the following :— (r/) The jMi.sterior ijiterosseous recurrent, which passes directly upwards, covered by the anconeus, to reach the interval between the olecranon and external con- dyle ; at which place it divides into several offsets which anastomose with the superior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent. Qi) Terminal branches, Avhich anastomose with the posterior or terminal branch of the anterior interosseous artery, and with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. Muscular Branches of the ulnar artery are distributed to the muscles in the course of the vessel along the fore-arm : some of these perforate the interosseous ligament to reach the extensor muscles. The posterior ulnar carpal branch, of variable size, arises a little above the pisiform bone, and winding back under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, reaches the dorsal surface of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons. Its branches are the following :— in) A branch anastomoses with the posterior carpal artery derived from the radial, so as to form the posterior carpal arch, and from this arch are derived the second and third, dorml intero,s.seot/s- arteries, which descend on the spaces between the third and fourth and the fourth and fifth metacarj^al bones, and are reinforced at the upper ends of those spaces by anastomoses with the posterior perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. (h) A branch runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Sometimes