SUriXATOE EADII LOXGUS. 215 quadi-atus. Only one lialf of the flexor profundus digitonim is supplied with nerves from the median, the other half, tog-ether with the whole of the flexor carpi ulnaris, receives twigs from the ulnar nerve. SUPINATOR AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES. The muscles of this group are, like those of the front of the forearm, divided into a superficial and a deep layer. The SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES are six in num- ber, viz., the supinator longus, the exten- Fig. 176. sores carpi radiales longior and brevior, the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The supinator radii longus muscle arises from the upper two-thirds of the ex- ternal ridge of the humerus, and the ex- ternal inter-muscular septum. Its fibres form a thin fleshy mass which descends upon the anterior and outer border of the forearm, about the middle of which they end in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the external border of the radius, near the base of the styloid process. Fig. 176.—Superficial Muscles of the Forearm AND Hand, seen from behind. (A. T.) I d, olecranon ; e, external condylar eminence ; /, lower end of the ulnar ; 8, main tendon of the triceps extensor cubiti ; 8", its inner head ; 9, anconeus; 10, part of brachialis anticus ; 11, suinnator longus ; 12, extensor carpi radialis longior; 13, brevior; 14, extensor communis digitorum ; 15, extensor carpi ulnaris ; 15', its insertion into the fifth metacarpal bone ; +, between 14 and 15, extensor minimi digiti ; 16, origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris by an aponeurosis from the back of the ulna; 17, extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis ; 17', its insertion into the first metacarpal bone ; 18, extensor primi internodii pollicis ; 18', its insertion into the first xjhalanx ; + and X, posterior annular ligament of the carpus or retinaculum of the extensor tendons ; at t, the ten- dons 'of the long and short radial extensors ; at +, the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti; 19, tendon of the extensor secundi internodii ; 20, is placed on the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone, close to the insertion of the radial extensors of the carpus : in the hand, the dorsal interossei muscles are shown, and on the middle finger the insertion of the exten- sor tendons. JRelations.—This muscle is covered only by skin and fascia, except at its insertion, where two of the extensor tendons of the thumb lie superficial to it. Above, the brachialis anticus is in contact with its inner surface and the radial extensors of the carpus are beneath it. It forms the outer boundary of the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and in the forearm it rests upon the supinator brevis, flexor sublimis digitorum, pronator teres, radial artery, musculo-spiral and radial nerves. Varieties.—These are neither great nor numerous in this muscle. One of the