THE ABSORBENT VESSELS. 5U upwards behind the costal cartilages to terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the opposite side in the right lymphatic duct. They receive branches from the upper surface of the liver, and small branches from the anterior parts of the intercostal spaces. The inter- costal lymphatics, passing backwards in each intercostal space, receive, as they approach the spine, branches coming forward through the inter- transverse space, and enter the intercostal glands, through the efferent ducts of which their contents are poured on both sides of the body into the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the lungs, like those of other organs, form two sets, one being superficial, the other deep-seated. Those at the surface run beneath the pleura, where they form a network by their anasto- moses. Their number is considerable, but they are sometimes difficult of demonstration. The deep lymphatics run with the pulmonary blood- vessels. Both superficial and deep lymphatics converge to the root of the lung, and terminate in the bronchial glands. From these, two or three trunks issue, which ascend along the trachea to the root of the neck, and terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right in one of the right lymphatic trunks. The lymphatics of the heart follow the coronary arteries and veins from the apex of the organ towards the base, where they communicate with each other, and those of each side are gathered into one trunk. The trunk from the rigid side, running upwards over the aortic arch between the innominate and left carotid arteries to reach the trachea, ascends to the root of the neck, and terminates in the right lymphatic duct. The vessel from the left side proceeding along the pulmonary artery to its bifurcation, passes through some lymphatic glands behind the arch of the aorta, and ascends at the side of the trachea to ter- minate in the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the oesophagus, unlike those of the rest of the alimentary canal, form only one layer, which lies internal to the mus- cular coat. They are connected with glands in the neighbourhood, and after having communicated by anastomoses with the lymphatics of the lungs, at and near the roots of those organs, they terminate in the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the thymus gland are numerous. According to Astley Cooper, two large vessels proceed downwards from them on each cornu, and terminate in the jugular veins by one or more orifices on each side. (Anatomy of the Thymus Gland, p. 14.) LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. In the upper limb, as in the lower, the lymphatics are arranged in a deep and a superficial set. These two sets of vessels, together with the lymphatics of the surface of the greater part of the back, and those of the mamma and pectoral muscles, converge to the axillary glands. The lymphatic glands found in the upper limb below the axilla are neither large nor numerous ; a few, however, are found in the course of the brachial artery, and even of the arteries of the forearm ; and one or more small glands are found in connection with the superficial