'MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 27i oris, by the terminal fibres of tlie platysma myoides, and by the masseter and z3^gomatici. from wliich it is separated by a quantity of soft adipose tissue of a peculiar character. Opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, its fibres give passage to the duct of the parotid gland. The depressor anguli oris, or triangularis oris muscle, is broad at its origin from the external oblique liue of the lower jaw ; passing- upwards it is collected into a narrower bundle, w4iich is inserted into the orbicularis at the angle of the mouth. delations.—This muscle is covered by the skin, and at its insertion, by the zygomaticus major, under which its fibres pass ; it conceals part of the buc- cinator and of the depressor of the lower lip. Variety.—The transversalis menti (Santorini) is a small band of muscular fibres sometimes found arising from the inner border of the depressor, and curving downwards and inwards below the chin towards the mesial line of the neck. The depressor labii inferioris, or quadratiis nienti muscle, arises from the lower jaw by a line of attachment extending from near the sym- physis to a little beyond the mental foramen; thence it ascends with an inward inclination, unites with its fellow, and blending with the orbicularis oris is inserted into the lower lip. Its fibres are intermixed with much adipose matter. The levator lalbii inferioris, or levator menti muscle, arises by a narrow head from the incisor pit of the lower jaw, and, expanding in a nearly vertical plane, is directed downwards, and slightly forwards and inwards, between the depressors of the lower lip, to the integu- ment of the chin. Nerves.—All the superficial muscles of the face previously descrilDed receive their motor nerves from one source, viz., the facial motor, or portio dura of the seventh pair, twigs from this widely distributed nerve being sent even into the occijjitalis muscle. The expression of the jDassions by the varying state of the skin of the forehead and eyebrows, the eyelids, nostrils and mouth, the closure of the eyelids, the dilatation of the nostrils in breathing, and the move- ments of the lips in the prehension of food and otherwise, together with the movements of the scalp and external ear, when they are possible,—are all under the influence of the facial nerve, which has thus been reckoned as a nerve of respiration and expression. Actions.—The orbicularis oris acting alone draws the lips together in both the vertical and transverse directions. Acting in conjunction with the bucci- nators it closes the lips, while at the same time they are elongated transversely. Its facial portion acting alone projects the lips. The labial portion, when acting in <?oncert with the converging muscles, tightens the lips, one or both, against the teeth. The convergent muscles each draw their oral points of insertion in a direction coiTesponding to that of their muscular fibres. The common elevator of the lip and nose and the upper part of the orbicularis oris act on both the upper lip and the ala of the nose together—the one elevating the other depressing them. When the cheeks are distended with air, and the aperture of the lips narrowed, it is by the action of the buccinator that the forced expulsion of the air is efi^ected and regulated. The levator menti not only draws upwards the integument of the chin, but it also protrudes the lower lip, as in pouting. The muscles attached to the angles of the mouth are, along with others of the face, intimately connected with the expression of the passions : those which pass downwards not only raise the upper lij), but also push upwards the cheek, and thus elevate the margin of the lower eyelid, as in mirth : and those which descend from the angle of the mouth depress that part, as in grief. (On the action of the facial muscles may be consulted, more especially, Sir Charles Bell, " Anatomy and Philosophy of Expression," and Duchene, " Mechanisme de la Physionomie Humaine,"' Paris, 1SG2, and " Physiol, des Mouvements," &;c., 18G7.)