207 TRICEPS EXTENSOR AND ANCONEUS ]\IUSCLES. Yening between the tendon and the most prominent part of the process. The middle or long head arises from the lower part of the glenoid cavity and an adjoining rough portion of the outer border of the scapula, by a tendon which spreads over the sides of the muscular structure proceed- ing from it. This head forms the middle and superficial part of the common mass, presenting a long flat tendon on its posterior surface inferiorly. The external head takes origin by tendinous and fleshy fibres along a line extending from the insertion of the teres minor, downwards on the outer border of the humerus, as low as tlie musculo- spiral groove, and from an aponeurotic arch, formed by the external intermuscular septum, as it crosses the upper part of the groove : its fibres, whicli are comparatively short, descend obliquely to be inserted into the tendon of the middle part. The internal or deep head, the shortest of the three, arises from the whole posterior surface of the humerus, beginning on the external aspect below the musculo-spiral groove, and on the inner aspect of the arm reaching by a pointed process as high as the insertion of the teres major : it also rises from the internal intermuscular septum in all its length, and from the inferior portion of the external septum. Some of its lower fibres are inserted immediately into the olecranon, but the greater part of them join the deep surface of the common tendon. No muscular fibres arise from the musculo-spiral groove itself. Ilelatlons.—The long head of the triceps lies between the two teres muscles above, and is in contact with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The musculo- spiral nerve, and the superior profunda ai-tery, are deeply imbedded in the muscle, and in the musculo-spiral groove, pass between the inner and outer heads. Varieties.—The most frequent varieties of the triceps muscles are the following, viz. :—1, an additional or fourth head arising from the inner part of the humerus, above or near the inner head ; and 2, a slip of connection between the triceps and the latissimus dorsi, corresponding with the dn/\si-rjjif>vr7draris or acce.f.wriii.s- ■tru'ipifl which is common among quadrumana, and exists in many other mam- mals. The epHrochleo-nnconcm of Wenzel Gruber is a small muscle observed by that author, Wood, and others, rising from behind the inner condyle, and inserted into the olecranon. Su'banconeus.—On removing the triceps from the lower part of the humerus, some muscular fibres will be found passing from that part of the bone to the capsule of the elbow-joint. These fibres, which are analogous to the subcrureus in the lower limb, have been described as distinct from the triceps under the name subanconeus. The anconeus muscle, although placed chiefly below the elbow and in the forearm, is intimately connected with the triceps, and may be most appropriately associated in description with that muscle. It arises by a narrow tendon fi*om the extremity of the outer condylar eminence of the humerus, at the posterior aspect. From this the fibres diverge from one another, the upper being transverse, the rest passing down- wards with increasing degrees of obliquity, and are inserted into the olecranon on its radial aspect, and into the adjacent impression on the upper third of the shaft of the ulna. Its superior fibres are parallel to the lowest fibres of the internal head of the triceps, and are generally in contact with them. Belatiom.—This muscle is subcutaneous in its whole extent. Its deep surface is in contact with the synovial membrane and external ligaments of the elbow- joint. Yarietu's.—Tlie anconeus varies chiefly in being more or less united to the triceps or the extensor carpi ulnaris.