DIRECT INGUINAL IIERNIiE. 339 followinj^ the whole course of the inguinal canal, in the manner of the hernia above described, the viscas in this case is protruded from the Fig. 236,—Internal View of the Vessels belated to the Groin. A portion of tlie wall of the abdo- men and pelvis of the left side, seen from behind. 1, symphysis of the l^ubis; 2, irregular surface of the hip-bone separated from the sacrum ; 3, iscliial spine ; 4, ischial tuberosity ; 5, obturator internus ; 6, rectus, covered with an elongation from 7, fascia transversalis ; 8, fascia iliaca covering the iliacus muscle ; 9, psoas magnus cut ; 10, iliac artery; 11, iliac vein; 12, epigastric artery and its two accompanying veins; 13, vessels of the spermatic cord, entering the abdominal wall at the internal ring the vas deferens joining them from below ; 14, two obturator veins ; 15, the obliterated umbilical artery. Fig. 236. \il III abdomen to the groin directly- through the lower end of the canal, at the external abdomi- ^4^-^--' nal ring. At the part of the abdominal wall through which the direct inguinal hernia finds there is recognised on its posterior aspect a triangular 7'^ P.J its way, interval, Fig. 237. Fig. 237.—A Direct Inguinal Her- nia ON THE Left Side, covered BY THE Conjoined Tendon of the Internal Oblique and Trans- versalis Muscles. 1, aponeurosis of the external ob- lique ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle ; 4, fascia transversalis ; 5, spermatic cord ; 6, the hernia. A small -part of the epi- gastric artery is seen through an •opening made in the transversalis fascia. the sides of which are formed by the epigastric artery, and / the margin of the rectus mus- €le, and the base by Poupart's ^ i |( ligament. It is commonly \ named the triangle of Hessel- , bach. Through this space the ^ hernia is protruded, carrying before it a sac from the fossa of the peritoneum internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery ; and it is in general forced onwards directly into the external abdominal ring. The coverings of this hernia, taking them in the order which they are successively applied to the protruded viscus, are the following:— 2 2