OBLIQUE INGUINAL IIEEXIiE. 337 Fig. 234. Fig. 234.—The Inguinal Canal and Femoral Sueatii fully exposed. The lower part of the external oblique has been removed (with the exception of Poupart's ligament), a portion of the internal oblique raised, and the transversalis muscle and fascia brought into view. The femoral artery and vein are seen to a small extent, the fascia lata having been turned aside and the sheath of blood-vessels laid open. 1, external oblique muscle ; 2, internal oblique ; 2', part of same turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle. Upon the last-named muscle is seen a branch of the circumflex iliac artery, with its companion veins ; 4, transversalis fascia ; 5, spermatic cord covered with the infundibuliform fascia. 6, upper angle of the iliac part of fascia lata ; 7, the sheath of the femoral vessels ; 8, femoral artery ; 9, femoral vein ; 10, saphenous vein ; 11, a vein joining it. length of the caual, passes at once through its posterior wall at a point opposite the external abdominal ring, the hernia is named, from its course, direct, or, from its relation to the epigastric artery, internal. Oblique inguinal hernia.—In the common form of this hernia the protruded viscus carries before it a covering of peritoneum (the sac of the hernia), derived from the outer fossa of that serous membrane ; and, in passing along the inguinal canal to the scrotum, it is succes- sively clothed with the coverings given to the spermatic cord from the abdominal parietes. The hernia and its sac lie directly in front of the vessels of the spermatic cord, and do not extend below the testis, even when the disease is of long standing. When the hernia does not extend beyond the ingninal canal, it is distinguished by the name hiihonocclc : and when it reaches the scrotum, it is commonly named from that circumstance scrotal hernia. There are two other varieties of olilique inguinal hernia, in which the peculiarity depends on the condition of the process of peritoneum that accom- panies the testis when this organ is moved from the abdomen. In ordinary circumstances the part of the peritoneum connected immediately with the testis, becomes separated after birth from the general cavity of that serous vol, I. z