487 Fig. Bll. Fig. 311.—View of the Superficial Veins at cutaneous veins on the front of the CUTANEOUS VEINS OP THE AEM. The basilic vein, usually of considerable size, asccndinf^ along the inner border of the biceps muscle, in front of the brachial artery, passes through the fascia below the middle of the arm, and finally unites with one of the vena; comites of that vessel, or with the axillary vein, which it chiefly forms. THE bend of the Arm (from K,. Quain). .'5 The full description of this figure Avill he fouinl at p. 400. The following numbers indicate the veins:—At 1 and 2, the fascia is opened in front of the brachial artery and its accompanying veins ; the inner vena comes, marked 1, has been divided, the outer marked 2, is entire; + , the median nerve; 3, the basilic vein; 3', the ulnar veins ; 4, the cephalic vein ; 4', one of the radial veins; 5, the median vein : 5 to 4', median cephalic; 5 to 3', median basilic. The median cutaneous vein results from the union, on the anterior part of the forearm, of several branches. It is a short trunk of variable length, which ascends between the ulnar and radial forearm, and terminates beneath the hollow in front of the elbow by dividing into the median basilic and median cephalic branches, which diverge up- wards from each other. Close to its bifurcation it receives a short branch, the deep median vein, which pierces the fascia to meet it, and forms a communi- cation between it and the deep veins accompanying the arteries. The median basilic vein, inclining inwards to join the basilic vein, passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the fibrous expansion given by the tendon of the biceps muscle to the fascia covering the flexor muscles ; it is crossed by branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The median cephalic vein, directed outwards, unites with the cephalic vein. Branches of the external cutaneous nerve descend be- hind it. Varieties.—Tlie ceplialic vein frequently terminates in the external jug-ular instead of the axillary vein ; usually running- up over the clavicle, but sometimes below that bone. In one case it passed below the clavicle but sent a branch over, which also opened into the external jugular, and thus foi-med a venous ring round the clavicle (Nuhn). In other cases the cephalic is merely united to the external jugular by a communicating branch {Ji/gxlo-rejjhnlic) which runs up over the clavicle. In two cases which occuiTcd in the dissecting-room of Glasgow University, vrinter, 1S72-73, this jugulo-cephalic branch instead of pass- ing over the clavicle passed right through the bone, accompanied in one of the cases by a small artery. DEEP VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The brachial artery and its various branches in the arm, forearm,