427 THE HEPATIC AETERY. transverse fissure ; 6, gastro-duodenal artery ; 6', its continuation as the right gastro- epiploic ; 7, on tiie left cms !ot the diaphragm, the splenic artery ; 8, its left gastro- epiploic branch i^roceeding round the great curvature of the stomach to communicate ■with the right gastro-epiploic artery ; both of these vessels are seen giving long epiploic as well as gastric branches. The sifj)('rior 2f'inercatico-di/odenal brandi descends along the inner marg-in of the duodenum, between it and the pancreas, and, after furnishing several branches to both these organs, anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal from the superior mesenteric artery. (c) The c)/sttc artery, given off by the right hepatic when crossing behind the cystic duct, turns upwards and forwards upon the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two smaller branches, of which one ramifies between the coats on the depending surface, the other between the bladder and the liver. "Varieties.—The hepatic ai-tery sometimes arises from the superior mesenteric artery, or from the aorta itself. Accessory hepatic arteries are often met v.'ith, Pig. 277.—The Arteries of the Stomach, Duodentjm, Pancreas, and Spleen (from Tiedemann). ^ The stomach and liver are turned upwards so as to show their lower surface. The jejunum is di\dded at its commencement, a, lower surface of the right lobe of the liver ; by left lobe ; c, cardiac orifice of the stomach ; d, pylorus; e, first part, /, second or descending part, and f/, third or lower part of'the duodenum ; h, commencement of the jejunum emerging from behind the superior mesenteric artery ; i, the head, and l\ the body of the pancreas ; /, the spleen ; 1, 1, right and left inferior phrenic arteries passin- from the aorta upon the crura of the diaphragm; 2, placed on the aorta close to the cceliac axis ; 3, 3', the coronary arteiy ; 4, common hepatic ; 4', its right branch ; 4", cystic branch ; 5, gastro-duodenal giving the inferior pyloric ; 5, on the great curvature of the stomach, the right gastro-epiploic ; 6, superior pancreatico-duodenal ; 7, common splenic ; 7', proper splenic ; 7", one of the vasa brevia to the stomach ; 8, S, left gastro- epiploic artery uniting with the right on the great curvature of the stomach ; 9, trunk of the superior mesenteric artery, giving oflF the inferior pancreatico-duodenal ; 10, inferior laesenteric. Fig. 277.