THE COSTO-STERXAL AUTICULATIOXS. 143 Fi- 129. IS much strengthened by thick periosteum, and by the radiating bands of the costo-sternal ligaments ah*eady mentioned. Fig. 129.—Articulations op the Sternum, Clavicle, and Ribs, AS seen from before. (A. T., after Arnold.) ^ On the right of the middle line the anterior ligaments are shown ; on the left side, the front parts of the clavicle, sternum and costal cartilages have been removed so as "to display the ai-ticiilar cavities. 1 to 10, the anterior extremities of the ribs from the first to the tenth inclusive, on the right side ; 1' to 10', the costal cai-tilages of the left side from the first to the tenth; at 1', the direct union of the first ■costal cartilage with the sternum is shown ; at the sternal ends of the -cartilages marked 2' to 6', the small double synovial cavities are shown opened; between the costal cartilages on the right side, ligamentous bands are shown stretching over the inter- costal spaces ; and on the left side, by a section, small synovial cavities are shown between the adjacent ■edges of the intercostal cartilages from the 5th to the 9th ; on the front of the right half of the :sternum the radiating anterior costo- sternal ligaments are shown ; 11, the ensiform process ; 12, 12', the inter-clavicular ligament ; and be- low 12, the antei'ior sterno-clavicu- iar ligament ; below 12', the sterno- •clavicular articulation is opened, showing the interarticular fibro- ■cartilage and double synovial cavity ; 13, the costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament. Movements of the Ribs.—Eacii rib is capable of a certain amount of eleva- tion and depression, and of rotation on an axis passing between its vertebral .and sternal ends. The heads of the ribs are, however, bound down by the interarticular ligaments so tightly as to prevent any gliding motion at the attachments of those ligaments, which may therefore be regarded as the feied points round which, the ribs are moved. When the vertebral column is bent forwards, the ribs are depressed; and when the column is rotated, the ribs of that side towards which the upper part of the trunk is turned are raised, and those of the other side con-espondingly depressed. The move- ment of the tubercle of the rib on the transverse process is of a gliding- description, in the circumference of a circle of which the head of the rib is the ■centre : and as the plane ia which the opposed surfaces of the costo-transverse articulation in most instances lie looks upwards and backwards, the ribs are moved backwards as well as upwards in inspiration, and forwards and down- wards in expiration. The combined movements of the thoracic walls in respii-a- tion will be described along with the actions of the intercostal muscles. It is suflacient at present to state that the elevation and rotation of the ribs in inspi- ration are the maia causes of the antero-posterior and transverse enlargement ■of the chest. The angular movement is greatest in the upper and least in the lowest ribs.