VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 496 anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and in the thigh one or more branches pass between it and the femoral vein. This long vein has a variable number of valves. Sometimes six have been counted ; in other cases only four or even two. It contains more Fk. 315. in its course throug-h the thio:h than in the leg. ■ Fig. 315.—SuPEKFiciAL Veins op the Front and Inner Side of the Lower Limb. 1, the saplienons aperture of the fascia lata ; a, super- ficial epigastric vein ; h, external pudic ; c, superficial cir- cumflex iliac ; d, external or short sai^henous beginning on the dorsum of the foot (see Fig. 316). Tributaries.—The long saphenous vein is joined in its course by numerous cutaneous vessels. Close to its termination it receives, besides a considerable anterior branch, the liiiperfic'uil ejyii/astrlc, externnl 1) }idic, and .snjyerf cial circumjie-v iliar veins correspond- ing- severally to arterial branches of the same name. It is also usually joined near its termination by a 2) osterior branch of considerable size, coming from the posterior and inner part of the thigh. The external or short saphenous vein pro- ceeds from branches, which arise along the outer side of the dorsum of the foot. It passes behind the outer ankle, and ascends the leg along the border of the tendo Achillis and on the belly of the gastrocnemius muscle, accom- panied by the external saphenous nerve ; run- ning upwards between the heads of the gastro- cnemius, it unites with the popliteal vein. Oppo- site the ankle and along the leg it communicates with the deep veins : and it receives superficial accessory veins from the outer part of the foot and the back of the leg. Variety.—The short saphenous vein sometimes issues from the popliteal space, and winding round the inside of the thigh, opens into the long saphenous THE DEEP VEINS OP THE LOWEE LIMB. The deep veins accompany the arteries and their branches, following exactly their distribu- tion. Those below the knee, being for the most part disposed in pairs, and presenting the dis- position described in the corresponding veins of the upper limb, are named the vense comites of the vessels with which they are associated. The vense comites of the arteries of the leg, namely, the anterior and posterior tibial veins (the latter having previously received the peroneal), unite near the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and form by their junction the popliteal vein. The valves of the deep veins of the leg are very numerous,—ten or twelve being sometimes found between the heel and the knee.