THE COSTO-SPINAL ARTICULATIONS. HI to that below. In the first, eleyenth, and twelfth ribs, this ligament is inserted into only one vertebral body, and into no fibro-cartilage. Fig. 126.—The 5th, Gth, 7th, 8th, AND 9th DoKSAL YERTEBRiE, WITH PARTS OP THE 6tH, 7tH AND 8tH Ribs, from the right side and PRONT. (A. T.) g The 9tli rib has been removed to show the articular surfaces of the ver- tebrre corresponding to it ; 3 & 4, the heads of the 6th and 7th ribs, from ■which the stellate ligaments are seen spreading over the two adjacent verte- bral bodies and intervertebral substance; 5, the head of the 8th rib, from which the stellate ligament has been removed, so as to expose the upper and lower synovial cavities, and between them the interarticular ligament ; 6, lower, and 6', upper facet of the costo-central articulation ; 7, posterior costo-trans- verse ligament ; 7', the costo-transverse synovial cavity ; 7", the costo-transverse articular facet ; 8, superior costo-trans- verse ligament ; 9, superior articular process of the 5th vertebra ; 9', inferior of the 9th. Fiji. 126. The interarticular liga- ment is a thin and short band of fibres, which passes trans- versely from the ridge separating the two articular surfaces on the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and divides the articu- Fig. 127.—Five Dorsal VERTEBRiG, with portions Fig. 127. OP the corresponding Ribs. | 1 and 2 are placed on the laminae of the vertebrae, close to the interspinous ligaments ; 3, ligamentum sub- flavum ; 4, anterior costo-transverse ligament ; 5, poste- rior costo-transverse ligament. lation into two parts, each lined by a separate synovial membrane. The ligament does not exist in the articulations of the first, eleventh, or twelfth ribs, as these ribs are each attached to only one vertebral body by a single syno- vial joint. The COSTO-TRANSVERSE ARTICULATION unites the tubercle and neck of the rib to the corresponding transverse process by a synovial joint and ligaments, and by a longer ligament to the transverse process of the vertebra above. The posterior costo-transverse ligament is a distinct band extending outwards from the posterior part of the summit of the trans- verse process to the rough external part of the tubercle of the rib. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse ligament, consists of a series of short parallel fibres, which unite the neck of the rib to the anterior surface of the contiguous transverse process. These