592 NEEVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Some similarity will be observed between the course and distribution of the median and ulnar nerves. Neither gives any offset in the arm. Together they supply all the muscles in front of the forearm and in the hand, and together they supply the skin of the palmar surface of the hand, and impart tactile sensibility to all the fingers. Varieties.—One or both heads of tlie median may be double, and the outer head may pass behind instead of in front of the brachial artery. (Turner.) The whole nerve has frequently been seen jjassing- behind the brachial artery. (Turner, Gruber.) Gruber has also noticed one case in which the nerve entered the forearm after passing completely over the pronator teres muscle. Musculo-spiral nerve.—The musculo-spiral nerve, the largest offset from the brachial plexus, occupies chiefly the back part of the limb, and supplies nerves to the extensor muscles, as well as to the skin. Arising behind the axillary vessels from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, of which it is the principal continuation and the only one prolonged into the arm, it soon turns backwards into the musculo- spiral groove, and, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, pro- ceeds along that groove, between the humerus and the triceps muscle, to the outer side of the limb. It then pierces the external inter- muscular septum, and descends in the interval between the supinator lorgus and the brachialis anticus muscle to the level of the outer condyle of the humerus, where it ends by dividing into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. Of these, the radial is altogether a cuta- neous nerve, and the posterior interosseous is the muscular nerve of the back of the forearm. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve may be classified according as they arise on the inner side of the humerus, behind that bone, or on the outer side. A. Internal branches :— a. Muscular hvancJies for the inner and middle heads of the triceps. That for the inner portion of the muscle is long and slender; it lies by the side of the ulnar nerve, and reaches as far as the lower third of the upper arm. One branch, previously noticed by authors, but more particularly described by Krause, is named by him the vlnnr coUatciril branch. It arises opposite the outer border of the latissimus dorsi tendon, and descends within the sheath of the ulnar nerve, through the internal intermuscular septum, and is distributed to the short inferior fibres of the triceps (Reichert and Du Bois Reymond's Archiv, 1864). h. The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, commonly united in origin with the preceding, winds backwards beneath the intercosto-laumeral nerve, and after supplying filaments to the skin, ends about two inches from the olecranon ; in some instances extending as far as the olecranon. This nerve is accompanied by a small cutaneous ai'tery. B. Posterior branches :— These consist of a fasciculus of muscular hranclies which supply the outer head of the triceps muscle and the anconeus. The hranch of the anconeus is slender, and remarkable for its length ; it descends in the substance of the triceps to reach its destination. 0. External branches :— a. The muscular IrancJies supply the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, (the extensor carpi radialis brevier receiving its nerve from the posterior interosseous,) and frequently give a smaU branch to the brachialis anticus.