385 THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. (c) The atitri'lor sinnal arterj/, somewhat larger than the preceding-, arises near the end of the vertebral artery, and descends obliquely in front of the medulla oblongata. Immediately below the foramen magnum, it unites with the cor- responding vessel of the opposite side, so as to form a single trunk, which descends a short distance only along the middle line in front of the spinal cord, forming the upper part or commencement of the anterior median artery of the cord. This anterior spinal branch of the vertebral artery supplies therefore only the upper part of the cord ; the remainder being provided with a series of small arteries, which are derived in the neck from the vertebral and inferior thyroid arteries, in the back from the intercostals, and below this from the lumbar, ilio- lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries. These small vessels enter the spinal canal at irregular intervals through the intervertebral foramina, and, passing along the roots of the nerves, communicate with each other along the middle line by means of ascending and descending branches ; so that, by a succession of anastomoses, a very slender single vessel, of varying thickness, named the anterior mcd'ani artery, appears to extend from the one end to the other of the cord. This vessel, or chain of inosculating vessels, supplies the pia mater and the substance of the cord—some entering the anterior median fissure. At the lower end of the spinal cord it sends branches downwards on the cauda equina. On a part of the spinal cord near the lower end, and in front of the posterior roots of the nerves, may be found another small artery, about equal in size to the anterior spinal, (('/) The jwsterior Inferior cerehelhtr artery, the largest of the branches, arises from the vertebral near the pons, and sometimes from the basilar artery : it turns backwards and outwards, between the hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves, over the restiform body and near the side of the opening of the fourth ventricle to reach the under surface of the cerebellum. Here, running back- wards between the inferior vermiform process and the hemisphere, it divides into two branches : one of which continues backwards in the sulcus between the hemispheres ; while the other, turning outwards, ramifies on the under sm-f ace of the cerebellum as far as its outer border, over which the ultimate divisions of each branch anastomose with those of the superior cerebellar arteries. This artery partly supplies the hemisphere and the vermiform process, and gives branches to the choroid plexus of the f oiu-tli ventricle. Varieties.—Origin.—The right vertebral artery has been seen to arise from the common carotid of the same side, in some of those cases in which the right subclavian has been given as a separate vessel from the posterior part of the aorta. In very rare instances, the right vertebral artery arises from the aorta. The left vertebral artery is not unfrequently derived from the aorta, in which case it generally arises between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, but sometimes it is the last of the branches from the arch. The left vertebral artery in a few instances, and the right vertebral in one, have been found to arise by more than a single root; and an example of three roots to a vertebral artery has been placed on record., (R. Quain, plate 2-1, fig. 2.) Two roots may proceed from the subclavian artery, or one from the subclavian and one from the aorta. Course.—Instead of entering the foramen of the sixth vertebra, the vertebral artery of one side not unfrequently enters higher up, through the foramen of the fifth, or fourth, or more rarely of the third vertebra, or even, according to several anatomists, of the second. On the other hand, the vertebral artery has been seen to enter the foramen of the seventh vertebra. lirancJu's.—In the neck, the vertebral artery has been found, though very rarely, to give branches which are usually derived from the subclavian, such as the superior intercostal and the inferior thyroid. The basilar artery the single trunk formed by the junction of the right and left vertebral arteries in the middle line, extends from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, along the median groove of which it lies under cover of the arachnoid. The length of this artery is therefore about equal to that of the pons, at the anterior border of VOL. I. CO