4 INTRODUCTION. a segmented character, especially in the axial portion of the body, and this, segmentation affects more or less, not merely the skeletal parts of its structure, "but also, to some extent, its other component organs. Fig. 2. Fig. 2.—Semidiagrammatic View of a Longitudinai> Section op the Embryo represented in figure 1; showing the relations OP THE Principal Systems AND Organs to each other in the horizontal Position of the Verte- bral Axis. (A. T.) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, primary divisions of the brain in the cranial part of the nenral canal ; n, n, spinal cord in the vertebral part of the same ; s, one of the spinous- processes of the vertebree (4th dorsal) ; cli, chorda dorsalis running through the axis of the vertebral centra or bodies ; dt, the same extending into the base of the cranium ; a, dorsal aorta ; j)* pharyngeal cavity ; i, i, alimentary canal ; h, ventricular part of the heart, from which the arterial bulb is seen joining the aorta by arches ; h, branchial plates ; I, liver ; w, Wolffian body ; v, urinary vesicle or allantois, joining the intestine in the cloaca ; u, u',. umbilicus. Fig. 4. Fig. 3.—Transverse Section (diagrammatic) op the Trunk op the EmbryO' through the Anterior Limbs. (A. T.) m, spinal cord ; n, neural or dorsal arch, including bone, muscle, skin, roots of the nerves, &c. ; ch, chorda dorsalis, smrounded by the vertebral body or centrum ; Tentral or visceral arch, or wall of the body ; p, p, loleuro-peritoneal cavity ; i, alimen- tary canal; /i, heart; I, I, the rudimentary limbs. Fig. 4.—First Dorsal Vertebra with the First Rib and upper part of the Sternu3i, seen from above. ^ C, body or centrum ; N, neui-al arch or vertebral ring ; V, cavity of the chest, visceral cavity. It is true that a seg-mented plan of construction is not restricted to vertebrate animals, but exists in several other classes of the animal kmgdom, as is most conspicuously seen in the class Articulata, such as insects and crustacea. In these animals, however, there are many important deviations from the verte-