430 AETERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1. The ileo-collc artery, the first in order from below upwards, inclines downwards and to the right side, towards the ileo-colic valve, near which it divides into two branches: one of these descends to inosculate with the termination of the mesenteric artery itself, and to form an arch, from the convexity of which branches proceed to supply the junction of the small with the large intestine, and the caecum and its appendix ; the other division ascends and inosculates with the next mentioned branch. The ileo-colic artery is not always distinct from the termina- tion of the superior mesenteric. 2. The right colic artery passes transversely towards the right side, beneath the peritoneum, to the middle of the ascending colon, opposite to which it divides into two branches, of which one descends to com- municate with the ileo-colic artery, whilst the other ascends to join in an arch with the middle colic. This artery and the ileo-colic often arise by a common trunk. 3. The middle colic artery passes upwards between the layers of the mesocolon towards the transverse colon, and divides in a manner exactly similar to that of the vessels just noticed. One of its branches inclines to the right, where it inosculates with the preceding vessel; the other descends to the left side, and maintains a similar communica- tion with the left colic branch, derived from the inferior mesenteric artery. From the arches of inosculation thus formed, small branches pass to the colon for the supply of its coats. Those branches of the superior mesenteric artery which supply the ascending colon have a layer of peritoneum only on their anterior aspect: the others lie between two strata. Varieties.—Tlie number of tlie branches of this artery, both intestinal and colic, is by no means constant. It also frequently gives off accessory branches to the neighbouring- viscera ; of these that to the liver is the most common. It may replace the gastro-duodenal or its chief branch, the right epiploic (Henle), or it may give accessory pancreatic and splenic branches (Hyrtl). It has also been seen to give off the left colic and superior hsemorrhoidal arteries when the inferior mesenteric was absent (Fleischmann). A rare anomaly is the presence of an omphalo-mesenteric artery, arising either from the main stem or from one of the branches of the superior mesenteric. In one case it ran direct to the umbilicus where it gave a branch to the urachus (Haller). In another it reached the anterior wall of the abdomen rather below the umbilicus, and after giving a branch to the rectus, which anastomosed with the deep epigastric, it ter- minated by winding round the ligamentum teres, and forming a capHlaiy net- work on the suspensory ligament of the liver (Hyrtl). Inferior mesenteric artery.—This artery, much smaller than the superior mesenteric, supplies the lower half of the colon, and the greater part of the rectum. It arises from the aorta, between one and two inches above the bifurcation of that trunk. The inferior mesenteric artery inclines to the left side in the direction of the left iliac fossa, from which point it descends between the layers of the mesorectum into the pelvis, and, under the name of superior licmiorrlioidal artery, runs down behind the rectum. It lies at first close to the aorta, on its left side, and then crosses over the left common iliac artery. Branches.—(a) The left colic artery is directed to the left side behind the peritoneum, and across the left kidney to reach the descend-