166 ARTICULATIOXS OF THE LOWEH LIMB. ening bands from the tendons of neighbouring muscles, in front from the ilio-psoas, above from the long head of the rectus femoris, behind from the gluteus minimus, and below from the obturator externus. From the inside of the capsule the inner layers of fibres are reflected upwards from their insertion upon the neck of the femur to the articular cartilage, forming a surface partly level and partly raised into longi- tudinal folds called retinacula (Henle). The synovial membrane of the joint is reflected from the neck of the femur to the inner surface of the capsule, thence to the inner surface of the cotyloid ligament and to the pad of fat in the bottom of the ace- tabulum, from which it is further prolonged as a tubular investment upon the round ligament. It frequently communicates through an opening in the anterior wall of the capsule, with a synovial bursa placed beneath the tendon of the ilio-psoas muscle. Movements.—The movements allowed at the hip-joint are extension, flexion, abduction, adduction, cii-cumduction, and rotation. Extension is limited by the anterior fibres of the capsular ligament, and the ilio-femoral band : flexion is limited only by the contact of the neck of the femui- with the acetabulum. Abduction is controlled by the pubo-femoral bands, and by the lower part of the capsule ; adduction by the ilio-trochanteric band and by the upper part of the capsule. The round ligament is put upon the stretch when the thigh is partially flexed and adducted ; it therefore resists dislocation upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii, which is, notwithstanding its presence, the most frequent kind of displacement. The round ligament is also put upon the stretch in the position of flexion and external rotation. The swinging antero-posterior movement of the femur, as in walking or running, is effected by rotation of the head of the bone in the hip-joint. In the erect attitude, as a vertical line passing through the centre of gravity of the trunk falls behind the centres of rotation in the hip- joints, the pelvis tends to fall backwards by over extension of the hip-joints, but as this is prevented by the tightening of the capsule in front, the maintenance of the erect attitude, without muscular effort, is partly due to this mechanism of tlie hip-joint. THE KNEE-JOINT. The articular surfaces of this complicated joint are the condyles of the femur and tibia, with fibro-cartilages interposed, the articulating surface of the patella, and the patellar surface of the femur. The action is mainly that of a hinge-joint. The joint is strengthened superficially by fibrous coverings derived from the muscular tendons and apo- neuroses. The ligaments which have received special names are the following. The internal lateral ligament, long and flat, connects the internal tuberosity of the femur with the inner tuberosity and the hinder ])order of the tibia, on the shaft of which it descends for some distance. Supe- riorly its deep surface rests on the articular synovial membrane; in the middle it is attached to the internal semilunar cartilage ; and below the head of the tibia the anterior slip of insertion of the semimembranosus muscle passes between the ligament and the bone. The external lateral ligament is a rounded cord, which extends from the external tuberosity of the femur to the head of the fibula. Its internal surface corresponds with the tendon of the popliteus muscle and the inferior external articular vessels. The tendon of the biceps flexor cruris muscle is frequently divided into two by this ligament, and between the ligament and the tendon there is a synovial bursa. Further