MUSCLES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. 206 little above the bend of the elbow, the muscle suddenly becomes narrower, and is continued into the flat rounded tendon of insertion. This tendon, slightly twisted upon itself as it descends, is inserted into the rough posterior margin of the tuberosity of the radius, gliding on the anterior smooth surface of that process by the intervention of a synovial bursa. From the inner side of the lower part of the muscle and tendon a strong flat aponeurotic band, called the semilunar fascia, passes downwards and inwards, and becomes blended with the deep fascia of the forearm over the pronator radii teres. Relations.-—Concealed above by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, the Keeps forms in the rest of its extent the prominence of the front of the arm. It Tests in its upper part on the humerus, and in its lower on the brachialis anticus, ■and by its inner margin is in contact in its upper half with the coraco-brachialis, in its lower with the brachial artery. Its inferior tendon is in contact with the supinator brevis, and the fibrous expansion or semilunar fascia is stretched across the brachial artery and median nerve. Varieties.—The biceps is one of the most variable muscles in the body. Among- the m.ost frequent of its varieties are, 1st. the greater than usual separation of its glenoid and coracoid portions, and 2nd, the increase in the number of its Iieads of origin. The last occurs most frequently by a slip which forms a third head arising from the humerus, in more or less close connection with the brachialis anticus and the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and being inserted into the under surface of the semilunar fascia so as to form a tensor of that fascia : this head lies generally on the outer side of the brachial artery, and has sometimes been found covering it. A muscular band has also been observed extending downwards from the biceps to the intermuscular septum over the inner condyle of the humerus, and passing over the brachial artery. (R. Quain, '• The Anatomy of the Arteries," &c.. p. 270, pi. 57.) A thii-d head has also been observed passing from the outside of the humerus (brachio-radialis of W. Gruber), and sometimes from the bicipital groove, or great tuberosity. Occasionally the long head does not reach the glenoid part of the bone, but stops short in the bicipital groove. The IbracMalis anticus muscle arises from the lower half of the ante- rior surface of the humerus. At the upper part of its origin it embraces the insertion of the deltoid by two angular fleshy processes ; it extends downwards to the capsule of the elbow-joint, and inwards to the internal supracondylar ridge and the intermuscular septum in its whole extent ; on its outer side it is separated from the external ridge and septum in the greater part of its length by the supinator longus, and only arises from it for a short distance at its upper end. It is closely adherent to the ligament in front of the elbow-joint, and terminates below in a thick mass which is inserted into the rough triangular surface on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna. BHatwnf<.—This muscle lies immediately behind and projects at each side of the biceps. It supports the brachial artery and median nerve. Fibres have been found to pass inwards from it, over the brachial artery, to the internal in- termuscular septum. Varieties.—This muscle is subject to considerable variation. The most frequent of these consist in its subdivision into tv.^o or sometimes more parts ; its union vvdth neighbouring muscles, such as supinator longus, pronator teres or biceps ; insertion of a slip from it into the semilunar fascia ; and occasionally into the radius. The triceps extensor ciibiti muscle occupies the whole posterior brachial region. It consists superiorly of three portions or heads which are united lower down in a common mass, the tendon of which is inserted into the posterior and upper part of the olecranon, a bursa inter-