210 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. change in the direction of the brachial artery. An additional head of origin from the biceps or from the brachialis anticus has also been observed. Fiff. 173. Fig. 173.—Superficial Muscles of the Forearm AND HaNP, seen from THE FrONT. (A. T.) § 3, biceps flexor cubiti ; 3', its tendon of insertion ; 3", its aponextrotic slip ; 4, brachialis anticus ; 4', its inner and lower portion ; 5', lower part of the triceps, seen arising from behind the intermxiscular septum ; 6, j^ronator radii teres ; 7, flexor carpi radialis ; 8, palmaris longus, passing at 8' into the palmar aponeurosis ; 9, flexor carpi ulnaris; 10, supinator longus; between 10 and 3, +, supinator brevis ; 11, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 12, extensor primi internodii ; 13, lower part of the flexor digitorum sublimis ; 14, flexor longus pollicis ; 15, small part of the flexor digitorum profundus ; 16, pal- maris brevis, lying on the muscles of the little finger ; 17, abductor pollicis. The flexor carpi radialis muscle arises from the inner condyle by the common ten- don, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the intermuscular septa placed between it and the pronator teres on one side, the palmaris longus on the other, and the flexor sublimis posteriorly. The fleshy fibres end a little below the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which occupies a special compartment in the outer part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and running through a groove in the os trape- zium, to which it is bound by a thin fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane, is inserted into the base of the second meta- carpal bone. lielatunu.—In the lower half of the forearm the radial arteiy is placed to the outer side of the tendon. Va)-k'tk's.—At its origui this muscle has been observed connected by an additional slip with the tendon of the biceps or semilunar fascia, or with the coronoid process of the ulna. Its insertion has been found frequently displaced, as into the trapezium, or into the third and even the fourth metacarpal bone as well as the second. The palmaris Icngiis, the smallest muscle of this group, is placed between the flexores carpi radialis and ulnaris, resting on the flexor sublimis : it arises from the inner condyle and the intermuscular septa, forming a small muscular belly, which soon ends in a long slender tendon, inserted into the palmar fascia near the middle of the wiist, and sometimes sending a slip to the short muscles of the thumb. Varieties.—This is one of the most variable muscles in the body. It is wanting' to the extent of about ten per cent, of the bodies examined. It is subject to many variations of fonn ; e.g., the muscular fibres may occupy the middle of the muscle, which then commences and ends by an elongated tendon ; or the mus-