365 BRANCHES OF THE FACIAL ARTERY. to the tonsil, the styloid muscles, and the Eustachian tube, this artery divides near the levator palati muscle into two branches, one of which follows the course of the circumflexus palati muscle, and is distributed to the soft palate and its glands, w^hile the other penetrates to the tonsil, and ramifies upon it with the branch to be next described.—The place of this artery upon the palate is often taken by the ascending pharyngeal. {h) The tomlllar branch ascends along the side of the pharynx, and penetrating the superior constrictor of the pharynx, terminates in small vessels upon the tonsil and the side of the tongue near its root. {(■) The f/landulnr branches, a numerous series which enter the substance of the sulDmaxillary gland, whilst the facial artery is in contact with it; and some of w^hich are prolonged upon the side of the tongue. (^7) The suhmcntal branch, the largest arising from the facial in the neck. Leaving the artery near the point at which it turns upwards to the face, it runs forwards below the base of the maxillary bone on the surface of the mylo- hyoid muscle and subjacent to the digastric. Giving branches in its course to the submaxillary gland and the muscles attached to the jaw, and anastomosing with the sublingual artery, it approaches the symphysis of the chin and divides into two branches; one of these running more superficially than the other, passes between the depressor muscle of the lower lip and the skin, supplying both ; while the other dips between that muscle and the bone, and ramifies in the substance of the lip, communicating with the inferior labial and mental branches. B. Facial branches.—Of the branches derived from the facial artery upon the side of the face, some are directed outwards to the muscles, as to the masseter and buccinator, and require only to be indicated. The larger branches are directed inwards, and are as follows :— {(i) The Inferior lahial branch. This arises soon after the facial artery has turned over the lower border of the maxilla, and running forward beneath the depressor anguli oris, distributes branches to the skin and muscles of the lov'er lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary and submental branches, and with the inferior dental branch of the internal maxillary artery. (/y) The coronary artery of the lower lip. Arising near the angle of the mouth, as often in conjunction with the superior coronary as from the facial separately, this branch penetrates the muscular fibres surrounding the orifice of the mouth, takes a transverse and tortuous course between those fibres and the mucous mem- brane of the lip, and inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Small twigs from it ascend to supply the orbicular and depressor muscles, the glands, and other structures of the lower lip ; whilst others descend towards the chin, and communicate there with other branches. {(■) The coronarij artery of the upper lii). Larger and more tortuous than the preceding branch, with which it often arises, this vessel runs across between the muscles and mucous membranes of the upper lip, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. In addition to supplying the whole thickness of the upper lip, it gives two or three small branches to the nose. One of these, named the artery of the .^ejrtiim, runs along the lower border of the septum nasi, on which it ramifies as far as the point of the nose ; another reaches the ala of the nose. {(J) The lateral naml artery. This branch turns inwards to the side of the nose beneath the common elevator of the nose and lip, and sends branches to the ala and the dorsum of the nose. It anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, with the artery of the septum nasi, and with the infra- orbital artery. (<") Anyvlar artery. Under this name is recognised the terminal part of the facial artery, which inosculates at the inner side of the orbit with a terminal branch of the ophthalmic artery. Communication between the superficial and deep branches of the external carotid is established by the anastomoses of the facial artery with the infra- orbital, buccal, inferior dental, and nasal branches of the internal maxillary ; and between the external and the internal carotids by the anastomosis of the facial with the ophthalmic arteries.