THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEIN. 477 substance of the parotid gland as it descends behind the ramus of the jaw. Beneath the angle of that bone, it divides into two vessels, one of which turns backwards, and forms the commencement of the external jugular vein, while the other communicates with the facial vein near its termination. Tributaries.—These are numerous :—(a) 2^a.'i'otid branches from the parotid gland ; (J)) articular, from the articulation of the jaw; (c) anterior auricular veins from the external ear; {d) the trauKversc facial, a branch of consider- able size, correspondmg with the transverse facial artery; (e) the imsterior auricalar directed forwards from behind, and joined by the stylo-mastoid vein ; and (/) the internal maxillary vein, a large vessel, which requires more par- ticular description. The internal maxillary vein corresponds somewhat in direction, and position with the artery of the same name, and receives branches from the neighbouring parts, most of which are the venje comites of the corresponding divisions of the internal maxillary artery. Thus three or four deep temporal branches descend from the temporal muscle; others come from the pterygoid, masseter, and buccinator muscles. The middle meningeal veins and some palatine veins also end in the internal maxillary ; and lastly, branches from the surface of the upper jaw—superior dental, and another, of large size, from the lower jaw, emerging from the dental foramen—inferior dental. These different branches form a plexus of ^Q\m,i[\.2im.Qdi pterygoid plexus, which is placed in the lower part of the temporal fossa, between the temporal and the external pterygoid muscle, and in part between the pterygoid muscles. It (iommunicates in front with the facial vein, and above, with the cavernous sinus by branches through the base of the skull. From this plexus proceed one or two short trunks, which join nearly at right angles with the temporal vein. The facial communicatlnri vein, extending between the temporal vein at the angle of the jaw and the facial vein, a little in front of it, is a short trunk, usually the larger of the two into which the temporal vein divides, and placed nearly transversely, so as to allow the flow of blood either from the temporal into the internal jugular vein, or from the facial into the external jugular. External Jugular Vein.—This vein commences on a level with the angle of the lower maxilla, at the end of the temporal vein, and descends perpendicularly between the platysma and fascia, crossing the sterno-mastoid muscle. In consequence of the oblique direction of that muscle, the vein gets to its outer border, and continues behind it down to the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the fascia to terminate either as a single trunk, or by two or three branches in the subclavian vein. It is provided with a valve at its lower end, and in most cases with another about the middle of its course. Tributaries.—The external jugular vein receives some lai-ge branches from behind, and superficial branches from the fore part of the neck. The largest branches are the following. {a) The posterior branch, lying at fii-st between the splenius and trapezius muscles, passes down at the outside of the jugular vein, and below the middle of the neck opens into that vessel. {h) The suprascapular and posterior scapnlar veins, con-esponding to the arteries of the same name, pass transversely inwards to join the external jugular vein close to its termination.