MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 238 distinguished one from the other only b}^ the arrangement of their fibres, cover the whole of the anterior and lateral surfaces of the thigh- bone, from which they arise. Fig. 189.—Deep Muscles of the Fkont of THE Thigh. (A. T.) ^ a, anterior superior, and anterior inferior spinous process of tlie ilium ; c, outer and upper part of the great trochanter ; d, sym- physis pubis ; e, patella ; /, inner side of the knee-joint and internal lateral ligament ; (/, head of the fibula ; 1, the gluteus medins ; 2, the glutens minimus ; 3, tendon of the rectus, dividing above into its tvro portions ; 4, points, to the cut tendon of insertion of the ilio- psoas muscle ; 5, jxart of the obturator ex- ternus and quadratus femoris ; 6, jjectineus ; 7, part of the adductor brevis ; 8, adductor magnus ; 9, vastus internns ; 9', its continu- ation down on the outer side ;10, crureus ; 11, vastus externus ; 12, tendon of the rectus; 13, lower part of the slip of the fascia lata by which the tensor vaginse femoris is inserted into the tibia and fibula. a. The rectus femoris muscle ex- tended in a straight line from the pelvis to the patella, arises by two tendons, one of which is attached to the anterior inferior spinous pro- cess of the ilium, and the other united to the first within an inch of that ])oint, takes origin from the groove on the dorsum ilii above the brim of the acetabulum. Fj'om the prolonga- tion of the tendon so formed the mus- cular fibres arise pennately, and, turn- ing outwards and backwards as they descend, are inserted in a similar manner into the tendon below, the superior tendon being prolonged on the anterior, the inferior tendon od the posterior surface of the muscle. The inferior tendon forms a broad band inserted into the upper surface of the patella. Ih'lation-'i.—Superiorly tliis muscle is covered by tlie tensor vaginaa femoris, iliacus, and sartorius muscles: further down it is covered only by fascia. The acetabu- lar tendon lies beneath the gluteus mini- mus. The muscle rests upon the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, the insertion of the ilio-psoas, the crureus, and parts of the vasti muscles. Behind it also pass the external circumflex ai-tery and a, part of the anterior crural nerve. 1). The vastus extemus arises by an extensive aponeurosis attached