THE CORONARY AETERY. 353 which have been observed ; the g-rcater number of which it will be understood, from the nature of the chang-e in the circulation which takes place at birth, are only compatible with intra-uterine life. Such are those cases in which the pulmonary artery leads throug'h the ductus arteriosus, or fifth branchial arch of the left side into the descending' aorta ; while the aortic arch itself is completely separated by a constriction or even a complete closure of its tube from the descending part of the aorta. It is remarkable, however, that in some rare cases of the kind now referred to, life has been prolonged after birth, and the ductus arteriosus having become closed, probably gradually, the descending aorta has come to receive a full supply of blood from enlarged anastomosing vessels (internal mammary, intercostal, Sec.) passing between the vessels which rise from the arch and those connected with the descending aorta. Along with the same division may also be classed the series of converse cases, in which the pulmonary arch being closed anteriorly, the pulmonary vessels have received their supply of blood from the descending aorta. Such examples of the origin of the pulmonary arteries from the aorta, as they have been styled, and examples of the origin of the left, or in most rare cases of the right sul^clavian artery from the ductus arteriosus or from one of the pulmonary arteries, are explicable by reference to the same group of developmental phenomena. 5. The Viirieties in the ninnhcr and jjositioti of the ms-.sr/.y .tprtjif/inr/ from tlie arch of the aorta are extremely numerous; some very frequent, others compa- ratively rare. These vessels may be all collected into one trunk, or they may rise separately from the aorta to the number of six. In the rare case of one trunk, we may suppose the anterior aortic roots to be combined so as to collect all the branches proceeding from them together, as naturally occurs in what is called the anterior aorta of the horse. The cases of two vessels from the arch may be of two kinds ; one, which is the commonest of all the varieties of the aortic vessels, in which the left carotid is imited with the innominate artery into a common stem : and the other, com- paratively rare, in which there are two innominate or brachio-cephalic trunks, as in birds. Three is the normal number of branches rising separately from the arch in man, and apes, and some other mammals. There is. however, a rarer form of variety in which the number is the same, and in which, as occiu's naturally in some cetacea, the subclavians are both separate vessels, and the two carotids spring from a common stem in the interval between them. The commonest form of the condition in which there are four vessels rising- from the aortic arch, is that in v*-hich the sessile left vertebral artery rises between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. A rarer form is that in which the vessels rising from the arch are successively the right subclavian, the right carotid, the left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. The number of five aii;eries proceeds from the division of the innominate into subclavian and carotid, together with separate origin of the left vei-tebral artery. In the case of six vessels proceeding from the single arch, of which there is an instance described, the vessels were in the following order, which is that which might be anticipated from the mode of development, viz., right subclavian, vertebral and carotid, left carotid, vertebral and subclavian arteries. There are. however, many other varieties and modifications of those already mentioned, for which the fuller v/orks already quoted may be referred to. BEANCHES OF THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. . The coronary arteries are two small vessels, named right and left, which arise from the root of the aorta in the npper ]^arts of the two anterior of the three sinuses of Valsalva, on a level with the margins of the semilunar valves. The ri[/Jit coronary artery about the size of a crow's quill, runs obliquely in tlie auriculo-ventricular groove towards the right side, and thence along the posterior aspect of the heart, until it reaches the line of VOL. I. A A