THE BEACIIIAL ARTERY. VOL. I. Relation to Nerves. — The median nerve descends in contact with the \ artery, lying on its outer side at the \\\\\Vijiv ^ ■axilla, directly in front of it below the vOTf middle of the arm, and on the inner side at the elbow. Of the other large "-^^ branches of the brachial plexus which are closely connected with the axillary artery, none continue in the immediate neighbourhood of the brachial artery along the arm. The external cutaneous and circumflex separate at once from the vessel in the axilla, the musculo- spiral soon turns backwards in the musculo-spiral groove, and the inter- Fig. 263. nal cutaneous and ulnar nerves descend vertically on the inner side of the limb. Pig. 263.—Superficial View of the Arteries OF THE FRONT OF THE FoRE-ARM, AND HAND (from Tiedemann). ^ a, deltoid muscle ; 5, biceps ; V, its semilunar fascia ; c, scapular head of the triceps ; c', its internal head ; d, pronator radii teres ; e, flexor carpi radialis ; /, palmaris longus ; its tendon spreading in the upper part of the palmar fascia, from which, on the inner side, the palmaris brevis muscle is seen rising ; g, flexor carpi ulnaris ; h, supinator radii longus ; i, extensor carpi radialis longior ; I, extensor ossis meta- • carpi pollicis ; m, flexor digitorum sublimis|; 1, placed on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, the lower part of the axillary artery, continued into the brachial ; 2, superior profunda; 3, inferior profunda ; 4, anastomotic ; 5, near the division of the brachial artery into ulnar and radial, points to the origin of the recurrent radial artery ; 5', lower part of the radial artery, where it gives off the superficialis volfe, and turns round the wi'ist; 6', the lower part of the ulnar artery, near the place where it passes down to form the superficial palmar arch ; 7, the super- ficialis volge, which joins it ; 8, 8, 8, 8, first, second, third, and fourth digital branches of the superficial arch to the inside of the little finger, adjacent sides of the 4th and 5th, 3rd and 4th, and 2nd and 3rd fingers ; 9, radialis indicis ; ■on the thumb are seen the two branches of the princeps pollicis artery. Branches. — The brachial artery gives some small muscular branches, which are directed outwards and back- wards to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus ; and the follow- ing larger branches which incline ir- wards:— D D