THE rOPLITEAL ARTERY. 461 reach tlie inner aspect of the knee and accompanies the long- saphenous vein to the intemal malleolus (Henle). SUBGICAL ANATOMY OF THE FEMORAL ARTEET. The femoral artery may be tied in two parts of its course, either at the apex of Scarpa's triangle or in Hunter's canal. The former situation is that usually preferred by surgeons, owing to the superficial position of the vessel, and its freedom from large branches. An incision about three and a half inches long is made in the direction of the vessel, and so that the centre of the incision shall be about four and a half inches below the middle of Poupart's ligament. The integument and fascia lata are cut through at once, and the sartorius muscle exposed. The inner edge of that muscle is to be raised and turned outwards, and the sheath of the artery scraped through. The femoral vein is close behind the artery and only separated by a thin fibrous partition, and the long saphenous nerve is to its outer side. The needle bearing the ligature is to be passed from within outwards, its point being kept close to the artery. To reach the artery in Hunter's canal a much longer incision is needed, owing to the greater depth of the vessel. The integuments are cut through over the inner border of the sartorius muscle, which here lies dii'ectly in front of the artery, avoiding at the same time the long saphenous vein. The fibrous structure- stretching over the vessels is then to be cut through and the artery exposed. The ligature is passed as in the previous operation. POPLITEAL ARTEEY. The popliteal artery placed at the back of the knee-joint extends along the lower third of the thigh and the upper part of the leg, reaching from the opening in the great adductor to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. It is continuous above with the femoral, and divides at the lower end into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. This artery at first inclines from the inner side of the limb to reach a point behind the middle of the knee-joint, and thence continues to descend vertically to its lower end. Lying deeply in its whole course, it is covered for some distance at its upper end by the semimembranosus muscle; a little above the knee it is placed in the popliteal space ; inferiorly it is covered for a considerable distance by the gastrocnemius muscle ; and at its termination by the upper margin of the soleus muscle. At first the artery lies close to the inner side of the femur ; in descending, it is separated by an interval from the flat or somewhat hollowed triangular surface at the lower end of the bone ; it then rests- on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and afterwards on the popli- teus muscle. Relation to Veins.—^The popliteal vein lies close to the artery, behind and somewhat to the outer side till near its termination, where it crosses the artery and is placed somewhat on the inner side. The vein is frequently double along the lower part of the artery, and, more rarely^ also at the upper part. The short saphenous vein, ascending into the popliteal space over the gastrocnemius muscle, approaches the artery as it is about to terminate in the popliteal vein. Relation to the Nerve.—The mfem«/j;d)/;?2fe«/nerve lies at first to the outer side of the artery, but much nearer to the surface than the vessel: the nerve afterwards crosses over the artery, and is placed behind and to the inner side below the joint. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery may be arranged in two sets, viz., the muscular and the articular. 1. The muscular branches are divided into a superior and an inferior group.