VERTEBRAL LIGAMENTS. 137 atlas, nor between the latter and the axis ; common fibrous membrane supplies their place in these two spaces, constituting posterior occipito- atlantal and atlanto-axial ligaments. The interspinous ligaments, thin and rather membranous, have an attachment extending from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connect the inferior border of one with the superior border of that next below it. They are best seen in the lumbar region, and are least developed in the neck. The supraspinous ligaments consist of small compressed bundles of longitudinal fibres, which connect the summits of the spinous pro- cesses, and form a continuous chain from the seventh cervical vertebra to the spine of the sacrum. The superficial fibres pass down from a given vertebra to the third or fourth below it; those more deeply seated reach only from one to the next, or the second below it. The ligamentum nuchas is the continuation upwards of the supraspinous ligament. It is, in the human subject, a thin inter- muscular septum of elastic and white fibrous tissue, the most super- ficial part of which extends from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the occipital protuberance, while the deeper fibres, springing from the same origin, pass to the occipital spine, and the spines of the six upper vertebrae. It is the representative of a strong elastic struc- ture which suspends the head in the lower animals. The intertransverse ligaments are unimportant bands extending between the transverse processes. In the lumbar regions they are membranous, in the dorsal region they are rounded bundles intimately connected with the muscles of the back ; and in the neck they are usually reduced to a few irregular fibres, wdiich may in some instances be wanting. Movements.—The movements of flexion and extension of the vertebral column are freely allowed in the cervical and lumbar regions, but in the dorsal are limited by the small amount of intervertebral substance and the imbrication of the laminte. The greatest bending backwards is permitted in the cervical, the greatest bending forwards in the lumbar region, especially between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Movements in other directions are limited chiefly by the articular processes. In the dorsal region the articular siu'faces of each verte- bra lie in the arc of a circle whose centre is in front of the vertebree, and round this centre a considerable degree of rotation is permitted. In the lumbar region, the centre of the circle in which the articular surfaces lie is placed behind, so that rotation is prevented; the articular processes, however, fit sufficiently loosely to pennit of lateral flexion, and by combination of this with antero-pos- terior flexion, some degree of circumduction is produced. The articular sur- faces of the cervical vertebrje, being oblique and placed in nearly the same trans- verse plane, allow neither pure rotation nor pure lateral flexion. They pennit, besides forward and backward motion, only one other, which is rotatory round an oblique axis—the inferior articulating process of one side gliding upwards and forwards on the opposing surface, and that of the other side gliding down- wards and backwards, by which a combination of lateral flexion and rotation is obtained. ARTICULATIONS OP THE ATLAS, AXIS, AND OCCIPITAL BONE. The atlas, axis, and occipital bone are connected by articular surfaces and ligaments, without the presence of intervertebral discs. Two pairs of synovial articulations, surrounded by capsular ligaments, connect the lateral masses of the atlas with the superior