334 MOEPHOLOGY OF THE TEUNK-MUSCLES. According to the direction of its fibres tlie trunk portion of this muscnlar mass may be divided into two groups of muscles, a ventral with longitudinally directed fibres and a later(d with more or less obliquelj^ directed fibres. The xentral group is represented in man by the rectus abdominis, rectus thoracis (an occasional muscle), and the sterno-mastoid, and repeats more closely the simple segmented condition of the dorsal muscle than is the case with the lateral fibres. In fishes the oblique fibres are almost entirely wanting, and in the lower vertebrates generally they are less developed than the longitudinal. On the other hand in the higher forms, as in man, the oblique fibres are the more important, the longitudinal fibres being m certain places (thorax) absent altogether, or only occasionally present as rectus thoracis. Again, the connection of the rectus thoracis with the sterno-mastoid is but rarely seen in man. In some animals, as Lepidosiren, the oblique fibres are directly continuous vvdth the longitudinal, but in man greater differentiation exists, for the lateral muscles are merely prolonged forwards as strong aponeuroses which form a fibrous sheath for the rectus on each side of the middle line. In man these longitudinal fibres have little or no connection with the muscles of the limbs, but in Urodelans they are continued outwards upon the ventral aspect of each limb as part of the pectoralis major and gracilis. Longitudinal fibres are also found in the pyramidalis, a small rudimentary muscle in man. but which in marsupials and monotremes is extremely large ; they are also found, but rarely, in man between the lateral oblique muscles forming a lateral rectm, which consists of a few fibres running between the lower ribs and the ilium. Posteriorly again the longitudinal direction is maintained by certain fibres of the quadratus lumborum. The lateral group of trimk muscles, distinguished by the oblique direction of their fibres, is divisible usually into three or it may be into four layers. In the lowest vertebrates this stratification does not occur, but in the higher animals it is coincident with the differentiation of separate muscles. Of these layers three are very constant in their relations and extent, but the fourth, which is the most superficial, though very constantly found, is on the whole only a partial laj'^er. In man these layers are represented, the first three by the abdominal muscles, the external and internal oblique and transversalis respectively, and the fourth by the platysma myoides. the facial, auricular and epicranial muscles. The transverse or deepest of these layers is represented by the transversalis muscle, and according to Humphry and others by the triangularis stemi and the sulDCOstals. which, however, have already been described as belonging more pro- perly to the hypaxial set of muscles. Tire internal oblique is in series with the internal intercostals, levatores costa- rum, anterior cervical and lateral lumbar intertransversales, and scaleni muscles. It is also in most direct connection with the quadratus lumborum. Posteriorly this layer furnishes the ischio-caudal (occasionally foimd in man), the erector penis, compressor urethrte, and transversus perinsei. Laterally it gives the costo- scapular muscles, serratus magnus and levator scapulaj. and the costo-coracoid, or subclavius, to the shoulder girdle. The external oblique layer is prolonged upwards upon the side of the chest, and outwards upon the fore limb as pectorales major and minor, latissimus dorsi. and between the limb and the head, as cleido-mastoid and trapezius. The fourth layer, corresponding to the panniculus carnosus of animals, seems to be mainly developed from the cutaneous surface of the last or external oblique layer; it is also developed in close connection with the skin and fascial invest- ment. In man this layer extends only upon the surface of the head and neck, and very slightly over the shoulder. It forms the subcutaneus colli or platysma myoides, and those slight continuations downwards which are found upon the surface of the pectoral and deltoid muscles. On the surface of the head this forms the epicranial muscles, with the intervening aponeurosis, the auricular and the facial muscles, except the orbicularis palpebrarum. All these muscles a.re attached to bone usually by one end only, the other being attached to the skin or to the cartilage of some moveable structure, but in some cases they may reach to the deeper structures by both ends. Portions of this layer in animals