68 BONES OF THE HEAD. condylar and tabular parts, beginning in the second or third, is completed in the fourth year ; that of the basilar and condylar parts, beginning in the third or fourth, is completed in the fifth or sixth year. The basi-occipital is united to Fig. 56.—Ossification of the Occipital Bone (II. Quain). A, in a fcetus of 10 weeks (from Meckel, Archiv, vol. i. tab. vi.) ; a, upper or tabular part ; 1 & 2, lower and upper pairs of ossific centres in it ; h, lower part or basilar and condylar portions : ossific cen- tres are seen in the condylar portions. B, occipital bone of a child at birth ; a, upper or tabular part, in which the four centres have become united into one, leaving fissures between them ; h, h, the ossified condylar por- tions ; c, the basilar portion. the basi-sphenoid by intervening cartilage up to the twentieth year, after which ossific union begins and is completed in one or two years. The parietal bone is ossified from a single nucleus, which appears in the parietal eminence about the seventh or eighth week. The eminence is very conspicuous in the yoimg bone, and gives a marked character to the form of the skull for a number of years in early life. The frontal bone is ossified from two nuclei which appear one on each side above the orbital arch, about the seventh week. At birth the bone consists of Fig. 57.—Frontal Bone of a Fcetus shortly BEFORE Birth (R. Quain). a & 6 indicate the two separate portions of the bone, in each of which the radiation of bony si^icula from the frontal eminence is seen. two separate lateral portions, which unite by a vertical median sutui'e during the first year. This fronial untnve usually becomes obliterated by osseous union taking place from below upwards, during the second year, though not unfrequently it persists throughout life. The frontal sinuses appear duiing the first year, and go on increasing in size up to old age. The Fontanelles. These are membranous intervals between the incomplete angles of the parietal and neighbouring bones, in some of which movements of the soft wall of the cranium may be observed in connection with variations in the state of the circulation and respiration. They are four in number, two median, anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The anterior fontanelle, situated between the anterior superior angle of the parietal bones and the superior angles of the ununited halves of the frontal bone, is quadrangular in form, and remains open for some time after birth. The posterior fontanelle, situated between the posterior superior angles of the parietal bones and the superior angle of the occipital bone, is triangular in- shape. It is filled up before bu-th, but the edges of the bones, being united by membrane only, are still freely movable upon each other. The lateral fontanelles, small and of irregular foi-m, are situated opposite Fig. 57.