MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 220 an inch. Its fibres end in a tendon, which occupies the narrow oblique groove in the middle of the posterior surface of the carpal end of the radius, and is bound down in a separate compartment of the annular liga- ment ; it is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. liclations.—The groove which lodges the radial extensors of the carpus inter- venes between those which lodge the tendon of this muscle and the tendons of the other extensors of the thumb. Varieties.—The extensor muscles of the thumb are subject to considerable variations, and if all the three muscles be included they seem to occur as often as in one out of every six subjects dissected. The most common occiu' in the extensor ossis metacarpi, and consist in more or less cleavage of the muscle or its tendon into separate parts. The insertion of the distinct tendons takes place either doubly into the first metacarpal bone, or in part into the trapezium, or into the abductor or opponens poUicis muscles. The extensor primi internodii is sometimes absent, being, as it were, fused with the extensor ossis metacarpi, in other cases it is more or less united with the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. A frequent variety, rex)resenting a muscle normally existing in the dog and many carnivora, is formed by the interposition of an additional extensor between the indicator and the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, with a double tendon and insertion into both fingers. The extensor indicis or indicator muscle arises from the lower end of the posterior surface of the ulna for three or four inches. The tendon passes with the common extensor through a compartment of the annular ligament, comes in contact with the tendon from that muscle destined for the index-finger, and unites with it to form the expansion already described. Fig. 179. Fig. 179.—Transverse Section of the Rigut Hand between the Carpus and Meta,- CARPUS, (A. T.) 1 a, h, c, d, e, articular siirfaces of the trape- ziiuu, trapezoid, and unciform bones ; a', palmar ridge of the trapezium ; e', unciform process ; between a' and c, the cut edge of the annular ligament, a process towards the trapezium at 11, by which the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is eaclosed in the groove of the trape- zium ; 1, tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 2, extensor primi internodii ; 3, ex- tensor secundi internodii; 4, extensor indicis ; 5 and G, long and short radial extensors of the carpus ; 7, the four divisions of the tendon of the common extensor of the fingers ; 8, extensor minimi digiti ; 9, extensor carpi ulnaris ; 10, flexor carpi radialis ; 11, flexor longus pollicis ; 12, the first on the ulnar side of the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; 13, the same of the flexor pro- nmdus ; 14, the median nerve ; 15, the palmar aponeurosis stretched across the anmdar ligament ; 16, palmaris brevis ; 17, muscles of the ball of the thumb ; 18, muscles of the little finger. Yavictirs.—A short additional extensor of one or more of the fingers has been observed as an occasional variety by various anatomists since Albinus, and who named it extensor brevis in the case of the index-finger with which it is most frequently connected. But it appears from later observations to vary consider- ably both in its origin, which may be from the radius or from a carpal or meta- carpal bone, and in its insertion which may be into only one or into two or more of the fingers ; thus forming an extensor brevis digitorum. Nerves.—The anconeus supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior receive branches dii-ectly from the musculo-spir-al nerve ; the short radial extensor, the ulnar extensor of tlie carpus, and the common extensor of the fingers, with that of the little finger, are supplied from the radial division, while the supinator