DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. 291 the opposite platysma in front of the symphysis, and even cross from the one side to the other below the chin, those of the right side over- lapping- those of the left ; and the posterior fibres are prolonged upon the side of the face as far as the angle of the mouth, blending with the triangularis oris and orbicularis oris muscles. The uppermost fibres {risorius, Santorini) have been already described. Varieties.—The muscular fibres of the platysma sometimes extend upwards on the face and downwards on the neck, shoulder and breast further than usual; and they occasionally take attachment to the clavicle. This muscle is the representa- tive in man of a subcutaneous grou.p of muscles, the jm?inienl/(.s- carno.si/.s, larg-ely developed in most mammals, by which very varied movements of the skin and some superficial parts may be given, as, for example, when the horse communi- cates a rapid motion to the skin to free itself from insects, or the dog shakes off the water after swimming, or the hedgehog elevates its spines. Nerves.—The platysma receives its principal motor nerves from the descend- ing branches of the facial, but as this unites with the superficial cervical nerve it may also be influenced through some of the spinal nerves. Action.—The platysma, being much less developed in man than in animals has a comparatively limited action in the human subject ; it raises the skin of the neck into longitudinal wrinkles ; it also assists in drawing the angle of the jaw downwards and outwards, and protects parts more deeply situated in the neck. It is contracted in sudden fear, and assists in the expression of this emotion. MUSCLES AND PASCIiE OF THE NECK ANTERIORLY. Fascia.—The deep cervical fascia passes forwards from the anterior border of the trapezius muscle over the sides and front of the neck beneath the platysma- myoides. Posteriorly it is continuous with the layers of connective tissue with which the trapezius and deeper muscles are invested ; it extends over the posterior triangle of the neck, viz., the space bounded by the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles and the clavicle : at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid it divides into two layers, which form an investment for that muscle; these unite again at the anterior border into a membrane which passes forwards across the middle line, and covers the area bounded by the middle line, the border of the jaw, and the sterno-mastoid muscle, and called the anterior triangle. In the posterior triangle the fascia is attached inferiorly to the clavicle, and near that bone is perforated by the external jugular vein, which in the previous part of its course lies superficial to the membrane. In the anterior triangle it is bound superiorly to the base of the jaw in front, and further back is con- tinued over the masseter muscle (masseteric fascia), and the parotid gland (jmrotid fascia) to the zygoma. In front the fascia is attached to the hyoid bone, and becoming stronger as it descends, it splits, a little below the level of the thyroid body into two distinct layers. Of these the more superficial and weaker, running along the sterno-mastoid muscles, is fixed to the sternum and the interclavicular ligament; whilst the stronger layer, lying under the former, and closely covering the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, is attached to the deeper surface of that bone. These layers materially assist in closing the cavity of the chest behind the sternum superiorly : between them there exists a quantity of loose connective tissue and fat, and sometimes a small lymphatic gland. Continuous with the deeper of those two layers, a fascia is found u 2