109 THE FEMUR. 25- 19- part. It presents two sharp margins and a flat interval. The external divi- Fig. 97. Fig. 97.—Femur of a Male frosi behind (A. T.) 1 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 13, the same as in the X)i-eceding figure ; 2', pit on the head for the round ligament of the hip-joint; 3', the back of the neck, showing a slight groove of the obturator externus muscle as it passes over the capsular ligament and neck ; between 4 and 5, the pos- terior intertrochanteric ridge ; 14, rough im- pression of the attachment of the glutens maximus muscle in the upper and outer continua- tion of the linea aspera ; 15, two lines running lip towards the lesser trochanter from the linea aspera, marking the attachments of the ad- ductor brevis and i^ectineus muscles ; 16, flat ■,..J^\-14 elevated surface of the linea aspera; 17, flat Ivi^^'^'l triangular popliteal surface between the lower divisions of the linea aspera ; 18, intercondylar notch ; 19, foramen for the nutritive or medul- lary vessels. sion of its superior bifurcation passes up to the great trochanter, and in its course is strongly marked where the gluteus maximus is attached ; the in- ternal division terminates in front of the small trochanter. The inferior divisions terminate at the tuberosi- ties of the condyles, and enclose be- tween them a flat triangular surface of bone, which is free from muscular attachments, and forms the floor of the upper part of the popliteal space. Towards the superior part of the linea aspera is the foramen for the medullary vessels, directed upwards into the bone. The inferior extremity presents two rounded eminences, the condyles, united anteriorly, but separated posteriorly by a deep intercondylar fossa or notch. Their greatest prominence is directed back- wards, and their curve, as it increases towards that part, may be compared to that of a partially uncoiled piece of watch-spring. The external condyle is the broader and more prominent in front; the internal is the longer and more prominent inferiorly. One large articular surface, con ted continuously with cartilage, extends over both con- dyles, but, opposite the front of the intercondylar ibssa, it is divided by two slight linear depressions into three / ^ parts, an elevated surface on each side of the fossa for articulation with the tibia ; and a grooved anterior surface 17