A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. Fig. 43.—Eight Malak Bone. (A. T.) | Fig. 43. 52 7, the orbital surface, with the orbito-malar foramen. BONES OF THE HEAD. extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The facial surface is convex, and pierced by one or more malar faramina, which pass through from 1, sxiperior or frontal angle and serrated edge ; 2, posterior or external angle and serrated surface for the zygoma ; 3, anterior or internal angle ; 4, inferior angle ; from 1 to 2, the temporal border ; from 1 to 3, the orbital border ; from 1 to 8, edge of articulation with the frontal and sphenoid bones ; at 8, the notch usually terminating the spheno-maxillary fissure ; from 2 to 4, the masseteric rough border ; between 8, 3, and 4, the triangular serrated surface for articula- tion with the siiperior maxillary bone ; 5, the external surface ; 6, the deep or posterior surface ; 5 and 6, are placed near the foramina for the temporo-malar nerves ; the orbital surface and transmit a small nerve and vessels. The orbital surface is concave from above downwards, and enters into the formation of the outer wall and floor of the orbit. The posterior surface is concave from side to side, and looks into the temporal and zygomatic fossae; it is also pierced by a small foramen. THE NASAL BONE. The nasal bones form the bridge of the nose. They are thick and narrow above, but gradually become wider and thinner below. The superior border of each is serrated, and articulates with the frontal bone; the inferior supports the lateral nasal cartilage; the external edge articulates with the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone; and the internal with its fellow, with the nasal spine of the Fig. 44. —KiGHT Nasal Bone. (A. T.) § A, from the front; B, from behind. 1, upper or frontal serrated border; 2, internal border for adjacent articulation ; 3, external or superior maxillary- border ; 4, lower free border ; in B, 4 is i^laced at the lower end of the groove for the nasal nerve. frontal bone, and frequently with the perpen- dicular plate of the ethmoid. The anterior surface, concave at its upper part, convex in the rest of its extent, presents a minute vascular foramen; the posterior or nasal surface is marked by a groove for the passage of the nasal nerve. THE LACHRYMAL BONE. The lachrymal bone, or os unguis, is a thin scale of bone placed afc the anterior and inner part of the orbit. It articulates superiorly with the frontal bone, posteriorly with the orbital plate of the ethmoid; anteriorly it presents a longitudinal or vertical groove, and articulates with the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, completing