314 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE ABDOMEN. return from the elevated and bent condition into which, they had been thrown by the inspiratory forces. In more forcible acts of expiration, in muscular efforts of the limbs and trunk, and in efforts of expulsion from the thoracic and abdominal cavities, all the muscles which tend to depress the ribs, and those which compress the abdominal cavity, concur in powerful action to empty the lung-s, to fix the trunk, and to expel the contents of the abdominal viscera. (See further, " Action of the Abdominal Muscles.") MUSCLES ANJ> FASCIJE OF THE ABDOMEN. Fascia.—The superficial fascia of the abdomen is usually described as consisting of two layers. One of these, the suhcutaneous layer, corresponds in its general features with the areolar subcutaneous tissue of other parts of the body, and contains embedded in it a very variable and often large quantity of fat. The other, or deeper layer, is of a denser and more membranous structure, contains a considerable amount of yellow elastic tissue in its substance, and is united by intervening fibres, in some places very closely, to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. These two layers are both continuous with the superficial fascia on other parts of the trunk : they can be dissected as distinct layers only on the fore part of the abdomen, and are separated in a more marked manner in the lower part of its wall, where subcutaneous vessels, such as the superficial epigastric and cir- ^ cumflex iliac, lie between them. The deep or elastic layer of the superficial fascia is bound down by a thin but dense intervening layer of fibrous tissue to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle in two places more particularly, viz., along the linea alba from the um- bilicus to the pubis, and in the whole length of Poupart's ligament. At the lower part of the linea alba it sends fibrous and elastic processes towards the dorsum of the penis, which form its so-called suspensory ligaments. By its close union to Poupart's ligament, it comes into relation with tlie fascia lata of the thigh, which is also united to that structure : but in the neighbourhood of the external inguinal aperture it remains free, and is prolonged downwards over the spermatic cord to the scrotum. The subcutaneous layer, losing its fat, is combined with the deeper layer as they both pass to the scrotum ; and here the nnited layer acquires a reddish brown colour, and undergoing a modification in structure by being mingled largely with involuntary muscular fibres, constitutes the dartos tunic of the scrotum. Some involuntary muscular fibres also exist in the altered superficial fascia which covers the penis. This covering, on leaving the scrotum poste- riorly, becomes continuous with the superficial fascia of the perin^eum. The parts of the superficial fascia here described have received minute attention from surgical anatomists, because of their close relation to the seat of hernial tumours ; the adhesion of the fascia to Poupart's ligament, and its disposition over the inguinal aperture, spermatic cord, and scrotum, while they prevent the descent upon the thigh of matter which has been effused beneath the fascia, cause it rather to spread upwards upon the abdomen or to take its course down- wards upon the scrotum. The deep layer of the abdominal fascia is also interesting, as corresponding with the tunica, nhdominalls, a strong membrane consisting almost entirely of yellow elastic tissue, which exists in animals, as may be well seen in the horse or ox, and which contributes to the support of the viscera. Muscles.—The muscular wall of the abdomen is formed for the most