185 GENERAL MOEPIIOLOGY OF THE MUSCLES. for a man of 150 lbs. weight: skeleton, 27 lbs.; muscles, G3 lbs. ; viscera (with skin, fat, blood, &c.), 60 lbs. Greneral Morpholog-y.—It cannot be doubted that the disposition of the muscles, as a whole and in groups, originally bears a close relation to the plan of vertebrate organization in the skeleton. This is very perceptible in the earlier stages of foetal development and in the lowest vertebrate animals. In fishes especially, and partly in amphibia, the muscles present a remarkable degree of vertebrate segmentation, the greater part of the muscles of the trunk being subdivided into zones, or mijotomes, by partitions or sclcrotouics, partly bony and partly cartilaginous or membranous, which extend transversely through the -\^'alls of the trunk, and which correspond in number and position with the vertebral and costal segments. In the higher animals and in man, together with the greater specialization of muscles in connection with the development of limbs, great deviations from the primitive muscular type in the trunk have occurred, and it becomes extremely difficult to trace the morphological relations of the rest of the muscles in the axial part of the body. It is indeed only in the deeper muscles of the vertebral column and of the ribs that the vertebrate subdivision and relation remain in any degree apparent. In the more super- ficial muscles, and more especially in the muscles of the limbs, where the direc- tion of the fibres is generally outwards from the trunk, portions of the myotomes run together so as to form muscles of greater or less length, and in which all appearance of vertebrate division is eifaced. In their more general relations also to the trunk of the body two sets of the muscles may be distinguished as ('ixui-lal and hypaxlal (episkeletal and hyposkeletal of Huxley), according as they lie a,bove or below the embryonic vertebral axis and the plane of its lateral extension. The lujparlal muscles, comparatively little developed in man, com- j)rise chiefly the prevertebral muscles of the neck with the psoas and pyriformis. Of the (pa,rial muscles a dorm-lntcral division consists mainly of the long and short erector muscles of the spine and head ; while a ventro-lnteral division con- sists both of such ventral longitudinal muscles as genio-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and recti abdominis, and of the lateral, obliquely directed, sterno-mastoid, scalene, intercostal, and abdominal muscles. The muscles of the limbs are also primarily derived from this great ventro-lateral muscle. They may be disting-uished as cetrhi.sia when attached partly to the limbs and partly to the trunk, and as intrimic when wholly attached to the bones of the limbs and their arches. To these morphological relations further reference will hereafter be made under the several large divisions of the muscles. (See Humphry, " Observations in Myology,'' &c., 1872, and in various papers in the Journ. of Anat. ; Huxley, Anat. of Yerteb. Animals,"' and Mivart, " Lessons in Elementary Anatomy." Varieties.—It follows from what has been stated above, tliat homologous correspondence can be traced between the individual muscles and grouj^s of muscles of man and those of animals. But as the form and attachments of the muscles are subject to very great variations in difi^erent animals, as well as to occasional varieties in the same species, the determination of the special homo- logies is attended in many cases with great difiiculty, and is still very imperfect. Many varieties have also been observed in the human body, and it is interesting to notice that these varieties are found to reappear generally in the same form, or in modifications of it which indicate relations to a typical or fundamental structure ; and that many of them are thus more or less repetitions of forms known to exist in different species of the lower animals. (Consult John Wood in Proceedings of Eoy. Soc. 1861-7, and Turner and others in Journ. of Anat. &. Physiol. ; Macalister's Instructive Catalogue of Muscular Anomalies, in Trans. Eoy. Irish Acad., 1872, and other papers ; Hallet, in Edin. Med. Journ., 1815 ; Wenzel Gruber, in Mem. of the Petersburg Acad.) FASCIiE. The term Fascia is applied to parts presenting a membranous dispo- sition of reticulated or felted fibrous tissue. These structures have usually been distinguished as the siqmfirial and the deep; the former consisting of looser and finer material, and passing by their slenderer