BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 118 "whole length, the cuboid bone, and the fourth and fifth toes, a great part of which rests upon the ground in standing. Besides being- arched longitudinally, the foot presents likewise a transverse arch formed behind by the cuboid and three cuneiform bones, and in front by the metatarsal bones. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OP THE PELVIS AND LOWER LIMB. Os innominatum.—The innominate bone is formed from the three principal pieces previously mentioned, viz., the ilium, ischium, and os pulois, and from various others of an epiphysial nature. Ossification commences in the cartilage of the ilium a little later than in other large bones, bone beginning to be depo- sited above the sciatic notch in the 8th or 0th week. This is followed by similar- deposits in the thick part of the ischium below the acetabulum in the 3rd month, and in the ascending ramus of the pubis in the 4th or 5th month. At Fig. 105. Fig. 105.—Ossification of the Os Innomiitatum (R. Quain). A, the condition of the hone at birth. Bone has spread from three nviclei into the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which meet in the cartilage of the acetabulum. B, from a child imder six years of age. The rami of the ischium and pubis are farther ossified, but still separate. C, a bone of two or three years later, in which the rami are united. D, the bone of the right side from a person of about twenty years. Union has taken place in the acetabulum, arid the additional epiphyses are seen in the crest of the ilium, the anterior inferior spine, the ischial tuberosity, and the margin of the symphysis pubis. In A, B and C, 1, ilium ; 2, ischium ; 3, pid^is ; below D, 4, separated Y-shaped piece formed of several fragments which begin to ossify about the 14th year, and often imite into this form before the completion of the acetabulum ; 5, epiphysis of the crest ; 6, that of the tuberosity of the ischium ; 7, that of the symphysis pubis ; 8, that of the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. bii-th the gi-eater part of the acetabulum, the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, the body and descending ramus of the pubis are still cartilaginous ; ossification, however, from the three primary centres has extended into the margin of the acetabulum. In the 7th or 8th year the rami of the ischium and pubis become completely united by bone. The parts which meet in the acetabulum are still separated by a tri-radiate strip of cartilage, which from its shape has been called the Y cartilage. This cartilage begins to be ossified from one or more centres about the age of puberty, and the intermediate bone- or epiphysis so formed is united to the neighbouring parts about the 17th or 18th year. Epiphyses are likewise formed in the cartilage of the crest of the