605 THE ANTEEIOR CRURAL NERVE. The sartorius muscle receives three or four twigs, which arise in common with the cutaneous nerves, and reach mostly the upper part of the muscle. The rectus muscle receives a distinct branch on its under surface. The nerve for the vadus cxtevmi.s, of considerable size, descends with the branches of the external circumflex artery towards the lower part of the muscle. It gives off a long slender articular filament, which reaches the knee and pene- trates the fibrous capsule of the joint. Fig. 369. Fig. 369.—Deep Nerves op the Anterior and Inner part op the Thigh (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille) \ 1, anterior crural nerve ; 2, branches given to the iliacus muscle ; 3, branch to the lower part of the psoas ; 4, large musculo-cutaueous branches, divided to show the deeper nerves ; 5 and 6, mus- cular filaments fi'om the small musculo-cutaneous ; 7, origin of the cutaneous branches ; 8, communi- cating filament of the internal cutaneous nerves ; 9, branches to the rectus ; 10, branches to the vastus externus ; 11, branches to the vastus intei- nus ; 12, internal saphenous nerve ; 13, its patellar branch ; 14, its continuation down the leg ; 15, obturator nerve ; 16, branch from the obturator nerve to the adductor longus ; 17, branch to the adductor brevis ; 18, branch to the gracilis ; from this a filament is prolonged downwards, to unite with the plexus formed by the union of branches from the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves ; 19, deep branch of the obturator nerve to the adductor magnus ; 20, lumbo-sacral trunk; 21, its union with the first sacral nerve; 22, 22, lum- bar and sacral part of the sympathetic nerve ; 23, external cutaneous nerve from the lumbar plexus. Another large nerve divides into two sets of branches, which enter the vasttii^ inteimus and the crureus about the middle of those muscles. The nerve of the vastus internus, before pene- trating the muscular fasciculi, gives a small branch to the knee-joint. This articular nerve passes along the internal intermuscular sep- tum with a branch of the anastomotic artery, as far as the inner side of the joint, where it perforates the capsular ligament, and is directed outwards on the synovial membrane b)eneath the ligamentum patella. B. Middle cutaneous nerve.—The middle cutaneous nerve either pierces the fascia lata divided into two branches about four inches below Poupart's ligament, or as one trunk which soon separates into two branches. These branches descend side by side on the fore part of the thigh to the inner side and front of the patella. After or before the nerve has become subcutaneous, it communicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and also with the internal cutaneous. This nerve sometimes arises from the anterior crural, high up within the abdomen. C. Internal cutaneous nerve.—The internal cutaneous nerve gives branches to the skin on the inner side of the thigh, and the upper part of the leg; but the ■extent to which it reaches varies with the presence or absence of the occasional ■cutaneous " branch of the obturator nerve. Lying beneath the fascia lata, this nerve descends obliquely over the upper