MUSCLES OF THE XOSE. 260 12, depressor labii inferioris ; d, points to the cut ends of the levatores menti; 13, placed on the left masseter, points to the buccinator ; 13', buccinator, of the right side, a portion of the parotid duct passing through the muscle ; 14, levator anguli oris, seen also on the left side behind the zygomaticus minor. The remaining references will be given under the muscles of the neck. inserted under cover of the orbicularis muscle into the anterior surface of the tarsal cartilage. It will be described along with the muscles of the orbit. Varieties.—^The muscles of this group are not subject to great variation. The external fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum sometimes extend farther than usual, and take more intimate attachment to the corrugator supercilii, or blend with the zygomaticus minor or levator labii superioris. The tensor tarsi is not unfrequently divided into two parts. Actions.—The orbicularis palpebrarum closes the eyelids. In the ordinary closm-e of the eye, it is chiefly the upper lid which moves, being- depressed by the superior half of the palpebral part of the muscle ; but in forcible closure both eye- lids move, and not only come together, but are drawn towards the nose, at the same time that the eyebrows are di-awn downv*^ards and inv^ards, and the neigh- bouring skin of the face thrown into wrinkles, the whole fibres of the orbicularis being thus contracted and drawn towards the tendo palpebraram. In these circumstances the fibres which form the tensor tarsi, being contracted like the others, compress the lachrymal sac, and prevent the introduction into it of the lachry- mal secretion from the conjunctiva. The cormgator muscles draw the skin of the forehead dowuwards and inwards, producing longitudinal furrows, as in frowuing. The upper eyelid is suj^ported by the levator palpebrte, and droops when that muscle is paralysed. On the other hand, paralysis of the orbicularis is attended by an inability to close the eyelids. MUSCLES OP THE NOSE. Under this head may be conveniently grouped not only the com- pressor naris and smaller muscles which act upon the nose alone, but also the pyramidalis nasi which acts on the forehead, and the common levator of the nose and lip. The pyramidalis nasi, continuous with the innermost fibres of the frontalis muscle, extends downwards from the root of the nose, over the upper part of it, and terminates by a tendinous expansion in connection with the compressor naris muscle. The muscles of opposite sides, united superiorly, diverge slightly as they descend. The compressor naris, a thin triangular muscle, arises narrow and fleshy from the canine fossa in the superior maxillary bone, and pro- ceeding inwards, gradually expands into a thin aponeurosis, which is partly blended with that of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and with the pyramidalis nasi, and is partly attached to the cartilage of the nose. It is concealed at its origin by the proper elevator of the lip, and is crossed by the common elevator. The levator labii superioris alssque nasi, the common elevator of the lip and nose, lies along the side of the nose, extending from the inner margin of the orbit to the upper lip. It arises by a pointed process from the upper extremity of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, as it descends, separates into two fasciculi; one of these, much smaller than the other, becomes attached to the wing of the nose, whilst the other is prolonged to the upper lip, where it is blended with the orbicularis and the special elevator muscle. It is