MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 288 of Douglas), and a slip is frequently continued into it from the genio-liyo- glossus muscle. The two middle constrictors have been found connected behind to the base of the skull by muscular fibres or by a fibrous band (Albinus). The superior constrictor arises by fibres attaclied in series from below upwards, to the side of the tongue, to the mucous membrane of the mouth, to the extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the jaw, to the pterygo-maxiRary ligament, and to the lov/er third of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate. The fibres curve backwards, and are mostly blended with those of the corresponding muscle along the middle line, a few ending posteriorly in the aponeurosis which fixes the pharynx to the base of the skull. The upper margin curves round the levator palati and the Eustachian tube ; and the space intervening between this concave margin of the constrictor and the base of the skull is closed by fibrous membrane. Belntlons.—In contact with the outer surface of this muscle are the internal carotid artery, the eighth and other large nerves, the middle constrictor, which overlaps a considerable portion, and the stylo-pharyngeus, which descends to the pharynx between the two constrictors. It conceals the palato-pharyng-eus and the tonsil, and is lined by mucous membrane. It is united to the buccinator muscle anteriorly by the iDterygo-maxillary ligament. Varietj/.—The oxijfjos phariingh (Meckel) is a small mesial slip about half an inch in length, lying behind the upper and middle constrictors. It arises from the pharjaigeal spine on the under surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, and is inserted into the median raphe of the pharynx. The stylo-pharyngeusj larger and longer than the other styloid muscles, arises from the inner surface of the styloid process, near the root, and proceeding downwards and inwards to the side of the pharynx, passes under cover of the middle constrictor muscle, where it detaches some fibres to the constrictors, and, gradually expanding, is connected with the palato-pharyngeus muscle, and ends in the superior and post- erior borders of the thyroid cartilage. Bclnt'wm.—The external surface of this muscle is, in the upper part of its extent, in contact with the styloid process, the stylo-hyoideus muscle, and the external carotid artery ; in the lower, with the middle constrictor of the pharynx. Internally it rests on the internal carotid artery and jugular vein ; and lower down on the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The glosso-phaiyngeal nerve is close to the muscle, and crosses over it in turning forwards to the tongue. Va7'ietie,s\—The c/'phalo-jfhart/fir/eus (Sandifort) is a small occasional muscle which usually arises from the vaginal process of the temporal bone, but some- times also from the spine of the sphenoid or from the angle of the petrous bone (Macalister) ; in its course it is separated from the stylo-pharyngeus by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and it is finally lost below the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The mljnngo-jilinripu/eys (Santorini), arising by a tendon from the Eustachian tube, descends in the interior of the pharynx towards its back part, and, after joining with the jjalato-pharyngeus, is lost in the muscular structure of the cavity. The Soft Palate {velum jjendulum palati) is a movable curtain, continued backwards from the hard palate. It presents posteriorly a free pendulous margin, prolonged in the middle into a conical process, the vvula, and at each side into two prominent curved folds, the ante- rior of which, the anterior pillar of the fauces, descends to the side of the tongue, while the posterior fold, the posterior pillar of the fauces, runs downwards and backwards into the pharynx; between the two is