MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 290 meets its neighbour of the opposite side. In its upper part it is placed above the concave margin of the superior constrictor. The circumflexTis or tensor palati arises from the navicular fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, from the outer side of the Eustachian tube, from the spine of the sphenoid, and the edge of the tympanic plate of the temporal bone. It descends perpendicularly, resting on the internal pterygoid plate, between it and the internal pterygoid muscle, and ends in a tendon which, turning round the hamular process, where a synovial bursas smooths its passage, extends horizontally inwards, and terminates in the forepart of the aponeurosis of the soft palate and the under surface of the palate bone. Nerves.—The muscles of this group receive their nerves from various sources, some of which are not yet sufficiently determined. The stylo-pharyn- geus receives a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal ; the constrictors are supplied from the same and from the pharjaigeal plexus. The tensor palati receives a branch from the otic ganglion of the fifth nerve, the levator palati and azygos uvulte from the facial through the petrosal nerve of the Vidian, and the palato- glossus and palato-pharyngeus from the palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. Actions.—The muscles of the pharynx and soft palate are so arranged as to accomplish, in conjunction with those of the tongue and hyoid bone, the action of deglutition—that is to say. the propulsion of food into the oesophagus without any portion being permitted to pass into the nasal cavity or larjoix, while the tongue near the fauces is thrown upwards and backwards by the stylo-glossi muscles, and the larynx is drawn upwards and forwards under it by muscles attached to the hyoid-bone, and by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, so as to be both closed by the epiglottis and overlapped by the tongue, the palato-glossi muscles constrict the fauces and shut off the bolus from the mouth. The soft palate is raised and made tense by its superior muscles; the palato-pharjaigei, being api^roximated. nearly touch one another (the uvula lying in the small interval between them), and prevent the passage of the food towards the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares, while at the same time they form an inclined surface for its guidance into the lower part of the pharynx. The food being thus thrown into the grasp of the constrictors of the pharjoix, those muscles contract from above downwards and force it into the tube of the gullet below. The Eustachian tube, according to most anatomists, is opened during degluti- tion by the contraction of the levator palati and salpingo-pharyngeus muscles. It should, however, be mentioned that a different view is taken by Cleland, who hokls—and with him, to some extent, Luschka agrees—that the tube is closed during deglutition by the thickening which takes place during the contraction of the levator palati, pressing up the membranous floor of the canal against the firm upper and outer wall, so as completely to obliterate the opening. The salpuigo-pharyngeus, when present, assists the palato-pharyngeus and superior constrictor in elevating the pharynx. (See Joum. of Anat., vol. iii., p. 97.) SUBCUTANEOUS MUSCLE OP THE NECK. The platysma myoides is a pale-coloured thin sheet of muscular fibres, superficial to the deep cervical fascia, and extending over the front and sides of the neck and lower portions of the side of the face. Its fibres rise by thin bands from the clavicle and acromion, and from the fascia covering the upper part of the deltoid, pectoral, and trapezius muscles : thence they proceed upwards and inwards over the clavicle and the side of the neck, gradually narrowing and approaching the muscles of the opposite side. The greater number of the fibres are inserted into the outer surface of the lower jaw from the symphysis to the attachment of the masseter ; the inner fibres mingle with those of