SINOPSIS OF NERVE DISTEIBUTION. 626 the musculo-spiral nerve. The muscles in front of the forearm are supplied by the median nerve, with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve, and the supinator longus, which is supplied by the musculo-spiral. Muscles of the hand.—The abductor and opponens pollicis, the outer half of the flexor brevis polUcis, and the two outer lumbricales muscles, are supplied by the median nerve : all the other muscles receive their nerves from the ulnar. 5. To muscles of the lower limb.—Posterior muscles of the hi/p and thigh.—The gluteus maximus is mainly supplied by the small sciatic nerve, and receives at its upper part a separate branch from the sacral plexus. The gluteus medius and minimus, together with the tensor vaginse femoris, are supplied by the gluteal nerve. The pyriformis, gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris receive special branches from the sacral plexus. The hamstring muscles are supplied by branches from the great sciatic nerve. Antetior and internal muscles of the thigh.—The psoas muscle is sup- plied by separate twigs from the lumbar nerves. The iliacus, quadriceps extensor femoris, and sartorius are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. The adductor muscles, the obturator externus and the pectineus, are supplied by the obturator nerve, but the adductor magnus likewise receives a branch from the great sciatic, and the pectineus sometimes has a branch from the anterior crural. Anterior muscles of the leg and foot.—The muscles in fi'ont of the leg, together with the extensor brevis digitorum, are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The jJcroneus longus and drevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Posterior muscles of the leg.—The gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus, and popliteus are supplied by branches from the internal popliteal nerve ; the deep muscles, viz., the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and tibialis posticus, derive their nerves from the posterior tibial. Plantar muscles.—The flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor and flexor brevis pollicis, and the two inner lumbricales, are supplied by the internal plantar nerve ; all the others, including the flexor accessorius and interossei, are supplied by the external plantar nerve. III. SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The nerves of the sympathetic system are distributed in general to all the internal viscera, and to the coats of the blood-vessels. Some organs, however, receive their nerves also from the cerebro-spinal system, as the lungs, the heart, and the upper and lower parts of the alimentary canal. This division of the nervous system consists of a somewhat compli- cated collection of ganglia, cords and plexuses, the parts of which may, for convenience, be classified in three groups, viz., the principal gang- liated cords, the great prevertebral plexuses with the nerves proceeding from them, and the ganglia of union with cranial nerves. The great gangliated cords consist of two series, in each of which