479 THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEINS. The anterior jugular vein arises from the convergence of some superficial branches in tlie submaxillary region. This vessel lies along the fore part of the neck, sometimes near the sterno-mastoid muscle, and either terminates by inclining outwards to join the external jugular vein, or, after giving to it a branch of communication, sinks beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and ends in the subclavian vein. The lower ends of the two anterior jugular veins are frequently united by a transverse branch placed behind the sterno-mastoid muscles and top of the sternum. Varieties.—The external jugular vein is very variable in size. It is frequently rery small, and may be absent altogetlier. It is sometimes joined by the cephalic vein of the arm, or by a jugulo-cephalic branch of that vein running- up over the clavicle. The external jugular vein has also been seen to descend in front of the clavicle, and pass through the infra-clavicular fossa, to join the subclavian vein beneath the clavicle. The anterior jugular vein is likewise very variable. Internal Jugular Veins.—These veins, receiving the blood from the brain and cranial cavity, are continuous at their upper exti'emities with the lateral sinuses within the cranium, and terminate inferiorly in the innominate or brachio-cephalic veins. The commencement of each internal jugular vein at the wide part {jugular fossa) of the foramen jugulare, is somewhat enlarged, and has been named the sinus or gulf of the internal jugular vein. Beneath the skull, the vein is supported by the rectus lateralis muscle, and lies close to the outer side of the internal carotid artery, as far as the cornu of the os hyoides. It is joined at this point by the common facial vein, and becomes considerably enlarged ; it then descends parallel with the common carotid artery, lying at its outer side and enclosed in the same sheath, together with the vagus nerve. At the root of the neck it joins nearly at a right angle with the subclavian vein, and so forms the innominate or brachio-cephalic vein. Close to the lower termination of the jugular, or from half an inch to an inch above it, is placed a double valve as in other veins. (Struthers, " Anat. and Phys. Observ.," p. 173.) Tributaries.—Previously to to its junction with the facial vein, the internal jugular receives the lingual, pharyngeal, and occipital veins ; one or more of which, however, very frequently end in the common facial trunk. (a) the I'mgunl vein begins at the side and upper sui-face of the tongue, and passes backwards, receiving branches from the sublingual gland ; occasionally the ranine vein joins it, and sometimes also the phaiyngeal. {!)) The pilaryngeal vein commences at the back and sides of the pharynx, and sometimes ends in the superior thyroid vein, and at other times in the lingual, or separately in the internal jugular vein. (r) The occipital vein, corresponding in course and distribution with the occipital artery, communicates with a plexus of veins upon the occiput, and terminates occasionally in the external jugular veici, but more frequently in the internal. {d) The common facial vein has been already described. (c) The laryvgral vein receives branches from the larjTix through the thyro- hyoid membrane, and opens into the internal jugular, the common facial, or sometimes into the superior thyroid vein. (/) The fivprrior thyroid vein commences by branches in the thyroid body, in company with those of the superior thyroid arteiy, and runs transversely outwards.