THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. 473 the parts, and will be more fully referred to at p. 485, in connection with the description of the great cardiac vein. The superior vena cava in one case has been seen to be joined by one of the pulmonary veins (Meckel). In several cases two superior Fig. 302. venae cava? have been found, a rig-ht and a left, the left always opening- into the left auricle, and in one case being joined by a pulmonary vein. (Hyi-tl, Gruber, Luschka.) Pig. 302.—Sketch op the Principal Venous Trunks, together with the Thoracic Duct. ^ a, the basilar i)rocess of the occipital bone, through which and the temporal bones a trans- verse incision has been made so as to lay open the jugular foramen on both sides ; 6, the fifth cervi- cal vertebra ; c, the first rib ; d, the sixth ; e, the twelfth ; /, the fifth lumbar vertebra ; 1, vena cava superior divided at the place of its entrance into the right auricle ; 2, right, 2', left subcla- vian veins ; 3, right internal jugular vein ; 3', 3', lower part of the lateral sinuses of the dura mater ; that of the right side shows at its junction with the jugular vein the bulb which lies in the jugular depression of the temporal bone ; 4, right, and 4', left external jugular veins ; 5, right, and 5', left vertebral veins, anastomosing with 5", external vertebral veins, before joining the sub- clavian veins ; 6, placed on left subclavian vein below the opening of the last, and of the thoi'acic duct; below 6, the inferior thyroid veins ; 7, 7', the internal mammary veins; 8, the left superior intercostal vein joining the left brachio-cephalic vein, and anastomosing below with intercostal veins which join the trunk of the azygos ; the right superior intercostal vein is seen joining the azygos vein ; 9, main or right azygos vein ; 9', the left azygos, represented here as crossing the vertebral column on the eighth vertebi-a ; 10, the thoracic duct ; 11, trunk of the inferior vena cava at the place of junction of the renal veins ; the vena cava is seen dividing on the fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac veins ; 12, the union of the left azygos vein with the left renal vein ; 13, on the right side, the commencement of the right azygos vein in the lumbar region, joined by several lumbar veins ; 13', the commencement of the azygos vein of the left side, joining similar veins on that side ; 14, 14', the external iliac veins ; 15, placed on the promontory of the sacnim, points on either side to the prolongation of the lower branches of the right and left lumbar veins into the pelvis, and their union with sacral and other branches of the internal iliac veins. "33 INNOMINATE OR BRACHIO-CEPHaLIC VEINS. The blood returned from the upper limbs through the subclavian veins, and from the head and neck by the jugular veins, is poured into two trunks, named the brachio-cephalic or innominate veins. These vessels, resulting from