IGl SACRO-ILIAC ARTICULATION. VOL. I. M occur till a more advanced age ; the pieces of the coccyx uniting one to another in the &-st place, and the joint between the sacrum and coccyx not ossifying- till old age. The mobility seems to increase during pregnancy. The sacro-iliac articulatioj^, often named the mcro-iliac .v////- cliondrosis, is formed between the amiciilar smfaces of the sacrum and ilium, which are bound together by a plate of cartilage, and by strong ligaments (see fig. 148). The auricular cartilaginous plate unites the bones with great firm- ness. When the ilium and sacrum are forcibly torn asunder, this plate usually separates into two layers, one of which adheres to the surface of each bone. In some instances a small cayity naturally exists between these two plates of cartilage, and in advanced life small spaces con- taining glairy fluid are liable to be formed between them. Even when separate in part, however, these plates are very closely applied, and admit only a limited amount of movement. The cavity of this articu- lation becomes more apparent, and the ligaments somewhat looser before parturition. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a large number of strong irregular fibres extending across the interval between the pos- Fig. 146. Fig. 146.—Ligaments op the Pelvis and Hip-Joint, seen from behind, prom a Female Subject. (A. T.) ^ 1, ilio-lumbar ligament : above it the last lumbar intertransverse ligament; 2, posterioi- sacro-iliac ligaments, the short and the oblique ; 3, great sacro-sciatic ligament ; 4, lesser sacro-sciatic ligament ; 5, obturator membrane ; 6, posterior ligament of symphysis pubis ; 7, 7, continuation of supraspinous ligaments from the lower lumbar vertebra; over the sacral spines ; 8, transverse process of last lumbar vertebra, to which from above is seen descending the last intertransverse ligament, and from below ascending the sacro-vertebral ligament ; 9, posterior surface of the cajDsular ligament of the liip- joint. The posterior ligaments passing between the sacrum and coccyx are also partially shown.