rOSTEEIOR DIVISIONS OF SPINAL NEEYES. 573 splenius and complexus have been divided in the neck, and the erector spinte separated and partially removed in the back, so as to expose the deep issue of the nerves. a, a, lesser occipital nerve from the cervical plexns ; 1, external muscular branches of the first cervical nerve and union by a loop with the second ; 2, placed on the rectus capitis posticus major, marks the great occipital nerve passing round the short musclesi and i)iercing the comi^lexus ; the external branch is seen to the outside ; 2', cranial dis- tribution of the great occipital ; 3, external branch of the posterior primary division of the third nerve ; 3', its internal branch, or third occipital nerve ; 4', 5', 6', 7', 8', internal branches of the several corresponding nerves on the left side ; the external branches of these nerves preceding to muscles are displayed on the right side : d 1 to. d 6, and thence to (Z 12, external muscular branches of the posterior primary divisions of the twelve dorsal nerves on the right side ; d 1', to d 6', the internal cutaneous branches of the six upper dorsal nerves on the left side ; d 7' to d 12', cutaneous branches of the six lower dorsal nerves from the external branches ; I, I, external branches of the pos- terior primary branches of several lumbar nerves on the right side piercing the muscles, the lower descending over the gluteal region ; I', I', the same more superficially on the left side ; s, s, on the right side, the issue and union by loops of the posterior primary divisions of four sacral nerves ; s\ s', some of these distributed to the skin on the leftside. A cntayieous IrancJi is occasionally g-iven to the back of the head; it accom- panies the occipital artery, and is connected beneath the integument with the great and small occipital nerves. Cervical Nerves {exceijiing the sul-occipital). — The external "branches give only muscular offsets, and are distributed to the spleniusp and the slender muscles prolonged to the neck from the erector spin^e, viz., the cervicalis ascendens, and the transversal is colli with the trachelo-mastoid. That of the second nerve is the largest of the series of external branches, and is often united to the corresponding branch of the third; it supplies the complexus muscle which covers- it, and ends in the splenius and trachelo-mastoid muscles. The internal branches, larger than the external, are differently disposed at the upper and the lower parts of the neck. That of the second cervical nerve is named, from its size and destination, the great occipital, and requires separate notice. The rest are directed inwards, to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Those derived from the third, fourth, and fifth nerves pass over the semispinalis and beneath the complexus muscle, and, having reached the spines of the vertebrae, turn transversely outwards and are distributed in the integument over the trapezius muscle. From the cutaneous branch of the third nerve a branch passes upwards to the integument on the lower part of the occiput, lying at the inner side of the great occipital nerve, and is some- times called third occipital nerve. Between the inner branches of the first three ceiTical nerves, beneath the complexus, there are frequently communicating- fasciculi; and this communica- tion Cruveilhier has designated as " the posterior cervical plexus." The internal branches from the lowest three cervical nerves are placed beneath the semispinalis muscle, and end in the muscular structure, without furnishing (except occasionally the sixth) any offset to the skin. These three nerves are the smallest of the series. The great occipital nerve is directed upwards on the lower oblique muscle, and is transmitted to the surface through the complexus and trapezius _ muscles, giving twigs to the complexus. Ascending with the occipital artery, it divides into branches which radiate over the occipital part of the occipito-fi'ontalis muscle, some appearing to enter the muscle, and others joining the smaller occipital nerve. An avricnlar hmnch is sometimes supplied to the back of the ear by the grcals occipital nerye.