272 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The zygomaticus minor, a very small muscle, arises from the an- terior and inferior part of the malar bone, and inclines downwards and forwards to terminate by joining the outer margin of the levator labii snperioris; sometimes near the origin of that muscle. It lies internal to the zygomaticus major, but distinct from it in its whole length. The zygomaticus major, placed externally to the smaller muscle of the same name, arises from the malar bone near the zygomatic suture, from which it descends to the angle of the mouth, where it is continued into the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris. Varieties.—The zygomaticus minor is frequently absent; or it may fall short of the mouth, and be inserted into the fascia of the cheek. It may arise wholly or in part from the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it has also been observed joined to the zygomaticus major, or to the levator labii superioris, or even to the outer fibres of the frontalis (Eustachius). It has frequently been found double. The zygomaticus major has also been found double, or it may be double merely at its origin. Sometimes it arises from the masseteric fascia below the zygoma. (Macalister.) The risorius, or smiling muscle (Santorini), is generally regarded as a part of the platysma myoides. It consists of some very thin fasciculi, which commence in the fascia over the masseter, or on the parotid gland, and, extending transversely inwards in the fat of the cheek, join the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris at the angle of the mouth. Varieties.—The risorius has been seen to arise from the integument over the upper end of the sterno-mastoid (Hallet) ; from the zygoma (McWhinnie) ; from the external ear (Albinus) ; and from the fascia over the mastoid process (Mac- alister). It was found double and even triple by Santorini. The lower and lateral part of the face receives a superficial muscular covering from the facial part of the platysma myoides, which is in- corporated with the muscles of the angle of the mouth and lower lip, and passes along with the superficial fascia over the base of the jaw into the cervical portion of the muscle ; while the anterior portion of the cervical platysma, continuous externally with the facial, takes firm attachment to the base of the jaw for a length of two inches or more external to the symphysis. The l3uccinator muscle consists of a flat and thin but strong set of fibres in contact with the mucous membrane, and forming a consider- able part of the wall of the mouth. It is attached by its upper and lower margins to the outer surface of the alveolar parts of the maxillary bones, opposite the molar teeth, and by its posterior margin to the 'pteryrjo-maxUlary ligament, a narrow band of tendinous fibres, which extends from the internal pterygoid plate to the mylohyoid ridge of the lower jaw close to the last molar tooth, and is placed between the buccinator muscle and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. From these points the fibres of the muscle are directed forwards, approaching each other, so that the muscle is narrowed and proportionally thickened near the angle of the mouth, where it becomes incorporated with the orbicularis. The fibres near the middle of the muscle cross each other, those from above passing into the lower lip, and those from below into the upper one ; but the higher and lower fibres are directed into the corresponding lip without decussation. Relations.—The buccinator is covered and supported by a thin fascia, which is closely adherent to the muscular fibres ; and is overlapped by the triangularis