BONES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 47. 54 Fig. 47.—The Inferior Max- of a pair of articular surfaces or condyles. It has the shape of an inverted arch bent forwards upon itself, and consists of a middle larger and horizontal part—the body, and of two rami or ascending- branches. The iody is marked in the middle by a vertical ridge, indicating the original division of the bone into two lateral parts, and thence named the sT/mphijsis. The superior or alveolar border is hollowed out into sockets for the teeth. The inferior border, thicker anteriorly than benejith the ramus, is slightly everted in front, constituting the chin, or Qnentum, a prominence peculiar to the human skull. On the outer surface, on each side of the symphysis, below the incisor teeth, is a shallow depression, the incisor fossa, which gives origin to the levator menti muscle, and, more externally, the lali^d or mental foramen, which transmits the branches of the inferior dental nerve and artery. From beneath the mental foramen an elevation, the external oUique line, extends upwards and outwards to the anterior border of the ramus. The deep surface is marked, on each side of the symphysis, along the inferior margin, by an oval depression, indicating the anterior attach- ment of the digastric muscles, and above them by two pairs of illary Bone, from the right side and above. (a. T.) i 1, the body ; 2, tlie sym- physis ; 3, the ramus ; 4, the angle, near it the oblique ridges marked by the attachment of the masseter muscle ; 5, the coronoid process ; 6, the con- dyle or articular head ; 7, placed in the sigmoid notch, points tO' the front of the neck ; 8, the mental foramen ; 9, the external oblique ridge ; 10, the inferior dental foramen and mylo-hyoid groove of the left side. This figure represents a full set of the teeth of the lower jaw in middle life. (See also, for the view of the inner surface of the lower jaw, figure 54, the vertical section of the skull.) prominent tubercles, spincd mentales, placed closely together, giving attachment, the upper pair to the genio-hyo glossi, and the lower to the genio-hyoidei muscles. An oblique prominent line, the mylo- hyoidean ridge, leading from beneath the spinse mentales, upwards and outwards to the ramus, gives attachment to the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Above this line is a smooth depression for the sublingual gland, and beneath and external to it another for the submaxillary gland. The rarn us is thinner than the body of the bone. Its posterior border in meeting the line of the base forms the angle of the jaw. The external surface is flat and uneven, and towards the angle stronger ridges mark the place of attachment of the masseter muscle. The internal surface presents at its middle the inferior dental foramen, leading into the dental canal, which lodges the dental nerve and vessels. Passing