498 THE ILIAC VEINS. by which they are both invested. In the lower part of its course, the vein receives all the branches which accompany the olfsets of the chief artery. In the npper part, the deep femoral vein opens into it, having first received all the branches from muscles supplied by the deep femoral artery. Near its termination the femoral vein is joined by the in- ternal saphenous vein. Varieties.—The femoral vein occasionally pursues a course different from that of the artery along the thig-h. Extending upwards from the popliteal space, the vein in such cases perforates the adductor magnus above the ordinary posi- tion, and, joining with the deep femoral vein, first approaches the femoral artery at the groin. The same vein is sometimes double in a small part, or more rarely in almost its whole length. EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. The external iliac vein is the continuation of the femoral vein from Poupart's ligament to the junction of the internal iliac vein, in the neighbourhood of the sacro-iliac articulation. It is at first internal to the artery, and on the left side it continues in that position, but on the right side it gradually inclines somewhat behind the artery. It does not possess valves. Tributaries.—Near its commencement at Poupart's ligament, the external iliac vein receives the circumfiex iliac and the epigastric veins. INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. The internal iliac vein is formed by the union of branches which accompany the corresponding branches of the internal iliac artery. The umbilical vein of the foetus, however, which in the cord accompanies the corresponding arteries, diverges from these arteries within the body, and passes upwards to the liver. The internal iliac vein lies behind the corresponding artery in front of the sacro-iliac articulation, and, after a short course upwards to the margin of the pelvis, joins with the external iliac vein to form the common iliac. No valves are found in the trunk of the internal iliac vein, but they exist in its branches. Tributaries.—The tributaries of the internal iliac vein correspond in general to the various branches of the internal iliac artery, with the exception that the internal pudic vein does not receive the main supply of blood from the dorsal vein of the penis. The visceral veins are remarkable for their size and frequent anastomoses, and have been described as forming a series of plexuses, severally named the vesical, jjTostatic, Immorrlioidal, uterine, and vaginal. The vesical plexus consists of vessels which ramify over the whole of the bladder external to its muscular coat, being particularly large and numerous towards the base of the organ, where they are closely con- nected with the prostatic and hsemorrhoidal plexuses in the male, and with the vaginal plexus in the female. The prostatic plexus receives two large vessels, one at each side, the divisions of the dorsal vein of the penis. These, coursing down- wards and backwards on the sides of the prostate gland, expand into a close network at the base of the gland, which is quite encircled by it. The hsemorrhoidal plexus consists of enlarged and copiously anas- tomosing veins in the walls of the lower part of the rectum, imme- I