INNOMINATE BONE. 101 ilkmi, OS piih's and ischium. These three portions meet at the aceta- bulum, in the formation of which thej all take part ; and the os pubis and ischium also meet on the inner side of the obturator foramen. Fig. 88.—Right Os Innominatum FROM THE DORSAL ASPECT. (A. T.) ^ 1, anterior superior ; 2, anterior inferior spinous process ; 3, pos- terior superior ; 4, posterior in- ferior spinous process ; 5, crest of the ilium ; 6, surface occupied by the gluteus medius muscle above the superior curved line ; above 3 and 4 is a rough surface to which the gluteus maximus is attached ; 7, surface between the superior and inferior curved lines occupied by the gluteus minimus ; 8, groove above the acetabulum for the pos- terior tendon of the rectus femoris; 9, superior ramus of the pubis, and pectineal eminence ; 10, crest and spinous process of the pubis: 11, place of meeting of the descending ramus of the pubis with the as- cending ramus of the ischium ; 12, spine ; and 13, tuberosity of the ischium ; 14, cartilaginous surface of the acetabulum ; 15, synovial de- pression and pit for the round ligament; 16, thyroid or obturator foramen; 17, greater, and 18, lesser sciatic notches. The ilium constitutes the superior expanded portion of the bone, and forms a part of the wall of the acetabulum by its inferior extremity. Above the acetabulum it is limited anteriorly and posteriorly by margins which diverge at right angles one from the other, and superiorly by an arched thick and extensive border, 5, the crista ilU. The crest is curved like the letter /, the anterior extremity pointing slightly inwards and the posterior outwards ; its surface is broadest in its anterior and pos- terior thirds, it is rough for the attachment of muscles, and on it may be distinguished an external and internal lip and an intermediate space. The anterior extremity of the crest forms a projection forwards called the anterior su-perior spine of the iUian, and, separated from it. by a concave border, and placed immediately above the acetabulum, is another eminence called the anterior inferior sjnne: the projecting posterior extremity of the crest forms the posterior superior spine, and separated from it by a notch is the posterior iiiferior spine, below which the posterior border of the bone is hollowed out into the great sciatic notch. The external surface, or dorsum of the ilium, concavo- convex from behind forwards, presents, close to the posterior extremity of the crest, a roughness of some extent, to which the gluteus maximus muscle is attached, and is traversed by two rough arched lines, one of which, the superior curved line, beginning in front, at the upper border of the bone, about an inch and a half from its Fig. 88. 5