593 BRANCHES OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. (Jj) The external cu^ancom hmnchett, two in number, arise where the nerv^e pierces the external intennuscular septum. The upper' hrctnch, the smaller of the two, is directed downwards to tlie foi'o part of the elbow, along- the cephalic vein, and distributes filaments to the lower half of the upper arm on the anterior aspect. The lon-er hmiich extends as far as the wrist, distributing offsets to the lower half of the arm, and to the fore- arm, on their posterior aspect, and is connected near the wrist with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve. Fig. 363. Fig. 363.—Dorsal Cutaneous Nerves OF THE Hand, h The distribution delineated in this figiu-e is not tlie most common, there being a larger tlir.n usual branch of the ulnar nerve: 1, the radial nerve descending "beside the principal radial cutaneous vein ; 2 and 3, dorsal branches to tlie two sides of the tliuml) ; 4, branch to the radial side of the forefinger ; 5, branch to the forefinger and middle finger, communi- cating with one from the ulnar nei-ve ; 6, the posterior branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, communicating twig ; 8, collateral branch to the middle and ring fingers ; 9, collateral branch to the ring and little ringers ; 10, branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger. Radial nerve. — Tlie radial nerve, continuing straight down from the muscnlo-spiral, is con- cealed by the long supinator mus- •cle, and lies a little to the outer side of the radial artery. This position beneath the supinator is .retained to about three inches from the lower end of the radius, wiiere the nerve turns backwards beneath the tendon of the muscle, and becomes subcutaneous. It 'then separates into two branches, which ramify in the integument on the dorsal aspect of the thumb and the next two fingers in the fol- lowing manner. («) The external hraneh extends to the radial side of the thumb, and is joined hj an offset of the external cutaneous nerve. It distributes filaments over the baU of the thiunb. ih) The internal portion communicates with a branch of the external cuta- neous nerve on the back of the forearm, and divides into digital branches ; one running along the ulnar side of the thumb, a m'ond on the radial side of the index finger, a third dividing to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, while a fourth joins with an offset from the dorsal branch of the ■ulnar, and along with it forms a branch for the supply of the contiguous sides of the middle aud ring fingers. These branches communicate on the sides of the ■fingers with the palmar digital nerves. Sometimes the interspace between the middle and ring fingers is entirely sup- plied by the radial, and at other times entirely by the ulnar neiwe. VOL. I. ^ ^