THE JOINTS IN GENERAL. 132 Aniphiarthrosis means the mixed articulation, or that in which there is mediate union by some intervening substance, with partial mobility. The articulations between the bodies of the vertebrae, that between the two ossa pubis at the symphysis, and that between the two first pieces of the sternum, may be taken as examples of this mode of connection. Some of the joints of this kind pass on the one hand into synarthrosis, and on the other into diarthrosis. Diarthrosis includes the complete joints, with synovial cavities sepa- rating the surfaces of the articular bones, and is attended with consider- able yet varying degrees of mobility. In this form of joint, plates of carti- lage cover the articular parts of the bones and present within the joint free surfaces of remarkable smoothness, and these surfaces are further lubricated by the synovial fluid secreted from the delicate membrane which lines the fibrous coverings and all other parts of the articulating cavity except the cartilage. This membrane is continuous with the margin of the articular cartilages, and along with them completely encloses the joint cavity. The bones are further held together by fibrous tissue in the various forms of ligaments, such as membranous capsules, flat bands, or rounded cords. These ligaments, it is true, are not so tight as to maintain the bones in close contact in all positions of the joint, but are rather tightened in some positions and relaxed in others, so that they may be looked upon chiefly as controllers of move- ments. The bones are likewise held together in diarthrodial joints, by atmospheric pressure, and by the surrounding muscles. Certain forms of diarthrodial joint have received special names. The term ginglymus is used to distinguish a hinge joint, or one which admits only of flexion and extension, like the elbow, knee and ankle. Enartlirosis (Cruveil- hier) is the ball-and-socket form of joint, like the shoulder and hip, allowing motion in every direction. Arthrodia is a joint with nearly flat surfaces, which admits of gliding movement merely, as in the arti- culations of the carpus, tarsus, and articular processes of the vertebra. Various Kinds of Movement.—The various movements of the bones in diarthrodial joints are distinguished by different terms ac- cording to their directions, viz., angular movement, circumduction, rotation, and gliding; but it is proper to remark that although different kinds of movement, answering to these several terms, may readily be recognised, yet they are rarely of only one kind in any joint, but rather several kinds of movement are frequently combined, and they also run into one another in great variety. Angular movement is movement in such a manner as to increase or diminish the angle between two bones, so that they shall lie more or less nearly in a straight line. The different kinds of angular movement are designated by different terms according to the directions in which they take place with reference to the limb or body: thus flexion and extension indicate angular movements, which have the effect of bending or straightening parts upon one another or upon the trunk of the body: adduction and adduction indicate angular movement to and fi'om the mesial plane of the body, or, when fingers and toes are referred to, these terms may be used to denote movement to and from the middle line of the hand or foot. Coaptation is a form of angular movement, in which, as in the movement of the patella on the femur the articular sto-face of one bone travels over that of another, so as to bring different parts of the surfaces successively into contact in,