THE CRANIAL NERVES. '546 lary near the origin of the nerve for the external pterygoid muscle, and which, from its being occasionally separate from the rett of the inferior dental nerve till after it enters the dental canal, has been called the lesser inferior dental (Sappolini, " Omodei Annali," 1869). The mylo-hyoid frequently gives off a small branch, which pierces the mylo-hyoid muscle and joins the lingual nerve. This anasto- mosis is said by Sappey to be constant. Otic Ganglion. The otic ganglion, or ganglion of Arnold, of a reclclish-grey colour, is situated on the deep surface of the lower maxillary trunk, nearly at the point of junction of the motor fasciculus with that nerve, and around the origin of the internal pterygoid branch. Its inner surface is close to the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube and the circumflexus palati muscle ; and behind it is the middle meningeal artery. Connection with nerves—i^oots.—The ganglion is connected with the lower maxillary nerve, especially with the branch furnished to the in- ternal pterygoid muscle, and with the auriculo-teniporal nerve, and thus obtains motor and sensory roots ; it is brought into connection with the sympathetic by a filament from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery. It likewise receives the small superficial petrosal nerve, which emerges from the petrous bone by the small foramen internal to the canal of the tensor tympani muscle, and reaches the exterior of the skull by piercing the sphenoid bone close to the foramen spinosum. By this nerve the ganglion forms a communication with the glosso-pharyngeal and facial nerves. Branches.—Two small nerves are distributed to muscles—one to the tensor of the membrane of the tympanum, the other to the circumflexus or tensor palati. Fig. 341. Fig. 341.—Otic Gang- lion AND ITS Connec- tions FROM THE In- side (from Sappey after Arnold). | This figure exhibits a view of the lateral por- tion of the skull with a part of the nasal fossa and lower jaw of the right side ; the petrous bone has been removed so as to show the inner surface of the membrana tj^mpani and the canal of the facial nerve. 1, smaller motor root of the fifth nerve passing down on the inside of the Grasserian ganglion to unite with the inferior maxillary division ; 2, inferior dental nerve entering the canal of the lower jaw ; 3, mylo-hyoid branch, seen also farther down emerging in front of the internal pterygoid muscle; 4, lingual or gustatory nerve ; 5, chorda tympani; 6, facial nerve in its canal; 7, auriculo-temporal nerve, enclosing in its loop of origin the middle meningeal artery; 8, otic ganglion ; 9, small superficial petrosal nerve joining the ganglion; 10, branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; 11, twig connecting the ganglion with the temporo-auricular nerve ; 12, twig to the ganglion from the sympathetic nerves on the meningeal artery ; 13, branch to the internal pterygoid muscle ; 14, branch to the tensor palati muscle.