VEINS OF THE DIPLOE. 485 according to the arterial branches which they accompany, join to form a short single trunk, which leaves the orbit by the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure, where it is placed between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and terminates in the cavernous sinus. Varieties.—Not unfrequently one of the frontal veins is much larger than the others, and descending vertically near the middle of the forehead, joins the facial and a branch of the ophthalmic vein on one side of the root of the nose. VEINS OP THE DIPLOE. The veins of the diploe of the cranial bones are only to be seen after the pericranium is detached, and the external table of the skull carefully removed by means of a file. Lodged in canals hollowed in the substance of the bones, their branches form an irregular network, from which a few larger vessels issue. These are directed downwards at different parts of the cranium, and terminate, partly in the veins on the outer surface of the bones, and partly in the sinuses at the base of the skull. Fig. 309.—Veins of THE Diploe of the Cranial Bones (after Breschet). ^ The external table has been removed from the .greater part of the cal- varium so as to expose the diploe and the veins wliicli have been in- jected. 1, a single frontal vein ; 2, 3, the a,nterior temporal vein of the right side; 4, the posterior temporal ; f), the occipital vein of the dii^Ioe. According to Bres- chet there are four such veins on each half of the cranium, viz., a frontal, an occipital, and two temporal. The frontal is small, and issues by an aperture at the supra-orbital notch to join the vein in that situation. There is often only one frontal vein present. The tenqwral are distinguished as anterior and posterior. The anterior is con- tained chiefly in the frontal bone, but may extend also into the parietal, and opens into the temporal vein, after escaping by an apeii:ure in the great wing of the sphenoid. The posterior ramifies in the parietal bone, and passes through an .aperture at the lower and hinder angle of that bone to the lateral sinus. The ocrijj'ital is the largest of all; and leaves the occipital bone opposite the inferior curved line to open, either internally or externally, into the occipital sinus or the occipital vein. Its ramifications are confined especially to the occi- pital bone. VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The veins of the upper limb are divisible into two sets, the super- ficial, and the deep-seated. Both sets are provided with valves, and