167 THE KNEE-JOINT. back is another band, the short cxkrnal lateral Hfiament, the an-angemeiit of which is more yariable ; it is often connected with the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and occasionally terminates in the capsular membrane. The posterior ligament is a flat fasciculus of fibres passing from behind the inner tuberosity of the tibia upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, and is in part continuous at its inner end with the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. Fig. 149. A B Fig. 149, A.—Right Knee-Joint, prom the inside and anteriorly. (A. T.) ^ 1, tendon of the rectus muscle near its insertion into the patella ; 2, insei*tion of the vastus internus into the rectus tendon and side of the patella ; 3, ligamentuiu patelliB descending to the anterior tuberosity of the tibia ; 4, capsular fibres forming a lateral ligament of the patella prolonged in part from the insertion of the vastus internus down- wards towards the inner tuberosity of the tibia : 5, internal lateral ligament; 6, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. (After Arnold.) Fig. 149, B.—Knee-Joint from behind. (A. T.) 1, insertion of the tendon of adductor magnus ; 2, origin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle ; 3, outer head of the same ; 4, cord-like external lateral ligament ; 5, tendon of the popliteus muscle : a ligament descending from behind the outer condyle of the femur is seen attached to this tendon below, and another descending from the tendon is attached to the head of the fibula, constituting the short external lateral liga- ment ; 6, part of internal lateral ligament ; 7, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle ; 8, posterior ligament of Winslow, spreading outwards from the tendon ; 9, expansion of the popliteal fascia downwards from the same, represented as cut short ; 10, on the head of fibula, marks the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament ; 11, upper part of the interosseous ligament, with the foramen above it for the anterior tibial artery. The ligamentum patellae is a strong flat tendinous band, attached superiorly to the lower extremity of the patella, and the depression beneath its articular surface, and inferiorly to the anterior tubercle of