599 THE LUMBAE PLEXUS. two branches proceed; one of these, the larger, forms part of the anterior crural nerve; the other, a part of the obturator nerve. The fourth nerve gives two branches, which serve to complete the obturator Fig. 366. — Diagrammatic Fig. 366. Outline of the Lumbar AND Sacral Plexuses with THE PRINCIPAL NeRVBS ARISING FROM THEM. ^ D,XII, placed opposite tlie divided roots of the last dorsal nerve ; L,I to V, opposite the roots of the five lumbar nerves : the loops uniting the anterior primary divisions of these nerves together, and the first vnth. the twelfth dorsal are shown; S,I to V, and G,I, the same in the sacral and coccy- geal nerves ; p, placed on some of the nerves marks the pos- terior primaiy divisions cut short ; j?' the plexus formed by the union of the posterior branches of the third, fourth, and fifth sacral and the coccy- geal nerves ; d, the abdominal continuation of the last dorsal nerve, from which d' the iliac cutaneous branch arises ; 1, 1', "the ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal branches of the first lumbar nerve ; 2, the genito- crural rising by a loop from the first and second lumbar ; 2', external cutaneous of the thigh rising by a loop from the second and third ; ps, branches to the psoas muscle along the lumbar plexus ; cr, anterior crural nerve from the second, third, and fourth lumbar ; iZ, branches to the iliacus ; ob, obturator nerve from the se- cond, third, and fourth lumbar nerves ; oh, accessory obtura- tor ; IV', V, loop from the fourth and fifth lumbar, form- ing the lumbo-sacral cord ; 3, superior gluteal nerve ; sc, .sacral plexus ending in the great sciatic nerve ; 4, lesser sciatic nerve rising from the plexus posteriorly ; 4', inferior gluteal branches ; 5, inferior puden- dal ; 5', posterior cutaneous of the thigh and leg ; 6, 6, branches to the obturator in- ternus and gemellus superior ; 6', 6', branches to the gemellus inferior, quadratus and hip-joint ; 7, twigs to the pyriformis ; 8, 8, pudic nerve from the first, second, third, and fourth sacral ; 9, visceral branches ; 9', twig to the levator ani ; 10, cutaneous from the fourth, which jjasses round the lower border of the gluteus maxiiuus ; 11, coccygeal branches.