Fig. 346.—Sketch OF THE Tympanic THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. Branch of the Glosso-Pharyn- Fig. 346. 555 front of the others, this nerve is contained in a groove, or in a canal in the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and presents, successively, two ganglionic enlargements,—the jugular gang- lion, and the petrous ganglion. After leaving the skull, the glosso-pharjngeal nerve appears between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein, and is directed down- vrards over the carotid artery and beneath the styloid process and the muscles connected with, it, to the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Here, changing its direction, the nerve curves inwards to the tongue, on the stylo-pharyngeus and the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx, above the upper laryngeal nerve ; and, passing beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, ends in branches for the pharynx, the tonsil, and the tongue. The jugular ganglion, the smaller of the two ganglia of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, is situated at the upper part of the osseous groove in which the nerve is laid during its passage through the jugular foramen. Its length is from half a line to a line, and the breadth from half to three-fourths of a line. It is placed on the outer side of the trunk of the nerve, and involves only a part of the fibres,—a small fasciculus passing over the ganglion, and joining the nerve below it. GEAL Nerve, and its Connections (from Breschet). A, squamous part of the left tem- poral bone ; B, petrous part : C, in- ferior maxillary nerve ; D, internal carotid artery; a, tensor tympani muscle ; 1, carotid plexus ; 2, otic ganglion; 3, glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 4, tympanic nerve; 5, twigs to the carotid plexus ; 6, twig to fenestra rotunda; 7, twig to fenestra ovalis ; 8, junction with the large superficial petrosal nerve ; 9, small superficial petrosal; 10, twig to the tensor tym- pani muscle; 11, facial nerve; 12, chorda tympani; 13, petrous ganglion of the glosso-phai-yngeal; 14, twig to the membrane of the Eustachian tube. The petrous ganglion is contained in a hollow in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone (receptaculum ganglioli petrosi), and measures about three lines in length. This ganglion includes all the filaments of the nerve, and resembles the gangliform enlargement of the facial nerve. From it arise the small branches by which the glosso-pharyngeal is connected with other nerves at the base of the skull ; these are the tympanic nerve, and the branches which join the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic. Connecting branches, and tympanic branch.—From the petrous ganglion spring thi-ee small connecting filaments. One passes to the auricular branch of the pnemno-gastric, one to the upper ganglion of the sympathetic or vice vcr.sd,