THE FEMUK. 107 pelvis is more nearly circular,-the sacral promontory projecting less into it; the sacrum is flatter and broader ; the depth of the symphysis pubis is less, the pubic arch is much wider, and the space between the tuberosities of the ischia greater. The average dimensions of the pelvis, as measured in a number of full-sized males and females, may be stated as follow, in inches :— Distance between the widest part of the crests of the ilia Distance between the anterior superior spines of the ilia Distance between the front of sym- physis pubis and the sacral spines True Pelvis. Transverse diameter Oblique diameter . . . . Antero-posterior diameter . Male. Female. 10 to 11 9^ to 10 6^—7 10^ to 11 10 — 10^ 61 - 71 Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. 41 4 41 41 :U 4" •J 4 5 5 ■H H 4| 5 THE FEMUR. The femur or thigh bone, the largest bone of the skeleton, is situated between the os innominatum and the tibia. In the erect position of the body it inclines inwards and slightly backwards as it descends, so as to approach inferiorly its fellow of the opposite side, and to have its upper end a little in advance of the lower. It is divisible into a superior extremity, including the head and neck and two eminences called trochanters, the shaft, and an inferior extremity expanded into an external and an internal condyle. At the superior extremitij of the bone, the neclc, surmounted by the head, extends inwards, upwards, and slightly forwards, being set upon the shaft at an angle of about 125° or 130°. The neck has a con- stricted appearance, and its diameter from before backwards is less than in the vertical direction, in which last greater strength is required to sustain the weight of the body. It is shorter superiorly than inferiorly, and the anterior surface is shorter than the posterior. The head forms more than half a sphere, and is covered with cartilage in the fresh state. Behind and below its central point is a small depres- sion, which gives attachment to the round ligament of the hip joint. The trochanter major is a thick truncated process prolonged upwards in a line with the external surface of the shaft. In front it is marked by the insertion of the gluteus minimus ; externally an oblique line directed downwards and forwards indicates the inferior border of the insertion of the gluteus medius muscle, and lower down a horizontal line, continued upwards in front of the trochanter, marks the upper limit of the vastus externus. Internally at its base, and ratlier behind the neck, is the troclianterio or digital fossa, \yhich gives attachment to the obturator and gemelli muscles. The posterior border of the great trochanter is prominent, and continued into a smooth elevation, the