472 THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. The systemic veins commence by small branches which receive the l3lood from the capillaries throughout the body, and nnite to form larger vessels, which end at last by pouring their contents into the right auricle of the heart through two large venous trunks, the supe- rior and inferior venag cavse. The blood which nourishes the sub- stance of the heart itself, is also returned by the coronary veins to the right auricle. The veins, however, which bring back the blood from the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pancreas, have an exceptional destination, not conveying the blood directly to the heart, but joining to form a single trunk—the portal vein, which ramifies after the manner of an artery in the substance of the liver, and carries the blood within it to the capillaries of that organ. From these the blood passes into the ulti- mate twigs of the hepatic veins, and is conveyed by these veins into the inferior vena cava. The veins thus passing to the liver constitute the ]iortal sysiem. The anastomoses of veins are much larger and more numerous than those of arteries. The veins of many parts of the body consist of a subcutaneous and a deep set, which have very frequent communications- with each other. In some parts of the body, chiefly in the limbs and at the surface, the veins are provided with valves, whilst in others no valves exist. The systemic veins are naturally divisible into two groups: firstly, those from which the blood is carried to the heart by the superior vena cava, viz., the veins of the head and neck and upper limbs, together with those of the spine and a part of the walls of the thorax and abdomen, with which may be associated also the veins of the heart; and secondly, those from which the blood is carried to the heart by the inferior vena cava, viz., the veins of the lower limbs, the lower part of the trunk, and the abdominal viscera. (For a general representation of the venous system, see fig. 240, at p. 344.) SUPERIOR VEISTA CAVA. The superior vena cava conveys to the heart the blood which is returned from the head, the neck, the upper limbs, and the thorax. It is formed by the union of the right and left brachio-cephalic veins. It extends from a little below the cartilage of the first rib on the right side of the sternum to the base of the heart, where it opens into the right auricle. Its course is slightly curved, the convexity of the curve being turned to the right side. It has no valves. At about an inch and a half above its termination, it is invested by the fibrous layer of the pericardium, the serous membrane being reflected over it. The upper vena cava lies immediately in front of the right pulmonary vessels, and between the right lung and the aorta, which partly overlap it. It receives several small veins from the pericardium and the medias- tinum ; and lastly, it is joined by the right azygos vein, immediately above the place where it becomes invested by the pericardium. "Varieties.—In several instances, the two innominate veins, which usually join to form the vena cava superior, have been seen to open separately into the right auricle. This peculiarity is explained by reference to the development of