12 VERTEBRAL COLUMN^. processes are smaller than the superior, fiat, nearly circular, looking- downwards and slightly inwards. The posterior arch presents in the middle line a rough elevation, the rudiment of a spinous process. The rest of the arch is thick and round, but at its junction with the lateral masses, it is hollowed out superiorly, so as to form a smooth transverse groove, in which lie the vertebral artery and first spinal (sub-occipital) nerve. It is sometimes converted into a foramen by a small arch of bone, and corresponds to the notches of the other vertebrae. The transverse processes are larger and project further outwards than those of the subjacent vertebrae. They are flattened from above down- wards, and "have the foramen for the vertebral artery at their roots. Their extremities are not bifid, but broad and rough. Tiie Second Vertebra.—Axis (vert, dentata) forms a pivot on which the head with the first vertebra rotates. The body is characterised by the presence of a large blunt or tooth- like process called odontoid (proc. dentatus). This consists of an enlarged part termed the head, and a lower part or neclc. It presents in front a smooth surface for articulation with the atlas, and behind a smooth groove to receive the transverse ligament. The lower surface Fig. 7.—The Axis Vertebra. (A. T.) i A, seen from above and behind ; B, seen from the right side, 1, the body ; 4, the vertebral ring or foramen ; 5, the spinous process, bifid and very hirge ; 6, the transverse process ; 7, the superior articular process ; 7', the inferior oblique articu- lar process ; 1* in A, is placed at the side of the odontoid process ; in B, in front of it, marking the smooth surface of articulation with the anterior arch of the atlas. of the body resembles that of the suc- ceeding vertebrae. Its anterior surface presents a low median vertical ridge, with a depression on each side. The superior articular surfaces placed like those of the atlas in front of the notch, lie close to the base of the odontoid process, partly on the body and partly on the arch of the vertebra. These surfaces look upwards and slightly outwards. The inferior articular processes are similar in form and position to those of the succeeding vertebrae. The spinovs 'process is very large, rough, deeply bifid, and grooved on its inferior surface. The lamince are very thick and strong. The transverse processes are short and scarcely grooved and bifurcated. The foramen for the vertebral artery is inclined obliquely downwards and inwards. Borsal Vertebrse.—These are twelve in number, and support the ribs. The body as seen from above is somewhat heart-shaped ; its antero- posterior and transverse diameters are nearly equal. It is specially characterised by the presence, at the place where it joins the arch, of depressed articular surfaces for the heads of ribs. In