SUPRA-IIYOID MUSCLES. 281 of this muscle has been describecT by Macalister, as passing superficial to the external pterygoid to be inserted into the tuberosity of the maxillary bone. Fig. 207.—View of the lower part OF THE Skull and Face, from be- hind, TO SHOW THE ATTACHMENTS OP THE Pterygoid and some other Muscles (modified from Bourgery). (A. T.) i a, placed above the basi-si^lienoid Lone, below which are seen the posterior nares and palate ; h, transverse section through the temporal bone ; c, roof of the mouth ; d, back of the head and neck of the lower jaw, above which are seen the synovial cavities of the joint divided by the interarticular fibro- cartilage ; e, placed below the symphysis menti; 1, on the left internal pterygoid muscle ; 1', on the right side, the lower part of the same muscle, of Avhich the middle portion has been removed to show the external pterygoid; 2, the lower thick portion of the external pterygoid ; 2', on the right side points to the upper smaller portion of the muscle, attached in part to the interarticular plate ; 3, small portions of the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus muscles cut short at their attachment to the genial tubercles ; -1, the attachment of the mylo-hyoid muscle cut short ; 5, the attachment at the side of the symphysis of the anterior belly of the digastric muscle ; 6, the masseter muscle descending to the angle of the jaw, Nerves.—The four muscles above described receive their motor nerves from one source, viz., the external [muscular branches of the fifth pair, which may be traced to the lesser or motor root of that nerve. These nerves are named from the muscles they respectively supply. There are usually two branches to the temporal, and one to each of the other muscles. Actions.—The masseter, temporal, and internal pterygoid muscles are elevators of the lower jaw, and generally act in concert, bringing the lower teeth forcibly into contact with the upper. The opposite movement of depressing the jaw, not being opposed by any resisting obstacle, requires less force, and is effected by muscles of much smaller size, the i^rincipal of which is the digastric muscle hereafter described. The external pterygoid muscle, having the great body of its fibres nearly horizontal, draws forwards the condyle, of the jaw, and, when the muscles of both sides act together, the lower jaw is protracted so as to make the lower incisor teeth project beyond the upper ; but their more usual mode of action is alternately on the two sides, as in the grinding movement of the molar teeth, in which the horizontal movements of the external pterygoids are associated with the elevating actions of the other muscles. The masseter and internal pterygoid muscles assist in protracting the jaw ; the temporal alone is a retractor. The two pterygoid muscles of one side, in advancing one condyle of the jaw, necessarily throw the teeth towards the opposite side. MUSCLES BETWEEN THE LOWER JAW AND THE HYOID BONE. The _ digastric muscle, extending from the temporal bone to the lower jaw, consists of two elongated muscular bellies united by an intervening rounded tendon. The posterior belly, longer than the anterior, arises from the digastric groove of the temporal bone, and is directed downwards, forwards, and inwards : the anterior is attached 10 a rough depression situated on the lower border of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis menti; it is less tapering than the posterior bell}^, and is directed downwards and backwards. The intervening