217 EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM. onwards, are joined together towards the middle or fore part of the second phalanx, and, having passed beyond this, are inserted into the last pha- lanx. On the index and little fingers the tendons are joined before their division, by the special extensor tendons of those digits. Fig. 177.—Deep Posterior Muscles op the Fig* 177. Forearm. (A. T.) ^ a, posterior surface of the humerus ; h, ole- cranon ; c, radius; d, lower part of the ulnai-, grooved for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris ; e, base of the second metacarpal bone ; 1, anconeus ; 2, flexor digitorum profundus, exposed by the re- moval of the aponeurotic tendon of 3, the flexor carpi ulnaris ; -r, supinator brevis ; 4, extensor carpi radialis brevier, and 5, the cut tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior ; e, their insertion into the second and third metacarpal bones ; 6, extensor ossis metacarpi ijollicis ; 6', its insertion into the first metacarpal bone ; 7, extensor primi internodii poUicis ; 7', its insertion into tli.e base of the first phalanx ; 8, extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; 8', its insertion into the base of the last phalanx; 9, extensor indicis ; 9', its junction with the tendon of the common extensor, which is cut short: in the metacarpal spaces the four dorsal interossei muscles are repi'esented, the tendons of the common extensor having been removed ; and at 10, the insertion of the second and third dorsal interossei, by a triangular expansion, into the tendon of the extensor communis, as well as the mode of insertion of that tendon into the middle and last phalanges, are shown. On the back of the hand the tendon of the ring-finger gives off two processes, one on each side, the lateral vincula, which pass obliquely downwards to join the tendons of the middle and little fingers: in consequence of this arrange- ment it follows that, if those two fingers be flexed, the tendon of the ring-finger is held downwards, and it becomes impos- sible to extend that finger by the action of the muscle. The tendon of the index- finger is only united to that of the middle finger by a loose transverse, semi- transparent band of fibres, and is free in its action. A synovial membrane invests the tendons of this muscle as they pass under the annular ligament. Varieties.—The varieties of the extensor communis digitornm resolve them- selves cliiefly into the following, viz., 1st, the occasional deficiency of one or more of the tendons of insertion, and, 2nd, more frequently an increase in their number. This last goes in some instances to the extent of doubling the tendon to each of the fingers, and even to tripling it to one or two of them. More frequently, however, the increase of number of the tendons is limited to the index or little finger alone. The muscular substance is also liable to be divided more deeply than usual into distinct portions for a part or the whole of its length.