28G MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. the hypoglossal nerve, the '\\niartonian duct, and the gustatory nerve. It covers the genio-glossus and the origui of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, together with the lingual artery and glosso-pharjugeal nerve. Var'tety.—Tritlceo-rilimun (Bochdalek). This is a small muscle which arises from the cartilage triticea in the posterior thyro-hyoid ligament, and passes upwards and forwards to enter the tongue along with the posterior part of the hyo-glossus. It always lies behind the lingual artery. The stylo-giossus, the shortest of the three muscles which spring from the styloid process, arises from that process not far from its point, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, to which in some cases the greater number of its fibres are attached by a thin aponeurosis : pass- ing forwards and slightly downwards, it is inserted along the side and under part of the tongue as far as the tip, its fibres decussating, and becoming blended with those of the hyo-glossus and palato-glossus nmscles. Relations.—This muscle lies deeply beneath the parotid gland, and is crossed ])y the gustatory nerve. Varieties.—The mylo-filossns (Wood) is a small accessory slip, which usually comes from the angle of the lower jaw, but has also been seen coming from the stylo-maxillary ligament. Occasionally the whole muscle arises from one of these points. A very rare origin has been noted by Gruber from the external meatus. Albinus and Bohmer have noted entire absence of the muscle, and various anatomists have seen it double. Nerves.—The muscles of this group are all supplied with branches from the hj'poglossal or motor linguss nerve. Actions.—The genio-glossus muscle has a complicated action, one part pro- truding and another retracting the tongue, while a third dej)resses the middle portion of the organ. Protrusion is effected by contraction of its posterior, and retraction by contraction of its anterior fibres, while the middle part, or nearly the whole muscle, acts as a depressor. In deglutition the stylo-glossus muscle raises the side of the tongue spasmodically backwards and upwards, while the hyo- glossus opposes that action. In other circumstances the first muscle assists in forming a hollow, and the second a convexity on the dorsum of the tongue. MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX AND SOFT PALATE. The Pharynx, the dilated upper part of the alimentary tube, extending from the base of the skull to the oesophagus, presents at the sides and back a continuous wall, in great part formed and supported by distinct muscles resting posteriorly on the vertebral column, and is open in front towards the nasal cavity, the mouth, and the larynx. The CONSTRICTORS OP THE PHARYNX are three thin expanded muscles which invest the pharyngeal wall, overlapping one another from below upwards, so that the lowest is most superficial. The inferior constrictor muscle arises from the side of the cricoid ■cartilage, and from the oblique lateral ridge and upper and lower borders of the thyroid cartilage, and curves backwards, expanding as it proceeds, and unites with its fellow in the middle line behind the pharynx. The direction of the inferior fibres is horizontal, concealing and over- lapping the commencement of the oesophagus; the rest ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity, and cover the lower part of the middle constrictor. Relations.—This muscle lies in contact posteriorly with the cervical vertebras and the longus colli muscle ; its outer surface is related to the side of the larynx,