RELATIONS OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. Fig. 292.—View of the Femoral Ves- 455 Fig. 292. the beating of the artery may be felt, and the circulation through the vessel may be most easily controlled by pressure. Below the upper third of the thigh it is crossed by the sartorius muscle, the upper and inner border of which forms the outer wall of the triangle, and which conceals the vessel in the remainder of its course. In the first part of its course the femoral artery is covered only by the skin and fascia lata, and by the crural sheath which invests both the artery and vein. In the lower part of its course it is deeply placed, being covered not only by the sartorius muscle, but by a dense stratum of fibrous struc- ture, which stretches across from the tendons of the long and great adductors to the vastus internus muscle, and encloses the space called Hiintefs canal, in which the vessels lie. The artery rests successively upon the folloAving parts. First, upon the psoas muscle, by which it is separated from the margin of the pelvis and the capsule of the hip-joint; next it is placed in front of the pec- tineus muscle, the deep femoral artery and vein being interposed ; afterwards, it lies upon the long adductor muscle ; and lastly-, upon the tendon of the great adductor, the femoral vein being placed between the tendon and the artery. At the lower part of its course, it has immediately on its outer side the vastus internus muscle, which inter- venes between it and the inner side of the femur. sels, WITH THEIR SMALLER SUPERFICIAL Branches in the Right Groin (from R. Quain). \ a, tlie integument of tlie abdomen ; h, the superficial abdominal fascia ; b', the liart descending on the spermatic cord ; c, c, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle ; c', the same near the external abdominal ring ; c", the inner pillar of the ring ; d, the iliac part of the fascia lata ; d', the pubic part; e, e, the sheath of the femoral vessels laid o-gen, the upper letter is immediately over the crural aperture ; e, sartoxius muscle partially exposed ; 1, femoral artery, having 2, the femoral vein to its inner side, and the septum of the sheath shown between the two vessels; 3, the principal saphenous vein ; 3', its anterior branches ; 4, the superficial circumflex iliac vein and arterial branches to the glands of the groin ; 5, the superficial epigastric vein ; 6, the external pudic arteries and veins ; 7 to 8, some of the lower inguinal glands receiving twigs from the vessels ; 9, internal, 10, middle, and 11, external cuta- neous nerves. At the groin the artery, after hav- ing passed over the margin of the pelvis, is placed slightly in front of or internal to the head of the femur ; and at its lower end, the vessel hes close to the inner side of the shaft of the bone; but in the intervening space, in consequence of the pro- jection of the neck and shaft of the femur outwards, while the artery holds a straight course, it is separated from the bone by a considerable interval.