240 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. inserted into the posterior surface of the tendon belonging to the superficial fibres. On either side of the origin of this part of the muscle there is a longitudinal band of the lateral surface of the femur from which no muscular fibres arise: this band varies somewhat in breadth in ditferent subjects, and it is also broader on the inner aspect of the shaft than on the outer. Relation.^.—On its anterior surface this muscular mass is in contact vritli the rectus f emoris and sartorius muscles and the anterior crural nerve. At its inner border run the femoral artery and vein, and the muscle is in contact v/ith the iliacus, adductor longus, and adductor magnus, being firmly united to the last two by the aponeurotic fibres which form Hunter's canal. On its outer surface lies the vastus externus. The subcrureus is a small band of muscular fibres, w^hich extends from the lower part of the anterior surface of the femur to the upper part of the sjaiovial membrane of the knee-joint, on which it ends in scattered fibres, liclatiom.—This little muscle is placed beneath the crureus muscle, and in some cases it is united with that muscular mass. It is not unfrequently double, or consists of two separate bundles. YarU'th'.s.— The parts of the quadriceps muscle are not liable to many anoma- lies. The rectus has been found with an additional origin from the anterior superior spine of the ilium : or, again, its acetabular origin may be wanting. The vasti muscles are sometimes bilaminar, as is seen also normally in many birds. Nerves.—The psoas muscle is supplied by small branches from the lumbar plexus. The iliacus, quadriceps extensor cruris and sartorius are supplied hj the anterior crural nerve, and the tensor vagina3 femoris by the superior gluteal nerve. Actions.—The Uio-p.soa.^ muscle, the flexor of the hip-joint, bends the thigh on the body, or the body on the thigh, according as either of these is the more fixed. It also produces considerable rotation outwards. The tr/i.sor nvjlna-. fcmori.'i assists the action of the other muscles by making tense the fascia lata. It aids the gluteus medius and minimus in rotating the limb inwards, but its action in this respect is exactly opposed by the upper fibres of the gluteus maximus, along with which it acts as an abductor of the limb, and is considered by Meyer (op. cit. p. 222) to be an extensor of the knee. The sartor'ni.'i produces the flexion of the hip and knee-joints, accompanied by abduction. It has been supposed to be the muscle principally concerned in pro- ducmg the posture assumed by the tailor in sitting, and hence its name; but Duchenne denies that this is its special action. The quadrtcci).^ crtcnsor femoris extends the knee-joint; but its action is not requisite for the maintenance of the erect attitude, the knee-joint remaining in complete extension without muscular aid while the foot is firmly j)lanted on the ground. This may be tested by tlie fact that the patella of a person standing with the knee extended will be found to lie quite loosely, but will become at once fixed when it is attempted to lift the foot. The rcctas fcniori.\ flexes the hip and extends the knee : it acts mainly from its anterior head of origin when the thigh is fully extended, and the posterior head is alone tense when the thigh is bent. INTERNAL FEMOEAL OR ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. The gracilis or adductor gracilis muscle, long and slender, arises by a thin tendon from the inner margin of the pubic bone, along the lower half of the symphysis and the upper part of the pubic arch. The lower tendon, which is at first round, is inserted by a flattened and