441 VESICAL ARTERIES. of deficient pudic arteries replace one or more of their branches, as will be more fully noticed under those arteries. Besides the superior and inferior vesical arteries, other smaller branches will be found to reach the bladder, and usually one slender vessel which is distributed particularly to the under surface of the vesiculse seminales. Fig. 282. Fig. 282.—View of the Viscera op the Male Pelvis prom the left side, SHOAYiNa THE Visceral and Pudio Arteries (from R. Quain). g a, the OS pubis divided a little to the left of the symphysis ; &, placed close to tlie upper part of the urinary bladder, upon which lies the vas deferens ; c, placed on the upper part of the rectum, near the left ureter ; c', at the junction of the middle and lower parts of the rectum points to the vesicula seminalis ; c", the anus ; d, the urethral bulb; e, the crus penis divided ; /, the short sacro-sciatic ligament attached to the spine of the ischium; 1, common iliac artery ; 2, internal iliac artery ; 3, gluteal artery cut short ; 4, common trunk of the sciatic and pudic arteries; 4', sciatic artery cut as it is passing out of the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5, placed on the divided surface of the ischium near the spine, points to the pudic artery as it is about to re-enter the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5', the superficial perineal branches of the pudic ; 5", the pudic artery, proceeding to give the artery of the bulb, and passing on to give 6, the artery of the crus penis and the dorsal artery of the penis ; 7, placed on the middle part of the rectum, points to the descending branches of the superior htemorrhoidal artery ; 8, the superior and middle vesical arteries ; 9, the inferior vesical artery, of considerable size in this instance, giving branches to the bladder, the vesicula seminalis, the rectum (middle hoemorrhoidal), and 9', to the prostate gland. Middle haemorrhoidal artery.—This branch is usually supplied to the rectum by the inferior vesical artery, but sometimes proceeds from other sources. It anastomoses with the branches of the other haemor- rhoidal arteries. The uterine artery is directed downwards from the anterior divi- sion of the internal iliac artery towards the neck of the uterus. Insinuating itself between the layers of the broad ligament, it passes upwards on the side of the uterus, pursuing an exceedingly tortuous course, and sends off numerous branches, which enter the substance of that organ.