TEE THORAX AS A WHOLE. 2!> usually fonned in connection with the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, or occasionally with the seventh cervical: in the latter case the addi- tional rib has usually a double attachment, viz., to the body and transverse pro- cess of the vertebra outside a vertebrarterial foramen (see fig. 21, 4, v, v, and S, CO. The costal cartilages unite the ribs to the sternura. Their "breadth diminishes gradually from the first to the last, whilst their length increases as far as the seventh, after which they become gradually shorter. Their line of direction yaries considerably. The first descends a little, the second is horizontal, and all the rest, except the last two, ascend more and more from the rib towards the sternum as they are situated lower down. The external or costal extremity, convex and uneven, is implanted into and united with the end of the corre- sponding rib. The internal extremities of the upper seven (except the first) are smaller than the external, somewhat pointed, and fit into the corresponding angular surfaces on the side of the sternum, with which they are articulated in synovial cavities. Each of the cartilages of the first three asternal ribs becomes slender tow^ards its extremity, and is attached to the lower border of that which is next above it. The last two are pointed and unattached. The first cartilage, which is directly united to the sternum without articular cavity, usually becomes more or less ossified in the adult male ; and the others likewise exhibit a considerable tendency to ossify in advanced life. This tendency is not so great in the female, in whom costal respiration is generally more extended than in the male. THE THOBAX AS A WHOLE. The bony thorax is of a somewhat conical shape, with convex walls. Fift-. 21. Fig. 24.—Front view of the Thorax, SHOWING THE StbRNUM CoSTAL CARTI- LAGES, Ribs, and Dorsal Vertebra. ^ 1, the manubrium, or first piece of the sternum ; 2, is close to the place of union of the first costal cartilage ; 3, the clavicular notch ; 4, the middle of the body of the sternum ; 5, the ensiform process ; 6, the groove on the lower border of the ribs ; 7, the vertebral end of the ribs ; 8, the neck; 9, tubercle ; 10, costal cartilage ; 12, the first rib ; 13, its tuberosity ; 14, the first dorsal vertebra; 15, the eleventh ; 16, the twelfth rib. Its upper opening is contracted, and bounded by the first dorsal vertebra, the first pair of ribs, and the manubrium of the sternum. Its inferior margin slopes downwards and backwards on each side from the ensiform cartilage to the twelfth rib. Its longitudinal axis is directed upwards and somewhat backwards. Its transverse diameter, at its widest part, greatly exceeds that from before backwards. The latter is shortened in the middle line by the projection of the vertebral column.