COUUSE OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 559 part of the spinal accessory nerve, and a second ganglion is formed upon it, the ganglion of^ the trunk of the nerve. Several communi- cations are at the same time established with the surrounding nerves. The upper ganglion, or ganglion of the root of the pneumo- gastric nerve, situated in the foramen jugulare, is of a greyish colour, nearly spherical, and about two lines in diameter; it has filaments connecting it with other nerves, viz., with the facial, the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, and the sympathetic. The lower ganglion, or ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, is placed about half an inch beyond the preceding. Occupying the trunk of the nerve outside the skull, it is of a flattened cylindrical form and reddish colour, and measures about ten lines in length and two in breadth. The ganglion does not include all the fibres of the nerve; the fasciculus, which is sent from the spinal accessory to join the vagus, is the part not involved in the ganglionic substance. It communicates with the hypoglossal, the spinal, and the sympathetic nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve descends in the neck, between and concealed by the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, and after- wards similarly between that vein and the common carotid artery, being enclosed along with them in the sheath of the vessels. As they enter the thorax, the nerves of the right and left side present some points of difference, of which the following are the most important. On the right side the nerve crosses over the first part of the right sub- clavian artery, at the root of the neck, and its recurrent laryngeal branch turns backwards and upwards round that vessel. The nerve then enters the thorax behind the right innominate vein, and descends on the side of the trachea to the back of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in the posterior pulmonary plexus. It emerges from this plexus in the form of two cords, which are directed to the oesophagus, and by their union and subdivision on it form, with similar branches of the left side, the oesophageal plexus. Near the lower part of the thorax, the oranches of the nerve, which have thus interchanged fibres with the nerve of the left side, are gathered again into a single trunk, which, descending on the back of the oesophagus, is spread out on the posterior or inferior surface of the stomach. On the left side the pneumo-gastric nerve, entering the thorax between the left carotid and subclavian arteries and behind the left innominate vein, lies further forwards than the right nerve, and crosses over the arch of the aorta, while its recurrent laryngeal branch turns up behind the arch. It then passes behind the root of the left lung, and, emerging from the posterior pulmonary plexus, is distributed like its fellow on the ■oesophagus. Inferiorly, it forms a single trunk in front of the oeso- phagus, and is spread out on the anterior or superior surface of the stomach. There are various circumstances in tlie distribution of the pneumo-gastric •nerves which at first sight appear anomalous, but which are explained by re- ference to the process of development. The recurrent direction of the inferior laryngeal branches in all probability arises from the extreme shortness or rather absence of the neck in the embryo at first, and from the branchial arterial arches having originally occupied a position at a higher level than the parts in which those branches are ultimately distributed, and having dragged them down as it