373 ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY. the posterior palatine canal, with the palatine nerve, and runs along the hard palate. In front it ends in a small vessel which ascends through the incisor foramen, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum. While descending in the canal, this ai-tery sends off twigs through the bone, which communicate on the soft palate with the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery. (d) The Vidian branch traverses the Vidian canal with the nerve of the same name ; it is distributed to the Eustachian tube and the top of the pharynx, and sends a small vessel into the tympanum. (c) The 'ptcryfio-palaiinc. a very small branch, passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal to reach the top of the pharynx, to which, and to the Eustachian tube and sphenoidal cells, it is distributed. (./■) The iiaml or fiphcno-palatine artery enters the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into two or three branches, some of which may ramify extensively over the spongy bones, while others supply the posterior ethmoidal cells and the antrum. One long branch, the aricrij of the .^(ptum, runs forwards along the septum nasi, ends in a small vessel which enters the incisor foramen, and inoscu- lates with the descending palatine artery. Varieties.—Origin.—The internal maxillary aitery is very constant in its place of origin. It has, however, been seen to arise from the facial. Coiifxc.—The artery often passes under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, crossing the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. It has likewise been observed to issue from under cover of the external pterygoid by piercing the middle of that muscle. "WTien the artery is placed beneath the muscle, it has been found lodged in a notch in the posterior margin of the external pterygoid plate, and bound down by fibrous structure. Branches.—The middle meningeal artery occasionally furnishes the lachrjanal artery (usually an offset of the ophthalmic), it has also been seen to give off the ophthalmic itself, and on the other hand the ophthalmic has been seen to give off the middle meningeal, peculiarities which may be looked on as resulting from the enlargement of an ordinary anastomosing branch. (Curnow, Joum. of Anat., vol. viii., p. 15.5. Krause. Blandin.) In a case in which the internal carotid artery was wanting, two tortuous branches from the internal maxillary entered the skull by the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale, to supply its place. (Quain, "On the Arteries," p. 13, fig. 8.) 8. Ascending Pharyngeal Artery.—This artery, long and slender, the smallest branch of the external carotid which has received a distinc- tive designation, arises most commonly from half an inch to an inch above the origin of the external carotid; and in its straight course upwards rests on the rectus capitis anticus, close to the surface of the pharynx, between it and the internal carotid artery, and is thus directed up towards the base of the skull. Branches.—These are very small, and may be divided into three sets, viz., those to the pharjmx ; a set directed outwards ; and meningeal branches. ((7) The pharijngeal branches pass inwards, for the most pai-t to the pharynx. One or two small and variable branches ramify in the middle and inferior con- strictor muscles. Higher up than these is a larger and more regular branch, which runs upon the upper constrictor, and sends small ramifications to the Eus- tachian tube, and to the soft palate and tonsil. The last mentioned, or palatine branch, is sometimes of considerable size, and supplies the soft palate, taking the place of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery, which in such cases is small. It divides into an anterior and a posterior twig, both of which anastomose with their fellows of the opposite side in the middle line. (/>) The external branches, small and irregular, are distributed to the rectus anticus muscle, the first ceiwical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, some of the cerebral nerves as they issue from the skull, and to IjTQphatic glands. Some