323 ACTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. If the vertebral column be fixed, these mnscles press up the diaphragm through the abdominal viscera, draw down the ribs, and contract the lower border of the thorax, and so contribute to expiration ; but if the vertebral column be not fixed, the thorax will be bent directly forwards, when the muscles of both sides act, or rotated to either side, should they act alternately. Fig. 227. Fig. 227.—Diagram op a transverse section of the Wall of the Abdomen, to SHOW THE CONNECTIONS OF THE LUMBAR AND AbDOMINAL APONEUROSIS, AND THE Sheath of the Rectus Muscle. (A. T.) \ A, at the level of the tbird lumbar vertebra ; B, the fore part, at a few inches above the iDubes. a, spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra ; 5, body ; 1, external oblique muscle ; 2, internal oblique ; 3, transversalis; 4, a dotted line to mark the position of the fascia lining the abdomen ; 5, 5, in A, the anterior and posterior parts of the sheath of the rectus, formed by the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splitting at its oxiter edge 2' ; 6, the rectus abdominis ; 7, innermost layer of the aponeurosis, covering in front the quadratus lumborum, and passing to the root of the transverse process : 8, the psoas magnus and parvus muscles ; 9, the erectores spin* muscles ; 9 +, the middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis passing to the extremity of the tranverse process ; 10, 10 +, the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, connected with the latissimus dorsi and serratus inferior : in A, at the sheath of the rectus, the aponeurosis of the external obhque is seen to unite in front with the sheath, while that of the transversalis is seen uniting with it behind : in B, the section is taken below the semilunar fold of Douglas, where all the tendons pass in front of the rectus as at 5' ; the + near this, and in a similar l^Iace in A, marks the middle line, and the place of the union of the several aponeuroses in the linea alba. If the thorax be fixed, the abdominal muscles may be made to act on the pelvis ; thus, in the action of climbing, the trunk and arms being elevated and fixed, the pelvis is draT\Ti upwards, either directly or to one side, as a preparatoiy •step to the elevation of the lower limbs. The attachment of the tendinous intersections of the rectus muscle to the Y 2