ARTEEIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 306 Varieties. — Origin.—The facial artery not unfrequently arises by a common trunk with the lingual. Occasionally it arises above its usual position, and then ■descends beneath the angle of the jaw to assume its ordinary course. She.—This artery varies much in size, and in the extent to which it is distri- buted. It has been observed, very rarely, however, to end as the submental, not reaching the side of the face ; in some cases it supplies the face only as high as the lower lip. The deficiency of the facial ai-tery is most frequently compen- sated for by an enlargement of the nasal branches of the ophthalmic at the inner side of the orbit; occasionally by branches from the transverse facial or internal maxillary arteries. Branclies.—The asce7idi)>f/ 2Mi'^tifiG ai-tery is in some instances transferred to the external carotid. This branch varies in size and the extent to which it reaches. Not unfrequently it is expended without furnishing any branch to the soft palate. When it is thus reduced in size, the pharyngeal artery takes its place on the soft palate. The ton-sillar branch is not unfrequently altogether wanting. The stihmental branch has been observed to take its rise from the lingual artery. On the other hand, the facial artery, instead of the lingual, has been found to furnish the branch which supplies the sublingual gland. 4. Occipital Artery.—The occipital artery, arising from the posterior part of the external carotid, usually opposite the facial or a little higher up, is directed upwards and backwards, beneath the pos- terior belly of the digastric muscle, to the interval between the trans- verse process of the atlas and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. From that point it turns horizontally backwards along the skull in the occipital groove of the temporal bone, internal to the mastoid process and the sterno-mastoid, splenius, digastric and trachelo-mastoid muscles, and resting on the superior oblique and complexus muscles. Lastly, changing its direction a second time, and piercing the cranial attach- ment of the trapezius, it ascends beneath the integument on the back of the head accompanied by the great occipital nerve, and divides into numerous branches upon the upper and back part of the cranium. While in the neck, the occipital artery crosses over the internal carotid artery, the vagus, and spinal accessory nerves, and the internal jugular vein ; and the hypoglossal nerve turns from behind over it at its origin. Branches.—(c?) Small m nsevlar o^s,et& to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and one of larger size to the sterno-mastoid. This last is so regular a branch that it#is known as the ,'!ferno-nia.'<tflid branch. (li) An (nirieular branch to the back part of the concha of the ear, and two or three other muscular branches to the splenius and trachelo-mastoid. (c) The meningeal branch. This runs up with the internal jugular vein, enters the skull through the foramen jugulare, and ramifies in the dura matey of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. (r/) The eerr 'ical branch, ram m eerrieali.'i2Jrince2)-'(. To the upper and back part of the neck the occipital artery furnishes a branch thus designated. Descending a short way, this vessel divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The former Tamifies beneath the splenius, sending ofi'sets through that muscle to the trape- zius ; while the deep branch passes beneath the complexus, and anastomoses with branches of the vertebral artery, and with the deep cervical artery. The size of this branch varies very much. (e) The st/jMrJicial or cranial branches. These pursue a tortuous com'se between the integument and the occipito-frontalis muscle ; and in proceeding upwards on the skull they separate into diverging branches, which communicate with the branches of the opposite artery, as well as with those of the posterior auricular artery, and of the temporal artery at the vertex and side of the skull. A small twig, the mmtoid branch, enters the skull through the mastoid foramen, and ramifies in the dura mater.