THE GEEAT SCIATIC NERVE. 615 trochanter major, points to the tendon of tlie obturator internus ; e, upper part of the femoral head of the biceps ; /, semitendinosus ; (j, semimembranosus; gastrocnemius ; popliteal artery; 1, placed on the gluteus minimus muscle, points to the superior gluteal nerves ; 2, inferior gluteal branches of the lesser sciatic ; 3, placed on the greater sacro-sciatic ligament, points to the jjudic nerve ; 3', its farther course; 4, inferior pudendal; 5, placed on the upper divided ]Dart of the semitendinosus and biceps, ijoints to tlie posterior middle cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; 6, great sciatic nerve, 6', 6', some of its muscular branches to the flexors ; 7, internal popliteal nerve ; 7', its muscular or sural branches ; 8, external poi^liteal nerve ; 8', its external cutaneous branch ; 9, communicating tibial; 9', communicating peroneal branch to the external saphenous nerve. In the female, the inferior pudendal branch is distributed to the external labium pudendi. I. The external cutaneous brandies, two or three in number, turn upwards in a retrograde course to the skin over the lower and outer part of the great gluteal muscle. In some instances one takes a different course, descending and ramify- ing in the integuments on the outer side of the thigh nearly to the middle. c. Of the loicer Iranclies some small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia of the thigh above the popliteal space. One of these, arising somewhat above the knee-joint, is prolonged over the popliteal region to the upper part of the leg. Of the terminal twigs, perforating the fascia lata opposite the lower part of the popliteal space, one accompanies the short saphenous vein beyond the middle of the leg, and others pass into the integument covering the inner and outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. Its terminal cutaneous branches communicate with the short saphenous nerve. Great Sciatic Herve. The great sciatic nerve (nervus ischiadicus major), the largest nerve in the body, supplies the muscles at the back of the thigh, and by its branches of continuation gives nerves to all the muscles below the knee and to the greater part of the integument of the leg and foot. The several joints of the lower limb receive filaments from it and its branches. This large nerve is continued from the lower end of the sacral plexus. It escapes from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis muscle, and reaches down below the middle of the thigh, where it separates into two large divisions, named the infernal and external2J0}iliteal nerves. At first it lies in the hollow between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, covered by the gluteus maximus and resting on the gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris muscles, in company with the small sciatic nerve and the sciatic artery, and receiving from that artery a branch which runs for some distance in its substance. Lower down it rests on the adductor magnus, and is covered behind by the long head of the biceps muscle. The bifurcation of the sciatic nerve may take place at any point intermediate between the sacral plexus and the lower part of the thigh ; and, occasionally, it is found to occur even within the pelvis, a portion of the pyriformis muscle being interposed between the two great divisions of the nerve. Branches of the trunk.—In its course downwards, the great sciatic nerve supplies offsets to some contiguous parts, viz., to tlie hip- joint, and to the muscles at the back of the thigh. a. The articular Iranelies are derived from the upper end of the nerve, and enter the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, on the posterior aspect. They some- times arise from the sacral plexus.