367 AUEICULAR AND TEMPORAL ARTERIES. Varieties.—6';vy/;w.—The occipital artery is occasionally derived from the internal carotid, and from the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid —an offset of the subclavian artery. Cour.sc.—The occipital artery sometimes passes outside the trachelo-mastoid instead of internal to it. The chief portion of the vessel was found, in one in- stance, to pass over the sterno-mastoid muscle, only a small artery being placed in the usual position. The artery has, in a few instances, been seen to turn, backwards below the transverse process of the atlas. JimncJirii.—The posterior auricular and the phar;yTigeal arteries sometimes take origin from the occipital. 5. Posterior Auricular Artery.—The posterior auricular artery, a small vessel, arises from the external carotid a little higher up than the occipital. It ascends under cover of the parotid gland, and resting on the styloid process of the temporal bone, reaches the angle formed by the cartilage of the ear with the mastoid process. It is crossed by the portio dura of the seventh nerve. Somewhat above the mastoid portion of the temporal bone it divides into two sets of branches, of which one set inclines forwards to anastomose with the posterior branch of the temporal artery, and the other backwards towards the occiput, on which it communicates with the occipital artery. Branches.—The following are the branches of this artery :— (a) Small branches to the parotid gland and the digastric muscle. (J)') The stulo-vuii<to'ul branch. This twig enters the foramen of the same name in the temporal bone ; on reaching the tympanum, it divides into delicate vessels, which pass, some to the mastoid cells, others to the labyrinth. One branch is constantly found in young bodies to form, with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery which enters the fissure of Glaser, a vascular circle around the auditory meatus, from which delicate offsets ramify upon the mem- brana tympani. This small tympanic branch sometimes arises from the occipital artery. (<:•) Auricular dranclies.—As it passes the back of the ear, the auricular artery gives one or two branches which supply the posterior surface of the concha, and turn over the margin, or perforate the substance of the auricle to gain the ante- rior surface. Varieties.—The posterior auricular artery is frequently very small, and has been seen to end in the stylo-mastoid branch. It is often a branch of the ■occipital. 6. Temporal Artery. — The temporal artery, one of the two branches into which the external carotid artery finally divides a little below the condyle of the lower jaw, continues upwards in the direction of the main trunk, whilst the other branch (the internal maxillary) curves forwards under cover of the jaw. The temporal artery is at first imbedded in the substance of the parotid gland, in the interval between the meatus of the ear and the condyle of the lower jaw. Thence it ascends over the root of the zygoma, against which it may readily be compressed. From this point onwards, it lies close beneath the skin, upon the temporal fascia; and, about two inches above the zygoma, divides into two branches, which again subdivide and ramify beneath the integument on the side and upper part of the head. Brandies.—Besides several small offsets to the parotid gland, some branches to the articulation of the lower jaw, and one or two to the masseter muscle, the temporal artery gives off the following branches : (a) The transverse artery of the face. This branch arises whilst the temporal