213 FASCIiE OF THE LEG. the femoral artery and vein, together with the internal saphenous nerve. lirlatioufi.—This muscle is in contact in front with the long and short adductors, the vastus internus, the obturator nerve, and the profunda artery, behind with, the hamstring muscles, giuteus maximus, and great sciatic nerve, internally with the gracilis muscle, superiorly with the obturator externus and quadratus femoris muscles, and along the line of attachment to the femur it is pierced by the femoral and perforating arteries. Varieties.—The adductor muscles are so closely related that their varieties may be conveniently considered together. The pvc-t'incxLs has been found double, as already stated. It has also been seen attached to the capsule of the hip-joint, or €ven inserted into it. The adductor longvs may be double, or it may extend as far as the knee with its tendon of insertion inseparable from that of the adductor magnus. The adductor hvevu is frequently found divided into two or three parts, or it may be incorporated with the adductor magnus. The adductor magnus varies in the degree of its segmentation. Its condylar part has been found quite distinct from the rest of the muscle. The upper transverse part is so frequently- divided from the rest by the superior profunda artery, that it is looked upon. laj some anatomists as a special muscle, being called the adductor mhiimns (Henle, Gtinther, Macalister). On the other hand, the muscle has been found undivided, and its upper part completely united to the quadratus femoris (Mac- alister). Nerves.—The adductor muscles as a whole are supplied by the obturator nerve, but the adductor magnus likewise receives a branch from the great sciatic, and the outer part of the pectineus sometimes has a branch from the anterior crui-al. Actions.—The gracilis acts as an adductor of the limb. The gracilis, semi- tendinosus, semimembranosus, and sartorius muscles, together with the popliteus, all rotate the leg inwards at the knee-joint; the latter muscle acting chiefly in. the flexed state of the knee. The pectineus is partly a flexor and partly an adductor. The adductores magnus, longus, and hrcvis, adduct the thigh, and, along with their opponents the gluteus medius and minimus, and with the gluteus maximus, balance the body on the femiu- in walking. The ilio-jjsoas and the adductor muscles, together with the pectineus, being all inserted at the back part of the femm-, tend to rotate the thigh outwards at th& same time that they produce their adducting and flexing actions. The advan- tage of this preponderance of rotators outwards over rotators inwards becomes apparent by reference to the movements which take place in walking, "When a step is taken, the pelvis is drawn forwards on that side on which the foot has been advanced, which involves a considerable rotation of the 2)eli'is hachvards at the other hip-joint, by the action of the muscles of the opposite limb. MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE LEG AND FOOT. ANTERIOR REGION. Fascia.—The aponeurosis of the leg is particularly dense in the upper and fore part, and is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the biceps externally, and the sartorius, gracilis, and semimembranosus internally. Behind, over the popliteal space, it consists of strong transverse fibres, which hind together the muscles of the outer and inner sides, and is perforated at the lower part of the space by tlie external saphenous vein ; lower down it becomes much thinner over the gastrocnemius muscle. The fascia is adherent to the periosteum R 2