MUSCLES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. 218 The extensor minimi digiti is a slender muscle which is placed between the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor carpi ulnaris, and arises by means of a thin tendon in common with the ex- tensor communis. The tendon in which it ends occupies a groove between the radius and ulna, passing through a special compartment in the annular hgament, and joins the fourth digital tendon of the common extensor. Vai'ieties.—This muscle, like tliat preceding, and tlie same occurs in the indi- cator muscle afterwards described, is subject to an increase in the number of its tendons of insertion, and in a large proportion of the cases the additional tendon is inserted into the ring-finger. The entire absence of the muscle has also been observed. In the case of the indicator, the additional tendon is most frequently inserted into the middle finger, constituting the extensor medii, which is sometimes separate in the whole length of the muscle. The extensor carpi ulnaris, the most internal of the muscles descending on the back of the forearm, arises from the external con- dylar eminence of the humerus by the common tendon and prolongation of that structure ; from the posterior border of the ulna, below the anconeus, for about the middle third ; and from the fascia of the fore- arm. The muscular fibres derived fi'om these sources incline somewhat inwards, and end in a tendon, which runs through a special groove in the carpal end of the ulna and a separate sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger on its posterior aspect. Varieties.—This muscle is frequently connected with the short abductor minimi digiti. It also sometimes sends a prolongation to the extensor tendons on the "back of the little finger, which has been named ulnaris quinti. The DEEP-SEATED MUSCLES on the back of the forearm are five in number, the supinator brevis, the three extensors of the thumb, and the extensor of the index-finger. The supinator radii Tbrevis muscle arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and from the annular ligament of the radius ; also from a rough depression below the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and from the outer border of that bone for two inches. The fibres of the muscle, derived from these points of attachment, as well as from a tendinous expansion on the surface, pass obliquely round the upper part of the radius, covering it closely except at the inner side, and are inserted into that bone for rather more than a third of its length, passing down to the upper margin of the insertion of the pronator teres. It is pierced by the posterior interosseous nerve. Varieties.—This muscle is subject to more or less division at the place of passage of the i^osterior interosseous nerve, and occasionally the insertion of an accessory slip takes place into the biceps tendon or tuberosity of the radius, A set of short fibres passing round the upper part of the radius has received the name of tensor ligamenti orbicularis anterior (W. Griiber, Cruveilhier). The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscle (abductor longus pollicis,—Alb.) arises from an elongated depression on the radial side of the posterior surface of the ulna below the origin of the supinator brevis, from a similar extent of surface of the radius below the insertion of the same muscle, and from the interosseous membrane between. Thence descending obliquely outwards, it ends in a tendon, which passes, in company with the extensor primi internodii pollicis, through