556 THE CEANIAL NERVES and a third to the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve. The last is not constant. There is sometimes likewise a filament from the digastric branch of the facial nerve, which, piercing the digastric muscle, joins the glosso-pharyngeal nerve be- low the petrous ganglion. The tympanic hranch (nerve of Jacobson) arises from the petrous ganglion, and is conducted to the tympanum by a special canal, the orifice of which is in the ridge of bone between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen. On the inner wall of the tympanum the nerve joins with a twig from the sympathetic forming a plexus (tympanic), and distributes filaments to the membrane lining the tym- panum and the Eustachian tube, as well as one to the fenestra rotunda, and another to the fenestra ovalis. From the tympanic nerve are given three connecting hrancJies, by which it communicates with other nerves ; and which occupy channels given off from the osseous canal through which the nerve enters the tympanum. One branch enters the carotid canal and joins with the sympathetic on the carotid artery. A second is iinited to the large superficial petrosal nerve, as this lies in the hiatus Fallopii. And the thu'd is directed upwards, beneath the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, towards the surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it becomes the small petrosal nerce ; and imder this name it is continued to the exterior of the skull through a small aperture in the sphenoid and temporal bones, to end in the otic ganglion. As this jietrosal nerve passes the gangliform enlargement of the facial, it has a connecting filament with that enlargement, which is by some considered its principal posterior termination. Jacobson descril^ed an interior or internal branch from the tympanic nerve to the spheno-palatine ganglion. Branches distributed in the neck.—The carotid hranclies course along the internal carotid artery, and unite with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric, and with branches of the sympathetic nerve. T\\.^ pharyiuieal hranches, three or four in number, unite opposite the middle constrictor of the pharynx with branches of the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic to form phary 11(1 eal pic.riis. Nerves to the mucous membrane of the pharynx perforate the muscles, and extend upwards to the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, and downwards nearly to the hyoid bone. The nmscxilar Ircmches are given to the stylo-pharyngeus and constrictor muscles. Tonsilitic 'brandies.—When the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is near the tonsil, some branches are distributed on that body in a kind of plexus (circulus tonsillaris). From these nerve offsets are sent to the soft palate and the isthmus of the fauces. Lingual hranclies.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides into two parts at the border of the tongue. One turns to the upper surface of the tongue, supplying the mucous membrane at its base ; the other perforates the muscular structure, and ends in the mucous membrane on the lateral part of the tongue. Some fila- ments enter the ch'cumvallate papillEe. "Variety. — In one case a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal supplied the mylo-hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric, the normal mylo- hyoid nerve being wanting. (Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. xiv., p. 436.) SuMMAEY.—The giosso-pharyngeal nerve distributes branches to the mncoiis membrane of the tongue, pharynx, tympanum, and Eustachian tube. The muscles supplied by it are some of those of the pharynx and base of the tongue. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., the lower maxillary division of the fifth, the facial, the pneumo-gastric (the trunk and branches of this nerve), and the sympathetic. II.—PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. The pneumo-gastric nerve (nervus vagus, par vagum) has the longest course of any of the cranial nerves. It extends through the neck and the cavity of the chest to the upper part of the abdomen ; and it