8 OSTEOLOGY. animal constituent or organised basis of the bone-tissue, which retains not only the general form, but also the minute structure of the original bone. This is a tough, flexible, and mainly fibrous substance, which is capable of being in great part resolved into gelatin by boiling. The ends of the bones, when jointed moveal)ly with others, are covered by a thin layer of dense permanent cartilage, called articular cartilage ; and the adjacent bones are united together by fibrous ligaments which may be considered as continuous with the periosteum covering the rest of the bones. In some instances distinct bones are directly united by means of ligament or cartilage without any joint-cavity intervening. Thus the osseous system as a whole may be considered to be enveloped by a fibrous covering. The bones are originally formed by a process termed ossification from soft substance. This process commences in the greater number of bones in cartilage ; in some it begins in fibrous tissue oi- membrane; and in all instances the farther growth of the bone substance takes place largely in the latter way. The deposit of bone begins generally at one spot, which is therefore called the original point or primary centre of ossifica- tion ; but there are sometimes several of these from the first. In most bones, after considerable advance in growth by extension from the original centre, ossification occurs at comparatively later periods in one or more separate points, forming secondary or tertiary centres ; and the portions of bones so formed, and remaining united to the main part for a time by intervening cartilage, are termed eppliyses. In many instances entire consolidation of the bone by the osseous union of the epiphyses does not take place till the full size has been attained, and this may be as late as the twenty-third or even the twenty-fifth year of life. In their outward form the bones present much diversity, but have been reduced by anatomists to the following classes:—1. Long or cylindrical, such as the chief bones of the liml3S. These consist of a body or shaft, cylindrical or prismatic in shape, and two extremities which are usually thicker than the shaft, and have smooth cartila- ginous surfaces for articulation with neighbouring bones. The shaft is generally hollow and filled with marrovv^, by which sufiicient size and strength are attained without undue increase of weight. 2. Tabular or flat bones, like the scapula, ilium, and the bones forming the roof and sides of the skull. 3. Short bones, which are more or less rounded or augular, as in the carpus and tarsus. 4. Irregular or mixed bones, mostly situated symmetrically across the median plane of the body, and often of a complex figure, such as the vertebras. In these differently shaped bones the osseous substance occurs in two foims, viz., the compact and the spongy. There is, however, no essential difference in structure or properties between these beyond that of thickness or thinness of the component material. The surfaces of bones present various eminences, depressions, and other marks, to designate which the following terms are in common use. Any marked bony prominence is called a 'pvoccsft or apopliyfils, the main part of the bone being sometimes named dlapliy.^is; while processes originally ossified from a distinct centre are during their separate condition named einpliyses. A slender, sharp, or pointed eminence is named a spine, or .pincnis process ; a blunt one a tuhcrdc ; a broad and rough one a tuhcrosity. The terms crest, line, and riclye are usually applied to a prominent border, or to an elevation running some way along the surface of a bone. A head (caput, capitulum, or capitellum) is a rounded process supported on a narrower part named the necli (cervix). The term condyle, some-