76 BONES OF THE HEAD. belonging- to the principal organs of the senses pass into then* sense capsules as follows, viz.: a, the olfactory through the cribriform plate developed in connection with the ethmo-turbinal; h, the optic through the inner part of the orbito-sphe- noid ; c, the auditory dii-ectly into the periotic ; d, the motor nerves of the eye- ball and its muscles, with the ophthalmic division of the trifacial, between the orbito-sphenoid and ali-sphenoid ; e, the second and third divisions of the trifacial through the inner part of the ali-sphenoid ; /, the facial by its descending division through the meatus internus, the so-called aqueduct of Eallopius and the stylo- mastoid foramen, and by the Vidian nerve, through the pteiygoid foramen : (j, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal-accessory nerves between the petrosal and exoccipital; and the hypoglossal nerve through the condylar fora- men of the exoccipital. The internal carotid artery, it may be further stated, enters the cranium by a canal separated from the foramen lacerum medium or space between the petrous, basi-occipital, and basi-sphenoid ; and the jugular vein issues by the fore part of the foramen lacerum jDosterius. A general review of the relations of the bones of the head leads to the conclu- sion that they may be looked upon as consisting mainly of three sets of parts, viz.: 1st, Basal or central parts, forming a series prolonged forwards in the line of the vertebral axis, and constituting a cranio-facial axis ; 2nd, Lateral superior arches, enclosing the brain or much-expanded medullary centre ; and ;{rd, Lateral inferior arches, enclosing, in part at least, the visceral cavity as represented by the nose, mouth, and pharynx. Together with the foregoing- are associated two other sets of elements, viz., 1st, the Sense capsules or cavities, which are intei-posed between other bones, and are connected with the lodgment of the higher organs of sense, the nose, eye, and ear ; and in the case of the nose, but more especially of the ear, the capsules are formed of special and complex bony apparatus ; and 2nd, Superadded or investing- bones, which are extraneous to the more fundamental osseous elements. Vertebrate theory of the skull.—It is mainly this relation of a superior neural arch and an inferior visceral arch to pai-ts of the skull which are central or basicranial, notwithstanding the great expansion of the one and the limited nature of the other, which has made it a favourite view of many anatomists to compare the plan of construction of the skull to that of a series of vertebrae, from the time when the idea of a vertebrate theory of the skull first occurred to Goethe in 1791, and was subsequently, though independently, conceived and worked out by Oken, and fii'st published by him in 1807. This theory, however, has undergone various modifications in the hands of the successive comparative anatomists by whom it has been supported; while others of distinction have refused to admit the validity of the grounds on which it has been framed. More recent researches, and especially those of W. K. Parker, have thrown much new light on the subject. The osseous segments which have hitherto been most frequently regarded by anatomists as representing central vertebral elements in the head correspond with the four basicranial bones distinguished in the preceding table, viz., the occipital, basisphenoid, presphenoid, and mesethmoid; the vomer being merely an investment of the last. The upper or neural arches connected respectively with these as centra are as follows, viz.. with the first or basioccipital, the exoccipital and supraoccipital surrounding the foramen magnum, and in which few refuse to recognise something of the vertebral character ; 2nd, with the basisphenoid, the alisphenoid and parietal, to which the temporal seems also to contribute a part ; 3rd, with the presphenoid, the orbito-sphenoid and frontal ; and 4th, with the mesethmoid, also the frontal and the nasal, if the latter bone be included in the number of superior arches.' The lower or visceral arches are less easily referred to their respective centra. But if, leaving aside the more precise determination of their morphological relations which may result from a full study of embryo- logy, we regard chiefly their form and connections after the bones have attained their osseous condition, the following elements may be enumerated in an order from before backwards, including the investing or superimposed bones along with those of the arches, viz. : 1st, the premaxillary ; 2nd, the pterygo-maxil- lary, including the palate; 3rd, the mandibular, including the cartilage of Meckel and the malleus ; ith. the upper or cerato-hyoid, iucluding the incus