INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 317 cord from tlie margin of the opening, are prolonged upon that structure as a delicate fascia, named inter columnar fascia. The intercolnmnar fibres may be regarded as the lowest of a series of tendinous fibres, which cross the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle somewhat obliquely over a considerable extent of its surface, and the strongest of which proceed from near the superior spine of the ilium and upper part of Poupart's ligament. Varieties.—This muscle chiefly varies in respect to the number of attachments to the ribs, the slips from the eighth and ninth ribs being- occasionally double, while those from the eleventh and twelfth are sometimes wanting-. Besides the usual slip to the pectoralis major, a slip is sometimes found to the serratus magnus. The muscle has also been found double, the deeper portion passing from the three lowest ribs to the crest of the ilium. (Macalister.) The obliquTis abdominis internus muscle, placed under cover of the external oblique, arises by fleshy fibres from the external half or two-thirds of the deep surface of Poupart's ligament, from the iliac crest for two-thirds of its length, and by some fibres from the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, in the angle between the crest of the ilium and the outer margin of the erector spina3 muscle. From those attachments the fibres, spreading somewhat, pass to be inserted as follows : the most posterior fibres pass upwards and forwards to the lower margins of the cartilages of the last four ribs, where they are inserted in the same plane with the internal intercostal muscles ; those arising further forwards from the crest of the ilium pass, the upper more obliquely, and the rest more horizontally, forwards to end in an aponeu- rosis in front of the abdomen; those from the front part of the crest extend horizontally inwards to the same aponeurosis ; while the fibres from Poupart's ligament, usually paler than the rest, arch downwards .and inwards over the spermatic cord, or the round ligament of the uterus, and end in tendinous fibres common to them and the lower part of the transversalis muscle, and hence known as the conjoined tendon of these muscles ; through the medium of this tendon they are ^attached to the front of the pubis, and for some distance along the pectineal line, behind and to the outside of Gimbernat's ligament. The spermatic cord and round hgament pass under the arched lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles through the internal or deep abdominal ring. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique may be regarded as the ex- panded tendon of the muscle continued forwards and inwards : it extends from the margin of the thorax to the pubis, and is wider at the upper than at the lower end. At the outer border of the rectus muscle this structure divides into two layers, one passing before, the other behind, that muscle ; and the two reunite at its inner border, so as to en- close it in a sheath. The anterior layer, as already mentioned, becomes inseparably united with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, •and the posterior layer is similarly incorporated with that of the trans- versalis. The upper border of the posterior lamina is attached to the ^margins of the seventh and eighth ribs, as well as to the ensiform cartilage. This division, however, of the a])oneurosis into layers stops :short a little above half way between the umbilicus and the pubis, the .aponeurosis below that level remaining undivided, and along with that of the transversalis muscle to which it is united, passing wholly in front