THE SPIRAL NEEVES. 576 SECOND CERVICAL NERVE. The anterior division of the second cervical nerve, beginning between the arches of the first two vertebras, is directed forwards between their transverse processes, being placed outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the intertransverse and other muscles fixed to those processes. In front of the intertransverse muscles, the nerve divides into an ascending part, which joins the first cervical nerve, and a descending part to the third. I^'ig- 354. Fig. 354. — Diagrammatic Outline of the Cer- vical AND Brachial Plexuses. (A. T.) ^ The nerves are separated from the spinal cord at their origin and are sup- posed to be viewed from before. CI, is placed op- posite the roots of the first cervical or sub-occipital nei-ve, and the Eoman num- bers in succession from II, to VIII, opposite the roots of the corresponding cer- vical nerves ; DI, is placed opposite to the roots of the first dorsal nerve, and II, and III, opposite the second and third nerves ; the origin of the posterior primary branch is shown in all the nerves : of these j) 2, indi- cates the great occipital from the second, and jp 8, the smallest occipital nerve from the third. Cervical plexus : 1, anterior primary- branch of the first cervical nerve and loop of union with the second nerve ; 2, lesser occipital nerve proceeding in this case from the second cervical nerve, more fre- quently from the second and thii'd; 3, great auricular nerve from the second and third ; 3', superficial cervical nerve from the third ; 3 n, communicating branches to the descendens noni from the second and thii-d ; 3 s, communicating to the spinal accessory from the second, third, and fourth ; 4, supraclavicular and supra-acromial descending nei-ves : the loops or arches of communication between the four upper cervical nerves, and between the fourth and fifth, are shown ; 4', the phrenic nerve springing from the fourth and fifth nerves. Brachial plexus: V, to YIII', and D', the five roots of the brachial plexus ; 5, the rhomboid nerve 50, suprascapular; 5", posterior thoracic ; 6, nerve to the subclavius muscle ; 7, 7, inner and outer anterior thoracic nerves ; 8, 8', 8", upper and lower sub- scapular nerves. In the larger nerves proceeding to the shoulder and arm from the plexus, those of the anterior division are represented of a lighter shade, those belonging to the posterior division darker; ec, external cutaneous or musculo-cutaneous ; m, median ; u, ulnar, ic, internal cutaneous ; w, nerve of Wrisberg ; r, musculo-spiral; c, circum- £ex; i, intercostal nerves ; i', lateral branch of the same ; ih, intercosto-humeral nerves.