PRONATOR RADII TERES. 209 than the anterior, is intimately connected with the strong septa between the several superficial muscles, and sends off transversely a thin mem- brane to separate the superficial from the deeper group of muscles. Approaching the back of the wrist, the transverse fibres increase in number and strength, and these, being stretched somewhat obliquely from the outer margin of the radius on one side to the cuneiform and pisiform bones and the palmar fascia on the other, constitute the ijosterior annular I'll lament of the carpus. This structure is attached not only to the points now indicated, but is likewise connected to the several longitu- dinal ridges on the posterior surface of the radius, and thus converts the intermediate grooves into fibro-osseous canals to lodge the tendons of the extensor muscles. There are six separate spaces so enclosed, and each is lined by a distinct synovial sac. The outermost space corresponds with the gi'oove on the outer side of the radius, and gives passage to the extensores ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis, the next three, placed on the back of the radius, give passage respectively to the two radial carpal extensors, the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, nnd the common extensor of the fingers, with the extensor indicis accompanying it; between the radius and ulna is the compart- ment for the extensor minimi digiti; and resting in the groove on the back of tlie ulna is that for the extensor carpi nlnaris. PRONATOR AND FLEXOR :\IUSCLES. The eight muscles on the front and inner part of the fore arm are disposed in two sets, five being superficial, the others more deeply seated. The SUPERFICIAL LAYER of musclcs Comprehends the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radial is, palmaris longus, flexor carpi nlnaris, and flexor digitornm sublimis. These five muscles are intimately united at their origin from the inner condyle, to which they are attached by a common tendon which gives fibres to each, and also sends septa between themx. The pronator radii teres muscle, the most external of the group, arises by two distinct heads; one, large and superficial, is derived from the upper part of the inner condylar ennnence of the humerus, and from the common tendon above mentioned; also from the fascia and the inter-muscular septum of the forearm. The second head, a thin fasci- culus deeply placed, comes from the inner margin of the coronoid pro- cess, and joins'the other at an acute angle. The fleshy belly thus formed proceeds outwards and downwards, and ends in a flat tendon which turns over the radius, and is inserted into a rough surface at the middle of the outer side of that bone. jRelattons.—The pronator teres is placed superficially in the greater part of its extent; but towards its insertion it is crossed by the radial artery and nei-\'e, and the supinator longus muscle. The ulnar border is in contact with the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus : the radial border forms the inner boundary of the angular space at the bend of the arm, in which are placed the brachial artery, the median nerv^e, and the tendon of the biceps muscle. The pronator teres covers the flexor sublimis digitorum ; the ulnar artery passes behind the whole muscle, and the median nerve between its two heads. Varieties.—The coronoid head is sometimes absent. In other cases the muscle is prolonged further than usual by a slip rising from the intermuscular septum above the inner condylar eminence of the humerus, or from the supracondylar process when that is present. This peculiarity is sometimes associated with a VOL. I. P