THE ULNAR ARTERY. 407 ULNAR ARTERY. Tlie ulnar artery, the larger of the two vessels into which the brachial divides, extends along the inner side of the fore-arm into the palm of the hand, where, joining a branch of the radial, opposite the muscles of the thumb, it forms the superficial palmar arch. In this course it inclines at first downwards and inwards, describing a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed inwards, and passes under cover of the superficial muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, viz., the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis, until it reaches the flexor carpi ulnaris near the junction of the upper with the middle third of the fore-arm ; at this point the artery comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, which was previously separated from it by a considerable interval, and changing its direction, descends vertically with the nerve towards the inner border of the palm of the hand. Descending along the radial border of the tendon of the flexor ulnaris muscle, the ulnar artery reaches the outer or radial side of the pisiform bone, where, still accompanied by the nerve, it passes over the cutaneous surface of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist into the palm of the hand. Its disposition in the hand will be separately described. In the first half of its course through the fore-arm, the artery is deep seated, being covered by the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus which have been already enumerated. About the middle of the fore-arm it is overlapped by the fleshy part of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; but below that, it becomes more superficial, being over- laid by the tendon of the muscle, and covered by the skin, the fascia of the fore-arm, and a thin layer of membrane by which the vessel is bound down to the muscle beneath. At first the ulnar artery lies on the insertion of the brachialis anticus into the coronoid process of the ulna ; then on the flexor profundus in the rest of the fore-arm, and lastly, on the annular ligament of the carpus. Below the point at which it emerges from under the flexor carpi ulnaris (or a little below the middle of the fore-arm), the tendon of that muscle is on its inner or ulnar side. Relation to Nerves.—The inedicm nerve lies immediately on the inner side of the ulnar artery at its origin, but being directed down the middle of the fore-arm it soon passes over the vessel, separated fi'om it at the point of crossing by the deep head of the pronator teres muscle. As the ulnar nerve descends behind the inner condyle of the humerus, it is removed from the ulnar artery by a considerable interval at the upper part of the fore-arm ; but as the vessel inclines inwards, it approaches the nerve, and is accompanied by it in the lower half of its course—the nerve lying close to its inner side. A small branch of the ulnar nerve descends upon the lower part of the vessel. Relation to Veins.^lLWo veins (ven^ comites) accompany the ulnar artery, and are frequently united hj branches crossing it. Branches.—The ulnar artery gives off in the fore-arm the anterior and posterior recurrent, the interosseous, and several muscular branches. At the wrist it gives off the anterior and posterior carpal branches. The anterior ulnar recurrent artery, a small branch, arches inwards and upwards from the upper part of the ulnar artery, in front of the inner condyle, running on the brachialis anticus muscle, and covered by