608 THE SACEAL AXD COCCYGEAL NERVES. SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the first four sacral nerves emerge from the spinal canal by the anterior sacral foramina, and the fifth passes out between the sacrum and coccyx. The first two sacral nerves are large, and of nearly equal size; the others diminish rapidly, and the fifth is exceedingly slender. Like the anterior divisions of the other spinal nerves, those of the sacral nerves communicate with the sympathetic : the communicating cords are very short, as the sympathetic ganglia are close to the inner margin of the foramina of the sacrum. The first three nerves and part of the fourth contribute to form the sacral plexus. The fifth has no share in the plexus,—it ends on the back of the coccyx. As the description of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves and of the coccygeal will occupy only a short space, these three nerves may be noticed first, before the other nerves and the numerous branches to whicli they give rise are described. THE FOURTH SACRAL NERVE. Only one part of the anterior division of this nerve joins the sacral plexus; the remainder, which is nearly half the nerve, supplies branches to the viscera and muscles of the pelvis, and sends downwards a con- necting filament to the fifth nerve. (a) The visceral branches of the fourth sacral nerve are directed forwards to the lower part of the Tbladder, and communicate freely with branches from the sympathetic nerve. Offsets are distributed to the neig-hbouring viscera, accord- ing to the sex. They will be described with the pelvic portion of the sympathetic nerve. The foregoing- branches are, in some instances, furnished by the third sacral nerve instead of the fourth, and not unfrequently from both of these ner^ 03. {b) Of the muscular branc?ics, one supplies the levator a>i!, piercing that muscle on the pelvic surface; another enters the coce//f/eus. whilst a third ends in the external sphincter muscle of the rectum. The last branch, after passing either through the coccygeus, or between it and the levator ani, reaches the perinajum, and is distributed likewise to the integuments between the anus and the coccyx. THE FIFTH SACRAL NERVE. The anterior branch of this, the lowest sacral nerve, comes forwards through the coccygeus muscle opposite the junction of the sacrum with the first coccygeal vertebra; it then descends upon the coccygeus nearly to the tip of the coccyx, where it turns backwards through the fibres of that muscle, and ends in the integument upon the posterior and lateral aspect of the bone. As soon as this nerve appears in front of the bone (in the pelvis) it is joined by the descending filament from the fourth nerve, and lower down by the small anterior division of the coccygeal nerve. It supplies small filaments to the coccygeus muscle. THE COCCYGEAL NERVE. The anterior branch of the coccygeal, or, as it is sometimes named, the sixth sacral nerve, is a very small filament. It escapes from the