41 SPHENOID BONE. separated from it by a thin lamella, the processus cocliJeariformis, is a small passage which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. The posterior horder articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and bounds the foramen lacerum posterius. Small Foramina.—Tlie opening' of the nqnccluctm vcstlhuli is a naiTOw fissure, covered by a depressed scale of bone, and situated on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, about three lines behind the internal auditory meatus ; that of the aqueductm eoclilece is a small foramen, beginning in a three-sided wider depression in the posterior margin, directly below the internal auditory meatus. In the plate between the jugular fossa and the carotid canal is the foramen by which the nerve of Jacobson passes to the tympanum. In the ascending part of the carotid canal is the minute foramen for the tympanic branch of the carotid plexus. In the jugnlar fossa are a groove and foramen for the amicular branch of the vagus nerve ; and parallel to the hiatus Fallopii, close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, are a groove and foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. The description of the small bones of the ear with the tympanum and internal ear, will be foimd in the chapter on the Organs of the Senses. THE SPHENOID BONE, The sphenoid, or wedge-shaped bone, is j)laced across the base of the skull, near its middle. It enters into the formation of the cavity of the cranium, the orbits, and the posterior nares. It is of very irregular shape, and consists of a central part or lody, a pair of lateral expan- Fig. 36. Fig. 36.—The Sphenoid Bone prom above and behind. (A. T.) § 1, the basilar surface, sawn separate from the occipital bone ; 2, Dorsum selloe, or inclined surface of the body terminating superiorly in the two posterior cnnoid processes ; 3, is placed on the olivary eminence or process, and between it and 2 is the sella turcica, or pituitary fossa ; in front of 3 is the transverse groove of the optic commissure ; 4, the •side of the body with the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery and cavernous sinus ; 5, the lesser wing ; x, the anterior clinoid process ; 6, the ethmoid spine ; 7, the cerebral surface of the greater wing ; 8, the upper angle of the greater wing, which articulates with the parietal bone ; 9, the spinous process ; 10, the external, and 11, the internal pterygoid process ; 11, is placed opposite the hamular process and groove for the tendon of the tensor palati muscle ; 12, the optic foramen, 13, the sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum orLitale ; 14, the foramen rotuudum ; 15, the foramen ovale ; 16, the foramen spinosum ; 17, is placed above the posterior opening of the pterygoid or Vidian foramen.