THE SUPEEIOR VENA CAVA. 474 the union of the subclavian with the internal jugular vein at each side, commence opposite the inner ends of the clavicles, and terminate a little below the cartilage of the first rib on the right side, where, by uniting, they form the upper vena cava. The right vein is very .short, and nearly vertical in its direction; it is in apposition, on the right side, with the pleura and the upper part of the right lung. The vein of the left side, about three times longer than the right vein, pursues a course from left to right, at the same time inclining some- what downwards : it crosses behind the upper part of the first bone of the sternum, separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the thymus gland or its remains ; it lies in front of the three primary branches given ofp from the arch of the aorta, and rests upon the highest part of the arch. The innominate veins have no valves. Lateral tributaries.—(a) The inferior thyroid veins emerge from a venous plexus situated on the thyroid body—those of opposite sides communicating by small branches across the trachea. The vein, of the left side descends in front of the trachea, behind the sterno- thyroid muscles, and ends in the left brachio-cephalic or innominate vein : that of the right side inclines outwards in some degree, and opens into the corresponding brachio-cephalic vein, or into the angle of union between it and the vessel of the opposite side. In their course these veins receive inferior laryngeal and tracheal branches. (d) The internal mammary veins follow exactly the course of the arteries of the same name—two veins accompanying each of the arte- ries. The two companion veins of the artery arise by small branches, derived from the fore part of the walls of the abdomen, where they anastomose with the epigastric veins ; from thence proceeding upwards between the cartilages of the ribs and the pleura, they receive the anterior intercostal veins which correspond with the branches of the internal mammary artery, together with some small dki'pliragmatic, thipnic, and mediastinal veins, and these finally uniting into a single trunk, each vein terminates in the brachio-cephalic of its own side. (c.) The superior intercostal veins.—The right superior intercostal vein receives the blood from the first two or three spaces, communi- cating with the vessel in the space next below, and opens into the in- nominate trunk of the same side, or into the vena cava. Frequently the veins at the right side, corresponding with the superior intercostal artery, pass downwards separately, to open into the azygos vein, as that vessel arches forwards to join the upper vena cava : the separate vein thus formed is inferior in size to that on the left side. The left superior intercostal vein varies in length in different persons, being small when the azygos minor is large, and vice versa. Usually it receives the veins from the three or four upper spaces, and is then directed forwards over the left side of the spinal column and the aorta to open into the left in- nominate vein. It receives in its course the left bronchial vein. The left vein is sometimes directed downwards to join an azygos vein on its own side. A small fibrous cord is frequently found joining- tlie trunk of the superior intercostal vein with the coronary sinus of the heart. This is the remains of the left duct of Cuvier, a foetal structure to be afterwards described.