MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 200 the upper arm. It takes origin in an extended line which may be divided into three portions, viz., an anterior from the front of the external third of the clavicle, a middle from the outer edge and point of the acromion, and a posterior fi'om the lower border of the spine of the scapula as far back as the triangular surface at its inner end. The fasciculi from these several parts converge as they descend, and are inserted by a strong thick tendon into the deltoid impression, a triangular rough surface above the middle of the humerus, on its outer side. The tliree parts, composing the deltoid muscle, differ somewhat in the disposi- tion of the muscular fasciculi and the tendons. The anterior and posterior portions are composed of long fibres which, arising directly from the clavicle and spine of the scapula, are inserted into the outer surface of the marginal parts of the inferior tendon. In the acromial portion, while some of the muscular fibres spring directly from the bone, yet most of them arise in a penniform manner from the sides of three or, more frequently, four tendinous septa, which pass downwards into the substance of the muscle. These oblique fibres, running nearly parallel to each other, are inserted in a similar manner into the sides of tw^o, or more frequently three, septa which pass from below upwards and alternate with the upper septa. The oblique fibres, from the outside of the first and foui'th upper septa are inserted into the marginal parts of the main tendon. There are besides wedge-shaped bundles of muscular fibres, rising directly from the acromion in the intervals between the penniform bundles, which, are inserted into the tips of the lower tendinous septa, and others which springing from the ends of the upper tendinous septa, are directly inserted into the humerus between the lower septa. The main tendon of insertion spreads from below upwards for some distance on the deep surface of the muscle. Jlelations.—At the posterior border of the deltoid, the aponeurosis covering the infraspinatus muscle divides into two thin layers, of which one covers the muscle superficially, and the other lines its deep surface. At its anterior border this muscle is in contact wath the pectoralis major, the cephalic vein lying between them. In immediate contact with the deep surface is the large bursa, which separates this muscle and the acromion from the shoulder joint and the muscles supportmg it. The deltoid muscle covers the origins of the biceps, coraco- brachialis, and long head of the triceps, and the insertions of the subscapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor muscles, as also the circumflex vessels and nerve. Varieties.—The deltoid muscle is not subject to great varieties. One of the commonest is a greater degree of subdivision of its parts than usual. Another is the continuation into it of fibres from the trapezius, as in animals wanting the clavicle. Occasionally its anterior part is closely united with the great pectoral muscle. Its insertion varies sometimes in extent. A remarkable prolongation of its tendon on the radial border of the forearm, as far as the insertion of the supinator longus, seems to repeat the tensor plicae alaris of the bird. (Macalister). The supraspinatus muscle arises from the whole of the supraspinous fossa of the scapula to within a short distance of the neck of the bone, and from an aponeurosis by which it is covered. Its fibres converge beneath the acromion to a tendon, which adheres to the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and to the tendon of the infraspinatus muscle, and is inserted into the upper of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The infoaspinatus muscle is of a triangular form, and occupies the greater part of the iufraspinous fossa. It arises fronv the fascia covering it, from the under surface of the spine, and from the dorsal surface of the scapula in the fossa, except those parts at the lower angle and along the external border, to which the teres muscles are attached. The fibres converge to a tendon, which, concealed at first within the substance of the muscle, is inserted into the middle facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus.