190 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIME. Fie. 164. Fig. 164. — ScPERFiciAL View of THE JMusCLES OE THE TrUNK, Shoulder and Hip. (After Bour- gery.) (A. T.) i 0, occipital protuberance ; C, transverse process of tlie atlas ; D, first dorsal vertebra ; L, first lum- bar vertebra ; S, first piece of the sacrum ; Co, fii-st piece of the coccyx ; a, acromion; b, base of the scapula ; i, crest of' the ilium ; 1, upper and back part of the sterno- Biastoid muscle; 2, splenius, levator anguli scapulse, and other deep muscles ; 3, 3, upper and lower ends of the line of origin of the trapezius muscle; 3', triangular tendon attached to the inner end of the spine of th e scapula ; +, half of the oval tendon belonging to the two trapezius muscles in the lower cervical and upper dorsal region ; 4, 4, latissimus dorsi ; 4', 4", line along whicli the latissimus dorsi takes origin from the lumbar fascia ; 5, infraspinatus ; 6, teres minor ; 7, teres major ; 8, deltoid ; 9, ex- ternal oblique muscle of the ab- domen ; 10, gluteus medius, covered ])y the aponeurosis of the fascia lata ; 11, 11, line of origin of the gluteus maximus from the posterior part of ilium to the coccyx ; 11', its insertion into the fascia lata over the trochanter major; 11", a part of its insertion into the femur ; 12, biceps ; 13, semitendinosus ; 14, adductor magmis ; 15, gracilis. floor of the bicipital grooye of the humerus, a little higher than the insertion of the teres major. From this twisting of the muscle upon itself, the anterior surface of the tendon is continuous with the posterior surface of the rest of the muscle. Ilelatio)U. — The latissimus dorsi is subcutaneous, except at its origin from the dorsal vertebras, where it is covered by the trapezius, and at its insertion, where it dips into the axilla, Ifc rests on part of the rhom- boideus major and infraspina- tus, on the teres major, serratus posticus inferior, vertebral apo- heurosis, external intercostal muscles, and the posterior bor- ders of the external and internal oblique muscles.