THE THIRD PAIR. 629 VOL. I. M M Surface attachment.—The nerve is attached to the inner surface of the crus cerebri in the interpeduncular space, immediately in front of the pons. Each nerve consists of a number of funiculi which arise in an oblique line from the surface. Deep origin.—The fibres, diverging, pass backwards through the substance of the crus, some through the locus niger, some through the tegmental nucleus, to reach the grey matter in which the majority of them end. This is a collection of large multipolar nerve-cells, lying on each side close to the middle line, beneath the thick layer of grey matter which forms the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius, and below the corpora quadrigemina. The anterior portion of the nucleus, beneath the anterior of the corpora quadrigemina, is that in which the fibres of the third nerve end, the posterior portion giving origin to some of the fibres of the fourth nerve. A few fibres are said to run downwards in the pons, among its longi- tudinal fibres. Fig. 333.—View from above OF THE Uppermost Nerves OP THE Orbit, the Gtas- SERIAN GrANGLION, &C. (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). | I, the olfactory tract passing forwards into tlie bulb ; II, the commissure of the optic nerves; III, the oculo-motor ; IV, the trochlear nerve ; V, the greater root of the fifth nerve, a small portion of the lesser root is seen below it ; VI, the sixth nerve; VII, facial; VIII, audi- tory ; IX, glosso-pharyngeal ; X, pneumo-gastric ; XI, spinal accessory ; XII, hypoglossal ; 1, the Grasserian ganglion; 2, ophthalmic nerve; 3, lachryma] branch ; 4, frontal; 5, external frontal or supraorbital ; 6, internal frontal ; 7, supra- trochlear branch ; 8, nasal nerve ; 9, infratrochlear branch ; 10, internal nasal passing through the internal orbital foramen ; 11, anterior deep temporal proceeding from the buccal nerve ; 12, middle deep temporal; 13, posterior deep temporal arising from the masseteric ; 14, origin of the temporo-auricular Fig. 333. 15, great superficial petrosal nerve. Course and distribution.—Cylindrical and firm, like the other motor nerves, the third nerve, quitting the investment of the arachnoid membrane, pierces the inner layer of the dura mater close to the poste- rior clinoid process, and proceeds towards the sphenoidal fissure, lying in the external fibrous boundary of the cavernous sinus. The third nerve divides near the orbit into two parts, which are con- tinued into that cavity between the heads of the external rectus muscle,