THE ABSOEBENT VESSELS. 516 The superficial lymphatics of the upper limb are usually de- scribed as forming two divisions corresponding with the superficial veins on the outer and inner borders. On the front of the limb they arise from an arch formed in the palm of the hand by the union of two lymphatic vessels proceeding from each finger: becoming more nu- merous in the forearm, they are found thickly set over its surface^ whence they pass upwards in the arm ; the inner vessels in a straight direction, and those placed further outwards inclining gradually in- wards over the biceps muscle to reach the axillary glands. On the back of the hand also two lymphatics proceed from each finger; and from the copious network on the back of the forearm vessels pass over the radial margin, and in greater number round the ulnar side to join those in front. The lymphatic vessels in the front of the upper arm are also joined by others which pass round each side of the limb, and by some which descend from the shoulder. The deep lymphatics of the upper limb correspond with the deep blood-vessels. In the forearm they consist, therefore, of three sets, associated respectively with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries and veins. In their progress upwards some of them have com- munication near the wrist with the superficial lymphatics ; and some of them enter the glands which lie by the side of the brachial artery near the bend of the elbow. They all terminate in the glands of the axilla. The superficial lymphatics of the chest consist of branches running under cover of the pectoral muscles, and of subcutaneous vessels, twigs, of which are continued from those on the abdominal wall as low as the umbilicus, decussating with the vessels which converge to the inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatics of the back converge to the axillary glands from its various regions; from the neck over the surface of the trapezius muscle, from the posterior part of the deltoid, and from the whole dorsal and lumbar regions as low as the crest of the ilium ; the branches decussating inferiorly with vessels leading to the inguinal glands, and likewise crossing the middle line so as to decussate with branches of the opposite side. (Mascagni, Tab. xxii., xxiii., xxiv.) LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD ANI> NECK. The lymphatic glands found on different parts of the head and face are few and small: those in the neck, on the contrary, are comparatively very large and numerous. The cervical glands are placed chiefly on the sides of the neck, and are divisible into a superficial and a deep series. Of the former, some lie beneath the base of the inferior maxillary bone ; the remainder, arranged along the course of the external jugular vein, exist in greatest number in the angular space behind the lower end of the sterno-mastoid muscle, where that vein enters the subclavian vein : at this point the cervical glands approach and are connected with the glands of the axilla. The deep cervical glands are placed along the carotid artery and internal jugular vein, extending downwards on the sheath of those vessels as far as the thorax. The lymphatic vessels of the cranium and face, together with those of the tongue, pharynx, larynx and other parts of the neck, pass into the