70 BONES OF THE HEAD. to be seen, and the styloid process cartilaginous. After bii-th the external auditory meatus is gradually formed, suiJeriorly by the arching outwards of the united squamous and petro-mastoid portions, and inferiorly and laterally by the development of the tijmpanlc jylate, a lamina developed from the outer surface of the tympanic ring, and which becomes united behind with the petro-mastoid, but is separated in front by the fissm-e of Glaser from the squamosal. The mastoid process is developed about the second year, but air-cells are not formed till near puberty. About puberty also ossification begins in the styloid process, but osseous union with the temporal only takes place in adult life. The sphenoid bone presents in infancy traces of a natural division into a posterior 'po><.ti<plicnoUl part, to which the sella turcica and great wings belong, and an anterior or pre^phemid part, to which belong the body in front of the olivary process and the small wings,—a division which is found in many animals complete and persistent through life. The first osseous nuclei of the postsphe- noid division appear about the eighth week in the great wings, one on each side, between the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale, and spread thence outwards into the wing and downwards into the external pterygoid process. About the same time also two granules appear in the postsphenoid part of the body, placed side by side in the sella turcica ; these unite about the fourth month, and after their union two others appear, from which are formed the lingute, inside which are placed the carotid grooves. The internal pterygoid processes, corresponding to the pterygoid bones of animals, are ossified from distinct nuclei, which appear in the fourth month ; they unite with the external pterygoid processes in the fifth or sixth month. Fig. 60. s Fig. 60.—OssiFicATiox OP THE SpHENOiD BoNE (E. Quain). A, sphenoid bone from a foetus of three months, seen from above ; 1, 1', the greater •wings ossified ; 2, 2', the lesser wings, in which the ossification has encircled the optic foramen, and a small suture is distinguishable at its posterior and inner side ; 3, two round granules of bones in the body below the sella turcica, the rest being cartilaginous. B, copied from Meckel (Archiv, vol. i. tab. vi. fig. 23), and stated to be from a foetus of six months ; 2*, additional nuclei for the lesser wings ; 5, separate lateral processes of the body : the other indications are the same as in A. C, sketch of the back part of the bone shown in A ; 4, the internal pterygoid processes still separate. D, the sphenoid at the usual period of birth. The great Avings are still separate. The anterior sphenoid is now joined to the body, and the internal pterygoid processes (not seen in the figure) are united to the external. The great wings are united to the body in the first year. In the presphenoid division the first pair of nuclei appear in the eighth or ninth week outside the optic foramina, and extend by their growth into the small wings : another pair of granules appear on the inner sides of the foramina, and the presphenoid por-