FRONTAL BONE. 3-5 longifcudiual sinus ; and a depression at the posterior inferior angle forms a small part of the groove of the lateral sinus. Near the upper Fig. 30.—The Parietal Bone Fig. 30. FKOM THE Inside. (A.T.) t, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, & 8, indicate tlie same parts as in the last figure : between 1 & 2 the half groove of the su- perior longitudinal sinus ; 3', groove of the lateral sinus ; 7, the ramified grooves of the meningeal vessels ; above x this groove is converted into a ■canal; 9, the irregular pits for the glandulse Pacchionii. border there are in most skulls, but particularly in those of old persons, small irregular pits, fovem glandulares, lodg- ing the so-named gland- alte Pacchionii. Borders.—The ante- rior, superior, and pos- terior borders are deeply serrated. The inferior border presents in the greater part of its extent a sharp or squamous edge, with a slightly fluted surface directed outwards and overlapped at its anterior extremity by the great wing of the sphenoid, and behind that by the squamous part of the temporal bone ; its posterior part is serrated, and articu- lates with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior border is slightly overlapped by the frontal bone above, but overlaps the •edge of that bone inferiorly. THE FRONTAL BONE. The frontal bone, arching upwards and l)ackwards from above the orbits, forms the fore part of the cranium. It likewise presents inferiorly two thin horizontal laminae, the orbital plates, which form the roofs of the orbits and are separated by a mesial excavation, the incisw^a etJimoidalis. The frontal is articulated with twelve bones, viz., posteriorly w^ith the parietals and sphenoid; outside the orbits with the malars ; and between the orbits, from before backwards, ,with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones. Anterior surface.—The part forming the greatest convexity of the forehead on each side is called the frontal eminence. It is separated l)y a slight depression below from the superciliarij ridge, a curved elevation of varying prominence immediately above the margin of the orbit. Between the superciliary ridges is the surface g^Wq^. glaMJa. The margin of the orbit, the orhital arch, is most defined towards its outer part ; it presents towards its inner third the supraordifal nofrh, some- times converted into a foramen, which transmits the supraorbital nerve and artery. The extremities of the orbital arch point downwards, and