BASE OF THE SKULL. Gl foramina open, viz., on the posterior wall, the foramen rotnnrlum, the Vidian canal, and, between the sphenoidal process of the palate bone and the root of the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-palatine canal; on the inner wall, the spheno-palatine foramen formed by the palate bone and a small part of the sphenoidal spongy bone, and opening into the nasal cavity; and inferiorly, the posterior palatine canal, which leads down to the palate between the palatal and superior maxillary bones. The external base of the skull, excluding the lower jaw, is divisible into three parts, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior division consists of the palate and the alveolar arch. It is traversed longitudinally by a mesial suture, and transversely by that Fig. 52.—External Basis OF THE Skull shown IN Figure 49. (A.T.) h, Fis. 52. 1, palatine plate of the superior maxillary bone near the mesial suture ; 2, palatine plate of the palate bone below the palato- maxillary suture ; 3, the anterior palatine foramen ; 4, is placed outside the posterior palatine foramen, inside the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, and in front of the smaller posterior palatine foramina, in the pyramidal process of the palate bone ; 5, inner surface of the external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone ; 6, is placed within the posterior open- ing of the left nasal fossa on the internal pterygoid plate ; 7, the vomer ; x , the posterior opening of the pterygo-palatine canal in front of the foramen la- ceriim anterius; 8, spheno- maxillary fissure leading into the orbit ; 9, foramen spinosum ; 10, foramen ovale ; 11, placed on the apex of the petrous bone, between the foramen lace- rum anterius and the in- ferior opening of the carotid canal ; 12, the jugular fossa of the temporal bone, and foramen lacerum posterius ; 13, on the ai-ticular eminence of the inner root of the zygoma ; 14, meatus auditorius externus ; 15, glenoid fossa in front of the fissure of Glaser ; 16, tympanic plate or posterior part of the glenoid fossa, close to the styloid process, below which is seen the stylo-mastoid fora- men ; 17, mastoid process, and to its inside the digastric and occipital grooves ; ] 8, basilar process of the occipital bone, and in front the mark of the still incomplete union ■with the body of the sphenoid bone ; 19, condyle of the occipital bone ; 20, is placed in the foramen magnum, and points to the lower opening of the anterior condylar foramen ; 21, posterior condylar foramen ; 22, jugular process of the occipital bone, and to its inner side the jugular notch ; 23, external occipital spine running down from the protuberance ; 24, superior curved line of the occipital bone ; 25, inferior curved line ; 26, groove and ridge of insertion of obliquus capitis superior muscle.