458 AETEEIES OF THE LOAYER LIMB. and the long adductor muscle are interposed between it and the femoral trunk. The named branches of the deep femoral arterj^ are the external and the internal circumflex, and the perforating arteries. 1. The external circumflex artery, a branch of considerable size, arises from the outer side of the profunda near its origin, and passing out- wards for a short distance beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, and through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, divides into three sets of branches. (a) Transverse brandies pass outwards over the cnireus muscle, pierce the vastus externus, so as to get bet-vveen it and the femur, just below the great tro- chanter, and reach the back part of the thigh, where they anastomose with the internal circumflex and the perforating branches of the deep femoral, and with the gluteal and sciatic branches of the internal iliac. (J)) Asceoidlng branches, directed upwards beneath the sartorius and rectus, and afterwards imder the tensor muscle of the fascia lata, communicate with the terminal branches of the gluteal, and with some of the external descending- branches of the cii'cumflex iliac artery. (c) Descending branches incline outwards and downwards upon the extensor muscles of the knee, covered \jj the rectus muscle. They are usually three or four in number, some being of considerable size ; most of them are distributed to the muscles on the fore-part of the thigh, but one or two can be traced beneath the vastus extemus muscle as far as the knee, where they anastomose with the arterial branches surrounding that joint. 2. The internal circumflex artery, smaller than the external circum- flex, arises close to that branch from the inner and hinder part of the deep femoral artery, and is directed backwards between the pectineus and the psoas muscle to the inner side of the femur. On reaching the tendon of the external obturator, along which the vessel passes to the back of the thigh, it divides into two principal branches. (a) The ascendinrj branch is distributed partly to the adductor brevis and gracilis, and partly to the external obturator muscle, near which it anastomoses with the obturator artery. (/>) The transverse branch passes backwards above the small trochanter, and appears on the back of the limb, between the quadratus femoris and great ad- ductor muscles, where it supplies the hamstring muscles, and anastomoses with the sciatic ai-tery and with the superior perforating branches of the deep femoral artery, (c) An articular vessel, arising from the transverse branch opposite the hip- joint, enters the joint through the notch in the acetabulam, beneath the trans- verse ligament, and supplies the adipose tissue and the synovial membrane in that articulation. Some offsets are guided to the head of the femur by the round ligament. In some instances the articular branch is derived from the obturator artery; and sometimes the joint receives a branch from both sources. 3. The inrforating arteries (perforantes) are branches which reach the back of the thigh by perforating the adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles ; they are four in number, including the terminal branch of the parent vessel {a) The first XK-rforatvng artery passes backwards below the pectineus muscle, through the fibres of the adductor brevis and magnus, and is distributed to both these adductor muscles, to the biceps and great gluteal muscle, and commu- nicates with the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. Ql) The second i)erforat\ng artery, considerably larger than the fii'st, passes through the adductor brevis and magnus ; after which it divides into ascending