ARTICULATIOXS OF THE LOWER LIMB, 174 malleolus ; the other, to the inner side of the astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone, as well as to the inferior calcaueo-scaphoid liga- ment. The external lateral ligament consists of three distinct bands separated by intervals and disposed in different directions. 1. The middle band descends from the extremity of the fibula, and is inserted into the middle of the external surface of the os calcis. 2. The anterior band passes obliquely forwards and inwards from the fore part of the outer malleolus to a part of the astragalus in front of its external malleolar surface ; it is the shortest of the three. 3. The ]josferior band, the strongest of the three, passes almost horizontally inwards from the pit on the inner and back part of the malleolus to the posterior surface of the astragalus. Fig. 156. Fig. 156.—Transverse-Vertical Section of the Eight Ankle-.Joint near its Middle, and of the Posterior Talo-Calcaneal Articulation, so as to show the Shape of the Articular Surfaces and Cavities, viewed from before. (A. T.) g 1, internal, 2, external malleolus ; 3, placed on the astra- galus at the angle between its superior and its external malleolar surfaces ; 4, interosseous tibio-fibular ligament ; 5, internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; 6, susten- taculum tali ; 7, calcaneo-fibular or middle part of the external lateral ligament; 8, inner part of the interosseous calcaneo-talar ligament ; 9, great tuberosity of the cal- caneum : between the tibia, fibula and astragalus, the synovial cavity is indicated by the dark space enclosed by a white line ; between the astragalus and os calcis a section of the posterior calcaneo-talar synovial cavity is shown. The anterior and posterior ligaments are merely scattered fibres in front of and behind the joint; those of the posterior ligament are weak and principally transverse. The synovial memlDrane of the ankle-joint extends upwards by a small process which lines the inferior peroneo-tibial articulation. Movements.—The movements of the ankle-joint are mainly those of flexion and extension of the foot, the directions of those movements being- principally determined by the shape of the articular surfaces. The external border of the superior cai-tilag-inous surface of the astragalus is curved, and longer than the internal border, and hence extension of the ankle-joint is accompanied v^ath a slight inward movement of the toes. The horizontal surfaces of both the tibia and astragalus are broader in front than behind ; hence in complete extension of the ankle the narrow part of the astragalus is brought into the widest part of the space between the malleoli, and a certain amount of lateral motion is allowed, whereas in complete flexion, as when the weight of the body, with completely Ibended knees, is supported on the toes, the broad part of the surface of the astragalus is pushed back into the naiTOwest part of the space, and the inferior extremity of the fibula is pressed upon, so as to stretch the ligaments between it and the tibia, and thus to prevent lateral movement of the joint, and give it at the same time a certain amount of spring. There appears to be no other move- ment between the tibia and fibula; these bones being bound together at their lower ends with remarkable firmness. AKTICULATIONS OP THE FOOT. Articulations of the Calcaneum, Astragalus, akd Scaphoid