DISTEIBUTION OF VESSELS IX THE ERAIX. 379 the brain. According to these authors, the three great arteries which go to the cerebrum—the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral—give origin to two very distinct systems of vessels. The first of these, consisting of branches given off by the arteries immediately after they leave the circle of Willis, is destined to the great central ganglia, and is called the central sijfitcm of arirrk'H; the other ramifies in the pia mater, and is distributed to the grey matter of the con- volutions and the subjacent white matter; it is called the cortical fii/.ste»i of arteries. These two systems are to a great extent independent of each other, the vessels which connect them being few in number, and of almost capillary minuteness. Moreover, not only are the two systems thus distinct, but the branches of the several arteries are also limited in their distribution to certain well-defined areas, and their communications are few and small, and occur only at the periphery of their respective areas of distribution, so as to render the areas practically independent territories. The same remark applies, in less degree, however, to the secondary, and even tertiary division of these arteries. The anterior cerebral has a veiy limited central distribution, giving only a few small branches (and these liable to much variation as to size and number) to the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum. Its cortical branches are three in number : the fii'st being distributed to the two internal orbital convolutions ; the second to the anterior extremity of the marginal convolution, to the superior, and to the anterior portion of the middle frontal convolutions on the outer sui-- face ; the third to the inner surface of the hemisphere as far as the extremity of the calloso-marginal fissure; the fourth to the quadrate lobule; and from this last branch the artery of the corpus callosum is given off. The middle cerebral immediately after leaving the internal carotid gives off a number of small vessels which pass directly upwards, parallel to each other, into the foramina of the anterior perforated space, and enter the base of the corpus striatum. They are distributed to the two extraventricular nuclei (grey nucleus and lenticular nucleus) of that body, to the posterior part of the nucleus candatus and the portion which borders upon the optic thalamus. The main trunk of the middle cerebral passes upwards and outwards in the fissure of Sylvius until it reaches the island of Reil, on the surface of which it divides into four branches. The first branch is limited in its distribution to the outer part of the orbital surface and the adjacent inferior frontal convolution ; the second branch sup- plies the posterior part of the middle frontal, and the chief part of the ascending frontal convolution ; the third branch passes in the fissure of Rolando to the rest of the ascending frontal and to the ascending parietal convolution and to the anterior part of the superior parietal lobule ; and the fourth, lying in the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, supplies the inferior parietal lobule, and the superior tempore-sphenoidal convolution. The jH).'<terior cerebral arteries (the origin and course of which are described at p. o8G) gives off a number of twigs in the posterior perforated spot, and others as it passes round the crus, both of which sets pass into the thalami optici, crura cerebri and corpora quadrigemina. The cortical branches are three in number : the first is distributed to the anterior part of the uncinate gyrus and its immediate vicinity ; the second branch supplies the posterior part of the uncinate gyrus and the lower part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe; the third, lying in the calcarine fissure, supplies the occipital lobe on its inner and outer surfaces. (H. Dui-et, in Archives de Physiol. 187i ; Heubner, in Centralblatt filr die Med. Wissensch. 1872.) SUBCLAVIAN AETERIES. The subclavian artery is only the commencing portion of a long- trunk which forms the main artery of the upper limb, and which is artificially divided for purposes of description into three parts, named the subclavian, axillary, and brachial arteries. The subclavian artery, arising on the right side from the extremity of the innominate stem, and on the left from the arch of the aorta, passes a short wav up into the neck, arches outwards over the pleura.