590 NEEVES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. interosseous space—one for the palmar, the other for the dorsal interosseous muscle, and supplies filaments to the two innermost lumbricales muscles. Opposite the space between the thumb and the index finger the nerve ends in branches to the adductor poUicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis poUicis. 1). The remaining part of the nerve supplies a branch to the palmaris brevis muscle and small twigs to the integument, and divides into two digital branches. Blgital nerves.—One of these belongs to the ulnar side of the little finger. The other is connected in the palm of the hand with a digital branch of the median nerve, and at the cleft between the little and ring fingers, divides into the collateral nerves for these fingers. The terminal disposition of the digital branches on the fingers is the same as that of the median nerve, to be presently described. SumiARY,—The ulnar nerve gives cutaneous filaments to the lower part of the forearm (to a small extent), and to the hand on its palmar and dorsal aspects. It supplies the following muscles, viz., the ulnar flexor of the carpus, the deep flexor of the fingers (its inner half), the short muscles of the little finger with the palmaris brevis, the inter- osseous muscles of the hand, the two internal lumbricales, the adductor pollicis and the inner half of the flexor brevis pollicis. Lastly, it con- tributes to the nervous supply of the elbow and wrist joints. Varieties.—When the occasional epitrochleo-anconeus muscle is present, it receives a bianch from the ulnar in the upper arm (Henle). From the same part of the nerve also small branches have been found entering the inner head of the triceps. In three instances, Gruber has found the nerve descending in front of the inner condyle instead of behind. A case has been recorded in which the ulnar nerve supplied also two branches to the flexor sublimis digitorum (Turner, " Nat. Hist. Eeview," 1864). The usual anastomosis between the digital branches of the median and ulnar nerves is sometimes wanting (Henle). Median nerve.—The median nerve arises by two roots, one from the outer, the other from the inner cord of the brachial plexus. Com- mencing by the union of these roots in front or on the outer side of the axillary artery, the nerve descends in contact with the brachial artery, gradually passing inwards over it, and near the elbow is at the inner side of the vessel. Crossing the bend of the arm it passes beneath the pronator radii teres, separated by the deep slip of that muscle from the ulnar artery, and continues straight down the front of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis digitorum and flexor profundus. Arrived near the wrist it lies beneath the fascia, between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and that of the flexor carpi radialis. It then enters the palm behind the annular ligament, and rests on the flexor tendons. Somewhat enlarged, and of a slightly reddish colour, it here separates into two parts of nearly equal size. One of these (the external) sup- plies some of the short muscles of the thumb, and gives digital branches to the thumb and the index finger; the second portion supplies the middle finger, and in part the index and ring fingers. The median nerve gives no branch to the upper arm. A. Branches in the forearm :— In the forearm the median nerve supplies muscular branches, and, near the wrist, a single cutaneous filament. All the muscles on the front of the forearm (pronators and flexors), except the flexor carpi