583 NEEVES OF THE SHOULDER. and beneath the levator angiili scapulfe. It is distributed to the deep surface of the rhomboid muscles, and gives sometimes a branch to the levator scapulce. The nerve of the mhclav'ms muscle, of small size, arises from the front of the cord which results from the union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is directed over the outer part of the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the subclavius muscle. This small nerve is commonly connected with the phrenic nerve in the neck or in the chest, by means of a slender filament. Branch to join the phrenic ncrce.—Thx^ small and short branch is an offset from the fifth cervical nerve ; it joins the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. Fig. 357. — Distribution op THE Suprascapular and Circumflex Nerves (from Hirsclifeld and Levielle). i a, the scalenus medius and posticus muscles ; &, levator anguli scapulse ; c, acromion ; d, deltoid muscle, of which the back part has been de- tached from the scapula and in part removed ; e, rhomboid muscle ; /, teres major ; g, la- tissimus dorsi ; 1, the brachial plexus of nerves as seen from behind ; 1', the nerve of the levator scapulse and rhomboid muscles ; 2, placed on the clavicle, marks the supra- scapular nerve ; 3, its branch to the supraspinatus muscle ; 4, branch to the infraspinatus ; 5, placed on the back of the humerus below the insertion of the teres minoi-, marks the circumflex nerve passing out of the quadrangular interval ; 6, its branch to the teres minor muscle ; 7, branches to the deep surface of the deltoid ; 8, cutaneous branch to the back of the shoulder. Posterior thoracic nerve.—The posterior thoracic nerve (nerve of the serra- tus magnus; external respiratory of Bell) is formed in the substance of the middle scalenus mu.scle by two roots, one from the fifth and another from the sixth nerve, and reaches the surface of the scalenus lower than the nerve of the rhom- boid muscles, with which it is often connected. It descends behind the brachial plexus on the outer surface of the serratus magnus, nearly to the lower border of that muscle, supplying it with numerous branches. Suprascapular nerve.—The suprascapular nerve arises from the back of the cord formed by the union of the fifth and sixth nerves, and bends beneath the trapezius to the upper border of the scapula, where it passes between the muscles and the bone. Entering the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, through the suprascapular notch (beneath the ligament which crosses the notch), the supra- scapular nerve supplies two branches to the supraspinatus, one near the upper, the other near the lower part of the muscle, and it then descends through the great scapular notch into the lower fossa, where it ends in the infraspinatus muscle. Articular branches.—In the upper fossa of the scapula, a slender ai'ficuhn' fthtni'/nt is given to the shoulder-joint, and in the lower fossa other twigs of the nerve enter the same joint and the substance of the scapula. Varieties.—The communicating branch to the phrenic nerve has been seen to pass down into the thorax over the subclavian artery and even over the vein before joining -^-ith the phrenic. The posterior thoracic nerve sometimes gets an additional branch from the seventh cervical, and Lucas has recorded three Fig. 357.