225 ACTION OF MUSCLES OF FOREARM AXD HAND. the fingers is either completed or is opposed by any resistance, as when the over-extended hand is pressed against a surface in pushing, or in the support of the body. Extension of the n-ri.st, in a similar manner, is accomplished not only by the three muscles specially devoted to that function, but also by the extensors of the fingers. To ensure the efficient action of the long extensor and flexor muscles of the fingers it is necessary that there should be simultaneous action of the flexors and extensors of the wrist respectively ; for the wrist-joint must be fixed backwards by its extensors in order that the long flexors of the fingers may act, and the wa-ist must be fixed forw^ards by its flexors in order that the long extensors may act upon the fingers. The fcj'or communis digitoram sithlimls and the ^fiexor2)roft(ndii.s bend respec- tively the second and the third phalanges of the fingers, while the crfcnsor com- 'inunis extends the first phalanx. The four liimhr'tcalr.'i, on the other hand, and the seven //i/^c'?'^^.^/-muscles have a double action, in consequence of their insertion into the lateral expansions of the extensor tendons, and of some of the interossei directly into the first phalanges. This action consists first, in the flexion of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and second, in extension of the second and third phalanges. The lumbricales and interossei, therefore, are antago- nists to both the long flexors and to the long extensor. This partial and combined action of the long and short muscles upon the fingers, of which the movements made in forming the hair-stroke in writing may be taken as an example, has been well known for a considerable time, especially as regards the lumbricales, but it has recently been confirmed and elucidated as regards the interossei by the electro-physiological experiments and pathological observations of Duchenne, whose interesting work as quoted below,* may be advantageously consulted on this and other muscular movements. With respect to the interossei, it is further to be observed that, besides being flexors of the first and extensors of the second and third phalanges in the manner previously stated, they severally exercise an abducting or adducting action on certain fingers, or direct them away from or towards the middle line of the hand, according to the places of their respective insertions : and thus the four- dorsal interossei are abductors of the index, middle and ring fingers, and the three palmar interossei are adductors of the index, fourth and fifth fingers respectively. "VMien the thumb is opposed to the other fingers, the metacarpal bone is drawn forwards, chiefly by the oj'jjonens, the addncior, and the ficxor hreci.s muscles. The precise action of the ahdiietor is to draw the thumb forwards. The e.rten.sor ossi-s metacarpi is entirely an abductor, as indicated by the name given to it by AJbinus. The extensor j?riini internodii likewise is an abductor as well as an extensor of the first phalanx. The extensor seci/ndi internodii extends both phalanges and also draws the metacarpal bone backwards. The addiietor and the inner fibres of fhe jtexor hreris adduct the thumb. A combination of the actions of the different muscles in succession produces circumduction. The little finger is withdrawn from the others by its ahductor, as the ring- finger is withdrawn from the middle finger by the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle ; and the ahductor acting with the long flexors, likewise assists fhe flexor hrcvi.s in keeping the first phalanx firmly down in grasping. While th.Q 2)almaris long us has the eft'ect of tightening the palmar fascia, the indmaris h?rris assists in deepening the holloAV of the hand by raising the inte- gument on the inner side, so as to increase the hypothenar prominence. * Dr. D. B. Duchenne, '* Physiologie des Mouvements, &c.," Paris, 1867. VOL. I. Q