280 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND XECK. is inserted into the angle and the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw as high as the dental foramen. Relations.—The iiiternal pteiyg-oid muscle is placed on the iimer side of the ramus of the jaw, somewhat in the same manner as the masseter lies on the outside. Between the external surface of the muscle and the ramus of the maxilla are the internal lateral ligament and the internal maxillary vessels, with the dental artery and nerve ; and at its upper part the muscle is crossed by the external pterygoid muscle. Its inner surface is in contact, v/hilst in the ptery- goid groove, with the tensor palati muscle, and lower dowa with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Vvr. 206. B ■ A . Fig. 206.—VIE^YS of the Pterygoid Muscles—A, fhom the outer side ; B, from THE INNER SIDE, \ 1, external pterygoid ; 2, internal pterygoid—the outer surface in A, the inner surface in B. The external pterygoid muscle, occupying the zygomatic fossn, arises by two fleshy heads placed close together, the superior of whicli is attached to that part of the external surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone which looks into the zygomatic fossa, and to the ridge which separates that surface from the temporal fossa; while the in- ferior, which is larger, is attached to the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, and to the tuberosities of the palate and upper max- illary bones. The fibres from both heads pass backwards, and converge to be inserted into the fore part of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Relatiom.—The internal maxillary artery is usually placed on the outer surface of this muscle, passing thence between the heads of origin ; while the buccal nerve issues from between those heads. The deep surface rests against the upper part of the internal pterygoid muscle, whose direction it crosses, also the internal lateral ligament of the lower javf, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the middle meningeal artery. The upper border is in contact v^^ith the great Vv'ing of the sphenoid bone, and is crossed by the deep temporal nerve and arteries. Yarktlcs.—i)terycjo\dt'US iiroprlm (Henle). This is nearly a vertical slip, which passes from the crest of the great wing of the sphenoid to the tuberosity of the palate bone or to the posterior margin of the external pterygoid plate. In some cases repoi-ted by Mr. Wagstaffe (Journ. of Anat, vol. v., p. 281), in which this slip was present, the maxillary head of the external pterygoid was absent, and some of the ordinary fibres arose from those vertical bands. Another form