100 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Erom what is stated above it appears that in the bones of the arm and forearm the epiphyses which meet at the elbow-joint begin to ossify later, and unite with their shafts earlier, than those at the opposite ends of the bones, while in the bones of the thigh and leg the epiphyses at the knee-joint are the soonest to ossify and the latest to unite with their shafts. In the bones of the arm and forearm the nutrient foramina are directed towards the elbow ; in those of the thigh and leg they are directed away from the knee. Thus in each bone the epiphysis of the extremity towards which the nutrient foramen is directed is the first to be united to the shaft. The carpus is entnely cartilaginous at birth. Each carpal bone is ossified from a single nucleus. The nucleus of the os magnum appears in the first year ; that of the unciform in the first or second year ; that of the cuneiform in the third year ; those of the trapezium and semilunar bones in the fifth year ; that of the scaphoid in the sixth or seventh year ; that of the trapezoid in the seventh or eighth year ; and that of the pisiform in the twelfth year. The Metacarpal bones and Phalanges are usually formed each from a prin- cipal centre for the shafts and one epiphysis. The ossification of the shafts begins about the eighth or ninth week. In the four inner metacarpal bones the epiphysis is at the distal extremity, while in the metacai-pal bone of the thumb and in the phalanges it is placed at the proximal extremity. In many instances, however, as was known to Albinus, and has been more fully shown by Allen Thomson (Jour, of Anat., 1869), there is also a distal epiphysis visible in the fii'st metacarpal bone at the age of seven or eight years, and there are even traces of a proximal epiphysis in the second metacarpal. In the seal and some other animals there are always two epiphyses in these bones. The epiphyses begin to be ossified from the third to the fifth year, and are united to their respective shafts about the twentieth year. v.—THE PELVIS A13"D LOWER LIMB. The divisions of the lower limb are the haunch or hip, thigh, leg, and foot. In the haunch is the innominate bone, which enters into the formation of the pelvis ; in the thigh is the femur; in the leg the tibia and fibula ; and at the knee a large sesamoid bone, the patella. The foot is composed of three parts ; the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. THE INNOMINATE BONE. The innominate bone, os coxce, or ]jelvic tone, with its neighbour of the opposite side and the addition of the sacrum and coccyx, forms the pelvis ; it transmits the weight of the body to the lower limb. In form it is constricted in the middle and expanded above and below, and is so bent upon itself that the anterior margin of the upper part looks outwards, while the lower part is directed inwards. On the external aspect of the constricted portion is the acetcibulwn, a cavity which articulates with the femur, and perforating the inferior expan- sion is a large opening, the oMurator foi^amen. The superior wider part of the bone forms part of the abdominal wall: the inferior enters into the formation of the true pelvis. The innominate bone articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, with the sacrum, and with the femur. In the description of this bone it is convenient to recognise as distinct the three parts of it which are separated in early life, viz., the