499 Fig. 318.—Internal BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. Veins. (A. T.) i Fig. 318. lower vesical veins, into one of which the left dorsal vein of the penis, 11, is seen to diately underneath the mucous membrane. From it proceed superior, middle, and inferior hsemorrhoidal veins accompanying the arteries of the same name, and it communicates freely with the plexuses in front of it. The superior liEcmorrhoidal vein being a branch belonging to the portal system, the hsemorrhoidal plexus forms a very direct communi- cation between the portal and general venous systems. View of the Male Pelvis from the left side, to show THE Principal The greater part of tlie OS innominatum and pelvic wall of the left side, and the upper parts of the rectum and urinary bladder, have been removed : the left common iliac and the right internal iliac arteries, and the left ■external and internal iliac veins, have been ■cut short, a, the right psoas magnus muscle; b, the anterior su- perior iliac spine ; c, Poupart's ligament ; d, the cavernous'and i-spongy body of the penis divided near the :root ; +, the spongy •body of the bulb, above which the mem- branous part of the >urethra, the prostate, •&C. ; c, the left os j)ubis close to the ^symphysis ; /, the anus ; y, the spine of "the ischium with the «hort sacro-sciatic ligament; h, auricular sacro-iliac surface ; i, interior of the urinary bladder ; Jc, exterior of the rectum ; I, transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra ; 1, lower part of the vena cava inferior; 1', abdominal aorta ; 2, common iliac veins; 2', right common iliac artery ; 3, external iliac veins ; 3', external iliac artery ; 4, internal iliac veins, that of the right side entire, that of the left divided and in great part removed ; 5, middle and other veins of the sacral plexus; 6, ilio-lumbar and lumbar veins ; 7, right gluteal and upjier lateral sacral veins ; 8, 8', obturator vein and artery of the right side ; 9, pelvic plexus of veins of the right side ; 9', that of the left side connected with the lower vesical plexus ; 10, placed on the right side on the short sacro- sciatic ligament immediately below the division of the internal iliac vein into the ijudic and sciatic veins : on the left side, below 4, the sciatic vein is cat short; 10, lower down, the pudic vein ; 10', the perineal veins ; 11, placed on the prostate among the pass ; 12, placed on the lower part of the rectum, may indicate the plexus of hemorr- hoidal veins. The vaginal plexus, surrounding the vagina principally in its lower part, communicates freely with the h^emorrhoidal and vesical plexuses. K K 2,