457 THE DEEP FEMOEAL ARTERY. some others wliicli pierce the fascia lata ; it is distributed to the integument. All the preceding arteries give small branches to the l^^mphatic dands in the oToin. Fi;;. 293. Fig. 293.—Deep View of the Femo- ral Artery and its Branches on THE Left Side (from R. Quain). i The sartorius muscle lias been re- moved in part, so as to expose the artery in the middle third of the thigh. «, the anterior superior iliac spine ; b, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle near the outer abdominal ring, c, rectus femoris muscle ; d, abductor longus ; c, fibrous sheath of Hunter's canal covering the artery ; 1, femoral artery ; 1', femoral vein divided and tied close below Poupart's ligament; 2, profunda femoris artery ; 3, anterior crural nerves, the figure lies between two superficial epigastric branches ; 3', superficial circumfiex iliac artery ; 4, internal circumflex branch ; 5, super- ficial pudic branches ; 6, external cir- cumflex branch, with its ascending transverse and descending branches separating from it ; 6', twigs to the rectus muscle ; 7, branches to the vastus internus muscle ; 8 and 9, some of the muscular branches of the femoral ; -f-, origin of the superior per- forating artery. The deep femoral artery —(profunda femoris) the prin- cipal nutrient vessel of the thigh, is an artery of consider- able calibre, being nearly equal in size to the continuation of the femoral after the origin of this great branch. It usually arises from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. At its com- mencement, it inclines outwards in front of the iliacus muscle, to such an extent as to be visible for a short distance external to the femoral artery; it then runs downwards and backwards behind that vessel, and passing between the long and great adductor muscles near their femoral attachments, divides into terminal branches, which pierce the great adductor, and ramify in the muscles at the back and outer part of the thigh. This artery lies successively in front of the iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles. The femoral and profunda veins