436 AETERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. arise in the mode ordinarily described; viz., as two separate vessels from the abdominal aorta. (Op. cit. p. 417.) Lumljar arteries.—The lumbar arteries resemble the intercostal' arteries, not only in their mode of origin, but also in a great measure in the manner of their distribution. They arise from the back part of the aorta, and are usually four in number on each side. They pass outwards, each resting on the body of the corresponding lumbar Tertebra, from the first to the fourth, and soon dip deeply under the psoas muscle. The two upper arteries are likewise under the pillars of the diaphragm ; and those on the right side are covered by the vena cava. At the interval betw^een the transverse processes, each lumbar artery divides into an aMominal and a dorsal branch. Branches.—(a) The aMominal branch of each lumbar artery runs outwards behind the quadratus lumbornm,—the lowest of these branches not unfrequently in front of that muscle. Continuing- outwards between the abdominal muscles, the artery ramifies in their substance, and maintains communications with branches of the epigastric and internal mammary in front, with the terminal branches of the intercostals above, and with those of the ilio-lumbar and circum- flex iliac arteries below. {h) The dorml branch of each lumbar artery, like the corresponding branch of the intercostal arteries, gives olf, immediately after its origin, an offset, named ,<tj?inal, which enters the spinal canal. The dorsal branch then proceeding back- wards with the posterior primary branch of the corresponding lumbar nerve between the transverse processes of the vertebras, divides into smaller vessels, which are distributed to the muscles and integuments of the back. {<:■) The qjinal hranch enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral fora- men, and, having given an offset which runs along the nerves to the dui-a mater and Cauda equina, it communicates with the other spinal arteries, and divides- into two branches, which are distributed to the bones in the following manner:— one curves upwards on the back part of the body of the vertebra above, near tO' the root of the pedicle, whilst the other descends in a similar manner on the vertebra below; and each communicates with a corresponding branch from the neighbouring spinal artery. As this arrangement prevails on .both sides and throughout the whole length of the spine, there is formed a double series of arterial arches behind the bodies of the vertebra3, the convexities of which are turned towards each other. From the arches on opposite sides offsets are diiected inwards at intervals to reinforce a median longitudinal vessel, which extends along the spine like the single artery on the front of the spinal cord. The arches- are moreover joined together across the bodies of the vertebrge by transverse branches. From this interlacement of vessels, numerous ramifications are distributed to the periosteum and the bones. "Varieties.—The lumhar arteries of opposite sides, instead of taking their origin separately from the aorta, occasionally commence by a common trunk, whose branches pass out laterally, and continue their course in the ordinary way. Two arteries of the same side are sometimes conjoined at their origin. On the last lumbar vei-tebra, the place of a lumbar artery is often taken by a branch from the middle sacral artery, and the ilio-lumbar compensates for the absence of the lumbar vessel amongst the muscles. MINUTE ANASTOMOSES OF THE VISCEEAL AND PARIETAL BEANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AOETA. The existence of minute anastomoses between some of the visceral branches of the abdominal aorta and those supplying the wall of the cavity has been recog- nised by several anatomists, and various examples have been noticed in the pre- vious description. These communications have been more distinctly proved and