INFEA-IIYOID MUSCLES. 295 occasionally, to a small extent, from the cartilage of the first rib. It is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. Helations.—The muscle is concealed below by the sternum and the stemo- mastoid muscle, higher up by the skin and fascia only ; it lies on the sterno-thyi-oid and thyro-hyoid muscles, which it partly covers. The inner border approaches that of the corresponding" muscle towards the middle of its extent, but is separated from it by a slight interval superiorly, and by a larger interval near the sternum ; the outer margin is in contact with the omo-hyoid near the os hyoides. The muscular fibres are, in many cases, interrupted by a transverse tendinous intersection. Fig. 214.—YiEW OF THE Fig. 214. Submaxillary Muscles tliyi'oid, points also to the ^ lower part of the right mus- cle ; 12, placed on the right sterno-mastoid, points to the upper and lower bellies of the right omo-hyoid. The sterno-thyroid, broader and shorter than the preceding muscle, behind which it lies, arises from the thoracic surface of the first part of the sternum, lower down and more internally than the sterno-hyoid muscle, and ascends, diverging a little from its fellow, to be inserted into the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Bclat'wnii.—The greater part of its anterior surface is concealed by the sternum and the sterno-hyoid muscle, as well as by the sterno-mastoid. By its deep sur- face it rests on the innominate vein, the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the th;^Toid body. The inner margin is contiguous to the muscle of the other side in the lower part of the neck. The median incision in. the operation of tracheotomy is made between the two muscles. Ydrlcth'x.-—This muscle is sometimes partly crossed by transverse or oblique tendinous lines. At the upper extremity a few fibres are often found to blend with the thyro-hyoid muscle or with the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The thyro-hyoid muscle is continued upwards from the preceding; it arises from the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and (For the explanation of the references in the upjoer part of the iigure, see p. 282). c, body of the hyoid bone ; d, mastoid process ; e, placed on the front of the thyroid cartilage, points to the thyro-hyoid muscle ; /, upper jjart of the ster- num ; g, lateral lobe of the thyroid gland ; -f, its isth- mus, above which is the cri- coid cartilage covered by the crico-thyroid muscle; 8, placed on the levator sca- pulae, points to the left middle constrictor of the pharynx ; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, jjoints to the left inferior constrictor ; 10, right sterno-hyoid ; 11, placed on the left sterno- AND the Depressors op the Hyoid Bone and Larynx, from before. (After Bourgery). g \