14 VEETEBEAL COLUMN. dorsal vertebrse, and distinguished by the absence of costal articular surfaces. Fig. 9. The spinous process projects Fig. 10. with the ribs. Behind each at downwards, which corresponds to t verse processes, and is called the i Fig. 9.—Third Lumbar Vertebra. (A. T.) 4 A, from above ; B, from the right side. 1, the body ; 2, the pedicle and inter- vertebral notch ; 3, the lamina ; 4, the vertebral ring, somewhat triangular ; 5, the sijinous process ; 6, transverse process ; C 7, 7/ superior and inferior articular pro- cesses ; e, the raammillary tubercle, appa- rently on the superior articular process ; /, the accessory tubercle, between the ar- ticular and transverse processes. The 1)0(111 has a greater diameter transversely than frombefore back- wards, and viewed from above or below its surface presents a reni- form outline. That of the fifth lumbar vertebra is considerably deeper in front than behind. The laminm are shorter, deeper, and thicker than those of the dorsal vertebrse. The superior notcJies are shallow, the inferior deep. horizontally backwards. It has con- siderable breadth from above downwards, and is thickened and rough along its posterior edge. Fig. 10.—Two Lower Dorsal and two Upper Lumbar Vertebra. (A. T.) ^ with portions of the eleventh and twelfth ribs of the right side : viewed from behind, chiefly to show the relations of the trans- verse processes and adjacent tubercles. 1, body of the eleventh dorsal vertebra ; 5, spinous j)rocess of the second lumbar ; 6, costal tubercle of the transverse process; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular pro- cesses ; e, mammillary, and /, accessory tubercle ; c, c, two ribs. These indica- tions are placed only on the alternate verte- bras to avoid crowding the figure. The transverse jjrocesses, long and somewhat spatula-shaped, project directly outwards. Their extremities lie in series with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, and its base is a small process pointing le inferior tubercles of the dorsal trans- ecessory process (anapophysis, Owen).