181 METATARSAL AND DIGITAL AUTICULATIONS. dorsal and iilcmtar ligaments are short transverse bands stretching across the five metatarsal bones from one to another. The interosseous ribres, lying deeply between the bones, occupy the rough parts of their lateral surfaces : they are of considerable strength and firmness. The intermetatarsal articular cavities are lined with synovial memlrane, which in each is continued forwards from that lining the joints formed between the bases of these bones and the tarsus. The first and second metatarsal bones do not articulate laterally with each other. Transverse metatarsal ligament.—The digital extremities or heads of the metatarsal bones are loosely connected by a transverse band, which is identical in its arrangement with the corresponding structure in the hand, with this exception, that it is attached to the great toe, whereas in the hand the transverse metatarsal ligament does not reach the thumb. Fig. 1G2.—Ligaments of the Foot, seen from BELOW. (A. T.) ^■ 1 and 2, portions of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; 3, calcaneo-cuboid or long plantar ligament; 3', deep or short part of the same ; 4, plantar calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; 5, three scapho- cuneiform ligaments of the internal, middle and ex- ternal cuneiform bones ; G, is placed npou the external cuneiform hone, towards Avhich is seen coming from behind a cubo-cuneiform ligament ; 7, is placed upon the internal cuneiform bone ; from 6 and 7, are seen passing downwards the plantar cuneo-metatarsal ligaments ; x , part of the first dorsal cuneo-metatarsal ligament; 8 and 9, ligamentous fibres prolonged from, the cuboid bone and sheath of the perouens longus muscle iiijon the outer metatarsal bones ; 10, 10, be- tween these figures, the posterior intermetatarsal (or transverse) ligaments ; 11, 11, anterior transverse metatarsal ligament, continued across the four meta- tarsal spaces ; 12, intersesamoid ligament ; 13, 13, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral metatarso-digital ligaments ; 14, 14, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral digital (phalangeal) liga- ments of the first series ; those of the second series have no figure placed to mark them ; 15, inferior liga- ment of the phalangeal articulation of the great toe. Metatarso-digital and Interdigital Articulations.—The heads of the meta- tarsal bones are connected with the small concave articular surfaces of the first phalanges by two lateral ligaments, an inferior ligament, to which sesamoid plates are united by scattered fibres, and a synovial membrane,—all which are closely similar to those Avhich belong to the corresponding parts of the hand. In the first metatarso-digital articulation the sesamoid plate is divided into two parts, which are fully ossified, forming the sesamoid bones. These are held together by strong transverse ligamentous fibres, and being provided with cartilaginous surfaces, move upon the corresponding grooved cartilaginous surfaces of the first metatarsal bone. The articulations of the phalanges with one another are also con- structed on the same plan as those of the superior extremity. In each, the bones are held in contact by two lateral ligaments and an inferior