622 NEEVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. The nerve first reaches the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, above the middle of the leg ; and, after crossing in front of that vessel once or oftener, lies to the outer side of it at the bend of the ankle. (^i) MusGulctT tranches.—In its course along the leg, the anterior tibial nerve gives slender filaments to the muscles between which it is placed, namely, the tibialis anticus, the long extensor of the toes, and the special extensor of the great toe. Q)) The external Iraneli of the anterior tibial nerve turns outwards over the tarsus beneath the short extensor of the toes ; and, having become enlarged (like the posterior interosseous nerve on the wrist) terminates in branches which supply the short extensor muscle, and likewise the articulations of the foot. (^•) The internal hrancli, continuing onwards in the direction of the anterior tibial nerve, accompanies the dorsal artery of the foot to the first interosseous space, and ends in two branches, which supply the integument on the neighbouring sides of the great toe and the second toe on their dorsal aspect. It communi- cates with the internal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Summary op the External Popliteal Nerve.—This nerve sup- plies, besides articular branches to the knee, ankle, and foot, the peronei muscles, extensor muscles of the foot, also the integument of the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot. It gives the ramus communicans fibularis to the short saphenous branch of the internal popliteal nerve, and communicates with the long saphenous nerve. SYNOPSIS OF THE CUTANEOUS DISTRIBUTION OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. 1. In the Head.—The face and headin front of the ear are supplied with sensory nerves from the fifth cranial nerve. The ophthalmic division supplies branches to the forehead, upper eyelid, and dorsum of the nose. The superior maxillary division supplies the cheek, ala of the nose, upper lip, lower eyelid, and the region behind the eye, over the temporal fascia. The inferior maxillary division supplies the chin and lower lip, the pinna of the ear on its outer side, and the integument in front of the ear and upwards to the vertex of the head. The head, lehind the ear, is mainly supplied by the great occipital branch of the posterior division of the second spinal nerve, but above the occipital protuberance there is also distributed the branch from the posterior division of the third spinal nerve ; and, in front of the area of the great occipital nerve, is a space supplied by anterior divisions of spinal nerves, viz., the back of the pinna of the ear, together with the integument behind and that in front over the parotid gland, which are supplied by the great auricular nerve ; while between the area of that nerve and the great occipital the small occipital nerve intervenes. The auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve also is distributed on the back of the ear. 2. In the Trunk.—The ^wsferwr divisions of the spinal nerves supply an area extending on the back from the vertex of the skull to the buttock. This area is narrow in the neck ; it is spread out over the back of the scapula ; and on the buttock the distribution of the lumbar nerves extends to the trochanters. The area supplied % the cervical plexus, besides extending upwards, as already mentioned, on the lateral part of the skull, stretches over the