534 THE CEANIAL NEE^TIS. and are entirely sensory, while the third or inferior maxillary trunk, receiving a considerable part from the ganglion, has associated with it also the whole of the fibres of the motor root, and thus distributes both motor and sensory branches. I.—OPHTHALMIC NERVE. The ophthalmic nerve, or first division of the fifth nerve, the smallest of the three offsets from the Gasserian ganglion, is somewhat flattened, about an inch in length, and is directed forwards and upwards to the sphenoidal fissure, where it ends in branches which pass through the orbit to the surface of the head and to the nasal fossae. In the sladl it is contained in the process of the dura mater bounding externally the cavernous sinus, and is joined by filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic : according to Arnold, it gives recurrent branches to the tentorium cerebelli. It also fi'equently communicates by a con- siderable branch with the fourth nerve. Branches.—Near the orbit the ophthalmic nerve furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the frontal and lach- rymal branches. These branches are transmitted separately through the sphenoidal fissure, and are continued through the orbit (after supplying some filaments to the eye and the lachrymal gland) to their final distribution in the nose, the eyelids, and the muscles and integu- ment of the forehead. Lachrymal Tbranch.—The lachrymal branch is external to the frontal at its origin, and is contained in a separate tube of dura mater. In the orbit it passes along the outer part, above the muscles, to the outer and upper angle of the cavity. Near the lachrymal gland, the nerve has a connecting filament with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve ; and when in close apposition with the gland, it gives many filaments to that body and to the conjunctiva. Finally, the lach- rymal nerve penetrates the palpebral ligament externally, and ends in the upper eyelid, the terminal ramifications being joined by twigs from the facial nerve. Varieties.—Turner records a case in which on one side the lachrymal nerve was absent, and the gland was supplied hy a twig from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary ; on the other side the lachrymal was small, and was supplemented by a branch from the orbital. (Journal of Anat., vol. vi. p. 101.) In consequence of the junction which occurs between the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth and the fourth nerve, the lachrjinal branch sometimes appears to be derived from both these nerves. Swan considers this the usual condition of the lachrymal nerve. ('' A demonstration of the Nerves of the Human Body," page 36. London, 1834.) Frontal brancli.—The frontal branch, the largest division of the ophthalmic, lies, hke the preceding nerve, above the muscles in the orbit, being situated between the elevator of the upper eyelid and the periosteum. About midway forwards in the orbit, the nerve divides into two branches, supratrochlear and supraorbital. a. The supratroclilcar Irancli (internal frontal) is prolonged to the inner angle of the orbit, close to the point at which the pulley of the upper oblique muscle is fixed to the orbit. Here it gives downwards a filament to connect it with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve, and issues from the cavity between the orbicular muscle of the lids and the bone. In this position filaments are distributed to the upper eyelid.