184 THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. thiD, others are more or less elongated straps, and others are cylindrical or fusiform masses of various thickness; hence some of the various names applied to thera, such as long and short, square, round, rhomboid^ tkc. Not unfrequently two or more muscular parts run into one, as in the bicipital, tricipital, or quadricipital forms. In other instances muscles, beginning as single masses, become divided, at their remote ends, into two or more muscular tendinous slips. A division of a muscle into two parts by an intermediate tendon gives the form called digastric or biventral, and there are some muscles in which a greater number of parts are thus separated by what have been called tendinous inscrip- tions. In the description of the muscles it is customary to state the attach- ments of their opposite ends under the names of origin and insertion; the first term being usually applied to the more fixed, or in the case of the limbs the proximal extremity, and the second to the more movable or remote attachment ; but it is to be observed, that it is often diffi- cult to lay down a rule for the correct use of these terms, and that in the great majority of instances it is of importance to consider the action of a muscle as it may alfect the motions of the parts attached aot to one only but to both of its extremities. The study of the actions of the muscles either singly or in groups, though strictly a physiological subject, cannot be separated from their anatomical description. With respect to this the following general principles ought to be kept in view. 1st. That the force exerted by any muscle during its contraction is in proportion to the mnnder of mus- cular elements or fibres composing the muscle. 2nd. That the extent of motion, in so far as it merely depends on the shortening of the fibres of the muscle, is in proportion to the length of the fibres. And Srd. That the direction of the force produced by a contracting muscle is in the line of the axis of the whole muscle if it run straight between its opposite points of attachment, but in the line of the portion attached to the moving part if the muscle or its tendon be bent in its course. In most instances of such deflection from the straight course the muscles or their tendons run in loops or in grooves somewhat after the manner of a pulley. The loops are either fibrous or cartilaginous. In the pulley-like disposition of tendons running over bones, there are fre- quently fibrous or cartilaginous or bony nodules developed at the place of angular bending of the tendons. The name sesamoid, originally given to the small bones developed in some of the digital tendons, has been applied generally to all similar intratendinous structures. It is further to be observed that the direction in which the muscular fibres or fasciculi run in a muscle is very frequently not that of the axis of the muscle, nor do the muscular fasciculi in the great majority of instances extend from end to end in a muscle. On the contrary, the muscular fibres and fasciculi are much oftener comparatively short, and are attached within the length of the muscle to prolongations of the main tendons or to other tendinous bands which intersect its substance ; and thus the muscular fibres run into these tendinous parts with various degrees of obliquity to the axis of the muscle. The muscular flesh forms a large proportion of the weight of the whole body. This proportion has heen carefully determined by mea- surements recently published by Dr. G. v. Liebig (Archiv. fur Anat. u. Physiol. 1874, p. 96), from whose tables the following is calculated