THE AZYGOS VEINS. ire placed on the sides of the spine. In the lower part of the thorax Fig. 31 ^ Fig, 313.—Sketch of the Principal Systemic Venous Trunks, the Azygos, and Intercostal Veins. For tlie detailed description of this figure see p. 473. The following indications relate to the accompanjdng part of the text:—8', the left superior intercostal veins (the number is omitted on the right side); 9, the main trunk of the azygos vein ; the uppermost number marks its junction with the supe- rior cava, the loM^est its passage into the abdomen ; 9', the left or hemiazygos ; 10, thoracic duct; 11, inferior vena cava ; 12, the union of a branch of the left azygos with the left renal vein ; 13, 13', the right and left azj'gos veins continued down into the abdomen, and joining some of the lumbar veins; 15, union of lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and sacral veins. the two veins of opposite sides arc dis posed symmetrically, bnt higher up the blood gathered from some of the -veins of the left side is poured into the trunk on the right, which becomes enlarged and unsymmetrical, and has on that account received the name of mam or right azygos^ :<'^ while the united lower veins from the corresponding parts on the left side con- stitute the small or left azygos. The right azygos vein (vena azygos major) generally commences below by branches from the lumbar veins (ascend- ing lumbar) of the right side, and some- times from the renal vein ; but not nn- frequently it receives a small branch from the inferior cava, where that vessel turns forwards to reach its opening in the dia- phragm. Passing from the abdomen into the thorax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, or to the outer side of that opening through the fibres of the right crns, the azygos vein ascends on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrge, until it arrives opposite the root of the right lung, over which it arches forwards, and then opens into the upper vena cava, im- mediately above the point at which that vessel is invested by the pericardium. When passing through the opening in the diaphragm, this vein is accompanied by the thoracic duct, both being situated on the right side of the aorta. In the thorax, maintaining the same position with respect to the duct and the oeso- phagus, it passes in front of the intercostal arteries, and is covered by