€24 MUSCULAR DISTEIBUTION OF THE NERVES. The sole of the foot is supplied by the plantar nerves. The internal plantar nerve gives branches to three toes and a half; the external to the remaining one toe and a half. SYNOPSIS OF THE MUSCULAR BISTRIBUTION OF THE CEREBRO- SPINAL NERVES. 1. To Muscles of the Head and Pore Part of the Neck. The muscles of tJie orh't are mostly supplied by the third cranial nerve—the superior division of that nerve being distributed to the levator palpebrse and the superior rectus muscles ; and the inferior division to the inferior and internal recti and the inferior oblique. The superior oblique muscle is supplied by the fourth nerve, the ex- terual rectus by the sixth ; while the tensor tarsi has no special nerve ^ipart from those of the orbicularis palpebrarum, which are derived from the facial. The siqierficial mnsdes of the face and scctJp, which are associated in their action as a group of muscles of expression, together with the buccinator muscle, are supplied by the portio dura of the seventh cranial nerve; the retralieus auriculam and occipitalis muscles being supplied by its posterior auricular branch. The clccj) muscles of tJie face, employed in mastication, viz., the tem- poral, masseter, and two pterygoid muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve. IluscJes above the hyoicl 'bone.—The mylo-hyoid muscle and anterior belly of the digastric are supplied by a special branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve ; the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and the stylo-hyoid, are supplied by branches of the portio dura. The genio-hyoid and the muscles of the tongue receive their nervous supply from the hypoglossal nerve. The muscles ascendwg to the hyoid hone and larynx^ viz., the sterno- hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, are supplied from the ramus descendens noni and its loop with the cervical plexus, while the thyro- hyoid muscle receives a separate twig from the ninth nerve. Tlie larynx, iiharynx, and soft pcdate.—The crico-thyroid muscle is supplied by the external laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the other intrinsic muscles of the larynx by the recurrent laryngeal. The muscles of the pharynx are supplied principally by the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric; the stylo-pharyngeus, however, is sup- plied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Of the muscles of the soft palate unconnected with the tongue or pharynx, the tensor palati receives its nerve from the otic ganglion (which also supplies the tensor tympani); the levator palati gets a twig (Meckel) from the posterior palatine branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion, and the azygos uvul^ is probably sup- plied from the same source. 2. To Muscles belonging exclusively to the Trunk, and Muscles ascending to the Skull. All those muscles of the bach which are unconnected with the upper limb, viz., the posterior serrati, the splenius, complexus, erector spinas, and the muscles more deeply placed, receive their supply from the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves.