284 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Varieties.—This imiscle may be inseparably united with, and even upon one side replaced by the anterior belly of the digastric. It frequently receives an accessory slip from one of the other hyoid muscles, as the stemo-hyoid, omo- hyoid, or stylo-hyoid. The genio-liyoid is a narrow muscle arising from the inferior of the two genial tubercles behind the symphysis of the jaw, and inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. Bdatlons.—It is in contact above with the lower border of the g-enio-g-lossus muscle, and below with the mylo-hyoid and with its fellow in the middle line. Nerves.—Tlie muscles of this group receive their motor nerves from various sources, viz., the anterior belly of the digastric and the mylo-hyoid from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, and the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid from the facial nerve near the place of its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The genio-hyoid receives its motor nerve from the hypoglossal. Actions.—The genio-hyoid and mylo-hyoid muscles draw the hyoid bone upwards and forwards, as happens in the first stage of deglutition. The stylo- hyoid muscles draw it upwards and backwards, and come into action in raising the pitch of the voice. The anterior belly of the digastric muscle acts by itself like the genio-hyoid and the posterior half like the stylo-hyoid ; but when both bellies act together they are Fig. 210. capable of producing two movements, in one of which, when the lower jaw is fixed, the hyoid bone is elevated, and in the other, when the hyoid bone is held downwards by the depressing muscles, the lower jaw is depressed. Fig. 210.—Muscles of the Tongue, Pharynx, &c., of the left side. (a. t.) ^ a, external pterygoid pro- cess ; h, styloid process ; c, section of the sjanpliysis of the lower jaw ; d, front of the body of the hyoid bone ; e, thyroid cartilage ; /, cricoid cartilage ; between d and e, the thyro-hyoid membrane and ligament ; g, isthmus of the thyroid gland ; 1, stylo-glossus muscle ; 2, stylo-hyoid ; 3, stylo-pharyngeus ; 4, cut edge of the mylo-hyoid ; 5, genio- hyoid ; 6, genio-hyo-glossus ; 7, hyo-glossus ; 8, HnguaHs in- ferior ; 9, part of the superior constrictor of the pharynx ; 10, back part of the middle con- strictor ; 11, inferior constrictor; 12, upper part of the cesopha- gus ; 1-3, crico-thyroid muscle. MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. The tongue is a muscular organ attached posteriorly to the hyoid lone, and niferiorly to the lower jaw. It is composed partly of fibres I