THE CEANIAL NEEVES. Fig. 345.—Diagrammatic Sketch 654:^ Fig. 345. geal ; 11, inner portion of the spinal EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. The eighth pair is composed of three distinct nerves—the glosso pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, which leave the skull through the anterior and inner division of the foramen lacerum posti- cum, to the inner side and in front of the internal jugular vein. Two of these nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric, are attached to the medulla oblongata in the same line, and resemble one another somewhat in their distribution, for both are distributed to the first part of the alimentary canal. The other, the spinal accessory, takes its origin chiefly from the spinal cord, and is mainly distributed to muscles ; but it gives fibres to the first two nerves by its communicating branch. I.—GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is destined, as the name implies, for the tongue and pharynx. Surface attachment.—The nerve arises from the surface of the restiform body of the medulla by five or six roots, arranged in a vertical line, the highest being contiguous to the facial and auditory nerves, the lowest to the highest roots of the pneumogastric. Deep origin.—The fibres pass inwards and-backwards through the substance of the medulla, to reach the nucleus, a small column of large nerve-cells placed deeply beneath the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, betw^een the highest part of the vagal nucleus and the lower part of the inner auditory nucleus. from behind of the roots of the Nerves of the Eighth Pair, with THEIR Ganglia and Communica- tions (from Bendz). A, imrt of the cerebellum above tbe fourth, ventricle; B, medulla oblon- gata ; C, posterior columns of the spinal cord ; 1, root of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 2, roots of the pneumo-gastric ; 3, 3, 3, roots of the spinal accessory, the xxppermost number indicating the filaments intermediate between the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastric ; 4, jugular ganglion of the glosso-pha- ryngeal ; 5, petrous ganglion ; 6, tympanic branch ; 7, ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric ; 8, auri- cular branch ; 9, long ganglion on the trunk of the pneumo-gastric : 10, branch from the iipper ganglion to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyn- accessory; 12, outer portion; 13, pharyngeal branch of the pneumo- , gastric ; 14, superior laryngeal branch ; 15, tT\ags connected with the sympathetic ; 16, fasciculus of the spinal accessory prolonged with the pneumo-gastric. Course and distribution.—Directed outwards from its place of origin over the flocculus to the foramen jugulare, it leaves the skull with the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, but in a separate tube of dura mater. In passing through the foramen, somewhat in