THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 539 Anterior dental branch.—The anterior dental branch, leaving the trunk of the nerve at a varying distance behind its exit from the infra- orbital foramen, enters a special canal in front of the antrum of High- more. In this canal it receives the communicating fihament from the posterior dental nerve, and divides into two branches, which furnish offsets for the front teeth. (a) The inner branch supplies the incisor and canine teeth. Filaments from this nerve enter the lower meatus of the nose, and end in the membrane covering the lower spongy bone. Also above the root of the canine tooth, it unites with a branch of the posterior nasal nerve from Meckel's ganglion, and forms with it a small thickening, theganrjlUm of BocMalch, from which branches are described as descending to the alveolar process and gums of the incisor and canine teeth. (See Hyrtl's Lehrbuch, p. 804.) It is probable, however, that this enlargement contains no nerve cells, and is a minute plexus rather than an actual ganglion. The outer branch gives filaments to the bicuspid teeth, and is connected with the posterior dental nerve. Infraorbital branches. — The infraorbital branches, large and numerous, spring from the end of the superior maxillary nerve beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip, and are divisible into palpebral^ nasal, and labial sets. Fig. 338. Fig. 338.—Deep View op the Spheno-Palatine Ganglion, and its Connections AYiTH other Nerves, &c. (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). | 1, superior maxillary nerve ; 2, posterior superior dental ; 3, second posterior dental branch ; 4, anterior dental ; 5, union of these nerves ; 6, si)heno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve ; 8, its great superficial petrosal branch ; 9, its carotid branch ; 10, a part of the sixth nerve, receiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical sympathetic ganglion; 12, its carotid branch; 13, trunk of the facial nerve near the knee or bend at the hiatus Fallopii ; 14, glosso-pliaryngeal nerve ; 15, anastomosing branch of Jacobson ; 16, twig uniting it to the sympathetic ; 17, filament to the fenestra rotunda ; 18, filament to the Eustachian tube ; 19, filament to the fenestra ovahs ; 20, external deep petrosal nerve uniting with the lesser superficial petrosal ; 21, internal deep petrosal twig uniting with the great superficial petrosal. a. The palpebral hraneh (there are sometimes two branches) turns upwards to the lower eyehd in a groove or canal of the bone, and sujiplies the orbicular muscle ; it ends in filaments which are distributed to the eyelid in its entire breadth. At the outer angle of the eyelids this nerve is connected with the facial nerve. h. The nasal hranclieft, directed inwards to the muscles and integument of the side of the nose, commimicate with the cutaneous branch of the nasal nerve. c. The labial, the largest of the terminal branches of the upper maxillary