506 THE ABSOEBENT VESSELS. describe a curve over the apex of the pleura, and then terminates on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, in the angle formed by the union of that vein with the subclavian. The diminution in the size of the duct as it ascends is such that at the fifth dorsal vertebra it is often only two lines in diameter, but above this point it again enlarges. The duct is generally waving and tortuous in its course, and is constricted at intervals so as to give it a varicose appearance. The thoracic duct has numerous double valves at short intervals throughout its whole course, the constrictions of their attachments giving a nodulated appearance to the vessel. They are more numerous in the upper part of the duct. At the termination of the duct in the veins there is a valve of two segments, so placed as to allow the contents of the duct freely to pass into the veinS;, but which eflFectually prevents the reflux of either chyle or blood into the duct. Varieties—The thoracic duct is not always a single trunk throughout its whole extent; it frequently divides opposite the seventh or eighth dorsal ver- tebra into two trunks, which soon join again ; sometimes it separates for a shoi-t distance into three divisions, which afterwards unite, and enclose between them spaces or islets. Cruikshank in one case found the duct double in its entne length ; " in another triple, or nearly so." In the neck, the thoracic duct often divides into two or three branches, which in some instances terminate separately in the great veins, but in other cases unite first into a common trunk. In a case of right aoi-tic arch the thoracic duct has been observed to end in the veins of the right side (A. Thomson). Dr. Morrison Watson describes a case in which without transposition of the viscera, or any change in the disposition of the branches of the aorta, the thoracic duct terminated in the veins of the right side, and no trace of a left lymphatic duct could be discovered. (" Joum. of Anat.," vol. vi., p. 427.) In the lower animals, the termination of the thoracic duct in the veins of the right side as well as of the left is not uncommon. THE BIQHT LYMPHATIC DUCT. The right lymphatic duct is a short vessel, about a line or a little more in diameter, and about a quarter or half an inch in length, which receives the lymph from the absorbents of the right upper limb, the right side of the head and neck, the right side of the chest, the right lung, and the right half of the heart, and from part of the upper surface of the liver. It enters obliquely into the receding angle formed by the union of the right subclavian and internal jugular veins, where its orifice is guarded by a double valve. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. The lymphatics of the lower limb are arranged in a superficial and a deep series. Those of the superficial series, together with the super- ficial lymphatics of the lower half of the trunk, converge to the super- ficial inguinal glands ; with the exception of a few which dip into the popliteal space. Those of the deep series converge to the deep inguinal glands. The popliteal lymphatic glands, usually very small, and four or five in number, surround the popliteal vessels, and are imbedded in a quantity of loose fat. They receive from beloAV the deep lymphatics of the leg, and those which accompany the short saphenous vein ; and