2S2 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. tendon is connected with the body and great cornu of the os hyoides by a broad band of aponeurotic fibres in the form of a loop, and hned with synovial membrane, and by the fleshy fibres of the stylo-hyoid muscle, through which the tendon passes. Bclations.—The anterior belly, placed immediately beneath the deep cervical fascia, rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle ; it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by dense fascia, and occasionally is imited by muscular fibres to it or to the mylo-hyoid muscle. The posterior belly is covered by the mastoid process and the muscles arising* from that bone, and crosses the external carotid artery, and the internal jugular vein. Fio-. 20S. Fig. 208.—YiEW OF THE Sub- maxillary Muscles ani> THE Depressors of the Hyoid Bone and Larynx, prom before. (a. t.) ^ On the right side, the platys- ma alone has been removed on the left side both the bellies of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, the mylo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and omo- hyoid muscles have been re- moved : a, symphysis ; h, angle of the lower jaw ; c, middle of the body of the hyoid bone ; d, mastoid pro- cess ; e, i^laced on the front of the thyroid cartilage, points to the thyrodiyoid mnscle ; /, upper part of the sternnm ; //, lateral lobe, and +, isth- mus of the thyroid gland ; above the front of the cricoid cartilage covered by the crico-th^a^oid muscle ; 1, posterior belly ; 1', anterior belly of right digastric muscle; 2, right mylodiyoid; 3, left genio-hyoid ; 4, hyo-glossus ; 5, stylo-glossus ; 5', a portion of it seen on the right side ; 6, stylo-hyoid of the right side ; 7, stylo-pharyngeus of the left side ; 8, placed on the levator scapula;, points to the left middle constrictor of the pharynx ; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, points to the left inferior constrictor ; 10,^ right sterno-hyoid ; 11, placed on the left sterno-thyroid, points also to the lower part of the right muscle ; 12, placed on the right sterno-mastoid, points to the upper and lower bellies of the right omo-hyoid. Varidles.—The digastric muscle is subject to many variations. The posterior belly may receive an accessory slip from the styloid process (Wood), or from the angle of the lower jaw (Henle). It has been seen arising from the styloid process. Rarely the muscle is monogastric, the posterior belly alone being present and being insei-ted into the ramus of the jaw (McWhinnie). The anterior belly is frequently divided into two or more parts, one or even two of which may cross the middle line and decussate with similar slips from the muscle of the opposite side : or a slip sometimes passes to the median raiohe of the mylo-hyoid, with which and its fellow of the opposite side it becomes incorporated. The tendon of the digastric has been seen in front of, or more rarely behind the stylo-hyoid instead of passing through it. The 'mcnto-hyold (Macalister) is an occasional mesial slip found passuag