456 BRANCHES OF THE FEMOEAL ARTERY. Relation to Veins.—^The femoral vein is very close to the artery, both being enclosed in the same sheath, and separated from each other only by a thin partition of fibrous membrane. At the groin the vein lies in the same plane as the artery, and on the inner side ; but gradually inclining backwards, it is placed behind it at the lov/er end of Scarpa's space, and afterwards gets somewhat to the outer side. The deep femoral vein, near its termination, crosses behind the femoral artery ; and the long saphenous vein, as it ascends on the fore part of the limb, lies to the inner side ; but it not unfrequently happens that a superficial vein of considerable size ascends for some space directly over the artery. Relation to Nerves.—At the groin the anterior crural nerve lies a little to the outer side of the femoral artery (about a quarter of an inch), separated from the vessel by some fibres of the psoas muscle and by the sheath and fascia. Lower down in the thigh, the long sa])1ienous nerve accompanies the artery until this vessel perforates the adductor magnus. There are likewise small cutaneous nerves which cross the artery. Branches.—The femoral artery gives off the following branches :— some small and superficial, which are distributed to the integument and glands of the groin and ramify on the lower part of the abdomen, viz., the external pudic (superior and inferior), the superficial epigastric, and the superficial circumflex iliac; the great nutrient artery of the muscles of the thigh, named the deep femoral ; several muscular branches; and lastly, the anastomotic artery, which descends on the inner side of the knee-joint. The portion of the femoral artery extending- from its commencement to the origin of the deep femoral, a part varying from an inch to two inches in length, is sometimes distinguished by surgical writers as the common femoral, and described as dividing into the superjic'ml and deep femoral arteries. The external pudic arteries arise either separately or by a common trunk from the inner side of the femoral artery. The superior, the more superficial branch, courses upwards and inwards to the pubic spine, crosses the external abdominal ring, passing in the male over the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the integuments on the lower part of the abdomen, and on the external organs of generation. The inferior branch, more deeply seated, extends inwards, resting on the pectineus muscle, and covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces on reaching the inner border of the thigh, and is distributed to the scrotum in the male, or to the labium in the female, its branches inosculating ■with those of the superficial perineal artcr^^ The superficial epigastric artery, arising from the femoral vessel, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, passes forwards through the fascia lata, and runs upwards on the abdomen in the superficial fascia covering the external oblique muscle. Its branches, ascending nearly as high as the umbilicus, anastomose with superfi.cial branches of the epigastric and internal mammary arteries. The superficial circumflex iliac artery runs outwards in the direc- tion of Poupart's ligament towards the iliac spine, across the psoas and iliacus muscles: to botii of these it gives small branches, as also