CEREBEAL VEINS. 481 liy]^)Ogiossal nerve ; 1, the riglit internal carotid artery as it makes its tiira in the cavern- ous sinus in tlie groove of the sphenoid bone ; 2, its oi)thalniic branch proceeding into the orbit, below and to the outside of the optic nerve ; 3, division of the basilar artery into the two posterior cerebral arteries, one of which is represented on the right side as giving otF the communicating artery to the internal carotid ; 4, basilar artery ; 5, verte- bral arteries giving off the anterior spinal ; x , great meningeal vessels spreading upwards from the foramen spinosum ; 6, superior petrosal sinus ; 7, inferior i^etrosal running back into the lower part of the lateral sinus ; 8, termination of the lateral sinus in the internal jugular vein, and continuation of the lateral sinus ; 8', commencement of the lateral sinus ; 9, occipital sinuses ; 10, torcular Herophili, and below that number in the figure, the superior longitudinal sinus. The superficial veins upon the upper surface of the hemispheres are for the most part lodged in the tortuous sulci between the convo- lutions ; but some run over the convexity of the convolutions. Their general direction is towards the middle line ; and on reaching the margin of the longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, they receive branches from the flat mesial surface of the hemispheres, and becoming invested by tubular sheaths of arachnoid membrane, incline obhquely forwards and open in that direction into the superior longi- tudinal sinus. The veins upon the sides and under surface of the brain are directed outwards, to open into the lateral and other sinuses at each side. The deep veins of the brain commence by branches within the ventricles of that organ. Thus, upon the surface of the corpus striatum several small venous branches are seen, which for the most part converge to form a slender vein which runs along the groove between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, and opens into one of the veins of the choroid plexus. The minute veins of the clioroid plexus pass backwards, and incline towards the middle line from each side, so as to form, by their union, two veins—vence. Galeni. These, lying parallel, run directly backwards, enclosed within the velum inter- positum, and escape from the interior by passing through the great transverse fissure of the brain between the under surface of the corpus callosum and the corpora quadrigemina. In this way they reach the anterior margin of the tentorium cerebelli, at its place of union with the falx cerebri, where they terminate by entering the straight sinus. The veins of the cereMliim are disposed in two sets. Those of the upper surface incline inwards and forwards for the most part, and run upon the upper vermiform process, over which they ascend a little to reach the straight sinus, in which they terminate; some, farther for- ward, open into the veins of Gralen. Those at the under surface run transversely outwards, and pour their contents into the occipital and the lateral sinuses. CRANIAL SINUSES. The venous sinuses within the cranial cavity admit of being divided into two sets, viz., those placed in the prominent folds of the dura mater, and those situated in the base of the skull. The form and size of the sinuses are various. All of them are lined by a continuation of the internal membrane of the veins, the dura mater serving as a substitute for the other coats. The sinuses which are contained in the several processes or folds of VOL. I. II