THE SUBCLAVIAN AETERY. 392 An unusual branch., of considerable size, occasionally comes off from it, and passes downwards and outwards, crossing- several of the ribs, on their inner surface, in contact with the pleura. The internal mammary artery may likewise furnish a bronchial branch. 4.—Superior Intercostal Artery.—This artery generally arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian, behind the anterior scalenus muscle on the right side, and immediately at the inner side of the muscle on the left side. Taking its course backwards, it speedily gives off* the deep cervical branch (profunda cervicis), and bending backwards and downwards in front of the neck of the first rib, ends in one or two intercostal spaces : on the right side it more frequently descends into the second space than on the left side. On the neck of the first rib, the artery is situated on the outer side of the first dorsal ganglion of the sympathetic nerve. Branches.—Besides giving off the deep cervical artery, the superior intercostal gives branches to the first and second intercostal spaces. The branch to the first space is similar in course and distribution to the aortic intercostals : that to the second space usually joins with one from the first aortic intercostal. A small offset is likewise sent backwards, through the first space, to the posterior spinal muscles, and also a small one through the corresponding intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. Varieties.— Origin.—The superior intercostal artery has been found, in a few instances, to proceed from the vertebral artery or from the thyi'oid axis. Cimr.sc.—It has been observed to pass between the necks of one or two ribs and the coiTesponding transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae ; and a case has been recorded in which, after arising from the vertebral artery, it descended through the intertransverse foramen of the last cervical vertebra, and then continued, as in the instances just mentioned, between the necks of the ribs and the contiguous transverse jnocesses of the vertebras of the back. (Quain on the Arteries, plate 22, fig. 5.) The intercostal artery is sometimes, though very rarely, wanting. The deep cervical artery, often described as a separate branch of the subclavian artery, arises in most cases from the superior intercostal. Eesembling the posterior branch of an aortic intercostal artery, it gene- rally passes backwards in the interval between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, to reach the posterior aspect of the neck. Here it ascends in the interval between the trans- verse and spinous processes, as high as the second vertebra, under cover of the complexus muscle, between this and the semi-spinalis colli. Some of the branches communicate with those given outwards by the verte- bral artery, whilst others ascend to anastomose with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. Varieties.— OrUjln.—The deep cervical artery sometimes arises from the sub- clavian, and more rarely from the posterior scapular. It is not unficquently supplemented by a branch turning backwards from the ascending cervical artery beneath the transverse process of tie third cervical vertebra, or by another branch, from the superior intercostal, or, in some instances, by a twig from the posterior scapular or inferior thyroid arteries. Course.— This artery occasionally passes back between the sixth and seventlx cervical vertebras, and sometimes between the first and second dorsal, or even below the second. It has been seen to pass between the first rib and the trans- verse process which supports it. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The depth of the subclavian artery, its intimate and varying connections with