638 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES AND GANGLIA. THE GREAT PLEXUSES OF THE SYMPATHETIC. Under this head may be included certain large plexuses of nerves placed further forwards in the visceral cavity than the gangliated cords, and furnishing branches to the viscera. The principal of these plexuses are the cardiac, the solar, and the hypogastric with the pelvic plexuses prolonged from it. They are composed of assemblages of nerves, or of nerves and ganglia, and from them smaller plexuses are derived. CARDIAC PLEXUS. This plexus receives the cardiac branches of the cervical ganglia and those of the pneumo-gastric nerves, and from it proceed the nerves which supply the heart, besides some offsets which contribute to the nervous supply of the lungs. It lies upon the aorta and pulmonary artery, where these vessels are in contact, and in its network are dis- tinguished two parts, the superficial and the deep cardiac plexuses, the deep plexus being seen behind the vessels, and the superficial more in front, but both being closely connected. The branches pass from these plexuses chiefly forward in two bundles, accompanying the coronary arteries. Superficial Cardiac Plexus.—The superficial cardiac plexus lies in the concavity of the arch of the aorta, in front of the right branch of the pulmonary artery. In it the superficial or first cardiac nerve of the sympathetic of the left side terminates, either wholly or in part, together with the lower cardiac branch of the left pneumo-gastric nerve, and in some cases also that of the right side. In the superficial plexus a small ganglion, the gcmfjUon of Wrislerg, is frequently found at the point of union of the nerves. Besides ending in the anterior coronary plexus, the superficial cardiac plexus furnishes laterally filaments along the pulmonary artery to the anterior pulmonary plexus of the left side. Deep Cardiac Plexus.—The deep cardiac plexus, much larger than the superficial one, is placed behind the arch of the aorta, between it and the end of the trachea, and above the point of division of the pul- monary artery. This plexus receives all the cardiac branches of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, except the first or superficial cardiac nerve of the left side. It likewise receives the cardiac nerves furnished by the vagus and by the recurrent laryngeal branch of that nerve, with the exception of the left lower cardiac nerve. Of the branches from the right side of the plexus, the greater number descend in front of the right pulmonary artery, and join branches from the superficial part in the formation of the anterior coronary plexus, while the rest, passing behind the right pulmonary artery, are distri- buted to the right auricle of the heart, and a few filaments are continued into the posterior coronary plexus. On the left side, a few branches pass forwards by the side of the ductus arteriosus to join the superficial cardiac plexus ; but the great majority end in the posterior coronary plexus. The deep cardiac plexus sends filaments to the anterior pulmonary plexus on each side. Coronary Plexuses.—The anterior coronary jylexvs, formed at first from the fibres of the superficial cardiac plexus, passes forwards between the aorta and