386 THE SUBCLAVIAN AETEEY. which it divides into two terminal branches, the posterior arteries of the cerebrum. Branches.—Besides numerous small branches to the substance of the pons, the basilar artery gives off the following-:— (a) The transverse arteries, several on each side, pass directly outwards. One, the artery of tlie auditory nerve, accompanies that nerve into the internal auditory meatus and labyrinth of the ear. (Jj^ The anterior inferior cerebellar arteries pass backwards, one on each side, to the anterior part of the under surface of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the inferior cerebellar branches of the vertebral arteries, (ifO The superior cerehellar arteries arise so close to the bifurcation of the basilar, that this artery is described by several anatomists as dividing into four branches. Each one turns backwards and outwards immediately behind the third nerve, and entering the groove between the pons Varolii and the crus cerebri, tui-ns round the latter, close to the fom-th nerve, to reach the upper surface of the cerebellum, where it divides into branches. Of these some extend outwards, and one or more backwards along the superior vermiform process, to reach the circumference of the cerebellum, where they anastomose with the branches of the inferior cerebellar arteries : while others run inwards to supply the vermiform process and the valve of Vieussens, and in part the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral artery on each side, resulting from the division of the basilar, passes outwards, parallel to the superior cere- bellar artery, and separated from it at its origin by the third nerve, which comes forwards between the two vessels. It turns backwards round the crus cerebri, and then runs outwards and upwards on the under surface of the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, passing near the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum. It divides beneath the posterior lobe into many branches, which ramify upon the under^ median, and outer surfaces, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Branch.es.—Immediately after its origin the posterior cerebral artery gives off numerous small parallel branches, which perforate the substance of the brain between the crura, at the point which is called from this circumstance the pos- terior perforated spot. As it turns backwards, a short distance from its origin, this artery is joined by the 2^osterior eommvnieating artery, and in this way con- tributes as already described (p. 363) to form the circle of Willis. Lastly, the posterior cerebral gives origin to a small branch, the i^osterior cJwroid, which, arising external to the junction of the communicating artery, turns backwards over the crus cerebri and the tubercula quadrigemina, supplying these with branches, and ending in the velum interpositum and choroid plexus, in the interior of the brain. Varieties.—The basilar artery is originally formed by the coalescence of two separate vertebral arteries, and traces of a septum are sometimes found in its interior. (Davy, " Researches," &c., vol. i. p. 301.) The occurrence of a perfora- tion of the vessel, which has also been observed, may be likewise attributed to the incomplete fusion of the two arteries. The posterior cerebral artery is occasionally given off on one side from the internal carotid artery. 2.—Thyroid axis.—The thyroid axis springs from the fore part of the subclavian artery, close to the inner side of the anterior scalenus muscle. It is a short thick trunk, and receives the name of axis," because, at a line or two from its origin, it divides into branches, which diverge in difiPerent directions, viz., the inferior or ascending thyroidj the suprascapular, and a third branch, which is either the transverse