TEMPOEO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. 145 connection with the joint, and by some anatomists is not recognised as a h'gament. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is a thin plate placed between the articular surfaces of the bones. It is of an oval form, broadest transversely, thickest posteriorly, and thinnest at its centre, where it is sometimes perforated. The inferior surface, which is in contact with the condyle, is concave ; the superior is concavo-convex from before backwards, conforming with the articular surface of the temporal bone. Its circumference is connected at the outside with the external lateral ligament, and anteriorly with the external pterygoid muscle. Synovial Membranes.—The synovial membrane which lies between Fig. 132.—Antero-Posterior Fig. 132. Section of the Temporo- Maxillary Articulation OF THE right SIDE, (A. T.) 3 1, is placed close to the articular eminence, and points to the superior synovial cavity of the joint; 2, is placed close to the articular surface of the head of the lower jaw, and points to the inferior synovial cavity of the joint ; X, is placed on the thicker posterior portion of the inter- articular fibro-cartilage. the interarticular fibro- cartilage and the glenoid cavity is larger and looser than that which is in- terposed between the fibro-cartilage and the condyle of the jaw. When the fibro-cartilage is perforated, the upper and lower synovial cavities necessarily com- municate with each other. The stylo-maxillary ligament is the name given to a strong thickened band of fibres connected with the cervical fLxscia extending from near the point of the styloid process to the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, where it is inserted between the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. It separates the parotid from the sub- maxillary gland. It may be proper also to mention in this place the stylo-hyoid liga- ment, a thin fibrous cord, which extends from the point of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and serves to suspend' that bone from the styloid process. A considerable portion of the stylo-hyoid ligament is sometimes converted into bone in the human subject, and in many animals it is naturally osseous, constituting, the ejpihijal loiie. Movements.—The jaw is capable of movements of elevation and depression, of some degree of lateral displacement, and of protraction and retraction ; but it is to be observed that when the jaw is depressed, as in opening- the mouth, the condyle advances from the glenoid cavity so as to be placed on the articular eminence in front of it. The movements which take place in the superior and VOL. I. L