22 VEETEBEAL COLUMN. each vertebra, epiphysial plates are formed after puberty, as in other vertebrae,, and two flat irregnlar plates of bone are added to each lateral sui-f ace of the sacrum, the uppermost of which extends over the sides of the first two or three, while the lower connects the remaining two. These appear from the 18th to the 20th year, and are united about the 25th. The bodies of the sacral vertebrse are at first separated by intervertebral plates, but about the 18th year, in the case of the lower vertebrae, ossification begins to extend through these plates and the epiphyses, so as completely to unite the adjacent bodies. The ossific union of the first and second bodies does not take place till the 25th year or later Previous to this, the lateral masses have coalesced nearly in the same order as the bodies. The deficiency of the spine and dorsal part of the laminge usually existing in the fifth sacral vertebra, and not unfrequently extending to the foui-th, but more rarely to the thii-d, may be attributed in part to the non-extension of ossification in that dii-ection : but such varieties of form, like many others to which the sacral vertebrae are subject, are probably intimately connected with the nature and development of the foimative matrix of the bones. The more completely open state of the sacral canal posteiiorly found in cases of spina-bifida is un- doubtedly connected with early morbid changes interfering with the natural process of development. Coccygreal Vertebrae.—Each of the coccygeal vertebrae is ossified from a distinct piece of cartilage, and usually from a single centre, but in the upper sometimes from two centres. Ossification commences in the fii'st generally about the time of birth; in the second, from the 5th to the 10th year; in the thiid, some time before, and in the fourth, some time after puberty. The ossific union of the three lower coccygeal vertebrse occui-s before middle life ; their union with the first, and the union of this with the sacnmi, belong to the later periods of life, GENERAL AND SERIAL HOMOLOGY OF THE VERTEBRA-. The study of the various forms presented by the parts of the vertebral column, and of its relation to the rest of the skeleton in man and animals, as also of its development in the foetus, has led to the formation of the general views of homology referred to in the introduction. These views originated, in somewhat different foi-ms, mainly with Oken, Carus, Geoffrey St. Hilah-e, and Owen ; and, with various modifications and extensions by more recent writers, as Goodsir, Huxley, Gegenbaur, St. George Mivart, and Flower, are now admitted by almost aU anatomists, in some shape or other, as the basis of a morphological Pig. 21.—Views of the Different Vertebra from above to illustrate their Homologies. (A. T.) 1, atlas; 2, axis; 3, sixth cervical; 4, seventh cervical with supermimerary ribs; 5, middle dorsal; 6, upper dorsal, with costal arch and sternum attached; 7, middle lumbar; 8, first lumbar with supernumerary ribs ; 9, lower lumbar ; 10, upper sacral ; 11, upper sacral vertebra, presenting the lumbar form on the right side, as in the oblique pelvis ; 12, fourth sacral vertebra in a young subject; 13, ioxir coccygeal vertebrae, in the several figures the parts are indicated by letters as follows, viz., in 1, s, spine ; n, neural arch ; c', the space occupied by the processus dentatus, or displaced body ; h, anterior or precentral arch ; or, superior articular process : in 2, c", processus dentatus ; ar, superior articular jDrocess ; z' inferior articular process : in 3, c, centrum or body ; 2, z', superior and infei'ior articular processes : in 4, t, t, transverse processes ; v, v, ver- tebrarterial foramina ; co, moveable right suijernumerary or cervical rib ; x, with a dotted line marks the place where an anchylosed rib on the left side may be considered to be superadded to the transverse process (diapophysis and parapophysis) of the vertebra : in 5, t, transverse process with costo-transverse facet ; cc, costo-central facet : in 6, v, ver- tebrarterial interval ; ct, costo-transverse, and cc, costo-central articulations ; co, first rib : in 7, w, mammillaiy, and a, accessory tubercles ; t, transverse process : in 8, co, co', left and right supernumerary ribs : in 10, I, the lateral mass : in II, Z', place of the, lateral mass, remaining undeveloped in this instance : in 12, tl, the transverse process and lateral mass which unite with the corresponding parts above ; /, /', anterior and, posterior sacral foramina thus formed : in 13, c, the centmm or body, which alone remains in the last coccygeal vertebra.