588 NERVES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. on the outer side of the forearm. Communications are established between it and the radial and the external cutaneous branch of the niusculo-spiral. Varieties.—In some cases it does not perforate the coraco-brachialis muscle. It is frequently found to communicate by a cross branch with, or to be an offset of the median nerve ; and in the latter case, the coraco-brachialis muscle receives a separate branch from the brachial plexus, which may be explained thus,—that the main part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, instead of piercing- the coraco-brachialis muscle, remains adherent to the outer root and trunk of the median. Ulnar nerve.—The ulnar nerve, the largest branch of the inner cord of the brachial plexus, descends on the inner side of the artery of the limb as far as the middle of the arm, then turns backwards through the internal intermuscular septum with the inferior profunda artery, to reach the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. From the axilla to this place it is covered only by the fascia, and it may be felt through the integument a little above the elbow. It here passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and it remains concealed by that muscle as far as the middle of the forearm ; it thence extends in a straight course along the outer margin of the muscle, between it and the ulnar artery, to the outer side of the pisiform bone. Above the wrist it gives off a large dorsal branch to [the hand, and continuing onwards it enters the palm on the surface of the annular ligament, and divides into muscular and cutaneous branches. The ulnar nerve usually gives off no branches in the upper arm. A. Branches m the foeearm :— a. Articvlar Jilamcnts are given to the elbow-joint as the nerve passes behind it. Some filaments are also given to the wrist-joint. Jj. Muscular hrancJies.—One branch enters the upper part of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and another supplies the two inner divisions of the deep flexor of the fingers. c. Cutaneous hranclies to the forearm.—These two small nerves arise about the middle of the forearm by a common trunk. One pierces the fascia, and turning downward, joins a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. This branch is often absent. The second, a 'palmar hrancJi, lies on the ulnar artery, which it accom- panies to the hand. This little nerve gives filaments around the vessel, and ramifies in the integument of the hand, joining in some cases with other cutaneous offsets of the ulnar or median nerve. (1. Dorsal Itranch to the hand—This large offset, leaving the trunk of the ulnar nerve two or three inches above the wrist, winds backwards beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris and divides into branches ; one of these ramifies on the inner side of the little finger, another divides to supply the contiguous sides of that finger and the ring finger, while a third joins on the back of the metacarpus with the branch of the radial nerve which supplies the contiguous sides of the ring and middle finger. The several posterior digital nerves, now described, are united with twigs directed backwards from the anterior digital nerves of the same fingers. B. Palliar branches :— a. The deej} Iranch separates from the trunk beyond the annular ligament, and, dipping down through the muscles of the little fijQger in company with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, it follows the course of the deep palmar arch across the hand. It supplies the short muscles of the little finger as it pierces thero.; and as it lies across the metacarpal bone, it distributes two branches to each