72 BO^^ES OF THE HEAD. "border, in front of the canine socket. The part in front of this fissure—namely, that which bears the incisor teeth—forms in all mammals except man a separate bone, the intcrwaxillarij ox2>r('ma,rUJary ; and anatomists have therefore sought with great care for proofs of its original independence in the human subject, but it does not aj)pear that even in the earliest stages of development it has*, been seen by any one entirely unattached to the rest of the bone, or that its line of suture has been traced upon the facial surface. On the other hand, in cases of completely cleft palate, the bones supporting the incisor teeth are placed on a projecting portion of bone corresponding to the premaxillary, which is articu- lated to the fore part of the vomer, and is entirely detached from the superior maxillary bones. The palate bone is ossified from a single centre, which appears in the seventh or eighth week at the angle between its horizontal and ascending parts. The vomer is ossified from a single nucleus appearing at the upper part about the eighth week. From this nucleus two laminse are developed, which, passing down Fig. 62. Fig. 62.—The Fcetal Vomer near the time of Birth (R. Quain). kmm^i^—^ 1 & 2 show the two plates of which the bone consists, and which are united behind and below. on either side of the middle line, embrace the septal car- tilage. These laminae gradually undergo increased union from behind forwards till the age of pubei-ty, thus forming a mesial plate, with only a groove remaining on its anterior and superior margins. The nasal and lachrymal bones are each ossified from a single centre, which appears about the eighth week. The malar bone has been generally described as being ossified from a single nucleus, but more recently it has been observed to be double in the human foetus of two months, and it remains composed of two parts in some quadrumana through life. (Canestrini in Ann. d. Soc. d. Natur. in Modena, 1867 ; Darwin, on the Descent of Man, vol. i. p. 124.) The inferior turbinated bone is ossified from a single centre, whicli only appears in the fifth month. The inferior maxilla begins to ossify before any other bone except the clavicle. It consists of two similar lateral parts, which are still separate at birth. Fig. 63.—The Inferior Maxilla of a Child at Birth (R. Quain). a kh indicate the two portions separate at the symphysis. The ossific matter is at first deposited in fibrous tissue, surrounding the carti- lage of Meckel externally, and at a later period cai-tilage participates in the ossifi- cation. Some observers admit only a single ossific centre for each side (Nes- bitt and Meckel) ; while, according to others, in addition to the main piece there are separate nuclei for the coronoid process, the condyle, the angle, and the inner side of the alveolus (Spix), or only for some of these parts (Kercki-ingius. Beclard, Cruveilhier). The dental canal is at first a simple open groove : but by a gradually deepening, and by the growth of a thin lamina of bone upon the inner side of the body of the jaw, it is converted into a channel at the bottom of the dental groove. This lamina also forms the inner wall of the dental groove, in which, as in the upper jaw, the alveoli are formed by the subsequent growth of partitions. At birth the coronoid process is large, the neck of the condyle short and bent backwards, the ramus also very short and oblique, the angle at