273 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK, superior and internal recti with the inferior oblique ; and in the downward and inward direction the inferior and internal recti with the superior oblique. And the same is true of the upward and outward and downward and outward move- ments of direction ; for in all these movements the action of the oblique muscles is necessary to control or supijlement the rotatory tendency of the recti muscles ; and in the consentaneous movements of the two eyes the whole six muscles must co-operate in both eyes to produce that perfect agreement in their move- ments of direction and convergence which is required for perfect vision. It is unnecessary here to enter into the detail of the m.odifications of these actions of the muscles which must accompany changes in the various consenta- neous movements of the eyes, as, for example, in the convergence which is asso- ciated with the adjustment of the eyes to near and distant vision. (Consult Gr. Johnston in article " Orbit," of Cyclopsed. of Anat. and Physiol., Jacob in Dublin Med. Press, 1841 ; John S. Wells, in the Ophthalmic Hosp. Reports, vol. ii. 1859-60 ; Von Graefe, in Archiv ftir Ophthalmologic. vol. i. p. 1 ; and other works of that author, and of Alfred G-raefe, and other Ophthalmologists,, especially those on Strabismus. Also BLelmholtz in his Physiological Optics.) Fasciae of the Orbit. —The space within the orljit which is not occupied by the eyeball and its muscles, or other parts belonging to it, is completely filled wdth soft fat and delicate yielding connective tissue. In various places this last is condensed into layers of slender fascias of various degrees of strength. One layer of this structure forming the capsule of Tenon, surrounds the eyeball on every side except in front, where it is reflected on the inside of the conjunctiva and eyelids, and this layer is so loosely connected with the surrounding parts that it seems to serve all the purposes of a synovial membrane in the ball and socket-like disposition of the globe of the eye in its padding. The various muscles pierce this capsule at a shoi-t distance from the place of their insertion into the sclerotic. From the capsule of Tenon, septa of fascial connective tissue spread outwards mainly in the direction of the recti muscles, all of which receive delicate investments from the structure ; a layer also spreads between the muscles and the periosteal lining of the orbit. In two places these septa of fascia are of greater strength than elsewhere, viz., on the inside towards the lachrymal sac and eyelids, and on the outside towards the margin of the orbit, where it is united with the external ligament of the palpebral and the periosteum. In several jiarts of these fascial structures, more especially in those last men- tioned, plain or unstriped muscular fibres have been detected, and these, together with the elastic connective tissue are conceived to act in restoring the position of parts after the action of the voluntary muscles is over. These involimtary muscles are under the influence of the cervical sympathetic nerves. (See Henle's Anatomic d. Mensch., vol. ii., and Merckel in the Handbuch derGesammt. Augen- heilkimde, 1st part, 187-1: H. Miiller, Sitzungsb. d. Wiirtzburg. Gesellsch. 1858, and Turner, Nat. Hist. Eev., 1862 ; Cruveilhier, Traite d'Anatomie, &:c.) MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. The masseter, temporal, and tAvo pterygoid muscles form a group of muscles of m.astication, which may be properly considered together. The masseteric fascia is a continuation upwards of the deep fascia of the neck over the masseter muscle. It is firmly bound down to the outer surface of the muscle, and is attached superiorly to the zygoma. Posteriorly it closely invests the parotid gland {fascia imrotidea) ; it likewise sends upwards a process on the posterior and deep surfaces of the parotid gland; and a strong band of this process, the shjlo- maxillarij ligament, extending from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process, separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. The masseter is a thick quadrate muscle, whose fibres form two- portions differing in size and direction. The siq)erficial part, obliquely foursided in form, arises from the lower border of the malar bone in the anterior two-thirds of the zygomatic arch, chiefly by thick tendons