BONES OF THE HEAD. 78 first years of childhood the superior parts of the cranium grow more rapidly than the base. Thus, in the frontal region, the upper part of the frontal bone g-rows more rapidly than its orbital processes, giving- the prominent appearance of the frontal eminences peculiar to children. The face at birth scarcely reaches an eighth of the bulk of the rest of the head, while in the adult it is at least a half (Froriep. " Characteristik des Kopfes nach dem Entwicklungsgesetz desselben, 1845 '"). At the same time that the face increases in bulk, the lower part of the forehead is brought forward by elongation of the anterior cranial fossa, and on the approach of adult age, especially in the male, it becomes still more prominent by the expansion of the frontal sinuses. The face becomes elongated in the progress of growth, partly by increased height of the nasal fossa3 and adjacent air-sinuses, partly by the growth of the teeth and the enlargement of the alveolar arches of the jaws. In old age the propor- tion of the face to the cranium is diminished by the loss of the teeth and absorp- tion of the alveolar portions of the jaws. In consequence of this the upper jaw retreats, while in the lower jaw the same cause gives, especially when the mouth is closed, a greater seeming prominence to the chin. II. Sexual Differences.—The female skidl is, in general, smaller, lighter, and smoother than that of the male ; it is less marked by muscular prominences, and has also the frontal sinus less developed. The face is smaller in proportion to the cranium, the jaws narrower, and the frontal and occipital regions less capacious in proportion to the parietal. (Huschke.) The female skull resembles the young skull more than that of the adult male ; but it must also be admitted that it is often impossible to determine the sex by the appearance or form of a skull. III. National Differences.—That characteristic forms of skull are presented by the various races of men has probably been long known, but was first dis- tinctly pointed out by Camper. Subsequently the investigations of Blumenbach established the connection between the study of these forms and ethnology, which since his time has l^een maintained and greatly extended. The extent, nature and constancy, however, of the ethnical differences of skulls are subjects open to dis- cussion. But, although many skidls are to be met with which fail to exhibit the common characteristics of the race to which they belong, or which present pecu- liarities similar to those of nations considerably removed from them, yet, it must be admitted, that there are certain forms of skull highly distinctive of the principal varieties of mankind, and often even distinguishable in nations inhabiting countries not far removed from one another. Great differences occur with respect to size in the skulls of different nations. Among the smallest skulls may be mentioned those of the Hindoo, the ancient Peruvian, and the Bosjesman ; among the most mas- sive those of the Scandinavian, the Caffre, and the Maori. Various characters are found belonging to the skulls of rude tribes, which serve to distinguish them from those of civilised nations. Among those characters may be mentioned,—a depressed appearance between the middle line of the calvarium and the temporal ridges, both of which stand out prominently, making the roof of the skull seem like a house top ; a greater width of the zygomatic arches, and of the anterior nares ; greater length and strength of the jaws, together with projection forwards of the incisors, so that the teeth of the upper meet those of the lower jaw at an angle, instead of both sets being nearly perpendicular, as in cultivated nations. Elongation of the face downwards may be regarded as a specially human charac- teristic connected with the use of voice and speech, but projection of the jaws- foi-wards is only ad^vantageous for the seizure of food, and gives an appearance of approach to the still further projected form of the jaws in the lower animals, particularly when accompanied, as it often is, by deficient development and receding fonn of the chin. The average horizontal circumference of the British male cranium, taken one inch above the orbits, is about 21 inches, varying however frequently between 20 and 22 ; the antero-posterior diameter is about 71 inches, and the greatest transverse (parietal) diameter is about of inches. The average height of the skull from the plane of the foramen magnum to the vertex is about 5^ inches. The average capacity of the well-formed British male cranium may be stated at from 90 to 95 cubic inches, varying in extremes from about 70 to 120. That