TERINEAL MUSCLES IN THE FEMALE. of the urethra : these are continuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate, and are referred to in the description of that body. (Sec Structure of the Prostate.) Fig. 230. Fig. 230.—Posterior View OP thePubes AVITH PART OF THE BlADDER AND Urethra attached (from Santorini). ^ ], body ; 2, rami of tlie pubes ; 3, obturator internus muscle ; 5, portion of the fundus and neck of the bladder laid open ; 6, the prostate gland ; 7, trans- verse fibres of the compressor urethrro muscle, passing above the urethra; 8, similar fibres passing beneath that canal. Varicf'u'.s-.—A ]?uJjo-)nrfJt?-al muscle was describedby James Wilson (Medico- Chirurgical Trans.. London, vol. i. p. 17G), and is sometimes referred to as "Wilson's muscle, but lias not been re- cognised as a separate muscle by suc- ceeding anatomists. An unstriped 2}uho-vts'ical band has been described, descending from the back of the symphysis to the neck of the bladder (Luschka). Nerves.—The muscles of the urethra and penis are supplied by the inferior hajmorrhoidal branch of the pudic nerve ; the levator and sphincter ani by the inferior haimorrhoidal and by the fourth and fifth sacral and by the coccygeal nei*ves ; and the coccygeus muscle by the three last-named nerves. Actions.—The .y)Itinctn\s of the anus cause by their contraction occlusion of that aperture. The contraction of the external is usually maintained involun- tarily, though it may l^e rendered firmer by an act of the will; that of the internal is wholly involuntary. The levator ani and coecyricus elevate the lower part of the rectum and invert its anal border, after the protrusion and eversion which accompany defecation. The tran.sver.sl acting together draw backwards and fix the central point of the perinasum, thus assisting to give a base of support to the ejaculator muscle. The erector i}en is serves to compress the crus penis and thus assist in producing- or at least in maintaining the erection of the penis. The ejacnlator uriiuf compresses the bulb and the adjoining part of the cor^ms spongiosum of the urethra, so as to eject forcibly any fluid lodged m the canal. It comes into action near the end of the process of micturition, when its con- traction is mamly a voluntary act, and in the emission of the semen wdien it is involuntary. The eomtrictor nrethrce and the circvlitr involuntary muscles diminish the calibre of the urethra and expel its contents ; their fibres contract near the end of micturition, so as to assist the ejaculator in clearing the canal. B.—In the female. — In the female the anterior fibres of the levator ani embrace the vagina as they do the prostate in the male. The trans versus perinsei and the sphincter ani are arranged nearly in the same manner as in the male. The erector clitoridis differs from the erector penis of the male by its smaller size alone. The sphincter vaginae is attached behind to the central point of the perinfcura, in common-with the sphincter ani and transversus perintei muscles ; its fibres open out to surround the vaginal orifice and vesti- bule, closely embracing on the outer side the two bulbs of the vesti-