SHOET ROTATORS OF THE THIGH. 231 border the obturator vessels and nerve pass through the obturator foramen. The extra-pelvic portion lies between the genielli and in contact with the ischium and capsule of the hip joint. It is covered by the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the sciatic vessels and nerves, and by the gluteus maximus. The gemelli (gemini) are two small narrow muscles, consisting chiefly of fleshy fibres extended horizontally at each side of the tendon of the obturator internus ; and they are named from their position above and below the tendon. The gemellus suj[]erio)\ which is usually the smaller muscle, arises from the ischial spine ; the gemellus inferior takes origin from the upper and back part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Passing outwards, they join the tendon of the internal obturator muscle, covering and concealing it more or less, and along with it are inserted into the digital fossa of the trochanter. Some of their fibres, especially from the superior gemellus, run obliquely into the tendon of the obturator. Bdafion.s.—The superior gemellus is placed immediately below the pyi-iformis ; the inferior gemellus is above the quadratus femoris, and at its insertion is close to the tendon of the obturator externus muscle. These muscles may l)e regarded as portions of the obturator internus arising externally to the pelvis. Yarietk'.s.—The gemellus superior is often very small, and in some cases is altogether absent. The gemellus inferior has also been found absent, but more rarely than the upper muscle. The quadratus femoris muscle, of an oblong shape, arises from the external border of the tuber ischii, and, proceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted into the greater part of the linea ([uadraii on the posterior surface of the great trochanter of the femur. Hclations.—Superiorly this muscle is close to the inferior gemellus. Its inferior border is in contact, at its origin, with the descending fibres of the adductor magnus, and at its insei-tion with the superior or horizontal fibres. It conceals the outer part of the obturator externus, and also the lesser trochanter, v>diich is separated from it by a small bursa. Yar'ictU'x.—It may be entirely absent and replaced by an enlarged gemellus inferior. The obturator externus muscle arises from the outer surface of the anterior two-thirds of the obturator membrane, from the outer surface of the body of the pubis, and from the rami of the pubis and ischium ; its fibres extend horizontally outwards and backwards, con- verging to a tendon which is directed along the groove betw^een the acetabulum and the tuberosity of the ischium, in contact at the same time with the under and hinder surfaces of the neck of the femur to be inserted into the trochanteric fossa below the obturator internus and gemelli. Bdatlorn.—The deep surface of the muscle is in contact with the obturator membrane, while the obturator vessels and nerves pass over its upper border. Its anterior surface is covered by the upper borders of the pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus ; in the groove beneath the acetabulum it is in contact with the lower and posterior parts of the capsule of the femui-, and close to its insertion it is concealed by the quadi-atus femoris. Nerves.—The gluteus maximus is mainly supplied by the small sciatic nei-ve, but also receives at its upper part a separate branch from the sacral plexus. The gluteus medius and minimus are supplied by the gluteal nerve. The pyriformis, gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris receive special branches from the sacral plexus. The obtui-ator externus is supplied by the obturator nerve.