444 BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The two terminal branches of the obturator artery communicate with each other near the lower margin of the obturator ligament, and anastomose with branches of the internal circumflex artery. The external branch also communi- cates with offsets from the sciatic artery near the tuber ischii. Varieties.—The obturator artery frequently has its origin transferred to the commencement of the epigastric artery, and sometimes to the external iliac at its termination. In 361 cases observed by R. Quain, the origin of the obturator artery varied as follows. In the proportion of 2 cases out of 3, it arose from the internal iliac: in 1 case out of 3^, from the epigastric: in a very small number of cases (about 1 in 72), it arose by two roots from both the above-named vessels ; and in about the same proportion, from the external iliac artery. Sometimes the obturator artery arises from the epigastric on both sides of the same body, but in the majority of instances, this mode of origin of the vessel is met with only on one side. Wlien the obturator artery arises from the epigastric, it turns backwards into the pelvis to reach the canal at the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and in this course it is necessarily close to the crural ring, the opening situated at the inner side of the external iliac vein, through which hernial protrusions descend from the abdomen into the thigh. In the greater number of instances the artery springs from near the root of the epigastric, and is directed backwards close to the iliac vein, and therefore lies to the outer side of the femoral ring ; but in other instances, arising from the epigastric artery* higher up, it occasionally crosses over the ring, and curves to its inner side. It is when it takes this last com-se that the obturator artery is liable to be wounded in the operation for dividing the stricture in a femoral hernia. The anastomosis which normally exists between the obturator arterj'- and the epigastric explains the nature of the change which takes place when the origin of the obturator artery is transferred from the one place to the other. In such cases one of the anastomosing vessels may be supposed to have become enlarged, and the posterior or proper root of the obturator artery to have remained unde- veloped or to have been obliterated in a proportionate degree. The internal pudic artery is a branch of considerable size (smaller in the female than in the male), which is distributed to the external generative organs. The following description of this artery has refer- ence to its arrangement in the male; its distribution in the female will be noticed separately. The pudic artery arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, sometimes by a trunk common to it and the sciatic arterj^ Pro- ceeding downwards, it emerges from the pelvis along with the sciatic artery, through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and continuing in a uniformly curved course, it re-enters the pelvis by the small sacro- sciatic foramen, immediately below the ischial spine, and passes forward on the inner side of the tuber ischii, in the substance of the obturator fascia. Distant at first from the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity an inch or an inch and a half, it approaches the surface at the inner margin of the pubic arch, and lies subjacent to the triangular ligament or superficial layer of the subpubic fascia. Finally, piercing this fascia, it divides below the subpubic arch into the dorsal artery of the penis and the artery of the corpus cavernosum. In the first part of its course, Avhilst within the pelvis, the pudic artery lies to the outer side of the rectum, and in front of the pyri- formis muscle and the sacral nerves. Thence onwards it is accompanied by the pudic nerve and vein. On the ischial spine it is covered by the gluteus maximus muscle close to its origin. In the obturator fascia it