623 CUTANEOUS DISTRIBUTION OF THE NERVES. front and sides of tlie neck, and the upper part of the shoulder and breast. The area of ilie anterior divisions of the dorsal and first limMr nerves meets superiorly "with that of the cervical plexus, and posteriorly with that of the posterior divisions of dorsal and lumbar nerves. It passes down over the haunch and along by the outer part of Poupart's ligament, and includes part of the scrotum and a small portion of the integument of the thigh internal to the saphenous opening. The iierintmm and ycnis are supplied by the pudic nerve; the scrotum by branches of the pudic, inferior pudendal, and ilio-inguinal nerves. 3. In the Upper limb.—The shoulder, supplied superiorly by the cervical plexus, receives its cutaneous nerves inferiorly as far as the insertion of the deltoid from the circumflex nerve. The arm internally is supplied by the intercosto-humeral nerve and the nerve of "VYrisberg. The inner and anterior part is supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve ; and the posterior and outer part by the internal and external branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. The forearm, anteriorly and on the outer side, is supplied by the external cutaneous ; on its outer and posterior aspect, superiorly by the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral, and inferiorly by the radial branch of the same nerve. On the inner side, both in front and behind, is the internal cutaneous nerve, and inferiorly are branches of the ulnar. On the lach of the hand are the radial and ulnar nerves, the radial supplying about three fingers and a half or less, and the ulnar one and a half or more. On the front of the hand, the median nerve supplies three fingers and a half, and the ulnar one and a half. In the ^lalm is a branch of the median given olf above the wrist. On the lall of the tlmml) are branches of the musculo-cutaneous, median, and radial nerves. 4. In the Lower limb.—The Mitoclc is supplied from above by the cutaneous branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves, with the ilio-hypogastric and lateral branches of the last dorsal nerves ; internally by the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves ; externally by the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve proceeding from the front ; and inferiorly by branches of the small sciatic nerve proceed- ing from below. The thigh is supplied externally by the external cutaneous nerve ; posteriorly, and in the upper half of its inner aspect, by the small sciatic ; anteriorly, and in the lower [half of the inner aspect, by the middle and internal cutaneous. The leg is supplied posteriorly by the small sciatic and short saphenous nerves ; internally by the long saphenous and branches of the internal cutaneous of the thigh ; and outside and in front by cuta- neous branches of the external popliteal nerve and by its musculo- cutaneous branch. On the dorsum of tlie foot are the branches of the musculo-cutaneous, supplying all the toes with the exception of the adjacent sides of the first and second, which are supplied by the anterior tibial, and the outer side of the little toe, which, with the outer side of the foot, is supplied by the short saphenous nerve. The long saphenous is the cutaneous nerve on the inner side of the foot.