THE ABSOEBENT VESSELS. 512 left lateral ligament pierce the diaphragm, and, turning forwards, end in the anterior glands of the mediastinum. 4. Finally, along the fore part of the liver some vessels will be observed to turn downwards and join those placed upon the under surface. The tmder surface of the liver is covered by an open network of lym- phatic vessels. On the right lobe they are directed over and under the gall-bladder to the transverse fissure, where some join the deep lym- phatics ; whilst others, passing through some scattered lymphatic glands, are guided by the hepatic artery to the right side of the aorta, where they terminate in the thoracic duct. Branches also proceed to the concave border of the stomach, between the folds of the small omentum, to join with the coronary lymphatics of that organ. The deep lymphatics of the liver accompany the branches of the portal vein in the substance of the organ, and pass out of the gland by the transverse fissure. After communicating with the superficial lym- phatics, and also with those of the stomach, they pass backwards, and join, at the side of the coeliac artery, with one of the large lacteal trunks previously to its termination in the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the kidney likewise consist of a deep and a super- ficial set. Those placed upon the surface of the organ are compara- tively small; they unite at the hilus of the kidney with other lym- phatics from the substance of the gland, and then pass inwards to the lumbar lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the suprarenal capsules unite with those of the kidney. The lymphatic vessels of the ureter are numerous ; they communicate with those of the kidney and bladder, and for the most part terminate by union with the former. The lymphatics of the bladder, taking rise from the entire surface of that organ, enter the glands placed near the internal iliac artery ; with these are associated the lymphatics of the prostate gland and vesiculge seminales. The lymphatics of the uterus, in the unimpregnated state of the organ, are small, but during the period of gestation they are greatly enlarged. Issuing from the entire substance of the uterus, the greater number descend, together with those of the vagina, and pass backwards to enter the glands upon the internal iliac artery ; thus following the course of the principal uterine blood-vessels. Others, proceeding from the upper end of the uterus, run outwards in the folds of peritoneum which constitute the broad ligaments, and join the lymphatics derived from the ovaries and Fallopian tubes. The conjoined vessels then ascend with the ovarian arteries, near the origin of which they terminate in the lymphatic vessels and glands placed on the aorta and vena cava. The lymphatics of the testicle commence in the substance of the gland, and upon the surface of the tunica vaginalis. Collected into several large trunks, they ascend with the other constituents of the spermatic cord, pass through the inguinal canal, and accompany the spermatic vessels in the abdomen to enter some of the lumbar lym- phatic glands. LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. The lymphatic glands of the thorax.—Along the course of the internal mammary blood-vessels there are placed six or seven small glands, through which pass the lymphatics situated behind the sternum,-