Pig. 271,—Arteries of the Outer and Back 415 Fig. 271. BRANCHES OF THE RADIAL ARTERY. Part op the Arm and Hand, Superficial View (from Tiedemann). | a, deltoid muscle ; external humeral head of triceps ; c, biceps brachii ; d, brachials anticus ; c, supinator longus ; /, extensor carin radialis longior ; g, brevior; h, extensor communis digi- toruui and extensor minimi digiti; i, extensor carpi ulnaris ; Ic, anconeus ; I, flexor carpi ulnaris ; m, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; n, extensor inimi internodii pollicis ; o, tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; 1, 1, branches of superior profunda artery appearing between the triceps and brachialis anticus, and descending on the outer supracondylar eminence to anastomose with the branches of the recurrent radial artery ; 2, above the posterior annular ligament points to the posterior carpal branch of the anterior inter- osseous artery; 3, posterior carpal branch of the •ulnar artery ; 4, radial artery taking its course be- tween the outer lateral ligament of the wrist-joint and the tendons of the extensor ■ muscles before passing near 5, between the two heads of the abductor indicis : beneath the extensor tendons is seen the posterior carpal arch, giving the third and fourth dorsal interosseous arteries ; 6, the inner dorsal artery of the thumb ; 7, the outer dorsal artery of the index finger, and between 7, and 1', the remaining dorsal digital vessels in the spaces between the heads of the metacarpal bones, near their communications with the palmar digital vessels. BnAi^CHES.—The branches of the ra- dial artery may be arranged according as they are given off in the fore-arm, on the wrist, and in the hand. A. The branches which arise from the radial in the fore-arm are the radial recurrent, the muscular branches, the anterior carpal, and the superficial volar. The radial recurrent artery, which varies much in size, arches upwards from the radial soon after its origin, running between the branches of the musculo- spiral nerve. It first lies on the supi- nator brevis, and then on the brachialis anticus, being covered by the supinator longus. In front of the outer condyle, and in the interval between the two last muscles, it anastomoses with the termi- nal branches of the superior profunda. From the lower or convex side of this ar- tery are given off several branches ; one, of considerable size, to the supinator and exten- sor muscles, and some beneath the latter to anastomose with the posterior interosseous ■branches. It also supplies the supinator brevis, and brachialis anticus in part.