VARIETIES OF THE ANTEIlIOIl TIBIAL ARTElir. 471 branches. Moreover, from the outermost of these interosseous arteries a small branch is given off, which gains the outer border of the little toe, and forms its external collateral branch. These arteries communicate with the plantar arch opposite the fore part of the interosseous spaces, by means of the anterior in'vfovatbig branches, and at the back part of the interosseous spaces, by the 'jl)o^tcrior jjcrforating branches. {c) The dorsal artery of the great toe (dorsalis hallucis) is con- tinued forwards from the dorsal artery of the foot at the point where it dips down to the sole. This branch runs along the outer surface of the first metatarsal bone, and furnishes the small dorsal digital vessels of the great toe and adjacent side of the second toe. {d) The plantar digital branch of the first space is given off from the dorsal artery between the heads of the first interosseous muscle, near the inosculation with the plantar arch, and passing for- wards divides into two smaller branches which proceed along the con- tiguous sides of the first and second toe. (e) The plantar digital branch for the inner side of the great toe crosses beneath the first metatarsal bone, and runs along the inner side of the great toe on its plantar surface. Varieties of the Anterior Tibial Axtery.—-Origifi.—In cases of early division of the popliteal artery, the place of origin of the anterior tibial is necessarily higher up than usual, being sometimes found as high as the bend of the knee- joint. In some of these cases (the posterior tibial artery being small or wanting), the anterior tibial is conjoined with the peroneal artery. When the anterior tibial arises higher than usual, the additional upper part of the vessel has been seen resting on the posterior surface of the popliteus muscle, and it has been likewise found between that muscle and the bone. Coarse.—The anterior tibial artery, having its usual place of origin, has been found to deviate outwards towards the margin of the fibula in its course along the front of the leg, and then to return to its ordinary position beneath the annular ligament in front of the ankle-joint. This artery has been also noticed by Pelletan and by Velpeau to approach the surface at the middle of the leg, and to <3ontinue downwards from that point, covered only by the fascia and integument. Velpeau states that he found the artery to reach the fore part of the leg by passing round the outer side of the fibula. (Pelletan, " Clinique Chirurgicale,'' &c., p. 101 : Paris, 1810.' Velpeau," Nouveaux Elemens de Medecine Operatoire," &c., t. i., pp. 137 and 637 : Paris, 1837.) She.—This vessel more frequently undergoes a diminution than an increase of size. It may be defective in various degrees. Thus the dorsal branch of the foot may fail to give off digital branches to the great and second toes, which may be then derived from the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial. In a farther degree of diminution the anterior tibial ends in front of the ankle or at the lower part of the leg ; its place being then taken by the anterior division of the peroneal artery, which supplies the dorsal artery of the foot; the two vessels (anterior tibial and anterior peroneal) being either connected together or separate. Two cases are mentioned by Allan Bums, in which the anterior tibial artery was altogether wanting, its place in the leg being supplied by perforating branches from the posterior tibial artery, and on the dorsum of the foot by the anterior peroneal artery. The dorsal artery of the foot is occasionally larger than usual; in that case compensating for a defective condition of the internal plantar branch from the posterior tibial artery. This artery has been repeatedly found to be curved outwards between its com- mencement at the lower border of the annular ligament and its termination in the first interosseous space.