UPPER DORSAL NERYES. 595 posterior interosseous division distributes nerves to the remaining muscles on the outer and back part of the forearm, except the anconeus (previously supplied), viz., to the short supinator and the extensors. Cutaneous nerves are distributed, from the trunk of the nen^e and its radial division, to the lower part of the upper arm, to the forearm, and to the hand—on the posterior and outer aspect of each. Varieties.—Tlie dorsal branch of the radial nerve sometimes supplies the whole of the back of the hand and fingers. In a single case recorded by Turner the posterior interosseous did not form the so-called ganglion behind the carpus, but passed down to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers. DORSAL NERVES. These nerves are twelve in number, and, with the exception of the larger part of the first of them, which joins the brachial plexus, they are distributed to the walls of the thorax and abdomen. Eleven of the nerves so distributed are termed intercostal, and the twelfth is situated below the last rib. The cords connecting them with the sympathetic nerve, placed close to the vertebrae, are very short. The anterior divisions of these nerves pass separately to their destina- tion, without forming any plexus by the connection or interlacement of their fibres, and in this respect they differ from those of the other spinal nerves. From the intervertebral foramina they are directed transversely across the trunk, and nearly parallel one to another. The upper six nerves, with the exception of the first, are confined to the parietes of the thorax ; while the lower six nerves are continued from the intercostal spaces to the muscles and integument of the anterior wall of the abdomen. FIRST DORSAL NERVE. The greater part of the anterior division of this nerve ascends over the neck of the first rib and the first intercostal artery to enter into the brachial plexus. The remaining portion of the nerve is continued as the first intercostal, a small branch which courses along the first inter- costal space, in the manner of the other intercostal nerves, but has usually no lateral cutaneous branch, and may also want the anterior cutaneous. UPPER OR PECTORAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. In their course to the fore part of the chest, these nerves accompany the intercostal blood-vessels. After a short space they pass between the internal and external intercostal muscles, supplying them with twigs, and, about midway between the vertebrae and the sternum, give ofi the lateral cutaneous branches. The nerves, greatly diminished, are now continued forwards amid the fibres of the internal intercostal muscles as far as the costal cartilages, where they come into contact with the pleura. In approaching the sternum, they cross the internal mammary artery and the fibres of the triangularis sterni muscle. Finally, these nerves pierce the internal intercostal muscle and the Q Q 2