MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 318 of the rectus muscle. The deficiency thus resulting in the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus muscle is marked superiorly by a well- defined lunated edge, whose concavity looks downwards towards the pubis—the semilimar fold of Douglas. Ih'latlojis.—The internal oblique Fig. 224. muscle is almost entirely covered by the external oblique. A small angular poi-tion only near the place where its posterior fibres take their origin, under cover of the latissi- mus dorsi, is exposed between that muscle and the external ob- lique, and even this is not con- stantly found. Fig. 224.—Lateral View of the Muscles op the Abdojien and Trunk, the Internal Oblique Muscle having been exposed by the removal of the external Oblique (modified from Henle). (A. T.) i a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; h, trochanter major; c, spine of pubes ; d, lumbar fascia; YI to XII, the sixth to the twelfth ribs; 1, lower part of the great pec- toral muscle, where it is attached to the external oblique muscle; 2, 2, lower digitations of the serratus mag- nus from tlie fourth to the eighth ribs ; 3, lower costal attachments of the latissimns dorsi; 3', its iliac attach- ment ; 4, trapezius ; 5, divided attach- ments of the external oblique, left in connection with the ribs ; 5, aponeu- rosis of the external oblique divided in front of the rectus, where it joins the sheath; 6, internal oblique at its middle ; 6', 6', line where it divides to form the sheath of the rectus ; + + + XII, its attachment to the four lowest ribs; 6", the conjoined tendon, and above, and to the out- side, the internal inguinal aperture ; 7, sai-torius ; 8, rectus femoris; 9, tensor vagina femoris ; 10, gluteus medius ; 11, gluteus maximus. Varieties.—A fibrous inscription is frequently seen in the upper pai-t of this muscle prolonged for- ward from the point of the tenth rib, and a slender cartilaginous slip perfectly separate from that of the rib has been seen lying in this inscription. (Henle.) An inscription opposite the eleventh rib is described by Macalister. The cremaster, a muscle peculiar to the male, consists of fibres lying in series with those of the lower border of the internal oblique muscle. It presents an external and an internal attachment. The external attachment is to the inner end of Poupart's ligament, and there its fibres are continuous with those of the internal oblique muscle ;