CERVICAL VERTEBRiE. 11 The lamincB are long and flat. The superior notches are deeper than the inferior. The spinous iwocoss is short, horizontal, or only slightly depressed, and bifid ; that of the seventh, however, is longer than the others, and terminates in a tubercle, which is readily felt below the skin, hence the name vertelra promiiiens, applied to this vertebra. The lateral parts usually called transverse processes are short and bifid, presenting thus at their extremities two tubercles, anterior and posterior, which are named respectively by Owen, parapophysis and diapophijsis. Each process is deeply grooved superiorly for the spinal nerves, and at its base is perforated vertically by a round foramen, through which in the upper six the vertebral artery and vein pass. It is united with the rest of the vertebra by two parts ; by the posterior, at the place of junction of pedicle and lamina, like a dorsal transverse pro- cess ; by the anterior, to the body of the vertebra, in the same line with the heads of the ribs. The transverse process of the seventh vertebra is large but not bifid, and only slightly grooved. The articular processes are large and flat. Their articular surfaces are oblique, the superior, looking backwards, upwards and slightly inwards ; the inferior forwards, downwards and slightly outwards. The foramen is triangular and larger than in the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae. The first Cervical Vertebra, or Atlas, dififers remarkably from the others, by the absence of a body and spinous process, having the form merely of a large ring with articular and transverse processes. Fig.6—Atlas Vertebra, from above.(A.T.) 1, the anterior arch, witli a tubercle in front; 4, the posterior part of the ring, with 5, an indication of a spinous tubercle ; 4', the anterior part of the ring, containing the odon- toid process, and indicating in front of 4' the smooth surface on which the process moves in rotation ; t3, the transverse process with a slight indication of division into two tubercles ; 7, the condylar articular process; + inside it indicates the rounded tubercle to which the transverse ligament is attached ; a, the foramen in the transverse pi-ocess ; h, the groove on the posterior arch for the vertebral artery. Fig. 6. The interior of the ring is wider posteriorly than anteriorly. Its posterior part corresponds to the foramina of the other vertebrae ; its narrower anterior part is occupied by the odontoid process of the axis, and in the recent state is separated from the posterior by the transverse ligament. In front of the ring is the anterior arch, on the anterior aspect of which is a small tubercle, and on the posterior a smooth surface for articulation with the odontoid process. At the sides of the ring are the lateral masses, which are thick and strong, bearing the articular processes superiorly and inferiorly, and extending outwards into the transverse processes. The articular processes diff'er from those of other vertebrae in being situated in front of the places of exit of the nerves. The superior are oval, converging in front, with cartilaginous surfaces concave from before backwards, and looking upwards and inwards. At the inner margin of each is a smooth rounded tubercle, to which the transverse ligament is attached. The inferior articular