440 BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. an inch, in length.. An instance has been observed in which this vessel was absent, and its branches were derived from a bend of the external iliac artery down into the pelvis (Preparation in Univ. Coll, Mus., London). The lengths of the common iliac and internal iliac arteries heax an inverse proportion to each other—the internal iliac being long when the common iliac is short, and rice versa. Moreover, when the common iliac is short, the internal iliac (arising- higher than nsual) is placed for some distance above the brim of the pelvis, and descends by the side of the external iliac to reach that cavity. The 2)lace of division of the internal iliac into its branches varies between the upper margin of the sacrum and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. Branches.—Sometimes all the branches of the internal iliac artery arise without the previous separation of that vessel into two portions. In more than a fourth of R. Quain's cases a branch, corresponding usually to the ilio-lumbar artery, arose before the subdivision of the main trunk. Hypograstric Artery. —thefa'tns, the internal iliac artery, retaining almost the full size of the common iliac, curves forwards from that artery to the side of the urinary bladder, and ascends on the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. There the vessels of opposite sides come into contact with one another, and with the umbilical vein, and coiling spirally round that vein in the umbilical cord, they proceed to the placenta. To that part of the artery which is placed within the abdomen, the term Jiijjwf/asfric is applied ; the remaining portion, j)assing onwards through the umbilicus to the placenta, being the proper uvihiUcal artery. After the cessation of the placental circulation at birth, the two hypogastric arteries become impervious from the side of the bladder upwards to the umbilicus, and are converted into fibrous cords. These two cords, being shoi-ter than the part of the peritoneum on which they rest, cause a fold of the serous membrane to project inwards ; and thus are formed two fossas (external and internal fossae of the peritoneum) on each side of the abdomen, in one or other of which the projection of a direct inguinal hernia takes place. The part of the artery intervening between its origin and the side of the bladder remains pervious, although proportionally much reduced in size, and forms the trunk of the superior vesical artery. BEANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The superior vesical artery is, at its commencement, that part of the hypogastric artery in the foetus which remains pervious after the changes that take place subsequently to birth. Jt extends from the anterior division of the internal iliac to the side of the bladder. Brandies.—(«) It distributes numerous branches to the upper part and sides of the bladder. (Jf) The artery of the vas deferens, arising from one of the lowest of these, is a slender artery which reaches the vas deferens, and accompanies that duct in its com-se through the spermatic cord to the back of the testicle, where it anasto- moses with the spermatic artery. (c) Other small branches ramify on the lower end of the ureter. The inferior vesical artery (vesico-prostatic), derived usually from the anterior division of the internal iliac, is directed downwards to the lower part of the bladder, where it ends in branches which are distri- buted to the base of the bladder, to the side of the prostate, and to the vesiculae seminales. One offset, to be presently described, descends upon the rectum. The branches upon the prostate communicate more or less freely upon that body with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, and, according to Haller, witii the perineal arteries. Small twigs of this vessel also run towards the subpubic arch, and in instances