THE INNOMINATE BONE. 103 rough crest, terminating in the projecting sjmie. The descending ramus is flat fcom before backwards; the superior or ascending ramus becomes prismatic, and increases in thickness as it passes upwards and outwards, and between its posterior and superior surfaces there is prolonged outwards from the spine a ridge which is the pubic portion of the illo-iied 'meal line. The surface in front of this line is covered by the pectineus muscle ; the inferior surface of the ramus presents a deep groove for the obturator vessels and nerve directed from behind forwards and inwards. On the superior surface above the aceta- bulum there is a slight elevation, the iUo-imtineal eminence, marking the place of junction of the os pubis and ilium. The ischium forms the posterior and inferior part of the os innomi- natum, and bounds the obturator foramen in the lower half of its extent. Superiorly it forms about two-fifths of the acetabulum, infe- riorly it is enlarged in a thick projection, the tuberosity, and this part, diminishing in size, is continued forwards into the ramus. On its posterior border, behind the acetabulum, a sharp process, the spine, projecting with an inclination inwards, forms the inferior limit of the great sciatic notch, and is separated from the tuberosity by a short interval, the small sciatic notch, against the smooth margin of which glides the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. In front of this, on the external surface, a horizontal groove, occupied by the tendon of the obturatur externus muscle, lies between the inferior margin of the acetabulum and the tuberosity. The tuberosity, which is the part on which the body rests in the sitting posture, presents a rough surface continuous with the internal margin of the ramus, and on which may be distinguished four impressions, viz., on its upper and broad part two slight hollows, which are placed side by side, the external corresponding to the attachment of the semimembranosus muscle, and the internal to the conjoined origin of the biceps and semitendinosus ; and inferiorly two elongated rough elevations, likewise side by side, the external giving attachment to the adductor magnus muscle, and the internal to the great sacro-sciatic ligament : there is likewise along the outer margin a rough elevated line, marking the place of origin of the quadi-atus femoris muscle. The ramus of the ischium is flattened like the descending ramus of the pubis, with which it is continuous on the inner side of the obturator foramen. The acetalulum is a cotyloid or cup-shaped cavity, looking outwards, downwards, and forwards, and surrounded in the greater part of its circumference by an elevated margin, which is most prominent at the posterior and upper part; while at the opposite side, close to the obturator foramen, it is deficient, forming the notch or incisura. Its lateral and upper parts present a broad bent ribbon-like smooth surface, which articulates with the head of the femur, and in the recent state is coated with cartilage, but the lower part of the cup and the region of the notch are depressed below the level of the articular surface, lodge a mass of fat, and have no cartilaginous coating. Rather more than two-fifths of the acetabulum are formed from the ischium, less than two-fifths from the ilium, and the remainder from the os pubis. The iliac portion of the articular surface is the largest, the pubic the smallest : the non-articular surface belongs chiefly to the ischium. The oUurator or thyroid foramen, also called foramen ovcde, is internal and inferior to the acetabulum. In the male it is nearly oval, with the