THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY XERYE. 643 temporal fossa, beneath the temporal muscle in the substance of which they are distributed. (See fig. 340.)_ The anterior branch is frequently joined with the buccal nerve, and sometimes with the other deep temporal branch. The masseteric Iranch likewise passes above the external pterygoid muscle, and is directed nearly liorizontally outwards, through the sig- moid notch of the lower jaw to the posterior border of the masseter muscle, which it enters on the deep suiface. It gives a filament or two to the articulation of the jaw, and occasionally furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle. The external pterygoid Trranch, is most frequently derived from the buccal nerve. It is sometimes a separate offset from the smaller portion of the lower maxillary nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle is closely connected at its origin with the otic ganglion, and enters the inner or deep surface of the muscle. The buccal nerve pierces the substance of the external pterygoid muscle, and courses downwards and forwards to the face, in close contact with the deep surface of the temporal muscle at its insertion. It fur- nishes a branch to the external pterygoid muscle as it pierces it, and on emerging gives two or three ascending branches to the temporal muscle. It divides into two principal branches, an u2Jper and a lower, which communicate with the facial nerve in a plexus round the facial vein, and are distributed to the integument, the buccinator muscle, and the mucous membrane. It is chiefly a sensory nerve. Varieties.—The buccal nerve is sometimes replaced by a branch of the infra- orbital (Henle). It has been seen to arise as a branch of the inferior dental, being given off from that nerve within the dental canal, and emerging close to the alveolar border of the bone (Turner, Nat, Hist. Review, 1864, p. 612). GaUlet (quoted by Henle) describes it as arising directly from the Gasserian ganglion, and piercing the base of the skull by a special foramen between the round and oval foramina. Auriculo-temporal nerve.—The auriculo-temporal nerve takes its origin close to the foramen ovale. It often commences by two roots, between which may be placed the middle meningeal artery. It is directed at first backwards, beneath the external pterygoid muscle, to the inner side of the articulation of the jaw ; then changing its course, it turns upwards between the ear and the joint, covered by the parotid gland ; and emerging from this place, it finally divides into two temporal branches which ascend towards the top of the head. (a) Commnmcating IrancTies.—There are commonly two branches which pass forward round the external carotid artery, and join the facial nerve. Filaments to the otic ganglion arise near the beginning of the nerve. (h) Parotid Iranclics are given from the nerve while it is covered by the gland. (J) Auricular branches.—These are two in number. The louver of the two, arising behind the articulation of the jaw, distributes branches to the ear below iihe external meatus ; and sends other filaments round the internal maxillary artery to join the sympathetic nerve ; the upper branch., leaving the nerve in. front of the ear, is distributed in the integument covering the tragus and the pinna above the external auditory meatus. Both are confined to the outer surface of the ear. (d) Brandies to the meatus auditor}us.—These, two in number, spring from the point of connection of the facial and auriculo-temporal nerves, and enter the interior of the auditoiy meatus between the osseous and cartilaginous parts. One of them sends a branch to the membrana tympani.