VASTUS INTERXUS MUSCLES. 230 to the base of the great trochanter in front, and to a ridge on its outer side ; to tlie line extending from the great trochanter to the line a aspera and to the outer border of the linea aspera itself in its upper half; the aponeurosis being prolonged on the outer surface of the muscle, also gives origin to numerous muscular fibres. The muscle forms a somewhat rhomboidal mass of considerable thickness, and descends obliquely in- wards and forwards on the outer surface of the vastus internus to be inserted by a broad flat tendon into the tendon of the rectus muscle and the patella. lii'laf iom.—This muscle forms the larg-e mass on the outer and upper part of the thigh. Its deep surface rests on the vastus intemus : its outer surface is covered by the fascia lata and by the aponeurotic insertions of the gluteus maximus and tensor vagina3 femoris. Anteriorly it is in contact with the rectus femoris and external circumflex arteries. c and d. The muscles usually described as vastus internus and crureus are inseparably united and form the inner or deep head of the common extensor. The fibres of this head may, however, be easily separated into a superficial and a deep set. The superficial fibres form a continuous lamina or mantle (Henle) arching over the front and both sides of the shaft of the femur, and completely enclosing the deeper fibres which are only seen on cutting through the mantle. These fibres of the mantle descend in dift'erent directions, the middle or anterior fibres, while arching forwards being nearly parallel to the femur, and the lateral fibres being more oblique ; this obliquity increases towards the lower part of the muscle, where the fibres are nearly horizontal. The anterior fibres arise from the middle of the anterior intertrochanteric line ; the inner lateral fibres arise from the line running from the anterior intertrochanteric line in front of the small trochanter to join the inner line leading to the linea aspera, from the lower half of that inner line, from the inner lip of the linea aspera, and from the internal intermuscular septum. The line of origin of the outer lateral fibres runs from the ante- rior intertrochanteric line obliquely across the front of, and down the outer surface of the shaft of the femur, immediately in front of, and closely connected with the origin of the vastus externus. The lower lateral fibres on the outside of the limb reach consider- ably beyond the lower border of the vastus externus, taking origin from the outer lip of the linea aspera and from the external intermuscular septum. From this extensive origin the fibres converge to the under surface and margins of a flat tendon which runs upwards for the most part on the surface of the anterior fibres. This tendon becomes in- corporated inferiorly with the tendons of the rectus femoris and vastus externus, and so becomes attached to the upper and lateral margins of the patella. Many of the lowest lateral fibres on both sides are also attached directly to the sides of the patella and to the fascia lata at the sides of the knee-joint. The deep set of fibres, for wdiich the name of crureus may be still retained, arises from the anterior aspect only of the shaft of the femur for about its middle two-thirds, the upper part of the origin being separated by a slight interval from the origin of the superficial fibres, and the lower part reaching to within three inches of the patellar surface. These fibres pass obliquely downwards and forwards to be