BKANCHES OF EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 452 The epigastric artery is accompanied by two veins, which unite into a single trunk before ending in the external iliac vein. In its course upwards from Poupart's ligam^ent to the rectus muscle^ the artery passes close to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring • and the vas deferens, entering through the ring, turns behind the artery in descending into the pelvis. Branches.—These are smaU but numerous. {a) The cremasteric artery, a slender branch, accompanies the spermatic cord,, and, supplying- the cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anasto- moses with the spermatic artery. Qt) ^eYeral mnscvla)- branches arise from each side of the epigastric artery,, ramify in the rectus muscle, and communicate with the branches of the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries. (<?) Svj^ei'ficial branches perforate the abdominal muscles, and join beneath the skin with branches of the superficial epigastric artery. (d,) The puhic is a small branch, which ramifies behind the pubes, and commu- nicates by means of one or more descending twigs with a similar branch from the obturator artery. Fig. 290.—View of the relation of THE Vessels op the Groin to a. Femoral Hernia, &c. (from R. Quain). In the upper part of the figure a portion of the flat muscles of the abdomen has been removed, displaying in i3art the transversalis fascia and peritoneum ; in the lower the fascia lata of the thigh is in part removed and the sheath of the femoral vessels opened. a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; h, aponemosis of the ex- ternal oblicpxe muscle ; e, the perito- neum and fascia transversalis ; d, the iliac portion of the fascia lata near the saxjhenic opening ; e, sac of a femoral hernia opened ; 1, femoral artery ; 2, femoral vein at the place where it is joined by the saphena vein ; 3, deep epigastric artery and vein ; -f-, j)laced upon the upper part of the femoral vein close below the common trunk of the epigastric and an aberrant obtu- rator artery ; the latter artery is seen in this case to pass close to the veiiii between it and the neck of the hernial tumour. 2. The deep circumflex iliac artery, smaller than the preceding vessel, arises from the outer side of the iliac artery near Poupart's liga- ment, and is directed outw'ards behind that band to the anterior supe- rior iliac spine. Following thence the crest of the hip-bone, the artery gives branches to the iliacus and abdominal muscles, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. In its course outwards, this artery lies in front of the transversalis fascia, at the junction of this with the fascia iliaca. Two veins accompany the circumflex iliac artery ; these unite below