567 THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERYE. Connecting" branches.—Connection n'ifh the j>n/'vmogaf;iric.—Close to the skull the hypog-lossal nerve is connected with the second g-angiion of the pneumo- g-astric by separate filaments, or in some instances the two nerves are united so as to form one mass. T^nion )vith the syvqxifkctw and Jii'ftt fn-o spinal nerves.—Opposite the first cervical vertebra the nerve communicates by several twigs with the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop uniting the first two spinal nerves in front of the atlas. Descending branch of the ninth nerve.—This branch (r. de- scendens noni) leaves the ninth nerve where this turns ronnd the occi- pital artery, or, sometimes, higher up. It passes downwards on the sur- face of the sheath of the carotid vessels, gradually crossing from the outer to the inner side, gives a branch to the anterior belly of the omo- hyoid muscle, and joins about the middle of the neck in a loop with one or two branches from the second and third cervical nerves, forming the ansa liy])Ofjlossi. The concavity of this loop is turned upwards ; and the connection between the nerves is effected by means of two or more interlacing filaments, which enclose an irregularly shaped space. From this interlacement of the nerves, filaments are continued backwards to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and downwards to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Occasionally a filament is continued to the chest, where it joins the cardiac and phrenic nerves. Muscular branches.—The branch to the thyro-hyoid muscle is a * separate twig given off from the hypoglossal nerve as it approaches the hyoid bone. The nerve supplies branches to the hyo-glossus, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles as it becomes contiguous to each, and, when arrived close to the middle of the tongue in company with the ranine artery, gives off several long slender branches, which pass upwards into the substance of the organ. Some filaments join with others proceeding from the gustatory nerve. Varieties.—In animals the ninth nerve not unfrequently possesses a posterior root furnished with a ganglion, in the same manner as that of a spinal nerve. It is not uncommon to find the descending branch of tlie ninth nerve within the sheath of the large cervical vessels and in such cases it is placed either over or under the vein. This nerve in some cases appears to be derived either alto- gether from the pneumogastric, or from both the pneumo-gastric and hypo- glossal nerves. There is every reason, however, to believe that these varieties in origin are only apparent, arising from the temporary adhesion of the filaments of this branch to those of the pneumogastric. It" is probable, moreover, that the descendens noni has little if any real origin from the hypoglossal nerve : Lusclika states, as the result of numerous researches on the human subject, that the descendens noni usually contains no filaments from the hj^joglossal, but is a branch from the first and second cervical, temporarily associated with the ninth nerve ; and this quite agrees with the circumstance that in some animals the nerves supplied to those muscles to which the descendens noni of the human subject is distributed come from the cervical plexus. A branch is described as uniting with its fellow of the opposite side in the substance of the genio-hyoid muscle, or between it and the genio-giossu.s. This loop, as also the ansa hj'poglossi, is recommended by Hyrtl as a particularly favoiu-able example for the observation of nerve-fibres returning to the nervous centres without distribution, to which he gives the name of " nerv^es without ends."' (-Nat. Hist. Review," Jan. 18G2.) It was observed by Cruveilhier that in the ansa hjj-poglossi an interchange of fibres takes place, so that a filament of the cervical spinal nerve is dii-ected upwards along the branch of the hn^oglossal, and vice versa.