128 MORPHOLOGY OF THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. to exist, interposed between the bones of the proximal and distal rows, and more immediately between the scaphoid and lunar and the trapezium and trapezoid. This bone is termed the os ccntralt\ and several circumstances appear to indicate that it most frequently corresponds to a part of one of the proximal bones. In the camivora and some other mammals, the scaphoid and lunar are united in the adult into one bone, the scnpJw-hinar, and Flower has obseiwed, that in the young- dog- there is frequently, but not invariably, a separate ossification in the distal part of the scapho-lunar corresponding in position and relations with the OS centrale of other animals (Flower, Joum. of Anat., vol. iv., 1870) ; and a similar Fig. 114. Fig. 115. Fig. 114.—Dorsal Surface op the Right Carpus op Man (Flower), i s, scaphoid ; I, lunar ; c, cimeiform ; jp, pisiform ; tm, trapezium ; td, trapezoid ; m, magnum ; ii, unciform ; I—V, five metacarpals. Fig. 115.—Dorsal Surface op the Carpus of a Baboon (Flower). s, scaphoid ; I, lunar ; c, ciineiform ; p, i^isiform ; tm, trapezium ; td, trapezoid ; m, magnum ; unciform ; rs, radial sesamoid ; ce, os centrale ; I—V, five meta- carpals. observation has been made in the carpus of the young lion by Wilder (1873). But in both of these animals in the adult this piece of bone has become com- pletely ossified, so as to form one with the scapho-lunar. It seems probable that in some animals a central bone may be derived from the separation of the proximal part of the os magnum. The detei-mination of the homology of the navicular bone of the tarsus is not yet fully made out, but it seems most probable that this bone corresponds not to any single or entire bone of the carpus, but rather to the os centrale, together with a detached portion of the scaphoid. In some animals there is a tenth separate bone of the carpus, which seems most nearly to coiTespond to the tuberosity of the scaphoid : this constitutes the typical radial sesamoid of Gegenbaui*, and the navicular bone of the tarsus may per- haps correspond to this along with the os centrale. It is interesting to remark that this bone is sometimes found separate in the human hand. (See W. Griiber, Sti-uthers, Turner, and others, in Journ. of Anat., and Mivart On the Ap- pendicular Skeleton of the Primates" in Philos. Trans. 1867.) The OS calcis is generally believed to correspond most nearly with the cuneiform of the cai-pus, and by some it has been held to include the pisiform,—a view not participated in by Gegenbaui', but of the truth of which any one will be convinced by the inspection of the hand and foot of the bear. It is deserving of remark that in the young of that animal, the much enlarged pisiform possesses an epiphysis of its own, exactly similar to the one known as existing on the tuberosity of the calcaneum,—a fact observable also in other animals, and which of itself refutes the view taken by some that the pisiform corresponds to the epiphysis of the calcaneal tuberosity. (Allen Thomson.) The following tables present a synoptical view of the corresponding or homo- logous bones or other parts in the thoracic and pelvic limbs.