531 THE FOURTH TAIR. crus cerebri immediately in front of the pons. Each nerve may be traced backwards round the peduncle to a place below the corpora quadrigemina, where it arises from the upper part of the valve of Yieussens. Deep origin.—Entering the substance of the valve the fibres of each ■nerve separate into three groups, which follow different directions. 1. The fibres of an anterior group pass obliquely forwards and up- wards in the wall of the aqueduct of Sylvius to end in the posterior part of the nucleus beneath the floor of the aqueduct, which is common to the third and fourth nerves. 2. Other descending fibres pass down on the outer side of the locus €oeruleus to the neighbourhood of the nucleus of the fifth nerve. 3. The fibres of a third group pass transversely inwards in the sub- stance of the velum, decussating with those of the opposite side, and join the ascending or descending fibres of the opposite nerve. Kg. 334.—View FROM ABOVE OF THE Motor Nerves Fig. 334. OF THE Eyeball and its Muscles (after Hirsch- feld and Leveille, altered.) (A. T.) The ophthalmic division of the fifth pair has been •cut short ; the attachment of the muscles round the optic nerve has been opened up, and the three upper muscles turned towards the inner side, their anterior parts being removed ; a part of the optic nerve is cut away to show the inferior rectus ; and a part of the sclerotic coat and cornea is dissected off showing the iris, zona ciliaris, and choroid coat, with the ciliary nerves. a, the upper part of the internal carotid artery emerging from the cavernous sinus ; h, the superior oblique muscle ; 6', its anterior part passing through the pulley ; c, the levator palpebrce superioris ; d, the superior rectus ; e, the internal rectus ; /, the external rectus ; /', its upper tendon turned down ; g, the inferior rectus; h, insertion of the inferior olDlique muscle. II, the commissure of the optic nerve ; II', part of the optic nerve entering the eyeball ; III, the common occulo-motor ; IV, the fourth or trochlear nerve ; V, the greater root of the trigeminus ; V, the smaller or motor root; VI, the abducent neiwe ; 1, the upper division of the third nerve separating from the lower and giving twigs to the levator palpe- brse and superior rectus ; 2, the branches of the lower division supplying the internal and inferior recti muscles ; 3, the long branch of the same nerve proceeding forward to the inferior oblique muscle, and close to the number 3, the short thick branch to the ciliary ganglion : this ganglion is also shown, receiving from behind the slender twig from the nasal nerve, which has been cut short and giving forward some of its ciliary nerves, which pierce the sclerotic coat; 3' mark's the termination of some of these nerves in the ciliary muscle and iris after having passed between the sclerotic and choroid coats ; 4, the distribution of the trochlear nerve to the upper surface of the superior oblique muscle ; 6, the abducent nerve passin^^ into the external rectus. Course and distribution.—From the remoteness of its place of origin, the part of this nerve within the skull is longer than that of any other cranial nerve. It enters an aperture in the free border of the tentorium, outside that for the third nerve, and near the posterior M u 2