THE BRACHIAL ARTEEY. 899 the anterior circumflex and superior profunda together, or some other rarer com- bination of those vessels. The posterior circumflex is sometimes double ; and so is the anterior, but more seldom, SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This ai-tery is usually tied in the third part of its course. The limb having been carried away from the chest, an incision three inches long is made about midway between the folds of the axilla and in the dii-ection of the axis of the limb. On cutting through the deep fascia, the vein, artery and brachial nerves are exposed. The vein is internal, and the artery is partly surrounded by the nerves. The ligature is passed from within outwards. In the rest of its course the artery is so deeply placed and in such close relations with the vein and nerves that an operation on the third part of the subclavian is both easier and more successful, BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial or humeral artery, the continuation of the axillary, Fig. 261. Fig. 261,—DissECTioK of the Axilla and Inside op the Arm to show the Axillary and Brachial Vessels (from R. Quain) ^ The greater and lesser pectoral muscles have been divided so as to expose the axillary vessels : a, the inserted portion of the pectoralis major ; 1), the pectoral portion ; 1,1, axillary artery ; +, + , the median nerve formed by the two portions of the plexus which surround the artery ; 1', placed on a part of the sheath of the brachial vessels, and 1", on the lower part of the biceps muscle, points to the brachial artery surrounded by its vente comites; 2, 2, axillary vein ; 3, 3, the basilic vein; the upper figure is placed on the triceps muscle, the lower on the fascia near the junction of the ulnar vein : on the basilic vein are seen the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve ; 4, on the deltoid, and 4', near the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle, mark the cephalic vein joining the acromio-thoracic and through it the axillary vein ; 5, 5, placed on the divided portions of the pectoralis minor, point to the origin and branches of the acromio-thoracic artery ; 6, placed on a group of axillary glands, indicates the alar thoracic and subscapular vessels ; 7, placed on the trunk of the axillary vein, points to one of the vence comites of the brachial vein, which being joined by the other higher up i)asses into the axillary vein ; the ulnar nerve is seen passing from below the basilic vein towards the inner condyle ; near 1, placed on the coraco-brachialis muscle, is seen the musculo-cutaneous nerve before it passes through that muscle ; near 2, placed on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle, a portion of the nerve of Wrisberg.