192 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The rliomboideus minor, a comparatively narrow muscle, arises from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebra) and from the liojamentum nuchje. It inclines downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the triangular surface at the commencement of the spine. The rkomboideus major, much broader than the preceding: muscle, lies immediately below and in contact with it. It arises from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebra? and their interspinous ligaments, and is inserted into that part of the base of the scapula which is included between the spine and inferior angle. A considerable part of the attachment at the insertion is^. only by firm connective tissue, and the most of the fibres, instead of being fixed directly to the bone, end in a tendon which is connected to the scapula near the lower angle ; in consequence of this arrangement, the muscle may, in part, be separated from the bone without division of its mus- cular or tendinous fibres, and must therefore act most immediately on the lower angle. delations.—The greater part of the rhomboidei muscles is covered by the trapezius, a small angular portion only of the rhomboideus major being sub- cutaneous in the interval between the trapezius and latissimus dorsi; the extent of this portion varies with the position of the scapula, being increased when the arm and shoulder are raised from the side. The rhomboidei cover the greater part of the serratus posticus superior, and the posterior scapular artery descends on their deep surface. Var'u'tv's.—Both rhomboid muscles are liable to variations in the extent of their vertebral and scapular attachments. An additional muscle has been observed running close and parallel to the upper border of the minor, from the scapula to the occipital bone, and has been called rliomljo'idcm occ'xinialis after a similar muscle occurring in some animals. The levator anguli scapulcS arises by slightly tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four or five upper cervical vertebrae, between the attachments of the splenius and scaleni muscles, and forms an elongated fleshy mass which is inserted into the base of the scapula from the spine to the superior angle. Yarieticf^. — The number of vertebral attachments of the levator anguli scapulffi is subject to some variation. A slip has been observed to extend to it from the occipital or from the mastoid process of the temporal bone (Theile), and from the second rib (Meckel). It often appears as a divided muscle, the parts connected with the several vertebra3 remaining separate, even to the place of insertion. It is occasionally connected by slips with the trapezius, scalene, or serrated muscles. In quadrupeds it is united with the serratus magnus, so as to form a single muscle. Nerves of the preceding- muscles.—The trapezius muscle receives its nerves from the spinal accessory which enters it on the deep surface, after being joined by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves, from these nerves directly, and probably also from the posterior branches of the cervical and dorsal spinal nerves as they pierce it. The latissimus dorsi is chiefly supplied by the long subscapular nerve of the brachial plexus, but may also receive twigs from the dorsal and lumbar nerves which pass through it. The nerves of the rhomboid muscles proceed in one or sometimes two branches from the fifth cervical, and the levator scapula) is supplied from the third, and sometimes also from the fifth, cervical nerves.