LOWER SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. 483 from the straight and occipital sinuses, from the veins upon the sides and base of the brain, from those on the under surface of the cere- beUum, and from some of the veins of the diploe. The petrosal sinuses also join the lateral sinus on each side : and two emissary veins connect these with the veins at the back of the head and neck. Fig. 307.—Sketch of the Venous Sinuses IN THE Base of the Cranium, with the Ophthalmic Vein. a, sella turcica and circular sinus ; &, ■cavernous sinus receiving c, tlie ophthalmic vein ; d, superior petrosal ; e, inferior petrosal sinus ; /, transverse sinus ; fj, occipital ; It, lateral ; i, termination of the superior longi- tudinal in the torcular Herophili. The posterior occipital sinus is sometimes a single canal, at other times double, as if composed of two compartments. It lies along the attached border of the falx cerebelli, extending from the pos- terior margin of the foramen magnum to the confluence of the sinuses. It communicates in front with the posterior spinal plexuses of veins. The sinuses placed at the base of the skull are as follows, taking them in their order from before backwards. The circular sinus has the form of a ring, and is placed super- ficially in the substance of the dura mater round the pituitary body ; it receives the blood from the minute veins of the pituitary body and communicates at each side with the cavernous sinus. Sometimes it is -only partially developed, the part in front of the gland being that usually present; sometimes, however, it is behind the gland. The cavernous sinuses, placed one on each side of the body of the ■sphenoid bone, over the roots of the great wings, and stretching from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bones, are of considerable size, and of very irregular form. Each receives the ophthalmic vein at its fore part, and communicates in- ternally with the circular sinus, and posteriorly with the petrosal sinuses. In the wall of each, separated by the lining membrane from the cavity of the sinus, pass forward the third, fourth, and sixth cranial nerves, the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and the I internal carotid artery. I The superior petrosal sinus is a narrow canal running along the I upper margin of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Commencing at the back part of the cavernous sinus, it is directed outwards and backwards in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli ; and, descending a little, ends in the lateral sinus where this lies upon the temporal bone. The inferior petrosal sinus, wider than the upper, passes downwards and backwards along the lower margin of the petrous bone, between this and the basilar process of the occipital bone. It opens into the lateral sinus near its termination, or into the internal jugular vein. I I 2 Fig. 307.