THE SPINAL NERVES. 570 The anterior roots of the spinal nerves are, as will be inferred from what has been already stated, the smaller of the two ; they are devoid of ganglionic enlargement, and their fibres are collected into two bundles near the intervertebral ganglion, as in the posterior root. Size.—The roots of the upper cervical nerves are smaller than those of the lower nerves, the first being much the smallest. The posterior roots of these nerves exceed the anterior in size more than in the other spinal nerves, and they are likewise composed of fasciculi which are considerably larger than those of the anterior roots. Fig. 352. — Different Fig. 352. Views of a portion of • THE Spinal Cord froh THE Cervical Region WITH THE Roots of THE Nerves. Sliglitly enlarged. (A. T.) In A, the anterior sur- face of the specimen is 7 shown, the anterior nerve- root of the right side being divided ; in B, a view of the right side is given; in C, the npper surface is shown ; in D, the nerve-roots and gan- glion are shown from below. ], the anterior median fissure ; 2, pos- terior median fissure ; 3, anterior lateral depres- sion, over which the ante- rior nerve-roots are seen to spread; 4, posterior lateral groove, into which the posterior roots are seen to sink ; 5, anterior roots passing the ganglion ; 5', in A. the anterior root divided ; 6, the posterior roots, the fibres of which enter the ganglion, 6' ; 7, the united or compound nerve ; 7', the posterior primary branch seen in A and D to be derived in part from the anterior and in part from the posterior root. The roots of the dorsal nerves, exception being made of the first, which resembles the lowest cervical nerves and is associated with them in a part of its distribution, are of small size, and vary but slightly, or not at all, from the second to the last. The fasciculi of both roots are thinly strewed over the spinal cord, and are slender, those of the posterior exceeding in thickness those of the anterior root in only a small degree. The roots of the lower lumbar, and of the upper sacral nerves, are the largest of all the spinal nerves ; those of the lowest sacral and of the coccygeal nerve are, on the other hand, the slenderest. All these nerves are crowded together round the lower end of the cord. Of these nerves the anterior roots are the smaller, but the disproportion between the anterior and posterior roots is not so great as in the cervical nerves. Length of the nerves in the spinal canal.—^The place at which the roots of the upper cervical nerves are connected with the