405 SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF BEACIIIAL ARTERY. vessels is not the same in the right and left arms. In fil bodies in which the hig-h division existed, it occurred only on one side in 4.3 ; on both sides, in different positions, in 13 ; and on both sides, in the same position, in the remaining 5. Fig. 265.—x\berrant Artery, separating from the BRACHIAL AT THE 3IIDDLE OP THE ArM, PASSING WITH P^o-^ 265. THE Median Nerve through the Internal Inter- muscular Septum, and joining farther down the regular Ulnar (from R. Quain). ^ a, biceps muscle ; h, triceps ; c, c, divided pronator teres ; d, d, d', median nerve, diverted from its usual course, and passing with the aberrant artery through the internal intermuscular septum ; c, c, e, ulnar nerve in its usual course ; 1, brachial artery, giving off an aberrant artery at the middle of the arm ; 2, the usual radial artery ; 3, aberrant artery, with the median nerve twining round it, passing at 3', through the iuternal intermuscular sejitum ; 3", the same farther down, and communicating at 4' with the first part of the normal ulnar artery, 4^ given ofi" from the brachial. Branches.—It has been already mentioned that the tinpcrior i)rofunda may give origin to the pos- terior circumflex artery, and that its own origin is sometimes transferred to a branch arising from the axillary artery. The inferior 7;7'fl///«/Z« is likewise occasionally absent, and on that account has not been recog- nised by some anatomists as a regular branch of the brachial artery. The anadomotlc artery is sometimes much re- duced in size, and in that.case the inferior profunda takes its place behind the humerus. SUKGICAIi ANATOMY OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial artery may be easily reached for the application of a ligature in any part of its course. In the middle third of the arm its posi- tion on the inside of the biceps muscle, where its pulsation may be felt, is a sufficient guide for the incision. From the thinness of the parts covering the artery, however, and the proximity of super- ficial veins, especially the basilic, the integuments and fascia must be divided with caution. AVlren the fascia has been cut through the median nerve generally comes into view, as it lies in front of the artery. Occasionally it is found necessary to divide some muscular fibres before the artery is reached. In the lower third of the arm, the median nerve being placed to the inner side, the artery is more fully exposed after division of the fascia, but here care is necessary in passing the ligature round the artery, to avoid the vence comites or theii- communicating cross branches, which cling very closely to the artery. From the veiy frequent occurrence of varieties in the mode of division of the brachial artery into the vessels derived from it, the surgeon must be prepared for many deviations from the usual position of the parts, and especially for the presence of tAvo arteries in place of one in the lower third of the brachial region. In such cases the two arteries are most frequently close together and nearly parallel, and it will be easy to tie both vessels, should this be rendered necessary by the nature of the injury for which the operation is performed. But, as will be seen from what has previously been said of the abnormal forms of the brachial artery,