131 ARTHROLOGY.—DIFFERENT KIXDS OF JOINTS. Section IL—ARTHKOLOGY. THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. Yarious Forms of Joints.—The name of articulation, synonymous with joint, is given in descriptive anatomy to the connection subsistiDg in the recent skeleton between any of its denser component parts, whether bones or cartilages. In most instances some softer intervening substance lies between the bones, uniting them together, or clothing the surfaces which are opposed ; but the manner in which the several pieces of the skeleton are thus connected, varies to a great degree both as to the nature of the uniting substances, and the extent of movement which they allow. In some instances, as in the cranial bones, the closeness of the apposition, the unevenness of the fitting surfaces or edges, and the small amount and dense nature of the intervening sub- stance (periosteum), admit of little or no perceptible movement. In other instances of continuous union the extremities of the bones are placed at such a distance, and the intervening substance (ligament oi- ■cartilage) is so yielding, that bending or other movements may take place. But in the greater number of articulations the apposed surfaces of bone are not united either directly or mediately with each other, but are free, and covered with plates of smooth cartilage, the surfaces of which fit accurately together, while the bones are held together by ligamentous structures placed in the vicinity of the joints. In such ■articulations the bones are capable of gliding or moving upon each ■other, the extent and directions of such movements varying with the shape of the opposed cartilaginous surfaces, and the form and attach- ments of the ligamentous and other bands which unite them. It is Upon distinctions such as those now adverted to that the various kinds •of joints or articulations have been brought under the three classes of Synarthrosis, Amphiarthrosis, and Diarthrosis. Synarthrosis means direct or immediate union, and comprehends the joints with little or no motion. It is found chiefly in the various forms of suture by which the bones of the head, excepting the lower j'aw, are united. The sufdire is serrated or dentatcd when the contiguous margins of the bones are subdivided or broken up into projecting points and recesses by which they fit very closely to one another, as in the iborders of most of the tabular bones of the cranium. The squamous or scaly suture is that in which, as in the union of the temporal with the parietal bone, the edges are thinned and bevelled, so that one overlaps the other to a considerable extent. The harmonic suture or liarmonia is the term employed to denote simple apposition of comparatively smooth surfaces or edges, as in the -case of the two superior maxillary bones; and the term schindylesis is applied to that kind of union in which one bone is received into a groove in another, as occurs between the rostrum of the sphenoid bone and the vomer. The impaction of the roots of the teeth in their sockets has likewise been reckoned among the articulations, though with doubtful propriety, and has been designated by the term gomjdwsis.