48 EONES OF THE HEAD. are distinguished as the foramina of Scwya. The whole communi- cation between the nose and the palate may be designated collectively as the a/iterior 2JaIatme canal. Fig. 40.—Front Paut of the Palate and Alveolar Arch of an Adult. I Showing tlie lower opening of the anterior palatine or incisor foramen. 1, 2, are placed on the palate plates of the two superior maxillary bones ; 4, anterior pa- latine foramen, in which is seen a partial division into four openings—the two lateral, with lines pointing to them fi-om 1 and 2, are the incisor foramina (foramina of Stenson) ; the anterior and posterior, indicated by 3 and 4, are the naso-palatiue, or foramina of Scarpa. The terxn.^ incisor foranieyi and anterior palatine cannl are often nsed convertibly and vagTiely to express w^hat has been above defined as the anterior palatine canal, or its inferior opening. According to the definitions here given, incbwr foramen has the same meaning in human as in comparative anatomy, while anteiior palatine canal is restricted to an appearance which presents itself only in man and a few animals. The lamina passing backwards from before each incisor foramen coiTe- sponds to the mesial palatine process of the intermaxillary bone in other animals, e.g. the camivora : while the incisor foramina are those which are seen largely developed in those animals, and are the remains of a primitive communication between the nose and mouth. The foramina of Scarpa lie in the suture between the laminEe referred to. They transmit the naso-palatine nerves ; the nerve of the right side occupying, according to Scai-pa, the posterior one, which is usually largest, and that of the left side, the anterior : but they are very inconstant. (Scarpa, Annot. Anatom., lib. ii. cap. 5.) The external mrface is divided into an anterior and a posterior part by the malar iwocess, a prominence situated above the first molar tooth, and presenting a large triangular roughness for articulation with the malar bone. The anterior portion is deeply notched at its internal margin for tlie opening of the anterior nares. It is marked by a pro- minence corresponding to the position of the fang of the canine tooth ; and internal to this is a slight depression, the incisor or myrtiform fossa; while between it and the malar process is the deeper canine fossa, in which arise the levator anguli oris and compressor nasi muscles. Above the canine fossa, immediately below the margin of the orbit, is the infra-orUtalforamen, which transmits the superior maxillary nerve. The posterior portion looks partly into the zygomatic, partly into the pterygo-maxillary fossa. It exhibits a rough convexity, the tuberosity, projecting backwards, and is perforated by a number of foramina transmitting the superior dental nerves and arteries. The nasal process projects upwards from the anterior and internal part of the bone. Its internal surface, towards its summit, is rough for articulation with the lateral mass of the ethmoid; its anterior border is rough for articulation with the nasal bone, and its summit serrated for articulation with the frontal. Posteriorly it articulates by a linear edge with the lachrymal bone; and external to this it presents a well-marked groove for the lachrymal sac, the laclirymal yroove, which is continued downwards on the inner surface of the bone, between this process and the orbital plate, and with the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones forms the nasal canal. The nasal surface presents an oblique rough line or ridge beneath the