150 AETICULATIONS OF THE UPPEE LIMB. tlie cavity. The upper part of it is connected with the tendon of the long head of the biceps mnscle, which is also fixed into the upper part of the glenoid fossa, within the capsule of the joint. The synovial membrane is reflected uninterruptedly from the margin of the glenoid cavity on the inner surface of the fibrous cap- sule to the humerus, but its form is comphcated by its relation to the tendons of the biceps and subscapularis muscles. The long tendon of the biceps muscle traversing the joint in its course from the upper border of the glenoid cavity to the bicipital groove, is enclosed in a tubular sheath, formed by an offset or process of the synovial mem- brane, which is continued down upon it beyond the fibrous capsule into the bicipital groove, and is thence reflected upwards upon it to its origin, where it again becomes continuous with the synovial mem- brane of the capsule in such a manner as to preserve the integrity of the membrane. The bursal prolongation of the synovial membrane on the tendon of the subscapularis muscle is of variable extent, sometimes scarcely existing, sometimes forming a considerable pouch on the venter of the scapula. Subacromial Bursa.—Superficial to the muscles covering the top of the joint is a considerable bursa mucosa, by means of which the contiguous surfaces of the coracoid and acromion processes, and of the coraco-acromial ligament and deltoid muscle, are lubri- cated, so as to facilitate the movements of the subjacent head of the liumerus. Movements.-—Grieat freedom of movement of the humerus in every du-ection is admitted at the shoulder-joint; but superiorly and posteriorly the extent of the movement is somewhat limited by the margin of the acromion. When the arm is raised the great tuberosity of the humerus becomes locked against the acromion as soon as the position is reached in which the limb lies at right angles to the trunk, and all further elevation is accomplished by movements in the stern o-clavicular and acromio-clavicular articulations. The arch formed by the acromion, the coracoid process, and the deltoid ligament, lined by the sub- acromial bursa, forms a sort of secondary socket in which the extremity of the humerus, covered by the tendons inserted into the gi'eat tuberosity, revolves, and against vv'hich it is pressed when the weight of the body is made to rest upon the arms. AETIOULATIONS OF THE FOREARM AND ELBOW. The bones of the forearm are united by a superior and an inferior articulation and an interosseous membrane. In the SUPERIOR radio-ulnar articulation the head of the radius is connected with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna by the annular or orbicular ligament. This ligament' is a strong band of fibres attached to the ulna in front and behind, at the extremities of the small sigmoid cavity, and forming four-fifths of a ring which encircles the head of_ the radius and binds it firmly in its situation. The external lateral ligament of the elbow is inserted into its outer surface ; its deep surface is smooth, and is lined by the synovial membrane of the elbow- joint. The INFERIOR RADio-ULNAR ARTICULATION.—The connection between the semilunar surface of the radius and the lower end of the ulna is effected by means of a fibro-cartilage, a synovial membrane, and some scattered ligamentous fibres in front and behind. The triangular fibre-