170 AETICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 152. Fig. 152.—Vertical Antero-Posterior Section of the patella and tlie femur it consists of fibres connected with the insertion of the vasti muscles and with the fascia lata, and thus forms the structures, uniting the patella to the tibia, which have been called lateral patellar ligaments; posteriorly it covers the condyles of the femur beneath the gastrocnemius muscle. In this last situation it is thin, and a sesamoid bone is often found in connection with it in the outer, less frequently in the inner head of the muscle. The synovial membrane is the largest in the body. Traced down- wards from the femur on either side of the joint, it may be followed from the capsule to the upper surface of the semilunar cartilages, round the free borders of those structures to their inferior surfaces, and thence to the tibia. The crucial hgaments are invested in front by a reflected OF THE Left Knee-Joint, seen from the outer or left side. (A. T.) \ The section is made somewhat obliquely a little to the outside of the middle, so as to jireserv^e entire the crucial ligaments with their attachments : it is from a young subject of eighteen or nineteen years. 1, 1, the upper portion of the synovial cavity ex- tending upwards between the extensor tendons and the femur ; 1', an apei'ture made into the posterior portion of the synovial cavity ; 2, 2', ligamentum mucosura ; 3, ligamentum patellae ; 2', 3, the sub- patellar sjTiovial fatty cushion ; 4, bursa above the insertion of the ligamentum patellae into the ante- rior tibial tuberosity ; 5, 5', the anterior crucial ligament ; 5', points also to the internal semilunar cartilage within the joint; 6, lower part of the posterior crucial ligament, the upper part of which is towards 2 ; 6', the accessory band joining the external semilunar cartilage, which is cut short ;, 7, the spine of the tibia. portion of the membrane continued for- wards from the posterior wall of the joint. Between the tibia and patella the syno- vial membrane lies upon a large pad or cushion of fat, on the surface of which it forms two lateral folds {alar ligaments) which fit into the space between the tibia, patella and femur, while from the middle of the pad it sends backwards a tapering process, the ligamentum mucosum, through the joint to the front of the intercondylar fossa. Above the patella the synovial mem- brane extends upwards some distance, forming a large pouch between the extensor tendons and the femur. Movements, &c.—In order to explain the nature of the movements, it is necessary to state some considerations with regard to the relations of the several parts of the knee-joint to each other. The knee-joint may be regarded as con- sisting of three articulations conjoined, xiz., that between the patella and femur, and two others, one between each condyle of the femur and the tibia. In most mammals the sjniovial membranes of those three joints are either completely distinct or communicate with each other by only small openings ; and this some- times occurs in Man. In the human subject the ligamentum mucosum is an