SYNOPSIS OF MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION OF NERVES. G25 The sferno-mastoiil is supplied by the spinal accessory nerve and a twig of the cervical plexus coming from the second cervical nerve. The rectus capitis anticus major and minor are supplied by twigs from the upper cervical nerves ; the lonfjus colli and scaleni muscles by twigs from the lower cervical nerves. The muscles of the chest, viz., the intercostals, subcostals, levatores costarum, and triangularis sterni, are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The oUiqui, transversiis, and rectus of the abdomen are supplied by the lower intercostal nerves ; and the oblique and transverse muscles also get branches from the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric nerves. The cremaster muscle is supplied by the genital branch of the genito- crural nerve. The quadraius hmiborum (like the psoas) receives small branches from the lumbar nerves before they form the plexus. The diajjhragm receives the phrenic nerves from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and likewise sympathetic filaments from the plexuses round the phrenic arteries. The muscles of the urethra and jienis are supplied by the pudic nerve ; the levator and sphincter ani by the pudic and by the fourth and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves ; and the coccygeus muscle by the three last-named nerves. 3. To muscles attaching the upper limb to the trunk.—The trapezius and the sterno-cleido-mastoid receive the distribution of the sjnnal accessory nerve, and, in union with it, filaments from the cervical plexus. The latissimus dorsi receives the long subscapular nerve. The rhonihoidei are supplied by a special branch from the anterior division of the fifth cervical nerve. The levator anrjuU scapulce, is supplied by branches from the anterior division of the third cervical nerve, and sometimes partly also by the branch to the rhomboid muscles. The serratus mcignus has a special nerve, the posterior thoracic, derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The suMavius receives a special branch from the place of union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The peciorales are supplied by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus, the larger muscle receiving filaments from both these nerves, and the smaller from the inner only. 4. To muscles of the upper limb.—Muscles of the shoulder.—The supraspinatus and infraspinatus are supplied by the suprascapular nerve ; the subscapularis by the two smaller subscapular nerves ; the teres major by the second subscapular, and the deltoid and teres minor by the cir- cumflex nerve. Posterior muscles of the arm and forearm.—The triceps, anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by direct branches of the musculo-spiral nerve ; while the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the other extensor muscles in the forearm receive their branches from the posterior interosseous division of that nerve. Anterior muscles of tlie arm and forearm.—The coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; the brachialis anticus likewise generally receives a twig from VOL. I. • . s s