313 ACTION OF INSPIRATORY MUSCLES. motion in the middle of their arch ; and in the living subject, the ribs, in their elevation, both rotate upon their axis and bend upon themselves, instead of describing- a simple upward and dovs^nward movement like the bars, so that it is impossible to draw any certain conclusion from such imperfect imitations of the mechanism. On the whole, the deficiency of the external intercostal muscles in front and of the internal behind, in which situations they would have acted as depressors, seems to point to a combined action of the muscles as eleva- tors of the ribs in the manner maintained by Haller. This view is farther supported by the result of experiments on the galvanic stimulation of the intercostal muscles. Thus Duchenne found (Physiol, des Mouvements, &c., p. 647) that the direct galvanic stimulation of the external intercostal muscles throughout the fifth space caused the lower ribs to rise ; towards the upper, and likewise that the stimulation of the internal intercostal muscles in the inter- cartilaginous part of the space also caused the lower rib to rise, and he farther found that when the galvanic stimulus was so strong as to reach the intercostal nerve, and throw the whole of the internal as well as the external intercostal muscles into action, the lower ribs were still elevated. These results received additional confirmation from the pathological observation that in cases of paralysis of the diaphragm and the auxiliary muscles of inspnation the ribs were raised by the sole action of the intercostal muscles, and that in other cases in which the intercostal muscles were paralysed, while the diaphragm retained its power, the expansion of the upper ribs was entu-ely abolished. Among the more recent anatomical writers, Henle inclines to Haller's view ;. Luschka refers to Budge's experiments on the' muscles of living animals, a& proving that the internal intercostal muscles elevate the ribs (Budge, " Lehrbuch der Physiologic des Menschen," Weimar, 1860, p. 79). The levatores costarum have a similar action with the posterior fibres of the external intercostal muscles, and ought therefore to be ranked among the agents of inspiration. The scalene muscles also are usually believed to contribute, even in normal and quiet inspiration, to the support and elevation of the first and second ribs ; and it is obvious that the serratus posticus superior must have a similar effect on those upper ribs to which it is attached. The action of tJic dlajjliragm is more easily understood than that of the inter- costal muscles. By its contraction and descent its convexity is diminished, the abdominal viscera are pressed downwards, and the thorax expanded vertically» The fibres arising from the lowest ribs, being directed nearly vertically upwards from their costal attachments, must tend to pull those ribs upwards. Duchenne has shown that the contraction of the diaphragm by itself elevates and expands the lower ribs, but only so long as the vault of the muscle is supported by the abdominal viscera, for when they are removed it no longer has that action (op. cit. p. 620). The serratus posticus inferior and quadratus lumborum muscles, by opposing the diaphragm, and thus giving it a fixed point on which to descend, become assistant muscles of inspiration. The anterior fibres of the diaphragm being directed more horizontally towards the central tendon, oppose the forward motion of the sternum ; hence the sternum becomes arched in patients long- subject to asthma. (Hutchinson, Article " Thorax,'' in Todd's " Cyclopaidia of Anatomy and Physiology ; " Meyer, " Physiologische Anatomic.") In more forcible inspiration, and more especially in severe attacks of dyspnoea, there are called into play other powerful muscles, to secure the inspiratory action of which a fixed attachment mr.st be provided by the support and elevation of the shotdder and arm ; among these may be enumerated the serratus magnus and pectoralis minor, acting from the shoulder, and the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, acting from the raised arm, which together produce expansion and eleva- tion of the ribs. Expiratkm.—In normal and quiet expiration the diminution of the capacity of the chest is mainly, if not whoUy due to the return of the walls of the chest to the condition of rest, in consequence of their own elastic re-action, and of the elasticity and weight of the viscera and other parts displaced by inspira- tion ; the limgs themselves, after distension by air, exert considerable elastic force, and no doubt the ribs and their cartilages react strongly by their elastic