NEEVES OF THE THORAX. 597 3, tlie nerve of Wrisberg ; 4, the intercostal nerves continued forwards to 4', their ante- rior cutaneous twigs ; 5, the lateral cutaneous branches of these nerves ; 6, cutaneous branch of the last dorsal spinal nerve ; 7, the iliac twig of the ilio-hypogastric branch of the first lumbar nerve ; 8, termination of the ilio-hypogastric ; 9, the ilio-inguinal ; 10, the middle cutaneous of the thigh. greater pectoral, and end in the integument of the breast, receiving the name of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. At the anterior part of the chest some of the muscular twigs cross the car- tilages of the ribs, passing from one intercostal space to another. («) The lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax pierce the external inter- costal and serratus magnus muscles, in a line a little behind the pectoral border of the axilla. The first intercostal usually gives no lateral branch or only a slender twig to the axilla, but, when that of the second nerve is unusually small, it is supplemented by that of the first. The branch from the second intercostal is named intercosto-humeral, and requires separate description. Each of the remaining lateral cutaneous nerves divides into two branches, which reach the integument at a short distance from each other, and are named anterior and posterior. The (interio)' hrayicJies are continued forwards over the border of the great pectoral muscle. Several reach the mammary gland and the nipple ; and from the lower nerves twigs are supplied to the digitations of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The 2^ostn'io)' drayiches turn backwards to the integument over the scapula and the latissimus dorsi muscle. The branch from the third nerve ramifies in the axilla, and a few filaments reach the arm. The intercosto-Jmmernl nerve, the lateral cutaneous branch of the second inter- costal nerve, corresponds with the posterior of the two divisions of the succeeding lateral [cutaneous branches, the anterior being commonly wanting. It crosses the axillary space to reach the arm, and is connected in the axilla with an offset of the nerve of Wrisberg. Penetrating the fascia it becomes subcutaneous, and ramifies in the integument of the upper half of the arm, on the inner and pos- terior aspect; a few filaments reach the integument over the scapula. The branches of this nerve cross over the internal cutaneous offset of the musculo- spiral, and a communication is established between the two nerves. The size of the intercosto-humeral nerve, and the extent of its distribution, are in the inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves of the upper arm, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. {!)) The anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, which are the terminal twigs of the intercostal nerves, are reflected outwards in the integument over the great pectoral muscle. The branch from the second nerve is connected with the superclavicular and the lateral cutaneous nerves ; those from the third and fourth nerves are distributed to the mammary gland. LOWER OR ABDOMINAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. The lower intercostal nerves are continued from the anterior ends of the intercostal spaces, between the internal oblique and the transverse muscle of the abdomen, to the outer edge of the rectus. Perforating the sheath, they enter the substance of that muscle, and afterwards terminate in small cutaneous branches (anterior cutaneous). {a) The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pass to the integ-ument through the external intercostal and external oblique muscles, in a line with the corresponding nerves on the thorax, and divide in the same manner into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior brandies are the larger, and are directed inwards in the super- ficial fascia, with small cutaneous arteries, nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle.