LUMBAR AND SACEAL NEEVES AND GANGLIA. G37 Its position on the front of the sacrum is along the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina ; and like the two series of those foramina, the two cords approach one another in their progress downwards. The upper end of each is connected with the last lumbar ganglion by a single or a double interganglionic cord ; and at the lower end they are connected by means of a loop with a single median ganglion, gcoiglion impar, placed on the fore part of the coccyx. The sacral ganglia are usually five in number ; but the variation both in size and number is more marked in these than in the thoracic or lumbar ganglia. Connection ivith sjnnal nerves.—From the proximity of the sacral ganglia to the spinal nerves at their emergence from the foramina, the communicating branches are very short : there are usually two for each ganglion, and these are in some cases connected with different sacral nerves. The coccygeal nerve communicates with the last sacral, or the coccygeal ganglion. Branches.—The branches proceeding from the sacral ganglia are much smaller than those from other ganglia of the cord. They are for the most part expended on the front of the sacrum, and join the corresponding branches from the opposite side. Some filaments from one or two of the first ganglia enter the hypogastric plexus, while others go to form a plexus on the middle sacral artery. From the loop connecting the two cords on which the coccygeal ganglion is formed, filaments are given to the coccyx and the ligaments about it, and to the coccygeal gland. Coccygeal Gland. Under this name has been described by Luschka a minute structure, which has since received the attention of a number of writers. It is usually, according to Luschka, of the size of a lentil, and sometimes as large as a small pea ; its colour is reddish grey ; its surface lobu- lated ; and it occupies a hollow at the tip of the coccyx, between the tendons attached to that part. It receives terminal twigs of the middle sacral artery and minute filaments from the ganglion impar. It con- sists of an aggregation of grains or lobules, which in some instances remain separate one from another. These lobules are principally composed of thick-walled cavities of vesicular and tubular appearance, described by Luschka and subsequent writers as closed follicles filled with cellular contents, but recently demonstrated by Julius Arnold to be clumps of dilated and tortuous small arteries, with thickened muscular and epithelial coats. Nerve-cells are found scattered in the stroma of the organ. The coccyg-eal gland is a structure evidently of a similar nature to the g-anglion intercaroticum, the principal differences apparently being, that the glomeruli of the ganglion intercaroticum are produced principally by the convolution and ramification of arterial twigs, while in the coccygeal gland there is dilation of the branches and thickening of their walls ; and that the nervous element is more developed in the intercarotid ganglion than in the coccygeal gland. Arnold, with Luschka, appears inclined to consider both stnictui-es as allied in nature to the suprarenal capsules. According to Arnold, there is always a number of small grape-like appendages on the coccygeal part of the middle sacral artery, micro- scopic in size, but similar in nature to the lobules of which the coccygeal gland is composed. (Luschka, " Der Himanhang und die Steissdi-iise des Menschen." Berlin, 1860. Also " Anat. d. Mensch.," vol. ii. pari; 2, p. 187. Julius Arnold in Yirchow's " Archiv," March, 1865.)