SUBSCAPULARIS. ACTIONS OF SHOULDER MUSCLES. 203 Relations.—Posteriorly this muscle is covered at its lower part by the latissiraus dorsi, and at its upper part it is crossed by the long head of the triceps. The outer side is surrounded obliquely by the latissimus dorsi; and the anterior sm-face is concealed in the upper part of its extent by the tendon of that muscle. The inner border of the muscle forms the margin of a triangular space, of which the other sides are the upper part of the humerus, and the axillary border of the scapula, covered before by the subscapular and behind by the teres minor muscles ; this triangle is divided by the long head of the triceps into a superior or external quadrilateral, and an inferior or internal, triangular compartment. Through the quadrilateral space pass backwards the posterior circumflex vessels and the circum- flex nerve ; and in the triangular subdivision the dorsal branch of the subsca- pular artery passes round the margin of the scapula into the infraspinous fossa. Varieti'js.—The teres major muscle is sometimes found connected with the fasciculi of the latissimus dorsi arising from the same part of the scapula. A slip from this muscle has also been observed descending upon the fascia of the upper arm externally. The subscapularis muscle arises partly by muscular and partly by tendinous fibres from the venter of the scapula, with the exception of the neck of the bone and the spaces occupied by the serratus raagnus ; its fibres unite into a broad tendon which perforates the capsular liga- ment of tlie shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the small tuberosity of the humerus. Some fleshy fibres also are directly inserted into the bone for a short distance lower down. Three or four tendinous septa, attached to the ridges of the subscapular fossa, pass outwards in the origin of the muscle ; and others are prolonged inwards from the tendon of insertion. lielatwns.—The tendon of the subscapularis is incorporated with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and between its upper and posterior surface, the coracoid process, and the neck of the scapula is a bursa usually communicating with that joint. There is also sometimes a bursa intervening between the anterior surface of the muscle and the origin of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. Ante- riorly the muscle is in contact at its origin with the serratus magnus, and is covered at its insertion by the coraco-brachialis and biceps, while, in the interval between, it forms part of the posterior wall of the axilla. Varieties.—The varieties hitherto observed in this muscle are not considerable. A small additional muscle, of somewhat variable form, has been described by different authors, as passing from the surface of the subscapularis over the capsular ligament, but without piercing it, to be inserted into or near the inner margin of the bicipital groove, the suh.ttvqjulo-cajisularis of Wenzel Gruber. Nerves of the Shoulder Muscles.—The supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles receive their nerves from the suprascapular branch which proceeds from the upper loop of the brachial plexus, and therefore from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The other muscles of this group are all supplied with nerves from the posterior division of the plexus, as follows : the deltoid and teres minor from the circumflex nerve, the teres major and the subscapularis from the middle and short subscapular nerves. Actions of the Shoulder Muscles.—The deltoid muscle raises the arm from the side as far as the structure of the shoulder-joint permits, viz., till it is at right angles with the trunk. Further elevation of the upper limb is effected chiefly by the trapezius ; and it may be remarked that the insertion of that muscle cor- responds exactly in extent to the origin of the deltoid, so that the two muscles may be considered continuous in structure as well as in action. The anterior fibres of the deltoid combine with the pectoralis major to draw the humerus forwards ; the posterior assist in drawing it backwards. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and su.bscapularis muscles being placed more closely roimd the joint, when acting in concert with the deltoid, probably give steadiness and precision, while the deltoid gives the main elevating force to the movement. The supraspinatus simply elevates : the infraspinatus and subscapularis carry the arm backwards or for-