TEXSOE, YAGINiE FEMORIS MUSCLE. 235 all the lumbar vertebrae in the following manner :—Each slip takes origin from an intervertebral disc, and from the contiguous margins of the bodies of two vertebr93, the highest being attached to the neigh- bouring margins of the last dorsal and lirst lumbar vertebras, and the lowest to the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae with the intervertebral substance between them. These attachments are connected by thin tendinous arches extending over the middle of each vertebra, covering the lumbar vessels and communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve, and giving origin to other muscular fibres. The various bundles of fibres speedily unite to form a thick elongated muscle, which runs along the brim of the pelvis, and emerging trom the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament is inserted into the small trochanter of the femur by means of a tendon, which is placed at first within the substance of the muscle, and afterwards at its outer side, receiving in this manner the fibres of the ihacus as well as those of the psoas. Relations.—The psoas muscle, at its superior extremity, passes behind the dia- phragm, below the arch of the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Posteriorly it is in contact with the quadratus lumborum muscle and the os innominatum. Eesting on its inner border along the margin of the pelvis, is the external iliac artery, and deeply in the substance of the muscle is the lumbar plexus of nerves. The ilio-inguinal and external cutaneous nerves cross the iliacus muscle, and the anterior crural nerve descends on the tendon of the psoas. The iliac fascia extends over the surface of the whole ilio-psoas muscle in the abdomen. After emerging from the abdomen beneath Pouparfs ligament, and turning over the brim of the pelvis, the tendon of the psoas rests on the capsule of the hip- joint, on which it glides by means of a large synovial bursa, which occasionally com- municates Math the interior of the joint; its outer margin is in contact with the rectus muscle, and its inner margin is separated from the pectineus by the in- ternal circumflex artery. Var'u'tij.—The2>'^oa,si)arcus, an occasional muscle, placed on the sm-face of the psoas magnus, arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and from the fibro-cartilage between them, and soon ends in a flat tendon, which passes along the front and the inner side of the psoas magnus, to be inserted into the ilio-pectineal line and eminence. This muscle, although it is well developed and constant in animals, is most frequently absent in the human subject. It was found in only one of twenty bodies examined by Tlieile with special refer- ence to its existence. When present, it is liable to many changes in the place of origin ; thus, it may be connected only with the first lumbar vertebra, or with the second and the intervertebral substance above it, and it has been observed to commence by two jaarts or heads separated by an interval. The tensor vaginee femoris, or ilio-aponeurotic muscle of the thigh, arises by muscular and tendinous fibres from the external surface of the iliac crest close to its fore-part, and from part of the notch between the two anterior iliac spines, external to the attachment of the sartorius ; and passing downwards and a little outwards it is inserted between two laminae of the fascia lata, from three to four inches below the great troclianter of the femur. The outer of these lamina is continued upwards on the muscle in its w^hole extent, being part of the general investment of the limb, the deeper is connected above with the origin of the rectus muscle, and the fibres attaching the gluteus minimus to the hip-joint. The part of the fascia, made tense by the action of the muscle, forms a strong tendinous band, which descends to the outer surface of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia. Rclatlom.—This muscle lies upon the anterior border of the gluteus minimus, the upper parts of the rectus femoris and vastus externus muscles, and the