505 THE THORACIC DUCT. the upper surface~of the liver), and from the walls of the abdomen, from the left side of the thorax, left lung, left side of the heart, and left upper Fig. 322. limb, and from the left side of the head and neck. It is from fifteen to eighteen inches long in the adult, and extends usually from the second lumbar yertebra ;mi^r to the root of the neck. Its commence- ^ iHlt i J&k ment, however, is often as low as the ' third lumbar vertebra ; and in some cases ^ II [ & as high as the first lumbar, or even the last dorsal vertebra. Here there is usually a dilatation of the duct, of variable size, which is called recep- taculum chyli (Pecquet), and is the common place of junction of the lym- ^'^JlAi phatics from the lower limb with the trunks of the lacteal vessels. \v^ii Fig. 322.—Sketch of the Thoracic THE Pbincipal Systemio Veins. Duct with (A. T.) The full description of this figure will be found at p. 473. 10, 10, indicate the thoracic duct ; the lower number is close to the receptacidum chyli, the upper is on the fourth dorsal vertebra, above which the duct inclines to the left ; 6, on the left subclavian vein, marks the termination of the duct in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugu- lar veins ; 5, on the right subclavian vein, indicates the similar termination of the right lymphatic trunk. The lower part of the thoracic duct is generally wider than the rest, being about three lines in diameter ; it lies at first to the right side of or behind the aorta ; it then ascends on the right side of that in contact with the ridit cms of the diaphragm, to the thorax, where it is V placed at first upon the front of the dorsal vertebra, between the aorta and the azy- gos vein. The duct ascends, gradually inclining to the left, and at the same time diminishing, slightly in size, until it reaches the third dorsal vertebra, where, i m passing behind the arch of the aorta, Hlfe-^-'K* it comes into contact with the oesophagus, lying between the left side of that tube '^>!llVi and the pleura. Continuing its course into the neck to the level of the upper border of the seventh cervical vertebra, it changes its direction and turns for- wards, at the same time arching downwards and outwards so as to 11'