178 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. ihin fibres, extending obliquely between the two bones ; aplcmfar, con- sisting of transverse fibres ; and an interosseous ligament, which inter- venes between their contiguous surfaces. When the bones touch, which is not always the case, they present two small articulating surfaces, which are covered with cartilage, and have between them an offset of the adjacent synovial membrane. Scaplio-Ciineiform Articulation.—The scaphoid and the cuneiform bones are held together by dorsal ligaments. It will be recollected that the scaphoid articulates with the three cuneiform bones by the smooth faces on its anterior surface. The clorsat ligaments, three in number, pass from the upper surface of the scaphoid to the first, second, and third cuneiform bones, into which they are respectively inserted. Plantar hands are similarly disposed on the under surface of the bones, but these are continuous with, or offsets from, the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. Ciilao-CTineiform Articulation.—The cudoid and the external cimeiform hones are connected by a dorsal ligament, which is a thin fasciculus of transverse fibres ; a plantar ligament, whose fibres are also transverse and rather indistinct; and a bundle of interosseous fibres. Between Fig. ICO. Fig. 160.—The Synovial Cavities of the Ankle-Juint and the Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations, in Section. (A. T.) ^ The section lias been carried obliquely upwards and inwards across the foot, and vertically through the upper part of the astragalus and the tibia. 1, cut surface of the tibia above the ankle-joint ; 2, placed on the astragalus above the posterior calcaneo-talar synovial cavity ; 3, on the head of the astragalus close to the common calcaneo-talo- scaphoid synovial cavity ; 4, interosseous calcaneo-talar ligament ; 5, on the anterior edge of the calcaneum, points to the calcaneo-cuboid synovial cavity ; 6, interosseous calcaneo- cuboid ligament ; 7, on the scaphoid bone, marks the common scapho-cuneiform and intercuneiform synovial cavity ; 8, on the cuboid bone, points to the interosseous scapho-cuboid ligament ; 9, internal, 10, middle, 11, external cuneiform bones ; 12, cuboid : between these several bones the interosseous ligaments are shown ; from 13 to 17^ are the metatarsal bones, with the interosseous ligaments between them ; between 9 and 14, the interosseous ligament from the internal cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone ; 11 and 16, the interosseous ligament from tlie external cuneiform to the fourth metatarsal bone : there are also shown in this figure, the synovial cavity of the first tarso-metatarsal articulation, that between the middle and external cuneiform bones and the second and third metatarsal ; and that between the cuboid and jthe fourth and fifth metatarsal bones.