606 THE LUMBAR NEEYES. part of the femoral artery. It divides either in front of that vessel, or at the inner side, into two branches (one anterior, the other internal), which pierce the fascia separately. Before dividing-, this nerve gives off two or three cutaneous twigs, which accompany the upper part of the long- saphenous vein. The highest of these perforates the fascia near the saphenous opening-, and reaches down to the middle of the thigh. The others appear beneath the skin lower down by the side of the vein ; one, larger than the rest, passes through the fascia about the middle of the thigh, and extends to the knee. In some instances, these small branches spring directly from the anterior crural nerve, and they often communi- cate with each other. Fig. 370. Fig. 370.—Cutaneous Nerves oi" the Anterior AND Inner Part op the Thigh (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). } 1, external cutaneous nerve; 2, 2, middle cuta- neous branch of the anterior crural passing through the sartorius muscle and the fascia; 3, 3, anterior division of the internal cutaneous ; 4, filament to the sartorius ; 5, inner or posterior division of the internal cutaneous ; 6, its superficial branch to the inside of the knee after perforating the fascia ; 7, deep or communicating branch ; 8, superficial branch of the musculo-cutaneous of the crural; 9, patellar branch of the internal saphenous nerve ; 10, continuation of the saphenous down the leg. The anterior terminal hrancTi, descending in a straight line to the knee, perforates the fascia lata in the lower part of the thigh ; it afterwards runs down near the intermuscular septum, giving off filaments on each side to the skin, and is finally directed over the patella to the outer side of the knee. It communicates above the joint with a branch of the long saphenous nerve; and sometimes it takes the place of the branch usually given by the latter to the integument over the pateUa. This branch of the internal cutaneous nerve sometimes lies above the fascia in its whole length. It occasionally gives off a cutaneous filament, which accompanies the long saphenous vein, and in some cases it communicates with the branch to be next described. The iymer hranch of the internal cutaneous nerve, descending along the posterior border of the sartorius muscle, perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of the knee, and communi- cates by a small branch with the internal saphenous nerve, which here descends in front of it. It gives some cutaneous filaments to the lower part of the thigh on the inner side, and is distributed to the skin upon the inner side of the leg. Whilst beneath the fascia, this branch of the internal cutaneous nerve joins in an interlacement with offsets of the obturator nerve below the middle of the thigh, and with the branch of the saphenous nerve nearer the knee. D. Internal saphenous nerve.—The internal or long saphenous nerve is the largest of the cutaneous branches of the anterior crui-al nerve. In some cases it arises in connection with one of the deep or muscular branches. This nerve is deeply placed as far as the knee, and is subcutaneous in the rest