221 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. l)revis and the four deeper extensor muscles receive branches from the interosseous nerve. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Fi- 181. Besides the tendons of the long muscles and the lumbricales already described, there are placed in the hand one superficial muscle called palmaris brevis, the short muscles of the thumb and little finger, and Fig. 180. the interossei muscles. Fig. 180.—Muscles and Tendons of the Palmae, Aspect of the Hand. ^ Portions of the tendons of the superficial flexor have heen cut away to show those of the deep flexor and the himbricales. 1, ten- don of the flexor carj)i radialis, cut short ; 2, tendon of the flexor cari^i vilnaris, inserted into the pisiform bone ; 3, anterior annular ligament of the carpus ; 4, abductor pollicis ; 5, opponens pollicis ; 6, 6, flexor brevis ; 7, adductor pollicis ; 8, abductor minimi digiti ; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 10, lum- Ijricales, jmssing to their insertion on the radial side of the four fingers. The palmaris brevis is a thin flat subcutaneous muscle, which arises from the inner margin of the palmar fascia and annular ligament ; its fibres proceed transversely inwards, and are inserted into the skin along the inner border of the palm. jRelatlons.—The palmaris brevis crosses the muscles of the little finger and covers the ulnar artery and nerve. It is subject to considerable variation in its breadth and thickness, consisting- sometimes of only a few scattered fibres. Fig. 181.—Deep Muscles op the Palm of THE Hand, i The abductor jDollicis and abductor minimi digiti, together with the anterior annular ligament and the long flexor tendons in the l)alm have been removed; in the fore-finger the tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors remain; in the other fingers the ten- dons of the superficial flexor have been removed. 1, pronator quadratus muscle ; 2, opponens pollicis ; 3, flexor brevis pollicis ; 4, adductor pollicis; 5, opponens minimi digiti; 6, unciform bone ; 7, 8, interosseous muscles. Muscles of the Thumb.—The fleshy mass which forms the tJirnar emmence, or ball of the thumb, consists of four muscles. The abductor pollicis muscle (abductor brevis pollicis—Alb.), super- ficial and flat, arises from the annular ligament and from the ridge of the OS trapezium, and proceeding outwards and forwards, is inserted