295 DEEP LATERAL CERVICAL MUSCLES. iyoid bone, but the larynx is raised by the action of the thyro-hyoid muscles. During- degkitition the action of the thyro-hyoid muscles, by approximating- the thyi-oid cartilage and hyoid bone, facilitates the descent of the epig-lottis on the sui:)erior aperture of the larynx. DEEP LATERAL AND PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The SCALENI muscles form a group of strong muscular columns, wliich are usually three in number, but sometimes only two. All of them are subdivided superiorly into musculo-tendinous slips, corre- sponding in number with their vertebral attachments. The anterior scalenus muscle is attached superiorly to the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra9, and inferiorly by a thick flattened tendon to the scalene tubercle, a rough part of the inner border and upper surface of the first rib in front of the subclavian groove. Bvlatlons.—This muscle is placed deeply : in its louver part it is crossed by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and in its whole length it is tra- versed by the phrenic nerve passing- obliquely from above downwards and inwards. The subclavian vein and artery pass respectively in front and behind its inferior attachment. The nerves of the brachial plexus emerge from behind its outer border above the subclavian artery. The rectus capitis anticus major arises on its inner side, the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery lies in the groove between that muscle and the scalenus, and in front is the internal jugular vein. Fig. 215.—The Deep Lateral Fig. 215. AND Prevertebral Mus- The scaleniis medius is attached superiorly to the posterior tubercles a, cut surface of the basilar process; h, transverse process of the atlas ; c, trans- verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra ; d, body of the first, d', of the fourth dor- sal vertebra ; e, first, and e', second rib ; 1, rectus capitis anticus major muscle ; 2, rec- tus cax3itis anticus minor ; 3, middle part, 3', upper part, and Z", lower part of the longus colli; 4, rectus lateralis ; 4', first pair, and 4", second i^air of intertransversales ; 5, scalenus anticus of the right side ; 5', the tendon of attachment to the first rib on the left side ; 6, scalenus medius ; 6', lower por- tion of the corresponding mus- cle of the left side ; 7, scalenus j)osticus, its superior attach- ments shown upon the left side ; 8, upper part of the levator scapulae drawn out from its vertebral attacliments ; 9, splenius colli, showTi in the same manner. CLES OF THE NeCK FROM before. (A. T.) i