MUSCLES OF THE LO^YE]l LIMB. 252 The plantaris muscle arises from the femur immediately ahove the external condyle, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint ; its muscular part is from three to four inches in length, and terminates in a long delicate tendon, which inclines inwards between the gastro- cnemius and soleus, and, running along the inner border of the tendo Achillis, is inserted not far from it into the posterior part of the calcaneum. Varieties.—The plantaris varies in its mode of termination ; it is sometimes enclosed in the lower part of the tendo Achillis ; and, in other cases, it ends in the internal annular ligament, which binds down the tendons and vessels behind the inner malleolus. It is not unfrequently absent altogether. This muscle, which is little developed and almost vestigial in man, is sometimes of large size in animals, and in some is continued forward in the sole of the foot as a j)art of the flexor muscles of the toes. The DEEP GROUP of posterior muscles of the leg is in close contact with the bones ; it consists of the popliteus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus poUicis, and tibialis posticus. The popliteus, an oblique muscle placed below the knee, arises by a thick tendon, about an inch in length, from the fore part of the 23opliteal groove on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, within the external lateral ligament and capsule of the knee-joint; it is in contact with the external semilunar cartilage, and receives additional fibres from the posterior ligament of the joint. The mus- cular fibres diverge as they pass downwards, and are inserted into the triangular surface of the tibia above the posterior oblique line. The tendon of the popliteus muscle occupies the groove on the outside of the femur in flexion only. lielations.—The popliteus is bound down by an aponeurosis, prhicipally derived from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. The plantaris and gastro- cnemius muscle, the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve lie upon its posterior surface. The three remaining muscles of this group are bound down together by a deep fascia, which extends between the tibia and fibula, and sepa- rates them from the soleus. The flexor longus digitorum pedis muscle, or flexor perforans, arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, in a space extending from the oblique line to within three inches of the inner ankle ; it likewise arises in connection with the flexor longus pollicis, by aponeurotic fibres, which pass over the surface of the tibialis posticus. Its tendon descends in a groove behind the internal malleolus, lying on that of the tibialis posticus, and invested by a distinct fibrous and synovial sheath ; it is then directed under the arch of the os calcis, obliquely forwards and outwards, into the sole of the foot, crossing the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis inferiorly, and connected with it by a tendinous slip ; it then divides into four parts, which pass forwards to be inserted' into the terminal phalanges of the four smaller toes. Each digital tendon enters a fibrous sheath on the toe to which it belongs, perforates the corresponding tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum, and is invested with synovial membrane, and connected by vincula accessoria to the phalanges; the whole arrangement being essentially the same as tliafc which has been already described in the fingers. Relations.—It rests upon the tibia and upon the inner surface of the tibialis posticus, the tendon of which it also crosses about two inches above the ankle.