642 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES AND GANGLIA. Inferior Hssmorrlioidal Nerves.—These slender nerves proceed from the back part of the pelvic plexus. They join with the nerves (superior hsemorrhoidal) which descend Avith the inferior mesenteric artery, and penetrate the coats of the rectum. Vesical Plexus.—The nerves of the urinary bladder are very nu- merous. They are directed from the anterior part of the pelvic plexus to the side and lower part of the bladder. At first these nerves accompany the vesical blood vessels, but afterwards they leave the vessels, and subdivide into minute branches before perforating the muscular coat of the organ. Secondary plexuses are given in the male to the vas deferens and the vesicula seminalis. The nerves of the vas deferens ramify round that tube, and communi- cate in the spermatic cord with the nerves of the spermatic plexus. Those furnished to the vesicula seminalis form an interlacement on the vesicula, and some branches penetrate its substance. Other filaments from the prostatic nerves reach the same structure. Prostatic Plexus.—The nerves of this plexus are of considerable size, and pass onwards between the prostate gland and the levator ani. Some are furnished to the prostate and to the vesicula seminalis ; and the plexus is then continued forwards to supply the erectile substance of the penis, where its nerves are named " cavernous." Cavernous nerves of the penis.—These are very slender, and difl&cult to dissect. Continuing from the prostatic plexus they pass onwards, beneath the arch of the pubes, and through the muscular structure connected with the membranous part of the urethra, to the dorsum of the penis. At the anterior margin of the levator ani muscle the cavernous nerves are joined by some short filaments from the pudic nerve. After distributing twigs to the fore part of the prostate, these nerves divide into branches for the erectile substance of the penis, as follows :— Small cavernous nerves (Miiller), which perforate the fibrous covering of the corpus cavernosum near the root of the penis, and end in the erectile suljstance. The large cavernous nerve, which extends forward on the dorsum of the penis, and dividing, gives filaments that penetrate the corpus cavernosum, and pass with or near the cavernous artery (art. profunda penis). As it continues onwards, this nerve joins with the dorsal branch of the pudic nerve about the middle of the penis, and is distributed to the corpus cavernosum. Branches from the foregoing nerves reach the corpus spongiosum urethrse. (Miiller, " Ueber die organischen Nerven der erectilen miinnlichen Geschlechtsorgane," &c. Berlin, 1836.) Nerves of the ©vary.—The ovary is supplied chiefly from the plexus prolonged on the ovarian artery from the abdomen; but it receives another offset from the uterine nerves. Vaginal Plexns.—The nerves furnished to the vagina leave the lower part of the pelvic plexus—that part with which the spinal nerves are more particularly combined. They are distributed to the vagina without previously entering into a plexiform arrangement; and they end in the erectile tissue on the lower and anterior part, and in the mucous membrane. Nerves of the Uterus.—These nerves are given more immediately from the lateral fasciculus prolonged to the pelvic plexus from the hypogastric plexus, above the point of connection with the sacral nerves.