MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 196 platysma myoides and by the mamma. The posterior surface rests chiefly on the pectoralis minor, and with that muscle forms the anterior wall of the axilla. Varieties.— The more important varieties of this muscle consist in the greater or less extent of its attachments to the ribs or sternum, and the greater or less union or separation of its clavicular, sternal, and costal parts. The clavicular part has occasionally been observed to be absent, or to be incorporated completely with the deltoid. The tendinous and fleshy fibres of origin of opposite sides sometimes meet and even decussate in front of the sternum. In some instances additional muscular slips take origin from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and in others the lov/er part of the muscle presents considerable deficiency. Sometimes also slips connect the great pectoral with the biceps muscle. The slips of connection with the latissimus dorsi have already been noticed. As closely related to the great pectoral muscle there may be noticed here the muscular band which has been observed by Wood, Struthers, Macalister, and others, passing from a fascial origin over some of the lower tme and upper false ribs to a very variable tendinous or aponeurotic insertion at some place along the inner border of the arm. or even as far down as the inner condyle of the humerus, and vfhich has been named cliondro-eintrocMearis. The pectoralis minor muscle arises from the upper margins and external surfaces of three ribs near their cartilages—usually the third, fourth, and fifth—and from the neighbouring parts of the intercostal aponeurosis. Its fibres converge to a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the anterior half of the inner border and upper surface of the coracoid process, in contact with the conjoined origin of the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles. llclations.—This muscle is covered by the pectoralis major, and forms a part of the anterior wall of the axilla. It crosses the axillary artery and brachial plexus of nerves. When the arm is much raised a portion of the muscle may be seen below the outer margin of the pectoralis major. VariefieJi.—The pectoralis minor is sometimes found split up or subdivided into as many pieces as it has of costal attachments. The place and number of the costal slips are subject to slight variation. The tendon of insertion is not unfrequently detached from the coracoid process, and carried on by the coraco- acromial ligament to the acromion process or some other neighbouring part. The subclavius muscle arises by a short thick tendon from the first costal arch at the junction of the rib and cartilage, close to the costo- clavicular ligament. From this tendon its fibres pass outwards and upwards, forming a rounded belly, which is inserted into the groove along the inferior surface of the clavicle, extending as far as the recess between the conoid and trapezoid parts of the coraco-clavicular ligament. Ik'lations.—The subclavius is covered in front by the costo-coracoid fascia, and is placed immediately over the axillary vessels and nerves. Varieties.—The subclavius is sometimes found to be without any attachment to the clavicle, being inserted into the root of the coracoid process ; or it may have a double insertion, the upper into the clavicle, the lower into the coracoid process. The serratus magnns muscle, placed upon the upper and lateral part of the thorax, between the ribs and the scapula, is attached anteriorly by nine fleshy angular slips to the first eight or sometimes nine ribs, two of these being connected with the second rib; it also derives some fibres from the aponeurosis covering the upper intercostal spaces. Posteriorly, the muscle, considerably narrowed, is attached to the line in front of the base of the scapula, and at the upper and lower angles of the bone into the flat surfaces which are excluded from the fossa of the subscapular muscle. The fibres are arranged in three sets.