82 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The spine of the scapula is a massive plate of bone projecting back- wards from the dorsum, and curving slightly upwards. It extends outwards and a little upwards from the internal border near its upper Fig. 69 a. Fig. 69 I. 1, glenoid liead ; 2, superior angle ; 3, inferior angle ; 4, spine ; 4, at the base, triangular smooth surface of the spine ; 5, acromion ; 6, coracoid process ; 7, supra- spinous fossa : 7', infraspinous fossa ; 1 to 2, superior border ; 2 to 3, posterior border or base ; 1 to 3, external or inferior border ; 10, is opposite the oval surface of origin of the teres major muscle ; 11, the oblique groove where the teres minor muscle rises ; 12, the rough ridge where the long head of the triceps rises ; 13, supra-scapular notch ; 14, is below the great scapular notch. Fig. 69 h.—Right Scapula from before. (A. T.) ^ ], 5, 6, and 13, as in fig. 69 : 5' articular facet on the acromion for the clavicle; 8, subscapular fossa ; 9, long, narrow surface, and 9', triangular rough surface, separated from the subscapular fossa and giving attachment to the upper and lower jiarts of the serratus magnus muscle. fourth, towards the middle of the neck of the scapula, and becoming gradually elevated towards its external extremity, it turns forwards and is continued into the acromion process. The upper and lower sur- faces are smooth, concave, of a triangular form, and form part respec- tively of the supra-spinous and infra-spinous fossae. It presents two unattached borders, the most prominent of which is subcutaneous and arises from the internal border of the bone by a smooth, flat, triangular surface, over which the tendon of the inferior part of the trapezius muscle glides, as it passes to be inserted into a rough thickening beyond. In the rest of its extent this border is rough, broad, and serpentine, giving attachment by its superior margin to the trapezius, and by its inferior to the deltoid muscle. The anterior or external border, short, smooth, and concave, arises near the neck of the scapula, and is continuous with the under surface of the acromion, surrounding thus the great scapular notch between the spine and the neck of the bone.