ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 158 the fifth. Thus to the second, or that of the forefinger, a thin fasci- culus of fibres passes from the trapezium, and another from the trapezoid bone ; the third receives one from the trapezoid, and from the OS magnum ; the fourth from the os magnum and also from the unci- form ; but the fifth is connected with the unciform only. The palmar ligaments are not so well defined ; there is a single band to each bone, except that of the little finger. There is likewise an interosseous band in one part of the carpo-metacarpal articulation, connecting the lower and contiguous angles of the os magnum and unciform to the adjacent angle of "the third metacarpal bone. This ligament is usually sur- rounded by a part of the general synovial membrane, but sometimes it separates the cavity between the unciform and two inner metacarpal bones from the rest of the joint. The first metacarpal bone is unconnected with the others, and is articulated with the trapezium by an external and an internal ligament, a capsular investment, and a distinct synovial membrane. METACARPO-PHALANGEAL AND INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. A.T. The rounded head of each of the last four metacarpal bones, being re- ceived into the slight hollow in the extremity of the first phalanx, is maintained in its position by two lateral ligaments, Fig. 144. an anterior ligament, and a synovial membrane. The lateral ligaments consist of strong fasci- culi of fibres, on each side of the joint, from the metacarpal bone to the contiguous extremity of the phalanx. The direction of the fibres is downwards and forwards. Fig. 144.—Longitudinal Antero-Posterior Section through the lower part of the radius, semilunar bone, os Magnum, Metacarpal Bone and Phalanges of the Middle Finger, to show the shape op the Articular Surfaces and Synovial Cav^ities between these several Bones. (A. T.) 1 1, synovial cavity of the wrist-joint ; 2, intercarpal cavity ; 3, carpo-metacarpal cavity ; 4, metacarpo-phalangeal cavity ; 5 and 6, phalangeal cavities ; 4', 5', and 6', the palmar fibro- cartilaginous plates which are attached to the base of the several phalanges ; 7, indicates the place of the tendons of the long flexor muscles ; 8, a transverse section of the anterior annular ligament ; 9 and 10, transvei'se retinacula, or vaginal ligaments of the flexor tendons on the first and s3cond phalanges. The anterior or palmar ligament, or rather fibrous plate, occupies the interval between the lateral ligaments on the palmar aspect of each joint; it is a thick and dense fibro-cartilaginous structure, which is firmly united to the phalanx but loosely adherent to the metacarpal bone. It is con- tinuous at each side with the lateral ligament, so that the three form one undivided structure which covers the joint, except on the dorsal aspect. Its palmar surface is grooved for the flexor tendon, whose sheath is connected to it at each side ; the other surface, looking to the interior of the joint, is lined by the synovial membrane, and