603 THE OBTURATOR NERVE. anterior and a posterior branch, which are separated from one another by the short adductor muscle. A.—The ANTERIOR PORTION communicates with the accessory ob- turator nerve, when that nerve is present, and descends in front of the adductor brevis and behind the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. It gives branches as follows. (a) An articular hrancU to the hip-joint arises near the thyroid membrane. (Ji) Muscular hranchcs are given to the gracilis and adductor longus muscles, and occasionally also others to the adductor brevis and pectineus. (^•) The terminal tioig turns outwards upon the femoral artery, and surrounds that vessel with small filaments. {(1) An offset at the lower border of the adductor longus communicates beneath the fascia with the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve, and with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve, forming a sort of plexus. Fig. 368.—The Lumbar Plexus from BEFORE, WITH THE DlSTRIBUTIOJT OP SOME OF ITS Nerves (slightly altered from Schmidt). -5- a, the last rib ; h, quadratus lum- borum muscle ; c, oblique and trans- verse muscles cut near the crest of the ilium and turned down ; d, pubes ; e, adductor brevis muscle ; /, pectineus divided and turned outwards ; g, adduc- tor longus ; 1, ilio-hypogastric nerve ; 2, ilio-inguinal; 3, external cutaneous ; 4, anterior crural; 5, accessory obtu- rator ; 6, obturator united with the ac- cessory by a loop round the pubes ; 7, genito-crural in two branches cut short near their origin ; 8, 8, lumbar portion of the gangliated sympathetic cord. B.—The POSTERIOR or deep part of the obturator nerve, having passed through some fibres of the external obturator muscle, crosses behind the short adductor to the fore part of the adductor magnus, where it divides into many branches, all of which enter those muscles, excepting one which is pro- longed downwards to the knee- joint. Fig. 368. (1'/) The muscular branches supply the external obturator and the great adductor muscle, with the short adductor also when this muscle receives no branch from the anterior division of the nerve. (&) The articular branch for the knee rests at first on the adductor magnus, but perforates the lower fibres of that muscle, and thus reaches the upper part of the popliteal space. Supported by the popliteal artery, and sending filaments around that vessel, the nerve then descends to the back of the knee-joint, and enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. (Thomson, London Med. and Surg. Journal," No. xcv.)