ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 2o0 s 2 the dorsal muscles are visible both from above and below. Two muscles are found in each space, except the innermost, in which there is only one Fig. 200, A.—The Dorsal Interosseous Muscles from above. I 1, 2, 3, 4, the several dorsal inter- osseous muscles : the final insertion of the extensor tendons into the phalanges of the toes is also shown in this figure. B.—The Plantar Interosseous Mus- cles FROM BELOW. 1, 2, 3, the tliree plantar interossei ; this figure also shows the long and short plantar ligaments, and the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus mus- cle into the first metatarsal bone. The dorsal interossei lie one in each interspace. Each muscle arises by two heads from the ad- jacent sides of two metatarsal l3ones ; their muscular fibres are attached pennately on the two sides of a central tendon which is inserted partly into the dorsal surface of the first phalanx and partly into the extensor apo- neurosis of the toe to which each belongs. The first two are inserted one on each side of the second toe ; the third and fourth are severally inserted on the outer sides of the third and fourth toes. At the proximal ends of each muscle there is an interval between the two origins giving passage to perforating arteries as in the hand. ThQ plantar interossei arise from the inner and under surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are severally inserted in a manner similar to the dorsal interossei, partly into the inner sides of the first phalanges of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and partly into the extensor tendons of these toes. Nerves.—The flexor brevis digitoram, the abductor, the flexor brevis pollicis, ^xnd the two inner lumbricales, are supplied by the internal plantar nerve ; all the other plantar muscles, including- the flexor accessorius and the interossei, are supplied by the external plantar nerve, Actions of the Muscles of the Iiog- and Foot There is only one muscle of the leg, viz.. the jwjjUfeug, which acts on the knee-joint alone. Its principal action is that of a rotator inwards of the lower leg ; and it is interesting to observe that, while inward rotation of the leg at the knee-joint occui's only in flexion, it is in that position only that the tendon of the popliteus lies in its groove on the femui'. It may here be observed that owing to the difference in the direction of the bend at the ankle, as compared with that at the wrist-joint, some confusion is apt to arise in the description of the action of the muscles of the leg upon the foot. As it is obvious from morphological considerations, that the anterior sur- face of the leg and the dorsal surface of the foot belong to the general crfetiwr surface of the limb, corresponding with the back of the forearm and the dorsum •of the hand ; and that the back of the leg and the sole of the foot belong in the ^me way to the general Jicxar sui-face corresponding with the front of the fore-