484 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The anterior occipital or transverse sinus (sinus basilaris) is placed at the fore part of the basilar process of the occipital bo?ie, so aa to establish a transYerse communication between the two inferior petrosal sinuses. OPHTHALMIC VEIN. The ophthalmic yein opens into the cavernous sinus. Its branches are distributed in the different structures contained within the orbit, in company with the branches of the ophthalmic artery : some small rami- fications arise from the eyelids, whilst others communicate with the angular branch of the facial vein ; and those which accompany the supraorbital artery have similar connections with the veins upon the forehead. All these branches, together with others arising from the lachrymal gland, from the different muscles, from the eth- moidal cells, and from the globe of the eye, severally named Fig. 308. Fig. 308.—Sketch op the Ophthalmic Vein, and of its Distribution and Com- munication WITH other Veins (altered from Hirschfeld and Leveille. A. T.) The orbit is opened from the outer side and the dissection is similar to that for dis- playing the ophthalmic artery (Fig. 253, p. 376) ; a, the optic ijerve before it enters the optic foramen ; h, the superior oblique muscle divided a little way behind its pulley e, the lachrymal gland lying upon the eyeball; cl, the insertion of the inferior oblique muscle ; e, foramen rotundnm ; /, sinus maxillaris, opened externally : I, the ophthalmic vein joining the cavernous sinus; 1, supraorbital branch; 2, muscular and lachiymal branches ; 3, ciliary; 4, anterior and posterior nasal or etlimoid ; 5, frontal ; 6, infra orbital; 11, facial vein ; 7, communication with the internal maxillary ; 8, external nasal ; 9, angular, communicating at 10, with the frontal and supraorbital; III, ex ternal jugular vein commencing at the junction of IV, the temporal, and V, the internal maxillary veins ; 11, meningeal branch ; 12, inferior dental; 13, muscular ; 14, com munication between the facial, malar and infraorbital; 15, jDlaced in the spheno-maxillary fossa above branches connected with the pterygoid plexus.