518 THE ABSORBENT VESSELS. some of the vessels passing through one or two glands usually found near the zygoma, whilst others enter those situated on the parotid gland ; all of them terminate in the lymphatic glands of the neck. The cranial lymphatics of the occipital set, accompanying the occipital artery, descend to the glands situated behind the ear, on and near the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and hence join the superficial lymphatics of the neck. Within the cranial cavity, lymphatic vessels have been demonstrated in the pia mater and in the arachnoid membrane. Distinct vessels have not been traced in the dura mater, nor have they been shown in the substance of the brain. The trunks of those derived from the pia mater pass out of the skull with the veins. In the substance of the brain and spinal cord, according to the observations of Robin and of His, i)er[vasciilar spaces or canals surround all the bloodvessels, even to their capillary ramifications, and are in communication with similar spaces and lymphatic vessels in the pia mater, and, according to Axel Key and Retzius, they maj?- be injected from the subarachnoid spaces. The delicate walls of these perivascular canals agree in their histological character with those of the capillary lymphatic vessels, and their cavity is filled with a clear lymph-like fluid, containing numerous lymph corpuscles (Robin, in Journ. de la Physiol., 1859, p. 537 ; and His, in Zeitsch. fur Wissensch. Zool., vol. xv. p. 127. See also- Vol. II. p. 572, of this work.) The superficial lymphatics of the face, more numerous than those of the cranium, descend obliquely in the course of the facial vein, and join the submaxillary glands, from six to ten in number, which are placed beneath the base of the lower maxillary bone ; a few of them in their descent pass through some glands situated on the buccinator muscle. The dee'p lymphatics of the face^ derived fi'om those of the temporal fossa and the cavities of the nose, mouth, and orbit, proceed outwards in the course of the internal maxillary vein ; and, having reached the angle of the jaw, they enter the glands in that neigh bourhood.