VARIETIES OF THE AORTIC ARCH. 351 3. The Vark'tie.'i in flic Aortic Arch itself, along with which must be inclurled those of the ductus arteriosus, are intimately connected with the mode of develop- ment of the fourth and fifth fcetal branchial arteries. The natural aortic arcli of man, and of all mammalia, is a left one produced by the persistence and develop- ment of the fourth left branchial arch : in birds it is the right arch which forms the permanent aorta ; and in reptiles both the right and left fourth arches remain patent. Here it may be proper to call attention to the Cfl»i2)lctc h/fovil tran.yws'if'ion, i. c., from right to left and vice versa, which affects the aortic arch and pulmonary vessels, as well as the other parts of the heart, vv^hen transposed with or without the transposition of other viscera. Several cases of this kind have been accurately recorded by various observers, and are usually unattended with any disturbance of the functions or otherwise unnatural condition of structure. There is. in fact, only a change of position, which may be best described by comparing it to that in which the natural parts would appear if viev\^ed by reflection from a mirror. Although this transposition gives rise to no perceptible lesion of fmiction, yet from the direction of the apex of the heart towards the right, and other differences from the natural position, its existence is capable of being ascertained during life. Fig, 244.—Diagram of the Fcetal Aortic Arches, showing their transforma- tions INTO THE PERMANENT VESSELS OP THE Mammal (after Rathke). A.T. A, to the right of the primitive arterial bulb, now divided into aortic and pulmo- nary stems, the latter in front ; a, the right, a', the left aortic roots ; A', the descending aorta ; on the right side, the double out- lines, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, indicate the five primi- tive branchial vascular arches ; on the left side, I, II, III, IV, mark the seat of the four branchial or pharyngeal clefts ; c, the place of division of the aortic arches into two anteriorly, between the common carotid arteries ; ce, the j)ermanent external caro- tids ; ci, the right, ci', the left internal carotids ; s, the right, s', the left subcla- vians ; v, tlie right, v\ the left vertebrals ; the fourth right arch forms the innominate trunk, and passes on to v and s, the right vertebral and subclavian arteries ; the fourth left arch passes to a' as permanent aortic arch ; P, pulmonary arteries springing from the fifth left arch, Avhich at d is continued into the left aortic root as ductus ai-teriosus; right, pn', left pneumogastric nerves. The permanent systemic arteries are repre- sented in deep shade. The aortic arch has been observed completehj doiible in two remarkable cases, known as those of Malacame and Hommel, and various less complete cases of a similar kind have been observed. Hommel's case admits of being explained on the supposition simply of both the right and left fourth branchial arches having remained pervious, and undergone equal development. The pulmonary artery was situated to the left of the main aortic stem ; the right and left aortic arches embraced closely the trachea and gullet in a ring, and each arch gave rise to a common carotid and subclavian artery in the order now mentioned. Malacame's case is different, and seems to have been complicated with some remarkable abnormal mode of development of the arterial stem. The two arches, as in Hommel's case, embraced the trachea and gullet, but they divided close to the heart, so as to receive the pulmonary stem between them ; and each gave rise to a subclavian, an external, and an internal carotid artery, in the order now stated,