THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. 443 terminal branches. In its course through the pelvis, the artery is placed between the pelvic fascia and the peritoneum, a little below the obturator nerve. Beneath the pubis it lies with its accompanying- vein and nerve in an oblique canal, formed partly by a groove in the bone, and partly by fibrous tissue, after passing through which it divides immediately into an external and an internal branch, which are deeply placed behind the external obturator muscle. Branches.—(a) Witli 'm tlioi)cli-\s, besides others of smaller size, the obturator artery often supplies a branch to the iliac fossa and muscle, and one which runs backwards upon the urinary bladder. (1)) Anastomotic vessels, which may be called^.'///y/V', are given off by the obtu- rator artery as it is about to escape from the pelvis : these vessels ramify on the back of the pubis, and communicate behind the bone and the attachments of the abdominal muscles, with small offsets from the epig-astric artery. These anasto- mosing branches lie to the inner side of the crural ring. Fiir. 284. Pig. 284, A. and B.—Views OF THE Left Wall of the Pelvis, with the attached abdominal muscles from the inside, showina dif- ferent positions of the Aberrant Obturator Ar- teries (from R. Quain). ^ In A, a case is represented in which the aberrant artery passes to the outside of a femoral hernia ; in B. an in- stance is shown in which it surrounds the neck of the sac. a, posterior surface of the rectus muscle ; h, iliacus in- ternus muscle ; c, symphysis pubis ; d, obturator mem- brane ; e, placed on the fascia transversalis, points to the vas deferens passing through the internal inguinal aperture ; /, the testicle ; +, the neck of a femoral hernial sac ; 1, the external iliac artery ; 2, tlie ex- ternal iliac vein ; below 2, the obturator nerve ; 3, the deep epigastric artery; 4, aberrant obturator artery, arising from the epigastric. (c) The 'internal terminal branch curves inwards be- neath the obtui-ator exter- nus, close to the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, and fm-nishes branches to the obturator muscles, the gracilis, and the adductor muscles. (d) The e.vternal terminal branch has a similar arrangement near the outer margm of the thyi-oid foramen ; it descends as far as the ischial tuberosity, and supplies the obturator muscles, and the upper ends of the long muscles which are attached to that tuberosity. This branch usually sends off a smaU artery, w^hich enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, and ramifies in the synovial fatty tissue, and along the round ligament as far as the head of the lemui-.