179 TAllSO-METATAllSAL ARTICULATIONS. the two bones a distinct articulation is formed by cartilaginous sur- faces ; it is provided sometimes with a separate sjiiovial membrane, at others with an oifset from that which belongs to the scapho-cnnciform articulation. The three cuneiform bones are connected by transverse dorsfd Vuja- meuts and strong infcrosseous fibres ; the latter being their most efficient uniting structures. A transverse plantar ligament exists only between the two innermost bones. The articulations between these bones are lined by offsets from the synovial membrane of the joint between them and the scaphoid bone. Articulation of the Tarsus with the Metatarsus.—The four anterior bones of the tarsus, viz., the three cuneiform and the cuboid, articulate with the metatarsal bones ; and as the first and third cunei- form bones project beyond the middle one, and the third cuneiform beyond the cuboid bone, the anterior surface of the tarsus is very irregular. The first metatarsal bone articulates with the internal cuneiform ; the second is wedged in between the first and third cunei- form, and rests against the second ; the third metatarsal bone articu- lates with the extremity of the external cuneiform ; and the last two with the cuboid bone, the fourth having also an attachment to the external cuneiform. The articulations are furnished with synovial mem- branes, and the bones are held in contact by dorsal, plantar, and in- terosseous ligaments. The dorsal tarso-metatarsal ligaments are flat thin bands of parallel fibres, which pass from behind forwards, connecting the contiguous extremities of the bones before mentioned. Thus the first metatarsal bone receives a broad thin band from the corresponding cuneiform bone; the second receives three, which converge to its upper surface, one passing from each cuneiform bone ; the third has one from the external cuneiform bone ; and, finally, the last two are bound by a fasciculus from each to the cuboid bone, and by fibres to the external cuneiform from the fourth metatarsal bone. The plantar ligaments are less regular ; the bands of the first and second toes are more strongly marked than the corresponding ligaments on the dorsal surface ; and those of the fourth and fifth toes, which are merely a few scattered fibres passing to the cuboid, receive support from the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle. Ligamentous bands stretch in an oblique or^ transverse direction from the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones, and from the external cuneiform to the fifth metatarsal. The interosseous ligaments run obliquely between the bones, and from their strength and deep position oppose great resistance to the knife in separating the metatarsus from the tarsus, a. The intrrnal and largest of these extends from the outer side of tlie first cunei- form bone, to the neighbouring side of the second metatarsal, close to the articular surface. J). The external interosseous ligament sepa- rates the articulation of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones from the rest. It connects the outer side of the external cuneiform bone to the same side of the third, and very strongly to the inner side of the fourth metatarsal, c. Occasionally some fibres, of less strength and importance than the preceding, are observable on the outer side of the second metatarsal bone, connecting it to the middla cuneiform. N 2