THE DIAPHRAGM. 311 abdomen are separated only by a small quantity of loose connective tissue. The anterior fibres of the diaphragm are much the shortest. The fibres of the sternal and costal slips, after being* united, rise in an arched and converging manner to be inserted into the anterior and external margins of the central tendon. d. The central tendon—trefoil or cordiforni tendon, is a strong aponeu- rosis, forming the central and highest part of the diaphragm. It is elongated from side to side, and consists of three loles or alee, partly separated by indentations. The right lobe is the largest; and the left, which is elongated and narrow, is the smallest of the three. The central tendon is surrounded on every side by the muscular portion of the diaphragm, the fibres of which are directly continuous with those of the tendon. The tendinous fibres cross one another, and are inter- woven in various directions. Foramina.—There are in the diaphragm three large perforations for the passage respectively of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the vena cava, besides some smaller holes or fissures which are less regular.— a. The foramen for the aorta {hiatus aorticics), placed in front of the vertebrae, is bounded by tendinous fibres of the crura as already de- scribed. Besides the aorta, this opening transmits the thoracic duct, and generally also the vena azygos. d. The foramen for the oeso- phagus, higher and farther forward than the preceding, as well as a little to its left, is separated from that opening by the decussating fibres of the crura. It is oval in form, and is generally entirely sur- rounded by muscular fibres ; in some rare cases, however, a small part, the anterior margin, is found to be tendinous, being formed by the margin of the central tendon, c. The opening for the vena cava (foramen quadratum) is placed in the highest part of the diaphragm, in the tendinous centre at the junction of the right and middle alge, poste- riorly. Its form is somewhat quadrangular ; and it is bounded by fasciculi of tendinous fibres running parallel Avith its sides. Besides the foregoing large foramina there are small perforations through the crura for the sympathetic and splanchnic nerves on both sides, and for the vena azygos minor on the left side. Moreover, the larger azygos vein often takes its course through the right cms. Relation.s.—Th.e tipper or thoracic surface of the diaphragm is highly arched. Its posterior and lateral fibres, ascending from their connection with the lower margin of the thorax, are for a considerable extent placed close to the ribs, the lungs, especially in their collapsed condition, not descending so far as their attachments. The vault of the diaphragm rises higher on the right than on the left side. On the right side in the dead body it rises to the level of the fifth rib at the sternum, and on the left side only as high as the sixth. This difference has relation to the great size and firmness of the liver on the right side. It is covered superiorly by the pleura and the pericardium ; the fibrous layer of the latter membrane blending with the tendinous centre, as well as with the fascia covering its muscular substance. The lovv^er sui-face, of a deeply concave form, is lined by the peritoneum, and has in apposition with it the liver, the stomach, the pancreas and spleen, and the kidneys. Nerves.—The intercostals, subcostals, levatores costarum and triangulai-is sterni are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The diaphragm is supplied by the I)hrenic nerves from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and likewise by sympa- thetic filaments from the plexuses round the phrenic arteries. Actions.—Movements of Respiration.—The mechanical act of respiration