SEMIMEMBRANOSUS. 233 popliteal space, resting on tlie semimembranosus, and curves for^yards to be inserted in an expanded form into the upper part of the tibia at its inner side. There the tendon is on the same plane with, but below that of Kg- 186. the gracilis, both being under cover of the sartorius. A thin oblique tendinous intersection traverses the muscle about the middle. Fig. 186.—Deep Muscles of the RianT Hip AND Thigh, from behind. (A.T.) ^ a, anterior, a', posterior superior spine of the ilium ; h', posterior inferior spine ; c, c, great and small trochanter ; d, symphysis pubis ; e, tuberosity of the ischium ; /, popliteal surface of the femur ; g, head of the fibula ; 1, gluteus minimus ; 2, obturator internus : the gemelli muscles have been removed ; 3, obturator ex- ternus ; 4, small part of the back of the pectineus and adductor brevis ; 5, origin of the adductor magnus from the lower part of the ischial tuberosity ; 5', 5', line of insertion of this muscle on the linea aspera, in which are seen three arched tendinous intervals for the passage of the perforating vessels ; 5'', tendon of insertion into the inner tuberosity of the femur; between the lower 5' and 5", the inter- val through which the femoral vessels pass into the jjopliteal space ; the upper 5' is placed upon the cut end of the quadratus femoris ; 6, vastus externus ; 7, vastus internus ; 8, femoral head of the biceps femoris : the lower part is represented as passing too far inwards ; 8', its ischial head, cut short; 9, plantaris muscle : at its upper end the outer head of the gastrocnemius; the figure 5", is upon the cut inner head ; 10, pop- liteus, cut short beloAv; 11, tendon of the semi- membranosus; 12, upper part of the soleus. The semimembranosus arises from the tuberosity muscle of the ischium, above and to the outside of the origin of the biceps and semi- tendinosus, by a strong flattened ten- don, two or three inches long, which, as it descends in front of the common tendon of those two muscles, passes to their inner side. The muscle pre- sents inferiorly a thick fleshy belly, ending in a short flattened tendon, which is inserted in three parts : the principal part turns forwards and is inserted into a well-marked groove on the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, some of its fibres joining that ligament; a' second part, passing downwards and outwards, expands in the aponeurosis over the popliteus muscle ; and the remaining~fibres are directed upwards and outwards, and blend with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint.