MUSCLES OF THE PEEIXiEUM. 332 . bule; again approaching eacli other in front, they become narrow, and Fig. 231. Fig. 231.—Muscles of the Perin.eum m THE Female. (A. T.) ^ a, clitoris ; b, cms clitoridis ; c, is placed in the vestibule above the orifice of the urethra ; d, vagina ; x, anus ; c, coccyx ; 1, external sphincter ani muscle ; 2, sphincter vaginae; 2', a few of its fibres prolonged to the clitoris ; 3, levator ani ; 4, on the left ischial tuberosity, points to the transversus perincei (the inner fibres of this muscle are represented too far forwards in the figure) ; 5, 6, ischio-cavernosus ; 7, gracilis; 8, adductor magnus and semi- tendinosus, &c. ; 9, gluteus maximus. are inserted upon the corpora caver- nosa of the clitoris, a fasciculus crossing over these and including the vena dorsalis. The two halves of this elliptical muscle appear to correspond strictly to those of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle in the male. A deep transverse muscle, corresponding to part of the constrictor urethra3 of the male, has been described as resting on the pubic surface of the female urethra. THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE FASCIA AND MUSCLES OP THE TRUNK AND HEAD. Fasciae.—There is a general correspondence in the relation of the deep fascia to the skeleton and masses of the trunk muscles throughout vertebrate animals. In its simplest and lowest form the general investing fascia is prolonged from the surface towards the skeleton in four places, viz., two median, which have heen called respectively the neural and lucmal septa, and two lateral, one on each side, running towards the transverse jirocesses of the vertebras. The layers of the hasmal septum are in close contact in the caudal region, but they are .separated and somewhat complicated in the rest of the trunk by the intei-po- t~ition of the visceral cavity between them. In man and the higher animals the dorsal part of the general investing fascia is represented by the tendinous attachments of the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, and serrati postici muscles, and by the vertebral aponeurosis and deep temporal fascia, while the deep fascia of the side and front of the trunk, neck, and head and the aponeurotic sheath of the limbs correspond with its ventral portion. The neural septum remains as the median fascial interval of the dorsal spinal muscles, ligamentum nuchas, kc The hsemal septum partly constitutes the linea alba, and is elsewhere separated into two as an investment of the visceral cavity, forming the transversalis, iliac, and pelvic fasciffi. The lateral septum, which is strongly developed in fishes and amphibia, is only seen at all clearly in the middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis of man and the higher animals, being in them situated much nearer the dorsal than the ventral aspect of the body. This difference of position is coincident with the greater development of the ventro-lateral muscles and the limbs in.the higher than in the lower vertebrates. Muscles.—The dorm-lateral muscle consists of fibres which more than any others retain their original segmented character and longitudinal direction. It is represented in man by the mass of muscles, the chief of which is the erector spinffi, which lies m the vertebral groove of the back, and which, arising from the lower vertebrae, splits up as it passes forwards to be inserted into other vertebrse, the ribs and the skull. It may be divided into three sets of muscles, characterized by the different direction of their fibres. The iirat set consist of those which run