MEDICAL OPINION ON THE IMPORTANCE OF TEACHING PHYSIOLOGY AND THE LAWS OP HEALTH IN COMMON SCHOOLS. {Extracted from the fourth Annual Report of William's Secular School, Edinburgh.) Our opinion having been requested as to the advantage of making the Elements of Human Physiology, or a general knowledge of the laws of health, a part of the education of youth, we the undersigned have no hesitation in giving it strongly in the affirmative. We are satisfied that much of the sickness from which the working classes at present suffer, might be avoided ; and we know that the best-directed efforts to benefit them by medical treatment are often greatly impeded, and sometimes entirely frustrated, by their ignorance and their neglect of the conditions upon which health necessarily depends. We are therefore of opinion, that it would greatly tend to prevent sickness and to promote soundness of body and mind were the Elements of Physiology, in its application to the preservation of health, made a part of general education ; and we are con- viuced that such instruction may be rendered most interesting to the young, and may be communicated to them with the utmost facility and propriety in the ordinary schools, by properly instructed schoolmasters, Thomas Addison, M.D., Senior Physician, and Lecturer on the Practice of Physic, Guy's Hospital, &c. James Alderson, M.D., P.R.S., FeUow, Curator, and Lumleian Lecturer to the Royal College of Physicians. J. MoNCRiEF Arnott, F.R.S., Member of the Council and of the Court of Examiners of the Royal College of Surgeons, &c. Neil Arnott, M.D., P.R.S., Physician Extraordinary to the Queen, Member of the Senate of the University of London. Benjamin Guy Babington, M.D., P.R.S., Physician to Guy's Hospital, &c. T. Graham Balfour, M.D., Surgeon, Royal Military Asylum. William Baly, M.D., Lecturer on Forensic Medicine at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, &c. Archibald Billing, M.D., F.R.S., Member of the Senate and Examiner in Medicine, University of London, &c.