HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 8 DESCRIPTION OP THE CHIEE MUSCLES ON THE ERONT FIGURE. PLATE 2. 1. The broad muscle of the Scully or the Occipito Frontalis. 2. The three muscles for moving the Ear, or the Aural muscles. 3. The circular muscle of the Eye, or the Orbicularis Palpebrarum. 4. The muscle to raise the upper Eyelid, or the Levator Palpebrse. 5. The four muscles of the Nose, or the Nasal muscles. 6. The circular muscle of the Lips, or the Orbicularis Oris. 7. The muscles to raise the upper Lip, or the Levator Labii Superior. 8. The muscles to depress the lower Lip, or the Depressor Labii Inferior. 9. The muscles for drawing up the corners of the Mouth, or the Levator Anguli and Zygomatic muscles. 10. The muscles for drawing down the corners of the Mouth, or the Depressor Anguli Oris. 11. The muscles for lessening the cavity of the Mouth, or the Buccinator muscles. 12. The muscles for drawing up the lower .Taw, or the Masseter and Temporal muscles. 13. The muscles for drawing down the lower Jaw, or the Digastricus. 14. The muscles to turn and bend the Head, or the Mastoideus muscles. 15. The thin muscle of the Neck, or the Platysma Myoides muscle. 16. The muscles to draw the Shoulders forward, or the great Serratus muscles. 17. The muscle for raising the Arm at the Shoulder joint, or the Deltoid muscle. 18. The muscles for drawing the Arm towards the Chest, or the Great and Little Pectoral muscles. 19. The muscles for bending the Pore Arm, or the Biceps and Brachialis muscles. 20. The muscles for bending the Pingers, or the Deep and Superficial Plexors of the Eingers. 21. The muscles for turning the Palm of the Hand up and down, or the two Supinators and two Pronators. 22. The muscles for causing quick movements of the Pingers, or the Palmar muscles. 23. The muscles to draw up the Ribs in breathing, or the Intercostal muscles. 24. The muscles to draw down the Ilibs and compress the Abdomen, or the Oblique and Straight Abdominal muscles. 25. *The muscles to bend the Thigh on the body, or the Psoas {a) and Hiac muscles {b). 26. The muscles to straighten the Leg, or the Rectus Eemoris {c), the Rectus Cruris (/), the Yastus Externus {d), and Vastus Internus muscles {e). 27. The muscles for crossing the Legs, or the Sartorius muscles. 28. The muscles for bending the Foot, and extending the Toes, or the Eront Tibial, the Peroneal, and Long and Short Extensor muscles of the Toes. 29. The muscles for causing quick movements of the Toes, or the Dorsal and Plantar muscles. 30. The annular, or ring-like ligament of the Poot. The superficial muscles are supposed to be removed from the left side of the figure, in order to show those beneath them. * On the side diagram is intended to show the contraction of the muscular fibre.