OF THE LATERAL OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 203 patient recovered. This stone is a great deal larger than the greater number of urinary calculi; the average weight of which does not exceed 2 or 3 ounces. The passage is too small only when the lateral operation has been unskilfully performed. If the reader shall take the trouble of perusing what has been stated as to the prostate gland, he will be convinced, by Dechamps’s observations, that a stone, of very considerable diameter, may be extracted by the lateral method of 'operat- ing ; and a very large stone may be extracted by the high operation, whilst the patient is not exposed to the risk of a communication being established between the rectum and bladder of urine. “ An incision which divides the anterior part of the sphync- ter ani, the membranous part of the urethra, in the middle line of its anterior (inferior) parietes, the neck of the bladder, the prostate and fundus of the bladder in the same line, does not approach any large vessel, or other part, important to life. The depth of the wound being less than by other me- thods, the surgeon is enabled to penetrate further into the bladder, to ascertain the form, size, and situation of the stone, previous to his grasping it for extraction.” This observation is undoubtedly correct; but the greater distance between the external parts and the bladder, is no ob- jection to the lateral operation of lithotomy, as the inner sur- face of the bladder of the adult may be reached by the fore- finger of most operators, if the patient be not very fat. “ By the recto-vesical operation, we are enabled to extract the largest stones, without the inconvenience of laying bare the peritonaeum, and of exposing the surgeon to the risk of wounding it, or of the danger of extravasation of urine.” By this method of operating, no considerable artery is opened ; but the large veins, coming from the penis, which, on entering the pelvis, form a plexus, which covers the pros- tate gland, may be wounded, and from these a good deal of blood may be lost. The trunk of the internal pudic artery is so situated, and so well protected by the os ischium and ligamentous mem-