OF THE UTERUS OR WOMB. 219 The uterus is largely supplied with arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatic vessels. The uterus is very largely supplied with blood, by the sper- matic and uterine hypogastric arteries, the branches of which describe a tortuous course, and freely anastomose with each other. The spermatic arteries arise, as in the male, from the fore part of the aorta, between the renal and inferior mesenteric arteries, or from the renal artery; they describe a tortuous course behind the peritonaeum, are distributed upon the ovaria and fundus uteri, and anastomose repeatedly with the uterine hypogastric arteries, which are distributed chiefly up- on the fundus uteri. At the period of puberty, the female constitution undergoes a most remarkable change. To use the expressive language of Dr Harvey, “ coloratior evadit, mammas protuberunt, pul- chrior vultus evadit, vox canora, incessus, gestus, sermo, om- nia decora Aunt.” Before the menses appear, there is an increased determina- tion of blood to the womb, in the same manner as the female quadruped comes in heat. The girl feels a sense of fulness in the region of the groin ; hairs appear in the axillas, and on the pubes ; the mammae swell out; the bones of the pelvis are ex- panded ; and the womb, which had been somewhat rounded, assumes a pyramidal form ; the vagina and mons veneris become larger, and the menses appear. Before menstruation has been established, a whitish fluid is discharged from the vagina at irregular periods ; the girl has a sense of uneasiness about the stomach and loins; and she fre- quently has nausea, vomiting, colicky pains, peculiar nervous sensations, and a strong pulse; and, after a short time, the menses suddenly appear. In this country, menstruation generally occurs between the thirteenth and sixteenth years; but, with regard to the time, much depends on peculiarity of constitution, education, kind of life, and climate. ' In Greece and Asia, the menses sometimes appear when the girl is only nine or ten years old ; in Lapland, they do 3