ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 330 impressions of light, the acoustic nerve those of sounds, the olfactory nerve those of different odours. It is well known, that certain painful sensations are often con- nected with peculiar nerves; as with the superciliary infra-orbi- tar, portio dura of the seventh pair, the sciatic nerve, and oc- casionally with the nerves of the arm and under-limbs. I have also seen such sensations connected with the par vagum; in one such instance they were accompanied by stricture of the gullet; and I observed an evident enlargement of the par vagum, in its course along the gullet. It has been already noted, that painful affections of the nerves of the fingers and arm are sometimes excited, by external injury, and also bv tumour connected with the substance of the nerves. The manner in which the paroxysm begins is a striking ex- ample of disordered sensation. It comes on with an achinor in the nose, or slight tingling in the finger or toe, which runs up along the arm or leg, towards the head; and there are some persons who describe these sensations as being like to an electrical shock. In some, the progress of the pain is gradual, in others very rapid. The division of the nerve has been said to remove the agony of the patient, but this does not always afford relief, which may be owing to the communication between the seat of the dis- ease and the brain not having been completely intercepted. The relief given is more generally only of a temporary nature, owing to a reunion of the divided portion of the nerve. That a divided nerve is reunited by a real nervous substance, is evi- dent from the functions of that nerve being, after a time, re- stored, as has been proved by the experiments of my Father, Dr FIaichtox, Mr Ciiuickshank, and others, and also by the failure often attending the operation of dividing the nerve, from which very painful sensations arise. Meyer has sup- plied us with a direct test. The medullary substance is not acted upon by the nitric acid, which destroys the neurilma; thus we can distinguish whether the medium of union between Lhe divided nerves be real nervous substance or not. The relief is more certain when a piece of the nerve has