379 OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The tuber is imbedded upon the back-part of the body of the sphenoid and cuneiform process of the occipital bone. / Upon removing a portion of the surface of the tuber, in the direction of its greatest diameter, we meet with alternate streaks of brown and white matter, disposed in a transverse direction; but on going deeper, the fibres are placed in an oblique direction, and in the direction of the crura cerebri. Of the Medulla Oblongata. The medulla oblongata connected with the tuber annulari, is somewhat in shape like a Florence flask ; the broader end of which, next the tuber, is somewhat contracted, and seems as if it had been begirt by a cord. On each side of the medulla oblongata there is a projection, which has been named improperly Corpus pyramidale. On introducing the handle of the scalpel into the depres- sion in the middle of the medulla oblongata, and separating the corpora pyramidalia, the decussation of the fibres of the cor- pora pyramidalia of opposite sides may be distinctly observed. From the medulla oblongata, the spinal marrow or spina] cord is continued. On the outer side of each pyramidal body, there is a pro- jection in shape somewhat like a small olive, divided longitu- dinally, which has been called Corpus olivare: its long dia- meter is directed upwards and downwards. On shaving down the corpus olivare to a level with the medulla oblongata, we find a light brown coloured substance, with a serrated edge of a darker coloured substance, which has been called Corpus dentatum. To the portions of the medulla oblongata, behind the cor- pora olivaria, the names restformia have been applied. The medulla oblongata is a very important part of the nervous system, for when compressed by effused blood or other causes, death speedily follows. This probably is owing to the nerves proper to those bowels on which life more immediately de- pends, being connected yvith it. Behind the corpora restiformia, the smaller pyramidal bodies are placed.