422 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. A pci son who squints uses only one of his eyes at the same time, and in those who have long had this bad habit, the eye not used becomes imperfect. The muscles of the eye lose the power ol giving the eye a proper direction : there is a want of correspondence between the actions of the mus- cles of both eyes; and according to the degree of imper- fection in the action of the muscles of the eye, there is a greater or less degree of squinting. There are ajso in- stances in which persons squint only when looking at near objects. It may be added, that squinting is sometimes occasioned by using one eye much more than the other. Thus those who use the telescope much, often squint; they use one eye very much, but not the other, the muscles of which lose their cor- responding action. From what has been stated, it is obviuus, that squinting, proceeding from certain causes, may be removed by the use of a paper cover, blackened on the inner side, by which the per- son is compelled to use his eye, and to direct it properly, if the remedy be employed in due season, and for a sufficient length time, so that the muscles shall regain their proper mode of action ; but if squinting be owing to absolute im- perfection of the eye, there is no chance of removing it. The fat which is lodged within the orbit, is of a very particu- lar description: it is much finer than that of the other parts of the body ; it serves as a defence and cushion to the several parts of the eye contained within the orbit. The quantity of fat in the orbits is various. If accumulated m an unusual quantity, it renders the eye-ball very prominent; but if, on the other hand, it be in part removed, as happens in many diseases, the eye sinks within the orbit. There are other causes which occasion the displacement of the eye, as tumours in the orbit, exostoses, and the enlargement of the superior maxillary and frontal sinuses. OF THE NERVES OF THE EYE-BALI., AND ITS APPENDAGES. Hesides the optic nerve which has been above described, the eye-ball, and its muscles, arc supplied by the third,