OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ANEURISM. 253 Within these two years the same operation has been per- formed with success, by Mr Coats, and is described by him in the following manner : “ I cut down on the left superior thyroideal artery, and having dissected it from its accompanying nerve, by means of a bent probe, I passed under the vessel a small round liga- ture, which was drawn moderately tight, and tied. “ The ligature separated on the ninth day, and the wound was completely healed on the fourteenth. “ Her breathing was much improved, and the size of the tumour reduced nearly a half*.” Great danger must attend the throwing a ligature around the subclavian artery, before it passes between the scaleni muscles, for the par vagurn and phrenic nerve lie above the artery. On the left side of the body, the thoracic duct is si- tuated in front of the artery, in its course to the subclavian vein. The phrenic nerve and par vagum pass before the ar- tery, and the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve is placed behind, and, on the right side, the recurrent nerve passes round that artery. Professor Colles of Dublin has made the subjoined very judicious observations, on taking up the subclavian artery be- fore it has passed between the scaleni muscles. “ To lay bare the right subclavian artery before it reaches the scaleni, will not be found difficult by any surgeon posses- sed of a steady hand, and a competent knowledge of anatomy ; but I fear that, with the utmost dexterity, much difficulty will be experienced in passing and tying the ligature around it, even in the most favourable case. This operation, diffi- cult on the right, must be deemed impracticable on the left subclavian artery; for, the great depth from the surface at which this vessel is placed, the direct course which it runs in ascending to the top of the pleura, the sudden descent which it makes from this to sink under the clavicle, and the danger of including in the same ligature the eighth pair of nerves, the internal jugular vein, or the carotid artery, which all run • Medico-Chir. Trans, of London, vol. x. p. 31-1.