103 OF RESPIRATION. gularly ; and the contraction of the heart and arteries remain- ed strong, until the end of ten minutes, when they began to di- minish gradually in force and frequency, and at the end of fifteen minutes from the beginning to inflate they ceased entire- ly ; nor could we renew the contractions of the heart, although we forced into the left ventricle a great quantity of aery florid blood. On examining the heart we found that the strongest stimu- li, either chemical or mechanical, would not produce the smal- lest motion on its fibre's. This was repeated on two other dogs, with nearly the same effects. One important conclusion from this experiment is, that the quantity of irritability which the heart contains, independent of its communication with the brain, is sufficient to enable it to carry on the circulation for some time ; and another is, that artereal blood will exhaust this irritability more completely than any other stimulus. “ Experiment 3.—I repeated the second experiment upon a dog, in all the circumstances, as far as the removal of the sternum, and with the same general effects. As soon as the sternum was raised, and the trachea detached, I inflated the lungs with fixed air, in the same manner as I did in the other experiment with atmospheric air. The blood, which passed by the left auricle of the heart became immediately dark co- loured ; the heart contracted feebly for four or five times, and then ceased. We continued these alternate inflations for some minutes after, and saw the left auricle and ventricle greatly distended with blood, but they contracted no more. I ap- plied the point of my knife to the heart, and it contracted in a convulsive manner. I then emptied it of its black blood, and applied other stimuli to it, and it contracted feebly for some minutes. “ This was repeated on another dog, and with the same effect. “ a third dog also I repeated the same experiment ; and as soon as the heart had ceased to contract, and appeared distended with this black blood, I emptied the lungs of their fixed air, and distended them with common atmospheric air, 3