27 OF THE HEART. Tovbtelle * saw at Besangon a child with an opening in the lower part of the chest, through which the heart protrud- ed nearly to the navel. In all the above cases, where the heart was exposed, the individuals died soon after birth ; but when the heart was co- vered, life continued. Kamel-j* has described a case of a girl, nine years of age, in which the heart was situated in the epigastric region; and I have met with one instance in which the heart lay on the outer side of the ribs. There are some instauces in which the heart was situated in the abdomen. Mr Wilson has described an instance, in which the heart was imbedded within the substance of the livei’, and it was found to consist of one auricle and one ventricle only. Baudeloque examined the body of an infant, in which there were two distinct hearts; the one situated in the ab- domen, the other in the thorax ; and there were vessels pas- sing between them. The infant died soon after birth. The size of the heart varies very much in different indivi- duals, and still more at different periods of life; generally speaking, the younger the individual the larger the heart in proportion to the rest of the body. In general, the size of the heart bears a ratio to the size of the individual, being propor- tionally larger in the tall and robust male than in the shorter and more delicate female. But the above remark is liable to many exceptions; and it may be also remarked, that the strength of the pulse is not an index to the size or thickness of the muscular w?alls of the heart. The human heart is a hollow muscle, somewhat of a coni- cal form, and when its cavities have been filled, it resembles in shape the half of a cone or half of a sugar-loaf. The upper and anterior surface of the cart is convex, and is opposite to the breast-bone and cartilages of the ribs; but the posterior surface is flat, and lies upon the tendon of the diaphragm. In the upper surface of the heart, there is usual- Jouro. de Med. tom. Ixii. + Ibid. tom. xlix.