ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 294 grade course, and reaches the spine of the os ilium ; and, as it ascends, divides into branches, which supply the internal ob- lique and transverse muscles of the abdomen, and communi- cate with the lumbar and ilio-lumbar arteries, and with the inguinal branch of the arteria profunda femoris. This artery also gives branches to the psoas, sartorius and iliacus internus muscles, and small branches to the inguinal lymphatic glands. Of the Femoral Artery and its Branches. The femoral artery, covered by the fascia lata, surrounded by fat and the lymphatic glands of the groin, lies over the ball of the thigh-bone, and covers the corresponding vein ; is afterwards lodged in the hollow at the upper and inner part of the thigh, having the adducter muscles on the inner side, and the rectus and sartorius on its other side. There are large anastomoses between the branches of the anterior and posterior iliac arteries, by the branches of the gluteal, internal pudendal, obturator, and ischiatic arteries; hence a ligature may be thrown around the anterior iliac ar- tery, without a risk of gangrene following. Mr Abernethy, in the year 1796, took up the external iliac artery. His two first cases terminated fatally : they however proved, that the want of success was not to be attributed to the want of a due supply of blood. In his surgical works, vol. i. p. 242., he has thus described his mode of operating: “ I first made an incision, about three inches in length, through the integuments of the abdomen, in the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which I next divided from its connection with Poupart’s ligament in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the inter- nal oblique and transverse muscles being thus exposed, I in- troduced my finger beneath them for the protection of the peritonaeum, and then divided them. Next with my hand I pushed the peritonaeum and its contents, upwards and in- wards, and took hold of the external iliac artery with my fin-