STIMULANTS INJECTED INTO THE STOMACH. 109 fall, rather than pushed into the glottis: and through this tube, by a proper syringe applied to it, air may be with cer- tainty blown into the lungs. I observe, that some such mea- sure had been proposed by Mons. Lb Cat in France ; but I have not learned that it has ever been put in practice, and I am afraid it may be attended with several difficulties, and must be left to the discretion of surgeons, who may be pro- perly provided and instructed for this purpose.” The injection of stimulants into the stomach is also a power- ful auxiliary. In my Thesis de Dysphagia, published 1797, I have de- scribed, at considerable length, and also represented by an en- graving, an apparatus, which is adapted not only to the injec- tion of stimulants into the stomach, but also to the extraction of these from the stomach, after they have been thrown in, and have mentioned cases in which that instrument had been employed by myself: one of the cases was very striking. A woman afflicted with palsy of the gullet in our hospital, re- ceived her nourishment by that instrument for five years. Mr Jukes has lately published a description of an appara- tus subservient to a similar purpose. From what has been stated in respect to the lungs, it fol- lows that these must be very liable to fall into a diseased state ; and also that it is more difficult to remove diseases of the lungs than of most of the other bowels. This is owing to the inhalation of noxious particles, to- gether with the air into the cells of the lungs, and to expo- sure to sudden alternations of cold and hot air. Inflammation of the lungs is extremely frequent in our variable climate; and the lungs, when so diseased, bear a strong resemblance, in consistence and colour, to the liver, being redder than the healthy lungs, and so solid as to sink in water. rIhe inflammation is on some occasions general, on others partial; and the inflamed part is frequently covered by a layer of coagulable lymph, the thickness of which varies in different cases, by which the lungs arc firmly fixed to the pleura costalis. I he inflammation of the lungs is often accompanied by an