100 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. llie blood is much changed during its passage through the lungs. When it enters the lungs, it is of a dark red or purple colour, intermixed with the white chyle. When it leaves the lungs, it has a bright red hue, and all traces of the chyle have disappeared. When it has reached the smaller branches of the arteries, it begins to recover the tint peculiar to it when it first entered the heart; and when at last it has reached the smaller branches of the veins, it has completely regained its purple colour. These are the greatest changes which the blood is at pre- sent known to undergo during its circulation. Future obser- vations, in a more advanced state of chemical science, will pro- bably determine the precise changes it suffers in composition. That there is such a change is pretty certain, from a circum- stance we are soon to mention, namely, that venous and arte- rious blood differ in their capacity for caloric. This cannot be produced without a very material alteration in chemical composition. Lower seems to have been the first author who attributed the florid colour of the blood to the chemical action of the air on it during its passage through the lungs, which opinion he took up from experiments on animals: he observed the black colour of the blood in the pulmonary veins after respiration had ceased, and red colour of the blood when respiration was renewed. If we inquire by what part of the respired air this change of colour is produced, we shall find that it is owing to the effect of the oxygen. Dr Priestley found, that the same changes take place in the colour of the blood out of the body, and even through the coats of the vessels, as when oxygen gas is applied to the veins of the back of the hand. Dr Mayow of Oxford concluded that a volatile spirit, one of the constituent principles of the atmosphere, teas absorbed bp the blood during its passage through the lungs ; an opi- nion which was adopted by Borelli and Willis. Dr Goodwyn’s experiments have thrown further light on this subject: he removed the breast-bones of several large dogs, and exposed the trunks of the pulmonary arteries and veins,