OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 257 that bone, by which it is well protected from external injury, and in its course gives small branches to the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and subclavian muscles. Near to the humeral end of the collar-bone, this artery di- vides into branches, the largest of which lies under the tra- pezius muscle ; and, after passing through the notch in the superior costa of the scapula, divides into many branches, which are spent upon the muscles placed on the back part of the scapula, and anastomoses with the arteria dorsalis scapulae inferior. The origin of this artery is very different in different indi- viduals : sometimes it arises from the thyroid artery, and being occasionally of considerable size, may, in its progress along the back part of the collar-bone, be mistaken for the subcla- vian artery. The arteries called superior-intercostal, are also branches of the subclavian; they are placed over the head of the first and second ribs, and at length reach the intercostal spaces. These arteries send branches to the gullet and spinal cord, and they anastomose with the inferior intercostal arteries. The trunk of the subclavian then passes over the flat sur- face of the first rib into the axilla, where it is covered by the corresponding vein, and is surrounded by the axillary plexus of nerves, lymphatic glands, and fat; and in that situation, the artery is called axillary. It is protected by the great pec- toral muscle, and also by the tendinous portion of the lesser pectoral muscle. I received lately from Mr Hunter, one of the surgeons to the Hospital of this city, a portion of the axillary artery which had been lacerated during life, in consequence of the person having fallen from a considerable height. Owing to the effu- sion and coagulation of blood in the axilla, there was no pul- sation whatever to be felt in the radial artery of the same side, before the patient’s death. It is remarkable, that the axillary artery, where the arm has been torn off, discharges but a small quantity of blood, owing probably to the contortion of the arm. VOL. II. R