ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 402 optic nerves in the case of a person who, for several years be- fore his death, had lost the use of one of his eyes. The optic nerve describes a tortuous course to the orbit, and is contracted where it enters the sclerotic coat, in which there are a number of small holes. The central artery runs in the axis of the optic nerve. The optic nerve enters the eye-ball rather nearer to the nose than the axis of the eye-ball; and is expanded into a very de- licate pulpy substance, which is nearly transparent in the eye immediately after death, called by anatomists Retina. The retina consists of a thin £lane of medullary matter, which, du- ring life is nearly transpai'ent, but when put into spirits, be- comes like ground glass: it extends as far forwards as the great- er diameter of the capsule of the crystalline lens, between the choroid coat and capsule of the vitreous humour. The retina is not of an uniform thickness; it is consider- ably thicker at its posterior than at its anterior part, and is in immediate contact with the choroid coat, but does not adhere to it by cellular substance, nor to the capsule of the vitreous humour. The retina is very thin, especially under the ciliary proces- ses, to which it is glued, and by which it is impressed, so as to have a striated appearance. “ The retina, at its connection with the vitreous humour and crystalline, is remarkably tougher than it is in, any other part; or it seems to adhere there, to the anterior layer of the capsule of the vitreous humour, by cellular threads, or per- haps by the pia mater, which accompanies the nerves, in their whole progress. <{ In consequence of the termination of the retina being extended to the crystalline lens, it is evident, that, in couch- ing, the surgeon must, before he reaches the lens, wound the retina with his needle; and if he afterwards depresses the cap- sule, along with the body of the lens, or if a needle is passed around the lens, in order to detach it from the neighbouring parts, as has been advised *, the anterior edge of the retina must be lacerated, and very much injured. • Mr du WSN2BL junior on the Cataract, sect. xvL