23 OF THE BLOOD. proportions of the serum and eruor differ in different animals; in common, there are three parts of cruor to one of serum. The coagulation of the blood takes place in the open air, and in close vessels; whether the blood be allowed to cool, or be kept at the temperature at which it is when it flows from a vein; facts which I believe were first ascertained by my Father. During the coagulation, a sensible quantity of heat is evol- ved. If, before coagulation has taken place, the blood be placed under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump, air- bubbles are disengaged, according to Darwin, and which, ac- cording to Vogel, are carbonic acid. Dr Duncan/mw. made an experiment lately, which, in my opinion, proves, that no air is extricated during the coagulation of blood exposed to the pressure of the atmosphere. Fie opened a vein of the arm, filled a Florence flask with blood, which he inverted over a dish full of blood. The blood within the flask coagu- lated in 'the usual time, but no air was found in the upper part of the vessel. Of the Serum. The serum is of a light green-colour; and its mean speci- fic gravity is about 1.02S7. When heated to the tempera- ture of 156°, it coagulates : it has then a greyish-colour, and somewhat resembles the boiled white of an egg; and from the coagulated serum the more watery part may be pressed out. Alcohol, acids and tan, and, according to Mr Brande, the negative wire in the interrupted galvanic pile, coagulate albumen. If coagulated serum be heated in a silver vessel, the surface of the silver becomes black : hence serum contains sulphur; and, according to Proust, the sulphur is combined with am- monia, in the state of a hydro-sulphuret. The serum of the blood also contains Soda. That portion of fluid which remains after coagulating albumen, has been called the Scro-rity. Mr Bauer lately detected globules in the serum, and saw them generated in the fluid he was examining: these are quite different from the-Ted globules.