319 OF THE NERVES. transverse direction, in respect to the principal nervous cord, extending from the one extremity of the animal to the other. Decapitation proves fatal to man, but the head of a turtle or frog may be cut off, and the animal continues, for a time, to live; and even rabbits for some time survive decapitation, if care be taken to prevent the loss of blood, and to inflate their lungs. But the union of the nerves, with a common centre, is not essential, in all animals, to sensation and life. Some of the lower animals, as Polypi, may be divided in- to a number of parts, and each part is capable of living, and is, in truth, a perfect and sensitive animal. Mr Dalyell has well observed, (Observations on the Pla- narue,) “ deadly wounds, to the majority of the creation, only serve to awaken in them the active principle of an inexhaus- tible reproductive power. The perpetuation of their race is effected by means the most remote from those that usually regulate the origin of animated existence;—a shapeless frag- ment is disjoined from the body of the parent; it remains in quiescence, more resembling the state of death; but new or- gans are gradually evolved, motion is resumed, and all the qualities successively displayed which belonged to the primi- tive whole.” The word origin is applied to that part of a nerve which is next to the brain or spinal cord, before it has passed into the sheath which is given by the dura mater. As to the origin of the nerves, there is great diversity of opinion amongst anatomists, and to me it seems, that a pre- conceived theory has often blinded even the brightest orna- ments of anatomy. As the brain and spinal cords are fibrous, and the nerves are also fibrous, to me it seems as impossible to say, where the fibres of the brain terminate, and those of the nerve begin, as it is to determine the origin of the fibres connected with the root of a plant. It is no doubt true, that some nerves seem to be inti- mately connected with certain protuberances of the brain or smaller brain, and that some nerves penetrate deeper into the