ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 334 brain ; hence there is the same influence in the fibres of the heart, determined from the brain to the muscles. If the muscles be touched by an irritating substance, as a saline body, or the nerve which runs to the muscle be touched with the same, the same effects are produced, whether we touch the muscle immediately, or the nerve, or the brain from which it receives its influence. It may be also observed, that when, in consequence of an injury done to the brain, the patient is deprived of sensation and voluntary motion, those actions which are performed by organs which are not under the dominion of the will, as the stomach and heart, still go on for a considerable length of time; but, if the nerves proper to these involuntary organs be divided or compressed, these actions cease in a very short time. Dr Wilson Philip (Chap. III.) *, has endeavoured to prove, that the power of the muscular fibre is independent of the nervous influence, and that the muscles of voluntary mo- tion bear the same relation to the nervous system, which the heart and bloodvessels do, namely, that their power is inde- pendent of this system, although they are influenced through it; the only difference being, that they are always excited by the nervous influence, while the heart and bloodvessels are only occasionally so. In a former part of this work-f*, I endeavoured to explain how far the functions of the arteries are under the influence of the nerves. But it remains to be considered whether we are to adopt the opinion of Beuzelius, that the secretions of ani- mals depend upon the nerves. From the anatomy of the monster described by my Father, it is proved that secretions do not depend upon the brain ; for, in that instance, there was no head ; and, in the case men- tioned by Mr Lauhexce +, the child lived for four days, where there was neither brain nor cerebellum ; and the secretions from the stomach, intestines, and kidneys were quite natural. The circumstance of the bronchi of an animal, whose eighth pair of neeves has been divided, being always filled by a frothy • On the Vital Functions. T Vol. ii. p. 57. $ Med. Trans. Chir. of London, vol. v.