ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 548 distinguishing the lymphatic vessels from the smaller branches of the arteries or veins. The discovery of this system was accidental, and made at different times, by Huubec in Sweden, in the year 1G62; by Barthoi.ine, Dr Joliffe, and Pecquet. Much is due to Asellius, who discovered the lacteal ves- sels in a kid, and who had correct views as to the functions of these vessels: for he opened the animal three hours after he had given it food, and saw the lacteal vessels upon the mesentery distended. It is plain he did not comprehend the course of the vessels he had discovered, as he confounded the groups of lacteal glands, at the root of the mesentery, with the pancreas. The original authors upon the lymphatic system conceived, that this system was an appendage to the arteries, to which the previous discovery of the circulation of the blood, by Dr Wtlliam Harvey, probably gave rise. Harvey had demonstrated, that the veins communicate with, and receive blood from, the arteries, which led anato- mists to suppose, that the lymphatic vessels had a similar origin with the veins conveying red blood; and when the microscope shewed that an artery, and its corresponding vein, constituted one reflected tube, all doubt was removed as to the origin of the lymphatic vessels. The opinion received great weight from anatomical injec- tions ; for a watery liquor, quicksilver, or melted wax, flows from the arteries into the lymphatic vessels, and from the fact, that the lymphatic vessels sometimes contain blood; hence the inference, that there were lymphatic arteries, and corresponding lymphatic veins, or that the lymph was circu- lated in a manner similar to the blood. Such was the state of matters when my Father and Dr Wilt.iam Hunter took up a very different opinion. They have endeavoured to prove the lymphatic vessels to be un- connected with the circulating vessels, and to be absorbing vessels. To me it would be extremely painful to enter into the controversy which was so warmly carried on between Dr Hunter and my Father, as to the merit of this discovery.