ELEMENTS OF ANATOM V. 208 ly. It may be observed, that it is of much moment to have the groove in the staff wide and deep, that it may be the more easily distinguished. Another assistant supports the scrotum. The operator, being seated on a firm stool between the thighs of the patient, which are to be separated and kept so by assistants, begins his incision, providing his patient be an adult, an inch and a half under the arch of the pubis, and continues it parallel to the descending ramus of the os pubis and ascending ramus of the os ischium, so far down as that it shall be about half an inch lower than the tuberosity of the ischium, and between three and four inches in length. The incision should be very nearly half way between the anus and tuberosity of the os ischium ; so that, at its upper part, it falls in upon the side of the corpus spongiosum ure- thrae and bulb of the urethra, and into that triangular space between the bulb and the crus penis. By this procedure, there is little risk of injuring the bulb of the urethra, or the trunk of the pudendal artery ; and suf- ficient space is given for the extracting a stone which exceeds the average size : an incision of such a length supersedes the necessity of enlarging the external incision, renders it easy to extract the stone, and prevents the parts from being bruised or torn by the forceps, which frequently proves the cause of death. The first incision, the object of which is to divide the skin, cellular substance, tendinous membrane of the peri- nseum, and subcutaneous fat, should be made in the axis of the pelvis: by the next, the transversal is, and levator ani muscles, and branch of the pudic artery which enters the bulb, are to be divided; and, in the same direction, and du- ring the time the incision is made, the bulb should be pressed to one side. Before dividing the above muscles, it is prudent, by the fore finger of the left hand, to press down the rectum, lest it be cut. Upon the above muscles being divided, the groove of the stafF within the membranous part of the urethra may be felt by the finger. This may be readily divided bv a short