ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 44 angle, or two trunks are united by a transverse branch, as in the anterior cerebral arteries; and in the case of the basilar artery of the brain, there is an example of two trunks unit- ing, to form a trunk larger than either of the vertebral arteries which form it. The anastomoses are much more frequent in the smaller than in the larger ramifications of the arteries, and in the more minute arteries are so numerous, as to form a very inti- mate network. The purpose of anastomosis is to prevent obstruction ; so that, if the course of the blood shall be obstructed in one ar- tery, it may continue to flow through a neighbouring anasto- mosing branch. It is of great moment for students to be intimately ac- quainted with the anastomoses of the arteries around the joints. From the more intimate knowledge which surgeons have ac- quired of the anastomoses of the arteries, that part of the prac- tice of surgery relative to the treatment of diseased arteries, has been of late much improved. About a century ago, when the iliac, or even femoral artery, or the subclavian arteries, were diseased, nothing was attempted for the relief of the patient; but now ligatures are thrown around these large and import- ant arteries, and the disease is often cured ; for thus the circu- tion does not cease, but is continued by the medium of the lateral anastomosing branches of the arteries, which become very considerably enlarged, and follow somewhat of a tortuous course. Sir A. Coofer has lately ascertained that, though a liga- ture be thrown around the lower part of the aorta, the blood still continues to flow to the inferior extremities. Of Varieties as to the Size of the Arter ial System. The arteries of the body gradually increase with the bulk of the body ; and when the size of a part varies, so does that of the artery proper to it. These varieties are temporary or permanent. The gravid uterus affords an example of the former. As that organ in- creases in bulk, its arteries are much enlarged ; but, after