OF THE FOETAL CIRCULATION. 117 itk, Imperfections, from malconfonnation, or from simple immaturity. 5th, Obstruction of the nostrils by the membranes, occur- ring chiefly when the whole conception is on a sudden dis- charged in a mass. Soon after birth, the blood generally ceases to flow through the foramen ovale and canalis arteriosus, the umbilical artery and vein. I have already stated, that, in some instances, those pas- sages by which the blood is diverted from the lungs remain open, which malconfonnation during life is characterised by peculiar symptoms: these are, however, sometimes absent, owing to the simultaneous contraction of the auricles, and by the two valves of the foramen ovale being pressed together by the auricles, by which the communication between the auricles is almost obliterated. When the air has entered the lungs at the first inspiration, the air-cells of that organ are considerably expanded, and the blood passes through the pulmonary artery in greater quanti- ty- Lastly, The child may be destroyed, during labour, from the pi-emature delivery of the umbilical cord, and from con- tinued pressure on it, or from that cord being twisted around the neck, in which case, according to Mr Hutchinson, there is a spiral livid mark around the neck *; or it may die from bleeding, from rupture of the cord or separation of the pla- centa. • But it may be doubted whether this mark will invariably assume the ap- pearance that has been described. I have frequently examined the appearance of the neck in persons killed by hanging. That part of the skin in the front of the neck, which had been impressed by the rope, has a light-brown transparent aspect, like horn ; the veins upon it are much distended with blood of a deep purple colour; and the cuticle is raised here and there. The mark upon the 3kin ends, on each side, in a narrow point below the ear, and does not extend across the back part of the neck. The thyroid cartilage of the larynx is some- what flattened.