OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 297 obturator artery. Small branches of this artery also anasto- mose, upon the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, with those of the gluteal artery. The internal circumflex then passes behind the lesser tro- chanter, and is subdivided into many small branches, some of which sink into the substance of the triceps adductor fe- moris, others supply the quadratus femoris, and obturator in- ternus muscles. A descending branch of this artery passes outwards from beneath the quadratus femoris, anastomoses with the branches of the ischiatic artery, and terminates upon the semimem- branosus, semitendinosus, and adductor muscles. The circumflex arteries also anastomose with the arteries of the periosteum. The branches proper to the periosteum, are derived from the external circumflex, which enters the cruralis muscle, and which anastomose with other branches which come under the vastus internus muscle. About the middle of the thigh; a considerable branch is deri- ved from the arteria profunda, which is distributed upon the periosteum, and which divides into ascending and descending branches ; the former of which join with the smaller branches of the external circumflex artery, and the latter with the su- perior articulating oranches of the popliteal artery ; and also with a branch derived from the popliteal artery, which is dis- tributed upon the periosteum, covering that part of the thigh- bone in the vicinity of the condyles. In a patient operated upon by Sir A. Cooper, for popli- teal aneurism, the femoral artery was converted into a cord, from the origin of the arteria profunda, down to the ham. The arteria profunda was considerably enlarged; it followed its usual course to the back of the thigh, and sent branches, of a larger size than usual, to the flexor muscles; and those branches which accompany the sciatic nerve, were the princi- pal supporters of the new circulation. They were five in num- ber. The external circumflex artery was considerably larger than usual, for the supply of branches to the muscles on the