447 MUSCLES OF THE EAR. is composed of two ridges, between which, a cavity some- what like a boat is placed. Between the helix and antihelix, there is a cavity, which has been called innominata. Under the antihelix, there is the large cavity of the ear called the concha, which is divided into two unequal fossae, by a ridge of cartilage, which ends in the back part of the lobe of the ear. On the fore part of the concha, there is a portion of carti- lage called tragus, which, when pressed inwards, covers the meatus auditorius externus. Opposite to the tragus, there is a prominent portion of cartilage, which is placed at the lower portion of the antihelix: this, from being opposite to the tra- gus, has been called the antitragus. The cartilage of the ear is covered by a very fine skin, which is kept flexible by means of a number of glands situ- ated under it, which secrete a sebaceous substance; and in the meatus auditox-ius externus, there are a number of glands which secrete the wax of the ear, hence called glandules ceruminosee. The external ear has several thin muscles fixed into it, which take their rise from the neighbouring parts, and which are intended for raising it, pulling it backwards, and drawing it forwards ; but there are few who'possess the power of throw- ing all these muscles into action. There are also implanted upon the cartilage of the ear, a number of fibres, which, in robust persons only, have a red- dish colour, and which have been supposed to give tension to the external cartilage of the ear. These muscles are five in number, and have been so named from their situation. The muscle which raises the external cartilage of the ear, has been called the Attollens aurem. This muscle takes its rise from the tendinous aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle; and it is fixed into the upper part of the ear, opposite to the antihelix. By this muscle the external ear is raised. The external ear is drawn forwards by a thin muscle, which takes its origin from the posterior part of the zygoma, and is fixed into the back of the helix; and the ear is drawn back- wards by three distinct portions of muscular substance, which 3