OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. 495 much from acute pricking pain, in her neck. She died in the course of three months, very much emaciated. Dr Home requested of me to examine the body, in order to ascertain, whether there were any morbid appearances which could account for the acute pricking pain, with which the patient had been so long affected. I did so, and found a very considerable enlargement of the par vagum on each side of the gullet, which extended as low down as the cardiac ori- fice of the stomach, which was encircled by a scirrhous tu- mour. 2d, The Superior Laryngeal Branch descends between the pharynx and carotid artery, and divides into an external and internal branch; the former of which joins with the inter- costal nerve. The interior branch creeps along the margin of the thyroid cartilage, and its branches are distributed upon the epiglottis, the membrane of the pharynx, the arytenoid muscles, and arytenoid gland. The exterior branch, called by Scarpa the Pharyngo-laryngeal, anastomoses with a gan- glion of the sympathetic; and from this junction of nerves small branches are sent, which supply the constrictor mus- cles : it ultimately terminates upon the thyroid gland, and the mucous membrane which lines the larynx. The laryngeal nerve not only adheres to the olivary gan- glion of the great sympathetic nerve by cellular substance, but also receives a soft and nervous matter from the above named ganglion. That the sound of the voice is very much influenced by the nerves, is a fact universally admitted; but it remains yet to be ascertained, whether it depends chiefly upon the recur- rent branch of the eighth pair, or upon the laryngeal nerve. Most authors are of opinion, that it depends chiefly upon the former ; but, in my opinion, it depends also, to a certain ex- tent, upon the latter nerve, the laryngeal. The pressure and irritation of tumours upon the eighth pair of nerves, produces a remarkable loss as to the strength of the voice. This circumstance may be observed to happen from an aneurism of the arch of the aorta, or from the same disease of the carotid artery, or from an enlargement of the