OF VENESECTION. 269 is a sac between the vein that had been opened and the sub- jacent artery, which communicates with both. It is seldom required to perform any operation for the cure of aneurismal varix, or varicose aneurism, as these diseases often remain stationary for a number of years. In consequence of wounds, communications have been formed between neighbouring arteries and veins, as between the subclavian artery and its corresponding vein, according to Larry ; and between the popliteal artery and its corres- ponding vein, according to Boyer and Lassds. But it more frequently happens, when the humeral artery has been wounded during venesection, that the blood does not find its way into the superincumbent vein. It escapes into the cellular substance behind the vein, and between the mus- cles. The flow of blood is stopped by the formation of a clot over the orifice of the wound in the artery, in consequence probably of the pressure that has been applied. The lips of the wounded artery are united by the effusion of lymph, and the wound of the skin over the artery also heals: thus the blood is prevented from diffusing itself through the adjacent cellu- lar substance, and the tumour attains but a small size, and is circumscribed. But owing to the obliquity of the wound of the humeral artery, the blood sometimes insinuates itself into the cellular substance for some distance from the orifice of the humeral artery : the whole arm assumes a purple colour, and mortifi- cation follows. The former has been called the circumscribed, the latter, the diffused false aneurism. The false aneurism occasioned by a wound of the hume- ral, may readily be distinguished from the more rare form of the disease called true, (as it does not originate from an in- jury), by the following symptoms: In the former, the tumour makes its appearance immedi- ately after the vein has been opened ; and as the aperture in the wounded artery is very small, the blood cannot be forced back into it; and therefore the bulk of [the tumour is not di-