Ill DISEASES OF THE LUNGS. A substance similar in colour and consistence to the spots on the surface of the lungs, is sometimes formed upon the sur- face, or within the substance of the different bowels; and even within the muscles and bdnes. This substance when minutely examined, is not found to be invariably of the same colour : it is in some instances very like to powdered charcoal and water, in others it has a purplish or reddish hue, and it is contained in distinct cysts of different sizes, varying much in point of size. These cysts are in many instances grouped to- gether, and bear no distant resemblance to a bunch of dark purple grapes, and in some instances have distinct narrow necks. I have also seen the black substance intersected by a num- ber of white lines of a pulpy consistence. The black matter is deposited in the manner above descri- bed, on the bones, serous membranes, in the cellular mem- brane, or within the eye ball and substance of the. healthy vis- cera, does not give rise to any one morbid symptom. But it is often deposited when the patients were at the same time afflicted by fungus haematodes, or scirrhus. This disorder is not peculiar to man. Mr Burt, veterinary surgeon, assures me, that he had often seen it in horses on the continent, and Dr Hannay informs me that this disorder occurs among horses and swine in the Stewartry of Kirkcud- bright. I owe my first acquaintance with this disorder to the late Mr A. Burns of Glasgow, who shewed me the eye of a child filled by it. Soon afterwards, (about sixteen years ago), I saw a portion of the liver, about the size of a shilling, filled with a substance, very like to China ink. The patient, a child of eight years of age, died from fungus haematodes of the eye. I have since seen the black matter in a fluid state, when it very much re- sembled the ink of the cuttle fish : it was contained in distinct cysts of different sizes, which were imbedded within a scirrhous mamma, which had been extirpated. Mr P. Syme, in the year 1808, made for me a beautiful drawing of the deposition of this black matter in the substance of the lungs, part of which had attained the consistence of cartilage.