ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 558 There are valves probably at the origin of the lymphatic and lacteal vessels, which prevent in the latter case an injec- tion from being forced from the cavity of the intestine into the lacteal vessels. The valves have been stated by some authors to render these vessels stronger; but if this opinion were well founded, they should be more numerous in the thoracic duct than in any other of the lymphatic vessels, as it contains the greatest quantity of chyle, and therefore is most apt to be ruptured; which is not the case. It is to be taken into account, that the greater thickness of the coats of the thoracic duct also tends to prevent the rupture of that tube. The valves are intended to prevent the retrograde flow of the lymph; hence the pressure of the adjacent muscles, and pulsa- tion of the neighbouring arteries, contribute to impel the lymph towards the heart; if there had been only a few valves in the course of the lymphatic vessels, external pressure would have had less effect in propelling the lymph onwards. The valves in the lymphatic vessels of the liver do not per- form their office so accurately as in other lymphatic vessels, so that the smaller branches of these lymphatic vessels may be filled fi'om the larger. A pair of valves is always found, where a lymphatic vessel terminates in the thoracic duct, or in a vein which conveys the red blood, to prevent the blood from flowing into the lym- phatic vessel. The lymphatic vessels of fishes have no valves, so that it is possible to fill the smaller from the larger branches ; a circum- stance which enabled my Father to discover the orifices of the lymphatic vessels upon the surface of the skin of the skate. On the outer side of the valves of the lymphatics, there is a sac or pouch, similar to that which is found opposite to the valves of the veins which convey the red blood, whereby the lymph gets readily between the valve and the side of the lym- phatic, to shut the valve. In consequence of the valvular structure of the lymphatic vessels, they seem as if formed by the union of a number of cones.