OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 559 He has stated that he discovered the structure of these glands by injections with wax and quicksilver, in a subject at Berlin, in the beginning of November 1756, in which the lacteal vessels were enormously enlarged where there was a hernia, in the same manner that the red veins become varicose, when the return of blood to the heart is not free. In justice to Albinus, my Father adds, that he had been informed by Dr Reimartjs, that this very ingenious anato- mist proposed in his lectures nearly what he had described; but when my Father visited Albinus, he told him that he could not prove his opinion as to the structure of the lympha- tic glands ; it was only a conjecture. In the larger quadrupeds, as the horse and ass, according to Cruickshank and Abernethy, cells are seen in the glands connected with the lymphatic system. There are many bloodvessels distributed upon the external coat of the lymphatic glands, which serve probably not merely to form the covering of the glands, but also to secrete a fluid, which is mixed with the lymph in its progress through the glands. We are still much in the dark as to the functions of the glands connected with the lymphatic system. We cannot yet determine, for example, how far the mesen- teric glands are subservient to nutrition. Morgagni supposed that there was a muscular coat proper to these glands, for the purpose of propelling on the absorbed fluids, but this opinion is not supported by anatomy. Dr Hendy supposed that the vessels of the conglobate mesenteric glands secrete a fluid, which tends to dilute the lymph. The lymphatic glands have been supposed to purify the lymph by straining it, and also to form the central parts of the red globules of the blood; but these are mere supposi- tions unsupported by any proof. It has been matter of dispute, whether or not the lympha- tic glands are supplied with nerves. Wrisbebg has affirmed that nerves enter into, and are distributed upon, the substance of these glands; whereas Walter, in his Preface to his work on the nerves of the thorax and abdomen, has affirmed, that