ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 314 ing, C. Bell, Cuvier, Seures, and Tiedemann, have thrown much light upon the structure of the nervous system of man and the inferior animals; and a new impulse has been given to investigations relative to the functions of the nervous system by the brilliant discoveries of Wilson Philip, Bro- die, and C. Bell, and which have paved the way to the de- tection of some singular facts by Rolando, Flourens, Foe- dera, and other authors. As all animals possess the sense of feeling, and the greater number the power of locomotion, there is reason to conclude, that all are provided with nerves, though those in the hydatid, polype, and other animals, are not obvious to our senses. In many of the lower animals we see cords, somewhat of a whitish colour, extending from the head to the tail of the ani- mal, and connected to each other in their progress. In the slug, lobster, and leech, the nervous system is exhi- bited in a very simple form. There is no brain; there are mere- ly a number of cords, and ganglia connected with them, which may be traced from the head to the opposite extremity of the animal; hence the conclusion, that a brain is not es- sential to the functions of the nervous system, but a super- added part necessary to certain classes of animals only. In the classes Mammalia, Birds, Fishes, and Amphibia, the nervous system is more complicated in its apparatus: a cer- tain portion of the nervous system is lodged within the skull; the form, size, and relative situation of the protuberances and cavities of that part varies in these different classes; and there is a large cord passing down through the spine, which has been called the Spinal Cord. Anatomists divide the nervous system of these animals in- to a larger and smaller brain, a medulla oblongata, medulla spinalis, nerves, and ganglia connected with these; and the various nerves are connected with the brain or spinal cord. It is proposed, in the first place, to direct the attention of the reader to the Nerves, as these sometimes exist even in the human body, independently of the brain, and are capable of exercising their functions independently of it. This very striking fact may be obvious by a few examples.