226 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The nymphae consist of cellular substance, sebaceous glands, and bloodvessels, serpentine small branches of the pudic ar- tery, and corresponding veins, inclosed within a duplicature of skin. On separating the nymphae, an orifice presents itself about an inch below these, viz. tlie orifice of the urethra; and, imme- diately under it, the orifice of the vagina is placed, which in a virgin is surrounded by the membrane called Hymen, which is a thin membrane of a circular or semilunar form. There is great variety as to the thickness and form of the hymen in different women : sometimes it is imperforated, in consequence of which the menses are retained behind it; or it is bifid, or trifid. The hymen has been stated to be peculiar to the human race; but according to Cuvier, it exists in some quadrupeds. The existence of the hymen has been considered as a test of virginity ; it is ruptured in the first act of coition, and the remnants of it have been called Processus myrtiformes. The hymen is sometimes so thick that it cannot be rup- tured, and prevents intercourse between the sexes, and is, at the same time, imperforated : hence the menses are retained behind it, which gives rise to a considerable tumour. Below the orifice of the vagina, and between it and the transverse fold of skin, by which the lower part of the labia externa are united, there is a small cavity, somewhat in figure like a boat, which hence has been called the fossa navicu- laris. The external organs of generation of the female are sup- plied with blood by the branches of the pudic artery. The nerves of these organs are derived from the pudic nerves. The lymphatic vessels of the external female organs of ge- neration pass into the lymphatic glands of the groin; and those at the sides of the pelvis pass into the iliac, and then into the lumbar lymphatic glands. In old age, the mons veneris is much less prominent; a great part of the hair falls off, and what remains is grey and straight.