DEATH FROM VENESECTION. 271 the symptoms. They have been supposed to be owing to an inflammation of the vein, to the injury done to the subcuta- neous nerve, to the prick in the tendon or tendinous fascia, to the inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, or to that of the subcutaneous cellular substance. That the symptoms may be in many instances imputed to an inflammation of the vein that has been opened, seems obvi- ous, from the symptoms which preceded death, and from the appearances upon dissection. The inflammation of the vein varies in degree, and is more or less rapid. Inflammation generally travels with a quick pace along serous membranes, and along the internal coat of a vein; but in some cases, it is slow in its progress. Dr Home told me, he had a patient, in whom the inflammation ascended and descended from the part of the vein that had been opened, at the rate of about an inch every day. It is well known, that the jugular vein of the horse is often inflamed after it has been opened, but the animal seldom dies, even though there be at the same time a great deal of matter formed in the neck: the vein becomes closed by coagulable Ivmph. Many men, however, have died after bleeding, though the vein be obstructed, a circumstance not easily to be explained : the obstruction seems to arrest the progress of the inflamma- tion in the horse. The similarity of the symptoms preceding the death of some individuals who have died after a vein has been opened, to those which accompany tic doloureux, and other disorders commonly supposed to originate from nervous irritation, seem , to point to the nerves as the source of all the mischief. The patient tells his surgeon he has used a rusty lancet; he feels very acute burning pain following the track of the nerve; this is at one time much more acute than at another; the breathing is much affected, the heart palpitates; convulsions and death follow. All this presumptive is converted into po- sitive evidence, by making a transverse incision into the course of the nerve, which often gives instant and perfect relief; or, in cases of puncture, by amputating the finger; and if one or 3