OF THE ANGULAR ARTERY. 243 rvnx, upon the tonsils, tongue, palate, and inferior maxillary gland. Small branches are also sent to the stylo-hyoid, stylo- pharyngeus, and hvoglossus muscles. 5. The continuation of the carotid artery, before passing under the stylo-hyoid muscle, and posterior belly of the di- gastric muscle, gives off small branches to the pterygoid muscles; then it ascends, following a tortuous course in a groove of the submaxillary gland, and passes over the under jaw-bone, about an inch from the angle of the lower jaw, at the fore-part of the masseter muscle; and hence has been called the angular, facial, or external maxillary ar- tery. The trunk of the artery then passes obliquely up- wards and inwards, describing a tortuous course to the side of the mouth and nose, sending off, in that course, a great many branches, which are distributed upon the muscles of the face. It ascends to the internal canthus of the eye, where it anas- tomoses repeatedly with the branches of the ocular and fron- tal arteries. A large branch of this artery has been called orbicular, or the inferior labial, as it is distributed up- on the under lip. It passes over and supplies the depressor labii inferioris and orbicularis oris, and anastomoses with the corresponding artery, and also with the superior labial artery. The orbicular arteries of the lips are, in some cases, of very different sizes. I have seen the orbicular arteries of the lips derived from the transverse facial artery, which was of an un- usual size, and as large as the angular artery of the face. In such cases, the angular artery is not above half the common size, and it divides into a number of small branches, which are distributed upon the muscles of the lip, the branches of the transverse artery of the face supplying the side of the nose with blood, and the muscles connected with the upper jaw. The superior labial artery is next sent off. It is placed under the greater zygomatic muscle and sphincter oris. It follows a tortuous course, and sends upwards several small branches, which supply the cartilages at the extremity of the nose; and there are two or three small branches of this artery q 2