513 OF THE AXILLARY NERVES. to visit a man whose arm had been torn off by a wheel. The patient survived three days, during which he did not suffer from any of the symptoms of nervous agitation. lie did not lose above two ounces of blood. His death was owing to a very violent inflammation of the chest, in consequence of injury done to it. The axillary nerves, upon dissection, were found consider- ably inflamed and thickened, and the different nerves ad- hered to each other, and the torn extremities were rounded. Mr Cheselden has made particular mention of the case of a man whose arm was torn oft'. He observes, “ The ves- sels being thus stretched, bled very little; the arteries and nerves were drawn out of the arm. The patient had no se- vere symptoms, and the wound was cured by superficial dres- sing only.” Dr Hexxex, in his valuable work on Military Surgery, has published a very interesting case, which illustrates very strongly the effect of ligatures upon the axillary plexus, after they had been divided. He has stated, “ The first attempt at clearing the ligatures, and making- gentle pressure on them, was attended with pain so excrucia- ting, as to leave no doubt that each included a nerve, or was in a certain degree connected with some large nervous fila- ments. This agonizing sensation was not felt except the li- gatures were pulled at, and then not in the stump itself, but referred to the finger, thumb, wrist, elbow-, or even to the ex- ternal skin of the lost arm, as one or other ligature might be handled. I have sometimes been led to think, that the Ge- neral uniformly felt the same sensations w'hen the same liga- ture was touched, as I generally made my attempts to extri- cate them in a regulated succession, and his complaints were often of the same succession of parts. More attentive obser- vation, however, convinced me that this was not the case ; for, if any one was pulled with more steadiness than another, he complained of all the parts suffering pain simultaneously. One small ligature, if pulled in an oblique direction inwards towards the axilla, always gave him imaginary pain about the elbow, or in the skin ; but, if the same was pulled directly VOL II. K k