PROMINENCES or TIIE brain, kc. 373 Different opinions have been entertained as to the seat of the centre of sensation. It is not situated in the upper part of the hemispheres, as considerable portions of these have been lost, without occasioning a diminution of the sensitive faculty; hence the seat of sensation has been supposed to be placed in the deeper parts of the brain, with which all the nerves com- municate. The pineal gland has been said by Descartes to be the seat of the soul. Scemmering has supposed the fluid in the ventricles to be the most important part of the organ, with the parietes of which the greater number of the nerves seem to be connected. But I doubt whether there is a fluid within the ventricles: my ob- servations upon the very recent brain lead me indeed to a dif- ferent conclusion. I have observed, on examining the brain of executed criminals, while yet warm, and only two or three hours after death, that the inner surface of the ventricles was mere- ly bedewed by an aqueous fluid ; in a few only was there as much as a tea-spoonful of fluid; and it may be added, that re- peated dissection has convinced me, that an aqueous fluid may be collected within the ventricles of the brain, without giving rise to any symptom, which, before death, could excite a sus- picion of its existence. Of the Prominences in the Under Surface rf the Brain and Cerebellum. Each hemisphere has by anatomists been divided into three lobes: these are conspicuous, upon examining the base of the brain. The lobes of the hemispheres are unequal as to size; the anterior, which is the largest, consisting of1 about one-half of the whole hemisphere. The under surfaces of the anterior lobes are somewhat ex- cavated, bearing the impressions of the orbitar processes of the frontal bone; and on each side of the longitudinal line, which separates the hemispheres, there is a projecting convo- lution. The anterior and middle lobes of the brain are separated by a deep fossa, named Fossa Sybil