ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 28 ly a white spot about the size of a shilling, and a longitudinal fissure, passing nearly in the axis of the breast-bone, in which the right coronary artery, and a few very small branches of the eighth pair of nerves, are lodged ; and, in the inferior flat sur- face, there is also a groove, in which the left coronary artery and a large vein are imbedded. The right side of the heart is considerably thinner than the left; the former has hence been called by Halleh the Margo acutus, and the latter Margo obtusus. The heart is covered by a fine and transparent portion of the pleura, which is reflected from the pericardium, the sur- face of which has a shining appearance, owing to the serous fluid with which it is constantly besmeared. Under this membrane there is a greater or less quantity of fat. Even in the leanest persons there is a-good deal of fat towards the point of the heart, and some also at the basis of the heart, and in the course of the coronary arteries. In many instances, and even in old persons, a thin layer of fat covers the whole of the external surfaces of the ventricles. In very corpulent persons, I have seen so much fat collect- ed upon the surface of the heart, that it seemed to disturb the functions of that organ ; and I have also observed, that those persons had, before death, constant palpitation at the heart, even where no organic derangement existed in any part of this organ. On the other hand, there is no fat upon any part of the heart of the foetus. Upon the above thin serous membrane and fat, which cover the heart, being removed, the muscular fibres of that organ are brought into view : these are by no means so large as in those muscles which are under the power of the will. The muscular fibres of the heart are small, numerous, in- timately interwoven with each other, and there is no cellular substance between them: it is therefore difficult to trace their course ; besides, several fibres take their rise from, and termi- nate in, the parietes of the particular cavities of the heart. The greater number of the external stratum of muscular