ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 218 been described as being disposed in a foliated direction, like the leaves of the Palm tree; and, in the body of the womb, there are a few smaller ruga?, disposed in a longitudinal di- rection, in respect to the body of the womb. Between the ruga?, there are several lacunae, which secrete a mucous fluid. These rugae are more evident in the uterus of a child of two or three years old, as they are proportionally larger. Walter of Berlin has described the nerves of the uterus as arising from the fourth hypogastric plexus, and also from the third sacral nerves. Dr W. Hunter has described the nerves of the uterus as arising from the abdominal part of the sympathetic nerve, and from the hypogastric plexus. According to Teidemann *, “ Nervi, qui utero ovariis et tubis prospiciunt, e nervo sympathetico utriusque lateris origi- nem ducunt, e.t sex plexus constituunt *f\” Different opinions have been entertained as to the sensibi- lity of the womb. It has been stated, that the contact of the glans penis with the os tinea?, is the source of the pleasure women receive4irc coitu; but it has not been ascertained that the glans actual- ly comes into contact with the os tinea?. The uterus, when reduced to a morbid state, certainly ac- quires a larger share of sensibility. • Tab. Nervorum Uteri, p. 9., Heidelberg, 1822. -f Magnitudo ac copia nervorum uterum adeuntium diversis vitae temporibus ■differt. Nervi in puellis tenuissimi sunt; in virginibus et feminis majorcs et erassiores observantur; denique in vetulis minimi et tenerrimi conspiciuntur. Massa, crassitude, et copia nervorum uteri, dum feetum fovet, augetur, uti Gu- 3,iblmus Hunterus opinatus est; nam in tribus cadaveribus feminarum paulo post partum defunctarum, qua? secui, nervos uterinos longe majores vidi, quam in feminis non gravidis. Cum nervi uteri, durante graviditate, majores fiant, nemo inficias ire potest, vim sentiendi hoc tempore auctam esse. Sensibilitati uteri tribuendum est, quod feetus in utero motus sensu percipitur. Manum obstetricis infantem vertentis sentit. Dolores partum comitantes et sequentes, nasci videntur ex contractione fibrarum carnearum uteri, qua nervi hujus orgapi distrahuntur et comprimun- tur.—Pages 10, and 11.