ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 90 to it, that is, the cells communicate with each other. Hence, there seems little occasion that each cell should receive a branch of the trachea; and, what is a more direct argument to this purpose, I find a considerable cluster of cells adhering to one small branch of the bronchi, and this small branch en- tirely spent on the innermost or deepest of these cells, and the outermost cells only communicating with it through the innermost. When we come to consider the communication of the lobules with each other, we shall find a further argu- ment to the same effect. On opening the cells of the lungs near their surface, and injecting quicksilver, we see clusters of cells forming the lobules, and a great number of these joined form the five great lobes of the lungs, the surface of which is covered by the continuation of the pleura, and of the loose cellular substance, which, in the contained parts of the thorax, is on the outer side of the pleura; but w hich comes now to be interposed between the continuation of the pleura over the lungs, where it forms their outer membrane, and the substance of the lungs. The outer membrane of the lungs is thinner and more tender than the pleura in a child at birth, and the farther we advance in life, it becomes still thinner. Nay, it will be found thinner the farther we trace it from the root of the lungs. The accompanying cellular substance is not so loose on the lungs as on the containing parts, and its threads become still shorter by age ; hence, in an adult, the outer membrane of the lungs is more difficultly separable from the lungs by dissection. This cellular substance leaves the pleura or outer membrane, to insinuate itself deep into the interstices of all the lobules. The proper cells of the lungs have been by some authors supposed to communicate with the cellular membrane which fills up the interstices of the lobules, whilst others deny that the lobules have any natural communication. Both opinions are erroneous. In the first place, it must appear very improbable that nature should in us admit the air into two kinds of cells. In the next place, if the air got from the proper cells of the lungs into the interlobular cel- lular substance, what should hinder it to pass from that into