ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 562 gone. Or, observe what happens in slight inflammations, a» in the eye; the clear vessels of the cornea are seldom dilated, so as to let in red blood; for, where red vessels are seen on the cornea, there is a new growth from the white part of the eye gradually extending over the cornea, but the original ves- sels do not admit of red blood. When the eye has been inflamed, there is an effusion of the red blood into the interstices of the vessels of that organ; or it may be seen by the aid of a microscope, when an inflam- mation has been artificially excited in the web of the foot of a frog. Blood, it may be observed, has been detected within the lymphatic vessels. Bichat has made particular mention of two cases, in which the blood effused into the thorax had proved fatal, in both of which the lymphatic vessels were gorged with blood. The experiments of Wepfee lead to a similar conclusion. He gave to various animals a solution of the muriate of mercury; a violent inflammation was speedily excited, toge- ther with the effusion of a great quantity of blood into the abdomen, which was absorbed by the lymphatic vessels. My father made experiments of a nature somewhat similar, and invariably found blood in the thoracic duct; and also when he excited violent inflammation by wounds. With regard to the experiments of Nuck and Cowpee, it may be observed, that, though mercury injected into the spermatic artery passed into the lymphatic vessels of the sper- matic cord, but not into the spermatic vein, that is no certain proof of a continuity of vessels, otherwise the same would have happened during life; and as to Nuck’s experiments, he having filled “ vesiculas quasdam,” shews that his injection had been extravasated into the cellular substance, from which it had been taken up by the lymphatic vessels. It is well known to anatomists, that an organ may assume a red colour from a successful injection, without any of the injected fluid passing into the lymphatics of the part; but, if that organ be tender, and in a semi-putrid state, the