ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 320 substance of the brain than others, but still we have not yet been able to detect what is the exact source of a nerve; all the length, I apprehend, we can safely go, is to affirm, that the greater number of the nerves seem to be connected with the medulla oblongata of the brain. There is every reason to suppose, from the inspection of the diseased brain, and the symptoms which precede death from that cause, that there is a crossing of the fibres of the nerves near to their origin. Thus, injuries inflicted upon one side of the head, generally affect the opposite side of the body, though it must be ac- knowledged, that there are many exceptions to this general remark, with respect to the brain, cerebellum, and spinal cord. The crossing of the fibres of the optic nerves can be de- monstrated in the human body, and in fishes. My father has described very particularly in his book on the Nervous Sytem, the intermixture of the medullary cords of the optic nerves; and what has been above stated, as to the shrinking of the left tractus opticus when the right eye was lost, seemed to him to afford farther evidence of the fact. The decussation of the fibres of the cords that compose the spinal marrow, may be shewn in the grooves, by careful- ly separating those cords. The nerves have been by most authors said to take their origin from the brain ; but there is as great reason to adopt the contrary opinion, and to say that the brain takes its origin from the nerves. That the nerves do not take their origin from the brain seems to me obvious, as the whole of the white matter of the brain, cerebellum and spinal cord, is not expended in form- bulk than all the nerves conjoined. As the brain is proportionally smaller in quadrupeds and fishes than in man, the nerves in the former are larger, or are proportioned to the extent and bulk of parts over which they are distributed. Besides, the feeling is as acute, and the muscular energy as great, as in animals provided with a larger brain.