242 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. parts included in the ligature. I now cleaned the wound from blood with a sponge, that I might see if any important vessel was yet bleeding ; and as this was not the case, there being only an oozing from the small vessels of the wounded surface, I placed the ligatures over the lips of the wound, and fastened them there by means of plaster. I sprinkled the whole wounded surface with powdered gum arabic, and laid on this agaric wet with The den’s vulnerary water, and, filling the remaining cavity of the wound with charpee, I brought the lips of the wound as much as possible together by adhesive plaster; over the plaster I laid dossils of lint and compresses wet with vinegar, which were renewed every six or eight minutes; and the whole secured by a bandage.” The next considerable branch is the lingual. This artery, at its root, is in contact with the lingual nerve ; it reaches the junction of the body with the lateral portion of the os hyoides ; it is covered only by the platysma-myoides ; it passes over the corner of the os hyoides, and then under the hyoglossus and genio-glossus muscles to the tongue. At the anterior margin i of the hyoglossus muscle, this artery divides into several small branches, viz. a branch to the constrictor medius of the pharynx ; a branch to the hyoglossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles, and a branch, called dorsalis lingua, passes out- wards and upwards, near to the insertion of the stylo-glossus muscle. This artery frequently anastomoses with the cor- responding artery of the opposite side, which passes under | the middle of the tongue to its point: a branch of this artery is sent between the sublingual glands to the genio-hyoid and mylo-hyoid muscles. 3. The pharyngeal artery arises a little above the lingual, from the back part of the trunk of the carotid ; and, dividing into small branches, supplies the pharynx and fauces with blood. It enters the skull at the foramen jugulare, and gives branches to the dura mater, the external membrane of the brain. 4. The next branch, which is smaller than the preceding, I is called the ascending palatine. It is covered by the : styloid muscle, and is distributed upon the side of the pha- i