524 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. as the lower cervical ganglion; the trunk then divides, one part passes along the arteria innominata to the aorta, and the other joins a plexus below the middle ganglion. The middle or greatest cardiac nerve is connected with the middle cervical ganglion; it passes in front of the carotid ar- tery, crosses the root of the subclavian, then passes along the arteria innominata, where the cardiac nerves of the left side are added: thus, the plexus cardiacus magnus of Haller is formed, it is placed between the aorta and the windpipe. Many of the branches of this plexus pass around the aorta and pulmonary artery, and are fixed-down to these vessels by the internal lamina of the pericardium ; and branches from this plexus pass along the coronary arteries to the apex of the heart,—which is very distinctly seen in the heart of a lean horse or ox. From this plexus a branch is sent to the left coronary plexus, branches, which creep along the right branch of the pulmonary artery to the heart, and a branch to the anterior coronary plexus. The lesser cardiac nerve takes its rise from the lower cer- vical ganglion, by a number of small nerves, which form a plexus; passes along the arteria innominata and aorta, and ends in a plexus formed by the cardiac nerves on the left side of the aorta ascendens. Of the Cardiac Nerves of the Left Side. These ai’e derived from the eighth pair and great sympa- thetic nerve. A nerve is generally sent off from the eighth pair, about three inches above the collar-bone: it passes in the back part of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and unites with a branch of the great sympathetic nerve, which had received branches from the third cervical nerve. The left cardiac nerves are superficial or deep-seated. The superficial passes behind the arch of the aorta, to the great cardiac plexus. The deeper-seated cardiac nerve passes across the fore part of the arch of the aorta; joins the cardiac nerves of the eighth pair, and forms the cardiac plexus; and from this plexus, a nervous web extends on the left side of the ascending aorta,