or THE CARTILAGES OE THE LARYNX, 75 siirv, when the passage tor the air through the larynx is to a certain degree impeded. Of the Arytenoid or Py ramidal Cartilages. The arytenoid cartilages constitute the most important part of the larynx, being connected with the chords, upon the state of which the voice more immediately depends ; and the move- ments of these cartilages tend also to the enlargement, or di- minution, of the aperture of the glottis. These cartilages are of a triangular figure, with their cartilaginous appendices, which are fixed to their apices, di- rected towards each other. The posterior surface of the ary- tenoid cartilages is filled up by the arytenoid muscles. The anterior surface is convex, with slight excavatures, which are occupied by the arytenoid glands. The arytenoid cartilages are connected to each other by the membrane of the larynx, and by muscular fibres; and also to the epiglottis, by a mem- branous fold on each side, which form the sides of the upper aperture of the larynx. On the above membrane a very few muscular fibres may be observed in very robust men, which have been described as muscles by some anatomises. Of the Epiglottis. The opening into the larynx is covered’by the ligamento- cartilaginous substance, which in figure resembles the tongue, and which has been called the epiglottis : when raised it is placed perpendicularly ; and when the tongue is depressed, it is pressed down, and covers the passage into the larynx, as in the act of swallowing. The epiglottis is fixed by its under end, by means of a short ligament, to the middle notch of the thyroid cartilage; and it is connected laterally to the whole length of the arytenoid cartilages. There are a number of fissures or lacunae, the orifices of the mucous follicles on the surface of that mem- brane which lines the epiglottis. The epiglottis of different individuals varies as to its size and form. The surface of it which is next to the tongue, is somewhat convex, and the opposite surface next to the larnyx