2iG Jl l.JE M ISN'T £ OF ANATOMY. di/Terent sources. When such tumours are small, they may be easily removed ; but when large, it is often very difficult to take up by ligature all the vessels that supply them with blood. In describing the arteries of the face, the anastomoses be- tween these have been mentioned ; and hence when a tumour, formed by a plexus of vessels, occurs upon the face, it is very difficult to take up all the vessels which lead to it, and if that be not done, the disease is not cured. I have seen the angu- lar artery taken up near to the angle of the jaw ; but the dis- ease was not cured, for ail the arteries that fed it were not taken up. Another method is to dissect out such tumours. I had occasion, with Mr A. Burns, to visit a man, on whose face a large purple-coloured tumour grew: it gradually ex- tended upwards towards the eye. The tumour was dissected out by Mr A. Burns, and the patient obtained a complete cure. Mr Liston has described the case of a woman, “ who had a constant beating pain in the left cheek, and upper jaw, along the alveolar process, stretching to the throat, and indeed co- vering the whole head.1” The pain was without respite, and so violent that she constantly supported her head, unable to use any exertion. “ In my examination,” Mr Liston says, “ I put my thumb on the carotid ; she immediately exclaimed she was quite re- lieved. I passed a small ligature under the carotid. For some time the pains were relieved, but since then, I understand, they have returned with considerable violence In removing the parotid gland -J-, or tumours growing upon the cheek, or in the extirpation of tumours growing from the un- der jaw, it is prudent, on the part of the surgeon, with the view of preventing haemorrhagy, to begin his operation by throwing a ligature upon the common carotid artery of the same side. Af- ter having secured the carotid artery, even a portion of the under jaw has been cut out. * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January 1820. -j- Three cases have been published by Dr Weinhold of Italic, in which this gland has been removed with success—Vide Bbclard, Archia General, Janu- ary 1821.