431 OF THE TENSOR TARSI. bone: it arises from the dura mater, at the upper margin of the foramen opticum, and forms a broad tendinous expansion, ■which is fixed to the superior margin of the tarsus. By this muscle the upper eye-lid is raised. A small muscle has been lately discovered by Dr Horner of Philadelphia, which he has called Tensor Tarsi. I subjoin, in the author’s own words, his description of the tensor tarsi, from his very valuable book on Practical Anato- my, which he Avas so polite as to send me. “ At the internal canthus of the orbit is a small muscle, be- longing to the internal commissure of the eye-lids, which has not been observed before, or is omitted in the descriptions of the part. That it does not belong to either of the above, or to the orbicularis palpebrarum, a reference to very minute ac- counts of them, given by the most eminent anatomists, will prove. “ This muscle is about three lines broad and six lines long; it arises from the posterior flat surface of the os unguis, near its junction with the os ethmoides, and passes forwards and outwards, lying on the posterior face of the lacrymal ducts. As it approaches the commissure of the lids, it splits into two parts nearly equal, each of which is appropriated to a duct, and inserted along its course, almost to the punctum lacry- male. u To get a distinct view of it, the eye-lids must be sepa- rated from the eye, and turned over the nose, leaving the ten- dinous attachment of the orbicularis and ciliaris muscles. The valvula semilunaris is brought into sight by this process, which must be dissected away, and also the fat and cellular membrane underneath it. The muscle is now seen, and by passing bristles through the lacrymal ducts, its connection with them is rendered evident., at the same time that we get a good idea of its size, origin, and insertion. While making this inspection, by turning the muscle somewhat aside, we shall be rendered sensible of another fact of some importance, that the attachment of the inner commissure of the eye-lids to the internal canthus of the orbit is imperfectly described, even by anatomists, of much minuteness, in their accounts. It is