ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 450 tion of the radiated muscle of the membrane of the drum, the ear is adapted to different sounds, and that the imperfect ac- tion of this muscle, occasioned by nervous disorders, occasions an imperfection in the musical ear. The membrane of the drum, in some individuals, is an im- perfect septum : there is an aperture in it; so that, if the smoke of tobacco be inhaled, and then forcibly exhaled, while the mouth and nose are kept shut, a part of it comes out at the ear; notwithstanding which, the individual is not deaf, but only somewhat dull of hearing. In the tortoise, toad, and frog, the membrane of the drum is on a level with the skin of the head. Of the Internal Ear. The internal ear consists of the cavity of the Tympanum, Vestihle, and Cochlea, and parts communicating with these. The cavity of the tympanum is placed behind the mem- brane of the drum. It is of an irregular form, about half an inch wide, and divided into two unequal compartments, by a projecting portion of bone, called the Promontory, which is the beginning of the scala tympani. There is a projection in the upper and fore part of the tympanum, which lodges a. part of the muscle called Tensor Tympani. The cavity of the tympanum communicates, at its upper and fore part, with the back of the nose, by means of the tube, commonly, though improperly, called Eustachian, as it was described by Aristotle. The eustachian tube is in form like a trumpet, with its broader extremity towards the back part of the nose: its orifice is placed immediately a- bove the arch of the palate: it is about an inch and three quarters long, and partly composed of bone and partly of cartilage. It communicates with the upper and fore part of the cavity of the tympanum, by its smaller extremity, which' is formed of bone, and which passes obliquely for- wards and inwards, towards the back-part of the nose, where it terminates by an aperture which is of sufficient size to admit a goose-quill. This tube is lined by a mucous mem- brane, which is of unequal thickness. It is so thick next to the back-part of the nose, as to add considerably to the size