598 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. mesenteric glands : a sufficient quantity of chyle does not pass into the blood. Diseases also arise from an over action of the absorbent vessels. Even the most solid parts of the body are in this manner removed. Thus the pressure of an aneurism of the aorta, gives rise to the absorption of a part of the breast-bone; or the same disease in the descending aorta, produces the same effect upon the spine ; or a tumour upon the head occa- sions an absorption of a part of the skull; or, on some occa- sions, so much of the earth of the bones is removed, that the bones become so soft and flexible, as to be incapable of sup- porting the weight of the body. Lastly, As the lymphatic system terminates on the right side of the heart, all the matter w hich is absorbed, whether from the surfaces or substances of the several organs of the body, is brought to the lungs before it can reach the other parts of the system ; and even the matter which is absorbed from the lungs is directly returned upon them by their own lymphatic vessels. Hence the lungs are, more than any other organs, exposed to disease. From what has been stated as to the structure, origin, course, anastomoses, and terminations of the lymphatic sys- tem, the fallowing inferences may be drawn. That the branches of the lymphatic vessels do not commu- nicate with the smaller branches of the arteries, or of the veins, and probably exist in all parts of the body. That they are greater in number than the arteries or veins. That the lymphatic vessels constitute the only system of absorbents; and the strongest proofs they are so, are, 1. Their analogy to the lacteal vessels : 2. The fluid they contain being similar to the fluids in the cavities from which they take their origin : 3. The inflammation and thickening of the coats of the lymphatic vessels, and of the glands connected with this sys- tem, consequent to the absorption of acrid poisons ; and, 4. The existence of the lymphatic system in the mamma- lia, birds, amphibia, fishes, and insects.