163 or THE PENIS. it may prevent the complete denudation of the glans penis, and it is liable to be torn during coition. On each side of the fraenum there is a small projection : these projections have been called Colliculi glandis. The surface of the glans, when the penis is undistended, is of a pale red colour, and somewhat corrugated; but that of the distended penis is red, rounded, and to the naked eye smooth. The inner membrane of the prepuce is reflected over the glans penis, and is united with the mucous membrane which lines the urethra. This covering is, to the touch, smooth and soft: it is com* posed of a very thin cuticle, and of a soft true skin, with a number of villi upon it, which are very conspicuous after the bloodvessels of the penis have been filled successfully with wax. These villi consist chiefly of bloodvessels, and on account of the extreme sensibility of the glans, it is probable (for it has not been demonstrated) that nerves enter into their com- position. In my Outlines of Anatomy, I have stated, that the glans penis is made up chiefly of a plexus of small convoluted veins, which communicate with the corpus spongiosum urethras. Since the publication of these Outlines, Moresci of Milan has published a commentary De Urethra corporis glandisque structura. He has described, with great minuteness, the course of the veins which compose the corpus spongiosum of the urethra, and which cover and form the glans penis. He has described the veins of the glans as being of dif- ferent sizes; but in the preparations preserved in the Museum of this University, the veins which enter into the structure of the parietes of the urethra, and those on the surface of the glans penis, are nearly of the same size; indeed more so than any other veins of the body : they follow a very convoluted course ; after having injected the large vein or veins on the dorsum of the penisj he found veins also passing from it on the inner side of the prepuce, which form arches, which be- come smaller as they approach its extremity. Some of the blanches run behind the glans penis, giving branches to the