ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 438 rally placed opposite to the middle part of the inferior Gpongy bone. -The nasal branch of the fifth pair of nerves, after supply- ing the anterior part of the nostrils, and the fore-part of the septum narium, passes to the inner corner of the eye, and is distributed upon the lacrymal sac. -The lacrymal sac and nasal duct are lined by a mucous membrane, which is largely supplied with blood. Like other mucous membranes, it is very liable to inflammation and thickening; and, when this latter takes place to a consider- able extent, the flow of tears is interrupted to a greater or less degree. An unnatural degree of acrimony of the tears, occasioned by their retention, causes the membrane of the duct to be- come inflamed and thickened, and the mucus secreted by the vessels of the irritated and inflamed mucous membrane is at the same time thicker than natural, which adds to the ob- struction. At length, in consequence of the continued in- flammation, an abscess takes place; the lacrymal sac bursts externally, constituting the disease called Fistula lacrymails. If this disease be neglected, the bones of the orbit and side of the nose are sometimes reduced to a carious state, and the disease proves fatal. As the other canals which are lined by a mucous membrane are occasionally spasmodically con- stricted, it seems to me probable, that the lacrymal canals may be also spasmodically constricted. On account of the small size of the lacrymal passages, and crooked course which they follow, it is very difficult to clean these, when they are ob- structed, by passing a probe through them. If the obstruction to the lacrymal passages be owing pure- ly to inspissated mucus within the lacrymal passages, it may be removed by the injection of warm water; but if there be an inflammation and thickening of the mucous membrane lin- ing these passages, astringent washes are necessary to remove it, together with the application of leeches near to the lacry- mal sac. When, on the other hand, spasm is the obstruct- ing cause, sedative applications are requisite. Lastly, It is proper to add, that a polypus situated in the