ANALYSIS OF U1UNE. 133 curate examination of the state of the urine, yet such an en- quiry seems to me to be foreign to the subject of this work, excepting in so far, as that morbid state of tbe urine may give rise to urinary concretions. I refer my reader to Dr Wilson Philip, who, in his valuable Treatise on Indi- gestion, has pointed out some of the causes by which the secretion of urine is deranged, and to Dr Pkout, who has shewn the relations of certain states of the urine, with certain symptoms of disease, in various parts of the animal econo- my, and also the chemical properties and changes which the urine has undergone, when it has arrived at the bladder; hence his observations are calculated to improve the method of treatment of such diseases. Gravel, as it has been commonly called, is often mixed with the urine: it may be considered as an index of a disposi- tion to stone, and it occurs either as an impalpable powder, or in regularly crystallized red particles of the uric acid, or in the form of brown crystals, which consist of lithate of am- monia, or lithate of soda, tinged by the colouring principle of the urine, and more or less of the purpurates of ammonia and soda, according to Dr Piiout. A deposit of this kind indi- cates gout, or active inflammatory fever. The pink sediment, in the urine, which consists chiefly of lithate of ammonia, in- dicates the absence of a large proportion of the colouring prin- ciple of the urine, and is an index of diseases of the liver, and of hectic fever. A white sediment, composed of phosphate of lime, or of the phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, occurs in cases of cos- tiveness and flatulence, and derangement of the functions of the alimentary canal. The urine, in these circumstances, is liable to decomposition, contains a white cloud, and becomes alkaline ; hence the evolution of ammonia. When there is a tendency to the formation of the oxalate of lime, there is no deposit in the urine, which is always clear. Concretions, of considerable size, are not unfrequently found in the uriniferous passages, in persons of all ages. They have been detected in the bladder of urine of the foetus,