175 OF THE URETHRA. in Egypt *. The urethra of the male was inflated. A wooden pipe, eight fingers long, the smaller end of a conical shape, was passed into the urethra; the operator blew into it with force, pressing at the same time on the perinaeum, to prevent the air from getting into the bladder ; and the mouth of the pipe was then stopped. An assistant passed two fingers into the anus, and forced the stone into the urethra. The pipe was then suddenly removed from the urethra, and thus stones as large as olives were extracted. The dilating the urethra, was also practised by Hildaxus, and Dr Molixetjx, so far back as the year 1692. Vide Phil. Trans, vol. xvii. Vide also a paper by Dr Yelloly in Me- dico-Chir. Trans, vol. vi. This practice, as appears from Professor Waltpier’s cata- logue of his Anatomical Museum, was common in Prussia, and was attended with success ; and of late it has been intro- duced into this country by Mr Thomas and Sir Astley Cooper. The latter gentleman extracted, from the bladder of a man, a stone which weighed 54 grains, by artificially dilating the urethra by a bougie *f*. Sir Astley Cooper has observed, <f When a great num- ber of calculi are found in the bladder, the circumstance is generally attended with an enlargement of the prostate gland, and it depends upon a sacculus being formed in the bladder directly behind the enlarged gland. In these cases the blad- der is rarely completely emptied of its contents, and the cal- culi crystallize from the urine retained in this sac. “ Such stones do not in general acquire the magnitude of those formed under the usual circumstances, and, from their num- ber and collision against each other, their surfaces arc general- ly smooth, and their shape is commonly rounded. “ When calculi are thus placed, they are so concealed in the bag in which they are contained, that, in sounding, the instrument is liable to pass over them without their being discovered; and it is therefore necessary to dip the sound to- * Vide his book de Alcdicina /Egypt. Venice, 1591. •f Med, Chir. Trans, of London, vol. xii, p. 337.