ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 238 the former has been called the internal, the latter, the exter- nal carotid. But the place of the division is by no means uniform. I have a preparation, in which it takes place near to the bottom of the neck. The common carotid artery sometimes divides opposite to the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra, into the external and in- ternal carotids. In some cases (as in a specimen 1 saw in the museum of Mr A. Burns of Glasgow,) the common carotid, instead of dividing into two great branches, divides into a number of small branches. Mr Burns shewed me another preparation, in which the carotid artery, opposite to the styloid process, divided into two large arteries, the internal carotid, and a trunk, which was common to the temporal and maxillary arteries ; and there were several branches sent off instead of the external caro- tid. These varieties as to the origin of the external and inter- nal carotids, should be borne in mind by the surgeon who is about to perform the operation of carotid aneurism. Mr A. Burns has pointed out very ably the relative situa- tion of these arteries to the under-jaw, when the head is car- ried in the usual manner, or when it has been thrown back- wards *, and also the difference as to the relative position of the carotid artery and angle of the under-jaw in the young and old subject: in the latter, when the teeth have fallen out, the distance between the angle of the jaw and the division of the common carotid artery is greater than whilst the teeth re- main. Aneurism of the carotid artery is not rare. The symptoms of the disease may be readily explained from the parts in the neighbourhood, which are compressed by the aneurism, viz. the difficult breathing from pressure on the windpipe ; diffi- cult swallowing, from pressure on the gullet; the headache, from pressure on the internal jugular vein impeding the re- turn of blood from the bead. Sir A. Cooper thus describes his mode of operating : “ I • Vide first volume of this work, art. Os Hyoides.