OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 599 That the process of absorption is continually going on, and bears a ratio to the activity of the secreting vessels. That the lymphatic vessels take up the solid * as well as the fluid parts of the body. That the absorbent system has a great share in carrying on several of the more important functions of the animal eco- nomy. That, from the peculiar functions of this system, it is the medium through which the contagion of disease enters into the blood ; and hence that an intimate acquaintance with the origin and course of this system cannot fail to pave the way to many improvements in the practice of medicine and sur- gery': it may suggest the means of preventing contagion from being communicated,—of exciting these vessels to their healthy action when they become torpid,—of arresting the course of poisons in their progress to the blood,—and also of applying an antidote in the manner which is most efficacious, for mitigating or destroying those poisons which have already contaminated the constitution -f*. • Vide Observations of my Father on the Absorption of Solids, in his Trea- tise on the Brain. Edin. 1797. Dr Winterbottom, who had been the pupil of Mr J. Hunter, in his thesis De Vasis Absorbentibus, Edin. 1781, has ob- served : “ Absorbentia, fluida sorbere, jamdiu notum; gloria autem monstrandi ea solida quoque haurire, penes Monro Anatomicum peritissimum est. In hanc sententiam, uti jamdudum in Prselectionibus preedicavit, multis argumentis ad- ductus ibat: Sed praesertim, quia thymum glandulum evanescere ; ossa seni3 multo leviora quam juvenis esse ; terrain rubram, quam rubia tinctorum in ossa infert, post aliquod tempus auferri; etiamque variis in morbis ossa mollia, dis- torts, fere pellucida, et levia, devenire; imo, aliquot in exemplis, insolitam quantitatem sedimenti albidi, tcrrae ossium simillime, in urina fuisse inventam,— animadvertit.” -f- I regret very much, that want of room precludes me from describing the lymphatic system in birds, the amphibia, and fishes. I beg to refer the reader to my Father’s book on Fishes, who discovered, and has fully described, the lymphatic system in the above classes of animals, and in the echinus raarinus,