317 OF THE NERVES. The larger nerves of infants bear a larger proportion to the other parts of the body than after puberty, but they are not on that account better adapted for the exhibition of the nerves; for the smaller branches of the nerves of the adult are larger, and less apt to give way during dissection, than those of in- fants. The nerves also, like the bloodvessels, enlarge when the womb is expanded during pregnancy, as has been noticed by Sir E. Home and Tiedemanx. In a very large aneurism of the abdominal aorta, which I had occasion to examine with considerable care, the splanch- nic nerves, which ran over ihe tumour, were very much en- larged. According to Tiedemann, the degree of sensibility of nerves bears a ratio to their bulk ; an opinion which re- ceives confirmation from two cases of prodigious aneurisms of the abdominal aorta, which before death, had caused the most excruciating agony. Irritation applied to nerves occasions their partial enlarge- ment. Thus, a short time after amputation, there is a tumour connected with the extremities of the nerves that have been divided, but after some time this swelling of the nerves goes off to a considerable degree. In some instances of neuralgia, the nerves of the affected part are enlarged, which is owing to the effusion of a serous fluid into the sheath of the affected nerve. The relief afforded by the application of cold water, of leeches and blisters, seems to afford evidence, that, in the neuralgia, there is an inflammation of the nerves of the af- fected part. When a nerve has been inflamed, the fasciculi of it are en- larged, and also the bloodvessels proper to it. There was sent to me, four years ago, the amputated arm of a soldier, who had received a wound in the fore-arm, which was followed by such excruciating pain, of several years du- ration, that he insisted upon his arm being removed. My assistant Mr Mackenzie filled the bloodvessels of the arm, very successfully, with a fine injection, by which the vessels of the radial and ulnar nerves were so completely filled, that these nerves assumed a uniform red appearance.