ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 302 becomes {edematous, the free return of the blood being inter- rupted by the aneurism; and, from the continued pressure of the tumour on the thigh-bone, this bone is often thrown into a carious state, when the disease has been of considerable duration. Mr J. Hunter, in the year i785, proposed his improved method of treating this disorder, to which he was led by the expectation of removing the disease, by preventing the blood from reaching the tumour, by a ligature thrown around the femoral artery, the coats of which are probably sound, and thei'efore disposed to unite in a kindly manner; whereas those of the popliteal artery being diseased, do not unite, and a bleeding ensues when the ligature has been removed. Mr Hunter was also well aware, that there was little risk of gangrene ensuing, though a ligature was thrown upon the main trunks of the artery, as the circulation would still be maintained through the medium of the lateral anastomosing arteries. Of late, an improved method of applying the ligature has been introduced, in consequence of the observations of Dr Jones, who has proved, that a secondary haemorrhage is oc- casioned by the application of four ligatures. The vasa vaso- rum, proper to the portion of the artery included within the ligature, are cut off; the included portion being deprived of blood, therefore falls into a state of gangrene, and the patient is exhausted by repeated bleeding: one ligature only is now’em- ployed, or at most two, and the artery is divided between them, according to the method of Mr Abeenethy. In consequence of the application of the ligature, the tu- mour in the ham ceases to be painful, and to pulsate; it shrinks; its contents are absorbed ; and in the space of a few weeks, in the site of the tumour, a tense cord only can be felt. The operation may be performed as follows. The patient is to be laid in the horizontal posture; an incision four inches long is to be made, about half way between the anterior spi- nous process of the os ilium and the upper edge of the knee- pan, where the sartorius muscle crosses the thigh, and on the inner side of that muscle.