OF TIIE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 553 readily discovered than in others, because the fat in which they are imbedded has been absorbed,—because they are often filled by a watery fluid, and appear to be larger than natural, and, besides their coats, are by that disease frequently render- ed opaque. The lymphatic vessels of the superior or inferior extremi- ties may often be seen by putting a ligature very tightly around the limb, and making pressure and friction on the skin beyond, so as to force the fluid in the cellular substance into the lymphatic vessels ; they may be frequently observed in the hand, or at the wrist, when the light falls strongly on the part. The lymphatic vessels are often filled, in consequence of the extravasation of a fluid thrown into the arteries with too great foi'ce. The fluid escapes into the cellular substance, and the lymphatic vessels connected with that part are filled. Many of the lymphatics have been discovered in conse- quence of disease. It is much more easy to discover and to preserve the lym- phatic vessels of the intestines and mesentery, than those of other parts of the body. By feeding an animal with milk, and killing it in the course of two or three hours afterwards, and immediately opening the abdomen, the lymphatics may be observed between the layers of peritonaeum which foun the mesentery, provided a ligature be thrown around the root of the mesentery : thus the progress of the chyle is stop- ped, the lymphatics of the intestines are distended, and are distinctly seen ; and by plunging the intestines and mesen- tery, when in this state, into good spirit of wine, the chyle will become white and opaque, and will be coagulated within its vessels. The other way of discovering the lymphatic vessels, is to keep a part until it becomes putrid: the air generated by pu- trefaction distends the lymphatic vessels, which may after- wards be readily filled with quicksilver. The course of the principal lymphatic vessels corresponds with that of the bloodvessels : the superficial set accompany the superficial veins, and the deeper set accompany the arteries.