ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 534, of the uterus, like those of the heart, are soft, of a reddish colour, and cannot be traced through the substance of that organ. The pudic nerves, which are branches of the sciatic nerves, follow the same course as the pudic arteries. In making a preparation of the nerves of the dorsum penis some years ago, I observed the membranous appearance con- nected with the smaller branches of the nerves. My late pupil Mr Swan has described a similar appearance connected with other nerves, and he has stated, that, upon examining this delicate membrane with a magnifying glass, he found that it consists of a very minute plexus of nerves. The pudic nerves, which are branches of the sciatic nerv es, follow the same course as the pudic arteries. The pudic nerves consist of two fasciculi, the uppermost of which is derived from the two inferior and two superior sa- cral nerves. The fasciculi pass through the under part of the notch of the os ilium, then between the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and accompany the branches of the pudic artery. The pudic nerve may be wounded in performing the late- ral operation of lithotomy ; and in the extraction of the stone, all the nerves of the perinasum may be dreadfully bruised, if that extraction shall not be performed in the axis of the pel- vis, and when the incisions are not sufficiently large ; and this probably gives rise to nausea, vomiting, and other bad symp- toms. The principal nerve of the penis is called the dorsal nerve; it is placed between the corresponding artery and vein, and run- ning along the dorsum penis, terminates on the glans, after ha- ving given branches to the corpora cavernosa penis. Haller, and also Bichat, have stated, that the sympa- thetic nerve is sometimes interrupted ; but this is denied by Weber and also by Lobstein. The almost universal connection and communication which this nerve has with the other nerves of the body, may lead us to understand the following, and a great many more phe- nomena.