49 OF TIIK VEINS. each other. These valves are remarkably tough ; and are more numerous in some than in other veins. Single valves are sometimes found in the veins of the hands and feet. A pair of valves has been described in the external jugular veins, and valves have been observed in the branches of the internal jugular veins. The veins are somewhat expanded into a sinus opposite to the valves, which gives the vein a knotted appearance. The valves prevent the regurgitation of the blood ; they clap close to the sides of the veins during its flow towards the heart, but are raised when the blood is refluent. On account of the position of the veins, and greater size and thinness of their coats, the pressure of the neighbouring organs and gravitation, must have a greater influence upon the blood through them than within the arteries. The return of the blood to the heart through the veins is promoted by the muscular contraction of their coats, by the contraction of the neighbouring muscles, by the pulsation of neighbouring arteries, and by the valves, which prevent a re- trograde motion. The velocity of the blood in the smaller veins is probably equal to that of the blood within the smaller ramifications of the arteries, and the blood continues to flow more and more rapidly within the larger veins, near to the heart, the area of the vena? cavse being much less than that of the branches of the veins which discharge their contents into it. The veins yield more readily, and are much more dilatable, in the transverse direction than the arteries, but they can be extended but little in the longitudinal direction. There are vasa vasorum proper to the coats of the veins, as well as to those of the arteries. In short, the veins may be distinguished from the arteries by the greater thinness of their coats,—by their greater num- ber and size,—by their want of pulsation,—and by the blood within them flowing in an uniform and uninterrupted stream, —by the dark purple colour of the included blood,—and by the number of the valves. VOL. II. i n