423 OF THE NERVES OF THE EYE-BALL. fourth, and first portion of the fifth pair of nerves, and also by the sixth pair ; and the eye-lids receive branches from the por- tio dura of the seventh pair. The second or optic nerves have been above described. The third pair is said to arise from the under and back part of the crura cerebri. The small threads connected with the crus cerebri, are inclosed in the pia mater, and when uni- ted form a nerve of a rounded form. These nerves pass obliquely outwards and forwards, and run along the upper part of the cavernous sinuses; pass through the foramina lacera, and give branches to all the mus- cles of the eyes, excepting the superior oblique and adductor muscles, and send a branch to the ophthalmic ganglion. The upper and smaller branches pass over the optic, and are spent upon the rectus superior muscle, and the attollens palpebram superiorem ; and the inferior or larger passes under the optic nerve, and divides it into branches which supply the adductor muscle,^and the rectus inferior, and inferior oblique muscle. The fourth pair of nerves take their rise, by two or three 6mall filaments, which are very soft, from the crura of the cere- bellum, and medullary expansion, which lies over the passage into the fourth ventricle. Each of the nerves of this pair is about the size of a com- mon sewing thread: it winds round the crus cerebri, between the brain and cerebellum, and perforates the dura mater at the edge of the tentorium cerebello-superextensum; pas- ses along the sinus cavernosus, crosses over the third pair of nerves, and then passes through the foramen lacerum ; and, without giving off any branches, ultimately dips into the sub- stance of the superior oblique muscle. The Fifth, Trifacial or Par Trigem 'mum. The fifth is the largest pair of nerves which is connected with the brain . it arises by an anterior portion from the sides of the crura cerebelli, where they are about to form the pons Varolii, and by a posterior part from the side of the pons, where the crura cerebelli join it.