OF THE SPINAL MARltOW. 507 nous sinuses flows into the smaller branches of the vena azy- gos. The spinal cord exists in all classes of animals before the brain. It consists at first of two lateral cords, which are dis- united behind. The interior of the cord is hollow, and has sometimes been filled by a fluid. This canal is obliterated in the human embryo at the fifth month, by the successive deposition of a grey substance, which is probably secreted by the pia mater lining the canal. According to Seures, the development of the tuberosities of the spinal cord correspond with the limbs. Those animals that have only one pair of limbs, have only one tuberosity, as the Cetacea ; and the position of the tuberosity varies accord- ing to the position of the limbs, in respect to the trunk of the body. The genus B'tpes has its tuberosity on the posterior part of the spinal cord ; and the genus Bimares on the ante- rior part. Lastly, Serres has also stated, that the spinal cord is not protuberant at the origin of each particular nerve, as Gall and SpuEzheim have affirmed, to which first opinion I sub- scribe. Dr Wilson Philip, in his celebrated book on the Vital Functions, has drawn the following conclusions. 44 1. That the cause of all the motions of inspiration has its seat near that part of the medulla oblongata which gives rise to the nerves of the eighth pair. 44 2. That the cause which animates each part of the body, resides in the part of the spinal marrow from which the nerves of that part are derived. 44 3. That, in like manner, it is from the spinal marrow that the heart derives its life and its powers ; but, from the whole spinal marrow, and not merely from any particular part of it. 44 4. That the great sympathetic nerve takes its rise from the spinal marrow, and that the particular character of that nerve is to bring every part to which it is distributed, under the immediate influence of the whole nervous power. 44 5. That the brain and spinal marrow act, each of them, di*