497 OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. periment seemed in gooA health, but was extremely thirsty, and drank a great deal of water : he passed little by stool, and only after a considerable effort. Six weeks after the first experiment had been performed, the eighth pair of the left side was divided by my assistant opposite to the thyroid car- tilage, who assured me, that he not only divided but also cut out an inch and a half of the nerve. The result was some- what similar to that of the preceding experiment. The dog rejected every kind of food ; on the third day, he seemed somewhat better, but still trembled very much. The eye of the left side was affected as that of the right side ; he was extremely thirsty, and drank a great deal of water, but passed very little by stool; and in this state he continued for twelve days after the nerve had been divided and cut out. He be- came considerably emaciated, but could run about. In the first experiment, I apprehended that the power of swallowing and of retaining food in his stomach, indicated the moment when a reunion of the divided par vagum had taken place. “ April 12. The dog is now much more lively, and can re- tain the food he takes better, provided he is not allowed to drink water, which he always does in great quantity. He can now make as it were an approach to a bark. Still has a de- gree of tremor upon him. “ April 17. Dog is now much stronger ; his voice, when he attempts to bark, is louder, but he cannot emit a sound like other dogs in barking. He now retains solid food, but if he drinks even a cupful of water, he instantly vomits. Has now passage in his bowels every day.” The dog continued to linger on, becoming gradually more and more emaciated, until the 20th May, when he died. From the result of this experiment, it is obvious, that the sound of the voice depends chiefly upon the recurrent nerve ; for the eighth pair was divided below the superior-laryngeal nerve ; and this fact was rendered so obvious by this experi- ment, that I did not think it necessary to repeat it. VOL. IT. J ;