OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 557 Of the Glands connected with the Lymphatic System. It is of much moment in practice to be acquainted with the situation of the lymphatic conglobate glands; for in this va- riable and changeable climate, they are very often swollen, from cold ; and they are also liable to swelling from the ab- sorption of various poisons, as that of lues venerea, cancer, fungus haematodes, &c. The greater number of the lymphatic vessels are connected with these glands : some of these vessels are distributed upon the surface of these glands, but the greater number sink deeply into the substance of them ; there are, however, some lymphatic vessels which are not, connected with any of the glands : hence, though the gland be obstructed or diseased, the flow of the lymph to the heart is not interrupted. The lymphatic glands are of an oval or rounded form, and are somewhat flattened. They vary as to size in different in- dividuals: some in the healthy body are as small as a millet- seed ; others equal a walnut in size, and, from disease, some- times attain the size of an orange; and, where several of these glands are swollen, as often happens from disease, and are collected into one mass, they often constitute a tumour of a much larger size. The lymphatic glands are generally much larger in the meridian than in the decline of life. The colour of these glands varies, generally owing to the number of bloodvessels distributed on them. They are of a light red colour; but those in the vicinity of the liver have a yellow colour, from containing a proportion of bile; those in the mesentery are whitish, from being filled by a chylous fluid ; and, at the division of the trachea into its branches, they are of a black colour. These glands are solitary, or dis- posed in groups : they lie under the skin, and are imbedded in the cellular substance which surrounds the superficial veins or the deeper seated arteries. These glands are numerous in the side of the neck, axilla, and groin, in the pelvis, mesentery, and around the stomach