ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 388 The sense of smell resides in the terminations of the nerves, which are distributed upon the mucous membrane that lines the nasal fossae. The nose is of a more simple or complica- ted structure in different classes of animals. In some, it con- sists of a great number of plates of bones, which are very much convoluted, so that the extent of surface of the inter- nal nerves is very great, and the acuteness of this sense bears a ratio to the extent of surface, upon which the nerves are distributed. It may also be added, that in the hare, rab- bit, badger, and dog, the inferior turbinated bones are of a more complicated structure than the superior ; and therefore, though we cannot trace the very minute branches of the olfac- tory nerves upon the mucous membrane that lines these in- ferior turbinated bones, it is probable that that is the most sensible part of the nose. The os frontis, ossa nasi, and ossa maxillaria, form the upper and fore-part of the nose. The os ethmoides, and the ossa unguis, form the upper and lateral parts of the nose. The ossa spongiosa inferiora, os sphenoides, ossa palati, ossa maxillaria superiora and vomer, constitute the under, inner, and back part of the nose. The soft parts of the nose are, its cartilages, ligaments, membranes, muscles, and skin. There are five cartilages of the nose; the largest of which, and the basis on which the la- teral cartilages rest, is placed in the middle. The middle cartilage also forms a considerable share of the septum narium ; and is fixed to the vomer, to the spinous process of the ossa maxillaria superiora, and to the anterior part of the nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone. The anterior lateral cartilage is bent forwards, and forms what is commonly called the tip of the nose, and the posterior forms the wings of the nose. These cartilages are covered by cellular membrane, fat, a number of sebaceous glands, skin, and by the following muscles, by which they are moved, viz. the compressor narium, and part of the occipito-frontalis, which is fixed into the nose; and the levator and depressor labii superioris ala:- que nasi