ELEMENTS OF ANATOM Y. 432 attributed exclusively to the tendon of the orbicularis muscle, so much so, that, in the operation for fistula lacrymalis, we are strictly enjoined not to cut through the tendon, lest a puckering of the eyelids be produced by their line of exten- sion being destroyed. The fact, on the contrary, is, that a ligamentous matter, behind this tendon, passes between the internal ends of the eye-lids and the posterior flat surface of the os unguis; so that, admitting the tendon of the orbicula- ris to be cut through, this ligament, assisted by the little mus- cle described, would prevent the dreaded deformity. The internal extremity of this posterior ligament is at least half an inch from the insertion of the orbicularis tendon into the na- sal process, and it brings the eye-lids into the curve, common- ly seen at their junction. The lacrymal ducts are involved in this posterior ligament, pjassing along it into the sac, instead of going along the edges of the commissure, as commonly de- scribed, just under the skin. The muscle attempted to be described must influence considerably the position of the puncta lacrymalia, by drawing them towards the ball of the eye, and keeping them in close contact with it; it is, there- fore, a very efficient means for regulating, so far the lacry- mal passages, and for securing the course of the tears. I am indebted to Dr Piiysick for a further suggestion, in regard to its other uses, which appears highly probable. In cases of extreme emaciation, it is well known, that the adipose matter, around the ball of the eye, is more or less absorbed, causing the eye to sink deeper into the orbit, and consequently to re- tire somewhat from the lids. The effect of the muscle is to draw the lids backwards, and to keep them applied on the ball. Again, in the elevation of the upper lid, or rather the drawing of it within the orbit, by the levator palpebrae, the tendency of the margin of the lid is to leave the ball; the up- per part of the little muscle obviates this tendency. As such appears to be the actions of the part, I must therefore coin- cide with him, in calling it Tensor Tarsi,—a name expres- sive of its functions. “ I am acquainted with a lady who possesses, in a striking degree, the use of this muscle; its action, in her, being in-