204 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. brane, which covers it, that it cannot be divided in perform- ing the lateral operation of lithotomy, unless it deviate from its usual course, which I have never seen take place, or un- less the surgeon has made his incision too much to one side, and too near the bone, or has used too broad a gorget. I have seen the lateral operation frequently performed, without having witnessed, on any one occasion, such a bleed- ing as proved fatal, or was at all alarming; on the contrary, the few ounces of blood lost tend to remove the risk of inter- nal inflammation, which is the most common cause of the death of persons who have been cut for the stone. Besides, I have now before me, the history in manuscript, of 120 patients who were cut for the stone, by that celebrated surgeon Mr Smith of Perth ; and there is not a single in- stance mentioned, in which haemorrhage occurred which proved dangerous. In the above observations, I am borne out by the concur- rent testimonies of those great surgeons Mr Pott, Sir J. Earle*, Mr Martineau *f-, and Professor Scarpa j. The peritonaeum may be cut, and the cavity of the abdo- men exposed, by the recto-vesical operation, as the place of the reflection of that membrane, from the bladder of urine to the intestinum rectum, is not uniform; in some it is nearer to the anus than in others. Scarpa has made mention of another objection to Mr Sanson’s operation. “ It cannot be performed without the division of the left seminal duct, or even of both, if the groove of the catheter be directed to the right side, and if, as is of- • “ I speak from my own experience, and that of Mr Pott, that 1 never knew a bleeding from an operation for atone prove of material or serious conse- quence.”— Vide Observations on the Operation for the Stone, 2d edition, p. 79. -J- “Not one (fatal case of hajmorrhage) has occurred, in the 57-1 patients cut in the Norwich Hospital; nor have I witnessed a fatal case in private prac- tice.”—London Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. <103. J “ The certainty of not wounding the pudendal artery is not an advantage of the recto-vesical operation exclusively : the dread of such an event no longer occu- pies the minds of our operators., now that they are conversant with anatomy, and skilled in the use of the scalpel.”—Vide his Letter to Mr Mauxoir of Geneva, on the Recto-Vesical Operation.