301 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY-. 1 lie orifices of the lymphatic vessels have been supposed to be obvious to the naked eye, as at the caput gallinaginis, where, by blowing into them, they may be filled with air. Were this the case, gross substances would enter into our lymphatic system, that could not get through the circulating, but would stick in the extremities of the arteries. The case is this: It is the mouths of the mucous ducts of the urethra which are visible at the caput gallinaginis; and, when these have been filled with mercury or melted wax, being very thin and tender, and lodged in a very loose cellular substance, they readily burst, and the liquor, getting out at a hole in them, runs zigzag in the cellular substance, tears as it goes on, and at last gets into a branch of a red vein or lymphatic which has been torn, just as we fill the lymphatics of the testicle by bruising the part and forcing in the mercury, when it gets into the lymphatic vessels. A strong argument against the opinion that the lymphatic vessels are absorbents, has been deduced from the non-disco- very of lymphatic vessels in the brain. But the existence of such vessels might as well be denied in other places. Who has shewn them within the bones or placenta ? The lympha- tic vessels are rendei*ed conspicuous by interrupting their course in living animals, which cannot be done in the brain, as the greater number probably are placed at the lower parts of it. There is strong proof, however, of their existence in the human brain *. The glands of the neck swell in the case of wounds and suppurations of the brain, and in hydro- cephalus interims ; and this would happen more frequently, if matter formed in the brain did not speedily produce fatal con- sequences. Conglobate glands are not found within the cra- nium, perhaps as they would have been unsafe there, from being liable to become swollen, when, by compressing the brain, they might have proved a cause of death. It may be added, the lymphatic glands in the neck are as near to the brain as those of the groin are to the foot; they • My Father has? given many arguments in favour of their existence in the brain, in his book on that organ.