ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 464 even a cause of nausea or sickness, as tobacco, become a source of infinite gratification. Those who are in the habit of tasting wines, acquire the power of discriminating the nicer shades of flavour, to which mankind in general are in- sensible. But this very exquisite degree of taste is speedily blunted, by tasting in rapid succession a variety of wines or spirits. There are some diseases which render the sense of taste so preternaturally acute, that, instead of being a source of plea- sure, it proves a source of pain ; and, on the other hand, from hysteria, catarrh, and other diseases, this sense often becomes obtuse. The tongue of a feverish patient being coated with a brown viscid mucus, is nearly insensible to the impression of sapid bodies. Though the tongue be the principal, it is not the only, seat of the sense of taste; the loss of that organ impairs, but does not completely destroy this sense, of which the Phil. Trans., and work of Blumenbach, affords distinct evidence. Besides, there are insects destitute of a tongue, but not of the sense of taste. The tongue of some birds is rather an or- gan of apprehension than of taste ; that, for instance, of the woodpecker is hard, horny, and in a great measure insen- sible. The tongue of the chameleon, is also rather an organ of apprehension than of taste : it is lodged in a sheath in the lower part of the mouth, and its extremity is besmeared by a very viscid glue. This animal catches its prey, by projecting its tongue to the distance of five or six inches. In the preceding volume *, the size, figure, and muscular structure of the tongue have been explained ; it therefore re- mains only to describe the nerves and bloodvessels proper to that organ. The tongue is supplied with nerves from three different sources, viz. from the fifth, eighth, and ninth pairs, and it is probable that some sapid bodies affect one set of nerves more than others. The origin and distribution of the first or ophthalmic part of the fifth pair, have been already described At present I • Page 499, et seq.