448 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. take their origin from the root of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. These muscles are fixed into the back-part of the ear, which is opposite to the concha auris. The muscles implanted upon the cartilage of the ear, are, ljtf, The Transversus auris, which takes its origin from the prominent part of the concha, on the dorsum of the ear, and is fixed opposite to the outer-side of the antihelix, and which is said to stretch the concha. 9.d, The Tragicus, which passes between the middle and outer part of the concha, and the point of the tragus, and which pulls the point of the tragus a little forwards. 3d, The Antitragus, which arises from the internal part of the cartilage that supports the antitragus, and is fixed into the extremity of the antitragus, pulls the point of the antitragus a little outwards, and depresses the extremity of the antihelix. 4th. The Helicis major, which passes between the upper and anterior part of the helix, and its cartilage above the tragus, which is thereby slightly depressed. 5th, The Helicis minor, which arises from the fore and under part of the helix, and is fixed into the crus of the helix, and which serves to draw the above parts nearer to each other. By means of the external cartilage of the ear, sounds are collected and transmitted into the internal ear : hence an im- perfection of the external ear, occasions a dulness of hearing; and the greater acuteness of hearing of quadrupeds is proba- bly to be imputed to the greater size of the external ear, and to the accurate manner in which they direct the ear to the source of the sound. The external ear is supplied with blood by the branches of the occipital and temporal arteries, and by nerves from the portio dura of the seventh pair. The Meatus Auditorius Externus is that crooked canal ex- tending; from the concha of the ear to the membrane ot the drum. It is composed of bone and cartilage, which is lined by a very fine skin, and defended from injury by a sebaceous