35 OF THE ANTERIOR AURICLE. vena cava superior, and vena cava inferior: This has been named by Lower, Tuberculwm; and the same name has been transferred to the corresponding portion of the human auricle: and, under this, an oval-shaped depression has been described ; but it is rather of a circular form ; and this is bound by pro- minent muscular substance. There is sometimes a small aperture in the upper part of this depression, even in the adult; though generally there is no such aperture. This depression or fossa is bounded by a portion of muscle, which, at its upper part, has thick edges, and which has been described by Vietjssens, under the name of Isthmus. The coronary vein is placed between the mouth of the ve- na cava inferior, and passage into the ventricle; and, over the termination of the vein, there is a valve like a crescent. There is an imperfect valve between the vena cava inferior, and the auricle, which is placed on the left side of the mouth of the vena cava inferior, and which covers one-half of the mouth of that vein. The membrane of the valve of the adult is ge- nerally perforated, and its convex edge is fixed to the union of the vena cava .and auricle. This imperfect valve, which is often cribriform, and com- monly called the Valve of Etjstachius, has a concave loose edge, looking obliquely upwards, and extending half way over the mouth of the vena cava inferior: this convex edge is fixed to that vein, and to the sinus of the right auricle. The size of the valve differs in different individuals; and in the fcetus, it is proportionally broader than in the adult. To give the current of the blood a particular course, more perfect valves are interposed between the auricles and ventri- cles, and at the mouths of the pulmonary artery and aorta. The valves are formed in part by the internal membrane of the heart and arteries, and with the addition of a certain proportion of tendinous substance. The valves between the auricles and ventricles, are com- posed of white, tough, and pliable membranes, from which se- veral small tendinous cords proceed and descend, to be fixed to the columnse earne* of the ventricles. c 2