ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 568 sels which are properly called Lacteal, as they are filled by a milky fluid, and receive the chyle from the lacteal vessels. This shews clearly the similarity in the function of the lacteal and lymphatic vessels. The resemblance between the liquors contained within lac- teal and lymphatic vessels, and in those cavities from which v take their rise, is very striking. Those from the liver are filled with bile, those from the intestines with chyle, and those from the lungs with a black substance. Wherever the acrid matter of disease or medicine is absorbed, the lymphatic ves- sels in the direct course of the lymph become inflamed and thickened, and may in many instances be felt as cords under the skin, and the glands connected with these lymphatic ves- sels become swollen between the part and the heart. If a blister be applied to the neck, the conglobate glands between it and the heart swell; if the blister be applied higher than the inguinal glands, these are not affected ; but if it be ap- plied to the foot, these glands generally szccll. In like manner we can trace the course of the venereal poison. The swelled gland or bubo is seated in the inguinal cluster, very near to the tendon of 'the external oblique, though the in- ferior cluster of inguinal glands be equally near to the place of infection, and they all receive the same nerves and circu- lating vessels; a circumstance which seems to me to admit of easy explanation, by supposing, that the venereal poison is directly translated through the lymphatic vessels, into these particular glands, with which they are more immediately and primarily connected, and in all the instances above enumerated, the lymphatic vessels may be traced like the cords under the finger, running into or very near to the inguinal glands. For the same reason, if a nurse receives the infection from a child at the nipple, the glands of the axilla swell. If the axillary glands be swollen, the disease has probably originated from the child; but if the child has imbibed the poison from its nurse, the lymphatic glands around the mouth of the child are, in the first place, contaminated. In like manner, the glands of the axilla arc often swelled, from dressing venereal