324 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. My Father remarks, that the nerves in the ear of fishes, which terminate on the semicircular canals, and in the sac which contains a cretaceous substance, suddenly become pel- lucid, which is owing chiefly to the white medullary sub- stance dividing into its constituent threads, or becoming thin- ner. It is in many instances very difficult to trace the very mi- nute branches of the nerves, they are so much interwoven with the structure of the part in which they terminate; and, in tracing the minute progress of the nerves, the anatomist is struck with the difficulty of distinguishing the nervous fibrils from the smaller branches of the arteries or veins, or from the threads of the cellular substance. I have seen, especially in the human penis, those membranous webs, in which the nerves terminate, and which consist of a minute plexus of nerves. Mr Swan has described other nerves, as having membranes of the same description connected with them ; and he adds, “ that, in the horse’s face, he found the trunks of the nerves having a very flat appearance, and the continuations of them having a round and thicker form ; and, in several places, he sa- tisfactorily observed that membranous and plexiform appear- ance with the naked eye, which nearly resembles the magni- fied termination of the minute nerves in the human body.” The nerves are conjoined in three different ways. 1^, The nerves are joined together at acute angles, and form plexuses. The greater number of nerves are composed of fasciculi, disposed in a longitudinal direction, in respect to each other; but the fasciculi of the par vagum of the eighth pair, and sympathetic nerve, are more regularly connected with each other; and their fibres cross each other, as in the ganglia of the nerves. 2(7, Nerves running in opposite directions, are connected by their small branches or apices of these branches forming' net- works, which, at first sight, seem to resemble the anastomoses of the bloodvessels. 3d, In certain parts of the body, several nerves enter into a knot, called ganglion, and from the opposite side of the knot nerves are sent out.