OF THE LATERAL OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 209 bladed knife, the edge of which is to be directed upwards, and the cut in the membranous part is then to be extend- ed backwards towards the prostate gland, in the same di- rection. For the division of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, I have exhibited in my surgical lectures, for several years past, a scalpel, with a small button on its back, which fits into the groove of the staff, and slips along it into the bladder *. The implanting this button or beak of the gorget (if it be used), into the groove of the staff, and keeping it there, is the most difficult part of the operation. To be certain that the button on the back of the knife is in the groove of the staff, it is well to move it up and down ; for, if it be not in the groove, it may pass sideways between the bladder and rectum. The surgeon must be careful that the button do not slip out of the groove, owing to the unskilful ness of the assistant, who may change the direction of the instrument, unsteadiness of the patient, or the resistance of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, into the cellular substance be- tween the bladder and rectum; for in such a case, the surgeon, supposing he had got into the bladder, might enter his for- ceps, and pinch and bruise the still undivided coats of the bladder. To'prevent the possibility of this very untoward circumstance, the button of the gorget invented by my Father is of such a form, that if it has been once inserted into the groove of the staff, in the membranous part of the urethra, it cannot get out of it, (unless it be broken off), until it is within the blad der. Lpon the bladder being divided, the forceps should be passed into it with their blades shut, in order that the si- tuation of the stone may be discovered. This being accom- plished, the blades are to be separated, the stone is to be grasped, and the stone withdrawn in the axis of the pelvis, * I am much gratified to find, that Langenbeck, one of the most distin- guished surgeons on the Continent, uses a knife of the same form as I shewed, and which differs from mine only in being a little larger.— Vide Mr S. Cooper’s Firtt Linen nf the Practice of Surgery, 4th edition, VOl. II. o