OF THE KIDNEYS. W parts of the body, and is always present even in the most ema- ciated persons. It is very abundant in granivorous animals, and commonly called Suet Each kidney has a smooth, glistening, dense, semi-opaque, purple-coloured capsule, which adheres to the surface of the gland by short, cellular threads. This capsule enters the con- cave part of the kidney, and is fixed to the coats of the blood- vessels. Upon the coats of the kidney being removed, the substance of the gland presents itself, which is of a red colour inclining to purple ; to the touch it is firm and somewhat elastic. In fishes this gland is much paler, softer and more easily torn than in the class Mammalia. When a kidney has been divided in a longitudinal direc- tion, it appears to be composed of two substances, which dif- fer in colour, texture, and in the arrangement of their consti- tuent parts. The outer, which, generally speaking, is five or six lines in breadth, is of a red colour, having a great many bloodves- sels in its composition, and when a portion of it is pressed be- tween the fingers, several small grains may be perceived. This has been called the cortical part, a name not perfectly apposite, as it sends a number of projections into the more interior part of the organ ; so that the words vascular and se- cretory part of the kidney, are less exceptionable, as convey- ing a distinct idea of the use of this part of the organ. The kidney internally is of a pale colour, and is divided into a number of radiated tubes, which converge towards given points; these in their progress become larger, and form between fourteen and eighteen conical-shaped bodies of differ- ent lengths, called the papillae of the kidney. Upon the sur- face of these papillae, a number of small orifices may be dis- tinguished, through .which the urine gradually distils, drop by drop, into the pelvis of the kidney. By throwing a penetrating injection into the renal artery, the tortuous vessels, composing the greater share of the cor- tical part of the kidney, are manifest, and the granules or