BRANCHES 01' THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 277 The First Branches of the Abdominal Aorta, called Phre- nic, are distributed upon the diaphragm. These are two in number. They cross over the crura of the larger muscle of the diaphragm, and are distributed on every part of this muscle. There is much variety, in different instances, as to the distribution of the branches of this artery on the dia- phragm. In a few cases, the phrenic arteries are derived from the coeliac; and, in some examples, there are three or four phrenic arteries. Some of the,smaller branches of the phrenic artery are distributed upon the renal capsules, on the right side of the pancreas, liver, and ligaments of the spleen. The next branch, called cceliac, is large and short, and arises from the fore-part of the aorta, where it is placed between the crura of the diaphragm, nearly opposite to the eleventh verte- bra of the back, and it lies between the lobule of Spigelius and left part of the lesser curvature of the stomach. This artery subdivides immediately into three branches; the *Supe- rior Gastric, Hepatic, and Splenic arteries. The superior gastric, or superiou coronary artery, is the smallest of the branches. It ascends, passes to the left side, and forwards; is distributed chiefly on the smaller arch of the stomach, and right side of the cardia: it then descends to- wards the right, along the smaller curvature of the stomach, and gives branches, which anastomose with the arteries of the gullet. The branches of this artery are distributed to the diaphragm and omentum minus; and others anas- tomose freely with the ramifications of the hepatic and splenic arteries. T he splenic is the largest branch of the coeliac. This ar- tery runs, in a tortuous manner, transversely along the poste- rior part of the body, and then on the upper part of the pan- creas, to which it gives several branches, and divides in the notch of the spleen, into five or six branches, which carry blood to every part of that organ. A large artery is derived from this trunk, called the gastri- ca inferior sinistra, which passes along the greater curva- ture of the stomach, and communicates with the gastrica dex-