340 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. From the fourth sacral nerves, filaments are sent to the hypogastric plexus of nerves, and to the parts around the anus; and the fifth sacral gives nerves to the coccygeus mus- cles. The sciatic nerve passes obliquely through the notch of the os ilium ; then between the tuber ischii and trochanter major, where it is covered and protected by the gluteus maximus. The sciatic nerve descends in the back part of the thigh be- tween the long flexor and abductor maximus, and then into the ham, where it is called popliteal nerve. In this course, it gives off small branches to the scrotum of the male, and to the labia of the female; to the perineum; to the long head of the biceps; and a few subcutaneous branches, which terminate in the skin of the calf of the leg. It has been recommended to compress the sciatic nerve, where it passes between the tuber ischii and trochanter major, in order to render the pain the patient suffers during amputa- tion less severe. But upon trial, the compressing that nerve has been found in a short time to create very uneasy sensa- tions, and, in the course of an hour, the pain becomes so great as to be intolerable; the parts on which the nerves are distributed lose their sensation and power of motion, and, on some occasions, the sensation does not return until forty or fifty hours have elapsed. Mr Swan has published the case of a man afflicted by paraplegia, whose bladder was very much distended. He states, “ that, after drawing off two quarts of urine, the lower extremities were more sensible, and that is known to every one, who has been in a position to press the sciatic nerve, and has experienced the sensation that arises when the pressure is removed.” Sudden pressure completely destroys the functions of the nerves. Several instances of persons who have fallen upon the buttocks, have occurred in this city, where the fall was followed by complete insensibility of the inferior extremities. From what has been said respecting the pernicious effects of pres- sure, it may be supposed that it should never be applied to a nerve. Pressure has been much recommended for the cure