501 OF THE NINTH PAIR OF NERVES. Galen, Vesalius, Bidloo, Morgagni, and others, have affirmed, that, if the recurrent nerves are cut, the voice is en- tirely lost. But as the larynx receives a pair of superior la- ryngeal, as well as recurrent nerves, my Grandfather sus- pected that such experiments had not been made with suffi- cient accuracy. In 1752, my Father ascertained that this was really the case ; for, at that time, assisted by the ingeni- ous Dr Emmett, he cut those nerves in a small dog, and ob- served, that, although the voice of the animal was very sensibly altered in tone, and weakened, yet it was far from being lost; nay, in the course of six weeks, the strength of the voice was in a considerable degree restored. Hence, there was reason to conclude, that each of the muscles received branches from the superior laryngeal nerves. “ Since that time (he adds) I have found, on dissecting the nerves of the human larynx, that the recurrent and superior laryngeal nerves are joined together by their apices, or that they form a plexus, resembling that of the nerves of the face; and that, from both nerves, each muscle of the larynx receives branches.” Of the Ninth Pair of Nerves. The ninth pair has been already described, with the ex- ception of that nerve called the Descendens Noni. The ninth pair, in its descent, winds round the external carotid artery, just below the rise of the occipital artery ; and, at this place, the descendens noni takes its rise. This branch descends along the common carotid artery, rather more than mid-way between the os hyoides and breast-bone, and it unites with small branches of the first, second, and third cervical nerves; and, after this junction, small nerves are sent to the upper part of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The de- scendens noni maybe injured by a surgeon in performing the operation for the carotid aneurism, as it lies in front of the tu- mour. Of the Sympathetic Nerve. The origin of this nerve has been already described.