47 OF THE VEINS. The small branches of the arteries may, by the microscope, be observed to be continuous with the veins, which fact may be made very obvious by a coloiu-ed injection. There are veins which correspond with the arteries, which are filled by the coloured part of the blood ; and others, which correspond with the arteries, which are so small, as to admit onlv the colourless part of the blood. The capacity, and also the number of the veins, surpasses that of the arteries; according to Halt.er, the inferior cava is to the aorta as 16 to 9- But there are some exceptions to this rule; thus, the renal, bronchial, and some other veins, are smaller than the corresponding arteries. The proportional bulk of the veins differs at different pe- riods of life. In early life the veins are small when com- pared with the arteries, but in old age, the veins are propor- tionally much larger. It seems to me impossible to form an exact ratio between the size of the arteries and that of the corresponding veins during life, as the size of the veins varies according to. the decree of their distention ; and a calculation made after death is apt to lead to error, as, owing to the cause of death, the coats of the veins, which are very distensible, yield more or less, and are more or less distended by different diseases. Thus, in cases of asphyxia, death from hanging, and apo- plexy, blood is accumulated in the veins ; but in other diseases they are nearly empty. Much also depends upon the position of the dead-body : thus, as a dead body is generally laid on its back, that por- tion of the lungs which is undermost is always of a deeper colour than the upper portions of the same organ. The ratio of the size of arteries and veins differs in differ- ent organs : thus the pulmonary, renal, and thymic, veins bear a smaller proportion to the arteries of the organs, than in other parts of the body. The veins of different sizes unite, and the angles formed by their union are different; most frequently they are acute, but at other times obtuse. The course of the veins is not similar to that of the ar-