ELEMENTS OF ANATOM V. 32 upon the laws which regulate the vital functions. That dis- tinguished physiologist has shewn *, 1st, That the power of the heart and bloodvessels is independent of the brain and spinal chord; and, consequently, he has refuted the opinion of Mr Le Gallois, that the heart derives power from the spinal chord. 2d, He has also explained the relation which exists between the nervous and circulating systems, pointing out, that both the heart and bloodvessels may be influenced through the nervous systems, though they be independent of it, thus explaining why they are supplied with nerves; and, conse- quently, doing away the objection that has always been urged against the opinion of Hali.eii, that, according to his view of the subject, the nerves of the heart appear to be useless,— an objection to which he never gave a satisfactory reply-]*, and which appears to be the only cause which prevented his opi- nion of the independence of the power of the heart being uni- versally received. 3d, That the heart and bloodvessels are in- fluenced by every part of the brain and spinal chord, while the muscles of voluntary motion are only influenced by the parts in the immediate vicinity of the origin of their nerves J. The last general circumstance relating to the heart is, that its muscular parietes admit of considerable dilatation, which is either general or only partial. By some of the organic dis- eases of the heart, the size of the cavities is not only increased, but also the thickness of their muscular parietes; but, in others, the muscular substance is increased, but not the size of its cavities; so that it shall weigh two or three pounds. An enlargement of the heart generally gives rise to an ef- fusion of wrater within the sacs of the pleurae, or within the pericardium, and is often accompanied or followed by chronic inflammation of the heart. The partial enlargement of the heart is often the effect of a mechanical obstruction to the circulation of the blood, as from ossification of its valves, or of those of the aorta. * Chapter I. of his Enquiry into the Vital Functions, 2d edit. f Vide Chap. II. of his Enquiry. + Vide Chap. IV. of his Enquiry.