355 OF THE BRAIN. to two halves, by a line drawn from the fore to the back part, its opposite sides would be equal; whereas, if the brain be examined with great care, it will be found, that the opposite halves are neither exactly similar as to size nor as to shape, an observation which applies not only to the surface, but also to the internal parts of the brain. Thus, we sometimes ob- serve the convolutions of one side of the brain much more prominent than those of the opposite side. There is also a most marked difference as to the size of the thalami or colli- culi nervorum opticorum, and of the corpora striata of the la- teral ventricles. The brain is divided only to a certain extent into two he- mispheres, by a fissure ; and on examining the bottom of the fissure, after gently pushing the hemispheres asunder, a white body, about half the length of the hemispheres, comes into view, which unites them, and is lost in their substance, and which has been called the greatest Commissure, or Corpus cal- losum. Each hemisphere is greater in length than breadth, slight- ly and uniformly arched above, irregular beneath, subdivided into three lobes, and flat next the falx. The anterior lobes rest upon the orbitar processes of the frontal bone. The middle lobe, which is separated from the anterior by the fossa Sylvii, occupies the cavity formed by the sphenoid and temporal bones; and the posterior lobes rest upon the tentorium cerebello super-extensum. The brain of the ape is divided, like the human brain, in- to two great hemispheres, which are nearly similar in form and size; these are subdivided into lobes: but the hemis- pheres are flatter and shorter than in man, and the convolu- tions are smaller, more equal in size, in figure, and direction, and not so numerous as in man. In the porpoise, however, they are smaller and more numerous. On the surface of the brain there are many prominences, or convolutions, which correspond with the inner concavities on the inner table of the skull, not unlike the turns of the intestines, but which are not uniform as to breadth, shape, or size. z 2