34 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. heart stronger, and also assist in incorporating the parts of the blood more intimately, and in preventing its coagulation. The cavities of the heart, and also its valves, are lined by a very thin, but dense membrane, which prevents the blood from insinuating itself between the muscular fibres of the heart. On each side of the heart, there are veins, an auricle, and a ventricle, communicating by large rounded apertures, and an artery. The corresponding cavities of the opposite sides of the heart are different as to the thickness of their parietes, and the colour of the included blood. The parietes of the an- terior, or pulmonic heart, are thinner than those of the poste- rior or systematic heart, and the pulmonic heart is filled by blood of a dark purple colour, but the systematic heart con- tains blood of a brilliant red colour. Of the Anterior Auricle. The anterior auricle is situated on the right, and towards the basis of the heart. Upon laying the auricle fully open, the projecting anterior flattened and notched part, which lies in front of the aorta, and bears but a distant resemblance to the ear of a dog, is found to resemble the internal surface of the ventricle; and the columnse carneae being disposed some- what like the teeth of a comb, have been hence named Mu-s- culi Pcctinati of the Auricle. The sreater shai'e of the auricle is smooth, and has been named the Sinus, which seems to be formed by, and to be the continuation of the large veins through which the blood flows into the auricle, called Vena cava. The muscular parietes of the auricles are so thin as to be semitransparent; and, on stretching the auricles, it is evident that, in some places, there is no muscular substance between the muscular fasciculi; for the outer and the internal mem- branes of the heart come into contact with each other. The muscular flesh of the auricle is much thinner than that of the ventricle, as the auricle, by its contraction, merely pro- pels the blood into the ventricle. In the quadruped, there is a distinct projection of that part of the auricle, which intervenes between the entrance of the