ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 364 were distended with the water; but on cutting into one he- misphere, the other subsided. “ This seemed to prove a communication of the lateral ven- tricles, but as the brain was soft, and the dissection made in a hurry, I did not exactly observe the place of it. On looking into practical authors, they I found agreed, that the water almost always occupies both lateral ventricles at the same time : Yet it could hardly, I thought, be supposed, that this was owing to the rupture of the septum, (improperly named Lucidum,) and it could still less be supposed, owing to the similarity in the structure of the two lateral ventricles, since we do not often observe similar parts affected with dropsy at the same time. Thus for instance, we very seldom observe a dropsy at the same time in the vaginal coats of both testes. Soon after this, 1 opened the head of a girl of eight or nine years of age, who likewise had died of hydrocephalus, with the same event, and drew off from the ventricles of the brain near four pounds of water, as all who were present reckoned, for we did not measure the quantity. The whole substance of the brain was unusually hard and tough, and the collection of water 1 conjectured to be owing to a scirrhosity, which I remarked in the tuber annulare and one of the crura cere- belli. “ After laying open both lateral ventricles longitudinally, I took hold of the corpus callosum, and raising it gently, and with it the septum lucidum and fornix, I observed and de- monstrated to Mr J. Monro, Mr Halley, and several stu- dents of physic, a passage large enough in this subject to ad- mit the finger, under the fore part of the body erf the fornix, by which the lateral ventricles communicated with each other, and with the top of the third ventricle. “ That winter, 1 demonstrated this passage in the body of a malefactor, and have always since found it at the very same place of the brain, whether I examined the sound or the di*op- sical brain, with the difference only, that in the latter it teas always enlarged. In all my dissections of the bodies of child- ren who had died of hydrocephalus, (and I have now dis- sected seven), all the water was lodged within the \entricles.