76 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. is concave, and its border, which is thinner than any other part of the cartilage, is folded towards the tongue. The epiglottis is connected with the mucous membrane of the tongue; it forms three folds, of which the middle one is the most conspicuous, and has been called by some authors thefrocnum epiglottidis. The epiglottis is not of an uniform thickness ; it is rather thicker below than above. The epiglottis is very elastic, and of a pale colour, when divested of its membrane, and in structure resembles the car- tilages of the ear. There are a few scattered and pale colour- ed muscular fibres under the membrane, which connects the points of the arytenoid cartilages to the epiglottis ; these, on ac- count of their situation, have been called the aryteno-epiglot- toidei muscles. In some individuals no such muscular fibres can be traced. Of the Ligaments of the Larynx, or Vocal Chords. The vocal chords, which are about half an inch long, take their rise from the fore part of the arytenoid cartilages, and extend backwards in a horizontal direction to the angle form- ed by the junction of the wings of the thyroid cartilage ; and between these there is a chink called the rima glottidis. When the larynx is inflamed, the rima glottidis is so much contracted as to give rise to difficult breathing. The patient inspires with difficulty, the voice has a croupy sound, but he expires readily. There are also two vocal chords, which are somewhat larger than the preceding, which extend between the bases of the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages; and between the superior and inferior vocal chords there is a small cavity, capable of admitting the point of the little finger, called the ventricle of the larynx. The larynx is lined by a very sensible mucous membrane, which forms opposite to the arytenoid cartilages a horizontal fold, that passes directly forwards, and is joined to the angle formed by the wings of the thyroid cartilage. The membrane is continued downwards; it lines the cavi-