ORGANS OF CIRCULATION AND RESPIRATION. 3 The air enters the bodies of caterpillars and insects, that are provided with bloodvessels but no heart, by a number of apertures, called Spiracula, which communicate with two air- vessels which extend from the head to the tail: Hence there is no part of the body on which the air does not exert its che- mical effects; and when they move, the blood may be seen passing from one extremity to the other, of a tube situated upon the back. In the class Amphibia, there is a peculiarity of structure, viz. a communication between the ventricles of the heart, in order that these animals may remain under water for some time wilhout a supply of air. There is a very singular circumstance connected with the admission of the air into the bodies of many insects, which merits mention. During the winter, the spiracula through which the air enters are shut, whereby the animal falls into a torpid state ; but upon the return of spring, the air retained within the tubes connected with the spiracula becomes ex- panded by the heat of the atmosphere, and the orifices of the spiracula are forced open. The simplest apparatus by which the blood is exposed to the influence of the air, exists in the egg, before the chicken is hatched ; the air passing through the porous egg.shell, which is lined by a vascular membrane. A constant supply of fresh air is not equally necessary to the continuance of the life of every class of animals ; for there are some animals that can live without a fresh supply of air longer than others. The reptiles in general can live for hours without a supply of air. Leeches live for hours without air, and when covered with oil; and Camdori lately found the same to hold true in re- spect to land tortoises, which respire by lungs. (Vide Italian Phys. Journal, vol. ix. p. 318.) The young of animals must receive their portion of air ; for the impregnated eggs of insects, and even of fishes, do not produce young, unless they are supplied with air. Sir IIumphey Davy found, that the eggs of moths do not a 2