ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. J2 Vessels : but as these vessels constitute a part of the Absorb- ent system, in order to avoid unnecessary repetition, it is pro- posed to postpone such description, until the structure and functions of the absorbent system at large shall be explained. The lacteal vessels convey the chyle into the beginning of a duct, called the Thoracic, which is inserted into the angle formed by the union of the left subclavian and internal jugu- lar veins in the neck. The chyle is therefore mixed with the blood very near to the heart, and speedily passes through the lungs, which is necessary for the incorporation of the recent chyle with the old blood ; or in the lungs, the process of di- gestion is completed. From the heart, there are canals or Arteries, through which the blood is distributed over the body for its growth and nourishment; and there is a reversed system of vessels, called Veins, through which the blood flows back to the heart. The functions of circulation and respiration, have an imme- diate reference to, and dependence upon each other. The object of the latter is, to produce a change on the blood by the agency of the atmospherical air; and, accordingly, in all animals, the mechanism is such, that a large surface is exposed to the influence of the air. In the mammalia and birds the air enters, by a tube or tubes, into cellular lungs ; and in these animals there are two circu- lations. The heart is double ; one is appropriated to the cir- culation of blood through the lungsthe other, and stronger heart, is destined to the circulation of the blood through the system at large. But in the oyster and fishes, that receive air with which the water is impregnated, and which passes be- tween the folds of their gills, there is only one heart; and fishes in the egg or spawn, also derive their oxygen from the air that is dissolved in the water. In some animals, therefore, the heart propels the blood in- to the lungs and body at large, but, in others, to the lungs only; and, in a third class, as in the flying insects, to the body only. In these last animals the veins carry the blood to the heart, which propels it into the arteries that are diffused over the body.