458 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Through the inferior portion, at the bottom of the internal passage, the nerves pass to the cochlea, and a few small nerves to the vestible; and through the upper portion the nerves pass into the vestible. My Father had stated : « With a great deal of pains I detached the os petrosum, and the whole external osseous shell of the cochlea, from its interior membranes, and then took out the membranes, with the modiolus and lamina spiralis, suspended by the trunk of the portio mollis; so that, by proper dissection, I could trace, and see distinctly, not only the division of the portio mollis into its larger branches, but the whole progress and termina- tion of these. « I found, that the portio mollis is composed of two branches, nearly equal in size; one of which supplies the ves- tible and semicircular canals; and the other the cochlea * <c That each branch consists of a great number of small cords -j*. « That the small cords of both branches pass through dif- ferent minute holes, into the vestible and cochlea, or, that the bottom of the canal, in the back-part of the os petrosum, com- monly called Meatus auditoriits interims, is cribriform +. a As the osseous partitions, which divide the cochlea into its gyri, as well as the lamina spiralis, which divides gyri into°scal®, are connected to the circumference of the mo- diolus, we might expect to find the branches of the portio mollis conducted from the modiolus to the membranes lin- ing the cochlea, by means of these partitions, or between or alono- the outer sides of the two osseous plates which compose them, as well as between the two lamellae which compose the lamina spiralis, or along the outer sides of these, as we would suppose that the two sides of each scala should have nerves distributed on them in the same manner. “ Accordingly, on prosecuting the branches or fibres of « Vide Nervous System, tab. xxx. fig. 1, 2, 3, 4, o. t Vide Nervous System, tab, xxxi. fig, 1, 2, 3, A A. + Vide Nervous System, tab. xxix. fig. 12. XY Z cede.