BLOODVESSELS OF THE SPINAL MARROW. 511 The second cervical nerve, after passing between the vertebrae, is united to the middle ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and also to the third cervical nerve. From this nerve a small filament passes, to form the begin- ning of the phrenic nerve. A considerable branch of this nerve emerges from be- hind the sterno-mastoid, alter having passed around that muscle, divides into the following branches: a branch which passes downward along the jugular vein; a branch which as- sists in forming the phrenic nerve; a branch which divides into many branches, viz. the inferior cutaneous nerve, which supplies the parts of the lower jaw; the middle cutaneous nerve, which supplies the parts around the angle of the jaw; and a branch which supplies the back-part of the ear, called posterior auricular, and which subdivides into branches, which are distributed on the back-part of the ear and temple, the platysma muscle, the parotid gland, and which communi- cate with the portio dura of the seventh pair. The continuation of the second cervical nerve is spent up- on the extensor muscles of the head and neck, and the leva- tor scapula?. The third cervical nerve joins with the middle gan- glion of the sympathetic nerve, with the trunk of the fourth cervical nerve, and assists in forming the 'phrenic nerve. A branch of this nerve joins with the middle ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and also with the descending branch of the ninth pair, which has been well represented by Bang. This nerve afterwards divides into external and internal branches; the former supplies the upper part of the scapula, the latter supplies the muscles and skin at the upper part of the neck and shoulder. The fourth cervical sends branches to the middle gan- glion of the sympathetic nerve, to the deep muscles of the neck, glands of the neck, and is connected to the phrenic nerve, and to the fifth cervical nerve. This nerve sends branches, which are spent upon the ante- rior scalenus and trapezius muscles; and upon the latter muscle it communicates with the accessory nerve.