ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 244 which communicate with the branch of the intermaxillary, which comes out at the foramen infra-orbilarium. n he labial arteries are often much enlarged in the disease called Aneurism, by anastomoses, and pulsate violently when- ever the circulation of the blood is accelerated. When it is necessary to cut out a portion of the lip, on ac- count of cancer, or to perform the operation for the cure of a hare-lip, it is useful to compress the angular artery against the under jaw; as thus the flow of blood may be checked du- ring the operation. A branch called posterior artery of the ear, is derived from the external carotid : in its course through the substance of the parotid gland, it is spent on the back part of the ear. 7. The occipital is a large branch of the external carotid. It is covered by the digastric muscle at its origin. It passes across the jugular vein, and between the mastoid process and first vertebra of the neck; in which course it is cover- ed by the posterior part of the digastric trachelo-mastoid, splenius, and complexus muscles, and at length, becoming subcutaneous, subdivides into many branches, which are dis- tributed upon the middle of the back part of the head, and which anastomose with those of the posterior branch of the temporal artery. This artery also gives off branches to the digastric muscle, to the cervical glands, and anastomoses with the thyroid artery. A branch of this artery, called auricular, supplies the lobe of the ear, the parotid gland, and upper part of the sterno- mastoid muscle. A branch of this artery passes downwards, and is distribu- ted upon the trachelo-mastoid muscle, and the other adjacent muscles. 8. The transverse artery of the face is derived from the external carotid, within the substance of the parotid gland, before it sends off the temporal and intermaxillary arteries. This artery passes through the anterior margin of the paro- tid gland, ascends somewhat over the masseter muscle, passes under the levator anguli oris, and zygomatic muscles, and anastomoses with the branches of the angular artery.