ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY". 506 ilietic nerve, and joined to each other by large arches, from which the muscles of the head, trunk, and extremities, are suc- cessively supplied. Hence the heart, lungs, stomach, and other organs, on which life must immediately depend, and on which the branches of the sympathetic nerve are distributed, are not on account of the sympathetic nerve being connected with the brain, as well as with the spinal cord, in less dan- ger of being deprived of the nervous influence than the mus- cles of the limbs, the organs of voluntary motion, which re- ceive their nerves only from the nerves connected with the spi- nal cord. The spinal cord has been thought by some anatomists, to be tbe prolongation of the brain and cerebellum; but my Fa- ther found, in a monster born without a head, the spinal cord and nerves connected with it, as large as in a perfect child; so that it is independent of the brain. Bloodvessels of the Spinal Marrow. The bloodvessels of the spinal marrow are derived from the vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries. The anterior spinal arteries take their rise from the verte- bral arteries; descend along the whole of the anterior surface of the spinal marrow, and in the neck anastomose with the thyroid and cervical arteries, and in the back with the inter- costal and lumbar arteries. The posterior and smaller arteries of the spinal marrow are derived from the inferior cervical arteries of the cerebellum, or from the trunks of the vertebral arteries within the skull. These arteries of the spinal marrow are subdivided into very small branches, which are distributed upon the medulla and its membranes *. The veins of the spinal marrow accompany the arteries, and end in the venous sinuses of the spine, which extend from the foramen magnum of the os occipitis, to the under end of the os sacrum, and are lodged in the ligamentous membrane, which lines the vertebral canal; and the blood from these ve- * Vide London Med. and Phys. Journal, July 1921, 15.