270 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. minished by pressure, which happens to a certain degree ia the true aneurism. I he back part of the humeral artery has been sometimes wounded during venesection, and the blood lias insinuated it- self behind the humeral artery: in that rare case, (which fell under the notice of my Father), the artery was stretched a- cross the front of the tumour. Many persons have lost their lives from venesection, or from having met with a slight wound from the point of a pin, needle, or small piece of glass; or from puncturing their fin- gers during dissection. I have seen many such instances, and have endeavoured by dissection to discover the cause of death. The appearances are not uniform. In some, there were evident traces during life, and after death, of an inflammation of the vein that had been opened. The lips of the wound of the vein had not united ; they were swollen and everted, or slightly joined by a thin film of cuticle, which burst, and after which a thin watery fluid was dis- charged. After death the 'coats of the vein were evidently thickened : it was lined by a thin coating of coagulable lymph, and contained pus. In other instances the vein had a fibrous appearance like a nerve, and when pressed was evidently a solid chord; and what is remarkable, the inflammation had proceeded only as far as the axillary vein, where it suddenly stopped. In some instances, the subcutaneous nerve in the vicinity of the vein that had been opened, was swelled and evidently inflamed. I have never been able to satisfy myself by dissection as to the enlargement and induration of the superficial lymphatic vessels of the arm, though I have frequently observed a mani- fest enlargement of the lymphatic glands of the axilla. In the greater number of instances, there was a watery fluid in the cellular membrane of the arm, shoulder, and upper part of the breast, and in some, purulent matter ; and within these few years, I have seen several instances of complete dis- organization in the parts of the arm. Different opinions have been entertained as to the cause of