ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 474, By intermarriage, the children exhibit, as to complexion, the middle tints between the father and mother, and what is remarkable, these children, called Mulattoes, (the first gene- ration between Negroes and Europeans), have exactly the same colour, in all climates; for it matters not whether they be born in Europe, Africa or America. Europeans and mulattoes produce Mestizos ; in them the skin has a slight brown tint, and the cheeks are red. In the Dutch colonies they often have blue eyes and fair hair. The stain of the black blood is principally visible in the or- gans of generation; the scrotum is blackish in the male, and the labia pudendi dark or purplish in the female. Zambos are the produce of Negroes and Americans. Of the Layers of the Skin. The skin is composed of four layers; of the cuticle or epi- dermis, of the rete mucosum, or corpus mucosum, and of the true skin, with a number of papillae upon some parts of it. Of the Cuticle, Epidermis, or Scarf Skin. The cuticle is common to all animals: it is firm and hard in its texture in land animals, but smooth and pliable in aqua- tic animals. The cuticle is found even in the youngest foetus; and while the foetus is in utero, it is coated by a more copious secretion from the sebaceous glands, than after birth. The cuticle covers the whole of the true skin, excepting under the nails: it covers thousands of vessels which transpire or absorb; and the various papillae destined to render the sense of touch and taste more acute. The cuticle is thin, of a greyish colour, and adheres very intimately to the subja- cent true skin, by a number of fine threads : in the dead body, it can only be separated after a slight degre of putrefac- tion has taken place, or by putting the skin into boiling wa- ter, for about a minute,, During!life,.by. the application of.a blister, by collections of matter, and by, the effects of disease, the cuticle may be de- tached ft*om the true skin; and when thus raised, pricking