316 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. branches of the nerves follow a retrograde course. Some nerves do not subdivide, but they unite and form plexuses from which trunks of nerves take their origin. The branches of the nerves, like those of the arteries, if put together, are considerably larger than their trunks, so that they are much more extensive at their terminations. There are cords passing from one nerve to another, and at the seat of these communications, there is an enlargement of the nervous substance, called a Ganglion. There are some nerves which are suddenly expanded into a ganglion, and afterwards contracted. The nerves at first sight appear to be similar as to colour, strength, and form ; but upon a minute inspection, they are found to be essentially different in all these particulars. The texture and chemical analysis of the matter that composes the brain and nerves are similar, and I purpose to describe it un- der the article Brain. The nerves of the higher orders of animals are dense whitish cords. I have examined those of the human body two hours after death, and have remarked, that they had somewhat of a pur- plish grey colour, and had a shining silvery appearance. There is a considerable difference as to the size of the nerves of different individuals, which is not connected with their stature. They vary in size at different periods of life, being considerably larger in the middle than in the decline of life, and they shrink in consequence of palsy and other dis- eases. The shrinking of the nerves of the eye is very obvi- ous, when an eye has been lost; and I have observed, that the shrinking takes place in the tractus opticus of the opposite side. I shewed this circumstance five or six years ago to a German anatomist Dr Killigan, (who has devoted much at- tention to the structure of the nerves,) in a preparation I had at the time made, and which was taken from the body of a person who had lost the sight of one of his eyes twenty years before his death. There is also a difference as to the size of the nerves of the different sexes; the nerves of the female are undoubtedly smaller than those of the male.