OF THE CEREBELLUM. 375 The cerebellum is divided, like the brain, into two great parts or hemispheres, by its falciform process of the dura ma- ter ; and the space between is called the commissure. This organ, in the adult, is about the eighth or ninth part of the brain in weight. It bears a much smaller proportion to the brain in a child than in the adult; for in the former it is not above the sixteenth part of the weight of the brain. According to the Wenzels, the greatest change, in the proportions which the cerebellum bears to the brain, takes place during the first four years of life. In extreme old age, the cerebellum bears to the brain the proportion of 1 to 7, or 1 to 8. In the inferior animals it is proportionally larger, and lobulated. The cerebellum is in form somewhat oval; it is rather flat- tened above, rounded below, and proportionally much broad- er than the brain. The long diameter of the cerebellum is transverse, and about four inches; but it varies in form, at different periods of life: according to the Wenzels, “quo minores aetate sunt subjecta, eo arctius ambo cerebelli climidia, invicem sibi ac- clinantur.” The cerebellum presents a laminated surface. The la- minae are between a line and a line and a half, in thickness, and are disposed in a concentric and regular manner, in re- spect to each other; they are long and prominent behind, and shorter before; and there are grooves between them, into which the pia mater insinuates itself. The number of laminae is between 90 and 100, in most cases. The cerebellum of the ape tribe is much liker to that of man than in the other inferior animals. On the anterior and middle part of the upper surface of the cerebellum, there is a process or elongation of the cere- bellum, called its Vermiform process. Each of the hemispheres is subdivided into small lobules. The cerebellum is composed cf grey and white substance; and the white matter seems, when the cerebellum is cut vertically, near to its middle line, to be distributed through