443 OF SOUND. tinned during a certain short space of time. On this princi- ple depends the whole success of the juggler, who contrives to change the situation of the various objects before us with a rapidity exceeding the ordinary exercise of sight or touch. A brand whirled swiftly round the head gives all the appear- ance of a circle of fire; and if one press, very hard an ivory ball between his fingers, he will still seem to feel it for several instants after it has been withdrawn. 44 To excite the sensation of sound, it is requisite that the aerial pulses should have a certain force and duration. Ac- cording to some observations, the ear is not affected at all, unless the tremulous impulse communicated to the tympa- num last during the tenth part of a second. Every pulsation of a more transient kind is lost absolutely and completely to our organ of hearing. 44 On the other hand, the impression of sound is not prolong- ed beyond the time of its actual production. If it were other- wise, indeed, all sounds would degenerate into indistinct noises; and articulate discourse, which distinguishes man from the lower animals, and constitutes the charm of social life, would have been utterly impossible. This fact, so obvious, and yet so important, shews indisputably, that the propagation of so- norous pulses through the atmosphere is not, in all its cir- cumstances, analogous to the succession of waves on the sur- face of water. 44 Sounds are always heard the most audibly, and at the greatest distance, in a level open country; or, still better, on the smooth surface of a vast lake, or of the ocean itself. The roaring of the cannon in certain naval engagements has been noticed at points so very remote from the scene of ac- tion, as might seem, if not perfectly authenticated, to be alto- gether incredible- 44 On the other hand, again, sound is enfeebled and dissi- pated sooner in alpine regions. Thus, the traveller roving at some height above a valley, descries, with uncommon clear- ness, perhaps a huntsman on the brow of the opposite moun- tain, and while he watches every flash, yet can he scarcely hear the report, of the fowling-piece.'”