14? OF TI1E BEADDEK OF UltINE. k 2 There are some instances, according to Haller, in which the bladder of the adult rises nearly as much above the ossa pubis, as that of an infant. The bladder of the adult, when moderately distended, is in shape like an egg, with the larger extremity undermost: it is somewhat flattened in front, and also behind : its up- permost part is directed upwards and forwards, and the lower part downwards and backwards; and the distance from the upper to the under part of this organ, is greater than from side to side. By disease, the form of the bladder is materially altered ; thus from the irritation of a stone, it is sometimes contracted in its middle, like a sand-glass, or divided, in its under part, into two lateral portions. The breadth of the bladder is not the same in both sexes; that of the female is rounder and broader than that of the male ; and, from continued distention, acquires a larger size. According to Celsus, the bladder sometimes inclines to one side, owing to the peritonaeum being attached obliquely to the bladder. The bladder of a woman who has had several children is generally larger than that of a virgin, owing to the enlarged womb having impeded the ft'ee exit of the urine. The blad- der is sometimes much contracted, as happens in persons who have suffered a violent death ; or from an extraneous body ha- ving been lodged within it, its coats are much thickened, and its capacity is diminished. Hence, before attempting the operation of lithotomy, it is of the greatest moment to ascer- tain whether the bladder will rise above the ossa pubis. Thus we learn whether the coats of the bladder be in their sound and distensible state or not. For the sake of more accurate decsription, anatomists de- scribe the Fundus, or upper part of the bladder, the body and the neck of that organ. The bladder is retained in its place, 1 st, By the peritonaeum, which is reflected from the rec- ti and pyramidales muscles of the abdomen, and which covers the upper posterior part of the bladder, and also a portion of the sides of it. 9.d, By the impervious umbilical arteries and