OF THE CONTENTS OF THE PELVIS. 199 tiguous bowels, or in bringing about an alteration in their si- tuation, and also respecting the propagation of inflammation and other organic derangements from one bowel to another. Before proceeding to perform the operation of lithotomy, the age, state of body, and posture of the patient, merit attention. I have frequently seen the operation performed on boys be- tween six and twelve years of age with success. Cheselden cut 105 under ten years of age, of whom only three died; four out of sixty-two died, who were between the tenth and twentieth year; and thirteen died of those between their twentieth and eightieth years. The above statement corresponds with general observation, inflammation being more apt to succeed the operation in the meridian of life. Children of two or three years of age are not fit subjects for lithotomy; the constitution at that tender period being very irritable, convulsions often ensue, which carry off* the little patient. If the constitution be broken, or if the patient has labour- ed for some time under the stone, as by it the coats of the bladder are thrown into a morbid state, the operation is ge- nerally unfortunate. If there be reason to suspect the kid- ney to be diseased, as is shewn by pain in the loins, and by blood or pus being discharged along with the urine, or if the prostate gland be diseased, it is dangerous to operate. A deranged state of the functions of the alimentary canal is unfavourable to the operation of lithotomy: in these cir- cumstances a good deal of air is generated, by which the rec- tum becomes much distended, and very liable to be wounded during the performance of the operation. The posture of the patient during the operation merits the particular attention of the surgeon. If the surface of the table on which the body is placed, slopes downwards, a portion of the smaller intestines slips into the pelvis, and presses downwards the bladder of urine. In France, we are told by Mr Sharp *, “ their bodies are • See Critical Enquiry, 4th edition, p. 216.