ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 454- same cavern; enters the interior part of the tympanum, and is inserted into the posterior part of the head of the stapes. By this muscle, the stapes is drawn obliquely upwards, by which the posterior part of its base is moved inwards, and the anterior part outwards. The air within the tympanum increases the force of the sound; to which the tension of the membrane of the drum and of the chain of small bones essentially contributes. The vibrations of sound are thus communicated from the mem- brane of the drum to the membranes of the round and oval apertures, and the tension of the chain of bones is probably adapted to the kind of sound. I am much indebted to Mr Corse, for an opportunity he gave me of examining the structure of the ear of the elephant. Upon his return from India, twenty-four years ago, he pre- sented me with two skulls of that animal. I found, that the cavity of the tympanum is proportionally much larger than in man. According to Sir E. Home, the chain of bones is of greater extent, but the semicircular canals are proportionally smaller, though the cochlea be larger. The cavity of the tympanum of the elephant communicates with larger cells, which are placed in the upper and back part of the head, between the tables of the skull: and these, by ad- ding to the intensity of the sound, render the sense of hearing very acute. The cavity called Vestible, with which the semicircular ca- nals and cochlea communicate, is placed deeper in the pars petrosa of the temporal bone, than the cavity of the tympa- num, and between the semicircular canals and cochlea. In the recent body, there is no communication between the cavity of the tympanum and cavity of the vestible; the oval aperture, which is placed above the promontory in the cavity of the tympanum, being closed by means of a membrane. The form of the vestible is irregular; it is somewhat rounded, and divided by a ridge into two compartments. The vestible is lined by a very thin periosteum ; and it con- tains a sac, which is filled by a gelatinous fluid, upon which