356 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. In some brains the convolutions are large, but in other3 smaller and more numerous. The convolutions of the human brain are larger and more distinct than in the inferior ani- mals. But when a considerable quantity of water has been col- lected within the head, the surface of the brain is uniform; it looks like a bag of water, and, on cutting through this bag, the parietes are found to be composed of the brown and white substance of the brain, disposed in a horizontal direction in respect to each other; a proof of the extension of the brain. The under surface of the brain is much more irregular than the upper one. The brain, when divided, is found to be neither uniform as to colour nor consistence. It is composed of two substances very different in colour, consistence, extent, and sensibility, and the boundaries between these different substances are well defined. The outer, or grey part, as it is commonly called, is some- what of a light-brown or purple colour in the very recent brain, semitransparent, gelatinous, soft, and very vascular; it is softer than the white part; and, when dried, it assumes somewhat of a horny appearance. When examined by the microscope, it is found to consist chiefly of bloodvessels. Albinus, and also Simmering, have proved, that, besides the bloodvessels, there is another substance in the cortical part, which is probably secreted by the bloodvessels; but whether we are to join Malpighi in considering it to be glandular is to me very doubtful. My Father has proved, that the cortical part always ac- companies the white part, and probably forms it. Teide- mann has lately endeavoured to controvert this opinion, by stating, that the white part in the foetus, is formed before the grey part. Within the grey substance there is an opaque, more firm, and white substance; and upon this substance, there are se- veral large patches of such a yellow colour as ochre would give,, and also some parts evidently of a silvery grey hue. When the white matter of the brain has been dried it loses