149 OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. the bladder, which is not unlike to the falciform ligament of the liver, in point of form. Between the layers of this ante- rior ligament, there are distinct muscular fibres. The base of this anterior ligament is towards the neck of the bladder. It then covers the prostate gland; is con- nected, by its apex, with the under and inner part of the symphysis pubis, and is continued forwards, to be fixed to the posterior part of the triangular ligament of the urethra. On each side of the anterior ligament, there is a thimble-like cavity, capable of admitting the point of the little finger, through which the veins which return the blood from the pe- nis pass. 4:tk, The peritonaeum, reflected from each side of the blad- der, forms the lateral ligaments of that bowel. Of the Bladder of the Adidt Male, when distended. In order to form an accurate opinion of the figure of the bladder, it is necessary to fix the attention, first, upon its an- terior, and then upon its posterior, and, lastly, upon its late- ral portions. Upon the bladder being distended, that part of the body of it which lies upon the rectum, in the first place, changes its figure ; the fundus ascends towards the umbilicus; the blad- der almost fills the cavity of the pelvis ; the anterior part of it presses upon the ossa pubis ; the lateral portions are round- ed, and the posterior presses upon the rectum. In consequence of farther distention, the bladder ascends above the ossa pubis, inclining forwards over these bones. The inferior part of the bladder becomes broader; so that the distance from side to side is greater than from the fore to the back part: it also extends backwards, pushing the rectum before it, and the smaller intestines upwards and backwards. If the rectum be filled by faeces, that impedes the disten- tion of the bladder to a certain degree. During the time the bladder is distended, the surgeon should particularly notice the situation of the orifice of the urethra, which docs not take its rise from the lowest part of