OF THE IRIS OR MOVEABLE CURTAIN. 409 In some animals, we frequently observe a difference of col- our in different parts of the same eye. The iris of the albino is generally of a pale red or purple hue. The iris or moveable curtain is placed behind the cornea, and is calculated to prevent too much light from reaching the* bottom of the eye. The iris of the Negro is black, and not readily distinguish- ed from the pupil. When the iris is in a state of inflamma- tion it loses its natural brilliancy, and has a puckered ap- pearance. According to the late Mr Saunders, the inflammation of O . 1 the iris is accompanied by diffused vascularity of the tunica .conjunctiva, and the fine vessels of the iris are injected with blood. When the disease has made further progress, the .edge of the pupil is thickened, it is immovable, and it has not its circular appearance. In the centre of the iris there is an aperture called the pu- pil; the size of which varies according to the degree of light ■.to which the eye is exposed. The iris prevents those rays of light from entering the eye, which do not enter it nearly in the direction of its axis. On the posterior part of the iris, there is a dark-coloured mucous matter, which may be readily washed off, and which was called by the older authors uvea, from its supposed re- semblance to a black grape in colour. Dr Jacob describes a transparent membrane, which is closely attached to the margin of the pupil, from whence it is continued over the back of the iris, and anterior extremities of the ciliary process, to the circumference of the lens. This membrane may be turned down by the point of a needle, as it is loosely connected with the iris, in the interstices of which the black paint is deposited. When the paint has been washed off, two sets of fibres come into view : one set is concentric around the pupil; the other set issues from the pupil, as from a centre, to the cir- cumference of the iris. The iris, according to my Father, is a muscular organ.