30 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. When we look from the ventricles into the mouths of the pulmonary artery and aorta, the former seems circular, the lat- ter triangular. The muscular fibres of the external stratum of the au- ricles, which are considerably thicker in the left than in the right auricle, describe segments of large circles, excepting where the auricles are, as it were, let into the ventricles: in these situations the fibres are circular. Some of the muscular fibres of the auricles are evidently continuous with each other, but they are not so with those of the ventricles, for after boiling the heart for three or four hours, the auricles may be lifted up from the ventricles, with- out the laceration of any muscular fibres. The auricles and ventricles are alternately contracted and dilated. After the ventricles have contracted, these cavities are dilated, and ready to receive the blood from the auricles. If the finger be applied to the heart of a living animal du- ring its dilatation, it is evident that the muscular fibres are di- lated with force. The contractions and dilatations of the heart succeed each other quickly. According to Keii.jl each ventricle will con- tain an ounce of blood. The heart contracts 4000 times in an hour ; from which it follows, that there pass through the heart every hour 4000 thousand ounces, or 350 pounds of blood. Borelli, Iveil, and Hales have endeavoured to estimate the force of the heart. The latter author made his experi- ments, by fixing a tube into the carotid arteries of living ani- mals, and observing to what height the blood was projected from the tube ; but all that can be ascertained by such experi- ments is, that the heart is a very powerful muscle. It is quite impossible to arrive at greater accuracy, until the resistance to which the attraction of the blood to the sides of the vessels,— the comparative quantity of blood in the arteries and veins,— the effect of the conical shape, anastomoses, and angles of the arteries,—the exact quantity of blood discharged at each contraction of the heart, and the effect of the sum of the area