OF THE OllGANS OF THE SENSES. 387 a peculiar structure is appropriated, which is susceptible of particular impressions, and excludes the agency of all others. The most extended of all the senses is that of feeling, which is common to all animals, and which resides in the extremities of the nerves of the skin. These are guarded and overspread by an insensible substance called cuticle, and in the different . animals by other insensible teguments, as shells, hair, &c. The other senses are modifications of the sense of touch, and may be considered as finer kinds of feeling. The nerves proper to the organs of the senses, are of a very peculiar struc- ture, by which they are rendered more fit for receiving various impressions. As the nerves which convey impressions, differ •somewhat in consistence and in structure, it has been sup- posed owing to that cause, that we possess different degrees of sensibility, and different kinds of feeling. Thus, the sense of heat, or cold, or itching, is felt only in the skin; griping in the intestines, hunger and thirst are felt in the mouth and • stomach; a sense of lassitude or weariness in the muscles, and a peculiar deep-seated and aching sensation in the bone. As every kind of sensibility is dependent on the nerves, it follows, :that the extremities of the nerves, which are distributed on the organ, are the most sensible part of these, and most sus- ceptible of receiving those impressions which they are pecu- liarly adapted to receive, and to communicate to the brain. The organs of the senses possess the sense of feeling, as well as the faculties of receiving and transmitting their pecu- liar impressions to the brain. Thus, a person’s eye, though from disease it may be of no use, is still susceptible of the in- fluence of heat and cold. The same'applies to the other senses. SECTION I. OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN NOSE. The nose is formed of hard and soft parts; and it has been divided by anatomists into the radix or upper part; dorsum or middle prominence ; and the apex or point. u b 2