OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. 151 When the bladder is empty, it falls into folds, which are disposed irregularly ; for the inner coat possesses little con- tractility. In that state, it is difficult to grasp the stone which may be lodged within it; and, on the other hand, the coats may be injured by the forceps. Dr Camper has justly observed, “ Peritonaeum aliquando laxe hserit inter basin seu verum fundum vesicas, ac in- testinum rectum, contractione abdominis magis deorsum in- ter vesicam et rectum compellitur; unde contmgere potest, ut sectione imprudenter facta peritonaeum ledatur, vel forcipe prehendatur, lacereturque.” And, besides, if the operation shall be performed when the bladder is empty, there is much risk of wounding its coats, in two or three different places, when the gorget or knife is introduced. The internal surface of the bladder is smooth when that organ is distended, and besmeared by mucus, the source of which is not evident, even when, from the irritation of a stone, or other disease of the bladder, an extraordinary quantity of mucus is secreted : hence it seems probable, that the mucus is secreted by the arteries, and distributed upon the inner sur- face of the bladder. The lower part of the inner surface of the bladder has been called Trigone. It is rather whiter than the rest of the bladder, and bounded before by the urethra, and lateral- ly by the openings of the ureters. Mr Lieutaud affirms * that he discovered this projection ; but, according to Girar- di f, the publisher of Santorini’s 17 engravings, that distin- guished anatomist discovered what LiEUTAtrn has called the Trigone of the Bladder. The neck of the bladder possesses a considerable degree of extensibility, especially if the extension be made slowly ; hence urinary concretions, of a very considerable size, have • Vide Histoire et Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. dcs Scien. Paris, 1753; and his Essats Anat. Paris, 1753. + Vide his Explanation of Plate XV., which is well worthy of the per- usal of the reader, as containing some excellent remarks on the diseased state of the Trigone.