OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE NERVES. 337 he has published a case supplied to him by Mr Earle, in which indigestion, occasioned by a disease of the spinal cord, was removed bv galvanism ; and, in the Philosophical Trans- actions for 1822, the same author has published two positions, relative to the influence of the voltaic battery, in obviating the effects of the division of the eighth pair of nerves : “ lstf, That the nervous energy or power is not entirely interrupted or cut off, when a nerve is divided, provided the divided ends be not forcibly and extensively separated from each other; 2d, That electricity is capable, under certain circumstances, of causing the extremity of the divided nerve to maintain the most essential of those functions which it enjoyed in an undi- vided state The nerves have been supposed, by Gai.en and Haller, to be hollow tubes, through which a subtile fluid passes from the brain to the muscles for the purpose of voluntary motion, and from the sentient extremities to the brain for sensation ; but this opinion rests upon an unstable foundation, for there is no evidence whatever of the nerves being hollow. The solidity of the nerves is admitted by all modern anatomists. The nerves have been supposed to be the source from which the body is nourished-, l,tf, Because it has been stated, that the brain exists before the heart; 2d, Because emaciation is the concomitant of palsy, owing, it is supposed, to a want of nourishment conveyed through the nerves. Haller, who has traced the evolution of the foetus, makes mention of the size of the brain of the chick in ovo, soon af- ter incubation has been begun. After thirty hours the brain is seen ; and, on the eighth day of incubation, the brain does not appear opaque, white in its medullary part, and cortical without, but it is clear like water: as soon as the head is seen the chest appears; therefore, the heart is visible as soon as the brain. At the end of the second day, the heart appears large, and not sooner, because it was transparent. * Upon this head, the reader would do well to read the observations of my colleague Dr Alison, in the Quarterly Journal of Science, vol. ix. p. 120. VOL. II. Y