ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 228 The anterior layer of the broad ligament is inserted into the sides of the pelvis, which is thereby divided into an anterior and posterior chamber, and is then continued to the side of the bladder. In the anterior chamber, the bladder of urine is lodged ; in the posterior, the intestinum curvum; and the posterior layer of the broad ligament is continued to the in- testinum rectum. The broad ligament is subdivided into an anterior and pos- terior part; in the former of which the Fallopian tubes are lodged ; in the latter, the ovaria, and their ligaments. Ow- ing to relaxation and weakness of the parts with which the uterus is connected, it sometimes falls lower down than usual into the vagina, or even between the labia pudendi, constituting the disease called Prolapsus Uteri. The fundus uteri is sometimes turned backwards and down- wards upon its neck, between the vagina and rectum, and its mouth is directed forwards. This has been called Retrover- sion of the Womb. Levret has described the antiversion of the womb in this state: the fundus is thrown forwards, and the mouth is direct- ed to the sacrum ; and thus the neck of the bladder is com- pressed. The uterus is also occasionally turned inside out. It falls through the os tincae, and protrudes externally. In this case the vagina is also inverted, and forms a neck for the tumour, which has somewhat of a pyriform shape. In this lateral view, the vagina is seen in its situation be- tween the rectum and bladder, to the under surface of which it is connected by cellular substance. It forms a crooked ca- nal, which is very nearly in the axis of the outlet and cavity of the pelvis; and the plexus of veins which covers the front of the vagina is also conspicuous. When the vagina has been opened, it is found to be some- what flattened: it is wider above than below, and it is fixed to the os tinea; higher behind than before : hence the back- part of the womb is more evident to the touch than the an- terior.