230 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. There was a distinct groove on the upper surface of the glans, along which I passed a female catheter into the blad- der. The neck of the bladder opposed but a slight resistance to the passage of the instrument; and there was a fissure be- tween the testes. In the class Mammalia, the semen is introduced, by the penis of the male, into the vagina during copulation ; thus the ovaiilre impregnated within the body of the female; and the foetus is not discharged until it is capable of an independent existence. The ovarium is the most essential part of the female or- gans to- generation ; from it the rudiment of the foetus is de- rived. This is obvious, from the difference in the structure of the Ovarium of a virgin, and that of a woman who has had chil- dren ; and from the effects upon the female constitution, re- sulting from the extirpation of the ovaria. Menstruation ceases, the mammae become less prominent, the muscles become larger, and more like those of the male. The whole form of the body is altered, and becomes somewhat like to that of a man *. The uterine tubes, from their peculiar form, situation and structure, are well calculated for giving passage to the con- tents of the ovarium, and for conveying these into the womb; and the obstruction of these tubes leads to barrenness. The testes form the most important parts of the male or- gans; they secrete the semen, which is probably propelled, through its circuitous rout, by a muscular power, (though the muscular fibres of these ducts are so small as to escape our unassisted sight); it is carried to the vesiculas seminales, with- in which it is collected, till it is required. There are various causes which destroy the power of pro- creation on the part of the female ; the unnatural size of the labia externa, clitoi'is, or nymphae, the induration of the hy- men, so that it remains entire; diseases of the uterus, ovaria, • Vide case by Mr P. Pott, and also by Mr Pears, Phil. Trans, for 1805: a woman was born without ovaria; this person was broad-shouldered like a man, she never menstruated; and there were no signs of puberty. 3