ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 112 1 his disease is not limited to a part of a peculiar structure. In a most remarkable instance of this disease which occur- red to my colleague Dr Home, who was so polite as to send the morbid parts to the Musfeum of the University, for my ex- amination, the bones, cellular membranes, fattv substance of the omentum, the muscles, the serous membranes of the bowels of the thorax and abdomen, and the internal parts of these, had more or less of the black colour. 1 he organs of generation are not exempted from the same disease. Dr Alisox sent to me the ovaria which are much enlarged and studded over by small black coloured tumours, and when divided they were found to consist of cysts filled by a blade fluid *. Within these few months I saw an old wo- man, who has a number of black coloured tumours on different parts of the surface of her body, and who probably labours under the same disease internally. Tab. IV. fig. 1, 2, 3, represent the ultimate branches of the trachea filled with wax, and fig. 4, 5, represent the same magnified to about eight diameters. The object of fig. 6 is to represent the mucous glands A A, in the back-part of the windpipe, and the small mucous glands disposed in rows upon the inner membrane, and which are seen after having thrown a penetrating injection into the bronchial arteries, and after raising up the cartilages of the windpipe marked B B B. Fig. 7 gives a back view of the larynx. A A The thyroid cartilage. B The epiglottis. C C The broader and posterior part of the cricoid cartilage. D is placed on one of the ary- tenoid cartilages. E a small ligament passing between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Tab. V. fig 1. and 2. represent the lobules and cells of the luno's of an adult of their natural size, filled with wax. Fig. 3. and 5. represent the cells, viewed with a glass that nearly doubles their diameter. Fig. 6, 7 and 8, represent the cells of their natural size, cut after inflating and drying them. • Vide a valuable paper on Melanosis by Messrs Cullen and Carsewell, Medieo-Chir. Trans, of Edin., vol. i.