502 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. After the sympathetic nerve has emerged from the carotid canal, it receives branches from the first, second, and third cervical nerves; and it is joined with the eighth and ninth pairs of nerves. After this union of nerves, the sympathetic nerves swell out into a large ganglion, opposite to the second vertebra of the neck. This ganglion is somew'hat like to an olive in form, and hence called Olivary. It has been particularly de- scribed and represented by my Father, in Plate 21. of his Nervous System. This ganglion varies in size, in different individuals, and sometimes, according to Lobstein, it is double. This gan- glion is connected with the root of the sub-occipital nerve, and there are small filaments which descend from it behind the internal carotid artery. There are branches which, uniting with nerves from the superior laryngeal, form the superficial nerves of the heart. Branches from the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves pass downwards, behind the scaleni muscles, to this ganglion ; and there are nerves from this ganglion which are united to the recurrent branch of the eighth pair. Other branches from this ganglion pass behind the subcla- vian artery, and join with the inferior cervical and uppermost ganglion of the thorax. The trunk of the sympathetic nerve, which is much con- tracted, and almost round, descends behind the carotid arte- ry and the eighth pair of nerves, along the longus colli muscle, becoming gradually smaller, though it receives several branches from the 8th pair, and from the 5th and 6th cervical nerves. Where the thyroid artery passes to the thyroid gland; or up- on the fifth and sixth cervical vertebra, the middle ganglion of this nerve is placed ; and there are some instances in which this ganglion is awanting. From this ganglion branches are sent to the heart, which anastomose with branches of the re- current, from which a plexus of nerves is sent to the aorta, to the pericardium and to the heart, and these accompany the coronary artery to the point of the heart.