oGl OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. N n VOL. II. which preserved the communication between the thigh and the trunk. These two vessels were dissected with the great- est care, that is to say, they were isolated to the extent of 15‘75 inches; their cellular tunic was taken away, to prevent the concealment of the lymphatic vessels. Two grains of a very subtle poison (the Upas tiente) were then thrust into the foot: the effects of this poison were as rapid and as intense as if the thigh had not been separated from the body ; they began before the fouith minute, and the.animal was dead before the tenth. “ It might be objected, that, notwithstanding all the precau- tions taken, the sides of the artery and the crural vein still contained lymphatics, and that these vessels afforded a pas- sage to the poison. To remove this difficulty, I repeated the preceding experiment upon another dog, with this difference, that I introduced into the crural artery the tube of a small quill, upon which I bound this vessel by two ligatures: the artery was afterwards divided circularly between the two liga- tures, and the same thing was done with the crural vein; there was then no communication between the thigh and the body, except by the arterial blood that arrived at the thigh, and the venous blood returning to the trunk. The poison being then introduced into the foot, produced the ordinary effects, that is, death in about four minutes The first point to be considered is, as to the channel through which, in the above experiments, the blood passed into the lymphatic vessels. Was the blood effused in consequence of the inflammation, absorbed by the lymphatic vessels ? If this supposition be admitted, the lymphatic vessels are absorbents. That the red globules are occasionally ab- sorbed is beyond doubt; as when, in consequence of an in- jury, blood is effused beneath the skin, the redness goes off, and the yellow colour of the serum remains after the red is • Majendie’s Physiol, translated by Dr Milligan. Dr Mason Good, in Volume iv. p. 233. of his book on the Study of Medicine, has given some judi- cious observations upon this experiment.