40 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. T.he heart was considerably enlarged, and t wards its apex there was a thin layer of coagulable lymph ; and also over the anteiioi auricle. Upon opening both auricles, they were found to form one sac, which measured in its transverse dia- meter six inches. 1 here was no vestige of a partition between the auricles, excepting at the lower part. The passage of communication between the auricles was nearly circular, and about three inches in diameter. The sinus of the anterior auricle was rather thinner than usual; but the auricular portion was twice as thick as usual; and the musculi pectinati were very distinct. The inner mem- brane of the auricle had a pale crimson colour. The Eustachian valve was larger than usual, and its cor- nua were proportionally elongated. The coronary vein was considerably enlarged. The passage of communication between the right auricle and right ventricle, was about two inches in diameter. The membrane of the anterior and posterior portion of the tricuspid valve, was thickened irregularly, but not considerably. The anterior ventricle was larger than usual, by nearly a half; and the thickness of its parietes was equal to that of the pa- rietes of the posterior ventricle in its sound state. The co- lumns carneae were also enlarged. There was a considerable ossification of the valves at the mouth of the pulmonary artery., so that there was merely an aperture between them, about half an inch in diameter. The sinus of the left auricle was thinner than common ; the auricular portion had the usual form, but was considerably extended, and equally so in all its dimensions. About ten ounces of a yellow coloured fluid were found within the peri- cardium, with shreds of coagulable lymph passing through it. It may be proper to add, that this person, before death, had an irregular and very feeble pulse, but none of the other symptoms of imperfect oxidation oj the blood, owing, probably, to the simultaneous contraction of both of the auricles. In some instances, the aorta has taken its rise from the riffht as well as from the left ventricle. I have a specimen, in which the foramen ovale, and also