elements of ANATOMY. 106 guments of the right side of the chest of a dog, the trochar was passed through the intercostal muscles into the pleura. The stilette was immediately drawn from the canula into the bladder, and the air of the bladder instantly rushed into the pleura, and, on expiration, was in part forced back into the bladder. The exact quantity of air retained was not de- termined ; it must have exceeded at least ten cubic inchei. As speedily as possible the canula was withdrawn, and the external wound carefully closed by suture. The health of the dog was very little impaired by this operation. Two days after, when the animal appeared to be quite well, a similar experiment was made on the left side of the chest, and a mix- ture, consisting of seventy-five parts common air and twenty- five carbonic acid gas, was introduced into the pleura. (f The power exhibited by the pleura in the preceding in- stances of absorbing gasses, and the manner in which it exer- cised that power, in a greater degree, on one air than on ano- ther, and that in no ratio to their solubility in water, ap- peared to me so interesting and novel, that I was induced to prosecute the subject a little farther. With the same appa- ratus, I made similar experiments on the admission of three other gases into the pleura of dogs, viz. hydrogen, nitrous oxide, and nitrous gas. “ The obvious results of these two experiments on the same dog, are, 1st, The absorption of the greater part of the car- bonic acid gas, and the whole of the hydrogen introduced into the pleura, and the appearance, de novo, of a consider- able quantity of azote: 2c%, The death of the animal in the 6pace of five hours from the time of admission of the nitrous gas and azote into the opposite pleura, the absorption of the greater part of the former gas without inflammation of the membrane with which it was immediately in contact, and the production of a peculiar change in the blood. From what has been stated it follows, 1st, That the blood, in passing through the lungs, undergoes a most remarkable change in its properties, or is changed from venous into arte- rial blood.