385 OF THE BRAIN OF THE FCETUS. 3J, The falx and tentorium cerebello-superextensum being connected to the angles of the sinuses, prevent the opposite sides of the sinuses from being pressed nearer to each other, or their cavities from being much diminished by the weight of the parts of the brain and cerebellum in different postures, either by an increased impulse of the blood in the arteries, or bv water accumulated in the ventricles of the brain, or on its -surface. I subjoin a very brief account of the peculiarities of the brain of the foetus, from Tiedemann’s valuable book on that .curious subject. “ 1. In the commencement of pregnancy, especially about the second month, the earliest period at which the brain can be rendered perceptible by the action of alcohol, this organ is very small, in proportion to the spinal marrow. In fact, it results from the prolongation upward and forwards, of the two principal cords, the olivary and pyramidal. All its supe- irior part is open; or, more properly speaking, forms a broad : gutter, which at once comprehends the third ventricle, the aquaeductus Sylvii, the fourth ventricle, and calamus scripto- :rius. This gutter is uninterruptedly continuous with the ca- nal which traverses the whole length of the spinal marrow. “ 2. The cerebellum evidently originates from the spinal marrow, from the lateral parts of which arises on each side a small flattened cord. These two, at first so distinct and sepa- rate that they may be readily parted without laceration, after- wards unite so as to form the roof of the fourth ventricle ; then the brain, viewed from above, ceases to represent a gut- ter ; and the laminae and branches of the cerebellum are formed at a much later period. “ 3. The mass which supports the tubercula quadrigemina equally shews itself in its origin under the form of two thin membranes, which arise from the olivary cords of the spinal marrow, and which, when they cease to be distinct, represent a vault covering a large ventricle, whose successive contraction gives rise to the aquaeductus Sylvii. ‘4. I he pyramidal cords of the spinal marrow, which take a direction from below upward, and from behind forward, after vot.. ir. i, l,