ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 182 ,da transvershn dissecuerimus, deinde mercurium vi insigni in \as deferens adegerimus, per unicum tantum epidydimidis sectae orificium prosilire. Quse quidem experimenta extra du- bitationem clare cvincunt, totam epidydimida, praeter caput, unico funiculo miris mod is flexo constare, dum in quibusdam animalibus, ut postea patebit, organorum tenuitas aut structu- rae perplexitas nullum aliud hujus rei veritatis argumentum perspicuum admittunt. Ex illo autem tempore, epidydimida mercurio turgidam, variis in partibus, in vas unicum subtile smpius resolvi, ne quidem mercurii guttula effluente.” From the above, it follows, that the couVse of the semen might be interrupted by a wound or puncture of the seminal tube composing the epidydimis. My Father met with a case in which the epidydimis suppurated, and the semen was dis- charged by the wound for several months. My Father also endeavoured to determine how much of the epidydimis is formed of the vascular cones, by fil- ling it with quicksilver, and carefully dissecting it, so that none of the quicksilver should run out. Pie found that about one-third of it is formed by vascular cones, which gradually unite into a single tube. The epidydimis is, in some very rare instances, divided in- to two branches. There is sometimes a small seminal tube two or three inches long, which has a blind end leading out from the epidydimis, and this tube sometimes follows a tortuous course. From the epidydimis, the semen is conveyed through the vas deferens to the vesiculas seminales. These small tubes take their origins from the inferior and posterior parts of the epidydimis, and continue their route along the back part of the spermatic chord. The vas deferens is internally very small in proportion to its outward size, the coats being of considerable thickness and hardness; so that, when pressed between the fingers, the tube feels like a piece of whip-cord. The vasa deferentia ascend through the under abdominal apertures, to the upper abdominal apertures, where they are detached from the spermatic chords, and pass downwards