575 OE THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. The axillary glands vary in size and number in different individuals; they are smaller than the inguinal glands, and they are imbedded in a considerable quantity of fat. From the axillary glands, large lymphatic vessels pass be- neath the subclavian muscle, and, by their union, form a trunk, which, on the left side of the body, leads to the thoracic duct near to its termination in the angle formed by the internal ju- gular and subclavian veins. On the right side of the body, the trunk formed by the lymphatic vessels of the superior extremity, joins with the large lymphatic trunk, called the Trunk of Stexo. Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Inferior Extremities. There are two sets of Lymphatic Vessels proper to the In- ferior Extremities, the superficial and deeper seated set; the former accompany the superficial veins, and are imbedded be- tween the skin and muscles; the latter, which are by no means so numerous as the former, accompany the arteries. The lymphatic vessels are larger, and more abundant on the inner, than on the outer, side of the thigh and leg ; hence surgeons recommend mercury to be rubbed on the inner side of the thigh. Mascagni has represented a much greater number of lym- phatic vessels on the outer side of the thigh, than I have ever seen. It may be also observed respecting the lymphatic vessels of the inferior extremities, that, in their progress to the under cluster of inguinal glands, they become somewhat larger, and very frequently and freely communicate with each other. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the under part of the abdomen, and those of the loins, enter the inguinal glands; and some of the lymphatic vessels of the nates pass into the glands of the groin ; but the greater number pass into the pelvis, along the gluteal and sciatic bloodvessels. The greater number of these inguinal glands, is placed over the tendinous fascia of the thigh ; a few of them lie un- der it. The inguinal glands arc not of the same size in all indivi-