345 CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF THE BBAIN. Chemical Analysis of the Brain. Since my Outlines were published, chemical analyses have been made of the brain and nerves, by Vauquelin, The- naied, and Dr John, of which the following is the result, as stated by Dr T. Thomson. 1. Vauquelin some time ago, published an analysis of the brain of animals, from which he concluded, that phos- phorus was one of its constituents. This induced Professor John to undertake a sort of experiments upon the brain, nerves, and spinal marrow of calves. (Schweigger’s Journal, vol. x. p. 155.) These experiments induced him to conclude, that phosphorus is not a constituent of the brain ; but that it exists in that substance in the state of phosphate of ammonia. Dr Thomson states, that these experiments do not appear quite conclusive. The subject is perhaps too delicate to be determined by chemical analysis in its present state. He employed always brain extracted from the animal im- mediately after death, and quite warm. The liquid portion of the brain assumed a liver colour when heated. It consisted' of albumen, water, and traces of vari- ous salts. The solid matter of the brain produces no change in the colour of litmus paper, even when exposed to the air for days. John supposes, that if it contained phosphorus, phosphoric acid would be formed by such exposure. When heated, it gave out the odour of moat; but no fat separated. When all the liquid portion was evaporated, the matter be- came brown, and at last melted, and was charred. The sil- ver vessel in which the experiment was made, assumed a black colour, indicating the presence of sulphur. The water with which the charry matter was washed, reddened litmus paper. When the water v/as evaporated, the residuum, treated with potash, yielded ammonia: this residuum being dissolved in water, left a small portion of a substance, which possessed the properties of silica. From the solution, ammonia precipitated phosphate of lime. Left to spontaneous evaporation, it yield- ed crystals of sulphate of potash, common salt, and phosphate of magnesia. The free acid present was the phosphoric. The 3