OF THE RADIAL OR MEDIAN NERVE. 517 In the palm of the hand, I have seen a branch of the nerve form a communication between the radial and ulnar nerves. Mr Swan states, that he has traced the branches of the ra- dial nerve into the tendons on the back of the hand, and “ that filaments from the digital nerves creep into the thecae, and enter the tendons.” "ith, The ulnar nerve has been also called the cubital, by Haller and Winslow, and by Albinus, in his edition of the engravings of eustachius quartus brachialium. It is derived chiefly from the last cervical and first dorsal nerve. This lai'ge nerve passes along the triceps muscle ; along with the arteria profunda minor, and is at no great distance from the skin ; and at the elbow, occupies the groove between the inner condyle of the os humeri and olecranon ulnae. i The nerve then passes through the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and follows the same course as that ulnar artery along the fore-arm, and to the inner side of the pisiform bone at the wrist, and between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digi- torum sublimis. Near to the lower end of the ulna, it becomes subcutane- ous. There are two or three small branches sent off from it, which pass to the back of the hand, between the ulna and the flexor carpi ulnaris; from which there are various small nerves, which supply the wrist, and which join with the branches of the spiral nerve on the back of the hand, and which sends a branch to the little finger, and also to the ring and middle fingers. , There is another considerable branch sent off from the nerve, before it passes into the palm of the hand, which runs along the ulnar side of the little finger, and is subdivided into two branches; one of which runs on the side of the little finger, and the other on the side of the ring-finger, next the little finger. O The trunk of the ulnar nerve passes over the annular liga- ment of the wrist along with, and on the inner side of, the ul- nar artery : it passes beneath the tendinous aponeurosis of the palm of the hand, and having reached the palm of the hand,