OF THE VESIOULiE SEMINALES. 183 and backwards across the psoae muscles, and are fixed, by cellular substance, to the sides of the bladder, descending obliquely from without inwards : they pass behind the umbi- lical arteries ; and cross the ureters, near to the lower part of the bladder, at which place they are firmly connected by short threads of cellular substance to the intestinum rectum. The vas deferens, in its progress downwards and towards the under and back part of the bladder of urine, gradually becomes larger. The vasa deferentia are placed between the vesicula? seminalcs, and are at length united to them very near to the base of the prostate gland, where they are con- nected to the rectum by cellular substance, and hence may be injured when the bladder is punctured from the rectum. The vasa deferentia, on approaching the vesiculae seminales, follow a tortuous course, and assume somewhat of a spongy appearance : they pass behind the vesiculae seminales, and join with the vesiculae, very near to their termination, at an acute angle ; and, before the vasa deferentia enter the vesicu- lae seminales, they are considerably contracted. The smaller extremities of the vasa deferentia are united laterally to the anterior and smaller extremities of the vesicu- Iee seminales: the membrane which is placed between the vasa deferentia, is thin and moveable; and, when pressed backwards, prevents the reflux of the semen into the vasa de- ferentia. Any fluid readily passes from the vasa deferentia into the vesiculae seminales; and their contents, which are of a yellow- ish colour, are found to be similar, in all respects, to those of the vesiculae seminales. The ducts common to the vesiculae seminales and vasa de- ferentia, are about an inch and a half long, of a tapering form, and pass into the urethra after having perforated the prostate gland. The orifices of these ducts may be observed on the opposite sides of that body, which is placed in the under portion of that part of the urethra called Cajput Gal- linaginis, from its supposed resemblance to the beak of a wood-cock. Around these orifices of the ducts common to the