475 OF THE CUTICLE. does not give pain, as it is insensible; but though devoid of sensibility, it cannot be said to be a dead substance. The vi- tal power of the cuticle is not great, but we know that it is constantly renewed when abraded, and the renewal may be accelerated by the application of different substances. The cuticle of the Negro and European is nearly of the same colour, and it is almost transparent; so that the colour of the subjacent part shines through it. Mr Chevalier* informs us, that upon examining the in- ner side of the cuticle by a microscope, magnifying 140 times, he observed an infinite number of minute velamina, regulai'ly arranged, of exquisite tenuity, presenting a follicular appear- ance, and separated from each other by bands of a thicker substance, crossing and intersecting them; The cuticle takes an exact impression of the folds and ri- sings of the true skin ; and hence is disposed in lines, in many parts of the body. There are different kinds of wrinkles on the surface of the cuticle. One kind is occasioned by the contraction of the muscles under the skin, as those of the fore-head, and the outer angles of the eyes, or around the mouth ; the former of which is occasioned by the orbicularis oculi; the latter by the sphincter oris. There are broad furrows or wrinkles on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and at the joints of the fingers; oc- casioned by the movements of the fingers and1 thumbs : these are distinct when the fingers are extended', and are owing to the skin being looser over these parts. There are wrinkles in the countenance of the aged, owing to the absorption of the fat; for in them the skin does not contract, so as to ac- commodate itself to the subjacent parts; The cuticle is of various degrees of thickness in different parts of the body; and it may be said to be the regulator of the degree of sensibility. The degree of perfection of the sense of touch depends up- on the cuticle: where it is thin, as upon the lips, glam penis, Lectures on the Anatomy and Functions of the Skin, p. 133.