16 El-EMENTS OF ANATOMY. age ; or when the spinal marrow has been divided between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra, which renders the inter- costal muscles paralytic. As the action of the diaphragm depends upon the phrenic nerve, which is connected with the third and fourth cervical nerves, it follows, that an injury done to the spine above the origin of the phrenic nerve must occasion great difficulty of breathing, and, in a short time, the death of the patient. I have had occasion to meet with two instances in which death had been occasioned by an enlargement of the denti- form process of the second vertebra of the neck, and, it may be proper to add, that in one of these cases the difficulty of breathing was supposed to have originated from an inflam- mation of the lungs. The muscles of respiration are not easily fatigued, like the muscles of voluntary motion, unless when the breathing is per- formed with unusual rapidity, as during violent exercise, when the blood circulates with unusual rapidity, and must pass quickly through the lungs. In running, the breathing is occasionally interrupted. On some occasions, in consequence of violent and excessive ex- ercise, the breathing is suspended; and there are instances of sudden death in consequence of very violent exertion. It may be also observed, that many hysterical women ex- perience a sense of lassitude in the muscles of respiration, after a hysterical fit. Upon removing the intercostal muscles, the Pleui*a, a se- rous membrane, which is, in all inspects, similar to the perito- naeum, and which lines the ribs, comes into view. It seems to be opaque, and of a whitish colour; but, upon being punc- tured, which admits the air into the chest, it appears to be transparent. Before the admission of the air, the pleura lin- ing the ribs, and that forming the external covering of the lungs, are in contact; but, after the air has been admitted into the chest, the lungs collapse, and hence the ti'ansparent appearance of the pleura*. * Vide further proofs of the contiguity of the Pleura Costalis and Pleura Fulmonalis, in my Grandfather’s works, pages 6o9 and 660,