Ol" THE BLANCHES OF THE THORACIC AORTA. L2~5 arteries and veins, and anastomose with the smaller ramifica- tions of the pulmonary artery. There are scarcely two instances, in which the bronchial ar- teries take their rise from the same part of the descending aorta. The arteri.e cesoi’iiagile, are five or six in number. They take their rise from the aorta separately, or from the bron- chial arteries ; they are subdivided into very minute branches, which are spent upon the coats of the gullet, and form an in- tricate plexus upon the innermost coat of that organ. There are also branches of these arteries distributed upon the posterior mediastinum and pericardium. The superior intercostal artery is also a branch of the thoracic aorta. There are three large branches of this artery, which are lodged within the grooves of the ribs ; and the smaller branches of these arteries pass backwards to the spine, spinal marrow, and muscles of the back. The inferior or aortic intercostal arteries, which are eight or ten pairs, take their rise from the back and lateral parts of the aorta, and are situated in the grooves in the un- der edges of the ribs, between the intercostal muscles. The intercostal arteries differ as to size. The four upper- most are the smallest, and ascend. The intercostal arteries send small branches to the spine and spinal marrow, and in- tercostal muscles; and many branches pass between the ribs, and, after supplying the muscles on the fore-part of the chest, anastomose with the external mammary arteries, and also with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. Some of the small branches of the intercostal arteries are distributed on the muscles of the back. The superior and posterior pericardiac arteries, arc also derived from the descending aorta, but sometimes from the subclavian and internal mammary. These arteries are distributed upon the pericardium, lungs, and gullet. I he superior branches of the inferior intercostals anasto- mose with the superior intercostal arteries; while the inferior brandies of the inferior intercostal arteries anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. s 2