VEINS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 267 The superficial veins ofi the back of the hand go chiefly to the veins of the fore-arm, and to the radial and ulnar veins. The continuation of the ulnar veins forms what has been called the Basilic Vein, which is placed on the inner edge of the biceps muscle, and immediately over the humeral artery, the pulsations of which may be felt through the coats of the vein. The ulnar artery in some instances perforates the tendi- nous fascia of the fore-arm, and follows the same course as the basilic vein, to which it is fixed by short cellular sub- stance : and hence this large artei’y might be wounded by ail inattentive surgeon in opening the basilic vein. The superficial radial veins on the anterior part of the fore-arm communicate with the radial and ulnar veins, and with a trunk, called the mediana longa. The mediana longa crosses over the radius, and divides, generally, below the elbow, (I have seen this division take place three inches above the elbow-joint), into the mediana ce- phalica and basilica. The former terminates in the cephalic above the elbow, and the latter crosses over the humeral ar- tery, and ends in the basilic vein, which joins with the hume- ral vein. The cephalic vein runs up the arm on the outer or radial side of the biceps muscle, between that muscle and the tri- ceps ; and, passing between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, dips down, and terminates in the axillary vein. The scapular and thoracic vein unite with the axillary vein. The deeper-seated veins, named Vena Comites Satel- lites, follow the same course as the arteries; they join the more superficial, and form the Axillary Vein, which, being joined by the circumflex and thoracic veins, forms the Sub- clavian Vein: this passes between the clavicle and first rib; receives the cervical veins, and those corresponding with the superior dorsal scapulary artery; and then passes on the fore part of the anterior scalenus muscle. The subclavian vein then joins with the vertebral, internal jugular, and external jugular veins, internal mammary veins, and left superior intercostal veins.