452 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. forates the peroneus longus, and which ends in the middle of outer part of the foot. The fibular nerve also detaches deep seated branches; a branch to the peroneus longus ; a branch to the tibialis anti- cus ; to the extensor pollicis, and small nerves which adhere to the coats of the tibial artery. A branch also, which ac- companies the anterior tibial artei'y and its ramifications. The tibial nerve passes between the heads of the gas- trocnemius ; perforates the origin of the gastrocnemius in- terims ; passes between the flexor digitorum longus and the gastrocnemius, and, along with the posterior tibial artery, to the under part of the leg. The branches of this nerve supply the heads of the gas- trocnemius, the tibialis posticus, flexor digitorum, and flexor pollicis muscles : a branch of this nerve, called the communi- . cans tibia;, accompanies the vena saphaena minor. This nerve at the ancle supplies the skin. A branch of the anterior tibial nerve forms, according to Mr Swan a gan- gliform enlargement, branches of which are in contact with the synovial membranes. The tibial nerve then passes into the hollow of the os cal- cis, and divides into the external and jnteral plantar NERVES. The external plantar nerve gives branches to the heel; and, passing along the foot, along with the plantar artery, divides into three principal branches. The two first pass forwards to the fourth and fifth toes, and outer side of the left toe. The third branch forms an arch, and corresponds with the exter- nal plantar artery; gives branches to the muscles of the little toe, to the lumbricales, interossei and transversalis pedis, and terminates in the muscles of the great toe. The internal plantar nerve passes along the side of the flexor muscle of the great toe, and flexor longus muscle, and gives oft' branches to the abductor pollicis, flexor digito- rum brevis, and lumbricales muscles. This nerve afterwards sends off four large branches, which accompany the arteries; pass along the plantar sides of all the toes, excepting the little toe, and the outer side of the fourth