ELEMENTS OF ANATOMV. 142 the tuber ischii, in some instances before, and in others be- hind the origin of the erector penis. There is considerable variety as to the size of this muscle of some individuals, in the opposite sides of the body. It sometimes arises rather farther back than usual, and follows an oblique course to its insertion in the anterior part of the sphyncter ani, about half an inch behind its junction with the accelerator urinse. In these circumstances, the fibres of this muscle are ob- lique, but transverse when the muscle takes its rise nearer to the symphysis pubis. In some instances, there is on each side a smaller and narrower transversalis perinaei, which is disposed in a parallel manner to the preceding muscle, and which, when present, is called the transversalis perinaei alter. The use of this muscle is, to draw backwards and sideways the urethra, and to enlarge the bulb of that canal. In some instances no transversalis perinaei is to be found. Of the Levator Ani. The levator ani is a thin broad sheet of muscular substance* Which closes the lower part of the pelvis, supposing the body to be erect, and may be said to be the antagonist muscle to the diaphragm. To obtain a satisfactory view of the extent and precise situation of this muscle, it is required to remove one of the ossa pubis, so as to get a lateral view of the pelvis; thus, the outer surface of this muscle is in contact with the obturator internus, the transversalis perinaei and glutaeus maxim us mus- cles, and the inner surface is in contact with the prostate gland, rectum, and bladder of urine. The relation of this muscle to the rectum, prostate gland* and vesiculae seminales* is most distinctly seen, upon the thin fascia which covers it having been removed. This muscle arises from the lower and inner part of the symphysis pubis, by tendinous and fleshy fibres, fiom the spine of the ischium, and from the thin tendinous membrane which covers the obturator internus and coccygeus muscles, 3