105 OF THE ABSORPTION OF GAS. When equal parts of oxygen and azotic gases were inspired the same appearances took place, though in a less degree. The following remarks of Dr J. Davy upon the absorp- tion of gases, may probably through light on the change which the blood undergoes in passing through the lungs ; if it be admitted that air is absorbed by mucous as well as by serous membranes. 44 Atmospheric air was injected into the pleura of a dog, and the opening through the parietes of the chest closed by suture ; at the end of forty-eight hours the animal was killed. An hour after, the pleura was opened, and about eight cubic inches of air were collected, which shewed slight traces of carbonic acid gas, and consisted of ninty-three of oxygen, and seven of azotic gas, in the hun- dred.'” Dr Davy concludes from this experiment, that a greater proportion of oxygen was absorbed than of azotic gas. 44 It may be said that the experiment does not warrant the inference that any azote was absorbed, and, consequently, that the expression 44 in a greater proportion” is incorrect. The absorption of this gas is probable, however, though not demonstrated in the present instance, as Sir Astley Cooper has found that common air introduced into the cellular mem- brane, and into the cavity of the thorax and abdomen of dogs, is, after a certain time, entirely removed by absorption *. 41 Relative to the source of the carbonic acid gas, it is easy to conceive that it was formed, or emitted, in the air-cells of the lungs, as in ordinary respiration ; and that, mixing with the air inspired, it was received into the pleura. If thus de- rived, and not from the surface of the pleura by secretion, it seems to follow, that it is less readily absorbed by the pleura than oxygen. To endeavour to decide this point, the fol- lowing experiment was made. 44 About thirty cubic inches of air, consisting of eighty parts common air and twenty carbonic acid gas, were passed from a receiver into a bladder, furnished at one extremity with a stop-cock, and at the other with a small trochar; both air- tight. A small incision having been made through the inte- * Surgical and Physiological Essays by John Abernethy, p. .55. London, 1793.