ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 144 an effect in expelling the contents of the vesiculae seminales, and prostate gland, and thereby assist in generation. The levator ani, together with the sphyncter ani, prevent the prolapsus ani; the former draws up the anus, and the other is contracted around the extremity of the anus. But when the inner membrane of the rectum has been much irri- tated by ascarides within that bowel, or by a stone in the bladder, the levator ani and sphyncter ani do not oppose the prolapse of the villous coat of the rectum. Mr A. Buitxs favoured me with the history of a case of hernia of the blad- der of urine, which took place through the levator ani muscle *. Of the Erector Penis or Ischio-Cavernosits. This muscle, and its flat tendon, cover very nearly the whole of the crus penis that is in contact with the os ischium. It takes its origin from the inner surface of the tuberositv of the ischium, by fibres, some of which are fleshy, and others are tendinous. The fibres adhere to the inner side of the ascending branch of the ischium ; pass upwards and forwards, (supposing the body placed as when the lateral operation of lithotomy is performed), along the crus; and the muscle ter- minates in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the ligament- ous membrane of the corpora cavernosa, where the corpora cavernosa are united to each other. The erectores muscles are supposed, by compressing the crura penis, to be essential to the erection of the penis, by forcing the blood onwards towards the fore parts of the corpora cavernosa penis. When the penis is erected, these muscles tend to draw the crura penis downwards and towards the tubera ischii; so that it forms nearly a right angle with the body. The erection of the penis is to be im- puted, in part, to the pressure upon the veins of the penis impeding the return of blood from that organ; and, in part, to the increased determination of blood to the cells of the pe- nis, in consequence of the nerves of that organ being stimula- ted. Vide my Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines.