481 OF THE CUTIS VEltA OR TRUE SKIN. The cutis vera is a white, strong, elastic, fibrous, mem- brane, which is largely supplied by bloodvessels and nerves, and which differs much as to its thickness in different parts of the body. It is thicker in the back than in the fore part of the body, and thinner in the scrotum, penis, labia pu- dendi and breasts, and is thinner on the inner than the outer sides of our members. When the cutis vera has been well washed, it is of a white colour, and is found to be more dense on its outer than on its inner surface. The true skin is made up of small and dense white fibres, which differ as to size in different parts of the body, are very intimately interwoven with each other like those in the felt of a hat, and cross each other in every direction, so that it is impossible to trace their course: between the fibres small masses of fat are interposed, and also a quantity of cellular substance, which passes even to the outer surface of the true skin. This is made evident in cases of anasarca ; the water passes through the cellular substance of the true skin, the fibres of the skin are separated, the cuticle gives way, and the water is discharged. The skin of the extremities of the fingers and toes is dis- posed in ridges. Every part of the true skin is not equally vascular; there are more bloodvessels on the outer than on the inner surface of the skin. There are a i lumber of papilla, or small processes of different sizes, on the surface of the cutis vera, and which are most nu- merous in the more sensible parts of the body, as upon the lips, the glans penis, clitoris, and at the points of the fingers and toes, where they are placed in double rows upon the ridges. The papillae of the hands and feet are most distinct when the cuticle has been removed by maceration, or after a penetra- ting injection has been thrown into the vessels of the cutis ve- ra. On the extremities of the fingers and toes, the papillae fol- low a spiral course. vol. ii. H h