43 OF THE ARTERIES. The larger trunks of the arteries are placed between the lobes of the parts on which they are distributed, and the branches enter into its substance, as in the case of the brain, glands, and muscles. The smaller branches of the arteries are more exposed, and more convoluted in their course, than the larger branches, and more especially those distributed upon organs which undergo a rapid alteration as to their size, as those of the lips, stomach, and uterus; and, in other cases, this convoluted course is pro- bably subservient to secretion. Thus the spermatic artery follows a long and tortuous course before it reaches the body of the testicle; and this more especially in quadrupeds. It may perhaps be owing to this cause, that the artery, lodged within the under jaw, is seldom or never torn when that bone is broken. If the above arteries did not follow a tortuous course, they must have been much extended, and contracted, when the womb or lips are much extended ; whereas, by means of their tortuous course, they accommodate themselves to the exact condition of the parts they supply. It is evident that the size of the branches of an artery, taken together, exceeds that of the parent trunk. It is difficult to determine the exact degree of enlargement, as it varies in the different organs. To me it seems probable, that, at an ave- rage, when an artery, as the aorta, divides into two branches, the proportion of the two branches, compared with the trunk, is as three to two. As these divisions are frequently repeated, the capacity of the arteries must be continually increasing as they proceed from the heart to the extremities; hence the ar- terial system has been compared to a cone, with its apex at the heart. The arteries of the stomach, intestines, heart, joints of the extremities, &c. which are liable to sudden and unequal pres- sure or contortion, in their course, are frequently united, or form ancvstomuses. In some cases, two trunks equal in size are united; but in others, a small trunk is joined to the larger. There are instances, in which two trunks meet in an arch, as in the mesenteric arteries, or two trunks meet at an acute