220 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. not appear until the girl has reached her sixteenth or seven- teenth year; and the menses are only in small quantity, and sometimes appear only in summer. The quantity discharged is very various, even in women living in the same climate ; generally speaking, in warm cli- mates it is more abundant, amounting to 10 or 15 ounces; but, in Europe, not above half that quantity is discharged. In tropical climates, the menses often cease when a woman has arrived at her thirtieth year ; but, in this country, they continue until the woman is forty-five or fifty years old. An opinion has prevailed, that unless a woman has men- struated she cannot be impregnated ; but it is an opinion which is destitute of foundation. It has been much disputed, whether the menses are de- rived from the vagina or uterus. I have seen the menses, in cases of prolapsus uteri, flowing from the vessels of the ute- rus ; we then also observe the mucous membrane of the uterus softer than usual, covered with villi; and can also sometimes see open pores, from which blood is discharged. Mr Biiande has lately analysed the “ menstruous dis- charge, collected from a woman with prolapsus uteri, and con- sequently perfectly free from admixture of other secretions. It had the properties of a very concentrated solution of the colouring matter of the blood in a diluted serum.” The veins of the virgin uterus are very numerous, and anastomose with the arteries. The lymphatic vessels of the uterus follow the course of the spermatic and hypogastric bloodvessels. The nerves of the uterus are dei'ived from two small gan- glia, placed behind the rectum. Of the Uterine or Fallopian Tubes. The uterine tubes, which extend transversely across the pelvis, and are connected with the lateral parts of the fundus uteri, and are about four inches long, form a communication between the ovaria and uterus. In form they are somewhat like to a trumpet, with the narrow extremities next to the uterus, the aperture in which is capable of receiving only a hog's