OF THE STRUCTURE OF GLANDS. 119 ently disposed before entering into the substances of the glands, which has been supposed to have an influence upon the nature of the secreted fluid. The arteries, after having entered the glands, are subdivided into very minute branches, which, in some instances, form continuous canals with the smaller branches of the excretory ducts of these glands ; but, in other instances, there are small cells interposed between the smaller branches of the arteries, and the smaller branches of the excretory ducts. Without entering into the merits of the question as to the existence or non-existence of cells in all glands, which gave rise to a warm and long dispute between Ruysch and Boer- haave, I shall state those facts which have fallen under the observation of my Father, who, during the time he was oc- cupied in preparing materials for his Thesis, on the Struc- ture of the Testes, directed his attention in an especial man- ner to the structure of glands, and made many preparations illustrative of their structure, from which drawings and en- gravings were at the time taken, two of which * I have thought not unworthy the attention of the reader. The following is an extract from his Lecture on the Struc- ture of Glands. “ I always conceived, that if there were follicles, many ar- teries would open into each, but that a single branch of the duct would correspond with each follicle; therefore, I made my experiments, by injecting both, but particularly the ducts; and, in my inaugural dissertation, I have mentioned experi- ments I had then performed on different glands. “ Since that time, and previous to 1762, I had prepared the chief specimens before you. At first I did not perceive the minute beginnings of the vessels in some of the ducts, but afterwards, on applying better microscopes, I found, that the preparations enabled me to describe the ducts from, or very near to, their first orig’ns. “ We find receptacles or follicles in many glandular parts, Plates V. and VI.