303 OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. The nniscle is then to be drawn aside; and if the point of the finger be introduced into the bottom of the wound, the pulsation of the artery may somet imes, hut not always, he dis- tinguished. I have said sometimes, for I have seen the pul- sation of the femoral artery cease when it has been laid bare. The fascia is then to be divided, and the cellular sheath of the arterv. The femoral vein and crural nerve are to be care- fully separated from each other, and a ligature is then to be applied to the artery ; which being done, the lips of the wound should be brought together by adhesive straps. Scarpa has lately recommended, that the operation for fe- moral artery should be performed in the upper third of the thigh, in order to avoid displacing the sartorius muscle, (which sometimes has occasioned considerable embarrassment), and as the artery in that situation is more superficial. I have seen this method of operating put into practice, and consider it to be the preferable ; but it is liable to the objec- tion, that, in case of a secondary bleeding, it is not so easy to re-apply the ligature, as w hen the operation has been per- formed according to Mr J. Hunter’s method. The popliteal artery descends between the heads of the gastrocnemii muscles, to which it gives several branches, cal- led sural; and, opposite to the under edge of the popliteus muscle, it divides into two large branches, the tibialis postica and axtica. The anterior tibiae artery arises from the popliteal artery, at the lower edge of the popliteus muscle, and it imme- diately perforates the upper part of the interosseous ligament; descends along the anterior surface of it, between the tibialis anticus, and extensor digitorum longus muscles, about the middle of the leg; it crosses over the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis pedis, and the tendon of the long extensor of the toes. Above the ancle, it is situated upon the forepart of the tibia; it then passes under the annular ligament; then between the extensor longus pollicis and tibialis anticus mus- cle ; and passing along the upper part of the foot, at the root of the first metatarsal bone, it passes through to the sole of the foot, between the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and