NEltVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 489 bone, to join the portio dura of the seventh pair, in which course it gives off small nerves to the septum narium. It merits mention, that the nerve is small in proportion to the size of the foramen innominatum, the greater part of which is filled up by the dura mater, and I have also observed a great variety as to the size of the foramen innominatum. When it is larger than usual, the meatus auditorius internus is pro- portionally smaller. The other, or deeper-seated branch, which passes to the carotid canal, winds round the internal carotid artery, and unites with two or three small descending branches from the sixth pair of nerves, forms a very soft and intricate plexus. This is the origin of the intercostal or great sympathetic nerve; but upon this subject anatomists are by no means agreed. According to Bock, the sympathetic nerve ascends from the cervical ganglion into the carotic canal, and then divides into an anterior and posterior branch, which anastomose by means of the soft ganglion of the sympathetic in the carotic canal, with the Vidian nerve, and with the third and sixth pairs of nerves. Lobstein, who has devoted much attention to the subject, has described the origin of the sympathetic nerve as follows: “ E nervo abducente tres ramulos vidi egredientes, retro eun- tes, seu cum continuato trunco nervi praedicti angulum for- mantes obtusum, arteriae carotidi impositos, prope tertiam ca- rotidis flexuram, plexum formantes gangliosum, rubicundum, cui filamentum a nervo vidiano accessit. Ex isto ganglio, praeter surculorum mollium fasciculos duos, ad arteriae tunicas duo potissimum exibant rami, unus retro carotidem, alter in ejusdem dorso incedens, qui, ubi ad imam canalis carotici se- dem pervenerunt, in unum coibant funiculum gracilem, cui, nervi sympathetici nomen impositum est.” The next considerable branch which takes its rise from the spheno-palatine ganglion, is the Palatine Nerve, which arises from the lower part of the ganglion, and descends behind the corresponding artery through the foramen palatinum poste- rius.