360 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. A horizontal section of the hemispheres of the brain, made on a level with the corpus callosum, exposes the greatest pro- portion of the white to the grey substance,—the former of which assumes an oval shape, and has been called the Cen- trum ovale medullare of Vieussens. There is a groove, or raphe, extending longitudinally along the corpus callosum, for a reflected branch of the inter- nal carotid artery, the arteria callosa; and, on each side of it, a medullary cord, from which many transverse fibres proceed. A considerable proportion of the upper portion of the hemi- spheres of the brain has been often removed, without any bad consequences following. It may also be punctured without causing acute pain. Dr Wilson Philip removed, by suc- cessive slices, the whole of the upper and anterior parts of the brain, without affecting the muscles of voluntary motion; that happened only when the knife was applied to, or ap- proached the organs of the nerves, and of the spinal cord. Mr Flourens has stated, that if the lobes of the brain of an animal be removed, it loses the senses of hearing and seeing; and, on the other hand, if the cerebellum be removed, and if the brain be entire, these senses are unimpaired; and that, if one hemisphere be cut out, the sight of the opposite side is lost. But the above observations have not been confirmed by the dissection of human monsters by Brescet, who has described one as dumb, not deaf, whose eyes were sensible to light; yet, on dissection, the left hemisphere was found to be imper- fect; its external part was wanting; its place was supplied by a transparent membrane. On cutting down on each side of the corpus callosum, we get into two oblong cavities, placed horizontally, and which Baron Haller has well named, on account of their figure, Ventriculi Tricornes, each of them having three cornua. But it is improper to call these cavities, as their opposite sur- faces are in contact, in a sound brain. The lateral ventricles are proportionally much larger in the foetus than in the adult. This observation applies to these cornua. The sides of the ventricles are constantly besmeared by a