ELEMENTS OfF ANATUMl'. proves ix powerful stimulus; granulations shoot out from iim living bone, and push off the diseased one. The lymphatic vessels frequently remove diseased parts which are no longer useful in the animal economy, as aneu- risms, after- the flow of blood has been interrupted through these by a ligature. The opaque and diseased crystalline lens, when depressed, is removed by absorption. The communication between the various parts of the lym- phatic system, is a safeguard against the effects of disease. By means of the various anastomoses between the different lymphatic vessels, there is little or no chance of the progress of the lymph being wholly interrupted 4 in proof of which, a swelling of several of the inguinal glands rarely produces oedema. If there had been no communication between the lacteal vessels, the progress of the nourishment into the blood must have been frequently interrupted, owing to the enlargement of one or more of the mesenteric glands. The acrimony of disease is much blunted by the lymph added by the conjoined absorbent vessels ; hence buboes within the cavities of the body are comparatively rare : the matter of disease is thus diluted and rendered less irritating. The knowledge which the physician possesses of the origin and structure of the lymphatic vessels, suggests to him the important benefits resulting from friction and pressure, when the action of the lymphatic system is torpid. Celsds has highly extolled the rubbing oil on the belly, in cases of dropsy, in which all succeeding authors agree with him. The observations made upon the beneficial effects of fric- tion, in cases of dropsy of the belly, or of general dropsy, ap- ply also to buboes, and venereal nodes: these have often thus been dissipated. Blisters are also extremely useful, when the action of the absorbents is languid, and they prove useful in removing buboes and nodes. The greater number of lymphatic vessels, which take up irritating substances, the infectious matter of disease, and va-