273 OF DEATH FROM VENESECTION. puerperal fever; and if so, why may inflammation not be communicated from a vein in a high state of inflammation, to the neighbouring cellular substance ? In the case of the venereal bubo, there is distinct evidence of the propagation of the inflammation from the lymphatic ves- sels to the surrounding cellular substance. Some time after the receipt of the poison, the lymphatic vessels leading to the inguinal glands, may be felt like cords under the skin ; this is succeeded by an irregular-shaped tumour, called a Bubo ; but that tumour soon assumes an uniform oval or rounded form ; the glands, which were primarily swollen, are no longer perceptible ; the inflammation having been propagated to the cellular substance between them, by which the intervening spaces are filled up. Lastly, the inflammation of the tendons, or tendinous apo- neurosis, does not afford satisfactory explanation of the pecu- liar symptoms that sometimes follow bleeding. If this were the source of the evil, the same symptoms would be very frequent after surgical operations, in the ma- jority of which, some tendon, or tendinous aponeurosis, is wounded. , With respect to the cause of all the mischief which is some- times incurred by the dissection of morbid bodies, we are still much in the dark. It has been supposed to be connected with the disease which had proved fatal to the deceased; and in proof of that opinion, instances have been quoted, of persons having suffered most severely, or of having died, from having examined the bodies of the rheumatic, the dropsical, and those cut off by inflammation of the bowels of the abdomen or pel- vis. But the above does not correspond with my observation ; and I could cite several instances, where there was not the slightest reason to suppose a puncture, even of the most minute description, had been received, in which the most distressing symptoms followed the examination of the healthy bodies of executed criminals ; and also many instances, in which several gentlemen had been engaged in the examination of the same body, and where only one suffered. This leads me to impute the greater disposition of one person than of another to suffer, vor,. jx. s