371 OF THE PITUITARY OEAND. The Pituitary Gland, or Hypophysis, is a small oblong- shaped body, which is inclosed by the dura mater, and si- tuated in the tela sphenoidalis; it is greyish without, and medullary within; and very different as to hardness in differ- ent specimens. The size of this substance varies in persons of different ages: its bulk is not proportioned to that of the other prominences of the brain, and bears to these a different pro- portion in different individuals. The greatest diameter of this substance is the transverse, or from side to side; the less from before backwards. The upper surface in early life is convex, in middle life it is near- ly level, but in old age concave. This substance is of a brownish red colour in the foetus, but in consequence of age it becomes much paler, and the appearance of the cineritious substance is scarcely observable. When water has been accumulated within the ventricles, it assumes somewhat of a yellowish hue. In the ox and horse, the glandula pituitaria is proportion- ally much larger than in man. There are two transverse medullary cords bounding the fore and back part of the third ventricle ; the one passes im- mediately before the short anterior crura of the fornix, and unites the corpora striata : this has been called Anterior Com- missure ; and, at the posterior part of the third ventricle, un- der the root of the pineal gland, there is a similar, though rather shorter cord, called the Posterior Commissure. In the descending cornua of the lateral ventricles, besides the longer posterior crura of the fornix, there are two round- ed bodies, which are joined to the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum : these are small at their origin, become considerably larger as they descend, and at last terminate in a round extremity, which occupies the lower portion of the descending cornu : they have been called Pedes Hippocampi The inner edges of the hippocampi is serrated, and the ser- rae are most distinct in quadrupeds. The posterior cornua of the lateral ventricles become gra- dually narrower as they pass backwards: they describe small a a 2