196 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. in three, the right; and, in one of these, a tumour, formed by the third lobe, as large as a walnut, ascends from it into the bladder. In three specimens, a semicircular tumour ascends from the upper part of both lateral lobes into the bladder. In four, the third lobe, which is not of an uniform figure, is enlarged, and ascends some way into the bladder. In all the specimens where one of the lobes is more enlarged than the other, the neck of the bladder is elongated, and fol- lows a tortuous course ; so that, when a catheter of the ordi- nary length is passed, it does not reach the bladder; and when the space between the lateral lobes is widened by the swelling of the lateral lobes, when the point of the catheter is within the enlarged part of the urethra, it may be passed rea- dily from side to side, or up and down, which leads the sur- geon to suppose his instrument is within the bladder ; and the more especially as, owing to the distention of the bladder, the urine comes away drop by drop, and the disease may be mis- taken for an incontinence of urine. But, when the third lobe is enlarged, the urethra is contracted, and is turned upwards sud- denly on approaching the bladder : hence the use of employing a flexible catheter, or one that is more bent than usual near to its point, and of depressing the handle of it, when it is to be passed into the bladder *. In all the specimens, the muscular fasciculi of the bladder are enlarged. In one specimen, cysts were formed between the principal fasciculi, which contained urinary concretions, and other calculi were in the open cavity of the bladder. In another preparation, where the whole bladder was much dilated, there were very large cysts between the muscular fas- ciculi, but no calculi were lodged in them ; but, in the cavity of the bladder, there were six lamellated spherules, about the size of peas, with long spiculee growing out from them, which • Sir E. Home has stated, “ That, in some instances, the internal changes in the structure of the prostate gland are produced by extravasation from rup- ture of vessels in different parts of its substance, and that the increase in size is more or less rapid, according as the vessels are larger or smaller.”— Pract. Ob.. 971 the Prostate Gland, Lond. 1818, p> £6.