ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 6‘6 of the angles and anastomoses of the arteries, of mechanical pressure, and of the greater area of the branches than of the parent trunk, should flow much more slowly in the smaller than in the larger trunks of the arteries. The above holds true with regard to water contained in metalline tubes; but perhaps not with regard to blood circu- lating through the muscular and elastic bloodvessels of a liv- ing animal,—as has been proved by the experiments of Hal- ler * and Spallanzani ; who have stated, that they re- marked the blood issuing as rapidly from the smaller as from the larger arteries. 11. The blood, which is distributed by the branches of the arteries, is brought back again by the veins, which are continued from the smaller branches of the arteries, as may be seen in the pellucid parts of animals ; and, by throwing a penetrating liquor into an artery, it flows into the veins. The smaller veins uniting, form the larger; whilst the larger, by their union, form the vena cava superior and infe- rior. The former brings back the blood from the upper, the latter from the under parts of the body to the heart. 12. The return of the blood through the veins to the heart is promoted by the muscular power of the vessels them- selves, the action of the adjoining muscles, and pulsation of neighbouring arteries; and, perhaps, also by the column of blood in the veins, which, being always full, the effect of the stream of blood a tergo, must be considerable in pushing on the blood. The reflux of the blood through the veins is pre- vented by the valves within them. 13. The circulation of the blood is proved by the struc- ture of the heart, arteries, and veins; and by ligatures * Vide Element. Phys. Lib. 6. sect. 30. •f Vide his Experiments on the Circulation of the Blood. “ I did not find” he observes, “ that the blood, in passing out of the middle-sized arteries into their branches, experienced the least retardation from any difference in the ca. pacity of the vessels, or the numerous angles they formed with one another ; nor did the mode of circulation, whether languid or strong, oscillatory or inter- mittent, appear to be at all affected by multiplicity of natural and artificial cur- vatures, or the flexures and convolutions made by the different ramifications.”