OF THE FUNCTIONS OF NERVES. 329 ductor, like the staff of a blind man, by which he gains a knowledge of the presence of external bodies. In the more perfect animals, the feeling principle occupies but a small space of the brain, and probably near to the ori- gin of the nerves. If the nerve of a limb be divided, so that the communica- tion through it is intercepted, the feeling is lost: it may be pricked without causing pain. It is singular, that, after a limb has been amputated, if the nerves of the stump be irritated, pain is 'not felt in the part irritated, but is referred to the extremities of the toes : the in- jury runs backwards to the feeling principle, and that refers it to the termination of the nerve: hence, when we wish to deter- mine the feeling which the wound of any part gives, we must preserve uninterrupted the communication with the brain. What has been stated as to the nerves applies also to the spinal cord, if it be divided transversely ; all the parts beneath it become paralytic, but the upper parts of the body, which communicate with the brain, preserve both sensation and mo- tion. In short, the sensibility of a part depends upon its connec- tion with the brain. The sensibility of certain nerves is very much modified by a variety of circumstances. Thus, the continued action of light and heat, to which many mechanics are exposed, the straining of the eyes in watch-making, engraving, reading with candle light, and other occupations, have a great effect in weakening the sight. The sense of hearing becomes obtuse by continued noise, as by the noise of cannon. The sensations communicated by the nerves are very va- rious, owing probably to their peculiar structure, and to certain properties inherent in them ; thus the optic nerve conveys the there is a contraction of the nervous fibres, which is independent of the brain with which they are connected, or with the muscles on which they terminate. But I doubt whether a nerve possesses such properties as have been ascribed to it; I have not observed any degree of retraction of the eighth pair of nerves, after it has been divided.