101 OF RESPIRATION. in order to distinguish the colour of the blood passing through them. By inflating the lungs he imitated inspiration, and ob- served, that, during the inflation, the blood in the trunks of the pulmonary artery was black, but in the trunks of the pulmo- nary veins it was florid ; and when the inflation was intermit- ted for a minute, the blood in the trunks of the pulmonary vein became gradually black, like that in the arteries. My Father suggested to Dr Goodwyn a number of experi- ments which that gentlemen executed. The following is an exact copy of the manuscript in my possession. “ In consequence of your obliging suggestions I made the following experiments, which seem to me to strengthen the o- pinion I have advanced in my Thesis. “ Experiment 1.—I took out two circular pieces from one side of the skull of a dog, with a trepan, and without wound- ing the dura-mater. Immediately after I took out two simi- lar pieces from the other side, so as to expose a large surface of the brain covered with the dura mater. We saw the alter- nate elevation and depression of the exposed surface, and these motions were synchronous with the motions of respiration, and proportionate also to the degree of inspiration and expiration. Ten minutes afterwards I introduced my thumbs at the ope- nings on each side, upon the surface of the brain, and passed them entirely under the bone of the skull, compressing the volume of the brain and cerebellum at least to nine-tenths of its ordinary extent. The animal immediately uttered several cries, and the muscles of voluntary motion were suddenly con- tracted ; the respiration was a little increased ; and the pulse more frequent. About two minutes after, the animal had lost its power of voluntary motion ; and, as far as we could dis- tinguish, its sensibility. The respiration became deep and slow, the pulse less frequent and more full, and a stupor immediate- ly followed. I his compression on the brain was continued about forty minutes; and all the symptoms just described remained du- ring the whole time without any particular alteration. As soon as I removed the compression, the substance of the brain gradually returned to its original bulk, and the animal recovered by slow degrees its sensibility and voluntary motion.