OF THE MEANS OF INFLATING THE LUNGS. 107 2d, That respiration is one of these functions on which life more immediately depends. Some difference of opinion has existed, and I believe still exists, as to the length of time this function can be suspended; and statements of persons remaining under water for half an hour, or even for three quarters of an hour, and afterwards having been restored to life, have been published. This is a point which it is most important to ascertain, as a surgeon, pro- ceeding under the impression that life may be restored after half an hour, may neglect having immediate recourse to those remedies which are most essential to the recovery. My Father therefore made several experiments with the view to determine this point; and he invariably found that, if the breathing of a quadruped be suspended completely for five or six minutes, it is impossible to restore it to life. Birds were killed in a shorter time. From what has been above stated respecting respiration, it also follows, that nothing is more conducive to the resuscita- tion of the vital spark, when nearly extinguished by the inha- lation of deletereous gases, by suspension, or by submersion, than the inflation of the lungs with pure atmospheric air. At the suggestion of Lord Cathcart, Dr Cullen wrote a letter to his Lordship, published in Edinburgh in 1774, re- specting the best means of recovering persons supposed to be drowned, of which the following is an extract. “ On this subject I am obliged to my learned and ingeni- ous colleague, Dr Monro, who has made some experiments for ascertaining the best manner of inflating the lungs of drowned persons. By these experiments he finds it may be more conveniently done, by blowing into one of the nostrils, than by blowing into the mouth. For blowing into the no- stril, it is necessary to be provided with a wooden pipe, fitted at one extremity for filling the nostril, and at the other, for being blown into by a person’s mouth, or for receiving the pipe of a pair of bellows, to be employed for the same purpose. Dr Monro finds, that a person of ordinary strength can blow in- to such a pipe, with a sufficient force, to inflate the lungs to a