OF THE VEINS. 59 well as ciroular fibrespn tlifc veins, but the former I have not seen. Harvey and Glisson supposed that the veins possessed a. sort of peristaltic motion. Verschuiii, my Father, and Dr Hastings, have proved clearly by their experiments, that the veins are irritable, and contract upon the application of a sti- mulus. The innermost coat of the arteries is very thin and transpa- rent, is remarkably smooth, and besmeared by a fluid which is very like to the synovia of the joints. It is evidently the continuation of the same serous mem- brane that lines the cavities of the heart. This membrane is joined to the muscular coat by fine cel- lular threads, and, when taken from an animal recently dead, has a yellowish-red colour : when allowed to remain in wa- ter, it often assumes more of a red tint, and when there had been no reason to suppose it had been inflamed. In some diseases this coat assumes a brilliant red colour: this I noticed nearly twenty years ago in the body of a woman who died of diabetes, and I have since that period repeatedly noticed the same appearance in different disorders. * A partial ossification of this internal membrane is more fre- quent than in any other part of the body. In all bodies of persons far advanced in life, that I have examined, I have found it to a greater or less degree, and especially in the arte- ries of the inferior extremities. There are certain parts of this membrane in which bone is more readily deposited than in others, and especially in that part of it which is proper to the mitral valve of the heart and semilunar valves of the aorta. I have seen it very rarely in the tricuspid valve and semilunar valves at the origin of the pulmonary artery, or in the coats of the veins. This ossification is not preceded by the deposition of carti- lage : it takes place upon the outer side of this coat: the ossified portions are seldom thicker than the nail, have rag- ged edges, and are composed of very thin layers of bone. * Vjrle Dr Dcvcan’s Annals of Medicine, vol. viii. p. 388.