460 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. •j- Ibid. fig. 4. E F G. • Vide Nervous System, tab. xxxi, fig. 1, 2, 3, 4. “ At ^ie r«ot or osseous part of the lamina spiralis the nerves are white and opaque; but at the flexible and mem- branous parts they are semipellucid *. “ This change of colour is like to that we observe the optic nerve undergoes on entering the eye-ball to form the retina : and, in both, the change of colour is not very gradually made, but suddenly. “ On comparing die semipellucid outer-part of the lami- na spiralis with the retina of the eye, I observed a remarkable difference ; to-wit, that in the retina the texture seems pulpy and uniform, without any such appearance of fibres and net- work, as we might expect to observe from the name Retina, which has been so long and universally given to it; whereas, in the ear, fibres, and the continuation of an intricate net- work, can be seen distinctly in the semipellucid part of the la- mina spiralis, and as far as to its outer edge -j*. “ I have, therefore, in my lectures, long observed, that the term Retina was improper when applied to the nerve spread out on the bottom of the eye, and had been given, not in consequence of accurate observation of the structure, but from a common favourite theory of anatomists, which supposes that the brain and nerves consist of fibres. In the ear, the term may be, with great propriety, applied to describe the appearance of the branches of the portio mollis in their course on the lamina spiralis. “ At the outer-part of the lamina spiralis, the nervous fi- bres and net-work become much less evident; and, upon the continuation of these membranes, on the inner sides of the gyri of the cochlea, the nerves seem to terminate in a semi- pellucid pulpy substance, very like to the retina of the eye.” There is also a canal, described by Berengarius, but now commonly called the Canal of Fallopius, which is placed in the upper part of the pars petrosa, and passes downwards and backwards between the fenestra ovalis and external se- micircular canal, and ends in the foramen stylo-mastoideum. The portio dura of the seventh pair passes through the