ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 164 sides of the prepuce, and describe convolutions on the sides of the froenum, where they are lost. lhe glans penis is besmeared by a white unctuous fluid of a very peculiar smell, which is said to be sebaceous. This fluid is derived from a number of small, hard, grey-co- loured bodies, called Glandules odorif'erce, situated around the corona glandis. These glands are not equally conspicuous in all individuals : in some persons, two or three rows of them • may be observed, after the cuticle has been removed * In warm climates the fluid secreted by these glands is more abundant than in more temperate climates. This has led to the practice of circumcision, by which the glans penis is readily washed, and the accumulation of the sebaceous fluid, which in warm climates becomes by accumulation very acrid, is pre- vented. After circumcision the cuticular lining of the glans becomes thicker, and it has been said that the sensibility of the glans is not diminished. The corpora cavernosa penis are supplied with blood by branches of the pudic artery. It has been already stated, that the glans penis and corpus spongiosum urethras consist of a plexus of small convoluted veins. The veins of the penis are united into a large vein or veins, called Vena or Venae ipsius Penis, which is situated in the middle of the upper surface of that organ. This large vein passes through the triangular ligament of the urethra, and under the symphysis pubis, and pours its blood into a num- ber of large veins, which form a plexus upon the side of the bladder, and which are placed under the inferior ligament of the bladder, which that organ receives from the tendinous aponeurosis of the obturator interims muscle. These veins ultimately terminate in the trunk of a large vein, which ac- companies the posterior iliac artery. The veins that cover the prostate gland, follow a tortuous course, and unite with the veinous sinuses of the bladder of urine. Morgagni in his Adversaria has particularly described these glands.