ELEMENT’S OF ANATOMY. 466 the large size of the ranine artery, wounds of the tongue have been often followed by bad consequences. The tongue has been very often wounded by the teeth, when persons have been attacked by a fit of epilepsy. Thus, the point has been nearly disjoined from the body of the tongue; and if the lips of the wound be not put together, a sort of fissure in the tongue remains, which has callous edges. Hence surgeons have recommended, that, when the tongue has been severely wounded, the opposite sides of the wound should immediately be put together by a suture. A good deal of blood has been sometimes lost by a wound of the tongue, or during the performance of surgical opera- tions upon that organ. It is very difficult to stop the bleed- ing, as a ligature or compress cannot be applied, nor are styp- tics of use. It has therefore been recommended by the surgeons of the Continent to apply the actual cautery. Ac- cording to Jourdain, a bleeding from the tongue may some- times be stopped, by putting a piece of ice under it. From what has been stated respecting bleeding from the tongue, it is evidently prudent on the part of the surgeon to remove a part of the tongue when cancerous, by a double li- gature, according to the method proposed by Sir E. Home. From what has been above stated as to the large size of the arteries of the tongue, much caution is requisite in dividing the fraenum linguae : when it is so short that the tongue can- not be sufficiently raised, the child is prevented from suck- ing, and, in after life, the articulation is rendered indistinct. The best instrument for the purpose of cutting the frmnum, is a pair of scissars, with their points sheathed, or with blunt points; and no more of the fraenum should be divided than is absolutely necessary to admit of the free motion of the tongue. It may be also observed, that the tongue often acquires a most unnatural size from inflammation. In consequence of the application of very stimulating sub- stances, the tongue sometimes in a few minutes acquires so great a volume, as to render the articulation very indistinct,