554 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The lymphatics often run parallel to each other; sometimes they are arborescent, and sometimes reticular. Of the Coats of the Lymphatic Vessels. The coats of the lymphatic vessels are thin and pellucid. There are two coats proper to these vessels, an external outer rough coat, by which they are connected to the neighbouring parts, and which bears a strong resemblance to condensed cel- lular substance, and an internal and very smooth coat, which is reflected to form the valves. These coats may be more rea- dily shewn in the thoracic duct than in the inferior extremi- ties, and more especially in that of the horse. These coats are so thin as to be transparent, are remarkably tough, and capable of supporting a considerable column of quicksilver without rupture : indeed, I suspect that dropsy seldom or never arises from rupture of the lymphatics. There are no fibres to be seen in the coats of the lymphatic vessels of man, but they may be seen in the thoracic duct of the horse. The contents of the lymphatic vessels are very various, and depend upon those parts from which they take their rise. The contents of the lymphatic vessels are rapidly propelled through these vessels; thus, if a lymphatic vessel be compres- sed, the chyle flows instantly onwards on the side next the heart; if we take off the pressure, the part of the vessel which was emptied will be almost instantly filled from the opposite direction, Coagulable lymph forms a share of the contents of the lac- teal and lymphatic vessels; hence, when one of these vessels has been wounded, the lymph forms a plug for the wound. The lymphatic vessels are probably muscular; they are very irritable, more so than the arteries, and contract upon the application of a stimulus : those of young persons are most irritable, and have even been stated to contract after death: indeed, a muscular power is more necessary in them than in the arteries, as there is no vis a tergo to assist in propelling the lymph. The lymphatics possess what may be called a se- lective property, they admit some substances and reject others.