81 OF THE WINDPIPE. Lastly, the sound of the voice has been stated to be lost by dividing the recurrent nerves of the eighth pair. It is difficult to explain from what cause the air passing through the human glottis, should produce a sound different from that of the inferior animals, and how each animal should have a peculiar sound of voice, when the differences in the structure are so trifling. Of the Trachea, Aspera Arteria, or Windpipe. The aspera arteria is a name given to the windpipe, on account of the inequality of its surface. It is so con- structed as to be flexible, elastic, and at the same time al- most incompressible, (excepting by great force), and, there- fore, always open and pervious to the air. This tube is placed in front of the neck, and is slightly fixed to the neigh- bouring parts by cellular membrane. It takes its rise from the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, descends in the fore-part of the neck, and it is commonly said to be covered at its sides only by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, but in most individuals a very small portion only of the front of the windpipe is uncovered by these muscles. In its progress downwards it becomes rather smaller and inclines backwards, and when it reaches the chest, and is lodged between the layers of the mediastinum posterius, behind the arch of the aorta, and nearly opposite to the third vertebra of the back, it divides into two great branches, one of which is proper to the right, and the other to the left lungs: the former of these is the shorter and broader. The cartilages which compose the windpipe are placed horizontally in respect to the axis of that tube; describe about three-fourths of a circle, are bent forwards in such a manner that the windpipe is convex in front, but latterly flattened, and their edges are opposed to each other, little space inter- vening between them. 1 he windpipe at its back-part being destitute of cartilage, is flat, where it is in contact with the gullet. I he cartilages of the windpipe are not uniform as to number, thickness or size, in all persons: they vary in number VOL. If. w