97 OF THE THORAX AND LUNGS. my, and we take it for granted, that, during its passage through the lungs, it gets the addition of the somewhat which enables it to perform its necessary office. Of the Nerves of the containing parts of the Thorax and Lungs. The nerves of the containing parts of the thorax and lungs are derived from the paria vaga of the eighth pairs of nerves, and from the sympathetic nerves. They form considerable plex- uses, called the Anterior and Posterior Pulmonary Plexuses. Prom these plexus nerves are sent out, which accompany the branches of the bronchi, and of the bronchial and pulmo- nary arteries. The larger branches sink deeply into the sub- stance of the lungs, and follow the bronchial arteries, upon the coats of which they are distributed, and are probably ulti- mately lost upon the very sensible mucous membrane which lines the bronchi, though, before reaching that membrane, they are so small as to be invisible by the naked eye. Accord- ing to Haller, the lungs receive fewer nerves than the mus- cles ; he uses the word paucissimi, which is by no means ap- propriate, as there are two plexuses of nerves proper to the lungs; and, it may be added, that the nerves of the lungs are more numerqus than those of the liver. As coughing is readily excited, by many substances applied to the inner side of the larynx and trachea, which give little or no uneasiness when applied to the tongue, pharynx, or oesophagus, we learn that the membrane lining the larynx, trachea, and its branches, possesses a very considerable de- gree of sensibility, and must, therefore, be supposed very sus- ceptible of inflammation, and its consequences. The nerves of the pleurae costales, and of the pleurae pul- monales, which are probably derived from the proper inter- costal nerves and eighth pair, are so minute, that it is very difficult, if not impossible, to trace them by dissection. My Father found, by the following experiment, that, in their sound state, they have very little sensibility. An elder- ly man, to whom he was called in 1769, in an effort of coughing, burst his lungs, and so great a quantity of air was effused into the cavity of the pleura, as to occasion such VOL. II. r