OF THE PENIS. 159 front of the symphysis pubis, to which it is fixed by a liga- ment, called Ligamentum Suppensorium, a reflection of the serous membrane which includes the corpora cavernosa. The length of the penis, when erected, is equal to that of the va- gina. The length and breadth of the penis are by no means uniform in all individuals of the same stature, but vary in dif- ferent individuals, and still more in different nations. Gene- rally speaking, the penis is larger in the Negro than in the European. At birth, the penis is remarkably small, and the glans pe- nis is covered by an elongated prepuce, which renders the pe- nis pointed at its extremity : the opening into the urethra is very small, and sometimes so much so, as to prevent the free discharge of the urine. About the age of 13 or 14, there is a rapid increase in the size of the organs of generation of both sexes. There are also many well attested cases of premature pu- berty ; and in which children, between 4 and 5 years of age, have had emissions of semen, and the testes, scrotum, and penis as large as those of an adult. Too early venereal excitement has a striking effect in en- larging the female breast. Blumenbach * has observed : “ Contraria cura ambitum mammarum augeri posse nullum dubium est: quantum vero praeterea Venus quoque praema- tura eo conferre possit memorabile sane exemplo impuberes et nondum adultae puellae docent.” The penis is so constructed, that it may be occasionally distended, elongated, and erected. In its undistended state, it is cylindrical; but, when distended, rather of a triangular shape. It is composed of two bodies, called Corpora Caver- nosa, and of the urethra, which are included within skin, cellular substance, and a serous membrane. Anatomists generally speak of two corpora cavernosa; but, as the partition between them is imperfect, and readily admits any fluid to pass from the one to the other, it may perhaps be • Vide Med. Chir. Trans, of London, vol. xii. part i. p. 31. f De Gen, Human, Var. Nativ. § iii.