469 OF THE SENSE OF TOUCH. ciallv, as her skin was not rendered fire-proof by any coating, as was ascertained by a minute examination of her skin by Dr DuNCANjwmor and myself, immediately after her exhibi- tion. She was protected, I apprehend, by the rapidity with which the heated substance was applied, by the wonderful power which the body possesses of resisting the influence of great heat or cold; by a certain degree of insensibility of the skin; and probably, also (as Dr Duncan supposed), by the heated body applied producing suddenly an atmosphere be- tween itself and the skin *. There are many examples of a morbid sense of touch; it may be either morbidly acute, or morbidly obtuse. There are many modifications of too great a sensibility of the skin. There is a painful tenderness of the shin, which is expe- rienced even from slight pressure, and is often a concomitant of debility. Itching is another modification of morbid sensibility; it is often occasioned by some local or general irritant, or from the secretion of morbid matter from the skin; and there are many who have a morbid sensibility as to heat and cold. The sensibility of the skin is also frequently more obtuse- than is natural: this loss of sensation or numbness is general or local; it is often limited to one of the arms, or even to a finger. This obtuseness, as to the sense of touch, is a very com- mon symptom of apoplexy, palsy, epilepsy and syncope. Many animals are provided with particular organs, which are exquisitely sensible, and in which the sense of touch is ex- tremely acute. The bill of the swan, goose and duck, is exquisitely sensi- ble, and provided with many large nerves. I have repeated- ly examined the nerves of the bill of the duck, which are de- rived from different sources. These nerves repeatedly com- • Boerhate and Haller have recorded many very striking instances of smiths and glass-blowers, who resisted the application of heat, and which these authors have imputed to the thickness and compactness of the cuticle.