PllOOFS OF THE CIRCULATION. 67 There are various causes which determine the blood to follow a particular course. By means of the contraction of the auricles, the blood flows into the ventricles, from which it is propelled into the two great arteries; and its reflux is pre- vented by the valves placed between the auricles and ventri- cles, and at the mouths of the pulmonary artery and aorta. The different effects of pressure upon an artery and vein, afford incontrovertible evidence of the circulation of the blood. A ligature thrown around the humerus prevents the flow of blood to the fingers, and causes also a swelling of the ar- tery between the ligature and the heart. There is at the same time a swelling of the veins between the ligature and the fingers, the return of the blood towards the heart being im- peded. The circulation of the blood is visible by the aid of the microscope ; it may be imitated by an injection thrown into the arteries; and it is also proved by the loss of blood an ani- mal sustains by opening an artery, and by the injection of eme- tics and purgatives into the veins, which produce the same ef- fects as when taken into the stomach. 14. From what has been said as to the structure, situa- * tion, and functions, of the heart, arteries, and veins, it is evi- dent that these are much exposed to organic derangements. 15. The circulation of the blood is also proved by the ef- fects of transfusing the blood from the vessels of one animal into those of another, which was formerly much practised in England and in France, in order to cure various diseases, and also to render the operation of medicines more rapid and ef- ficacious. It may be added, that, at the Veterinary School at Copenhagen, it has been ascertained that medicines injected into the veins of horses produce their effects more rapidly, and in smaller quantities, than when otherwise administered. The arteries are liable to fall into a state of aneurism. By aneurism, is understood a diseased enlargement of a portion of an artery. Of this organic derangement there are the following varieties. In the first, the diameter of the ar- tery is uniformly enlarged, constituting a round, circum- e 2