URINARY CONCRETIONS. 135 the layers are easily separated, or they are composed of small grains, which are friable, and have little induration, so as to bear a slight resemblance to chalk; but their texture is often not uniform, from being intermixed with uric acid, or phos- phate of magnesia and ammonia. Those composed of phosphate of lime stain the fingers like chalk, are readily broken, are to the taste insipid, and inso- luble in water, but entirely soluble in nitric or muriatic acids, from which the earth may be precipitated by ammonia or fixed alkalies. Calculi of this description are charred by being heated, owing to the animal matter they contain, and do not afford lime, when exposed to a great heat. Concretions composed chiefly of phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, are soft, and generally smooth on the surface, of a brilliant white colour, and consist of lamellar crystals, which assume a prismatic form, are fusible by the blowpipe, and are converted into an opaque white glass: they become black when placed on hot coals, give out an empyreumatic am- moniacal odour, and melt when the heat is raised. There are but few concretions which consist of this triple salt only : it is generally intermixed with phosphate of lime or uric acid, forming alternate layers with these. Such calculi are very soluble in diluted acids, and, when thrown into diluted mu- riatic acid, the phosphates of lime and magnesia are dissolved, and a membranous substance remains in slight flakes, which consists of albumen. The fixed alkalies disengage the am- monia, also the acid, and separate the magnesia. The third class comprehends such concretions as are solu- ble neither in acids nor alkalies. In this class, the mulberry calculi are contained; they are externally of a chocolate colour, but internally of a grey or light brown colour, are very hard, and take a fine polish. The prominences on the surface are sometimes rounded, but generally they are pointed and very sharp. Such concretions seldom or never attain a large size: they consist of lamellae of unequal thickness. Even when reduced