OF THE LATERAL OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 207 I shall subjoin a very few observations respecting the late- ral operation of lithotomy, as it is now performed, referring the reader for a more particular statement to those books which treat professedly on that department of surgery *. The operation is most readily performed when the bladder is moderately distended ; for which purpose, the patient should be enjoined, a few hours before the operation, to drink freely of some weak tea, or other mild liquor, and to retain his urine, which is safer and less painful than the for- cibly distending the bladder, by forcing a liquor through the urethra; which, according to Dr Middleton, proved the most painful part of the operation. After the hair has been removed from the perinasum, and the patient properly secured, and laid upon his back upon the table; that is, horizontal, and nearly on a level with the breast of the surgeon, the surgeon would do well to ascertain that the bladder has risen above the ossa pubis, which is a proof that its coats are not thickened, and its cavity contract- ed, which often happens to persons advanced in life, who have been for a long time afflicted by stone in the bladder ; to trace with his finger the arch of the pubis, and the ascend- ing branch of the os ischium, and also the exact place of the tuberosity of that bone, before he divides the skin, lest there should be such a malconformation of the bones as does not leave sufficient space for the extraction of the stone f. That the progress of the staff may not be interrupted by the con- traction of the urethra, Avhich otherwise would be excited by the cold steel, it should be previously put for a few minutes into tepid water, and afterwards well smeared with oil; and, after having been introduced, it is consigned to the manage- ment of a skilful assistant, whose business is to hold it very steadily, and to direct its convex part to the right, if the groove be in the under part of the staff; but if the groove be in the side of it (which is preferable), it is to be held vertical- • Vide Dr Douglas's History of the Lateral Operation of Lithotomy; DmcruMP3, B. & J. Bell, Allan, Caiipue, Coopek’s Surgical Dictionary, Art. Lithotomy. t Vide Observations in Vol. j. p. 89., on the Distortion of the Pelvis.