BRANCHES OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. 383 the anterior artery of the brain, and form an arterial circle around the sella turcica, which has been named the arterial circle of Willis. The ascent of the blood to the head, and tortuous course of the arteries of the brain, tends to diminish the impetus of the blood sent to that delicate organ. That this is the pur- •pose of Nature, appears more evidently, by examining the distribution of blood in graminivorous quadrupeds. With the internal carotid arteries of such animals, there is a substance connected, which was observed by Galen, and called by him the Rete mirabile: it consists of a very great number of small serpentine vessels, which are afterwards collected at the side of the sella turcica into a trunk. According to my Father, the vertebral arteries also form a rete mirabile. My Father observes, “ Every individual artery or vein within the head is not always of the same size, nor does it al- ways contain the same quantity of blood; and, of course, the arteries within the head are immoveable, or want pulsa- tion, or are unsusceptible of inflammation : For, While the heart is performing its systole, the artery here, as elsewhere, may be dilating; and, in the mean time, a quantity of blood, equal to that which is dilating through, is passing out of the head by the veins. “ Neither does it follow, from nearly the same quantity of blood being at all times contained within the head, that the opening the arteries or veins on the outer side of the head, or in the limbs, can be of no service in the cure of apoplexy, or inflammation of the brain: For although, by venesection or arteriotomy, we cannot diminish the quantity of blood within the cranium, we can diminish the force with which it is im- pelled into it.” Of the Veins which correspond with the Branches of the In- ternal Carotid and Vertebral Arteries. The larger veins of the brain do not follow a similar course- with the arteries, but pass between the convolutions of that organ, and terminate in the venous sinuses, with their orifices' directed obliquely forwards.