ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 318 The nerves can scarcely be said to be elastic, nor do they vibrate, when irritated, in a living animal. There are a number of bloodvessels, which are distributed upon the surface of nerves, and which also penetrate into their substance, between their component fasciculi, and which, as has been above stated, become enlarged, when in a state of inflammation. The nerves are generally imbedded in a quantity of fat and cellular substance; they follow the same course as the bloodvessels, and are so disposed as to be well protected by the bones and their processes; and they generally follow near- ly a straight course to the part on which they are distributed. The preceding observations are applicable to the nerves of the human body. The nerves of the inferior animals present many peculiari- ties. I shall describe what has fallen under my notice. In the younger animals of the class Mammalia, the nerves, as in man, are somewhat of a redder colour than in the older. In Birds and Amphibia, there is a greater proportion of a gelatinous substance intermixed with the more opake and whitish matter of the nerves. In the sciatic nerve of the frog, upon the white matter, a number of brown spots may be observed, whether the nerve be stretched or relaxed. The nerves of many of the Mollusca are, in a great mea- sure, gelatinous, and so like the colour of the contiguous parts, that it is almost impossible to trace them, before putting the body of the animal, for some time, into spirit of wine. The nervous system of the common leech presents a singu- lar appearance. There is a cord of a dark colour, not un- like to a vein, half full of blood, upon which there area num- ber of white bodies, about the size of the point of a pin. When this cord is examined, by the aid of a common magnifying olass, it seems semitransparent in its centre, and bordered by a dark purple line. The little bodies connected with it, at the distance of about half an inch, have a lozenge shape, and present exactly the same appearance as the cord itself; and, fr0m each of these, there are two little cords which pass in a