ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 566 not an infallible test of the presence of muscular fibres, it af- fords at least strong presumptive evidence of the fact, and when it can be proved that, to a fibrous structure is super- added a remarkable degree of irritability, we conclude with Haller, that the lacteal and lymphatic vessels possessing these properties, are truly muscular, and, by that power, that the fluid which had entered by the influence of capillary at- traction, is propelled upwards; and it has been proved, that the contents of the lymphatic system are propelled onwards even after death. The valves of the lymphatic vessels also contribute to the progress of their contents. If they had been destitute of valves, the progress of the included fluids towards the heart might have been interrupted. As the lym- phatic vessels are valvular, when the muscles in their vicinity contract, the fluid is pushed onwards, for the valves impede the reflux even of so ponderous a substance as quicksilver; and it may be added, that the pulsation of those arteries which are contiguous to the lymphatic vessels, may contri- bute to the same purpose. In short, the orifices of the lymphatic vessels are very irri- table, and they in all probability possess a contractile power, which is propagated through these vessels by the stimulus of the chyle, and that contraction runs up the tubes, and the liquor is prevented from returning by valves. This opinion accounts for all the phenomena of absorption. It explains why the lymphatic vessels absorb more at one time than at another; at one time, they are more irritable, and moi-e excitable than at another, and sometimes the lymphatic vessels are indolent, because there is not the proper stimulus applied to them. Why is the action of the lymphatic vessels on some occa- sions suspended ? There may be various causes for that, and it may be added, that the lymphatic vessels are so circum- stanced, as to be beyond the reach of the ordinary stimuli,— a circumstance which shews clearly, that they are incapable of being excited in the usual manner. It proves, that the ac- tion which the heart has on the bloodvessels does not extend to the lymphatic vessels, which must have been the case,