484 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and colour ; and, generally speaking, is most abundant in parts most exposed, and in cold climates. There is a very great difference as to the quantity and dis- tribution of hair on men and quadrupeds. The former may be said to be almost destitute of hair, when compared with the latter; and in men, the hair is accumulated on the head, forming one of the greatest ornaments of man. The hair, also, of the different inhabitants of the globe, differs not merely as to its colour, but also as to its consistence and length, being in the African short, wooly, and curled; and there are nations, as the African, Mongolian, Chinese and American *, amongst whom the beard is very thin, and al- most a wan ting. Fishes, reptiles, amphibia and mollusca, have no proper hair. Different names have been applied to hairs, from their si- tuation, as Beard, Whiskers, Eye-lashes. The colour of hair varies much amongst different nations, and has a relation to the colour of the skin, being white in the Albino, darker in the European, and black in the Negro; and when the skin of the Negro is in part white, the hair that grows upon that part is also white. Hairs differ as to form; generally they are round, but sometimes they are flat, or two-edged. There is much difference as to the growth of hairs; that of the head is sometimes so long as to reach the knees; but that of the beard of the male seldom grows longer than to touch the uppermost part of the chest. The hair of many animals is long and straight, but in others crisped. When crisped, it is called Wool; when stiff, Bristles; and when inflexible, Spines. The hairs are imbedded in the cellular substance, and grow from roots, or bulbs, as they have been called, which are very conspicuous in quadrupeds. The hairs pass through the skin • Vide Ulloa. The Indians have no beard ; and the greatest alteration, oc- casioned by their arriving at the years of maturity, is only a few straggling hairs on the chain, but so short and thin as never to require the assistance of the razor.