504 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The arachnoid coat is closely connected with the pia mater by cellular substance; and its outer part is connected with the dura mater between each pair of its nerves, by sharp- pointed membranes, resembling the teeth of a saw, which are said to form a ligamentum denticiilatum. The spinal marrow is flattened before and behind with transverse folds on it; and, in the middle of the spinal cord, there is a distinct canal or groove; so that it seems to be composed of two cords, each of which is subdivided, and con- sists, like the brain, of cineritious as well as of medullary matter, but the former is internal; and hence, upon dividing transversely the spinal marrow, its internal cineritious sub- stance has a cruciform appearance. It has been stated by Gall, that the grey matter is formed before the white; but this does not hold true in respect to the spinal cord. This has been observed during the incubation of the chick; for the rudiment of the spinal cord is, at that period, formed of white matter only; the grey matter is a subsequent addition. It may be also observed, that the very minute examinations of the embryo by the Wenzels, Tie- demann, and Serres, have given additional weight to the opinion of my Father, as to the grey and white matter of the orain, viz. that the grey is the original matter, and gives ori- gin to the white substance of the brain. The thalamus nervi and corpus striatum of the embryo, are composed of grey matter only ; and the streaks of white matter afterwards ob- served in the corpus striatum are not yet formed. The streaks in the parietes of the fourth ventricle are not visible until fifteen or eighteen months after birth. Every nerve derived from the spinal marrow consists of an anterior and posterior bundle of nervous fibres, each of which has its proper hole in the spinal canal, on the outer side of which they are involved in a common sheath ; and, when this has been dissected with care, a ganglion is discovered in the posterior bundle. Mr C. Bell has discovered, that the anterior and pos- terior bundles of nervous fibres .differ in function : on the