OF THE NERVES OF THE EYE-BALL. 425 trunk of the nerve: it is placed immediately under the perios- teum that lines the upper part of the orbit. The nerve divides into three branches, which pass through separate foramina of the os frontis. The largest branch comes out at the foramen supra-orbitarium, or foramina su- pra-orbitaria; or it is lodged in a groove of the bone, and fixed down in that situation by a ligamentous membrane: it then divides into exterior and interior branches. The exterior passes under the frontal muscle, and a num- ber of the branches pass over the muscle, and supply the up- per eye-lid, the corrugator supercilii, and fore-part of the oc- cipito-frontalis muscle, and are continued to the back of the head, but they do not inosculate with the branches of the oc- cipital nerve. The interior branch supplies the corrugator supercilii, and it communicates with the supra-trocldear nerve. The second branch, called Supra-Trochlear, or lesser fron- tal, passes under the superciliary ridge to the upper eye-lid and forehead. The third branch, called Iirfra-Trochlear, is the smallest; this communicates with the supra-trochlear nerve, and distri- butes its branches at the side of the nose. The Nasal branch is deeper than the other branches of the ophthalmic; it passes obliquely over the optic nerve ; it sends off a small nerve, which passes to the outer side of the optic nerve. The trunk of the nerve then passes beneath the levator palpebrae superioris and levator oculi, and between the abductor oculi and superior oblique muscles, and gets with- in the cranium, through the foramen orbitarium anterius: it lies upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and passes downwards through the foramina in the anterior part of this plate; it detaches small branches t.o the upper turbinated bone ; and, according to Meckel, it frequently gives a branch to the frontal sinus. 1 The principal part of this nerve passes along the mem- brane at the anterior part of the partition of the nose, and it is ultimately spent upon the extremity of the nose.