98 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. a degree of suffocation, as rendered the paracentesis of his thorax necessary to save his life. After the perforator of the trocar which was employed, was withdrawn, and the air discharged, he introduced, through its canula a leathern bougie ten inches long, and turned it around within the ca- vity of the pleura, so as to touch both the pleura costalis, and pleura pulmonalis, without exciting coughing, or giving him such pain as to make him shrink or complain much. In two cases, in which an incision, large enough to admit the linger, was made in the pleura, on account of empyema, my Father introduced a surgeon’s probe, bent like a hook, into the cavity of the thorax, and with the point of it rubbed the pleura against the neighbouring rib, without exciting any considerable degree of pain to the patient. Notwithstanding the small degree of sensibility of the pleurae in the sound state of the body, yet the pleura is very often inflamed, which is accompanied bv acute pain. To prove this, my Father cut, and then turned outwards, a portion of the skin of the thorax of a pig like a flap, and then made an incision into the cavity of the thorax, large . enough to admit the point of his finger. He remarked that the lungs were quite sound, and slid readily upon the pleura costalis. The portion of the skin which had been raised was replaced, and covered by a large piece of adhesive plaster. The animal began to breathe with difficulty, and died 37 hours thereafter; and in that short space of time, the lungs, which had collapsed, were much inflamed, and the pleura pul- monalis had contracted partial adhesion with the pleura costalis. Of the Effects of Respiration upon the Atmospherical Air. The quantity of air which is inspired has been very differ- ently rated. At an average about forty cubic inches of air are taken in at each inspiration. Air that has passed through the lungs differs from atmo- spherical air, 1^, In containing a considerable proportion of carbonic acid gas, as was distinctly proved by Dr Black, by expiring through lime-water, which is thereby rendered tur- bid, the carbonate of lime being insoluble in water.