OF THE VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 251 an external and internal branch. The former is distributed on the transverse muscles, and anastomoses with the epigastric, by two or three small branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. When the main trunk of an artery is obstructed, the col- lateral branches, or those arteries by which the blood reaches the same place, become much enlarged ; of this latter remark the internal mammary artery affords a striking instance, for, though of small size, yet it has sometimes become so large, when the aorta has been obstructed, that the greater part of the blood which passed through the aorta to the lower limbs, has been diverted from its usual route, and has passed through the internal mammary and epigastric arteries. In a case described in Desault’s Journal, in which the trunk of the aorta was in a great measure impervious, this ar- tery, and also the epigastric, was very much enlai'ged, so that the greater part of the blood had probably been diverted from its usual channel, and had passed to the inferior extremi- ties by the medium of the internal mammary and epigastric arteries. , The verteeeal is the largest artery that is sent off from the subclavian. In its progress upwards to the passage in the trans- verse process of the 6th and 5th cervical vertebrae it is co- vered by the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve; it inclines outwards and upwards to the foramen in the transverse pro- cess of the atlas, and then is bent backwards in a fossa in the » upper surface of the atlas. It then passes forwards and up- wards to the foramen magnum ossis occipitis, where it joins the vertebral artery of the opposite side. The vertebral artery sometimes takes its origin from the arch of the aorta. Mr A. Burns informs us, that he also had met with such a case; and, in the same subject, “ on the right side, the vertebral artery originated from the subclavian, alongside of the carotid artery. It afterwards ascended along the surface of the rectus major anticus, attached to the sympathetic nerve, till it reached the third cervical vertebra. At this part of 2