560 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. no nerves are distributed through the substance of the lym- phatic glands, but that they merely perforate them in their progress to other parts of the body. Of the Origin of the Lymphatic Vessels. I have already endeavoured to prove, that the lymphatic and lacteal vessels constitute parts of the same system, con- cerning the origin of which it is now proposed to make a few remarks ; and as there has been, and still is, upon this point much diversity of opinion, I think it necessary to enter more at large into this subject. It was supposed that the lymphatic vessels constitute a part of the circulating system, and this was by no means an unna- tural opinion, as Dr Harvey’s discovery of the circulation was prior to that of the lymphatic system. The veins which convey red blood, were supposed to be the only veins of the body. For a long period of time, this hypothesis gained credit, and seemed to be confirmed by experiments. Anatomists found, on opening living animals, blood within the larger lymphatic vessels, and also in the thoracic duct, which was supposed to afford complete evidence as to a connection be- tween the arteries and the lymphatic vessels. Nuck has also stated, that when he threw an injection with force into the splenic artery, he filled vesiculas quasdam, and also lymphatic vessels; and Cowper’s experiments with the spermatic artery were followed by a similar result, and have been confirmed by Ruysch. Kaw Boerhaave affirm- ed, that water was absorbed by the mesenteric veins, and thus passed through the liver to the heart. Dr Mekel filled the lymphatic vessels of the different bowels of the pelvis, by filling their cavities. The late experiments of M. Majendie of Paris, lead to a similar conclusion, and especially the following experiments: « M. Dei.ille and myself separated from the body the thigh of a dog, that we had first laid asleep with opium, to prevent the pain inseparable from such an experiment; wre left untouched only the crural artery and the crural vein,