OF THE MEMBRANE OF THE DRUM. 449 substance, the wax, and by a number of hairs. 1 his canal is not of an uniform size ; for it is rather narrower in the middle than at either extremity. . , In some instances, the external passage is awanting, as in a specimen in the Museum ; and its capacity is often diminished by a swelling of the softer parts, or by polypi, or other tu- mours growing from it, or from the membrane of the drum. In some species of whale, the external passage is very small; and it is so much so in the skate as to give admission only to a hog's bristle. In the common whale, my Father discovered a substance of an oval shape, within the external passage, which acts like a valve, and prevents the water from over-distending or ruptur- ing the membrane of the drum, when the animal has dived deep. In the foetus the external meatus is cartilaginous. The membrane of the drum is placed at the bottom of the external passage ; it is the limit between the external and in- ternal ears. The membrane of the drum is nearly circular in form, and placed obliquely, the upper portion being directed outwards, and the lower inwards. This membrane is semiopaque in the human body; but, though thin, it is firm, and is concave outwardly. The membrane of the drum of the elephant is of consider- able extent and thickness ; and, according to Sir Everard Home, is a distinct muscle, with fibres radiating from its centre to the circumference. This led him to examine, with care, the same membrane in the human body, which he has described as a muscle with radiating fibres. The bloodvessels of this membrane are disposed in a sin- gular manner: they pass from the circumference to the han- dle of the malleus. The membrane of the drum of birds is, in proportion to the bulk of their bodies, greater than in the human body or in quadrupeds; but it is considerably thinner, and there is no appearance of fibres in it. T he muscular fibres of the membrane of the drum are fixed to the handle of the malleus. Sir Everard Home supposes that, by means of the ac- voe. xr. F f