148 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the urachus, which are placed between the peritonaeum ano abdominal muscles, it is connected with the navel. The two shrivelled umbilical arteries pass obliquely from the sides of the bladder, and the urachus ascends between these, from the fundus of the bladder. The urachus of the adult is about the size of a small writing-quill, fibrous, of a white colour, and extends from the fundus of the bladder to the navel, where it is lost, becoming insensibly of a very small size. It is generally solid, but sometimes hollow ; and it has been said by Littre, that the urine sometimes passes through it, and escapes at the navel, which happens only when the neck of the bladder has been obstructed. According to Haller and Boyer, the urachus is hollow; and the latter author found twelve small calculi, of the size of millet-seeds, within it. The urachus of the quadruped is al- so hollow, and passes along the chord to the sac called Allan- tois. 3d, The bladder is retained in its place by the tendinous aponeurosis, which is derived from the obturator interims muscle. This fascia extends from the sacro-iliac symphysis to the symphysis pubis, and is connected with the linea ilio- pectinea. This fascia is reflected off from the obturator in- ternets muscle upon the sides of the bladder. It is thicker where it covers the obturator interims muscle than where it covers the sides of the bladder ; and, as it ascends upon the bladder, it becomes gradually thinner. This fascia covers the prostate gland and vesicula? sentinales ; forms the septum between the pelvis and the perineum, and is gradually lost on the body of the bladder, where it is uncovered by the pe- ritonaeum. This fascia is divided into two layers, one of which is reflected upwards, to cover the sides and fore part of the bladder, which, at its fore part, forms the anterior ligament, and is continuous with the back part of the triangular liga- ment of the urethra : it includes the prostate gland, to which it gives a firm covering, and also the vesiculae sentina- les, and is lost between the bladder and rectum. The other layer of this fascia, which is very thin, includes the rectum. This fascia forms what may be called the Anterior Ligament of 3