26 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. within the chest, laid rather more obliquely across it, and well protected by the bones of the chest, by its capsule, and by the soft and spongy lungs, which, to a certain extent, inclose it. It is retained in its place byihe great vessels connected with it. Though the heart is fixed down above and behind, by the large vessels which enter or come out from it, the situation of the heart varies with that of the body. When we lie on the back it falls backwards, on account of its weight, and inclines either to the right or left sides with the body at large; and it is pressed upwards by the distended stomach. The situation of the heart is also altered, by tumours, water or purulent matter collected within the pleura or abdomen. The heart, in- stead of being laid obliquely, is sometimes placed like the heart of a quadruped, in a line with the breast-bone; and occasionally, though rarely, it is protruded externally, so as to form a hernia. Chaussiee gives a case in which the heart was placed at the upper and anterior part of the abdomen of a new born child. In this case, the form and alternate elevations or depressions of the heart, dependingon the dilatation and contraction of its ven- tricles, were evident to sight. When the child inspired, the heart rose, and partly disappeared, in the thorax; but when it expired, the position of [the organ was lowered and more ad- vanced. When the child cried, the size of the tumour was increased, and it became more tense, but the tumour diminished and became softer, when the child was still, and laid on the back, or nearly on the side. On pressure being applied, the heart seemed to re-enter the thorax, and upon the pressure being taken off, the tumour resumed its usual form, and the heart suddenly started forwards. The child w7as in other respects wrell made. Oilier cases where the heart protruded are on record. Vaxbonais * has described a human foetus, born at the eighth month, where the heart protruded by an opening at the up- per part of the thorax. • Acad, des Scien. 1715.