221 OF THE ATAGINA. bristle, and at the larger opposite extremities, which are loose, there are a number of irregular processes called Fimbria. These tubes are covered by the peritonaeum, within which, in young and robust women, there are mus- cular fibres disposed in a longitudinal direction, cellular sub- stance, and a mucous membrane, which is continuous with that lining the womb, and which projects beyond the broader extremities of the b’allopian tubes, forming its fimbriated processes. These tubes are largely supplied with bloodvessels. The veins proper to these tubes are larger than the arteries, and when animals have been opened in coitu, they have been ob- served much distended with blood, so that these fibres had a very dark colour; and the broader extremities of the tubes then embrace the ovaria. ,i Of the Vagina. The Vagina, which forms the communication between the external organs and the womb, is a musculo-membranaceous canal placed between the bladder and intestinum rectum, which is partially covered by the peritonaeum ; that part next the womb is covered by the peritonaeum, but that portion next the anus is uncovered. The vagina is about seven inches long, in form nearly cylindrical, but somewhat flattened at its fore and back part. The anterior surface forms the same sweep as the bladder of urine and urethra, with which it is in immediate contact. The vagina is much narrower in virgins than in women who have had children, for it never regains its former rugous appearance nor tone, and it is very distensible, curved, conti- nued downwards and forwards, nearly in the course of the axis of the pelvis, and in virgins considerably wider above than below, and rather longer behind than before. The vagina has two coats ; it is lined by a mucous mem- brane, which is not of an uniform thickness in all women, and it is gathered into rugae, which are large in virgins, but which are small in women that have had many children. This mu- cous membrane is rather of a redder colour near to the exter-