OF THE UltETHKA. 171 My Father, Mr J. Huxtru, and Sir E. Home, hold that the urethra is truly a muscular organ. These muscular fibres are quite conspicuous, in some cases, to the naked eye, as in a preparation which has been for twenty years in the Museum of this University; and, in this preparation, the disposition of these fibres accords entirely with the elaborate drawings by Mr Bauer, of the longitudi- nal muscular fibres of the urethra, published in the Philoso- phical Transactions of London. Many circumstances induce me to believe the urethra mus- cular. U/, The muscular structure of the urethra, is in some cases obvious to our senses. 2d, The stream of urine being smaller, during the cold weather of winter, than during the warm and relaxing wea- ther of summer ; and when the membrane is inflamed, in con- sequence of the irritation of the urine, it contracts so much, as to prevent the urine being discharged in a full stream; it then comes away drop by drop; but after immersion of the penis in tepid water, the urethra is relaxed, and the urine discharged in a full stream. 3d, The sudden and temporary obstruction to the flow of urine which sometimes happens to persons with slight stricture of the urethra, on going from a warm room into the cold air. 4th, The obstruction which is opposed to the entrance of a stimulating injection into the urethra, or of instruments, which last are sometimes forced out from the urethra. Ano- ther very strong argument in favour of the muscular struc- ture of the urethra is, the very great facility with which a catheter is passed through the urethra into the bladder of urine, in cases of paralysis, when the muscular fibres of the urethra, owing to their paralytic state, are incapable of oppo- sing resistance to the entrance of the instrument. 5th, The obstruction being removed by large doses of the tincturamuriatisferri or of laudanum, and other antfspasmodic remedies. 6th, The combination of the permanent and spasmodic strictures, which latter comes on suddenly, is occasional,