417 OF CATARACT. The celebrated Kepler, who lived in 1604, was the first who demonstrated the true use of the crystalline lens; and Borklli, Bonnet, and Gassendi hence concluded, that ca- taract was a disease of the lens. The opacity of the substance, or body of the lens, is much more frequent than that of its capsule ; for the pupil general- ly is clear, after the extraction of the body of the lens. In the membranous cataract, the fore-part of the capsule is more frequently opaque than its back part. The centre of the lens generally becomes first opaque, and assumes a yellowish-brown colour; and the size of the lens is somewhat increased ; sometimes the cataract is very whitp, soft, and larger than the lens in a sound state, especially when the disease appears at the period of birth. Cataracts differ as to size, colour and firmness; hence they have been divided into the hard, fluid, and caseous. The hard dark coloured cataract is the smallest; and a con- siderable space intervenes between the cataract and pupil; whereas the white and softer, or fluid cataract, which appears at the period of birth, is of a much larger size, and protrudes a little through the pupil. The caseous cataract holds a middle state, as to consistence and size, between the hardest and softest cataracts. This kind of cataract very much resembles, in miniature, those white clouds which appear in a sunny day ; that is, there are irregular grey-coloured spots upon a whiter ground. In a few instances, the cataract is not of an uniform consis- tence in every part; being softer externally than internally. After the body of the lens has been extracted, an opacity often forms in the capsule of the lens which is left. As the opaque cataract occasions, to a greater or less extent, a loss of sight, and as the disease is seldom or never removed by medicines given internally, or by external applications, it is necessary to have recourse to the aid of the surgeon. Cataracts may be extracted by making a semicircular cut through the lower part of the cornea, and then by punctur- ing the capsule of the lens with a fine needle, and afterwords vor.. n. n d