OF THE HEART. 31 of the branches, being greater than that of the parent trunk, have been ascertained. The muscular fibres of the heart, like those of the other muscles, have occasionally been overstrained, and lose their contractile power to a certain degree, so that the pulse falls to between thirty and forty in a minute, which has been ob- served to happen when the coronary arteries have been ossi- fied. The heart, also, has occasionally been attacked with spasm. The nerves of the heart are very small in man. They have been annually demonstrated in the Anatomical Theatre of the University of this city for the last forty years, and have been described at great length, and also represented with great fi- delity by Scarpa. They may be seen in the heart of a lean ox or horse, without any dissection. These nerves are derived from the eighth pair and sympathetic nerves. There are arteries and veins proper to the muscular sub- stance of the heart, which have been called Coronary. These take their rise immediately behind the semilunar valves of the aorta. The corresponding veins unite, and form the large coronary veins, which open into the anterior auricle. It has been af- firmed that, upon the internal surfaces of the auricles and of the ventricles, there are the open orifices of small arteries. Thibesius wrote expressly on this subject, and hence these apertures have been called The Foramina T/iibesii. I have seen a very penetrating liquor thrown with force into the co- ronary arteries, notwithstanding which, none of it passed into the ventricles of the heart, which leads me to doubt of the ex- istence of such orifices. The lymphatic vessels of the heart are numerous, and may be filled with quicksilver. The heart is a very irritable mus- cle, and preserves that power longer than the greater number of muscles of the body. The muscular fibres of the heart have a most remarkable degree of sympathy with the other parts of the body. Dr Wilson Philip’s experiments have thrown much light