OE THE LEVATOR ANL 143 and descends from a circumference, as it were, towards a cen- tre, to its insertion in the intestinum rectum. The posterior parts of the levatores ani, of opposite sides, unite and pass behind the rectum, and the larger fibres of the muscles are fixed into the ossa coccygis, including the rectum. The anterior portions of these muscles pass down before the rectum. The levatores ani form a sort of inverted funnel, the nar- row end of which is undermost, and the portions fixed to the os coccygeus, together form a sort of tape or swath about the intestinum rectum. This is also attached by its extremities to the sides of the pelvis, and the bulb of the urethra. The levatores ani, besides surrounding the rectum, include the lower part of the rectum, the vesiculas seminales and prostate gland, and in women also the vagina. The anterior fibres of this muscle, which are disposed somewhat like the sticks of a fan, descend, and cover the' membranous part of the urethra, and are fixed below to the anterior part of the sphyncter ani: those which take their rise from the inner part of the symphysis pubis, descend ob- liquely forwards, and are somewhat elevated by the prostate gland, which they cover, and a portion of the muscle is fixed to the triangular ligament of the urethra. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles form the lower part of the abdomen, support the hollow bowels included within the abdomen and pelvis, during the violent action of the diaphragm, as in coughing and sneezing, as may be felt by putting the palm of the hand on the perinseum. By means of the diaphragm and levatores ani, the perpendicular diameter of the abdomen is enlarged or contracted. The most remarkable degree of contraction takes place in' the effort of expelling hardened faeces ; and, on the other hand, the abdomen is enlarged to the greatest degree, during; violent expiration, as in sneezing or coughing, and it is to be taken into account, that the diaphragm has a more powerful effect than the levatores ani and coccygei muscles. The levatores ani, besides elevating the rectum, may have'