563 OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. coats of the artery give way, the injection passes into the cel- lular substance, and into the lymphatic vessels, but not into the corresponding veins; and, by a careful dissection, the very place at which the injection had got out may be detect- ed. With regard to the much celebrated experiment of Ma- jexdie, above quoted, it may be observed, that the poison was insinuated into the cellular membrane of the animal’s foot, and that, whilst the parts were injured, several veins must also have been torn and opened, into which the poison might have insinuated, itself. In the next place, it may be considered, whether the smaller branches of the arteries terminate in the lymphatic vessels, which seems, at first sight, probable. In addition to what has been above stated upon this much disputed point, it may be asked, What purpose can be served by such a distribution of vessels ? As the arteries divide into branches which receive the red globules, and also into branches which admit only the colour- less watery part of the blood, why may it not be supposed that the veins begin in the very same manner ? If lymph be necessary near to the heart, and in the large vessels, to give the proper fluidity to the blood, surely a greater quan- tity is necessary in its return towards the heart. Or, let us reason in another way ; let us examine these organs where there is the least of the red colour in the body ; do we find that the veins proper to these are proportionally smaller ? They are equally large, and the lymphatics are by no means larger. There are instances where, without doubt, the wa- tery part of the blood flows into the red veins, as in the eye. In the eye of a child, there are arteries proper to the crystal- line lens that convey the red blood, but these afterwards become too small to admit the red globules. Or, let us ob- serve what takes place in fishes, as in fhe cod, or skate. There are a few organs of a deep red colour, but all the rest are white. If here the arteries conveying colourless fluid returned their contents by colourless veins, the proportion of the red veins should be very small; whereas the same pro- portion is observed in these animals as in man. N n 2