ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 20 10^5 i h&t the operation for the discharge of matter should be performed so that the air cannot afterwards be freely ad- mitted, as the admission of the air at the wound during in- spiration has sometimes occasioned death: hence the inci- sion of the skin should not be opposite to the wound in the deeper parts. This may be readily avoided by drawing up the skin as far as is possible, before dividing it. The open- ing should be made between the sixth and seventh, or between the seventh and eighth ribs, and about half way be- tween the spine and breast-bone : for, if the cut be made far- ther behind, thick muscles are divided ; if farther forwards, it is too near the bend of the diaphragm on the right side, and we get too much opposite to the pericardium on the left side. SECTION VI. OF THE PERICARDIUM. The pericardium or capsule of the heart is commonly said to contain that organ, but it is, strictly speaking, on the outer side of it, as that capsule is composed of two distinct mem- branes, the outer of which is the pleura, continued from the anterior mediastinum; and the internal, the other fibrous la- mina, is a membrane, which is reflected over the origins of the great bloodvessels, to form the external covering of the heart itself. This capsule is loose around the heart, and so capacious as to be capable of containing the heart, though all its cavi- ties were filled at the same moment with blood, which never happens during life; hence the heart readily moves with the pericardium, and adapts itself, in some respects, to the situa- tion of the body. This capsule has been described as resembling, in form, a cone, but the simile is not quite accurate; for it is considera- bly contracted at. its base, called its Cornua, which embrace the large vessels which enter or come out of the heart; it is expanded unequally on the light side of the breast-bone ; and it is somewhat like a funnel, where it is opposite to the point of the heart. The pericardium is firmly supported, in its place, by its