83 OF THE COATS OF THE WINDPIPE. mucous glands of a similar structure, grouped together be- tween the cartilages of the windpipe, and which are so placed as to be slightly compressed, when the neck is extended or bent *. It is a remarkable circumstance, that, though the larynx, trachea, and its branches, seem to be lined by the same mucous membrane, the different parts of it should not be equally liable to inflammation at the same period of life. In early life, that part of the mucous membrane which lines the wind- pipe is often inflamed ; towards the meridian of life, that part of the mucous membrane which lines the larynx ; and in old age, and also during infancy, the mucous membrane lining the smaller branches of the windpipe is no uncommon seat of in- flammation. I am fully aware, that in the disease called croup, which prevails so much amongst children between three and ten years of age, the mucous membrane of the larynx is often inflamed, as well as that of the windpipe; and also that the inflammation often extends to the mucous membrane of the smaller branches of the windpipe; but still I have seen seve- ral instances in which the inflammation has heen limited to the larynx, trachea or bronchi, and in patients of the dif- ferent ages above named. The trachea divides nearly op- posite to the third dorsal vertebra into its two great branches called bronchi, one of which passes to the right the other to the left lungs. These branches are of unequal diameter and length : the left is the smaller and longer, and passes under the arch of the aorta, before penetrating the substance of the lungs, whereas the right enters immediately into the substance of the lungs. The bronchi are subdivided into branches before entering the lungs ; the right divides into three branches, and the left into two branches only, which again are subdivided into still smaller branches, which are distributed through every part of the lungs, and each branch has its correspond- • I have subjoined an engraving of these from the original drawing by Mr DoxALDiom, which was made forty years ago. Vide Plate IV. Fig, 7. F O