ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 848 bloodvessels which pass through the cribriform plate. It lines also the foramina optica, the orbits, and covers the optic nerve, as far as the sclerotic coat of the eye. It lines the sphenoidal bone, and forms a passage for the internal carotid, and ophthalmic arteries and nerves, passing through the fora- men lacera anteriora. The dura mater extends backwards over the grooves on the upper surfaces of the partes petrosas, forming the upper pe- trosal sinuses. It lines the meatus auditorius internus, and it then lines the os occipitis, covers the lateral and occipital sinuses, and commonly divides the foramen lacerum into two parts, though, in some cases, the division is bony. The dura mater is also continued downwards to the cunei- form process of the os occipitis, from which it passes down- wards into the spinal canal, to form a sheath for the spinal marrow. An elongation of the dura mater extends from the front to the back-part of the head in the middle line of the skull, and divides, to a certain extent, the hemispheres of the brain. This portion of the dura mater is but narrow in the fore- part of the head where it is fixed to the sphenoid and ethmoid bones; but as it sweeps backwards over the corpus callosum it becomes gradually broader, so as somewhat in form to re- semble a sickle; and hence it has been called Falx Cerebri. The upper convex and thicker border, between the layers of which the superior longitudinal sinus is placed, is fixed and connected with the middle of the frontal parietal, and the middle and perpendicular ridge of the occipital bone, and is at length fixed to the middle horizontal partition interposed between the posterior part of the cerebrum and cerebellum, called Tentorium Cercbello-superextensum. The inferior edge is not connected with any part, and between its layers there is a venous canal called Inferior Longitudinal Sinus. The sweep of the under concave part of it corresponds in form with the corpus callosum, but is not fixed to it. There are sometimes apertures of considerable size in the falx cerebri. I met with one instance, in which there was an aperture of