OF THE URETHRA. 173 which this mucus is derived, which may be expressed from the orifices of these glands. In consequence of inflammation and other diseases, this mucus which besmears the surface of the urethra, is not only altered materially in its qualities, but also increased in quan- tity. These mucous orifices are not uniform as to size : there is frequently a large orifice or lacuna on the upper surface of the urethra about an inch from its extremity; it is an oblong slit, and large enough to admit the point of a small bougie. There are also sometimes two other orifices near to the bulb of the urethra, viz. the Ducts of Cowper’s Glands. These merit the attention of the surgeon, as the point of his catheter may get into them instead of passing on to the blad- der of urine : this however, may be prevented by depressing the handle of the instrument, which has the effect of elevating the point of it; and upon this being done, the instrument readily passes into the bladder. The foramen caecum placed at the beginning of the caput gallinaginis may also receive the point of a bougie, which gives great uneasiness to the patient, even when the urethra is not in a very irritable state, but espe- cially when it is enlarged, as in cases of stricture. This also may be avoided by raising the point of the instrument. When a considerable part of the urine has been drawn off, the bladder collapses, and falling upon the extremity of the catheter impedes the flow of urine through it,—a circumstance which has led Camper to propose, that an opening should be made in the catheter at some distance from its extremity, so that all the urine contained within the bladder might be dis- charged : hence also the utility of employing a longer catheter than usual, and with holes so large, that clotted blood or very viscid mucus contained within that organ, (which generally happens in the organic derangements of the coats of the blad- der, and in cases of stone), may readily pass through it. As the urethra is lined by a thin membrane, which is apt to fall into folds, it follows that the more nearly the size of the bougie or the catheter corresponds with that of the ure- thra, the more readily it may be passed through it. By such