252 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tbc neck, just a few lines below the bifurcation of the caro- tid, the vertebral artery entered the vertebral canal. “ The artery lay exterior to the sheath of the cervical ves- sels and nerves; but in its whole course parallel to, and imme- diately behind, the common carotid artery. It was nearly as large as the barrel of a quill.'” Mr Burns adds, “ In taking up the carotid artery, it might have embarrassed him (the surgeon), for it was only separated from the carotid by a thin interposed sheath. If this vessel had become aneurismal, the tumour produced would, in almost every point, and in every essential character, have resembled carotid aneurism.'1'1 When both carotid arteries of a dog were obstructed by the application of a ligature, I have observed, that the infe- rior and superior thyroid were much enlarged; and also the vertebral arteries. The INFERIOR THYROID, GUTTURAL, OV LARYNGEAL AR- TERY, takes its rise from the fore-part of the trunk of the subclavian artery, near to the origin of the vertebral and in- ternal mammary arteries. The origin of the artery is cover- ed by the sternal extremity of the sterno-cleido-mastoid mus- cle. This artery ascends obliquely inwards about two inches, and then passes behind the carotid communis artery ; it then descends, describing a tortuous course, till it reaches the thy- roid gland, where it divides into a number of small branches, which pass into the substance of the thyroid gland, and anas- tomose with those of the superior laryngeal artery. From this artery small branches are sent to the larynx, pharynx, and oesophagus, and two or three small branches descend along the trachea, and anastomose with the bronchial artery. I had occasion to see an instance in which the thyroid ar- tery ascended in front of the windpipe, and therefore might have been divided in opening that tube. The throwing a ligature around the superior thyroid ar- tery was performed by Sir W. Blizzard, whilst I was his pupil, at the London Hospital, twenty-four years ago; but the wound degenerated into a foul ulcer, and the patient died from the loss of blood.