ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 281 the cord, and laid hold of it between his finger and thumb ; and then cut it through, above the seat of the disease : that being done, he took up the arteries of the cord separately. There is perhaps no operation in which a bleeding is so fre- quent as after castration, owing to the enlargement of the ar- teries and veins of the scrotum. I have seen surgeons secure, with great care, all the divided vessels they could see, after the testicle had been removed ; notwithstanding which, after the patient had been in bed for two or three hours, so much blood was discharged as to render it absolutely necessary to undo all the dressings to stop the bleeding. After the testicle has been removed, it is prudent, on the part of the surgeon, to postpone the dressing of the wound for some time. It sometimes happens, that blood is effused from the branches of the spermatic artery within the body of the tes- tes, or from a branch of the spermatic vein, or in consequence of blows, into the cellular substance of the scrotum. This constitutes the disease called Hematocele. It sometimes happens that the spermatic cord is split by means of the protruded bowels, in cases of hernia, so that the vas deferens lies in front of the hernial tumour. The Veins which accompany the branches of the spermatic arteries are much larger and more numerous than those of the arteries, and are provided with valves. These veins frequently become much enlarged ; and, like a hernia, give a sensible impulse to the hand when the patient coughs. This disease, which has been called Circocele, is usually li- mited to the veins of that part of the spermatic cord which is beneath the under abdominal aperture. 'I'he swelling feels knotty and heavy when the patient is in the erect posture; and it becomes larger after exercise, after standing for some time, or forcible expirations; and some- times it gives rise to a wasting of the testicle. The next arteries which are sent off' from the aorta are the Lumbar Arteries. The lumbar arteries take their rise, in pairs, from the back- part of the aorta ; the right are longer than the left, as they