ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 134 and, according to observation, they are more frequent in the male than in the female, and in graminivorous than in carnivorous animals. The chemical analysis of urinary concretions is a matter of much moment in a medical point of view, as thus, we be- come acquainted with the nature of these substances, and may thereby be led to employ those means which are calcu- lated to prevent their increase of bulk, or to dissolve them within the bladder. Urinary concretions may be divided into six classes. The Jirst includes those composed of uric acid and of urate of am- monia. The existence of the simple urate of ammonia has been denied by Mr Brande, as, he observes, the ammonia which calculi, composed of the urate of ammonia, contain, arises from the decomposition of the uree, or of the phos- phate ol ammonia which they contain. The uric acid is more frequently detected in urinary concretions than any Other. Of 300 concretions analysed by Dr PearsOn, there was scarcely one which did not contain it; and all those ana- lysed by Scheele contained it, of a brown or yellow colour, of a lamellar and radiated texture, and with a smooth sur- face. Nitric acid produces the red colour characteristic of uric acid. Calculi composed of uric acid are soluble in hot water, and when heated by a blowpipe, give out ammo- nia. The concretions of this first class blacken without melting on burning fuel, give out a smell like to that of burning, and afford by by distillation ammonia and prussic acid. They are insoluble in cold water, but are soluble in a solution of pure soda or potash, and from the solution, a precipitate of a fine white powder is thrown down by acids. In many of these calculi, the uric acid is nearly pure, but in others, there is an intermixture of the phosphate of lime, or of phosphate of lime and ammonia. The second class includes such as consist of the phosphate of lime, and the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, which are soluble in acids. Those exhibit a laminated structure;