■ELEMENTS UK ANATOMY. 100 It often happens, that the testes and protruded portion of intestine adhere to each other, and, therefore, an attempt to return the protruded portion of intestine proves a cause of very acute pain. SECTION IX. OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. This gland is placed obliquely, in respect to the trunk of the body, between the intestinum rectum and bladder of urine, to both of which it is connected by cellular substance, and a ligamentous membrane, and beneath, or rather behind, the symphysis pubis. In shape it somewhat resembles a Spanish chesnut, and there is a depression in the middle of the broader extremity of it; hence it has been described by anatomists as consisting of two lateral lobes, the sides of which are rounded and cover- ed by portions of the levatores ani. The bladder of urine is connected with the anterior and upper part of this gland, for the greater part of its upper sur- face, which is somewhat concave; but this gland is convex, where it is connected with the intestinum rectum. When the intestinum rectum has been much distended, it incloses this gland to a certain extent. On account of the contiguitv of the rectum to the prostate gland, an enlargement of the prostate cannot fail to impede the free exit of the faeces. On removing the capsule, within which the prostate gland is inclosed, the body of the gland is found, a few hours after death, to be of a purple colour, uniform in its surface, and covered by somejat and cellular substance, in which a plexus of large veins is lodged, and also the smaller branches of an artery, which are derived from that artery which supplies the bladder of urine. The prostate gland, when pressed, feels firm, and not un- like to the unimpregnated womb, being considerably harder than any other gland of the human body, and communicating the same sensation, when divided by the knife, as the virgin uterus: hence the reason why this gland opposes so much re- sistance to the knife in performing the lateral operation of li- 2