ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 102 <c This was repealed on two other dogs with the same ef- fects. In one of them I took out the two hemispheres of the brain while the animal remained alive, and pressed strongly with my thumb upon the cerebellum ; the sensibility and pow- er of voluntary motion were instantly suspended, but the pulse and respiration remained ; and the animal continued in this state for more than fifteen minutes, till it seemed to be ex- hausted by the haemorrhage. “ The intention of these experiments was to ascertain whe- ther this alternate motion of the brain be essential to the life of the animal; and whether the involuntary motions of the animal would continue when any considerable compression was suddenly applied to the substance of the brain. “ Experiment 2.—I exposed the intercostal nerve and par- vagum of a dog, about an inch below the larynx, and cut out nearly an inch of their trunks on both sides ; immediately af- ter the excision the respiration became irregular, and the ani- mal made several violent struggles. I then closed the wound, and set the animal at liberty. He walked about as usual, and seemed to have no other inconvenience than a deep inspira- tion, with a slow and laborious expiration, which continued for several hours after. “ At seven the next evening I divided the spinal marrow between the second and third vertebra of the neck, in order to intercept all communication between the brain and thoracic viscera. The animal had some convulsive motions, and lost immediately all power of voluntary motion; but there was a feeble respiration, and a slight pulsation of the heart and arteries. About a minute after the division of the spinal marrow, I raised up the sternum, and exposed the thoracic viscera to view; the heart was still beating feebly. Immediately after 1 applied my bellows to the trachea, (which I had before detached from the larynx), and infated the lungs alternately as in re- spiration. The blood passed into the hft ventricle extremely florid, and the heart contracted with more force and frequency, and the pulsations of the arteries were distinctly felt in the thigh. This alternate inflation of the lungs was continued re-