18 elements op ANATOMY. Anterius, which is connected to the sternum and cartilages of the ribs of the left side of the chest; and hence the chest is divided into two cavities of unequal size. The right and left lungs are not exactly equal in length and breadth ; the right being broader than the left, and also shorter; for the right side of the diaphragm rises higher up into the thorax than the left. The pleurae which form the mediastinum anterius, are not in immediate contact with each other; for, at the upper part of the sternum, the thymus, and a few lymphatic glands, with cellular substance, are interposed between its component layers, and below, the heart, and the great bloodvessels included within the pericardium are into posed. The pleurae, after forming the mediastinum anterius, as above described, are again united, and afterwards separated, to form the Mediastinum Poster ms; a triangular space (impro- perly called cavity by most authors), in which the aorta, vena azygos, gullet, lymphatic glands, the eighth pair of nerves, the lower end of the trachea and bronchi, are contained. The pleurae are reflected from the posterior mediastinum to cover the heads of the ribs, the lymphatic vessels, nerves, and their ganglia. Upon the air being admitted into the chest through the pa- rietes, the lungs, which were in contact with their parietes, immediately collapse; and, from having collapsed in an equable manner, exhibit an exact miniature of the form of the chest. Between the lobes of the left lungs the capsule of the heart is placed, which is fixed not only to the anterior medi- astinum, but also to the middle cordiform tendon of the dia- phragm. From the preceding description of the course of the pleura, it follows, 1st, That the pleura, a serous membrane, like to the peri- tonaeum, lining the parietes of the chest, is the bond of union between the included bowels, to which it gives a partial cover- ing ; and, being constantly besmeared by a serous fluid, the included bowels do. not suffer from the effects of friction.