ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 384 The principal venous sinus has been named the Superior Longitudinal, the situation of which has been above described. It divides, opposite to the middle of the occipital bone, into the Lateral Sinuses. I he blood from the lateral ventricles, choroid plexuses, corpora striata, and septum lucidum, flows into the Torcular Herophili, and from it into the beginning of the lateral sinuses; and from the lateral sinuses into the in- ternal jugular veins. The veins of the dura mater accompany the arteries of that membrane, and terminate in the external or internal jugular vein ; and a few of the veins open into the sinuses of the brain. The terminations of the small veins in the sinuses are not directed backwards and downwards, towards the heart, but are turned upwards and forwards; hence, should the blood be pushed backwards from the veins of the neck into the sinuses, the sides of the small veins, from their oblique pas- sage through the dura mater, are compressed and shut, before their blood reaches their open mouths within the sinuses. Hence, even although the blood should regurgitate from the jugular veins, the smaller veins of the brain cannot be dis- tended ; and even a small part of an injection thrown into the sinuses, does not find its way into the smaller veins of the brain and cerebellum. Hence the pressure acts like a ligature upon a vein ; so that the flow from the small veins into the sinuses is stopped or retarded only, until the pressure, on the jugular veins is removed. In short, the uses of the structure described are, lstf, That when, by a sudden or violent action of the muscles of expiration, or of the muscles of the head and neck, the blood is repelled in the cavae, or internal jugular veins, the impulse may not be communicated to the blood in the small and tender veins of the brain, which would endanger a rupture of these ; to confirm which, it may be observed, that, generally, a very small quantity only of any liquor injected into the sinuses enters the small veins of the brain and cerebellum. 2d, The dura mater investing the trunks of the veins of the brain and cerebellum evidently strengthens these, and prevents their being easily ruptured.