237 OF THE CAROTID ARTERIES. Of the Arteries of the Head and some of those of the Neck, There are four arteries which supply the head and neck, viz. the carotid and vertebral arteries, which frequently and freely communicate with each other, so that the functions of the brain may be continued, though one of the carotid arteries be obstructed, and though the vertebral arteries be awanting. Such a case occurred to that excellent anatomist the late Mr Wilson of London, where the patient had not suffered from any disorder as to the functions of the brain. The Common Carotid Arteries are of considerable size, and may readily be exposed by making a cut on the inner edge of the sterno-cleido muscle, and by drawing them to- wards the windpipe, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles; thus a chain of conglobate glands comes into view, and, by removing these, a tendinous sheath is exposed, in the front of which that nerve called the descendens noni is placed. This sheath contains the common carotid artery, the inter- nal jugular vein, and the par vagum of the eighth pair of nerves, which lies between the artery and the vein. It may be observed, that the common carotid arteries fre- quently communicate a pulsation to the conglobate glands which lie over it, which has sometimes led the surgeon to sup- pose his padent afflicted by aneurism of the carotid artery ; but on pulling to a side the glands, the pulsation ceases. The common carotids ascend in the neck, between the in- ternal jugular vein and the windpipe. There is a slight difference as to the size of the common carotid arteries. The right is rather the larger. At the lower part of the neck the space between the common carotid arteries is much less than in the upper part of the neck, where the pharynx, windpipe, and gullet intervene. The right carotid in its ascent covers the sympathetic and recurrent nerves, the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles. The common carotid artery generally divides, nearly on a level with the larynx, into two branches: as one of these is proper to the internal, and the other to the external parts.