446 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. petrosa of the temporal hone during infancy is not so hard as in after life. At the period of birth, children do not seem so much alive to the impressions of sound, as when they are two or three years of age. By means of the sense of hearing, we possess also all the ad- vantages of artificial language. • Quadrupeds hear much more acutely than we do, owing probably to the greater size, form, and greater use they make of the external ear, which being very moveable, may be rea- dily dii'ected towards the sounding body, in the same man- ner as the conical ear-trumpet (which enables those dull of hearing to enjoy society) catches the undulations of sound. These are accumulated and collected at its narrow extremity, which is deeply lodged within the external passage. In describing the Ear, it is proposed to divide that organ into the external and internal parts; which are separated from each other by the membrane of the drum. The external parts are,—the external cartilage of the ear, and the passage which leads from it inwards to the membrane of the drum, called the meatus auditorius externus. The external ear is somewhat of an oval figure; but it varies much in shape and size in different individuals, in the different sexes, and in different nations. It is somewhat in form like an egg, the larger extremity of which is uppermost. In some persons the cartilage of the external ear is much higher up than in others. Holbein has represented King Henry VIII, with his ears very high up; and, on the other hand, the ears of some savages have sometimes been dragged downwards by weights appended to them. The external ear is composed chiefly of thin and very elas- tic cartilage, to which is appended a soft organ called the Lobe of the ear, which consists chiefly of fat, cellular membrane, and tendon. The cartilage of the ear has several risings and depressions upon it. The outermost fold, which describes nearly a semi- circle, has been called by anatomists the helix, within which, there is an inner ridge of cartilage, called the mitihelix, which