ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 14 is placed. This smaller muscle, also, is fixed into the cen- tral corcliform tendon. The larger and smaller diaphragm are powerful muscles in respiration, and several other actions. During inspiration, the capacity of the thorax is increased in three different directions. By the descent of the lateral muscular portions of the diaphragm, and by the ascent of the ribs, which are placed obliquely in respect to the spine, the thorax is rendered longer: By the ribs being thrust out- wards during their ascent, the transverse diameter of the chest is increased; and, in consequence of the breast-bone be- ing thrust forwards during the elevation of the ribs, the tho- rax is rendered deeper, and the distance between the breast- bone and vertebras becomes Greater. The effect of the contraction of the diaphragm and inter- costal muscles being understood, it is easy to see what hap- pens during expiration. After a short space, we grow un- easy from the distention of the lungs, and expiration becomes necessary. But when we expire we act with less muscular power, the elasticity of the cartilages of the ribs assisting very greatly in replacing them. When we lie in a horizontal posture, as soon as we cease from acting with the diaphragm, the very weight of the ab- dominal viscera, distended with rarified air, does somewhat to replace the diaphragm. In short, expiration is performed chiefly by the elastic re- action of the cartilages of the ribs, which had been twisted and elevated during inspiration, and by the abdominal muscles. When the diaphragm descends, it pushes outwards the bowels of the abdomen, and, as soon as the diaphragm is re- laxed, we push in the abdominal contents, and replace the diaphragm by that means; and as the external and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen are connected to the edges of the ribs, these are drawn down at the same time. Some other muscles assist in respiration, as the triangula- ris sterni, which serves to pull down the ribs ; and we find at the roots of the ribs two serrati muscles, one at the upper part, serving to raise and fix the ribs, and the other at the