354 INNERVATION. [chap. xi. There are many instances on record in which blindness was coin- cident with pathological alteration of structure in one or both quadri- geminal tubercles. In some of the cases where the lesion extended to parts seated beneath the tubercles, disturbed movements were observed, as in the experiments above related. We are ignorant of the object of the extensive connexions of the optic tracts with the tuber cinereum, the crura cerebri, and the corpora geniculata ; but these points are highly worthy of future inquiry, especially with reference to the office of these last-named bodies, which is at present involved in much obscurity. Many of the fibres of the optic tracts are undoubtedly commissural between the corresponding points of opposite sides, and exist when those which form the optic nerves are deficient. We see, then, in the quadrigeminal tubercles, centres, which, what- ever other functions they may perform, have a sufficiently obvious relation to the optic nerves, the eye, and the sense of vision. This is clearly indicated by anatomical facts, by the results of experi- ment, and by the phenomena of disease. These bodies may, therefore, be justly reckoned as special ganglia of vision ; and we are led to seek for similar centres in connexion with the other senses. The olfactory processes seem very probably to perform a similar office in reference to the sense of smell. Their structure, their rela- tion to the olfactory nerves, and their direct proportion of bulk to that of these nerves, and to the developement of the olfactory appa- ratus, place this question beyond all doubt. It is not so easy to determine the special ganglia of hearing; but the olivary bodies, or the small lobules connected with the crura cerebelli called by lied the flocks, may be referred to as bearing a sufficient close anatomical relation to the auditory nerve to justify our regarding either of them as well calculated to perform this function. And, with respect to touch, the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal and the fifth nerves may perhaps be considered in the same light; for this sense being diffused so universally, in various degrees, over the whole sur- face of the body, and being seated in a great number of different nerves, would need ganglia in connexion with all those nerves which are adapted to the reception of tactile impressions. The analogous sense of taste has its ganglia in those of the glosso-pharyngeal and the fifth.* * It may be urged against this conjecture respecting the functions of the ganglia of the spinal nerves and the fifth, that the analogy between these bodies and the quadrigeminal tubercles is incomplete, inasmuch as the optic nerves are probably implanted in the latter, but the nerves of touch merely pass through the former.