PHRENOLOGY. 367 CHAP. XI.J the mind, before the physiologist can venture to assign to each its local habitation. The empirical method, by which Gall first fixed upon certain parts of the brain as the seat of certain faculties, is exposed to this serious fallacy, that a part on the surface of the brain may appear largely developed, by reason of the large size of some subjacent or neighbouring part. We have already shewn how this may be the case with reference to the cerebellum, and that a thick neck and large occipital region may, and probably do, indicate a large mesocephale more frequently than a large cerebellum. At the same time we think that all observation, both in man and in the lower animals, proves that the energy of any nervous centre always bears a direct proportion to its bulk, whe- ther absolute or relative ; and that the phrenologists do not err in attaching great and primary importance to the size of those parts with which they associate certain faculties: while the atten- tion which recent writers of that school have paid to the tempera- ments of the individuals under examination, is a proof of their ad- mission that the quality of the nervous matter constitutes a highly important element in the developement of nervous power.* We have seen that the convoluted vesicular surface, and the fibres of the centrum ovale, are the seat of those physical changes which accompany, and are necessary to, intellectual action. A large number of these fibres is commissural, but the greatest proportion of them serves to establish a communication between the centre of intellectual action, and the centres of volition and sensation. Through the connexion with the former the intellect may prompt or excite the will; and the will, on the other hand, may control, direct, or apply the powers of the intellect. The faculty of Atten- tion, and, therefore, in a certain degree, the power of Memory, are dependent on the influence of the centre of volition upon the centre of intellectual action. Every one is sensible of a power which he possesses of fixing his attention on any given subject, as distinct as that by which he can contract any particular muscle. Again, the association of the intellectual centre with that of sensa- tion is necessary to ensure the full perception of sensitive impres- sions. The experience of each individual can supply him with numberless instances in which, while the mind was employed upon some other object of interest, an impression was made upon some one of the organs of sense, and indistinctly felt, but not fully per- * Cttrus has lately propounded a new Crnnioscopy, founded upon the tripartite composition of the cranium, which bids fair to rival the system of Gall. See a Lecture in bond. Med. Gazette, vol. xxxiv. translated by Dr. Freund.