SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. CHAP. X.] 251 collect the blood from all parts of the cranium. These canals, sinuses of the dura mater, receive likewise the venous blood of the brain. The largest sinuses are the superior longitudinal and the lateral sinuses. The former extends along the convex edge of the falx cerebri, com- mencing very small by receiving veins from the ethmoid and frontal bones, and terminates in a reservoir common to it and other sinuses at the internal occipital protuberance (torcu/ar Jferophili). It thus serves to collect blood from the superior and lateral parts of the dura mater, from the vault of the cranium, and from the hemi- spheres of the brain ; the veins of the latter entering it obliquely forwards. The lateral sinuses are lodged in tortuous furrows, which mark the occipital, the parietal, and the temporal bones. They are two in number, and extend on each side from the torcular Herophili to the jugular foramen, where they are continued into the internal jugular veins. These sinuses serve not only to carry into the jugular veins all the blood which is poured into the tor- cular, but likewise to receive blood from the lateral and posterior parts of the dura mater and cranium, from the inferior surface of the posterior lobes of the brain, and from the cerebellum. A short sinus, also of considerable width, is lodged in the tentorium cerebelli. This is the straight sinus; it passes from before back- wards, occupying about the middle of the vault of the tentorium, and opening behind into the torcular. It receives blood from the in- terior of the brain by two largo veins, the tenet magnet Galeni. The cavernous sinuses, two in number, lie one on each side of the sella Turcica, from which the internal carotid arteries separate them. Their irregular shape is rather that of reservoirs than of canals. The y receive the ophthalmic veins from the orbit, as well as nume- rous small veins from the cranial bones, the dura mater, and the anterior and middle lobes of the brain. Other small sinuses are met with which serve chiefly to establish a communication between those above-mentioned, while at the same time they receive some blood from the neighbouring textures. The petrosal minuses, two on each side, superior and inferior, pass between the cavernous and lateral sinuses : the transverse sinus runs between the petrosal and cavernous sinuses of opposite sides; and the cir- cular or coronary sinus, while it receives blood from the pituitary body and from tin* sphenoid bone, connects together the cavernous sinuses in front, and thus completes the venous circle around the sella Turcica. We see, in this arrangement of venous canals, a beautiful provi- sion against the effects of undue venous congestion within the era-