222 INNERVATION. [chap. vui. | regards the auditory nerve, there are also some grounds for the i statement that the vesicles of gray matter are deposited at its peri- < pheral expansion in the internal ear.* Of the Ganglionic or Sympathetic Nerves.—The composition of these nerves is essentially similar to that of the cerebro-spinal I nerves. They consist of a scries of nerve-fibres bound together by areolar tissue which forms their neurilemma. This sheath is, how- ever, denser than in the cerebro-spinal nerves, so that the nerve- i fibres are more difficult of separation, and the fasciculated character is not so obvious. It consists almost entirely of white fibrous tissue longitudinally disposed, which are crossed by some fine circular fibres of yellow tissue, surrounding the nerves at various distances from each other. When a nerve is torn up by needles, and treated by acetic acid, numerous small oval cell-nuclei are seen lying in and among the fibres, with their long axes parallel to the latter. The sympathetic nerves contain the fibres of both kinds, the tubular and the gelatinous, in very variable quantity in different nerves. Thus, the former are nume- rous in the ramifications of the solar plexus and in the cardiac nerves ; and the lat- ter almost exclusively com- pose one of the fascicles hv which the sympathetic com- municates with the spinal nerves (fig. 61, e) : they are also numerous, while the tu- bular fibres are few, in the sympathetic cord in the neck. In some nerves, the tubular fibres are quite on the sur- face ; and in others, they are enclosed in the axis of the nervous trunk. It is pro- bable that the same change Roots of a dorsal spinal nerve, and its union with - . ,, ei ,pS sympathetic:—e, c. Anterior fissure of the spinal cord, ot plaCO between 1110 ULHC «. Anterior root, p Posterior root, with its ganglion. 1 ... , tlint Anterior branch, p'. Posterior branch, s. Sympathetic. OCCUPS 111 tlieSe nerves RS U* 0 e. Its double junction with the anterior branch of the . . . , • il.p spinal nerve by a white and a gray filament. which WO have llOtlCetl lit W* * Sec further on these points the chapters on Smell, Vision, and Hearing. Fig. fii. r