[chap. XI. 376 INNERVATION. circuit, if the current pass from the nerve to the leg; but if it pass from the leg Jto the nerve, contraction will take place on opening the circuit.* 1. Matteucci’s experiments upon the relative conducting power of animal sub- stances were founded upon alaw of derived currents. When a liquid, or any other body, is traversed by an electric current, and the plates of the galvanometer are plunged into it, there are immediate indications of a derived current, so directed in the galvano- meter that the point at which it enters the coil of the galvanometer corresponds to the positive pole of the current which traverses the liquid. The derived current is always greater, as the plates of the galvanometer, plunged in the liquid, are more distant from each other. If a current be made to traverse different substances, which correspond as nearly as possible as regards shape, bulk, etc., the derived current from each will be exactly in the inverse ratio of the conducting power of the substance traversed. Pieces of nerve, brain, and muscle, from a rabbit just killed, were selected for the comparative experiments: these were cut so as to correspond as nearly as pos- sible in point of size and shape, and disposed as a chain on an insulating plane. Platinum wires fixed by sealing-wax to two pieces of cork, which were held apart at a certain distance by a rod of glass which transfixed each of them, were solder- ed to the wires of the galvanometer, the platinum wires having been previously varnished to within a very short distance of their extremities. A current from twelve cells of a constant battery was now passed through the chain of animal sub- stances. The platinum wires, held always at the same distance from each other, were successively brought into contact with brain, nerve, and muscle, and the de- viation of the needle resulting from the derived current in each case was carefully noted. The derived current from nervous matter was always greater than that from muscle ; that from brain greater than that from nerve, denoting a less con- ducting power in nervous matter than in muscle—in brain than in nerve. By in- creasing the distance between the platinum wires, a derived current may be obtain- ed from muscle equal to that obtained from brain; and Matteucci, from this latter experiment, infers that the conducting power of muscle may be taken as four times greater than that of brain or nerve. Another interesting experiment confirmed the results obtained from those just detailed. The current was made to traverse the whole trunk of a rabbit just killed and flayed; and the platinum wires, held at a constant distance, were applied successively to different parts, muscles, nerves, etc.: the cuircnt was found to tra- verse all parts, with such difference as was due to the different power of conduc- tion of the different substances; that is, so as to yield a derived current of less in- tensity from muscle than from nerve, or from nerve than from brain. 2. To demonstrate the existence of an electric current in the muscles of ani- mals recently killed or living, the following experiments have been adopted by Matteucci. If a deep wound be made in a muscle of any living animal, and the nerve of the galvanoscopic frog be introduced into it, so that the nerve shall touch the cut sur- face at one point, and the outer surface of the muscle at the other, contractions in- stantly take place on completing the circuit. It is evident that this effect is due to * Those who propose to employ the galvanometer in physiological experiments should carefully observe the precautions assigned by Matteucci, in the third chapter of his book, to guard against erroneous inferences.