INNERVATION. 292 CHAP. X. ting, for the present, that the hemispheres are the common centre of sensitive impressions, it is easy to understand how nervous power, excited by the impulse of sound upon the ear, for example, may be propagated along the auditory nerves to the olivary columns in the fourth ventricle, and thence to the optic thalami, in which are found many fibres which are continuous with those of the hemi- spheres, and capable of propagating the nervous force to the convolutions. To this it may, however, be objected, that perfect sensation is frequently coexistent with a cerebral lesion, sufficient to produce very complete paralysis of motion, and that an enduring paralysis of sensation is a rare accompaniment of cerebral disease. But such facts do not so much militate against these views, as they serve to denote that the channels of sensation are more numerous than those of motion; and that, if one route be interrupted, another is easily opened. It may be, that the commissures are valuable in- struments for this purpose ; and it is highly worthy of notice, that no segment of the cerebrum has so many commissures either with the opposite or its own side, as the optic thalamus. It should be borne in mind that the foregoing remarks are partly conjectural, and that they are introduced rather as a convenient form of illustration, than as implying more than a probability of their general correctness and accordance with the best established view's. Of the Circulation in the Brain.—An organ of such great size, of such high vital endowments, so active, and which exerts so consi- derable an influence upon all other parts of the body, must necessa- rily require a large supply of the vital fluid. Hence we find that the blood-vessels of the brain are numerous and capacious. Four large arteries carry blood to it; namely, the tw'o internal carotids, and the t wo vertebrals. Each carotid penetrates the cranium at the foramen on the side of the sella Turcica, and almost immediately divides into three branches, the anterior and the middle cerebral arteries, and the posterior communicating artery. The anterior cerebral arteries supply the inner sides of the ante- rior lobes of the brain : they ascend through the great longitudinal fissure, and pass along the upper surface of the corpus callosum, giving off branches to the inner convolutions of both hemispheres of the brain. These arteries anastomose with each other just be- neath the anterior margin of the corpus callosum by a transverse branch, called the anterior communicating artery. The middle cerebral arteries, the largest branches of the carotids, pass outwards