■ .HAP. i.] VITAL PROPERTIES. 55 lilirect exorcise of vital force, the tissues are not the less dependent m healthy vital action for the preservation of their peculiar pro- ■ »erties in a state of integrity. Whoever will compare the compact figure of a vigorous healthy man, accustomed to field-sports and .active exercises, with the relaxed, feeble, half-dislocated limbs of an 11-nourished, hysterical woman, will readily perceive how great an influence healthy nutrition must exert in preserving and improving he physical properties of the tissues. The vital properties manifest themselves by a change which occurs in the molecules of certain tissues, as the result of a stimulus applied. The change, thus produced, may be evident trrom a visible alteration in the tissue stimulated ; or it may shew ktaelf through a secondary influence exerted upon some other (texture or organ, with which the stimulated tissue may be in (•connexion. These properties exist in two tissues, namely, in muscle and in nerve. A muscle, when stimulated, shortens itself; and, therefore, it is said to possess the property of contractility. This power of ■ contracting, in obedience to a stimulus, is characteristic of muscle, i and probably occurs in no other kind of animal texture. The ■stimulus may be direct irritation by mechanical means, or by gal- hvanism, or by some chemical substance; but the natural one, during life, is propagated by the nerves. In nerve, the vital changes are unaccompanied by any altera- tion in the tissue itself, which is appreciable by our senses. The excitation or irritation of the nerve may lie manifested in three ways: first, bv its inducing the contraction of the muscle which it supplies; secondly, by its exciting contraction, in muscles which it does not supply, through a change wrought in the nervous centre ; thirdly, by its exciting a sensation. The same stimuli, which we have mentioned as capable of exciting muscular con- traction, will produce these effects in nerves; and the will, and other emotions of the mind, are capable of stimulating nerves which are connected with the brain, and exciting action in the muscles to which they are distributed. That a nerve, when irritated, may excite a sensation, it is necessary that it shall be in connexion with the brain. The bodily ' feelings of pain or pleasure are thus produced, through the medium of what are called sensitive nerves, or nerves of common sensation ; and we say that the sensibility of any tissue is great or small, according as it is supplied with such nerves in more or less quantity. Tendon, in which probably few nerves exist, is a tissue of low