chap, m.] FIBROUS TISSUE. 71 IThev constitute one of the anatomical characters of an euarthrodial I or ball-and-socket joint, and are found in the only two perfect ex- amples of that form of articulation, namely, the shoulder and hip joints. B. Tendons.—Tendons serve to attach muscle to bone, or some other part of the sclerous system. W e may enumerate three > varieties of tendon, as regards form: 1. Funicular, e. fj. long ten- •dou of the biceps cubiti; 2. Fascicular, short tendon of the same muscle, and most of the tendons of the body; 3. Aponeurotic, ten- udinous expansions, sometimes of considerable extent, and very useful in protecting the walls of cavities. The tendons of the abdominal anuscles afford good examples of this variety. The tendons are for the most part implanted bv separate fascicles -into distinct depressions in the bones, and are also closely incor- .porated with the periosteum; so that in maceration, when the latter is separated, it becomes easy to remove the tendons. In ‘■some birds, whose tendons are black, the periosteum is black also ; -and in the human subject we may often see the tendinous fibres ‘continued on the surface of the periosteum, as a shining silvery .layer, following the primitive direction of the tendinous fibres, from ■which they were derived ; a marked example of this may be seen foil the sternum, in front of which the tendinous fibres of the oppo- site pectoral muscles meet and decussate, and thus form the super- ficial layer of the periosteum, covering that bone. The length of dho tendons is taautifally adapted to the quantity of contractile fibre rrequired to perform a certain movement ; thus, in the biceps cubiti, were the whole length between the scapula and radius occupied by muscular fibre, there would be a great waste of that contractile i-issue, as there would be much more than is wanted to produce the ' •equired motion ; tendon is, therefore, made to take the place of sfche superfluous muscle : in this way we may explain the differences n length of the tendons even in the same limb. C. Membranous.—In the form of an expanded membrane white d»rous tissue is used to cover, protect, and support various parts. 'Under such circumstances we often find that it not only forms an external covering to them, but that it sends in processes or septa, which separate certain subdivisions or smaller parts. Thus, the ■ascin lata of the thigh not only invests the muscles of the thigh, but sends in processes which pass down to the periosteum, and separate the several muscles from each other; and the dura mater t>f the cranium sends in processes by which certain portions of the •nccphalon are separated from one another.