[chap. xi. INNERVATION. 368 cCived. When the mind has become disengaged, the fact that an impression had been made is remembered, without any ability to recollect its precise nature. And in many lunatics the centre of intellectual action is so impaired as to destroy or greatly reduce the power of perception, whilst there is abundant evidence to shew that the affections of the organs of sense still make a sufficient impres- sion on the centre of sensation. In some cases, however, this centre likewise participates in the general hebetude. Perfect power of speech, that is, of expressing our thoughts in suitable language, depends upon the due relation between the centre of volition and that of intellectual action. The latter centre may have full power to frame the thought; but, unless it can prompt the will to a certain mode of sustained action, the organs of speech cannot be brought into play. A loss of the power of speech is frequently a precursor of more extensive derangement of sensation and motion. In some cases the intellect seems clear, but the patient is utterly unable to express his thoughts ; and in others there is more or less of mental confusion. The want of consent between the centre of intellectual action and of volition, is equally apparent in cases of this description, from the inability of the patients to commit their thoughts to writing. The hemispheres of the brain, as has been already stated, are insensible to pain from mechanical division or irritation ; in wounds of the cranium in the human subject, pieces of the brain which had protruded have been removed without the knowledge of the patient. Nevertheless, pain is felt in certain lesions of the brain, even when seated in the substance of the hemispheres, or in the optic thalami or corpora striata. This results from the morbid state affecting other parts with which nerves are connected, as the medulla oblongata; or in which nerves are distributed, as the membranes. The nearer a cerebral lesion is to the membranes or to the medulla oblongata, the more likely is it to excite pain. Headaches, of whatever nature, must be referred to irritation, either at their centres or at their periphery, of those nerves which are distributed in the dura mater, or in the scalp. The branches of the fifth pair, of the occipital nerve, and the auricular branch of the cervical plexus, are those most frequently affected. Certain sensations are referred to the head which may occur from a morbid state, or may be produced by changes of position in the body. Such are, vertigo, a sense of fullness, or of a weight in the head, a feeling of a tight cord round the head. These are, no doubt, truly subjective, arising from alterations in the distribution