CHAP. VIII •J THE NERVOUS CENTRES. 225 Ft a 6s. A until pirce of the otic fnmpUon of the •herp. tiightlr romprcwtl; .Iwwmir the of interlacement of the fibres thus takes place within the ganglion, ami in its interstices are lodged the nerve-vesi- cles enveloped by their proper sheaths. A great number of nerve-fibres may be traced through the ganglion, so that the emerging nerves may be re- garded as resulting from a new com- bination of the fibres that compose the nerves which entered the ganglion. These, however, are possibly not the only constituent fibres of the emerging nerves, for it has yet to be ascertained whether some fibres may not take their latcrUrrment <4 th<- internal fitw.. and . . . . . tin: Teakular matter.—(After Valin tin.) rise from the vesicular matter ot the gan- glion, and it is a not less interesting object of inquiry whether some of the eutering fibres may not terminate in it. That the nerve-tubes have an intimate connexion with the elements of the vesicular matter is apparent from the. fact that they lie in close apposition with them, and appear to indent their sheaths of nucle- ated corpuscles (fig. 57). Sometimes the sheath seems to taper off from the nerve-vesicles, und to become continuous with the nerve- tubes. It is a conjecture by no means devoid of probability, that the processes of the caudate vesicle may, after passing some way, be- come invested by the tubular membrane and by the white substance of Schwann, and we have seen some appearances to warrant this view (see fig. 56, c, «/.) Yet it should l>e stated, as opposed to this view, that in the gray matter of the cerebellum the caudate vesi- cles are so placed that their processes pass toward the free surface of the cortical layer, and not iuto the white matter. Besides the tubular fibres, the ganglia contain likewise gelatinous ones, which, however, are more abundant in the sympathetic than in the cerehro-spinal ganglia (fig. 58, p). These fibres are, doubtless, continuous with those of the same kind which may exist in the entering or emerging nerves. We may also add, that the vesi- cular matter does not appear to be confined to the interstices be- tween the fibres, but is likewise found at the surface of the gan- glia, lying in immediate contact with their investing tunic. In the brain and spinal cord, there is a greater separation of the vesicular and fibrous matter than in the ganglia. The former very complicated organ, indeed, consists of various masses which an' in ill essential points very similar to the ganglia in structure, and