339 CHxr. xi.] PIIYSICAL ACTIONS OF TIIE CORD. brain is the part primarily affected, the mental impulse is at the same time directed to that portion of the cord upon which the required action depends. In the developement of sensation the stimulus affects the posterior horns of the gray matter of the cord, which, from its commissural connexion with the brain, is in reality a part of the sensorium. When the power of mental' interference is removed, or kept under control, physical actions develope themselves; being effected through the same nerves as those which volition influences, or which sensi- tive impressions affect. The latter are, in such instances, the excitors of the former, no doubt through the vesicular matter in which they are implanted. These actions become most manifest when the connexion of the brain with the spinal cord has been severed; and they occur in the most marked way in those situations where the cutaneous nerves are so organized as readily to respond to the application of a stimulus applied to the surface, or they become universal when the cord is in a state of general excite- ment. The movements in locomotion and the maintenance of the various attitudes, are effected through the ordinary channels of the physical and volitional actions; and the posterior columns of the cord, by their influence on the vesicular matter of the segments in which the nerves are implanted, co-ordinate and hanuouize the com- plicated muscular actions of the limbs and the trunk under the control of that portion of the encephalon which probably is devoted to that purpose. This power of co-ordination is probably mental, nnd intimately connected with the rnuscidar sense. To conclude the discussion of the functions of the cord, we shall here enumerate the physical nervous actions of which it is the centre, remarking, at the same time, that we continue to use the term spinal cord in its ordinary sense, and that we reject the hypo- thesis of a true spinal cord, anatomically distinct from that which lias to do with mental nervous actions. We have already stated, that probably part of the muscular adjustments in locomotion are excited by the pressure against the soles of the feet. All involuntary movements of tlje muscles of the trunk or extremities, when excited by external stimuli, have their centre in the spinal cord. The sudden application of cold to the surface of the trunk or extremities frequently excites respiratory movements. 1 his may be attributed to cutaneous nerves affecting the gray matter ot the cord, and through this the intercostal ami phrenic nerves implanted in it.