THE JOINTS. 131 (’ll A I’. VI.] the adhesive inflammation as the serous are, which seems more to : be accounted for by the nature of their secretion, than by any dif- ference of their structure. The proneness of these membranes to the effusion of coagulable lymph seems to be due to the extreme tenuity of the layer of epithelium which separates the nutrient blood-vessels from the cavity of the serous membrane. The lymph effused becomes gradually converted into areolar tissue and vessels, usually constituting what are termed adhesions, but sometimes forming merely a thickened condition of the membrane. Of the Joints.— A joint, or articulation, may be defined to be the union of any two segments of an animal body, through the intervention of a structure or structures different from both. The most perfect and elaborate forms of the articulations are i hose which are seen in animals that possess a fully developed in- : ernal skeleton, and in none may they be studied with more advan- [ =.age than in man. In the human subject, and in the vertebrated ; mimals generally, we have, indeed, particular occasion to admire i hhe articulations as “ mirabiles commmsuras, et ad stabilitatem iptas et ad artus finiendosaccommodates, et ad motum, ct ad omnom •orporis actionem.” The textures which form the joints, are bone, cartilage, fibro- jsttrtilage, ligaments, synovial membrane. Bone constitutes the fundamental part of all joints; ligament variously modified is em- ployed in all as a bond of union ; but the three remaining textures re present chiefly in those joints which enjoy a free gliding notion. In addition to the structures already named as entering intrinsi- aliy into the formation of joints, we find that the tendons and lUscles, which lie in the immediate vicinity of or which surround | he joints, contribute much to their strength and security. In •ints of the hinge kind we generally see tin* anterior and posterior art-, protected more or less by the tendons of muscles, and even bv iiuscles themselves passing from one segment of a limb to another ; ml here it frequently happens that the tendon is bound down on he hones which form the member, by a fibrous expansion of great I ilength, lined by a synovial membrane of the same characters as 1-he articular, but adapted in its form to the osseo-fibrous canal in i *dii< h the tendon is placed, e. g. the tendons of the fingers. The ■jr-roteetion and strength afforded by muscles is particularly evinced the case of the shoulder-joint, where the capsular ligament is Mow ly embraced by four muscles, whose tendons become identified ■ *ith the fibrous capsule as they go to be inserted into the bone.