53 * Daniel)’* Chemistry. POROSITY.—ENDOSMOSE. IAP. I. ie water of the contained blood, which transudes into the sur- iounding areolar tissue, and gives rise to that dropsical effusion, hich is commonly called Anasarca. In the minute capillary ves- *ls, this property is always present in a state of health, and the .utrition of the surrounding tissues is effected by the exercise of . After death, the influence of porosity is favoured by the total iosence of motion in the fluids, and of vital change in the walls F the vessels; and, therefore, in the dead body, we find the rceolar tissue more or less loaded with water in all those places i which gravitation favoured its accumulation. The progress ot ^composition, by disintegrating the tissues, also favours the occur- '"Uce of transudation. It is probable that certain vital processes consist solely in transu- dation. In this way the watery part of the secretions doubtless scopes from the blood-vessels, into the canals of the secreting fygans ; and this is especially likely as regards the mechanism of •ie kidney, where the blood-vessels of the Malpighian bodies, re- duced to their minutest size, naked, and uiuissocisted with any tbher tissue, are most favourably placed for the occurrence of this Phenomenon; and the absorption of fluids brought in contact with Certain surfaces is explicable on the same principle. The process, which was first described bv Dutrochet, under the une Endosmose and Exosmose, is intimately connected with the torosity of animal tissues. It is a process, “ in which the mutual vitraetion of two liquids is called into action, one of which is more •ipable than the other of freely wetting a |K>rous solid which forms art of the combination.” * If an animal bladder, the cfeeum of a fowl, partially filled with ‘Tup, and tied tightly at its open end with a string, be suspended I a vessel of water, it w ill soon be found distended almost to ursting, in consequence of a considerable quantity of the water ■Jiving passed through the walls into the cavity of the bladder ’‘Endotniottfi), If the exterior fluid be examined, a jKirtion of the vrup will be found to have passed out of the bladder (jExoamote). h the phenomenon may be illustrated by the following experi- lent :—Take a funnel, and tic over its broad end (of three or four •ches’ diameter) a piece of bladder, invert it, and fill it with spirits t wine, and fit to its small end a glass tube, three or four feet in Htgth, and then place it in a vessel of water. In a short time the ‘liter will be observed to rise in the tube, and it will ultimately