CHAPTER IV. PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, CONTINUED. OF CARTILAGE AND FIBRO-CARTILAGE. Cartilage is extensively used in the animal frame, and is one of the simplest of the textures. Like the adipose tissue, it approaches very closely in its intimate structure to the cellular tissue of vegetables. In the developement of the embryo, it is one of the first tissues to appear as a distinct structure, and it constitutes the internal skeleton in its earliest condition in the animal scale. The rudiment- ary skeleton of the cephalopoda consists of it; and in one class of fishes (hence termed cartilaginous, as the shark, ray, lamprey) the skeleton is entirely composed of it. In man, and the higher animals, cartilage is employed tempora- rily, as a nidus for hone, in the early stages of life, and is then called temporary cartilage. This, at a certain period, begins to ossify, and finally disappears by being converted into hone. At one time, the greatest part, if not the whole, of the skeleton is cartila- ginous ; and for a considerable period after birth the extremities of the long bones are chiefly composed of cartilage, and the larger pro- cesses are connected to the shaft of the bone by this substance. For other purposes, however, a cartilage is employed which is not prone to ossify, viz. permanent cartilage, and this is used either in joints (articular cartilage), or in the walls of cavities (membrani- form cartilage). The articular variety is either disposed as a thin layer between two articular surfaces, and equally adherent to both, as in the synarthrodial joints (the cranial sutures, the sacro-iliac symphyses, &c.); or it forms an encrustation upon the articular ends of the bones entering into the composition of diarthrodial joints; thus, the extremities of the femur, tibia, the arm-bones, &c. are all coated with a layer of cartilage, moulded to the shape of the articular surfaces. The membraniform cartilages are not employed in connexion with the locomotive mechanism, but serve to guard the orifices of canals or passages, or to form tubes, that require to be kept permanently open; the elasticity of the material effecting this