LOCOMOTION. [chap. iv. 90 Fig. 14. edge, the cell-membrane projecting: but it is not easy to extract a cell entire, apparently on account of the delicacy of its texture, and the density of the surrounding mass. In temporary cartilage the cells are very numerous, and situated at nearly equal distances apart in the intercellular substance, which is not abundant. The cells vary in shape and size, but most are round or oval. Their nuclei are for the most part minutely granu- lar ; the granules being, in some specimens, at a distance from one another. When ossification begins, the cells, which hitherto were scattered without definite arrangement, become disposed in clusters or rows, the ends of which are directed towards the ossifying part. These and other changes will be described in the chapter on bone. In articular cartilage the cells are oval or roundish, often dis- posed in small sets of 2, 3, or 4 irregularly disseminated through a nearly homogeneous matrix, which is more abundant than in the last-named variety; fig. 14, a. The cells measure from ttW to of an inch. The nuclei are for the most part small. In the interior part of the carti- lages of encrustation we usually find the cells assuming more or less of a linear direction, and pointing towards the surface; fig. 14, b. This arrangement is probably connected with a corresponding peculiarity of texture of the intercellular substance, but which it is more difficult to distinguish ; for these specimens have a disposition to fracture in a regular manner along planes vertical to the surface, and the broken surface is striated in the same direction. Near its deep or attached surface, articular cartilage blends gradually with the bone it invests. The cells in the neighbourhood, as well as their nuclei, are surrounded with a sprinkling of fine opaque granules, which seem to be a rudi- mentary deposit of bone. The true bone dips unevenly into the substance of the cartilage. A pavement of nucleated epithelial particles has been described by Henle to exist on the tree surface of articular cartilage. In the foetus this may be readily seen; but in the adult we have often failed to detect it, even in perfectly fresh specimens, and notwith- standing great care. An irregularity of surface, like that repre- Articular cartilage, from tlxe head of the Humerus :—Vertical sections: a. Section close to the surface, a. B. Section far in the interior.—Magnified 320 dia- meters.