356 INNERVATION. [chap. XI. excitement of the same parts must be attributed to the different nature of the mental stimulus. As the passing thought—the change wrought during the exercise of the intellect—may excite the centre of emotion, so this latter may exert its influence upon the general tenor of the mind, and give to all our thoughts the tinge of mirth or sadness, of hope or despon- dency, as one or the other may prevail. We say of one man, that he is constitutionally morose; of a second, that he is naturally gay and mirthful; and of a third, that he is a nervous man, and that he is not likely to be otherwise. One man allows his feelings to hurry him on to actions which his intellect condemns; whilst another has no difficulty in keeping all his feelings in entire subjection to his judgment. “ Of two individuals with differently constituted minds,” remarks Dr. Carpenter, “ one shall judge of everything through the medium of a gloomy morose temper, which, like a darkened glass, represents to his judgment the whole world in league to injure him ; and all his determinations, being based upon this erroneous view, exhibit the indications of it in his actions, which are themselves, nevertheless, of an entirely voluntary character. On the other hand, a person of. a cheerful, benevolent disposition, looks at the world around as through a Claude-Lorraine glass, seeing everything in its brightest and sunniest aspect, and, with intellectual faculties precisely similar to those of the former individual, he will come to opposite conclusions; because the materials which form the basis of his judgment are submitted to it in a very different form.” Such examples abundantly illustrate the important share which the emo- tions take in the formation and developement of character, and how all things presented to the mind through the senses may take their hue from the prevailing state of the feelings. If a certain part of the brain be associated with emotion, it is plain that that part must be in intimate connexion with the seat of change in the operations of the intellect, in order that each may affect the other; that the former may prompt the latter, or the latter excite or hold in check the former. And this association of the emotions with a certain portion of the brain explains the influence of natural temperament, and of varying states of the physical health, upon the moral and intellectual condition of individuals. We may gather from it how necessary it is to a well-regulated mind that we should attend not to mental culture only, but to the vigour and health of the body also; that to ensure the full developement of the mens sana we must secure the possession of the corpus sanum. Certain diseases are evidently associated with disturbed or excited