[chap. XV. 43 G INNERVATION. In their compound nature they present much resemblance to the intestinal villi of the rhinoceros and other large animals. We have further ascertained the existence of similar minute papillae, inter- spersed very unequally among the compound forms, as well as occu- pying much of the surface behind the circumvallate variety, where the compound forms do not exist. These minute papillae seem to have hitherto escaped detection, in consequence of their being com- pletely buried and concealed under the common sheet of epithelium. If we examine the mucous mem- brane immediately in front of the epiglottis, we find it perfectly smooth, almost transparent, and supplied by capillary vessels spread uniformly under the surface, and Tongue, seen on its upper surface:—a. One of the circumvallate papilla*, b. One of the fungiform papilla;. Numbers of the conical papillie are seen about d, and elsewhere, e. Glottis, epiglottis, and veins ; here tile papillary tissue IS glosso-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane.— * 1 J From sa-mmering. undeveloped. F urtlier forwards, however, where the membrane still seems smooth, the plexus of arteries beneath it sends upwards, at pretty regular intervals, a series of twigs, each of which terminates in one or two capillary loops, sometimes dilated in the bend, from which a small vein returns the blood to the submucous venous plexus. These loops correspond to those of the simple papilla; of the skin, p. 411 ; they supply simple papilla;, buried under a common investment of scaly epithelium, that differs from the cuticle only in its greater tenuity and moist- ness. On the removal of this delicate epithelium by maceration, the papilla; stand out free from the membrane, and are seen to consist of an envelope of basement membrane (p. 404), enclosing a paren- chyma obscurely granular, with the capillary loop already mentioned. After much care, we have not been able to see nervous tubules within them ; but they must exist under some important modification, which most probably consists in the absence of their characteristic white sub- stance of Schwann. These simple papillae are represented in fig. i)5. connected with simple plane sub- mucous plexuses of arteries and