niAP. XT.] MATTEUGCl’8 ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL RESEARCHES. 377 an electric current developed by the muscle, because it is necessary that the nerve should touch the muscle at two points ; and because, if the nerve be brought into similar contact with two points of any other body, no such effect will follow. To guard against the fallacy tlait might arise from contact with the blood, Matteucci shews, that if a nerve be brought into contact with a layer of blood at two differ- ent points, no evidence of an electric current will appear. In this, and all ex- periments with the galvanoscopic frog, it is to be remembered that the frog’s leg must be held in the glass tube to insure perfect insulation. The experiment is al- ways followed by the same results, whatever be the muscle or the animal touched, or even if muscles separated from the animal he operated on. The indications of the electric current remain longest in those animals in which muscular contrac- tility lasts longest; in cold-blooded animals, such as fish and reptiles, Matteucci has seen the phenomena last for many hours. Tire current is sufficient to excite the nerve of a warm-blooded aninml. The thighs of a rabbit having been removed, a long portion of the crural nerve was dissected out, and the muscles exposed. With a glass tube the nerve was raised and brought to touch the muscles at two points, when the whole limb was thrown into contraction. So far distinct evidence was afforded by the animal galvanometer (so to speak) of the existence of a muscular current. When the frog’s leg becomes a little weak, it indicates the direction of the current to be from the interior to the sur- face of the muscle. In order to demonstrate the influence of this current on the galvanometer, a par- ticular arrangement is necessary. Several small cup-like cavities are scooped out in a piece of wood, twelve inches square, and an inch and a half thick. The wood and its little cavities are coated over with a layer of varnish, or small capsules sunk into the wood may be employ- ed. Five or six frogs are prepared, by flaying the jarsterior extremities, and the legs are separated by disarticulating them at the knee; which must be done with care, in order not to wound the mass of crural muscles. Next, each thigh is divided at its middle, and thus a certain number of conical masses (the lower halves of the thighs) are obtained. These must be arranged on the board in a chain. One half-thigh is placed at the edge of one of the cavities, with its apex to the cavity, and the cut surface outwards ; and the chain is completed by arrang- ing the others in a semicircle, so that the apex of one freely touches the cut snrface of the other, and the piece which forms the opposite extreme of the series ought to touch the edge of another of the cavities by its cut surface. Thus a pile is formed, of which one of the extremities is the interior of the muscle, and the other its external surface. The board, with the muscular pile arranged upon it in this way, is now brought to the galvanometer, the platinum poles of which, if it be a very sensible one, have been some time placed in distilled water; or, if not very sen- sible, in a saline solution. The next step of the experiment is w ith a pipette, to pour into the cavities with which the extremes of the pile are connected, either water or some of the saline solution, according as the plates of the galvanometer have been immersed in either of those fiuidp. The platinum poles of the gulvnnometer are now withdrawn from the fluid in which they had been immersed, and introduced into the fluid of either of the cavi- ties ; if no deviation of the needle follow this, they are at the same time plunged into the two extreme cavities of the pile, so os to close the circuit. A deviation