294 INNERVATION. [chap. x. of the brain. This takes place not only between the smaller rami- fications, but likewise between the primary trunks. The former is evident all over the surface of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The latter constitutes the well-known circle of Willis. This ana- stomosis encloses a space, somewhat of an oval figure, within which are found the optic nerves, the tuber cinereum, the infundibulum, the corpora mamillaria, and the interpeduncular space. The anterior communicating artery, between the anterior cerebral arte- ries, completes the circle in front. The lateral portion of the circle is formed by the posterior communicating artery, and it is com- pleted behind by the bifurcation of the basilar into the two poste- rior cerebral arteries. Thus, a stoppage in either carotid, or in either vertebral, would speedily be remedied. The coalescence of the vertebrals to form the basilar, affords considerable security to the brain against an impediment in one vertebral ; and, should the basilar be the seat of obstacle, the anastomoses of the inferior cere- bellar arteries with the superior ones would ensure a sufficient supply of blood to that organ. If either or both carotids be stop- ped up, the posterior communicating arteries will supply a consi- derable quantity of blood to the intracranial portions of them; or, if one carotid be interrupted, the anterior communicating branch will be called into requisition to supply blood from the opposite side. Obstruction to the circulation in both carotids and both vcrte- brals is productive of a complete cessation of cerebral action, and death immediately ensues, unless the circulation can be quickly restored. This was proved clearly by Sir A. Cooper’s experi- ments on rabbits. The circulation may, however, be interrupted in both carotids, or in both vertebrals, without permanent bad effect; or in one carotid or one vertebral, provided the condition of the remaining vessels be such as not to impede the circulation in them. In cases where the neighbouring anastomotic branches are not sufficient to restore the circulation to a part from which it has been cut off by the obliteration of its proper vessel, the cerebral substance of that region is apt to experience a peculiar form of softening or wasting, which is distinguished by the absence of any discoloration by the effusion of blood, and of any new matter. The four great channels of sanguineous supply to the brain are continued up straight from the aorta itself, or from an early stage of the subclavian. The contained columns are propelled very directly towards the base of the brain, through wide canals. Were such columns to strike directly upon the base of the brain, there can be no doubt it would suffer materially. Considerable