85 CHAP. III.] ADIPOSE TISSUE AND FAT. and omentum, in the appendices epiploicse, on the heart, in the • subcutaneous layer of areolar tissue, but especially that of the abdomen, and of the mammary region, and in the cancelli and canals of the bones, forming the medulla. It never occurs in the areolar tissue of the scrotum and peni», or of the nymphse, nor in that between the rectum and bladder, nor along the median line beneath the skin, nor in sundry other situations. Fat is found in the liver, and in the brain and nerves, and occa- sionally in other organs. In these organs it is not enclosed in vesi- cles of adipose membrane, but in the elementary parts of the tissues themselves, as in the epithelium cells of the liver, and in the tubes and globules of the nervous substance. Dmelopemmt of Adipose Tissue. — The vesicles ■of the adipose tissue are originally furnished with ■nuclei, with a central granule or nucleolus. The i nucleus is situated on the inner surface of the eell- stnembrane, or, if this be thick, in its substance. pThe nucleus is speedily absorbed, and never after- wards appears. Thus it is probable that the ori- A u> lhrw lhr ginal developement-eell assumes a permanent form • in the adipose vesicle. bmw d- 1’be nuciru». Formation of Fat.—Many facts prove that the elements of fat are derived from the blood. All the most recent analyses of that fluid •assign to it a certain proportion of both the crystallizable and the oily portion of the fat; according to Lecanu, about four parts in a thousand. In some instances, the fatty matter accumulates in the blood ; cases of which have been recorded by Morgagni, Ilevv- 'son, Marcet, Traill, and Babington. In such cases the serum is opaque and nearly as white as milk, and, on standing a short time, a film forms on the surface like cream. On the addition of ether, the creamy pellicle is dissolved, and the serum loses its opacity. ■M. Blainville relates, that, in dissecting the last elephant which died at the Jardin des Plantes, he happened to wound the jugular vein, and the next morning he found that the stream of blood, which flowed from the vein, had deposited on each side a consider- able quantity of a fine fatty matter, which on analysis he found to «rhave exactly the composition of ordinary fat. From what source is this fatty material furnished to the blood? From fatty matters introduced into the system in the food, whether in animal or vegetable substances; probably, also, from those parts of the food, which, in composition, resemble fat most nearly, such as the non-nitrogenised articles of diet, starch, gum, sugar, alcohol,