42 GELATINE.—CHONDRINE. CHAP. i. cuticle and hairs by soaking in lime-water, are tanned by sub- mitting them to the action of infusion of oak-bark, the strength of which is gradually increased until a complete combination has taken place. An insoluble compound is thus formed, capable of resisting putrefaction. According to Mulder, gelatine contains in one hundred parts, Nitrogen . Carbon Hydrogen . Oxygen 18-350 50-048 6-477 25-125 100-000 to which may be added some inorganic material, chiefly phosphate of lime. Dr. Prout remarks, that gelatine in animals may be said to be the counterpart of the saccharine principles of plants; it being dis- tinguished from all other animal substances by its ready conver- tibility into a sort of sugar, by a process similar to that by which starch may be so converted. If a solution of gelatine in concen- trated sulphuric acid be diluted with water and boiled for some time, gelatine-sugar may be obtained from it, on saturating with chalk. Again, by boiling gelatine in a concentrated solution of caustic alkali, it is separated into leucine and gelatine-sugar, or glyclcoll. The latter product crystallizes in pretty large rhomboidal prisms; is colourless, inodorous, and very sweet.* It differs from sugar, however, in the important particular, that it contains nitro- gen ; and Mulder assigns to it the following formula, C8 H- N2 Os + 2 HO. Proteine cannot be obtained from gelatine ; but it seems reason- able to infer, that it or its compounds must have contributed to the formation of the latter substance, for, in the egg, the gelatine of the chick cannot be derived from any other material than a compound of proteine. Scherer has shewn that gelatine contains the elements of two equivalents of proteine, with three of ammonia, and seven of water. 5. Chondrine is a substance in many respects similar to gelatine. It is obtained in a state of solution, by boiling water, from the permanent cartilages and from the cornea ; also from the temporary cartilage prior to ossification; it gelatinizes on cooling, and when dry assumes the appearance of glue. It differs from gelatine, in not * Graham’s Chemistry, p. 1039.