313 CHap. .Vi.] PIIY8ICAL NERVOUS ACTIONS OF TI1F. CORI). the coni are so independent of all mental influence, and so purely physical in their cause, as well as in their nature, being provoked by a physical stimulus, and consisting essentially in a physical i change in the centre, as well as in its afferent and efferent nerves, : that they may be distinguished from those of volition and sensa- ■ tion, in which the mind has a necessary share, by being designated “physical.” It has been already stated that Dr. Marshall Ilall uses the not unobjectionable title of “ excito-motory ” in reference : to these actions. In general, when a stimulus is applied to the spinal cord, the actions which are excited by it are confined to a part which derives its nerves from that segment of the cord on which the stimulus falls, iln some instances, however, parts supplied from other and even distant segments are thrown into action. Thus irritation of one leg will cause movements of one or both of the upper extremities; the introduction of a catheter into the urethra will sometimes cause ■ forcible contractions of the muscles of all the limbs. No doubt these effects are due to the extension of the irritation in the eord 1 beyond the point first stimulated; and they may l>e regarded as [proofs that that peculiar state of physical change which nervous irritation can excite in a centre may be propagated in the spinal <ard, upwards, downwards, or sideways from the sent of the primary e stimulation. Disease affords some striking instances in confirmation of this remark. A wound in the sole of the foot, or the ball of the thumb, or in 'Some other situation favourable to the maintenance of prolonged •irritation, is capable of exciting a particular region of the cord, from which the state of excitement spreads so as to involve not only the whole cord, but part of the medulla oblongata also ; and in this state a large proportion of the motor nerves participate, so as to in- duce tonic contraction of the muscles they supply. This is the rationale of the developement of that fearful malady called teiaam. It consists not in an inflammatory affection of the cord, or of its membranes, nor in congestion of them, but simply in a state of prolonged physical excitement, the natural polar force of the centre being greatly exalted, and kept so by the constant irritation propa- gated to it by the nerves of the wounded part. In cases of paraplegia from disease of the spinal cord, even when the paralysis of sensation and of motion is complete, patients are tormented with involuntary movements of the lower extremities Pt night, which not only prevent sleep, hut occasion considerable