94 LOCOMOTION. [chap. iv. OF FIBRO-CARTILAGE. This texture is a compound of white fibrous tissue and cartilage in varying proportions. It is principally employed in the construction of joints, and con- i tributes to their perfection at once by its strength and its elasticity ; 1 but as it is also, to a limited extent, used for other purposes, it may |j be conveniently described as, 1, Articular; 2, Non-articular. Fibro-cartilage, examined by the naked eye, has much of the i colour and general appearance of the thyroid cartilage, or of other examples of the membraniform variety, which Bichat, indeed, ;| classed among fibro-cartilages. Its colour is white, with a slight I tinge of yellow; it is interspersed by the shining fibres of white ;; fibrous tissue, and its appearance differs with the quantity of that 2 texture that is mingled with it. Its consistence also varies, for the same reason; in some instances being extremely dense, in others soft, | yielding, and almost pulpy. When examined microscopically, fibro-cartilage is found to consist^] of bundles of wavy fibres, with the cells or corpuscles of cartilage 1 occupying the spaces formed by the interlacement of the fibrous j tissue. This interlacement is often very intricate, and calculated j to increase the strength of the structure in those directions in which j the greatest toughness is required. Physical and vital properties.—To the strength and density of ; fibrous tissue, fibro-cartilage adds the elasticity of cartilage; it is i more variously flexible than the latter tissue, so that it will not | crack when bent too much. Its sensibility is low, and it is devoid of vital contractility. Vessels and nerves.—Its vessels are few, and are derived from i the textures (synovial membrane or periosteum) with which it is in immediate connexion. Nothing is known respecting its nerves, i if indeed it possess them. Chemical composition.—Fibro-cartilage contains water; when de- prived of it by drying, it shrivels up, and becomes hard and yellow. j It yields gelatine in abundance on boiling. Forms of Fibro-cartilage.—The articular fibro-cartilage is that which is found most extensively, and it exists in three forms, -j a. As discs, interposed between osseous surfaces, and equally ad- ; lierent to both, of which the intervertebral discs and the inter- ; pubic fibro-cartilage are instances, b. As laminae, free on both