188 LOCOMOTION. CHap. vrr. by their both interfering with healthy nutrition. That they do thus act, is rendered probable by other proofs. It has long been known that cutting off the supply of blood from a muscle destroys its contractility ; that unnatural temperature has the same effect; and, in general, that all causes affecting nutrition affect also contrac- tility in the same degree. The contractility of a muscle has also invariably a certain com- plexion or character connected, we might almost 6ay, with the vigour, but at least with the character, of the nutrient process in the parti- cular muscle. This fact has been ably illustrated by Dr. Marshall Hall,* who nevertheless is opposed to the great conclusion which we consider to flowr from it, that contractility is proportioned to the activity and perfection of the nutrient function. If we suddenly check the supply of nutrient material to the mus- cles of various animals, in the same state as regards previous stimu- lation, and in such a manner as not to stimulate the muscles in so doing; we shall find that their contractility, as evidenced by their contracting under a given stimulus, endures through very unequal periods of time. Thus, in the bird it is very evanescent; in the insect, also, it is very evanescent; in the mammal less so ; in the reptile it lingers longer; while in the fish and crustacean it is in general very enduring. The degree in which oxygen is admitted to the tissues in these animals, corresponds in the main with the scale thus designated by the relative endurance of the contractility of their muscles. No- thing is more probable than that the amount of oxygen admitted to the tissues may be taken as a fair estimate of the activity in them of the processes of waste and assimilation. Now, we knowr that the vitality of the tissues does not cease immediately on their supply of nutriment being cut off; that death of the whole animal, as an indi- vidual, is not necessarily attended with simultaneous death of every part; that somatic death gradually follows systemic death, from the functions being no longer concatenated in mutual dependence: and it is entirely consonant with facts to suppose that the endur- ance of the vital functions in the tissues after systemic death is pro- portionate to the slowness with which they are ordinarily performed. The close correspondence, therefore, between the duration of con- tractility and the slowness of the nutrient function in various ani- mals, is a strong evidence of the dependence of the one on the other. And it is extremely interesting to observe, that not only does a . * See article “ Irritability,” Cyclop, of Anat. and Pliys.