CHAP. VIII NERVOUS MATTER. ] 205 dently of mental influence, is further proved by instances of con- vulsive movements, more or less violent, which are produced by a morbid irritation of the brain or spinal cord. The peculiar animal matter, through the agency of which all these phenomena take place, the nervous matter, is found in two terms, the vesicular and the fibrous. The vesicular nervous matter is gray or cineritious in colour, and granular in texture ; it contains nucleated nerve-vesicles, and is largely supplied with blood ; it is more immediately associated with the mind, and is the seat in which originates the force manifested in nervous actions. The fibrous nervous matter, on the other hand, is in most situations white, and composed of tubular fibres, though in some parts it is gray, and consists of solid fibres: it is less vascular than the other, and is simply the propagator of impressions made upon it. When these two kinds of nervous matter are united together in a mass of variable shape or size, the body so formed is called a ner- vous centre, and the threads of fibrous matter which pass to or from it are called nerves. The latter are inientuncial in their office: 1 they establish a communication between the nervous centres and 1 the various parts of the l>ody, and vice verm ; they conduct the impulses of the centres to the periphery, and communicate the iin- ; pressions made upon the peripheral nervous ramifications to the centres. The centres are the great sources of nervous power, the lalmratories in which the nervous force is generated: the mind is more immediately connected with one of them, the brain ; which, on i that account, possesses greater physical developement, and acquires p pre-eminence over the others. The smaller nervous centres are called ganglions; the larger ones are the brain and spinal cord. All of these are found in the human subject, and in the vertebrate ani- mals. In the invertebrate classes, the centres are ganglia variously disposed, according to the shape and actions of the animals. The brain and spinal cord, and the system of nerves connected with them, constitute the cerebrospinal portion of the nervous sys- tem, which Bichat distinguished as the nervous system of animal life. [■The nerves of the senses, and those of volition and common sensa- tion. are connected with it, as well as those which are concerned in many of those purely physical nervous actions with which the mind iias no connexion. There are very numerous ganglions connected with this system which are conveniently comprehended under the *nne title. These are, the ganglions on the posterior roots of the ‘pinal nerves, the ganglion of the fifth pair, those of the glosso- pharyngeal and of the vagus.