chap, xiv.] THE SKIN. 405 the dense and altered areolar tissue constitutes by far the largest proportion of the cutis derma, or cutis tera. The external surface of the skin, formed by the cuticle, (which everywhere adapts itself to the form of the surface on which it rests,) is marked by furrows of various kinds. Some of these (furrows of motion) occupy the neighbourhood of joints, especially on the side of flexion, and are generally transverse, fa- cilitating the formation and determining the position of the folds that result from the movements of one segment of a limb on an- other. Others correspond to the insertion of cutaneous muscles; for example, many of those which give force and character to the features ; and these are much modified by the quantity of subja- cent fat. The elevator muscle of the lower lip thus causes the “ double chin.” Furrows of another kind are seen in aged and emaciated persons, and after the subsidence of any great distension of the integument, such as that occasioned by anasarca or preg- nancy. Hut, besides these coarser lines, almost every part of the skin is grooved by numberless very minute furrows, which in the more highly developed regions run in nearly parallel curv- ed lines, and elsewhere assume a stellated arrangement, or form a close interlacement of no regular figure. These lines are important, as they depend upon peculiarities in the texture of the skin, having particular relation to the sense of touch : they may be best studied on the palmar aspect of the hand and fingers, and on the sole of the foot. The outer surface of the skin likewise presents innumerable pores, the orifices of the sebaceous follicles and sudoriferous ducts ; and the various modifications of the epidermis, termed “ appendages of the skin,” as hairs, nails, &e., all project on the same aspect. The deep surface of the skin is formed by the cutis, or cutis vera, and is attached to the parts which it invests by an extension of the areolar tissue, of which it is itself principally composed, as well as by vessels, nerves, and sometimes muscular fibres, passing into its substance from the subjacent region. It is on this surface that the sweat-glands rest; they are imbedded in it more or less deeply, according to their size, and the length of their excreting ducts; and together with the fatty pellets, so abundant in most parts of the subcutaneous fascia, occasion that areolar or cribriform appearance, which is seen on this aspect of a cleanly dissected portion of integu- ment. In preparing such a specimen, it is at once made evident, however great the difference may seem to be between the dense and closely woven texture of the cutis and the lax fascia to which it owes its mobility on subjacent organs, that these tissues blend in-