CHAPTER II. FUNCTIONS. ANIMAL MOTIONS. MOLECULAR MOTION. ORGANIC MOLE- CULAR MOTION. MUSCULAR MOTION.— CILIARY MOTION. MOTIONS OF SPERMATOZOA. The subdivision of the functions of the human organism into the animal and the organic, as already stated, may be adopted as the least objectionable basis for their arrangement. Under the former title we include those functions, which are peculiar to and characteristic of the animal part of the living creation, and to which there is nothing similar or analogous in the vegetable kingdom. These are locomotion and innervation. The organic functions are pre- sent in both kingdoms, with certain modifications. They are diges- tion, absorption, circulation, respiration, secretion, and generation. In examining these various processes, we propose to follow the order in which they have been enumerated. We find it con- venient to take the locomotive function first, because so large a proportion of the mechanical arrangements, or of the anatomy of the body, is connected with it. The transition from locomotion to innervation is easy and obvious; for the nervous system has a special connexion with the locomotive organs, in order that the influence of the will may be conveyed to them. It may be here stated, that in the animal functions the interference of volition is more frequent than in the organic ones ; and that, in all, the ner- vous system exerts a certain control, and may influence to a great degree the performance of the functions, although some of them are essentially independent of it. Of the minute movements occurring in the interior of the body.— Of these we may distinguish three kinds : 1. Those in which particles are moved passively by forces independent of themselves. 2. Those accompanying the incessant changes of the organic elements of the tissues. 3. Those which occur in certain entire tissues on the ap- plication of an appropriate stimulus. All these movements may be called molecular on account of the minuteness of the particles con- cerned in them. 1. The term molecular motion was used many years ago by Mr. Robert Brown, to denote a phenomenon which he had witnessed