274 INNERVATION. [chap. x. sists of a series of curved fibres, which pass from one crus cerebelli to the other. When the brain lies with its base uppermost, these fibres appear to cross over the upward continuations of the ante- rior pyramids, as a bridge over a stream. Hence the term pons was applied to them by Varolius.* The fibres form a series of curves, convex forwards, concave towards the medulla oblongata, the posterior being much less curved than the anterior. At either side they become more closely packed, taper, and form the inferior layer of each crus cerebelli. Along the middle line a groove traverses the surface of the pons from its posterior to its anterior margin, in which the basilar artery usually lies. The fibres of the pons are always developed in the direct ratio of the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In animals which have only the median lobe, there is no pons; and when the hemispheres are small, the pons is small likewise. Hence these fibres must be regarded as especially belonging to the cerebellum, and as serving, whatever other office they may perform, to connect the hemi- spheres of opposite sides. They constitute, therefore, the great transverse commissure of the cerebellum, and are to the hemispheres of that organ what the corpus callosum is to those of the brain. These transverse fibres do not form merely a superficial plane, which covers the pyramids in their upward passage : on the con- trary, they extend to more than one half of the depth of the meso- cephale, as is apparent on a transverse section of it. The more superficial fibres simply cross from one side to the other; the deeper-seated ones interlace with those of the pyramids. The fibres are irregularly disposed in planes, and vesicular matter is interposed between the more deeply-seated ones. From this gray matter it is not improbable that some of the fibres of the pyramids may take origin. On the superior surface of the mesocephale are the quadrigemi- nal bodies, (nates and testes.) and beneath these the olivary columns. A slight longitudinal groove separates the quadrigeminal bodies into a right and left pair, and a transverse groove indicates their division into an anterior and posterior pair. They are gangliform bodies, of a grayish white colour, containing fibrous and vesicular matter. The anterior (nates) are somewhat elliptical in shape; they are the larger in man. The posterior (testes) are hemi- spherical, and somewhat lighter in colour. These bodies are much more developed in the low'cr animals than in man. In mammalia * The terms annular protuberance, isthmus encephali, nodus encephali, arc also fre- ^ quently used.