316 [chap. xi. INNERVATION. effectually calms this excited state. Conium and belladonna have been, in our hands, very useful in relieving the cramps and start- ings in paraplegic cases. We have seen no marked benefit from hydrocyanic acid, although we have administered it freely : on the contrary, we fear that both it and the two former substances might, if given in large doses, have the contrary effect, and in- crease the polarity of the cord. Certain it is, that animals poisoned by large doses of these drugs always die in a state of general con- vulsion, and that in the instances where they have acted as poisons on the human subject, general convulsions have come on a longer or shorter time before death. Functions of the Colicmns of the Cord.—Having so far deter- mined the functions of the entire cord, the next question which demands our attention is, whether its columns have special func- tions, in accordance with those of the separate roots of the nerves. Could it be proved that the anterior or motor roots were exclu- sively connected with the antero-lateral columns, and that the posterior or sensitive ones arose exclusively from the posterior columns, then there would be good anatomical grounds for the doctrine so long erroneously prevalent, that the functions of those columns coincided with those of the roots, that the posterior columns were sensitive and the anterior motor : but nothing is more certain than that both roots are connected with the antero- lateral columns ; and it is a matter of some doubt whether the posterior roots have any connexion at all with the posterior columns. Hence, all that anatomy warrants us in stating is, that the antero-lateral columns are probably compound in function, both motor and sensitive. Respecting the office of the posterior columns little can be said. Are they sensitive ? Were they so, it might be expected that they would exhibit an obvious enlargement at the situations which correspond to the origins of the largest sensitive nerves ; but it is remarkable that the posterior columns exhibit little variation of size throughout the entire length of the cord. And it is not likely they can be motor, inasmuch as the apparent origin of the motor roots is so distinctly remote from them. Comparative anatomy throws no light on this question. New and careful researches are much needed to determine the developc- ment of the posterior columns, and the exact relation which the posterior roots bear to them in different classes of animals. Nor do we derive much positive knowledge from the researches of the morbid anatomist. Cases, indeed, are on record, which shew that disease of the posterior columns does not necessarily destroy'