chap. XI.] OFFICE OF T1IE COLUMNS OF THE CORD. 317 sensibility; that perfect sensibility is compatible with total de- struction of the posterior columns in some particular region, tin* posterior roots remaining intact: and others have occurred in which sensibility has been impaired or destroyed, while the posterior columns remained perfectly healthy. In a remarkable case, related by Dr. Webster, there was complete paralysis of motion in the lower extremities, but sensibility remained ;* yet there was com- plete destruction of the posterior columns in the lower part of the i cervical region. Similar cases have been put on record by Mr. Stanley and by Dr. W. Iludd. Dr. Nasse, of Bonn, refers to several cases of the same kind, observed by himself or others.^ We have ourselves seen two cases in which the prominent symptom was great impairment of the motor power without injury to the Sensitive; yet the seat of organic lesion in both was in the posterior columns of the cord. Such a case as that of Dr. Webster’s appears to us to be conclusive, so far as the following proposition extends, namely, that sensation may be enjoyed in the inferior extremities independently of the posterior columns; and that, even if those co- lumns be sensitive, there must be some other channel for the trans- mission of sensitive impressions besides them. We are not aware of any well-observed case in which the motor power persisted after extensive lesion of the antero-lateral columns; on the contrary, we believe it may be laid down as the general rule, that lesion of those columns always impairs both the motor and the sensitive functions to an extent proportionate to the amount of morbid structure. Pathological observations, then, appear to warrant the conclusion that the antero-lateral columns are compound in function, l»oth sensitive and motor, but they do not justify us in attributing sensitive power to the posterior columns. Direct experiments on the anterior and posterior columns of the cord are surrounded by difficulties, which embarrass the experi- menter, and weaken the force of his inferences. The depth at which the cord is situate in most vertebrate animals, its extreme excitability, the intimate connexion of its various columns with each other, so that one can scarcely be irritated without the partici- pation of the others, the proximity of the roots of its nerves to each other, and the difficulty of irritating any portion of the cord itself without affecting either the anterior or the posterior roots, are groat * Mc<l. C'liir. Trans vol. xxvj. + Untvrsnchungen 7.ur Physiologic und Pathologic. Bonn, 1835-30.