264 [chap. x. INNERVATION. Fig. 68. posterior fissure extends to the posterior surface of this commissure, there being no such transverse lamina of vesicular matter in the medulla as in the cord. When the pia mater has been carefully removed from the surface of the medulla oblongata, certain grooves are seen which indicate a subdivision of the organ, which is convenient for the purposes of de- scription. In front are the anterior pyramids (corpora pyramidalia antica) separated from each other along the middle line by the ante- rior fissure. External to each anterior pyramid there is an oval prominence surrounded by a superficial groove, which in some in- stances is partially interrupted by some arciform fibres which cross it at its lower part. These projections are the olivary bodies. External to these, and forming the lateral and a great part of the posterior region of the medulla oblongata, are the restiform bodies, two thick columns of fibrous matter, which are separated from each other along the middle line by two slender columns, the posterior pyramids. These last bound the posterior fissure. The anterior pyramids are bundles of fibrous matter which extend between the antero-lateral columns of the cord and the cerebral hemispheres. Below the me- socepliale the fibres are compactly applied to each other so as to form on each side of the median line a column of white matter, the transverse section of which has more or less of a triangular outline. Traced up- wards, the pyramids are found to pass into the mesocephale above its inferior layer of transverse fibres, the pons Varolii. At its entrance into this part of the brain each pyramid experiences a slight but well-mark- ed constriction, but immediately expands Front view of the medulla obion- again; and its fibres in their further course gafca:—/>, p. Pyramidal bodies, de- , , ,, cussating at d. o. olivary bodies, iipwards gradually diverge, and contribute r, r. llestiform bodies. «, a, Arciform n , . p , . a , fibres, v. Lower fibres of the Pons to form the interior lamina ot the crus Varolii. cerebri. In their ascent through the mesocephale the fibres of the pyra- mids are crossed at right angles by some deep transverse fibres on different planes which belong to the same system as those which con- stitute the pons. With these fibres those of the pyramids interlace. Vesicular matter is deposited in the intervals between the more deep- ly seated fibres, from which probably some fibres take their origin, and