CHAP. VIII.] ORIGIN OF NERVES. 217 Orio'm.—The fibres of nerves may lx* traced into the nervous centres, the white or fibrous part of which they contribute to form. As they enter the centre, the fibres diverge slightly either singly or in separate bundles, and pass on to form a connexion with vesicular matter, in the immediate vicinity of the point of immer- gence or at a more remote situation. How the fibres comport ^themselves with respect to the elements of the vesicular matter is not exactly known. It is certain, however, that nerve-tubes frequently adhere to the sheaths of nerve-vesicles, and that many of them pass between the nerve-vesicles, probably to form a connexion with more distant ones. This may be well seen in the vesicular matter of any of the centres. It is very distinct in the ganglions, and also suffi- ciently manifest in the spinal cord or brain. In the last-named centres some of the tubes which are found in the vesicular matter arc reduced to an extremely minute size (figs. 56, f; 57, A, br and iH, 4), and exhibit small varicosities, sometimes at very regular dis- tances from each other. Valentin describes a looped and plexiform arrangement of the fibres in the vesicular matter of the centres. Hitherto, such an arrangement has eluded our observation so completely, that, but for the high authority on which this statement rests, we should not have deemed it necessary to allude to it. The only confirmation * •> ■of this view with which we have met is derived from a highly inter- esting dissection, by Mr. Lonsdale of Edinburgh, of a monstrosity, n which the spinal cord, medulla oblongata, and cerebellum were absent, but the hemispheres of the brain were present. Several of the encephalic and spinal nerves hung “as loose threads” in the cavity of the cranium or spine. On examining the free or central extremities of these nerves, their constituent fibres were found to •orm distinct loops, convex towards the cranial or spinal cavity. These loops were imbedded in granular matter, supposed to be vesi- cular matter in an early stage of formation. Similar loops were >bserved by the same anatomist in the cranial nerves of an anen- ■ephalous foetus which hail been preserved in spirits.* Branching.—As a nerve passes from centre to periphery, it breaks ip into a number of small bundles, which form so many branches leslined for the organs or tissues among which they are placed. These brandies generally separate from the parent trunk at an mite angle, ami soon plunge into the muscles or other parts to 'hidi they tend, dividing and subdividing among them. Some * Dr. Lon«<lali’> case of Monstrosity. Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. l.YT.