CHAP. vi. LOCOMOTION. 142 assumes about the middle of the articular surface, where the base of the wedge is turned in the opposite direction to that which it occu- pies either at the upper or the lower part of the articular surface.* These provisions for the strength and security of the sacrum are of great importance to the general mechanism of the pelvis, whether we regard it as a bony girdle constructed for the transmission of the weight of the trunk to the thigh-bones, or as an osseous cavity destined to contain and protect certain important viscera. Viewing the pelvis in the former light, we must notice the thick- ening of the iliac bones along either side of its upper outlet. The groinings, thus formed, terminate opposite the acetabula, and trans- mit the superincumbent weight, which they share with the sacrum, to each of those cavities, whence it is again transferred to the heads of the thigh-bones : they are formed of dense compact substance, which contrasts strikingly with the thin lamellated structure of the surrounding osseous tissue. The obliquity of the pelvis has a two-fokl object: first, with reference to the weight from above ; and, secondly, with respect to concussions transmitted upwards by the lower limbs, in leaps, or other rapid movements. In both instances, the shock is distributed over a greater extent of surface, and is participated in by a greater number of joints, than if the pelvis were placed directly beneath the spine ; for it is obvious, that, were the axis of the pelvis vertical, and the femora placed perpendicularly under it, the weight from above would bear its chief force upon the sacrum, and the concus- sion from below would be felt in the hip-joints alone. In progression, the whole pelvis receives the concussions, when they proceed from above or from below. Hence the ossa pubis are united by an intervening elastic fibro-cartilage; and any disturbance of this joint during pregnancy, or in the act of parturition, occasions great difficulty to the patient in walking, or even in maintaining the erect posture. Of the Thorax.—The thorax is a conoidal cavity, slightly flat- tened on its anterior aspect. It is constructed with obvious refer- ence to lightness, elasticity, and mobility; all these qualities being requisite for its adaptation to the ever-varying movements of the organs it contains. The walls of the chest are formed behind by the dorsal vertebrae, to which twelve ribs are articulated on each side: seven of these, the true ribs, are connected to either margin of the sternum by * We refer for further details on this subject to Mr. Ward’s excellent work, p. 256.