PROTEINE. [chap. i. 40 and any salts which may be mixed with it, and to set the proteine free. Proteine, when dried, forms a hard, brownish-yellow substance, without taste, and insoluble in water and alcohol. It attracts moisture from the air, and swells out again into a gelatinous mass when moistened. It is soluble in all acids, when diluted; and forms combinations with them, which arc with difficulty, or not at all, soluble in excess of acid. It is also dissolved in dilute alkalies, or in solutions of alkaline earths. The ultimate analysis of proteine, according to Mulder, from one hundred parts gives as follows : Nitrogen Carbon . Hydrogen Oxygen . 16-01 55-29 7-00 21-70 100-00 The following table exhibits the relations which albumen, fibrine, J and caseine bear respectively to proteine : Albumen of Serum = 10 eqts. Proteine + 1 eqt. Phosph. + 2 cqts. Sulph. Albumen of Egg = 10 cqts. Proteine + 1 eqt. Phosph. + 1 eqt. Sulph. Fibrine = 10 cqts. Proteine + 1 eqt. Phosph. + 1 eqt. Sulph. Caseine = 10 eqts. Proteine + 1 eqt. Sulph. Besides the essential elements of these proximate principles, which are obtained by their ultimate analysis, we find certain salts mixed with them. In albumen, phosphates and sulphates of earths aud alkalies and chloride of sodium; in fibrine, phosphate of lime; and in caseine, the same salt, in the proportion of 6-24 per cent. As the phosphate of lime is the same as bone-earth, the existence of it in union with the proximate principle, which forms the chief constituent of milk, seems to have reference to the process of ossification during the growth of the infant. Proteine, in every respect the same as that which forms the basis of the proximate principles just described, may be obtained from similar elements in the vegetable kingdom. Gluten, which exists abundantly in the seeds of the Cerealia, yields a principle which is called vegetable fibrine; the same substance coagulates spontaneously in the newly expressed juice of vegetables. From the clarified juices of cauliflower, asparagus, mangel-wurzel, or turnips, when made to boil, a coagulum is formed, which cannot be distinguished from the coagulated albumen of serum or the egg. This