THE SWEAT-GLANDS. '0 423 CHAP. XIV fig- 01. On detaching one of these glands, and highly magnifying it, it is seen to consist of a solitary tube intricately ravelled, one end of which is closed, and usually buried within the gland ; the other emerges from the gland, and opens on the skin. Sometimes this tube is branched, but its diameter is usually very uniform from end to end. When very long, the open end forming the duct is a little wider than the rest. The wall is comparatively thick, so that the calibre is not more than a third of the whole diameter. It consists, like the corresponding part of most other glands, of two lay- ers : an outer or basement mem- brane, with which the vessels are in contact; and an epithelium, lining the interior. The base- ment membrane is extremely thin, and is continuous with the outer surface of the papilla. The epithelium is much thicker, and is an involution of the epi- dermis that rests on the papilla and dips in between them. Hence the tube, traced outwards from the gland, loses the base- ment membrane at the surface of the papillae ; and the remainder of its course is pursued upwards through the successive lamina: of cuticular scales. The preparation exhibited in fig. 91 shews the continuity of the epithelium lining the ex- creting part of the duct with the cuticle, and also discloses its hardness and cuticular character, quite different from that of the «• Vertical nection of the cuticle from the heel. .. .... detached hj maceration a* in fig. 7». The epithe- secretlllg epithelium Within tile 1mm of the *weat-duct, continuou. with the cuticle, , ha» been drawn out of the tube of bawroent mem- glana, which IS soft alia easily Wane, as far a* the gland, where it begin, to he con- • 1 1»r 1 I I lotted. The cavity of the duet i« «een dilating a* n decomposed. \\ e have remarked mim the cuticle, and then .tretchmg ™ to the »««- , , . , . face through the epidermic lamittce. The deen »ur- that the duct, 111 traversing the face of the duct ■« cotitinuou. with the surface of the ■ o.i . • i . i. ,, cavitie* in which the nauillte arc lodged.—Maun. 34 layers of the cuticle, is lined by diam. H. ... . . * Duet at it* entrance into the cuticle.—More crime part icles having a dit- highly magnified.