[chap. vih. 214 INNERVATION. nexion of which with the other elements of the nervous tissue has yet to be ascertained. It is most probable, however, that they eithei serve to connect distant vesicles, or else that they become conti- nuous with the axis cylinders of the tubular fibres. In the cerebro- spinal centre, we have found the tissue in the vicinity of the caudate vesicles freely traversed in all directions by numerous very delicate filaments, which seem to be the ramifications of the caudate pro- cesses. These often exhibit considerable tenacity and elasticity. The situations from which we may obtain such caudate vesicles as are best suited for examination, are the locus niger in the crus cerebri, and the gray matter of the cerebellum and spinal cord. Fig. 56. s a b y \ V a. A large caudate nerve-vesicle, with diverging and branching processes, some of which, b, are seen to pass off into extremely minute filaments. These seem to bear a very close resem- blance to the central part of a tubular fibre, e, which is prolonged some way beyond the broken edge of its tubular membrane and white substance, d. At e, are some small nerve-vesiclcs, stel- late in form, doubtless from numerous processes given off from them: /, several extremely small nerve-tubes, some of which are varicose. This figure exhibits the great variety of si?.c of the vesicles and tubes, a. is from the posterior horn of the gray matter of the spinal marrow, and is magnified only 120 diameters, while the vesicles and tubes at e, from the gray matter of the lower end of the cord, are magnified 300 diameters, d. is also from the spinal marrow, and is magnified 200 diameters. The nerve-vesicles do not lie in immediate contact with each other. They are either imbedded in a soft, granular matrix, as in the brain, or enveloped in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia (fig. 51, f g). The intimate connexion of this gran- ular sheath to the vesicle, and to its processes when they exist, increases greatly the difficulty of examining them. It is not easy to detach them from this investment. This is generally effected by accident more than by skill in manipulation, and it is along the broken margin of the piece under examination that we shall succeed in detecting the most perfect vesicles.