CHAP. XV. | 443 PRECISE SEAT OF TASTE. * * > * # distinguished; though, when placed on the middle of the dorsal region, they make little or no impression till pressed against the roof of the mouth. In the latter case, however, the taste of sugar is sufficiently distinct, and referred definitely to the spot on which it is laid; so that its being tasted does not depend on its diffusion or removal from the central to the circumferential parts, as some imagine. The region now spoken of is supplied almost solely by the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, though Valentin has descril>ed a twig of the glosso- pharyngeal running on the under surface towards the tip. We conclude generally, with regard to the tongue, that the whole dorsal surface possesses taste, but especially the circumferential parts, viz. the base, sides, and apex. These latter regions are most favour- ably situated for testing the sapid qualities of food ; while they are much less exposed than the central part, to the pressure and friction occasioned by the muscles of the tongue during mastication. The central legion, as a whole, is more strongly protected by its dense epithelium, and is rougher, to aid in the comminution and disper- sion of the food. Thirdly, the soft palate and its arches, with the surface of the tonsils, apjH'ar to be endowed with taste in various degrees in different individuals. Admirault and Guyat affirm that the sense is acute in a spot about the centre, above the uvula ; and in some individuals it has so appeared tous. We have also found evidence of the existence of taste on the sides and arches of the soft palate in some individuals, but not on the pharynx, gums, or elsewhere. The soft palate and its arches are supplied by the posterior palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and sparingly by the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Of the Xerves of Taste.—Taste having been shewn to exist inde- pendently in parts supplied, on the one hand solely by the glosso- pharyngeal nerves, on the other solely by the lingual branches of the fifth pair, it follows, as a direct consequence, that these nerves must respectively participate in the sense ; and there is besides reason to attribute a share to the palatal branches of the fifth. Amid many conflicting, and some quite irreconcileabie statements on this disputed point, with which it would l>e needless to distract the reader's atten- tion, the weight of evidence derived from other sources seems to be much in favour of the above conclusion. I’he origin and connexions of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, which will l»e described at a future page, may be referred to in connexion with this question. Rapp found no lingual branch of the fifth in the tongue of the swan or parrot, both of which have acute taste. The glosso-pharyngeal and par vagum supplied the organ.