[chap. x. 252 INNERVATION. nium, insured not merely by the inextensible nature of the principal venous canals, but also by the free anastomosis that exists between them, and by the numerous points at which they communicate with the veins of the cranium, and through these with the superficial veins of the scalp. The spinal veins are extremely numerous and complicated. A very intricate venous plexus surrounds the dura mater on its lateral and posterior surfaces, embedded among the lobules of soft fat by which the exterior of that membrane is invested. This plexus, less intricate in the dorsal than in the cervical and lumbar regions, com- municates very freely with a plexus of veins which surrounds the exterior of the vertebral laminoc and processes (the dorsi-spinal veins of Dupuytren). In front of the dura mater and situate between the outer edge of the posterior common vertebral ligament and the pedicles of the vertebra), we find two remarkable venous si- nuses which extend the whole length of the vertebral column from the occipital foramen to the sacrum. They are the longitudinal spinal sinuses of Willis. In calibre they present many inequalities, being dilated at one part and constricted at another, according to the number and size of the vessels which communicate immediately with them. The sinuses of opposite sides are parallel to each other, and communicate by transverse branches, which pass beneath the posterior common ligament. These transverse branches arc of va- riable calibre, like the sinuses themselves, and are dilated at their middle; at which point they receive veins which emerge from the spongy texture of the bodies of the vertebra) (basi-vertebral veins of Breschet*). At the highest part of the vertebral canal, the spinal sinuses communicate with the internal jugular veins; in the neck, they communicate with the deep and superficial vertebral veins; with the intercostal veins in the dorsal region, and with the lumbar ones in the loins. The arachnoid is the serous membrane of the cranio-spinal cavity. By its parietal layer it adheres to the dura mater, both of the cra- nium and spine, and by its visceral layer to the brain and spinal cord, with the intervention of the pia mater. The space between these two layers is the arachnoid cavity. In most regions an inter- val exists between the visceral layer of the arachnoid and the pia mater, which is called the sub-arachnoid cavity. This space may be demonstrated by driving air or coloured liquid beneath the visceral layer of the arachnoid. In the spine the connexion of the arachnoid and pia mater is very loose, being effected by some long filaments * See his very beautiful illustrations of the venous system. I