CASEINE. 39 CHAP. I.] tate occurs, which is sulphate of caseine. By digesting the clot, thus formed, with water and carbonate of lime, the acid combines with the lime, and the caseine, set free, dissolves in the water, and may be obtained by evaporation. Caseine is coagulated very perfectly by the action of rennet (the fourth or true digesting stomach of the calf) aided by heat. This . power of coagulating caseine is not to be attributed to the acid of the calf's stomach, but to the organic principle (pepsine) resident in it; for the power remains, after all evidence of acid reaction has been 0 removed. This is one of the most powerful agents in causing the ■ coagulation of caseine, and it has been employed in domestic eeconomy for the manufacture of cheese, which consists of the curd mixed with butter, compressed and dried. So perfect is the coagu- 1 lating power of rennet, that not a particle of caseine in milk sub- > niitted to its action will remain uncoagulated. Caseine comports itself with reagents in a manner very similar to albumen. In the coagulated state it is insoluble in water, but soluble in liquor potassan It is not precipitated by heat alone, in which respect it differs from albumen. Acetic acid, which will not precipitate albumen, causes the coagulation of caseine, and an excess of acid again dissolves it. Caseine contains sulphur, but no phosphorus. Mulder’s ultimate analysis is as follows : Nitrogen Carbon . Hydrogen Oxygen . Sulphur 100 00 . 15*95 55-10 . (S-<)7 21-02 . 0*3o If albumen, or fibriue, or caseine be dissolved in a moderately strong solution of caustic potash, and exposed for some time to a high temperature, it becomes decomposed; and if acetic acid be now added, a precipitate takes place of a gelatinous trans- lucent matter. This substance was discovered by Mulder, and named by hiiu Proteim (from the Greek verb I am first), I'cing the radicle of these proximate principles; or, in the lan- Kuage of Liebig, the commencement and starting-point of all the tissues : so that it appears that each of these principles is corn- pox il ot this substance, with the addition of certain proportions of phosphorus, sulphur, or of both. In the process by which it is obtained, the object is to remove the sulphur and phosphorus