103 h HAP. V.] BONK. ompact tissue, giving expansion and lightness to those parts of the . one. In the intermediate portion, or shaft, the compact tissue is jghly developed, affording great strength in the situation where tat quality is the most needed. The compact external surface of bone (except on its articular as- i ect.s) is covered by a firm tough membrane, termed the periosteum, c Inch, like the perichondrium investing cartilage, consists of white | i brous tissue, densely interwoven in all directions. The cancelli are I lied with fat, or medulla, the marrow of bone. They are lined by a *<elicate membrane, called the medullary membrane, which serves Ivo support the fat. In the shaft of the long bones the medulla |h contained, not in ordinary cells, but in one great canal, which ccupies the centre of the shaft, the medullary canal. Here the ledullary membrane lines the compact tissue that forms the wall of he cavity. Both the periosteum and the medullary membrane adhere inti- mately to the bone. Both are abundantly supplied with hlood- essels, which, after ramifying upon them, send numerous branches ■nto the Isme. These membranes are of great importance to the nutrition of the bone, inasmuch as they support its nutrient vessels; nd, if either of them be destroyed to any great extent, the part in ontnct with them necessarily perishes: and they not only cover he outer and inner surfaces of the l*>ne, but also send processes, Jong with the vessels, into minute canals traversing the compact issue, and are, through the medium of these, rendered continuous vith oue another. The great variety of uses to which the bones are applied in the •onstruction of the skeleton, occasions much difference of shape as .veil as of size. The following arrangement comprehends all these ■varieties, and is that commonly adopted. We classify them as, 1, Long bones; 2, Short; 3, Flat; 4, Irregular. The long bones form the principal levers of the body; their length greatly exceeds their breadth and thickness. In descriptive anatomy, a long bone is divided into a shaft, or central part, and two extremities. The shaft is never perfectly straight, it is more or less curved, sis in the femur; and has always an appearance as if, while yet in a soft and flexible condition, it had received a twist, and its extremities had been turned in opposite directions. This is very manifest in the femur and humerus; more especially in the latter, where the groove, in which the radial nerve runs, is just what one might fancifully suppose to have resulted from such a cause as that above named.