CHAP. XI. INNERVATION. 320 must be through their constituent fibres that the cerebellum exerts its influence on the nerves of the lower extremities, and of other parts concerned in the locomotive function. The nearly uniform size of the posterior columns in the different regions of the cord has been already remarked as unfavourable to their being channels of sensation. But this anatomical fact may he adduced as a good argument in support of the hypothesis which we are now discussing. It is worthy of notice that these columns experience no marked diminution in size until the large sacral nerves, which furnish the principal nerves of the lower extremities, begin to come off. In examining a transverse section of the lumbar region of the cord we observe a great predominance of its central gray matter; the posterior columns appear large, and the antero-lateral columns inadequate in proportion to the large roots of nerves which emerge from it. Now, an analysis of the locomotive actions renders it highly probable, that they are partly of a volitional character and partly dependent on the inherent power of that segment of the cord from which the lower extremities derive their nerves. In progression there are two objects to be attained,—to support the centre of gravity of the body, and to propel it onward; the former object requiring, first, that the muscles of the lower extremities, the pillars of support to the trunk, should be well contracted, in a degree proportionate to the weight they have to sustain. Those actions by which the trunk is balanced upon the limbs, and by which the movements of progression are effected, are subsequently called into play through mental influence. The contraction of the muscles of the limbs seems well provided for in an arrangement for the deve- lopement of nervous power by a stimulus propagated to the centre. This stimulus is afforded by the application of the soles of the feet to the ground ; it is therefore proportionate to the weight which presses them downwards. It is well known that physical nervous actions are more developed in the lower than the upper extremities, and the surface of the sole of the foot is well adapted for the reception of sensitive impressions. No object can be assigned for this peculiarity, unless it have reference to the locomotive actions ; and the great developement of the vesicular matter in this region betokens the frequent and energetic evolution of the nervous force. All the structural arrangements necessary for this purpose are found in the antero-lateral columns. The posterior columns come into play in balancing the trunk, and in harmonizing its movements with those of the lower extremities.