50 DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TISSUES FROM CELLS, [chap. i. pointed processes, which unite and form the ramifications of the vessels. In these examples, the nucleus of the cell appears to take no part iu the formation of the tissue. What becomes of it ? does it become absorbed, or does it waste away, its office having ceased! There is abundant evidence to shew that the nuclei are still per-|g sistent in the fully formed tissues, for they have been seen in all those enumerated in the last paragraph. They are generally altered|J in form, being flattened and elongated. Ilenle believes that, while they retain their peculiar characters, they are prolonged at either ? pole into peculiar fibres, distinct, in anatomical and chemical chaw racters, from the proper fibres of the tissue : he designates the lat4| ter Zellmfasern, cell-fibres; and the former Kernfasern, nucleus-^ fibres. For instance, the two elements of areolar tissue, which will be described at a future page, are derived, according to him, the Avhite fibrous element, from the cell; the yellow, from the nucleus. The formation of the homogeneous simple membrane which forms the basement of the skin and mucous membrane, may be ascribed to the flattening and fusion of the cell-walls into one an- other. The free surface of these membranes, wherever they may be found, whether as integuments to the body, or folded into glandfl is the seat of a continual developemcnt of new cells, which may have primarily sprung from the nuclei of the formative cells of the basement membrane. In other tissues the walls of the cells become thickened by a deposition around and between them, with which they become united and incorporated, and thus an intercellular substance is formed. This substance becomes the seat of a further deposition, ; or new arrangement of particles, which, as far as we know at pre-K sent, is not preceded by the developcment of cells. In cartilage, which in its simplest state is only an aggregate of cells, this sub- stance assumes a fibrous form. In most textures, it is not im- probable that the nuclei are persistent; in cartilage, they remain - in the cell-cavities, and possibly contribute to the g-rowth and nutrition of the cartilage; in bone, they form the lacuna? froifl| which minute canals are prolonged into neighbouring ones, or into the vascular channels; and, in teeth, they are probably converted' into the dental tubuli. From the preceding brief and necessarily imperfect sketch, it seems evident that, in the various metamorphoses of the foetal into the per- fect tissues, both the elements of the cells take a part. In no instance does there appear to be an actual conversion of either cell-