54 * Daniell’s Chemistry. ENDOSMOSE.—PERMEABILITY TO GASES. [chap, i.f reach the top and flow over. “ The first moving power here,” says Professor Daniell, “ is the force of adhesion between the water and the bladder; the former penetrates the pores of the latter, and';' comes in contact, upon its upper surface, with the spirit, by the attraction of which, it is removed from the bladder and mixes with its mass. The height of the column is in some degree the mea« v sure of the force thus called into action.” The purely physical?/ nature of this process is shewn by the fact that it will equally take place through porous inorganic substances, as through organic membranes. It would be impossible to do more here than give a brief explanation of this remarkable phenomenon. It is important to add, that the observations of Dutrochet clearly shew that the na- ture of the septum exerts an important influence upon the direction of the predominant current. If the attraction of the septum for the exterior fluid be the greater, the endosmotic current will prevail, and vice versa. Endosmose is a more important agent in the vital phenomena - of plants than in those of animals. It is supposed, by some phy- siologists, to be brought into play in the processes of secretion and absorption. The animal membranes exercise the property of porosity in re- ference to gases, as well as to liquids; and the tendency of dis-S similar gases to become diffused among each other manifests itself even through compound textures. As in the case of liquids, there ’ is a double current, when two dissimilar gases are separated by a porous septum, and the predominant current is that which has the strongest attraction for the septum. The following experiments illustrate this phenomenon :—Confine some common air in a jar, by tying tightly over it a piece of sheet-caoutchouc, and then place the jar under a large bell-glass filled with hydrogen gas; the hydro- gen will gradually penetrate the partition, distend the caoutchouc, and ultimately burst it. Or, suspend a membranous bag, the sto- j maeli of a rabbit, filled with common air, in an atmosphere of carbonic acid ; the latter will penetrate to the former and burst the bag. In both instances there is an exosmose greatly inferior in the quantity of gas to the endosmose. In respiration, this pheno- menon occurs at every inspiration through the walls of the pul- monary air-cells and the plexus of capillary vessels distributed upon them.* Although in the manifestation of these phenomena there is no