[iNTHOn. 24 CIRCULATION.—RESPIRATION. polygastrica, there is no good evidence of the existence of any The presence of atmospheric air is necessary to the existence of all ; organized beings. The air both passes by endosmose into their nutrient fluids, and receives from them certain deleterious gases de- ] veloped in their interior. The function, by which the fluids are : thus aerated, is called Respiration. In plants, the introduction of j atmospheric air conveys nutriment to the organism ; carbonic acid ' and ammonia are thus introduced; the former is decomposed, its I carbon is assimilated, and its oxygen is exchanged for a fresh sup- ; ply of atmospheric air. As the agent in the decomposition of the j carbonic acid is light, it is evident that the generation and the evo- ! lution of oxygen can take place only in the day-time. Consequently, ; during the night, the carbonic acid, with which the fluids of the 1 plant abound, ceases to be decomposed, and is exhaled by its leaves. Hence, plants exhale oxygen in the day-time, and carbonic acid at J night. In animals, carbonic acid accumulates in the blood during its ; circulation ; and, when the atmosphere is brought to bear upon the I capillary vessels containing the blood charged with this gas, a mixture takes place through the delicate walls of the vessels, the atmospheric air passing in, and carbonic acid, with nitrogen and oxygen, in certain proportions, escaping. Thus the evolution of carbonic acid, and the absorption of oxygen and nitrogen, are the characteristic features of respiration in animals. It is highly interesting to notice, how plants are thus subservient to the well-being of animals, in the respiratory function, as well as in preparing nutriment for them. By their respiration they serve to purify the air for animals; for, in absorbing the carbonic acid from the atmosphere, they are continually depriving it of an ele- ment which, if suffered to accumulate beyond certain bounds, would prove destructive to animal life. From the fluids of animals and plants, certain materials are sepa- rated by a singular process, nearly allied in its mechanism to nutri- tion, and called the function of Secretion. The secreted matters are various, and have very different ends: in some cases being destined for some ulterior purpose in the ceconomy ; in others, forming an excrement, the continuance of which in the organism would be pre- judicial to it. The function, which has for its object the propagation of the species, Generation, presents many points of resemblance in plants circulation at all ; their textures imbibing the fluid in which they live.