22 FUNCTIONS OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS. [intkod. to tlie true location of some species. The common sponge, for in- stance, is claimed for each kingdom. logical language, Functions. The functions, which are common to all organized beings, have a two-fold object ; the preservation of the individual, and the pro- pagation of the species. Those destined for the former purpose are the general title Generation. The first step in the nutritive functions of both plants and ani- mals, is to form a fluid, which contains all the elements necessary to nourish the various textures, and to supply materials for the secre- tions. This fluid is, in plants, the sap; in animals, the blood. In both classes of beings a process of absorption precedes the full developement of the nutritive fluid : it is by this means that mate- rial is obtained for its formation. Within the plant or animal it becomes more completely elaborated. In plants, the absorption takes place by the spongioles of the roots. A fluid, already prepared in the soil,—water, holding in solution carbonic acid and various mineral substances, — passes through them into the vegetable organism, without undergoing any reduction or preparation during its transit. In animals, however, the food experiences much change, and a more or less elaborate pro- cess of digestion takes place, before a fluid is formed, capable, when absorbed, of furnishing the materials of the blood. Plants, fixed by their roots in the soil, imbibe from it their nutri- ment. Animals, obtaining food from various sources, introduce it into a digestive cavity, where it is prepared for absorption. The presence of a digestive organ, or stomach, is characteristic of animals. The only instances in which a similar organ may be supposed to exist in the vegetable kingdom, are to be found in those remarkable modifications of leaves, called pitchers (ascidia) in Ne- penthes, Sarracenia, and Dischidia. In the last two plants, these organs certainly serve to retain and dissolve the bodies of insects in the fluid which partially fills them : in Sarracenia, according to Mr. Burnett, the fluid contained in the pitchers is very attractive to in- sects, which, having reached its surface, are prevented from return- ing by the direction of the long bristles that line the cavity. The dissolved food is then absorbed into the plant. On the other hand, the animal kingdom affords some exceptions to the presence of a stomach. In such animals, the absorption of The various processes by which are effected the ceaseless motion and change, so characteristic of living beings, arc called, in physio- the Nutritive Functions: those for the latter are comprehended under