LOCOMOTION. [CITAP. V|. 148 sesses extraordinary power of hugging with his great paws; and, although harmless in disposition, lie can squeeze his enemy, the jaguar, to death. These actions, and the powers of climbing, re- sult from the structure of the shoulder, or from possessing a collar- bone, however imperfect.”* In those Mammalia that dig and burrow in the ground, or whose anterior extremities are so modified as to aid them in flight, or which are skilful in seizing upon and holding objects with their paws, the clavicle is fully developed, and extends the whole way from the scapula to the sternum. Thus in the Rodcntia this bone is very perfect, as, for example, the squirrel, the beaver, the rabbit, the rat, &c. The bat affords an example of a very strong and long clavicle, as also do the mole and the hedgehog among the Iuscc- tivora. Among the Edentata those tribes possess a clavicle whose habits are fossorial, as the ant-eater, the armadillo, and even the gigan- tic extinct megatherium. In the Quadrumana the clavicles are strong, and curved, as in the human subject. The clavicle possesses considerable elasticity by reason of its curves; a property obviously of the greatest importance to it, be- cause, as the bond of connexion of the shoulder to the trunk, it is liable to participate in the many concussions to which the upper ex- tremity is exposed. This point has been put to the test of direct experiment by Mr. Ward. He employed the clavicle of a well- developed male subject, of the middle age: this was placed upon a smooth surface, with its shaft perpendicular to the plane of a wall, against which its inner extremity rested ; a smart blow was then struck with a hammer on the outer extremity of the bone, in the direction of its long axis ; the hammer rebounded from the end of the bone, which sprang to a distance of nearly two feet from the wall. The humerus is the principal lever of the upper extremity : i» man it is light, and its articular extremities are constructed to con- tribute to the formation of very moveable joints. The bones of the fore-arm are also remarkable for their lightness and elasticity; and they move freely, not only on the humerus, but on each other. The movements of pronation and supination, which are necessary to the free and full use of the hand, are performed by the rotation of the radius round an axis passing through its head and neck; the slight curve in the shaft of the radius causes its carpal extremity to * Bridgewater Treatise, p. 48.