Urrnoi).] THEORIES OF LIFE. 17 Muller advocates the presence of an “ or panic force", resident in ; lie whole organism, on which the existence of each part depends, md w hich has the property of generating from organic matters the ndividual organs necessary to the whole. “ This rational creative f orce is exerted in every animal strictly in accordance with what the fi lature of each requires; it exists already in the germ, and creates n it the essential parts of the future animal." An hypothesis, not dissimilar to that last mentioned, is maintained j iy Dr. Prout, and, as appears to us, it has been pushed by him to he utmost limits which the most fanciful speculation would admit of. He supposes that a certain organic agent (or agents) exists, the i ntimate nature of which is unknown, but to which very extra- ordinary powers are ascribed. It is superior to those agents whose Operations we witness in the inorganic world : it possesses the power Of controlling and directing the operations of those inferior agents. If," says Dr. Prout, “ the existence of one such organic agent be idmitted, the admission of the existence of others can scarcely be withheld ; for the existence of one only is quite inadequate to ex/dain *he infinite diversity among plants and animals" “ In all cases it must be considered an ultimate principle, endowed by the Creator with a faculty little short of intelligence, by means of which it is enabled to construct such a mechanism from natural elements, and by the aid of natural agencies, as to render it capable of taking further advantage of their properties, and of making them subser- vient to its use.” The hypotheses of Aristotle, Muller, and Prout, and the earlier of those proposed by Harvey, seem all alike; they assume that organization and life are directed and controlled by an Entity, or Power, “ endowed with a faculty little short of intelligence,” the e^xr/r, of Aristotle, the animating principle of Harvey, the organic force of Muller, and the organic agent of Prout. What the me- chanism may be by which this entity acts, they do not determine ; but it is evidently such as bears no analogy to any known natural agency. Its existence is independent of the organism, for it has di- rected both the organizing process and the living actions of the being. hence then is it derived ? According to Muller, from the parent, lor it exists in the germ,— it derives its powers from the same source, and its pedigree may therefore be traced to the first created individual ot each species of animal or plant. Are we to conclude, then, that organic agents generate organic agents, and transmit their powers to their offspring i Or must we assume, that, for each newly generated animal or plant, a special organic agent is de- c