LOCOMOTION. [chap. vii. 1 GO commonly take a parallel course together, the bulgings occasioned by the corpuscles give rise to partial longitudinal shadows, extending for some way beyond the corpuscles in the intervals of the fibres. As these irregular longitudinal shadows occur pretty uniformly throughout a bundle of fibres, and as some of them are necessarily out of focus, while others are in focus, the whole mass commonly presents a confused reticulated appearance, which has given rise to an almost universal notion that the fibres interlace one with another. This idea, however, is, in most cases, erroneous. It is doubtful whether these fibres are invested by a sarcolemma: none has hitherto been detected in an unequivocal manner. It is also still a matter of speculation how they terminate, or whether they in all instances have a termination. In the case of the transverse fibres of the intestine, for example, it is uncertain whether each fibre surrounds the canal once, returning into itself as a ring, or more than once, as a spiral; or whether it passes only partially round it, the circle being completed by others. Whether the areolar tissue (the representative of the fibrous), that is found in connection with these fibres, serves to give them an attachment, by union with their extremities, or by involving them in its meshes, is also altogether unknown. In the gizzard of the bird, the ends of the fibres are united to white fibrous tissue, thus making an approxima- tion to the striped fibre, as they do in colour. Hut we have not been able, after diligent search, to detect the true transverse stripes, which Ficinus describes to exist in this organ. Of the distribution of the two varieties of fibre in the body.—The striped fibre is met with in all muscles of the body whose action can be directly influenced by the will, and also in those of the pharynx, the oesophagus, and the heart. In the oesophagus it seem to be mingled with the other variety to a somewhat uncertain extent. In some specimens from the human subject we have failed in detecting any in the lower half of that tube, either in the circular or longitudinal layer; but in other examples we have found them to within an inch of the stomach.'* It is still unknown in what manner the two kinds of fibre are arranged at their point of junction: some supposing them to be intermingled; others, that they pass into one another by imperceptible gradations of struc- ture. The former of these views is the more accordant with our own observations; and Mr. Mayo mentions a fact, which seems to * Among the lower animals, Mr. Gulliver lias pointed out similar varieties. (Proceed, of Zool. Soc., No. 81.) (See also Lancet, Aug. 1842.)