cHAi*. ix.] NERVOUS AND ELECTRICAL FORCES COMPARED. 237 afford many examples of' men the working of whose minds has l>een wholly or partially destroyed by the shock which a sudden reverse of fortune, or the loss of some near and dear relative, may have occasioned. Constant or frequent excesses in the use of ardent spirits may probably be thus injurious in two ways; first, by the direct influence of the alcohol on the cerebral fibre itself, producing a chemical alteration in the nervous substance ; and secondly, by the frequent mental excitement which the use of such a stimulus induces. Can we form anv conception of the nature of this wonderful power, which is so intimately connected with the functions of our bodies and with the working of our minds ? That it presents many points of resemblance to electricity, a comparison of the laws of these two forces leaves no room to doubt; although there are abundant reasons for questioning their identity. The comparison may be best instituted between the nervous power and the force of voltaic electricity, or current affinity, as it has lately been called, which is developed in the galvanic battery. For the production of this force the ordinary requisites are two dissimilar metals, and an interposed comjwund liquid. When the metals are brought into contact with each other, a chemical action immediately commences, and an electric current sets in a definite direction, namely, from the metal which exerts the greatest affinity for one of the elements of the interposed liquid towards the other metal. Thus if zinc, pla- tinum, and dilute sulphuric acid be used, the fluid is decomposed; its oxygen is attracted to the zinc, which being oxidised and uniting with sulphuric acid, sulphate of zinc is rapidly formed, and dissolved as quickly as formed, in the liquid ; its hydrogen is evolved at the platinum. So long as there is fluid for decomposition, and so long as contact between the metals is maintained, these phenomena will continue. During the continuance of these chemical actions, the metals as well as the interposed fluid are supposed to be in a peculiar molecular condition, upon which the developement of force in a current form depends. Commencing from the immersed portion of the zinc, each particle, whether of metal or fluid, communicates its peculiar state to that which succeeds it, until tin- whole circuit, from the zinc through the fluid to the platinum, and back again to the zinc, is in the same, state, one, namely, of polarity or elrrtncal fm- sion. A similar state may be induced in glass, sealing-wax, kc. by friction ; or in two dissimilar metals in intimate contact, by beat- ing them at the place of junction; or in one metal, as a coil of platinum wire, by heating it unequally (thermo-electricity). The simple contact, indeed, of two plates of different metals with per-