48 DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TISSUES FROM CELLS, [chap. i. by areolar tissue and blood-vessels, which are foreign to the true adipose cells ; and, in the grey nervous matter, vessels and nerve tubes exist between the cells. The sclerous tissue (<rz/.7]oog, hard,) contains a large proportion of inorganic material, to which it owes its hardness; it differs very materially from all the other tissues, excepting cartilage and fibro- cartilage, which, as regards hardness, might be classed with it. The compound tissues are those, the elementary parts of which are made up of two distinct tissues. Thus both muscle and nerve are composed of parallel fibres or threads, each fibre being com- pound ; in muscle, it is composed of homogeneous membrane, dis- posed like a tube, containing a fleshy (sarcous) substance, arranged in a particular manner, which is the seat of the vital properties of the tissue; and, in nerve, the fibres are composed of similar tubes of homogeneous membrane containing an oleo-albuminous substance, neurine. Fibro-cartilage is also properly a compound texture, being made up of white fibrous tissue and cartilage ; it is employed almost exclusively in the mechanism of the joints of the skele- ton, in which it is associated with bone, cartilage, and liga- ments. Of the developement of the tissues from cells.—At the earliest period of embryonic life, the process of organization has advanced to so slight an extent, that the variety of textures above described has not yet appeared. The prevailing mode, in which the developement of animals takes place, is by the formation, within the parent, of a body containing the rudiments of the future being, as well as a store of nutrient material sufficient to nourish the embryo for a longer or shorter period. This body is called the ovum or egg. It is of that form which, in a former page (p. .9, fig. 1), has been described and delineated as the simplest which organization produces. It con- sists of a vesicular body filled by a fluid, and enclosing another, within which is a third, consisting of one or more minute, but clear and distinct granules. The first, or the vitelline membrane of the ovum, is the wall of a cell; it is composed ot homogeneous membrane: the second, or the germinal vesicle of the egg, is the nucleus of the first: and the third, which is called by embryologists the germinal spot, is a nucleolus to the second. It appears, from the researches of Wagner and Barry, that the nucleus or germinal vesicle precedes the formation of the vitelline membrane, but the precise relation as to the period of its formation of the nucleolus or germinal spot to the nucleus has not yet been satisfactorily