2 ULTIMATE FACTS—THEORIES- [iNTROD. uncomplicated, incapable of further subdivision, and fundamental; and this we are contented to receive as an ultimate fact, the result of a law in constant and universal operation. The accumulation of observations and experiments affords us Experience; points out the ordinary succession of phenomena, and teaches us the ways of Nature. If these phenomena are found to present a certain uniformity, we are authorized to refer them to the operation of one common Cause, and we are thus led to the expression of the Law which regulates their occurrence. Proceeding in this way, we are enabled to explain the whole train of phenomena which have been investigated,—That is, to devise a Theory which developes the rationale of their occurrence. But sometimes our experiments and observations throw an im- perfect light upon the phenomena which are the subjects of in- vestigation ; or the latter are so remote, or so little under our control, as to render both observation and experiment extremely difficult, and, in some cases, impossible. The “ instances” which we are enabled to collect, are consequently dubious and ob- scure, and point darkly, or not at all, to ultimate facts; they present little or no general resemblance, and cannot be properly associated together. Here is no foundation on which to build a theory : but great advantage may be gained, if, with the little light we derive from these particular observations, aided by previous knowledge of general laws, we can frame an hypothesis, offering some explanation of the phenomena. The adoption of such an hypothesis, even for a temporary purpose, will “ afford us motives for searching into analogies,” may suggest new modes of observa- tion and experiment, and “ may serve as a scaffold for the erection of general laws.” Previously to the time of Lavoisier, chemists were perfectly fami- liar with the occurrence of combustion under various circumstances; but the opinions (hypotheses) which prevailed as to the real nature of this process, afforded a very unsatisfactory explanation of it. Subsequently, however, by the labours of Lavoisier, Davy, and others, this complex phenomenon has been observed in all its phases; it has been carefully analysed, and has been proved to occur in all cases, where substances possessed of strong chemical attractions, or different electrical relations, are brought within mu- tual influence. The ultimate fact, thus arrived at, is, that intense chemical combination always gives rise to the evolution of heat, and, in many instances, to that of light also. Again, a great number of observations have shewn that bodies