421 chap, xiv.] LYMPHATICS OF THE SKIX. able from coagulated albumen or fibrine by its being readily soluble in caustic fixed alkalies, but not in caustic ammonia. The ashes of hair amount, according to Vauquelio, to one and a half per cent, of its weight; and contain oxide of iron, a trace of oxide of manganese, of sulphate, phosphate, and carbonate of lime, and of silica. Black hair contains most iron, and light hair least.* Hairs, when dry and warm, are easily rendered electrical. They readily attract moisture from the atmosphere, and no doubt from the body also, yielding it again by evaporation, if the air lie dry. When moist, they elongate considerably ; a property which Saus- sure took advantage of in the construction of his hygrometer, in which a human hair, by its elongation and shortening in moisture and dryness, is made to turn a delicate index. The shape of the hairs in different situations offers some variety. In general, they taper towards their free end. Those of the head are often not cylindrical, but compressed on one or both sides, so that their transverse section is reniform or oval. The eye-brows and eve-lashes taper towards both extremities. Hairs also vary in being lank or woolly, permanent or deciduous. The frizzled hair of the negro is one of his most remarkable characteristics, but has all the essential structural characters of the hairs of the other races. The diseased condition called plica Polohim is a matting toge- ther of the hairs, from the effusion of a glutinous matter, probably from the cutaneous glands. It is said that hairs so affected bleed, if cut close to the skin. This, if true, may result from a morbid elongation of the vascular papilla: at their roots. In the whiskers of large animals these papilke are so long, that they are cut and bleed if the whiskers are shaved off. In some regions of the skin it appears certain that a lymphatic network exists immediately under the surface of the cutis, probably under its basement membrane. Mercury injected into this network through a puncture in the cuticle passes readily into the neighbour- ing lymphatic trunks, and removal of the cuticle does not injure its meshes. These circumstances may be observed in the penis, scrotum, and nipple: but it is probable that the network sometimes exhibited by this procedure in other parts of the skin, is a falla- cious appearance due to the mercury having insinuated itself between the cutis and cuticle, in the furrows at the base of the papillary structure; for it does not find its way into the lymphatic trunks, and is deranged by a complete separation of the cuticle.--f* * Hiity’ Mil Her, p. 424-5, quoted from Berzelius. + Cycl. of Anat. and IMiys. ; art. Lacteal and Lymphatic System : by Mr. Lane.