9 OF ORGANIZED BODIES. urrRob.j Ini- succeeded in the synthesis of any of the true proximate prin- ciples; and, indeed, it is very questionable whether any of those products of a vital chemistry will ever be produced elsewhere, than in the living organism. The formation of urea, a secondary or- ganic compound, has been effected by Wohler from the eyanate of ammonia, by depriving it of a little ammonia through the action of heat. And it must he admitted, as no unimportant step in the '■synthesis of organic compounds, that nitrogen gas has been found to unite with charcoal, under the influence of carbonate of pota-sa sat a red heat. The cyanide of potassium, which is thus formed, .yields ammonia, when decomposed by water; so that cyanogen, and, through cyanogen, ammonia, can be primarily derived from their respective elements contained in the inorganic world.* Allan- toin, an analogous compound to urea, and formic acid, have like- wise been artificially produced. We proceed from this review of the chemical constitution of ■ organic and inorganic substances, to compare them together in other r respects. In examining an organic substance which is organized, i. e. so i constructed as to form part of a living organism, we find it to pos- •sess very distinctive characters. It generally contains water in considerable proportion; its form is more or less rounded and free from angularity, and it is never crystallized. When considerable i hardness or density is required, the quantity of water is small, and an inorganic material is combined with the organic matter; as, in l bones, phosphate of lime with the gelatine of tlie bone, or. in plants, silex with their epidermic tissues. An organized body is composed of parts, distinct from each other in structure and function, and it may be subdivided into a series of textures, each differing from the others in physical and vital proper- ties. The existence of a great variety of textures, in an animal, is an indication of a high degree of organiza- tion. Among the lowest organized creatures there is much uniformity of structure, although variety of parts or organs. Still these creatures by their actions show that materials of dif- ferent properties must exist throughout their bodies. I he simplest and most elementary organic form, with which we are acquainted, is that of a cell, containing another within it (nucleus), 1(U»- ««> uudeolu*. which again contain* a granular body (nucleoli/.*). (Fig. | ) * (milium's CI ami* try, j». 709.