161 DISTRIBUTION OF MUSCLE. tBAP. VII.] ; corroborate it : “ When the nervi vagi are pinched, one sudden f action of the fibres of the oesophagus ensues, and, presently after, a second, of a slower character, may be observed to take place.1’* ! The characters of these movements would appear to indicate the i existence of both varieties of fibre. The cross stripes on the fibres of the heart are not usually so regular, or distinct, as in those of the voluntary muscles. They are often interrupted, or even not visible at all. In some of the lower animals their sarcous elements never form transverse stripes. These fibres are usually smaller than the average diameter of those of the voluntary muscles of the same subject by two-thirds, as stated I'by Mr. Skey; and in most parts of the parietes of this viscus they are not aggregated in parallel sets, but twine and change their rela- tive position. This may be seen in a well-boiled heart. Striped jb fibres have been found in the iris, in the small muscles of the ear, I and in those muscular fasciculi that surround the urethra imme- t diatcly in front of the prostate. They are also found in the |‘Sphincters of the anus and vagina. The unstriped fibre is met with in the alimentary canal, and con- stitutes the double layer investing that tube. It also forms the muscular coat of the bladder, and that of the uterus. The dartos owes its contractility to the presence of fibres of this variety; which, consequence of their admixture with a great abundance of areolar I tissue, have been often overlooked. But they may be detected by -he addition of acetic acid, which, by bringing into view the peculiar ’orpuscles they contain, distinguishes them from both the white and yellow fibrous elements of the areolar tissue. A very distinct peri- staltic contraction may be often discerned in the dartos, extending tcross the raping of the scrotum, and too similar to the contrac- i .ion of unstriped muscle to be mistaken. The fibres which have been described as peculiar to the dartos S-^eem to be nothing more than a certain modification of the areolar issue in that region. The erection of the penis may be, in part, >wiug to the compression exerted on the superficial veins of the irgan by a continuation of a structure analogous to the dartos, vliich is continued over the base of the penis under the skin. The “Wtion of the nipple also occurs, on any mechanical irritation, with ‘ motion so very like muscular contraction, that a layer of these •fight perhaps be found under the skin of that region. And it nay be matter of question how far the general contractility of Physiology, 3d ed. p. 41.