INNERVATION. 390 CHAP. XII. The consentaneous action of symmetrical parts is no doubt due to a similar cause to that by which most of the sympathetic actions are excited, and more especially in those parts where symmetry of ac- tion is constant, although liable to be interrupted by the influence of the will. A distinct class of sympathetic actions consists of those in which certain parts enlarge or become developed simultaneously with, and to a certain extent in effect of, the increase of others. The penis, the beard, the vocal organs, experience a marked increase of de- velopement at the adult period of life simultaneously with the enlargement of the testes; and, it may be added, in effect of their increase, because the early removal of these organs prevents the growth of the others. And so likewise as the ovaria are developed, the uterus, the vulva, the mammse, increase in size ; the ovarian and utei-ine irritation which accompanies the menstrual flux causes enlarge- ment of the breasts, which subsides as soon as that period has gone by. The various examples enumerated in the preceding paragraphs may be classed under three heads: first, sympathies between dif- ferent individuals; secondly, those which affect the mind, and, through it, the body; and, thirdly, those which are strictly organic, and therefore physical. Of the first class of sympathies we can offer no physical explana- tion. Whether the nervous s}rstem of one individual can directly affect that of another, or whether the effect is produced on the ima- gination, and afterwards on the nervous system, are questions still sub judice. The serpent fascinates his prey, apparently by the power of his eyes, and it is well known that one .man can exert a marked control over another by a mere look; and in the same way man can control other animals, even the fiercest carnivora, by a firm and decided glance of the eyes. It is no explanation of sympathetic phenomena of this kind to ascribe them to the effect of a tendency to imitation. Imitation is voluntary; these actions are involuntary, or take place even in despite of the will.* In the second class of sympathetic phenomena, an affection of the mind is a necessary link. But why that affection of the mind should produce its peculiar effect is a question of difficult solution. Why should the perception of certain odours produce in one case increased action of the salivary glands, and in the other case cause syncope ? The only reply which can be made to this question is, that in these instances the impression on the sensorium causes a change there analogous to that which an original affection of the mind of similar * Bostock’s Physiology, vol. iii. p. 227.