INNERVATION. 288 CHAP. X. groove between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus. This is called tecnia semicircularis. It may be described as connected with the corpus mamillare, in much the same way as the anterior pillar of the fornix. Traced from this point, it is found to penetrate the optic thalamus following the general course of the anterior pillar of the fornix, but slightly diverging from it, and to emerge from the thalamus in the anterior part of the groove between it and the corpus striatum, whence it passes backwards, outwards, and down- wards into the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. Other structures exist in the brain, which seem likewise to act ] as commissures to the parts between which they are placed. Thus, between the crura cerebri a layer of fibrous matter, mingled with a few vesicles, is placed, which fills up the angle formed at their divergence ; this layer is remarkable for being perforated by numerous foramina, which give passage to the blood-vessels of the locus niger. It is called the pons Tarini; it probably connects the gray matter of the crura. The innermost fibres of the optic tracts are evidently commis- sural. These fibres form an arch, which crosses the tuber cinereum. In the mole, they are the only fibres of the optic tracts existing: those which form the optic nerves are not present. These fibres connect the quadrigeminal tubercles and the geniculate bodies of opposite sides. The tuber cinereum is a remarkable layer of vesicular matter, with which nerve-tubes freely intermingle, which extends from the mamillary bodies forwards to the posterior reflection of the corpus callosum, and has intimate connexions with the anterior pillars of the fornix, the optic tracts, the septum lucidum, and, at the floor of the third ventricle, with the optic thalami. An iufun- dibuliform tube passes from it down towards the pituitary gland, which is situate in the sella Turcica. It is curious how few are the fibres which seem to connect the cerebrum and cerebellum. The only ones to which this office can be assigned are those which form the processus cerebelli ad testes. Hence these structures may more fitly be denominated cercbro-cercbellar commissures. They extend between the cere- bellum on the one hand, and the optic tubercles and thalami on the other. Of the manner in which the commissures connect the various parts between which they are placed, it is difficult to form an exact opinion. Are the commissural fibres directly continuous with those of the segments which they unite ? or do they inter-