CHAP. XI. 336 INNERVATION. When the polarity of the cord is greatly excited by strychnine or other substances, or when tetanus exists, all parts of the surface are equally capable of exciting reflex actions. The least touch will cause them, not only in the limb touched, but in all that side of the trunk, or even throughout the whole body. So general is the excit- ation, that the least impression made on the peripheral extremity of a sensitive nerve in any part of the body is instantly converted into muscular spasm, more or less general. A slight current of air, in tetanus, is sufficient to excite general spasm. Muller remarks, that, in such states of the cord, the reflex actions excited by stimulating the nerves themselves are much less than those produced by ex- citation of the surface. The readiness with which a physical change, induced in one part of the centre, is propagated to others, whether above or below it, is due no doubt to the vesicular matter. An experiment made by Van I)een illustrates this statement. If, in an animal poisoned by strychnine, the cord be divided in its entire length along the median line, leaving only a slight bridge of gray matter, stimuli applied to any part of the surface will exhibit as extensive reactions as if the cord were entire. It is evident that the only medium of commu- nication between the opposite halves, must be the small portion of vesicular matter left undivided. Impressions conveyed to the cord by the posterior roots of any of its nerves, may be reflected to the corresponding motor nerves, and cause movement, or may extend irregularly along the posterior horns of gray matter and stimulate the nerves implanted in them, and thus give rise to new sensations, which may be referred to other and even distant parts of the body. The hypothesis, under consideration, affords us an explanation, more satisfactory than any other, of the paralytic state of the sphinc- ter ani in brain disease, already referred to, as well as in that of the spinal cord. This muscle is certainly chiefly under the influence of the will. In ordinary cases of diseased brain where the lesion is con- fined to one side, the centre of volition is not sufficiently impaired to affect its influence upon the sphincter. In graver lesions, however, although the will may still continue to exert its control upon one side of the body, it loses its power over the sphincter, which is not excitable by any stimulus. In disease of the spinal cord, there is para- lysis of the sphincters if the lesion involve a sufficient portion of the cord’s substance, in whatever region of the cord it may exist. Even when the lesion is situate high up in the neck, or in the dorsal region, leaving the lumbar portion perfectly whole, the sphincter