319 CHAP. xi.J OFFICE OF TIIE POSTERIOR COLUMNS. anterior or posterior columns were irritated,* much stronger mo- tions being excited by the posterior than by the anterior columns. It is clear, then, that we must not draw any other conclusion from experiment than that the antero-lateral columns appear to be motor in their function. Respecting their sensitive power we gain no infor- mation from this source; and it must be confessed that our know- ledge is no more advanced by it as regards the posterior columns. We are much disposed to think that the antero-lateral columns are the centres of the main actions of the cord, whether mental or physical. Both roots of the nerves are connected with these co- lumns, and therefore fibres of sensation and of motion must be found in them. These columns are always proportionate to the nerves which arise from them : they enlarge when the nerves are large, ami contract when the nerves diminish in size. The pos- terior columns, on the other hand, are of uniform dimension throughout nearly the entire length of the cord, although the poste- rior roots of the nerves exhibit considerable difference in point of size in different regions. We venture to suggest that the posterior columns may have a function different from any hitherto assigned to them. They may be in part commissural between the various segments of the cord, and in part subservient to the function of the cerebellum in regu- lating and co-ordinating the movements necessary for perfect loco- motion. The analogy of the brain, in which the various segments are connected by longitudinal commissures, suggests the probable ex- istence of fibres similar in office for the spinal cord. If we admit such fibres to lx* necessary to ensure harmony of action between the several segments of the encephalon, there are as good grounds for supposing their existence in the cord, which in reality may lx* regarded as consisting of a number of ganglia, each a centre of innervation to its proper segment of the body, and therefore re- quiring some special connecting fibres to secure consentaneous action with the rest. The attribute of locomotive power rests upon the connexion of the posterior columns with the cerebellum, and the probable influ- ence of that organ over locomotion. If the cerebellum be the regulator of locomotive actions, it seems reasonable to suppose that those columns of the cord which mainly pass into it, should enjoy a similar function; that, as they are the principal medium through which the cerebellum is brought into connexion with the cord, it * Bee hits translation of Mtiller's Physiology, Second Edit. ]>. 7S)6*.