341 chap. xi.] FUNCTIONS OF THE ENCEPHALON. these limbs the molecular phenomena which characterize passive con- traction continue. It must be remarked, however, that muscles Separated from their proper nervous connexion soon suffer in their nutrition, from the want of that amount of exercise which is neces- sary for it. For this important observation we are indebted to Professor John Reid, who likewise called attention to the confir- matory fact, that, in those palsies with which there is combined more or less irritation of the nervous centre, the muscles do not sutler in their nutrition, in consequence of the exercise they undergo in the startings so frequently excited in them by the central irritation. After these remarks, it is scarcely necessary to add, that we must enter our protest against the doctrine which assigns the spinal cord as the source of muscular irritability. This doctrine, indeed, has but Blender support either in reason or experience. It is contrary to all analogy to assign to oue tissue the power of conferring vital pro- perties on another. If bone, tendon, and cartilage have their dis- tinctive properties, they jmssscss them in virtue of some peculiarity inherent in their mode of nutrition, and do not derive them from any other texture. And, surely, it is too much to suppose that a tissue, like muscle, so complex in its chemical constitution, and so exqui- sitely organized for the developement of its proper force, should be dependent on the nervous system, or a portion of it, for its con- tractile power! Our own experience is quite opposed to the statement of Dr. Hall, that, in cases of palsy dependent on cerebral lesion, the muscles of the affected limbs acquire an increased irritability, from the cord, which he supposes to be tbe source of irritability, remaining intact, while tbe influence of the exhauster of irritability (the brain) is removed. In all our experiments, which have been numerous, we have found the palsied muscles less excitable by the galvanic stimulus than those of the sound side, and the difference has been more manifest the longer the period since the paralytic seizure. Exceptions to this statement, however, are found in those cases in which the paralysis has been accompanied with cerebral irritation sufficient to keep up a state of more or less actice contraction of the affected muscles.* Functione of the Medulla Oblongata, Mesocephale, Corpora Striata, and Optic Thalami.—Although the anatomist may find it conve- nient to describe these parts each by itself, it is impossible, in the consideration of their functions, to separate them completely, they are so closely connected with each other, and the functions of * See also Dr. I’creira’s experiments, Mat. Med. vol. ii. j>. 1301.