LOCOMOTION-. 128 [chap. vi. their osseo-fibrous sheaths in the hand or foot. One layer of the synovial sheath adheres to the wall of the osseo-fibrous canal; the other, to the contained tendon ; and, the free surface being lubricated by synovia, the tendon plays freely within the canal. In deep- seated whitlow, when the inflammation extends to one of these synovial sheaths, and gives rise to the formation of adhesions within its cavity, the motion of the tendon within is completely destroyed, and a stiff finger is the result. Similar sheaths on a larger scale envelope the tendons which pass beneath the annular ligaments of the wrist and ankle. S'//novia.—The synovial membranes, in health, contain only suffi- cient fluid to keep their free surfaces moist. It is, therefore, diffi- cult to collect the synovia in sufficient quantity for examination. It is a transparent, yellowish-white fluid, viscid like the white of an egg, whence its name (aw, cum; ooov, ovum). Lassaigue and Boissel, who have published an analysis of human synovia, state that it does not coagulate spontaneously; that it. is an alkaline fluid, containing albumen and salts, such as arc found in the serum of the blood : and M. L’Heritier has lately analysed two speci- mens of this fluid, and completely confirmed the statement of those chemists.* It is plain, from the description above given, that synovial mem- branes contribute to the locomotive function by lubricating the articular surfaces, so that they may glide smoothly on one another with the least possible friction, and also by facilitating the play of some tendons over prominent surfaces, and of others within sheaths. Serous Membranes.—The movements of the viscera within the great cavities of the trunk are provided for by an arrangement similar to that described in the joints. Between the wall of the cavity and the surface of the contained viscus (the thorax and the lungs, for example,) a closed sac is placed, one layer of which is parietal, and the other visceral. These are respectively attached to the wall of the cavity and to the surface of the viscus by fine areo- lar tissue; and their continuity is shewn at certain reflections, where the one passes into the other. The free surface, as in the synovial membranes, is continually moistened by the proper secretion, which, containing a larger proportion of water than synovia does, resem- bles serum of blood. The serous membranes are, the arachnoid, in the head and spine ; the pleura and pericardium, in the thorax ; the peritoneum, in the abdomen ; and the tunica vaginalis testis, in the * Berzelius, Cheuiie Organ, t. vii.