300 CHAPTER XI. OF THE SPINAL NERVES. OF TIIE ENCEPHALIC NERVES. METHOD OF DE- TERMINING THE FUNCTIONS OF NERVES. OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE SPINAL CORD AND ENCEPHALON. Before we can satisfactorily investigate the functions of the cere- bro-spinal centre, or of its various segments, it will be necessary to give some account of the nerves which are connected with them. These nerves are described in two classes, the spinal and the en- cephalic. The former class consists of all those which arise from the spinal cord, and emerge from the spinal canal through orifices in its wall. The latter consists of those which are connected with the encephalon. Of the Spinal Nerves.—There is a pair of spinal nerves for each pair of intervertebral foramina on the same level, and for those be- I tween the atlas and occiput. We can thus enumerate in all thirty- one pair of nerves having their origin from the spinal cord, exclusive of the spinal accessory nerve, which is connected with the upper part of the cervical region. The spinal nerves have the following very constant characters. Each has its origin by two roots, of which the anterior is distinctly inferior in size to the posterior (fig. 61, p^ a, p. 222). The ligamen- tum denticulatum is placed between these roots. Each root passes out by a distinct opening in the dura mater. Immediately after > its emergence a ganglion is formed on the posterior root, and the anterior root lies imbedded in the anterior surface of the ganglion, and inclosed in the same sheath, but without mingling its fibres with those of the ganglion. Beyond it, the nervous fibres of both roots intermingle, and a compound spinal nerve results. The trunk : thus formed passes immediately through the intervertebral canal, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch (fig. 61, a, p). The former is in general considerably the larger. The latter passes backwards, and sinks in among the muscles of the posterior regions of the trunk. The anterior branches in the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions form large and intricate plexuses, (cervical, axillary, 9