386 INNERVATION. chap. xi. period, one limb contracts on opening, the other on closing, so that the limbs arc made to kick alternately, that which is traversed by the direct current on closing, and that by the inverse current on opening. It is impossible to observe these curious phenomena, whether of the muscular current, or of the effects of electricity on nerves, without perceiving how utterly inexplicable they are by the electrical theory of nervous power, or, indeed, how much opposed they arc to such a view. They serve, in the most remarkable man- ner, to confirm the views which we have advocated in a former chapter, which regard the nervous power as a polar force developed by molecular changes in nerves excited by various stimuli, of which, next to the mental, that of electricity is the most powerful. We have already (p. 244) given the general results of Professor Matteucci’s very interesting series of experiments on the torpedo. We shall content ourselves, now, with remarking that he has succeeded in illustrating very strikingly the marked analogy between the actions of the electrical organ and those of muscle, and the relation which each bears to the nervous system. Both are organized to act in a particular way : the one to develope electricity without any visible change in itself; the other to contract, with a demonstrable evolution of both heat and electricity. Both will manifest their peculiar phenomena by direct irritation, or by indirect irritation through the nerves. Both are brought under the control of the will by the nerves; the section of which paralyses the influence of the will over both, but does not destroy the peculiar power of either. In the electrical fish, irritation of the electrical lobe of the brain is capable of exciting a discharge of the organ ; just as irritation of a segment of the spinal cord causes contraction of the muscles supplied by it. A current of electricity transmitted through the electrical organ or its nerves, causes discharge ; and a similar current sent through a muscle or its nerves, causes it to contract. All the circumstances which modify the nutrition of muscle, will similarly affect that of the electrical organ.* * Traitd des phdnomenes dlectro-physiologiques des animaux, par C. Matteucci; suivi dTtudes anatomiques sur le systeme nerveux et sur Torgane electrique de la Torpille, par Paul Savi. Par. 1844.