243 chap. IX.] NERVOUS FORCE NOT MERE ELECTRICITY. them, and is separated from their central axes by the insulating vstructure. And were the electric current, passing through such | minute conductors as nerve-fibres, of sufficient intensity to magnetize a needle, it is scarcely possible to conceive that it would be com- pletely or perfectly insulated by the delicate membranes which invest the central axis. Yet, without some provision for very eom- , plete insulation of the several conductors in such a bundle as a nervous trunk, it is obvious that disturbances must continually arise i from the secondary currents induced in neighbouring fibres by the electricity passing through those in action. The proofs, therefore, of the passage of an electric current through |;the nerve-fibres during nervous action must be held to be altogether defective. Not only is experimental evidence wanting to support the electrical theory, but certain facts are admitted which greatly invalidate it. Of these, a very important one has been adduced in the preceding paragraph. The following may be added, some of 'which have already been adduced by Muller. 1. The firm application of a ligature to a nerve stops the propa- gation of the nertom power below the points of application, hut not I of electricity. The nervous trunk is as good a conductor of electri- city after the application of the ligature as before it. 2. If a small piece of a nervous trunk be cut out, and be re- h placed by an electric conductor, electricity will still pass along the |! nerve, but no nervous force, excited by stimulus above the section, will be propagated through the conductor to the parts below. 3. Nervous fibre is uot a better conductor of electricity than * < other tissues. Matteucci assigns to muscle a conducting power ' four times greater than that of nerve or cerebral matter; and Weber states that no substance in the human body is so good a conductor as the metals. From our own observations on this sub- f ject, made with the most delicate instruments, we are led to state that both nerve and muscle are infinitely tcorse conductors than I copper, and that we have failed in detecting any appreciable \ difference in the conducting power of these two animal sul>- i stances. In fact, their power of conduction does not rank \ above that of water holding in solution a small quantity of saline I matter. From the preceding review of the arguments for and against the i theory of the identity of the nervous force and electricity, we are ? I«d rather to reject than to adopt it. The same reasons induce us to regard the nervous force as a power developed in the nervous I structure under the influence of appropriate stimuli ; as muscular