343 CHAP. XI.] FUNCTION'S OF TITE ENCEPHALON. vulsive movements in muscular parts which receive nerves from it, and, through the spinal cord, in the muscles of the trunk. Spasm of the glottis, difficulty of deglutition, irregular acts of breathing, result from irritation of the medulla oblongata ; and, if the excite- ment be propagated to the cord, convulsions will become more or less general. If a lesion affect one-half of the medulla oblongata, does it pro- duce convulsions or paralysis on the opposite side of the body! This question may be certainly answered in the affirmative, when the seat of the lesion is in the continuations of the columns of the medulla oblongata above the posterior margin of the pons. It is not so easily solved, however, when the disease is situate below the pons. The results of experiment on this subject are contradictory, owing probably to the extreme difficulty of limiting the injury inflicted to a portion of the medulla on one side; and those of Flourens are of no value for the decision of this question, as it appears that he injured chiefly the restiform bodies. Anatomy suggests, that a lesion limited to either anterior pyramid would affect the opposite side of the trunk, for it is known that such an effect follows disease of the continuation of it in the mesocephale or crus cerebri ; and that lesion limited to the posterior half of the medulla on either side would nffect the Mine side of the bo. ly, no decussation existing between the fibres of opposite resti- form or posterior pyramidal bodies. The irritating or depressing influence of the lesion would probably be extended to the spinal gray matter of the same side. That the medulla oblongata is the channel through which the operations of the brain are associated in voluntary actions with the spinal cord, is shewn by the fact that paralysis of all the muscles of the trunk follows the separation of the latter organ from the former. It seems not improbable that the centre of volition is connected with one or both of the gangliform bodies (corpora striata and optic tha- lami) in which the columns of the medulla oblongata terminate above. When the cerebral hemispheres have been removed, as in Flourens’ and in Magendie’s experiments, the bird is thrown into a deep sleep, a state of stupefaction, and insensibility to surrounding objects. Hut he can maintain his attitude—stand—walk, when first propelled—fly. if thrown into the air. This continuance of the locomotive power implies some degree at least of mental or volitional effort. All the animal’s movements have much of the appearance of’the exercise of will, although, doubtless, many of them are in a great degree excited by physical stimuli. Hence there seems ■ m