236 INNERVATION. [chap. rx. way of a carious tooth occasion toothache by exposing the nerves of its pulp to the irritating action of the air, or of the fluids of the mouth ! And heat is equally injurious to the physical constitution, and consequently to the action, of nerves. The organic change, whatever be its intrinsic nature, which sti- muli, whether mental or physical, produce in a nerve, developes that wonderful power long known to physiologists by the name vis nervosa, the nervous force. This force is more or less engaged in the play of all the vital functions, whether organic or animal. In the former its office is to regulate, control, and harmonize, as will be hereafter explained; in the latter, it is the main-spring of action, without which none of the phenomena can take place. It is the natural excitant of muscular motion, and the display of that won- drous power depends upon its energy. Unless there were vigour in the developement and application of the nervous force, a well- formed muscular system would be of little avail, for it would quickly suffer in its nutrition if deprived of that exercise which is so neces- sary to it. Although the workings of the mind are doubtless independent of the body, experience convinces us that in those combinations of thought which take place in the exercise of the intellect, the nervous force is called into play in many a devious track throughout the in- tricate structure of the brain. How else can we explain the bodily exhaustion which mental labour induces ? The brain often gives way, like an overwrought machine, under the long-sustained exercise of a vigorous intellectual effort; and many a master-mind of the present or a former age has, from this cause, ended his days “ a driveller and a show”. A frequent indication of commencing disease in the brain is the difficulty which the individual feels in “ collecting his thoughts,” the loss of the power of combining his ideas, or im- pairment of memory. I low many might have been saved from an early grave or the madhouse, had they taken in good time the warning of impending danger which such symptoms afford ! The delicate mechanism of the brain cannot bear up long against the incessant wear and tear to which men of great intellectual powers expose it, without frequent and prolonged periods of repose. The precocious exercise of the intellect in childhood is frequently pre- judicial to its acquiring vigour in manhood, for the too early em- ployment of the brain impairs its organization and favours the de- velopement of disease. Emotion, when suddenly or strongly excited or unduly prolonged, is most destructive to the proper texture of the brain, and to the operations of the mind. Our lunatic hospitals