chap. VI!.] REFLEX AM) INSTINCTIVE MOVEMENTS. 109 tion that follows a dash of cold water on the skin, and the writhingg produced by tickling, are instances attended with consciousness. All muscular actions consequent on pain, and which are not the im- mediate act of the will, are similar in kind, though the stimulus pro- ducing them is unnatural. Reflected movements are sometimes called instinctive; but this ! term is better limited to actions resulting from a propensity in the j mind, of the meaning of which we are ignorant, but which we i follow blindly without reference to consequences. Such proponsi- i ties are developed in animals much more than in man ; and in man more during his infancy than in his mature state, when reason : asserts her domination over instinct. Instinct exhibits foresight ; but it is the foresight of the Creator, and not of the creature. It ■ is the reason of God working with the material instruments of the « creature’s reason, independently of the creature’s will. Hence the ) movements consequent on its impulses have all the concatenation and character of movements impelled by reason through the will ; while they are altogether independent of the will. Instinctive i movements approach the most nearly to voluntary ones. Thus passion, emotion, reflected stimulation, and instinctive im- ) pulses will all excite involuntary movements of the voluntary mus- cles ; but, in the natural state of the body, all these causes are found acting in harmony with one another, often conspiring to {produce the same movement. The power of the will to controul ’them is but slight, and in some cases null. It differs with the original strength of that faculty, with the temperament of the individual, and especially with the degree in which it has l»een affected by habit. The power of this law is in nothing more con- • spicuous than in its influence over the human will. A frequent and energetic repetition of voluntary acts of controul over the in- voluntary movements of passion, emotion, and instinct, is invariably followed by an increased power of controul, and vice versd. This also extends (but in a less degree) to those movements of voluntary muscles, consequent on reflex stimulation, which are not essential to life. When movements, which have been at first voluntary, come to be performed more or less unconsciously, they are styled mechanical. A thousand instances of them might be given; all voluntary ones becoming more or less so by habit. The nervous paths through which the mandates of the will pass to the muscles grow more accessible and open by use; and less and less effort of volition becomes necessary to thread them, every time that effort is made.