29 PHYSIOLOGY TO MEDICINE. i INTBOD.] nerve could not Ik* the seat of a very painful disease, for it is itself, in a very great degree, devoid of sensibility. It need hardly be i added, that the operation is discarded. The dangerous disease, to which many children have fallen victims, laryngismus stridulus or crowing inspiration, although ad- mirably described by practical physicians, was never properly un- • derstood until the functions of the laryngeal nerves were clearly . ascertained, and until it had been shewn that spasmodic actions imay be excited by irritation of a remote part, or through a stimulus !reflected from the nervous centre. It is now known, that this ' disease has not its seat in the larynx, where those spasms occur • which excite so much alarm for the fate of the little patient; but that it is an irritation of a distant part, which derives its nerves it from the same region of the cerebro-spinal centres with the larynx, I that the afferent nerves of that part convey the irritation to the I«centre, whence it is reflected by certain efferent nerves to the mus- cles of the larynx. The accurate diagnosis of diseases of the heart rests entirely upon . a correct knowledge of the physiology of that organ. This itnprove- i ment in medicine may be said to date from the time of Harvey, for he I was the first w ho clearly expounded the mechanism of the central I * organ of the circulation. Hut tin* application of auscultation to the i exploration of the sounds developed in its action, and the correct interpretation of those sounds in health by the experiments and observations of the last few years, have almost completely removed ! whatever difficulties stood in the way of the detection of cardiac ; maladies. M e are not less indebted to the illustrious Englishman, who dis- i ■ covered the circulation of the blood, for having paved the way to a rational treatment of aneurismal and wounded arteries by the modern operation of placing a ligature between the heart and the seat of the disease or injury. “ The active mind of John Hunter,” says Mr. Hodgson, “ guided by a deep insight into the powers of the animal (economy, substituted for a dangerous and unscientific operation, an improvement founded upon a knowledge of those laws which influence the circulating fluids and absorbent system; and few of his brilliant discoveries have contributed more essentially to the benefit of mankind.” In investigating the functions of the human body, the physiolo- gist cannot do better than follow the instructions laid down by Haller in the preface to his invaluable work, “ Elementa Physio- logia* Corporis Hnmani.”