INNERVATION. 412 | CHAP. XIV. beneath the true skin, and separable from it; and we have observed single tubules from the plexus penetrating this expansion in their course to the skin. They have then been lost to view. We have hardly been more fortunate in discovering the true termination of the nerves in the nictitating membrane of the eye in the same animal, or in the papillary tissue so largely developed on the thumb at a certain season. In our attempts to follow the nerves for any distance under the papillary structure in the higher animals, the fibrous tissues (and especially the elastic variety), forming the cutis, have been found so much to impede the view, that no satisfactory conclusion has been arrived at. In regard to their presence in the papillae themselves, we can affirm that we have distinctly traced solitary tubules ascending among the other tissues of the papillae about half-way to their summits, but then becoming lost to sight, either by simply ending, or else by losing the white substance of Schwann, which alone enables us to distinguish them in such situations from other textures. Thin vertical sections of perfectly fresh specimens are essential for this investigation, and the observer should try upon them the several effects of acetic acid and solution of potass. In thus describing the nerves of the papillae from our own observations we do not deny the existence of true loop-like terminations as figured by so respectable an authority as Gerber,* but neither do we feel entitled to assent to it. We have in numerous instances failed to detect any nerves at all within the papillae, when such were plainly visible at their base, and when, consequently, the chemical agent employed could scarcely have destroyed their characteristic structure, had they been present. We incline to the belief that the tubules either entirely or in a great measure lose the white substance when within the papillae. We would, however, refer the reader to what will be found respecting the nerves of the papillae of the tongue in the chapter on taste. The essential tissue of the papillae probably exists even where no projections large enough to be called papillae are present. These portions of the skin are more scantily supplied with nerves; and it is probable from this circumstance, as well as from experiments afterwards to be detailed, that the individual nervous tubules are wider asunder, and occupy each a more extensive surface than in parts thickly set with papillae. The cuticle, or epidermis, (fig. 83, a,) like the cutis, varies greatly in its thickness. As its chief use is that of affording protection, it attains most density on parts most exposed to pressure and friction, * General Anatomy, translated by Gulliver.