304 [chap. xi. INNERVATION. First, its anatomy in man.—The origin by a double root denotes a double function. Its peripheral distribution, however, gives more valuable assistance. If distributed to muscles only, it clearly must be motor ; if to sentient surfaces only, sensitive and perhaps excitor ; if to both, motor, and sentient, or excito-motor. Secondly, its anatomy in animals.—-The comparison of the ori- gin and distribution in the lower animals with those in man often throws light on the function, by confirming the result of anatomical investigation in the human subject, or by displaying either a pecu- liar developement of the nerve, in reference to some special function proper to particular animals; or, on the other hand, the non-deve- lopement of a nerve, or of a part of one, where some function may be deficient. The enormous developement of a branch of the fifth nerve in animals with proboscides, or highly tactile snouts,—of a branch of the facial, where such an organ is very moveable,—the small size of the latter nerve where the muscles of the face are few, are instances quite in point. Thirdly, experiment on animals just dead, or on those living.— The irritation of a motor nerve in an animal recently dead causes contraction of the muscles to which it is distributed. The section of one in a living animal paralyses its muscles ; but irritation of the portion below the section causes contraction of those muscles which that segment of the nerve supplies. The simplest way of applying a stimulus for experimental purposes is by passing a galvanic cur- rent from a small battery. If the current be directed through a nerve so that it shall pass along the smallest portion of it, by placing one pole on one side of it, and the other on the opposite, but a little lower down or higher up, we may gain a strong indica- tion of the motor power of the nerve, if contractions are thereby excited. This indication becomes certain if the same effect be produced by galvanizing the nerve in this way, after it has been separated from all connexion with the spinal cord or brain. Such an experiment on a sensitive nerve would produce no motor effect. Matteucci has shewn that to produce the motor effect in a motor nerve, the current must pass along some portion of the nerve-fibre, however small ; and that a current directed precisely at right angles to the fibres will not excite nervous power.* MM. Longet and JNlatteucci affirm that a motor nerve may be distinguished from a compound one by the different effect of open- ing or closing an electric current on each under certain circum- * See an account of Matteucci’s observations on the different effects of electricity on nerves, in the appendix to this chapter.