INNERVATION. [chap. XI. 322 sion of this question, the two following propositions:—1. That the brain, or some part of it, is the sensorium commune ; or, in other words, that mental nervous actions (acts of volition and sensation) cannot take place without the brain. 2. That the vesicular is the truly dynamic nervous matter, the source of all nervous power.* The following hypotheses have been proposed in explanation of these actions. 1. The various muscles and sentient surfaces of the body are connected with the brain by nerve-fibres, which pass from the one to the other. Those fibres destined for, or proceeding from, the trunk to the brain, pass along the spinal cord, so that that organ is in great part no more than a bundle of nerve-fibres going to and from the brain. These fibres are specially for sensation and volun- tary motion. J 13ut, in addition to these, there is another class of fibres proper to the spinal cord and to its intra-cranial continuation, which form a connexion with the gray matter of the cord. Of these fibres, some are afferent or incident, others efferent or reflex, and these two kinds have an immediate but unknown relation to each other, so * The first of these postulates will be considered farther on in this chapter. The second appears to us to have a sufficiently firm foundation to warrant us in assuming its correctness, for the sake of arguing the important question referred to in the text. We shall state briefly here the proofs that the association of the vesi- cular and fibrous matter is necessary to the developement of nervous force. 1. Nerves, when separated for a time from the nervous centre, lose all power of stimulating their muscles to contraction. No irritation, mechanical or electrical, is sufficient to excite them. If a nerve be divided some distance from the centre, the peripheral portion will, after a time, waste, and lose all power of developing nervous force ; but the central portion, which remains in connexion with the centre, retains its nutrition and its vital properties unimpaired. 2. All nervous centres contain vesicular matter, with which nervous fibres freely intermix. 3. The power of a nervous centre appears to be proportionate to the quantity of its vesicular matter. This is well exemplified in the cerebral convolutions, the vesicular surface of which is always in the direct proportion of the developement of mental power ; or, in general terms, the gray matter increases in the exact ratio of the nervous energy. (Grainger.) 4. All nerves appear to arise from vesicular matter. Stilling represents special accumulations of vesicular matter at the origins of the nerves of the medulla oblongata. 5. Nerves, whose power is exalted for some special purpose, have an increased quantity of gray matter at their origin, of which the electric lobe in the torpedo, connected with the origins of the fifth and eighth pairs of nerves, is an extraordinary instance.—See Mr. Grainger’s excellent work on the Spinal Cord, pp. 18-21. mm