15 DEATH. NTKOU.] i race upwards, through generations innumerable, to that which Bret flourished on the earth, we find the true source ot* vital ac- ;ion to he in Him, “ in whom we live, and move, and have our • ,? being. Thus, then, out of the same elements of which the inorganic king- dom consists, God has created a series of material substances, which ,>y their action and reaction with other physical agencies, exhibit, apparently in a spontaneous manner, the phenomena of Life, and [manifest a series of peculiar forces capable of opposing and con- trolling the. other forces of nature. While these substances retain a perfect organization, and are supplied with their proper stimuli, vital actions go on without interruption, and no changes take place. :in the matter of the organism, excepting such as result from its pro|>er affinities. But no sooner is the integrity of its structure destroyed, or the influence of the vital stimuli withdrawn, than taction ceases, the organism dies, and the organic matter yields up its elements to form new compounds, a large proportion of which are inorganic. Many are not content with this simple expression of facts, and *eeek a theory to explain the phenomena of organized bodies, and to account for the mysterious actions of Life. The ingenuity of [philosophers has been not a little taxed for this purpose; and the history of the rise and fall of many an hypothesis, which has been framed upon this subject, affords a salutary warning to those who may be tempted to wander into the regions of speculation and fancy, deserting the safe and beaten path of inductive reasoning. It does not fall within the scope of this work to examine the various theories of Life. < >ne or two, however, we deem it right to notice, with the hope of at once exposing their inadequacy, and elucidating more fully the statement above given respecting Life. From a very early period in the history of natural science, there has been a tendency to ascribe these effects to a certain principle, or Entity, possessing powers and properties which (however men may •try to impress themselves with the contrary notion) entitle it to rank as an intelligent agent. It is true, that, according to most of the advocates of this doctrine, this power is supposed to be superin- tended and controlled by the Deity himself, and, by this supposi- tion, they have screened themselves against the accusation of attri- buting to a creature the powers of the Creator. A little examination of this doctrine will shew, that it has no pretensions to the title of a theory. Aristotle attributed the organization of animals and vegetables,