THE CIRCULATION IN TIIE BRAIN. 293 CHAP. X.] in the fissures of Sylvius, and supply the outer convolutions of the anterior lobes, and the principal portion of the middle lobes. At the inner extremity of each fissure of Sylvius numerous small branches of these arteries penetrate, to be distributed to the corpus striatum. The choroid arteries which supply the choroid plexus sometimes arise from these arteries, but also occasionally come from the carotid itself. The posterior communicating artery is an ana- stomotic vessel, which passes backwards along the inner margin of the middle lobe on the base of the brain, and communicates with the posterior cerebral artery, a branch of the basilar. The vertebral arteries, having passed through the canals in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras, enter the cranium through the occipital foramen towards its anterior part. In their ascent they incline towards each other in front of the medulla oblongata, and at the posterior margin of the pons they coalesce to form a single vessel, the basilar, which extends the whole length of the pons. The vertebral arteries furnish the anterior and posterior spinal arteries, and the inferior cerebellar arteries. These last vessels arise from the vertebrals very near their coalescence, and pass round the medulla oblongata to reach the inferior surface of the cerebellum, to which they are principally distributed. The basilar artery sends numerous small vessels to penetrate the pons, and at its anterior extremity divides into four arteries, two on each side: these are, the two superior cerebellar, ami the two posterior cerebral arteries. The superior cerebellar arteries pass backwards round the crus cerebri, parallel to the fourth nerve, and divide into numerous branches on the upper surface of the cerebellum, some of which anastomose with branches of the inferior cerebellar artery over the posterior margin of the cerebellum. Some branches of these arte- ries are distributed to the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral arteries are the largest branches of the basilar. They diverge and pass upwards and backwards round the crus cerebri, and reach the inferior surface of the jw>sterior lobe, anastomosing in the median fissure with ramifications of the anterior cerebral, and on the outside with branches of the middle cerebral arteries. Numerous small vessels pass from this artery at its origin, and penetrate the interpeduncular space, and one or two are distributed to the velum. Shortly after its origin the artery receives the posterior communicating branch from the carotid. A remarkable freedom of anastomosis exists between the arteries