418 INNERVATION. [chap. XIV. appears here and there to be tubular, e. The shaft is much narrower than the bulb, and is produced by the rather abrupt condensation and elongation into hard fibres of the cells, both of those which contain pigment and those which do not. These fibres may be demon- strated by simply crushing small frag- ments of hair, but they become more conspicuous when the tissue is softened by a strong acid. The granules of pig- ment assume a linear arrangement be- tween the fibres, which are firmly united into a solid rod by a material similar, it may be supposed, to that which cements the scales of the cuticle. The central series of cells just men- tioned, when filled with pigment, seems less disposed to become fibrous than those around ; and some authors have described it as a medulla, in distinction from the fibrous part of the shaft, which they then term cortex. But the tubular character, however constant in the hair of many animals, is very variable in human hair, both in different situations, and in the same hair at different points of its length, as may be seen very well by means of transverse sections (fig. 88, a, b).* The human hair has a proper bark, or cortex, formed in the follow- ing way. A single layer of the cells immediately surrounding those about to form the fibrous tissue of the shaft are seen near the bottom of the follicle to assume an imbricated arrangement (fig. 87, c), and Bulb of a small black hair, from the scrotum, seen in section, a. Basement membrane of the follicle b. Layer of epidermic cells resting upon it, and be- coming more scaly sis the; c, a layer of imbricated cel the outer lamina, or cortex, of the hair. These imbricated cells arc seen more flattened and compressed, the higher they are traced on the hull). Within the cortex is the proper sub- stance of the hair, consisting at the base, where it rests on the basement membrane, of small angular cells scarcely larger than their nuclei. At d, these cells arc more bulky, and the bulb consequently thicker j there is also pigment developed in many of them more or less abundantly. Above d, they assume a decidedly fibrous cha- racter, and become condensed, e. A mass of cells in the axis of the hair, much loaded with pigment. * Transverse sections of extreme thinness may be made by fixing a lock of hair between two pieces of card or wood in a vice, and then shaving it with a razor. In many animals, as the horse and dog, the hairs are tubular. In others they present a central series of cells, round or compressed, with or without pigment, as in the cat and mouse. In others, again, their external surface is regularly marked by annular, and sometimes toothed projections, as in the Indian hat: and nu- merous other varieties might he enumerated. The quills of the porcupine, and the feathers of birds, are modifications of the epidermic tissue, and, in their essential characters, are closely allied to hairs. See Busk, in Microsc. Journal.