INNERVATION. [chap. x. 2G6 form. Posterior view of the medulla oblon- The restiform bodies form the lateral and posterior part of the medulla o longata. They arc cylindrical in Below they are distinctly continuous with the antcro-lateral and posterior columns of the cord. As they ascend they diverge and leave a considerable space between them, which is the fourth ventricle. Each restiform body passes into the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, forming a considerable portion of the crus, the stalk of fibrous matter around which the hemisphere is formed. These bodies are, therefore, the bond of connexion between the rebellum and the spinal cord, for w cc- iliich [Tthe 'postoior feurrmrr!’ reason they have been appropriately de- bodies, composed of ec, posterior columns, gignated 1)roceSSUS cerebdli Cld Medullam and (id, lateral part of the antcro-1 columns of the cord. an. Olivar as seen on the floor of the fourth ventricle, obloiKJCXtd'fH. CO- The posterior median fissure the seventh parr of nerves. bounded on each side by a small lumn, not exceeding one-eiglith of an inch in breadth. These co- lumns are called the posterior pyramidal bodies. Their outer limit and line of demarcation from the restiform bodies is indicated by a superficial groove, along which a separation of the two struc- tures readily takes place, in a preparation previously hardened in spirit. The olivary bodies are oval projections on each side of the ante- rior pyramids. When the latter have been carefully removed it may be demonstrated that these bodies are continuous with the cen- tral part of the medulla oblongata. They are coated on the out- side with fibrous matter, within which is a folded lamella or capsule of vesicular substance, enclosing a white nucleus. By sli- cing off a layer of this body even with the surface of the medulla, the capsule may be seen disposed as a wavy line, surrounding an oval space of white matter. If examined in transverse section, this wavy line of vesicular matter is still apparent, but it is incom- plete behind and within; and the same may be observed ou a vertical section of the olivary body. This lamina is called the corpus dentatum. When the pyramids are very largely developed these oval pro-1 jections on the surface of the medulla oblongata do not appeal'-1