[chap. V. LOCOMOTION. 10G larity of the subject. In the female, for instance, they are less dis- tinct than in the male; in the powerfully muscular man they are at the maximum of developement. As Sir Charles Bell has re- marked, a person of feeble texture and indolent habits has the bone smooth, thin, and light; while with the powerful muscular frame is combined a dense and perfect texture of bone, where every spine and tubercle are well developed. And thus the inert and mechanical provisions of the bone always bear relation to the muscular power of the limb; and exercise is as necessary to the perfect constitution of a bone, as it is to the perfection of muscle. It is an interesting fact, that if a limb be disused, from paralysis, the bones waste as well as the muscles. Of the Vessels of Bone.—We now proceed to inquire into the manner in which the nutrition of bone is provided for. A texture containing so much animal matter, and needing a constant supply of inorganic material likewise, must necessarily be largely supplied with blood, the common source of the materials of all the tissues. The blood-vessels of bone are very numerous, as may be satis- factorily seen on examining a well-injected specimen. The arteries are in great part continued from those of the periosteum: those which penetrate the cancellated texture of the extremities of the long bones are very large, and ramify freely among the cancelli. The membrane of the medulla which is contained in the shaft, receives its blood from a special artery that pierces the compact . tissue through a distinct canal, known as that for the nutritious artery. This vessel divides into two immediately on entering the medullary canal; of these, one ascends, the other descends, and both break up into a capillary network, anastomosing with the plexuses in the extremities of the bone, derived from the arteries that penetrate there. From the copious vascular network thus formed within the bone, the innermost part of the compact substance of the shaft receives its blood-vessels. In the compact tissue the arteries pass into very narrow capillary canals, most ot which are invisible to the naked eye. In carefully raising the periosteum from a bone that has been subjected to a little maceration, the vessels may be seen in great numbers passing from that membrane into the osseous texture, and many of the larger ones seem to be surrounded by a sheath derived from the periosteum. Similar sheaths may be seen surrounding the vessels of the cancellated texture. I he vascular canals of the compact tissue are styled Ifa vers mu, after their discoverer, Clopton Havers. They are disseminated