23 JNTKOU.] FOOD OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS. nutrient fluid takes place by a general surface. Tlie VoIcojc aloba- t>>r lias no inlet to its interior but through the pores in its walls. | A parasite of the human body, the Acephalocyst, also derives its nutriment by imbibition through its walls. A familiar example is the Acephalocystis endogena, or pill-box hydatid of Hunter. It con- -sists of a globular bag, closed at all points, containing a limpid fluid, capable of growth, and of reproduction by the development of jgetnmules from the inner surface of the sac. '['lie Echinococcus is also nourished by direct absorption into the walls of the globular -sac of which it consists. Some difference may be noticed as regards the nature of the food in animals and plants. The former derive their nutriment entirely from the organized world, unless, indeed, we suppose that the nitro- gen absorbed in respiration contributes to their sustenance. Plants appropriate inorganic elementary matters for food, as carbon, ear- i bonic acid, ammonia, &c. Inorganic matter,” says Liebig, “ affords i food to plants; and they, on the other hand, yield the means of sub- sistence to animals. The conditions necessary for animal and vege- table nutrition are essentially different. An animal requires for its development, and for the sustenance of its vital functions, a certain class of substances which can only be generated by organic Wings possessed of life. Although many animals are entirely carnivorous, yet their primary nutriment must be derived from plants; for the animals upon which they subsist receive their nourishment from vegetable matter. Hut plants find new nutritive material only in inorganic substances. Hence one great end of vegetable life is to generate matter adapted for the nutrition of animals out of in- organic substances which are not fitted for this purjtose.” The nutrient fluid, however formed, is distributed throughout the textures of the plant, or animal, by vital or physical forces, or by the junction of both; and the function, by which this is effected, is called Circulation. In plants, this function is very simple, and is performed without the agency of a propelling organ ; but, in the greatest number of animals, such an organ, a h art, is the main in- strument in the distribution of the. blood. In animals, then, there is a true circulation ; the fluid setting out from, and returning to, the same place. Hut, in plants, the fluid is found to circulate, or rotate, within the interior of cells, as in Chara and Vallisneria, the fluid of one cell not communicating with that of the adjacent ones, or to pass up from the spongioles in an ascending current, and to descend in another set of vessels. Hut in many simple animals, some ento/.oa, for example, and