| c&ap. VII.J 1G3 TENDONS. M 2 Each one of the elementary fibres now described may be properly I regarded as a distinct and perfect organ. In some of the smaller p-forms of animal life, we have examples of a striped muscle consist- ing of a single fibre; and not only so, but this fibre reduced to a single series of sarcous elements, or a fibrilla. llut in all the i larger animals, and in the human body, with which we are specially m concerned, solitary fibres never occur: they are always aggregated : iu parallel series of greater or smaller size, and associated with other tissues, which minister to their nutrition, or to their mechanical con- nexion either to one another or to neighbouring parts. Thus the ^•compound organs termed muscle* are formed. In these, the angular figure of the fibres results from their contact. The sets in which they are packed usually contain ten, twenty, thirty, or more ; these again being united into larger sets, and so on, -so as to form the variously sized fasciculi and lacerti of Prochaska and others, until the whole muscle is formed, consisting, it may l*e, of very many thousands. Though the fibres of a small set are always parallel, and the primary sets usually so, it often happens tlrnt the larger sets are placed obliquely to one another, and there- fore do not act in the same direction ; and, even when all are parallel to one another, they are often oblique to the cord or tendon their force acts upon. Such muscles are styled doubly or singly penni- ' form, from their resemblance to the plume on a writing-quill. All such arrangements, infinitely varied, are mechanical contrivances by which symmetry of form, or extent of motion, is obtained at the expense of power. White fibrous tissue reaching from the end of a muscular fibre to some structure which is to serve as a fixed attachment for it, or which it is intended to move, is called a tendon. The fibrous tissue thus running from many contiguous fibres (as those of a whole muscle) is usually united into a single tendon. This may l>e Jameliated, cordiform, See., according to the arrangement of the muscular fibres themselves (see p. 71). Tendinous fibres are much less bulky than the muscular fibres of which they are the prolongation ; and from this result many conse- quences. Tendons are employed for symmetry, and where muscular structure would be useless, from the mechanical impossibility of more1 than a certain amount of motion in a part. Moreover, where a muscle consisting of a large number of fibres has to be attached to a *arJfc‘ surface, the tendinous fibres are diffused ; but, if the same muscular substance has to be fixed to a small point of bone, the temlon must be collected into a cord. Now, it would be impossible