[chap. ix. 238 INNERVATION. fectly clean surfaces is sufficient to excite a state of polarity in each. In the developement of the galvanic current in the battery, one plate or metal may be regarded in the light of the generator of force, the other as its propagator or conductor. The former has therefore been called the positive, the latter the negative pole. The absolute contact of the metallic plates themselves is not necessary. It will suffice if they be connected by any material which is itself capable of serving as a conductor. A piece of platinum wire, for instance, extended between the two plates, although it actually connects only a very small portion of the surface of each, will answer the purpose. PTom such an arrangement it may be con- cluded that, during the developement of the galvanic current, the conducting metal is in a state similar to that of the generating plate, for the temperature of the conducting wire is raised considerably ; and, when there is much energy of action, the wire is melted. The existence of a galvanic current is readily detected, even when of feeble intensity, by certain phenomena, which are now familiar to those who conduct such investigations. If the poles of a battery be connected by conducting wires with a delicate galvanometer (electro-dynamic multiplier), the needle is obviously deflected during the passage of the current, and returns to its previous position whenever the current is interrupted. By making and breaking the connexion, in rapid succession, the needle moves to and fro with corresponding rapidity and energy. So delicate is this test of gal- vanic action, that it will detect even the very feeble current which results from the heating of two dissimilar metals, or from the par- tial heating of a coil of platinum wire. As this is the most delicate test, so is it also the most constant, and it has the additional ad- vantage of enabling the observer to judge of the direction of the current from the position which the needle assumes under the electric influence. When a galvanic current is made to pass through certain liquids, as dilute sulphuric acid, solution of iodide of potassium, of sulphate of copper, &c., it induces such an amount of disturbance of the attractions existing in them as to cause their decomposition, and give rise to chemical actions of a similar kind to those which take place in the generation of the current (electrolysis). This, there- fore, becomes a test of the presence of galvanic action. The decom- position of iodide of potassium will detect the existence of a current developed by a single pair of plates, and iodine will be set free at the positive pole.