166 CHAP. VII. LOCOMOTION. activity. This idea is supported by the fact that scarcely any areolar tissue exists in the heart, or in the unstriped muscles gene- rally. In the heart, though the contraction is powerful, it is instan- taneous, or nearly so, and therefore probably more uniformly dif- fused, so that neighbouring fibres must be less moved on one another than in the more sustained contraction of a voluntary muscle. Moreover, the mutual intertwining of even the elementary fibres in this organ is in many parts of it so intricate, as to contribute much to their mutual support; and, in the other involuntary muscles, the contractions are slowly and evenly progressive along the fibres of the same set. Of the Blood-vessels of Muscles.—The arteries and veins of muscles commonly run together ; and most of the arterial branches, to within two removes from the capillaries, are accompanied by two vena comites. They invariably pass more or less across the direction of the fibres, divide and subdivide, first in the intervals between the larger sets, then between the smaller sets, till the ultimate twigs insinuate themselves between the fibres composing the smallest bundles, and break up into their capillary terminations. In this course the vessels supply the areolar tissue, their own coats, and the attendant nerves. The capillary plexus of the areolar membrane consists of irregular but pretty equal-sized meshes, and contrasts strongly with that of the muscular tissue itself. The proper capillaries of muscle are quite characteristic in their arrangement, so that a person, who has once seen them, can never afterwards mistake them. They consist of longitudinal and trans- verse vessels: the longitudinal always following the course of the elementary fibres, and lying in the intervals between them ; the transverse being short communications placed at nearly equal dis- tances between the longitudinal ones, and crossing nearly, or quite, transversely over or under the fibres. The manner in which the longitudinal vessels are placed in relation to the fibres, is seen in fig. 36, represented as they are seen on a transverse section. They usually occupy the interstice between three or more fibres, but sometimes also the space between the contiguous surfaces of two fibres. The length of the longitudinal vessels does not usually ex- ceed the twentieth of an inch ; in other words, the terminal twigs of the artery and vein pertaining to the same capillary are seldom hir- ther than that apart. The length of the transverse anastomosing capillaries necessarily varies with the thickness of the fibres over which they pass (fig. 36, n, a').