120 LOCOMOTION. [chap. v. cells, corresponding in size with those of the temporary cartilage, and having their nuclei disposed vertically, and of the same shape and dimensions as the lacunae of bone. They are still granular, however, and no pores can be seen emerging from them. The cells are united together, and the lines of their junction have for the most part disappeared. The curvilinear border of each can be still seen, however, at its union with the central lamina, l. In the cancelli, i. i. i., the granular blastema exists in great abundance. It hence appears, that, after the ossification of the intercellular substance, the rows of cartilage-cells arrange themselves on the inner surface of the newly formed cancelli, and become ossified, with the exception of their nuclei, which remain granular, and sub- sequently form the lacuna of bone ; and that a new substance, or blastema, appears within the cancelli, from which, probably, vessels are developed, and the future steps in the growth of the bone proceed. The cancelli when first formed are closed cavities. At a subse- quent period they appear to communicate, and thus to form the cancelli and Haversian canals of perfect hone ; a complete net- work of blood-vessels becoming developed within them at the same time. The subsequent progress of ossification seems to consist essen- tially of a slow repetition, on the entire vascular surface of the bone, of that process which has been now briefly described. It is probable that new cartilage-cells are developed on that surface, and become ossified in successive layers, their nuclei remaining to form the lacunae, the uniform dispersion of which through bone is thus explained. The cause of the lamination of bone, parallel to its vascular surface, is also thus illustrated. The first appearance of pores is in the form of irregularities in the margin of the lacunae. These increase with the consolidation of the tissue, and are converted into branching tubules which communicate with those adjacent. These pores must consequently be formed in the ossified substance of the cartilage-cells. In our account of the lacunae of perfect bone it was mentioned, that, for the most part, those of contiguous Haversian systems do not communicate across the narrow interval that separates the Haversian rods ; this interval having, in fact, no pores. It results from what has just been said of the mode of deposition of new layers, that the primary osseous net- work, formed in the intercellular substance of the temporary carti- C lage, must come to constitute the substance intervening between the Haversian rods, the non-porosity of which is thus satisfactorily ... .