PACINIAN BODIES. 401 CHAP. XIII.] nerves to terminate on the lamellae in the same looplike manner as in striped muscle.* These lamellae are separated by fluid, and only adhere through the medium of the wall of the prism. If this be the true history of this structure, it appears to establish some general analogy between the electrical organs and the corpuscles; hut how far this can lie shewn to hold in essential characters, especially in the mode of termination of the nerves, and their arrangement with regard to the membranes and fluid, is still a matter of doubt. Meanwhile we deem it most prudent to forbear from speculating concerning the ofliee of the Pacinian corpuscles. Having thus far completed the physiological anatomy and phy- siology of nerves in general and nervous centres, we proceed next to the consideration of particular nerves ; and we shall state here the order in which we find it convenient to examine them. The Eneephalo-spiual nerves very conveniently arrange themselves into the three following classes :—I. The nerves of pure sense. II. The nerves of motion. III. The compound nerves. The first class includes some nerves, namely, the nerves of touch and taste, which are mixed up with those of the third class ; but, as the consideration of these senses could not without great inconvenience be separated from the others, we prefer to consider these particular fibres along with the other nerves of pure sense, namely, the olfac- tory, the optic, and the auditory. As the peculiar function of these nerves depends upon their peripheral organization, as well as on their central connexion, their physiological anatomy involves ne- cessarily that of the organs of sense. We shall commence with the most simple, namely, Touch and Taste, and afterwards proceed to Smell, Vision, and Hearing. The second class of nerves contains the third, fourth, sixth, portio dura of the seventh, and the ninth pairs of nerves accor- ding to Willis's arrangement, all of which arc motor in function. In the third class we place the fifth and eighth pairs of nerves, and the spinal nerves. Lastly, we shall examine the Sympathetic nerve. Comparative Anal., translated by Tulk.