r 184 LOCOMOTION. [chap. vii. and appears to be occasioned by those movements of the neighbour- ing fibres upon one another, with which the partial contractions must be attended in their incessant oscillations. The other phenomenon is one whose existence has been recently ascertained by MM. Becquerel and Breschet,* viz. that a muscle, during contraction, augments in temperature. They have found this increase to be usually more than 1° Fahr.; but sometimes, when the exertion lias been continued for five minutes, (as the biceps of the arm, in sawing a piece of wood,) it lias been double that amount. This developement of heat may be in a great measure attributable to, and even a necessary consequence of, the friction just alluded to. Thus it would appear, that in active contraction there is a dis- turbance of the state of equilibrium, or rest, by the application of a special stimulus to certain portions only of each fibre ; by which first these portions, then others in succession, are made to contract strongly, and to pull on the extremities of the fibre through the medium of the parts not so contracted. The contractions undulate along the fibre from the point stimulated, and there is always a con- siderable part of each fibre uncontracted. This will account for the remarkable fact, that detached fragments of the voluntary fibre will contract by two-thirds of their length ; though an entire muscle, in its natural situation, cannot shorten by more than one-third. This great capacity of contraction in the tissue would be without a pur- pose, if it were not that it only admits of momentary exertion, and therefore requires that in the organ successive parts should take up the act, and by so doing, render it, as a whole, continuous. In an active fibre the contracting parts are continually dragging on those in which the contractile force has just subsided, and which intervene between them and the extremities of the fibre. These are thereby instantly stretched, and come to serve the temporary purpose of a tendon; but one which resists extension more by its passive con- tractility than by its mere tenacity. It is these parts which in tetanic spasm suffer laceration ; which happens in consequence of the contraction excited by the vis nervosa being then too powerful to be resisted by the passive contractility. The preceding account of the minute changes occurring during contraction rests on data furnished by the striped form of muscular fibre; but there is nothing contained in it which seems at variance with the little that is positively known regarding the contractions of * Reeherches sur la Chaleur Animale. Arcliiv. du Museum, tom. i. p. 402. 3'