277 CHAP, x.] OPTIC THALAMUS AND CORPUS STRIATUM. that very little light passes through or between them. Hence they appear to l>e dark masses lying in the substance of the ganglion, and, from their opacity, it is very difficult to determine their exact relation to the elements of the vesicular matter. Many of the bun- dles, however, appear to us to attach themselves, at different parts ot the ganglion, as if around a large vesicle of which, with its nucleus, we have sometimes seen indications at one extremity of the dark mass of aggregated fibres. Other bundles of fibres appear to emerge from the corpus striatum, and to contribute to form the fibrous matter of the hemisphere. If this view of the structure of the corpus striatum be correct, it would appear, that, while a large proportion of the fibres which constitute the inferior layer of the crus penetrate that ganglion, many of them do not pass bevond it. They may be described as terminating in it,—or, more properly, if traced from above, as taking their origin or point of departure from it. Many of the fibres which seem to pass from the corpus striatum into the white matter of the hemisphere are doubtless similarly related to the former body, t. e., take their rise from the vesicular matter, or, to speak more exactly, pass between the vesicular matter of the hemi- sphere and that of the corpus striatum. It is niso highly probable that some fibres pass completely through the corpus striatum. Thus, three sets of fibres may be descried as existing in the corpus striatum; 1st, those which below enter into the formation of the crus, and above are connected with that ganglion ; 2ndly, those which are connected interiorly with the corpus striatum, and above with the cerebral convolutions; and lastly, those which pass from the white substance of the hemispheres through the corpus striatum to the crus cerebri. And of these three sets of fibres, the first serves to connect the corpora striata with the mesocephale and medulla oblongata ; the second to connect the cerebral convo- lutions with the corpora striata; and the third to connect the con- volutions with the mesocephale and medulla oblongata. It must be confessed, however, that the evidence upon which the existence of the third class of fibres rests is less satisfactory than that for the first and second, although most of those anatomists who are contented with coarse dissection seem to recognize only the third class. The fibres of the optic thalamus are doubtless, also, continuous with some of those which form the white matter of the hemi- spheres; and irom the intimate manner in which this body is em- braced by the corpus striatum, and the close connexion which